
On the 18 July 1817, Jane Austen died in Winchester, after a long, painful illness. Her brother James arranged for her to be buried in the cathedral. The inscription on her tomb reads:
In Memory of JANE AUSTEN, youngest daughter of the late Revd GEORGE AUSTEN, formerly Rector of Steventon in this County. She departed this Life on the 18th of July 1817, aged 41, after a long illness supported with the patience and the hopes of a Christian. The benevolence of her heart, the sweetness of her temper, and the extraordinary endowments of her mind obtained the regard of all who knew her and the warmest love of her intimate connections. Their grief is in proportion to their affection, they know their loss to be irreparable, but in their deepest affliction they are consoled by a firm though humble hope that her charity, devotion, faith and purity have rendered her soul acceptable in the sight of her REDEEMER.
Touching words – and perhaps it is unusual for a woman of Austen’s time to be complimented for the “endowments of her mind”. But viewed from the 21st century, there is a glaring omission. Why did James fail to mention that his sister was one of the greatest damn writers who has ever lived?
Yes, he had no way of knowing that she would be remembered hundreds of years later for helping invent the English novel and as one of the finest observers of the human heart and social customs. But why did he not think it was worth mentioning that Austen was an exquisite prose stylist? Surely he could have mentioned her way with zingers? Just look at them: “For what do we live, but to make sport for our neighbours and laugh at them in our turn?” Or this: “Nobody minds having what is too good for them.” Or: “It was a delightful visit;– perfect, in being much too short.”
I could happily spend this whole article rooting out Jane Austen quotes, but the chances are you’ve read them all. She is central to our culture – so much so, you might think it will be a challenge to find something new to discuss this month on the Reading group. What hasn’t already been said about Austen?
But I’m not worried. Like all great authors, Austen holds a mirror up to our times as much as to her own. She’s always relevant, but also very much of her time. Reading the famous opening lines of Pride and Prejudice, who today would still believe “it is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife”? Austen shows that, even in 1813, things were a little more complicated than that exquisite phrasing suggests, but it is fascinating to read of such a society from a completely different vantage point.
Speaking of the passing of time, I’m also curious to see how it feels to read Austen again. It’s more than 20 years since I read anything she wrote. Some time in the mid-90s I ground out my last A-level paragraph about dramatic irony in Emma, put away my pen with relief, started reading On the Road – and didn’t look back. I suspect there are plenty of other people in a similar situation, so it will be fascinating to engage with her again (especially free from the shadow of exams). I’m hoping to discover all sorts of new things in her books, and I might even catch a few jokes that were too subtle for me when I was 18.
In short, I’m looking forward to it. The only question is which book to read. I think the simplest and best way to decide will be to put all of her novels to a vote. They are (in order of publication):
Lady Susan was a short epistolary novel written while Austen was a teenager, but published in 1871. If it rouses your curiosity, I don’t see why we can’t count it in. Otherwise, there are six classics to choose from. Nominate your favourite in the comments below and I’ll return here in a few days time to tot up the results.
Until then, one more classic quote from Austen, which I include without comment: “The person, be it gentleman or lady, who has not pleasure in a good novel must be intolerably stupid.”
Ed Sheeran has quit Twitter, citing overwhelming abuse from trolls.
The singer, whose album ÷ is the year’s biggest seller worldwide with 8m copies sold in three months, told the Sun: “I’ve actually come off Twitter completely. I can’t read it. I go on it and there’s nothing but people saying mean things.”
He added: “One comment ruins your day. The headfuck for me has been trying to work out why people dislike me so much.”
He said that Lady Gaga fans were some of those responsible for the abuse. “[They] read an interview in which they assumed I was talking about her and they all fucking hate. And it wasn’t anything to do with that at all.”
He’s the latest celebrity to leave the social media platform thanks to abuse. Normani Kordei of US girl group Fifth Harmony announced in 2016: “I’ve been racially cyberbullied with tweets and pictures so horrific and racially charged that I can’t subject myself any longer to the hate.” However, she has since returned to the service.
Actor Leslie Jones was also racially abused, after the release of the all-female Ghostbusters movie, while Lily Allen took a break from Twitter earlier this year, saying: “My timeline is full of the most disgusting, sexist, misogynistic, racist shit.”
Lena Dunham said Twitter “wasn’t a safe space for me”, while comedian John Bishop wrote: “I can take anything but when scumbags have a forum to abuse people I love I think it’s time to move away.” TV presenter Rylan Clark-Neal, meanwhile, said that homophobic abuse against him on Twitter was “ridiculous” and “getting out of control”.
The social media platform has been introducing measures to try to prevent abuse, including a “safe search” function that keeps abusive tweets out of search results.
Video games have changed immeasurably since the days of tape loading and cover-mounted floppy discs. Today, we get lifelike 3D virtual worlds where the player can seamlessly connect with companions and opponents from every corner of the globe. An online triple-A title will now offer literally hundreds of hours of fun spread across years of play. Yet, inflation aside, the price we pay at the till remains the same now as it was 25 years ago.
To make this possible, a lot of things have changed about the way the games industry works – but those changes haven’t always been well received. When problems arise, frustrated consumers will often blame “money-grubbing” publishers or “lazy” developers. But is that fair? We asked the industry to explain five of the most controversial aspects of modern games buying – and, crucially, why they happen.
Games today are ruled by two main types of payment system. Premium, in which you pay upfront for the product, and free-to-play, where the base game is free but can be expanded upon with microtransactions. Publishers often face flack, however, when a premium game then goes on to also offer microtransactions – even if they only give access to vanity items like new skins or costumes.
So why do so many full price games now offer mini-payments? The obvious answer is that it works: downloadable content (DLC) is hugely popular. Publisher Take-2, for instance, recently reported that 57% of its total digital sales are accounted for via such recurring revenue, most from Grand Theft Auto Online. Activision Blizzard made over $3.6bn from optional DLC included in titles such as Call of Duty and Overwatch.
THQ Nordic’s marketing director Philipp Brock adds that such practices have also allowed smaller games to flourish. “Look at Rocket League,” he says. “You can see how the DLC enables the developers to keep doing the thing they want to do.” Speaking off the record, one executive at a leading global games publisher pointed out a logical maxim: only the popular payment systems survive.
In short: DLC wouldn’t exist if consumers didn’t spend their money on it. The modern games business has a huge range of customers who all want slightly different things. Some are willing to pay more for more content, so providing they are getting value for money and aren’t gaining an advantage over other players, the system works. It all might sound horribly cynical, but the argument coming from the industry is that without maximising profit for reinvestment there simply wouldn’t be new games.
A season pass is an additional purchase on top of a game’s upfront price that grants access to future content that will be added to a game, be that new multiplayer maps or story levels. If handled correctly, season pass content can be entirely positive. The Witcher 3, for example, offered two wonderful expansions that were developed after the game was released.
What can be less palatable, however, is when season pass content is announced at the same time as the game itself. How is a consumer to differentiate between genuinely new content and content that has instead been cut from the main game in the hope that it can be sold separately? This demands a level of trust from the buyer.
“We plan DLC in advance and start working on it once the main game content is finished, or have other studios working on it in parallel to the lead studio’s development of the main game,” says Anne Blondel, VP of live operations at Ubisoft. “This means we can start to deliver even more content not too long after the release. One reason why we sometimes announce that new content in advance is because we want players to know they’ll have the choice to continue playing in the game world long after the game’s release.”
In short: Offering season passes is a way to assure players that a title will be supported throughout the year, and to ensure there is demand – and therefore funding – for the development of supplementary content like maps and missions. Triple A game development such as movie and music production is about mitigating financial risk. Season passes lock in gamers and keep them playing – and paying.
It’s happened to all of us: you put a new game disc into your PS4 or Xbox One – or download it from the digital store – and a message appears on screen that you need to download an extra update file before you can even start. Sometimes these patches can be almost the size of the original game.
It’s a problem that THQ Nordic, which has internal rules about limiting patch sizes, says it takes very seriously. “Not everybody lives in a metropolitan area, especially in the US where physical sales are still going strong,” he says. “Imagine you have a 30GB game that you are buying and the day one patch is 40GB. That’s really bad PR.”
However Jason Kingsley, the head of UK developer Rebellion, points out that the protracted submission process for console games means day one patches are often inescapable. “We submit the game to the hardware manufacturers probably four months before the actual street date,” he says. “A lot of consumers don’t realise the game they’re playing at Christmas was probably finished in the summer. You’ve got a team of experts sitting around waiting for release. What do you do with them? The simple answer is they keep working on that project because as we test it and as we play it more we might find obscure bugs or little bits that need to be fixed.”
Sometimes a hefty patch may be required because the console infrastructure itself is changing or updating. Halo developer 343 Industries claimed that the 20GB day one patch for Halo: Master Chief collection was due to the “improving and maturing” nature of the Xbox One platform which required significant changes to the multiplayer component.
In short: games are submitted to hardware manufacturers months before release and often bugs, issues and additional content can crop up as development teams continue testing and playing.
Most games publishers encourage players to pre-order forthcoming titles before they are released, often incentivising them by offering extra content, such as custom costumes, items or extra missions. This often provokes the question, why should I pay for a game before I know if it will be any good? Why do people who pre-order get extra content that I don’t? Pre-orders, especially when they come in different flavours depending on the retailer, annoy a lot of consumers. But according to the industry, in the highly competitive video game market, they remain an absolutely vital tool.
“Publishers benefit from pre-orders in a variety of ways,” says Joost van Dreunen, CEO of industry analyst Superdata. “It saves a lot of guesswork when it comes to the physical distribution of titles to retailers and reduces the number of unsold boxes that are sent back. Perhaps most critically, since pre-orders occur during the final stages of development and right as the marketing effort ramps up, it allows a publisher to make a more informed decision to either slow down or speed up in the midst of the most expensive part of a game’s development cycle.”
Curve Digital Publishing Director Simon Byron points out that, like season passes, not all pre-orders are equal. “There are good pre-orders and there are bad pre-orders,” he says. “I think asking people to pay for a game when there’s been no critical consensus about it, in exchange for a discount, is really bad. Personally I prefer a launch discount. That is the most pro-consumer policy.”
Ubisoft in particular has come in for critcism about its tendency to offer a large variety of different pre-orders for each game, with certain content sometimes tied to specific retailers. But Blondel is keen to justify the practise. “Rewarding people who are early and loyal customers isn’t a new concept or one that’s exclusive to the game industry,” she argues. “That said, we’ve heard the concern and are doing our best to simplify the number of pre-order incentives we offer and to ensure that players have other ways to get the included content.”
In short: Pre-orders allow publishers to assess consumer interest in a title, allowing them to make decisions about how many boxes to manufacturer, and whether or not the release date should be changed. As with season passes, it’s as much about assessing demand and mitigating risks as it is about generating income.
There are few things as frustrating as finally booting up a new game only to find that you can’t play it online. A buyer’s annoyance that their £50 purchase isn’t working is entirely understandable. However, what many consumers don’t see is the sheer complexity of ensuring that the global server infrastructure is able to cope with day one demand.
“Let’s say you’ve got a 16-player game,” says Kingsley. “Getting 16 testers together is something you can do. But getting 1,600 testers together to play the game simultaneously is not easy or, quite frankly, commercially viable”.
“You might have 200 people working on a game for roughly two years and then you might have 50 people playing the game for hundreds of hours in the testing process, but that pales into insignificance with the number of people who play at launch. You’re talking about going from thousands of staff hours to millions of consumer hours.”
Our off the record publisher source is somewhat more blunt. “Look at when concert tickets go on sale and a simple financial transaction can crash a website through sheer weight of numbers,” they explain. “Now imagine that same number [of people] trying to log into a game on day one with huge amounts of data flying around.
“As a developer, there is very little you can do when the servers creak or fall over as by that stage it’s too late. You’ve done your load testing, your Betas, you think you’re good to go, then bang, you have hundreds of thousands of angry gamers. You realistically need 24/7 monitoring for problems or security issues (DDoS attacks are common) and a full server team to look after the technical side of things 365 days a year. The servers have to be regularly updated, maintained and all games patches need to be rigorously tested by a QA team. This can really drain profitability.”
In short: Maintaining a global server network (which often includes server farms owned by third-party firms) is hugely complicated and expensive, and stress-testing the network’s ability to cope with player load – even using thousands of bots to simulate player activity – often only gives a partial picture. Without massive investment, it is difficult to prepare for hundreds of thousands of players hitting an online multiplayer service almost simultaneously.
Allow me to draw you a venn diagram. One side is labelled “People Who Care About The Leftovers”. The other is “People Who Prefer Not to Illegally Download Television Programmes”. You see the middle? You see that tiny, minuscule overlap? Look closely. Really lean in and squint. On that overlap is a picture of my face.
The overwhelming majority of you don’t give a stuff about The Leftovers. It’s a delightful, beguiling, thematically rich programme that’s perfectly written and exquisitely acted, and yet the second series was so overwhelmingly underwatched that Damon Lindelof literally had to go on a press tour to convince HBO to let him finish the story properly. In the annual Guardian Best Shows list of 2015, I named the second series of The Leftovers the year’s greatest programme, and it still didn’t even crack the top 20. This leads me to believe that no one at the Guardian watched the bloody thing.
And the rest of you? The scrap of fervent Leftovers fans who gave this show a shot and ended up adoring it as much as me? It’s already ancient history to you. Although the third and final series begins on Sky Atlantic this week, the finale aired on HBO a month ago. I’ve been waiting almost three months for the first episode. In an age of simulcasts and next-day streaming, this delay is a scandal. No wonder everyone went off and watched it online instead. Sky Atlantic have bodged the handling of this beyond recognition. Its treatment of The Leftovers is unforgivable. It might genuinely be the channel’s biggest ever mistake. (And, given that it once commissioned and aired an Ann Widdecombe-fronted gameshow called Cleverdicks, that’s really saying something.)
Look, I get that The Leftovers is a tough sell. It is a series that explicitly deals with grief, set in a world where two percent of the population has mysteriously vanished. The loss each character feels is agonising and institutional. Everyone knows someone who went missing. Some lost their entire families. People react by joining overtly evil religions where members chainsmoke and adhere to a menacing vow of silence. Others wear bulletproof vests and hire prostitutes to shoot them in the chest. In the very first episode, which ladled on the depression so gratuitously it’s a wonder anyone even finished it, a girl reacted to the departure by lying on a dirty mattress and weeping while a teenage boy masturbated next to her. The whole thing was ornately miserable. It was an intricate tableau of despair. It was television as death by quicksand.
Add to this the fact that viewers were still burned by Lindelof’s handling of the Lost finale, and sceptical of his insistence that the central question would never be answered, and you don’t exactly have a recipe for a feelgood blockbuster.
But the second series represents perhaps the greatest season-to-season improvement in all of TV history. It suddenly figured out how to wear its grief lightly. It took on a new, winkingly self-referential theme tune in Iris DeMent’s Let The Mystery Be. It had more momentum than the gloomy tone poem of before. Characters had a little more light to counterbalance all their terrible shade. It turned into a gorgeous love story of sorts, albeit a love story between two desperately broken people; one of whom had the inexplicable ability to transform into an interdimensional assassin.
The third series, from the sliver of stateside reviews I’ve allowed myself to skim, is supposed to be another leap forward. Its sadness is offset by moments of giddy weirdness and – at times – outright comedy. Better yet, all reports suggest that it sticks the landing. Its finale is apparently little short of a masterpiece, achieving more than enough to exorcise Lindelof’s lingering sense of failure – justified or otherwise – over Lost’s last episode. To say I’m excited is a gigantic understatement. For me, this is the television event of the year.
But what does it matter? If you didn’t like the sound of The Leftovers, this won’t convince you otherwise. If you’re a fan, you’ve already seen it. But if by some incredible miracle you find yourself in the same boat as me, please let me know. It’s lonely out here. Maybe we can let the mystery be together.
The Leftovers starts tonight (finally) at 10pm on Sky Atlantic.
When I woke up, I couldn’t remember what year it was and I didn’t know why a doctor was standing over me, speaking Spanish. When I quizzed him, he told me it was 5 March 1992 and that I was in Ecuador. I couldn’t remember anything that happened in 1992, least of all going to Ecuador.
Apparently, I had been in a bus crash; there had been a collision with a lorry. It was news to me. In the black hole of my mind I knew only one thing: that wherever I was, I had been there with my girlfriend Stella, and that she had died in this accident of which I had no memory. A moment later, the doctor confirmed what I already seemed to know; Stella had indeed died in the crash. But how could I have known that, when I couldn’t remember anything else? How did this information reach my subconscious?
The events surrounding the crash and its aftermath were fictionalised in my first novel, Random Acts of Heroic Love, but I always knew I had unfinished business. Although my memory slowly returned, I still don’t remember the accident itself.
When I began writing The Half Life of Joshua Jones – a novel about a man who becomes obsessed with the life of a stranger in a coma – I had no story in mind, only an itch to scratch. I wanted to explore the gossamer interface between the conscious and subconscious worlds and how one bleeds into the other. My starting point was the coma, so I interviewed and read the testimonies of those who had survived one.
Of all the people I met, it was the story of Neil that made the greatest impact. More than 20 years ago, Neil had spent seven weeks in a coma. Like many I spoke to, he was adamant that his experience was not ephemeral, like a dream. He said he entered an alternate reality that felt as real and concrete as the everyday world. In his coma, Neil spent several months in Africa – a continent he had never visited before – doing meaningful charity work. He lived with two women in a house built on stilts over a lake, where they would have sex and go diving together. Meanwhile, in the real world, his mother was told that he was brain dead. She was advised to turn off the life support. Thank goodness, she refused. One day, in the midst of this fabulous journey, Neil woke up in a hospital, bedbound, unable to speak and in terrible pain. His body had wasted away to six stone. At first, he thought he was having a nightmare. Then he was told the truth, that he had been in a coma, but he still believed his African odyssey was real and that he must have fallen in to the coma while he was there.
His sense of reality was further challenged a week or so later: in his coma, his father had been shot in the hand, but when the latter came to visit there was no sign of a wound. How had it healed so quickly? Then fear set in. Where exactly was the boundary between what was real and what was imagined? Which was the dream and which was the reality? At times, the pain was so great that he longed to go back to the coma, back to Africa. But as he healed, the fear subsided and he felt great joy in being alive. Now he credits his coma for having changed his life for the better.
And many people I spoke to had come to the same conclusion. It was as if they had dived deep in to their souls and returned with some profound insight.
The Half Life of Joshua Jones is my flirtation with the subconscious. What really happens when we are unconscious, either asleep or in a coma? Perhaps the mind grows tired of the plodding limitations of the body and yearns to wander in to the undergrowth where anything is possible. In the morning, the mind returns to the body like a loyal dog. Sometimes the dog gets lost, only to return weeks later with a magnificent bone. And sometimes the dog never returns.
Angela was floating just under the surface of the real world, unable to broach the impenetrable membrane between consciousness and subconsciousness. What if she was trying to communicate with me in the same way I was trying to communicate with her? Would we ever understand each other? We couldn’t even hear each other. She spoke a language beyond logic. It was the language of sleep. She occupied a mosaic world built from broken pieces of memory and reality randomly reconfigured to constitute a dream from which she could not escape.
Was the dream she now found herself in more beautiful than the life she had tried to flee? Perhaps she was running free, like a gazelle on green savannah. Is it a mistake to assume, in a rather imperialistic way, that the conscious world is superior to the subconscious? The ultimate goal of the medical profession is to bring the coma patient back to our world, but what if we were to head in the other direction and try to enter the world of the coma? I wondered if I could establish, through the tiny twitches of her finger, what she was dreaming about.
“Moving and insightful … a riveting page-turner full of unexpected twists. Life, love and death are at the heart of this novel which is told by a gifted storyteller.” – Sarah Gavron, director of Suffragette
The Half Life of Joshua Jones is published by Unbound at £7.99 and is available from the Guardian bookshop for £6.79.
The flashy multiculturalism of music festivals presents a seemingly harmonious alternative to the racial tensions that bristle in society at large. Now at blockbuster events like Coachella, Kendrick Lamar is able to weave tales of the black experience to massive audiences, and a new generation of stars with intersectional identities can capture the imagination of the crowd. But no cultural phenomenon can be divorced from the tectonic social processes underlying it.
In the heady optimism of the early Obama years – which coincided with the stateside festival industry’s sixfold attendance boom – the phrase “post-racial” began to creep into the lexicon, and music festivals began promoting themselves as spaces where lofty ideals could be realized. On grassy fields and under big tops, differences of race, gender and sexual orientation are supposedly set aside in pursuit of a diverse, multicultural harmony-via-hedonism. In terms of race, this has proven to be a half-truth. On stage, America’s deep pedigree of black influence rings loud and clear, but look out over the crowd at most major music festivals, and more often than not you’ll see a sea of white faces.
The makeup of Americans aged 18-35, the prime festival demographic, is 58% white, 13% black, 5% asian, 20% hispanic, as of the 2010 census. Numbers drawn from Nielsen suggest that white people comprise 69.2% of the festival-going public, which in itself is not an overwhelming over-representation, but direct statistics from single festivals paint a different picture. Burning Man, not a music festival per se, but still a preeminent entity in festival culture, released figures in 2014 listing their attendees as 87% white. In a 2013 poll on the festival’s website, Coachella-goers were only 4.9% black.
Music publicist Michelle Kambasha detailed her experiences as a black woman attending predominantly white festivals in the UK. “When I’m asked: ‘Why are you at this [insert any indie band] show?’ and I explain that it’s because I do their press, I know what they’re really asking is: “Why don’t you do press for someone black, because you’re black?’,” she wrote in 2016. “It is as if my race inherently makes me underqualified.” In her piece she mentioned Britt Julious, the music writer and Guardian contributor who created Blackfork – an annual headcount of black people she sees at Pitchfork festival in her hometown of Chicago. After attending this year’s Coachella festival, Teen Vogue journalist Jessica Andrews wrote about what she dubbed “Coachellappropriation” ie white attendees borrowing style from other groups (bindis, dashikis and braiding their hair). “Black hairstyles are not ‘lewks to try’ when you want to feel ‘edgy’, only to discard them once you’re bored and ready to retreat back to your privileged bubble,” she wrote.
On stage, music festival line ups are far more diverse than they were even a decade ago. But that shift has brought with it new problems. The past few years in particular has seen most mainstream festivals swing their booking heavily to include hip-hop and R&B. The Coachella lineup in 2007 gave no hip-hop acts top billing – although further down the order acts such as Ghostface Killah and Pharoah Monche could be found. A decade later, five of 20 bill-toppers were hip-hop, and if Beyonce had not dropped out, two of the three headlining acts would have been black. The trend continues at electronic music festivals such as HARD Summer. In 2012, its urban elements were limited to Albanian American chef turned rapper Action Bronson, Canadian electronica producer Lunice and funk veteran Bootsy Collins – out of more than 50 acts. This year’s edition features Snoop Dogg, Rae Sremmurd and Migos as headliners topping a bill that’s hip-hop heavy.
But the inclusion of certain manifestations of hip-hop at festivals where audiences are majority white doesn’t sit well with everyone. “It’s awful for me,” says Matthew Morgan, founder of the globetrotting Afropunk festival. “Participating in an audience, particularly with rap lyrics, when you have a majority white crowd using the n-word, it’s a very uncomfortable environment.” This awkward appropriation of other cultures rankles many artists who perform at the very same festivals. Underground house and techno DJ Seth Troxler suggests the fault is shared between the artists, the audience and the festivals themselves. “The imagery and music that a lot of these rappers are putting out focuses on the negative aspects of ethnicity,” he says. “It attracts a culturally ignorant crowd.”
If you pulled back the curtain of the music industry, people would be shocked
To Morgan, it’s a case of opportunism and greed. “These promoters predominantly don’t care, because they’re selling tickets,” he says. For Troxler it’s business as usual for an industry that’s rarely been interested in ethics. “I don’t think, at any point, most people in the music industry are concerned about the welfare of the music they choose to promote or the implications of their decisions,” he says. “You have this weird cultural system in place where for a black person to be successful, it’s like indentured servitude.”
“In music, just like sports, black people are allowed to participate on the front-end, but we have no say in the back-end,” adds Morgan. “If you pulled back the curtain of the music industry, people would be shocked. When booking Afropunk, I work with hundreds of agents, and only two of them are black.”
Therein lies the reason for the glaring dissonance between the intent and effect of the festival industry’s push for diversity: those in executive positions, from the record label to the management to the promoters to the corporate sponsors, are usually caucasian.
A positive trend counteracting this is niche festivals that are driven by cultural production more than profit. Festivals like Tyler the Creator’s Camp Flog Gnaw in Los Angeles and Nyansapo in Paris approach Afro-centric intersectionality in a similarly progressive fashion, because they’re made with input from black and minority individuals behind the scenes as well as on stage and in the audience.
Afropunk has editions in New York, London, Paris, Atlanta, and Johannesburg, and features a predominantly black lineup that intersects hip-hop, punk, blues, soul, pop, queer and dance culture. “Putting a black audience in front of black artists is cathartic,” says Morgan. “It’s absolutely imperative that we participate in feeling good about serving a community with music that is created from our community.”


Samira Wiley is modernity defined. While Elisabeth Moss, her co-star in The Handmaid’s Tale, rose to prominence in prestige television dramas such as Mad Men and The West Wing, Wiley has built a reputation almost entirely in shows made by streaming sites.
“It wasn’t a conscious decision,” says the 30-year-old over the phone, “the shows that are being written on streaming sites have surpassed anything seen on television traditionally.” After four seasons playing Poussey in Netflix’s Orange Is the New Black, she now plays Moira, an activist and lesbian – in a world in which homosexuality is punishable by torture and death – in The Handmaid’s Tale, made by US streaming site Hulu.
Both shows were game-changers. Orange Is the New Black broke new ground for myriad reasons, dealing with drug abuse, mental illness, and the experiences of bisexual, lesbian, queer and transgender women in an infinitely more complex and sophisticated way than had been seen in mainstream entertainment before. It also featured a large cast of relatively unknown actors, most of whom did not conform to the Hollywood stereotype.
“In the past, on television, the ‘ideal woman’ was thin, white and always looked perfect, the farthest thing from any woman on Orange,” says Wiley. “Now we know that audiences don’t want to see some ‘ideal woman’, they want to see women who look like themselves, or look like their friends, their aunts, their mothers, their children.” The Handmaid’s Tale, meanwhile, would likely have always found an audience, thanks to Margaret Atwood’s seminal novel on which it is based. But, given the political context in which it has aired, the dystopian programme has thrust itself into popular discourse in a way that few series have managed in recent memory. “For something to resonate in this way is just overwhelming,” Wiley agrees. “And to have it happen twice in row … that’s just unheard-of.”
Wiley grew up in Washington DC, studied drama at the prestigious Juilliard School in New York, and spent the first few years post-college working in theatre in the city (she played Maria in Love’s Labour’s Lost for the city’s Public Theater company). Her career was never something carefully planned or strategised, she says, recalling an early meeting with her agent. “I remember going to his office and frantically telling him: ‘I just want you to know that I can do anything. I will do anything,’” she laughs. “Now, I think it is important to have some discernment.”
Her close friend from Juilliard, Danielle Brooks, had already been cast as fellow inmate Taystee in OITNB when Wiley auditioned for the show’s debut season. “Orange gave me my life,” she says, emphatically. “Not just in terms of my career, but it’s also where I met my wife.” When she married Lauren Morrelli, a writer on the show, earlier this year, her parents officiated (they are both pastors).
The show also dealt Wiley an unprecedented level of recognition overnight. When it launched in 2013, it was one of the first Netflix Originals. All 13 episodes were released at once, enabling audiences across the globe to binge the entire first season and connect with Poussey. “I didn’t know how to handle the success at first,” she admits. “I was scared. I had people following me home. I spent a few days not leaving the house because I couldn’t deal with it. It was a huge shock.”
Wiley’s warm, funny, empathetic portrayal of her character soon became a fan favourite. “Poussey’s the definition of a lover not a fighter, and that is what people connect to,” says Wiley. “She’s a genuinely good person and she’s looking for love in prison, in such a pure way. When we look at her, we see potential, we see hope. We feel like, when she gets out, she is going to immerse herself back in society and have some success.” Consequently, the dramatic climax of the show’s fourth season – (spoiler alert!) Poussey’s death at the hands of a prison officer exerting undue force during a peaceful protest – was one of the most shocking and pivotal plotlines thus far.
“Everyone in the prison is affected by it,” says Wiley. Indeed, season five is all about the turbulent three-day aftermath of her death. Even though Poussey’s final storyline was inspired by the recent deaths of black men – including Eric Garner and Michael Brown – at the hands of US law-enforcement officers, Wiley says that at the denouement of the episode, race “suddenly goes away”. “The other prisoners finally see Poussey as a person. Not as a member of the ghetto dorm or the black girl in that clique that they don’t talk to,” she says. “They think: ‘Oh my God, if this happened to her, then this could happen to me, too.’”
For the actors playing the scene – Wiley motionless on the floor, Brooks sobbing beside the body of her best friend – it was no less highly charged. “Danielle and I were wiping each other’s tears,” she told The Hollywood Reporter.
Her metaphorical prison in The Handmaid’s Tale is no less bleak, brutal or dehumanising: the fictitious Republic of Gilead, formerly the United States, where environmental factors have reduced the global birthrate to almost zero. The country is under military rule and fertile women have been rounded up, forced to become handmaids for the ruling elite and their barren wives. Homosexuals meanwhile are branded “gender traitors”. Her character, Moira, is, she says, “So many minorities, and she is all of the minorities that I am: she is a black, gay, woman. And the experience of walking through the world being a black, gay woman is such a specific experience. Sometimes, you can’t even talk about all of the things you go through, with that as your reality.”
In the original text by Atwood, Moira’s colour is never divulged, but the Republic of Gilead is one of white supremacy: Jewish people were given the choice of converting or leaving for Israel, and ethnic minorities have been removed and “resettled”. Bruce Miller, who adapted the story for television, tweaked that detail. “If the TV show itself is an all-white world, then you are making a racist TV show,” he reasons. “It was more interesting to me to have a world where fertility trumps everything, including race.” Moira’s colour does not prevent her from being used a sexual slave by the Commanders of the Faith, albeit in a somewhat different way to Moss’s character, Offred.
Where Poussey was a lover, Moira is most definitely a fighter. “Moira has such strength, she is such a spitball of fire, and Offred (Elisabeth Moss) is boosted just by the idea of her,” says Wiley. “She has lines like: ‘Moira wouldn’t take this shit,’ and, ‘Moira wouldn’t be like this.’ When Offred says: ‘I intend to survive,’ I think she gets that Moira is always going to survive.”
Wiley adds that she “really identified” with that. “Growing up,” she reflects, “I have been that person who pushes the envelope and is doing things that other people are not as ready to. I even think about my journey as being an out member of the LGBT community. I felt very connected to Moira in that way.”
When the show went into production in the summer of 2016, no one could have predicted that by the time it was on telly, the US would be be under an administration where the rights of women, immigrants and the LGBT community would be suddenly and dramatically, under threat.
“We started filming before the election,” notes Wiley, “and after it had happened, we realised how much more prescient it all was. I suddenly thought: ‘We’re doing something very important here, we’re doing something that needs to be done.’ “At the end of the day,” she continues, “it is just television. But if we treat television in the right way, if we treat it as art, it can elicit real conversations and real change. I have seen it happen with Orange, and now I see it happening with The Handmaid’s Tale.”
A second season of the show has already been commissioned, and since the first season ends faithful to the book, no one knows where the new material will go. But fans of the original text should take comfort that Atwood, a creative consultant on the show, will remain closely involved with its direction. Wiley admits that she was so nervous about meeting the esteemed 77-year-old author at their first team dinner that she switched places with Moss, to avoid having to speak to her. Now, however, the pair are firm friends. “If you go to my Instagram,” she says, “Margaret Atwood likes all of my pictures. She usually comments on them. It’s not like she writes in Atwood prose; they’re usually just emojis.”
She still sounds somewhat disbelieving: “I put up a picture of me kissing my wife, and she just responded with a tongue emoji.”
The Handmaid’s Tale continues on 9 July, 9pm, Channel 4
Twenty-two years after its release, Alanis Morissette’s Jagged Little Pill remains one of the defining albums of the 1990s. Reports now suggest that a musical inspired by the record is finally on its way to Broadway. The “book” (story bit) is being put together by Diablo “Juno” Cody but it seems unlikely that an Oscar-winning screenwriter can bring Jagged Little Pill to theatrical life with the tact, passion and sensitivity it really deserves. So we thought we would give it a go.
Our musical is called A Love Affair Never is Simple, which is, you’ll be pleased to note, a little bit mnemonic.
We open on the musical’s protagonist, Mary Jane. Offering the audience its first glimpse of the Jagged Little Pill songbook, Mary Jane sings a reworked version of All I Really Want. She breaks the fourth wall when she sings to the audience (“Enough about me, let’s talk about you for a minute … Enough about you, let’s talk about life for a while”) before using the song to introduce the musical’s main storyline: “What I wouldn’t give to find a soulmate, someone else to catch this drift.” Jagged Little Pill touched on various complex and intense themes but for the sake of flogging tickets on Broadway our story is just about a lonely, cash-strapped person looking for love. During All I Really Want, the line “I’m like Estella, I like to reel it in and then spit it out” is changed so as to no longer reference Great Expectations. “I like Estrella, I like to drink it and not spit it out” has been factored in as part of a complex endorsement deal with a beer brand.
The doorbell rings! It’s Mary Jane’s best mate Chardonnay who tries to cheer her friend up by belting out a stream of life tips, wake-up calls and trite, homespun wisdom to the tune of You Learn. Sadly, as Chardonnay draws breath in anticipation of the song’s big vocal crescendo, she swallows a black fly, chokes and – while Mary Jane continues to wait for an already-late ambulance that’s now stuck in a traffic jam – dies.
The ambulance eventually arrives and with it comes a handsome man; not the doctor, but the driver, called Hans. Naturally, because this is a musical and we really need to move things along quickly, Mary Jane falls head over feet in love. The pair embark on a whirlwind romance and it even looks like Mary Jane’s money woes will be over when Hans wins the lottery, but within 24 hours he is dead; attacked by an intruder while cooking, his attempts to defend himself with kitchen implements are impeded when he is only able to lay his hands on spoons.
Sadly for Mary Jane the drama is not over yet. As Hans’s coffin is lowered into the ground and Mary Jane says goodbye to the man of her dreams she meets … his beautiful wife. (The wife happens to be Catholic for reasons pertaining to still-to-be-crowbarred-in song references.) Mary Jane goes berserk, jumping on to the coffin and thundering on the lid while screaming a furious version of You Oughta Know. As she sings it right through, you know she’s in pain. In search of closure – and as a reminder of the mess he left when he went away – Mary Jane chooses to wear a picture of Hans around her neck. But that closure doesn’t come easy due to a late arrival at the funeral. It’s Hans’s identical twin brother. He’s also called Hans. Is this Mary Jane’s second chance at love?
Yes it is. For the musical’s euphoric final scene we find ourselves at the wedding of Mary Jane and the second Hans, where they’re joined by Hans 1’s widow (she’s forgiven Mary Jane; you know how those Catholic girls can be) plus Chardonnay’s ghost, who booked a wedding singer to sing a song about rain on this wedding day, only to discover that a meteorological glitch has confounded forecasts resulting in bright sunshine, thus rendering the singer’s choice of song ironic, as well as Ironic, although only ironic in the same way that the ironies in Ironic are ironically not ironic. Mary Jane and her new husband celebrate, meaning that while Mary Jane has still got one Hans in her locket, the other one is giving her a high five.
In September 1943, when the readers of the leftwing Sunday newspaper Reynolds News badly needed cheering up – with a long, cold, dark winter ahead and years of war and rationing to come – the paper lost its star cartoonist, Carl Giles. The shock was greater because the lifelong socialist had decamped to the Tory peer Lord Beaverbrook’s Express.
More than 100 of the cartoons that had kept the Reynolds News readers laughing, including many of heroic Russians such as an amiable Joseph Stalin propping up a bar, or a doughty little peasant woman bringing in a clump of roped-up captured German soldiers – have been collected for the first time in Giles’s War, edited by Tim Benson, an expert on the history of the British political cartoon.
He has also discovered that Giles’s repeated insistence that he had been headhunted by the Express was a lie: it was the cartoonist who had touted his skills around Fleet Street.
“He obviously felt guilty about it, particularly leaving the paper which had given him his break as a national cartoonist for a paper like the Express,” Benson said. “He referred to it himself as ‘a Judas act’ – but he repeated the claim that he had eventually been unable to resist the offers from the Express, and he got colleagues to back up that version of events. But the truth was all there in his archive. It’s amazing that he kept the correspondence.”
Giles, who described himself as “a Bentley-driving socialist” even wrote that “a multiplying of salaries did not interest me greatly”, but multiply them he did. He started at the Express at just under £1,000 a year, almost four times his Reynolds salary, and within a year that would be multiplied fourfold again, to £3,900.
Much of the story was missing from his official biography by Peter Tory, commissioned for the Express. The two men loathed one another and Tory, who died in 2012, described it as his “worst and most boring assignment”. For obvious reasons he left out another of Giles’s job perks. The cartoonist was very happily married to his first cousin Joan Clarke, but also had a mistress – and, according to Benson’s research, it was the Express that paid for the room they regularly took at the Savoy.
Giles would work for the Sunday and Daily Express for more than 45 years, regularly voted the nation’s favourite cartoonist. The annuals, still being published 22 years after his death, repeatedly topped the bestseller lists.
The wartime cartoons for both Reynolds and the Express are among his most political. Benson says he was a hopeless caricaturist, who got by with Hitler with a small moustache, Stalin with a huge moustache, and Mussolini as a blob, but his genius was as a draughtsman, and for portraying the war from the viewpoint of the little man or woman, often an authority-loathing but heroic bumbler, making tea while shells whistled past.
Within a year there was an extraordinary development in his career. Turned down for army service because a motorbike accident in his teens had left him blind in one eye, he managed to get sent to the front as a war correspondent cartoonist. He was present at the liberation of the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, and said the memories haunted him every day for the rest of his life – including a disconcerting encounter with the camp commander, Josef Kramer, who turned out to be a great admirer.
Benson, who runs a political cartoon gallery in west London, almost abandoned the project when he discovered that although Giles’s own archive was safe in the British cartoon archive at the University of Kent, transferred from the V&A, most of the war years Reynolds News was missing from the British Library newspaper archives. He then found a complete set in the JB Priestley archive at the University of Bradford, and the book, published this month by Random House, was on again. The archive revealed another Giles lie: his cartoons had never been cut down to make way for more editorial in the early war years, as he had claimed.
Some Giles stock jokes vanished when he moved to the Express, said Benson, as the cracks about bloated capitalists making a handsome profit out of the war were dropped.
Reynolds News readers were heartbroken to lose him, and the archive contains their letters and even a poem: “Laski and Driberg, Brailsford and Bullett/Excellent writers with differing styles/ We read them with profit, enjoyment and fervour/But tell me oh why have you robbed us of Giles?”
I was one of the first DJs in the UK to play house music, and I had this idea for a record made of a load of samples. At the time, the dance label Rhythm King had opened across the road from where I was living in London, so I was always hanging out there. They paired me up with Pascal Gabriel [co-writer of Bomb the Bass’s sample-heavy Beat Dis] and I played him all these bits off various records. We put them on to a cassette – taping 10 seconds of this record, three seconds of that one – and when Rhythm King heard it they said: “We’ll put you in the studio.”
It only took a few days. We thought it sounded amazing and I knew it would work in the clubs I played, especially the mixed and gay clubs, like Pyramid at Heaven and the Mud Club. But we thought it would be two years before we got any mainstream success – pop music just did not sound like that in 1988! Things were coming through, such as Bomb the Bass and Coldcut, but pop was Kylie and Jason. Rhythm King said it was too weird for radio, and asked for a seven-inch mix. We didn’t want to, so we did a deliberately awful mix, and they said: “OK, you win.”
It got to No 3 before Radio 1 had even played it. I remember walking to my house and this car coming down the road with music blaring out – inside were four girls, singing along to it and nodding their heads. When they saw me they started screaming. I don’t know if they recognised me or were just really enjoying the record.
The friends I put in the band – Linda Love on keyboards, Anna Goodman, Chilo Eribenne, Michelle Ndrika – helped make it look good on TV, but we didn’t go down well on Top of the Pops because the producers were wondering why we didn’t take it seriously. I didn’t take ecstasy at Top of the Pops that time, but I did for [second hit] Superfly Guy, and at one point I really didn’t know where I was, but I thought the lights were really pretty.
There’d been acid house tracks before, like Jack Your Body, but the UK public at large considered them to be novelty records. Once Theme from S-Express came along, it was like year zero. Shortly after, it was the second summer of love. We took the ethos of what had come before and kickstarted the UK house scene.
There was no sampling equipment in those days, so Mark just played me bits of records he thought would be good to sample, such as Rose Royce’s Is It Love You’re After?, and we put things in sequence on a cassette. People didn’t pay for samples back then, because nobody knew what the law was. We used something like 14 different ones, and received a letter from our American lawyer saying: “Bomb the Bass was bad enough, but S’Express is a disaster.” In the end, everything was settled but it took five years.
Back then, no one knew what the law about sampling was – it took five years to settle
Karen Finley, the American performance artist, was really good about us using her sample: “Drop that ghetto blaster!” We wrote to her and she said: “You can have it for free, it’s fine.” Her contribution was a very small line, so how much would she have made from that? Maybe five per cent? She was cool – I’d have probably done the same thing. It’s not all samples, though: I wrote the bassline, and the “S-express” vocal line is original. We used a can of hairspray for the hi-hats. I was bored with the average hi-hat sound and I thought about what we could do to make it different – so we sampled hairspray. The whole thing cost £500 to make.
It was a really liberating new way to make music, with a collage of audio. There were other people from Detroit already making acid house, but what we did was use Detroit house as a backbone, and patch samples on top. We were breaking a lot of new ground – it was a dance record, but it was also meant to be an experimental record. So when we realised it was being picked up by this new wave of music lovers, it was brilliant. I never knew the song would be huge – it was a very exciting moment when it went to No 1. I went to the Rhythm King office because they hadn’t paid me yet, and all the phones were ringing off the hook with dealers saying: “We need more copies, we’ve sold out.” I’ve heard it so many times that I don’t particularly want to hear it any more, but when you see people dancing to it you always feel moved to get up.
• Pascal Gabriel is recording a new album under the name Stubbleman. Details: melophobia.com.
When screenwriter and novelist Cory Taylor discovered that the cancer she’d been suffering from for a decade was no longer treatable, she began writing a book chronicling her thoughts on death: “You do reflect on your past when you’re dying… You have the urge to relate the story of your life for your children so that you can set the record straight.”
The resulting memoir is an unflinching exploration into the experience, culture and language of dying. At the outset, Taylor confesses that she has acquired a euthanasia drug, which she doesn’t intend to use but which gives her “a sense of control”. What follows is an excoriating and unsentimental analysis of the laws preventing assisted suicide. Taylor has no desire to die alone, but neither does she dare risk implicating her loved ones in an illegal act. The arguments she makes are clear and concise, but there is frustration here too: “It worries me, for instance, that my death certificate would read ‘suicide’ as the cause of death… The fact that cancer was actually my killer would be lost to posterity, as would the fact that I am not, by any fair measure, mad.”
Taylor argues eloquently that we need better communication around death. For those without the comfort of religion, “we have lost our common rituals and our common language for dying, and must either improvise, or fall back on traditions about which we feel deeply ambivalent”. She joins Exit International – an organisation promoting assisted suicide – in order “to speak about death as a fact of life” and writes candidly about the nature of regrets: “The problem with reverie is that you always assume you know how the unlived life turns out.” There is no attempt to shy away from the painful process of dying: “I will not miss dying. It is by far the hardest thing I have ever done, and I will be glad when it’s over.” Later in the memoir, she revisits her relationships with her family, describing her parents’ deaths with honesty and self-awareness.
“It takes courage to contemplate one’s own death,” Taylor writes near the start of her book, and there is courage in abundance here. She looked death in the eye and, in her final months, produced a work that will help the rest of us approach our own demise with greater understanding, integrity and insight.
• Dying: A Memoir by Cory Taylor is published by Canongate (£8.99). To order a copy for £7.64 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
The old Granada studios building has enormous significance in the story of Joy Division and New Order. In 1978, the former made their television debut here on Tony Wilson’s So It Goes programme after singer Ian Curtis berated the presenter in Manchester’s Rafters nightclub. “You bastard!” he began. “You put the Sex Pistols and Buzzcocks and Magazine and all those others on the telly, what about us?” Three years later, when the bandmates had regrouped as New Order after Curtis’s suicide, a Granada studio again broadcast their musical baby steps, this time on the short-lived Celebration.
On those occasions, both bands were at the start of something. Today’s New Order have it all behind them in the form of one of the most illustrious back catalogues in pop and a trademark sound that has become hugely influential, although they are still looking for ways to explore and reinvent it.
Hence this first of five Manchester international festival keynote shows, also called So It Goes – which have the rather arty, very Factory Records subtitle ∑(No,12k,Lg,17Mif) and pair the band with a 12-piece synthesiser orchestra from the Royal Northern College Of Music and a “responsive” stage set designed by visual artist Liam Gillick.
Beforehand, 61-year old singer Bernard Sumner promised a set list full of surprises (“Requests for Blue Monday will fall on deaf ears, and these days these ears are pretty deaf”) and proves as good as his word. The gig even begins without the band on stage. Instead, a conductor directs synthesiser players situated on two rows of boxes, behind huge Venetian blinds, as they perform a more symphonic rendition of 1985’s mournful, rarely played Elegia. As the band arrive and the Venetian blinds start opening and closing to the songs, teasing glimpses reveal dancing synth players.
Who’s Joe (from 2005’s so-so Waiting for the Sirens’ Call) probably wouldn’t feature on many fans’ fantasy setlists but has been thrillingly reimagined, with all sorts of new dramatic swoops. Shrieks of delight – and a few watery eyes – greet Disorder, the opening track from Joy Division’s Unknown Pleasures. It was last performed in 1980, but with new technology recreating and embellishing producer Martin Hannett’s synth squelches and studio wizardry in ways that were impossible live back then, it sounds jawdropping.
Some have interpreted this series of special shows as some sort of tit-for-tat with estranged bassist Peter Hook, whose Haçienda Classical project includes an orchestral reworking of Blue Monday. However, So It Goes is rather different, a continuation of the band’s ongoing marriage of pop with the left-field.
So the likes of Ultraviolence, another tune not played live for over 30 years, are pushed and twisted into new atmospheres; 1989’s Dream Attack starts off relatively faithfully, subtly augmented by orchestral brassy stabs, but eventually bursts into new colour with banks of synthesisers in harmony; Behind Closed Doors and All Day Long are both beautifully reworked, the former with a more eastern feel, as the synth strings bring new drama to songs with (sadly) timeless themes of domestic violence and child abuse respectively.
New Order’s catalogue has enough treasures to sustain a hit-free setlist, although there are dips into the singles discography with the now rarely played Shellshock and Subculture. Bizarre Love Triangle is a regular live favourite, but is beautifully segued into a spectral version of Vanishing Point, from 1989’s Technique. However, this show isn’t just about revisiting old glories. Plastic, from 2015’s return-to-form album, Music Complete, is given a turbocharged symphonic dance arrangement, with a subtle to Donna Summer’s I Feel Love.
A small technical hitch prompts Sumner to refer to the “old days” when the band’s notoriously malfunctioning home-made synths would cause chaos and unintended comedy on stage, but otherwise New Order are as on-point here as they have been as a live act. Keyboardist Gillian Gilbert looks emotional, drummer Stephen Morris is a percussive jack-in-the-box. Sumner is sober and respectfully sombre, gradually loosening up to respond to a bellow for some classic or other (“It’s not that kind of gig”) and affectionately teasing Mancunian conductor Joe Duddell (“He looks more like a bus conductor”) before a perfect Your Silent Face.
Bassist Tom Chapman plays Hook’s bassline so beautifully mournfully it’s hard not to remember his predecessor’s huge contribution or the many others – such as the late Wilson, Hannett, and manager Rob Gretton – who were key players in this story but were lost along the way. When Ian Curtis sang the Closer album’s magnificent highlight, Decades, at Joy Division’s final show at Birmingham University, those pesky synthesisers duly misbehaved. It’s taken 37 years and 18 musicians, but surely the spectrally serene electronic-symphonic rendition that closes this concert sounds exactly as he would have wanted.
Beyoncé’s last album – 2016’s Lemonade – provoked a range of reactions. The internet’s conspiracy theorists felt its tale of adultery and resolution to be an elaborate hoax, perpetrated to extend the Knowles-Carter family brand. Others reflected that pop is often a soap opera, and that the Beyoncé-Jay-Z double narrative produces arresting art that ignores rulebooks.
Expect more narrowed eyes and wagging tongues, then, for 4:44, Jay-Z’s 13th-odd album, the next riveting instalment. It is named after a track in which Beyoncé’s husband apologises unreservedly for his trespasses: womanising, not being emotionally available, all of it. His matter-of-fact flow slows to a mutter. “And if my children knew / I don’t know even what I would do.” Quite how Jay-Z is planning to keep daughter Blue Ivy off the internet should prove interesting.
It is a short, sharp album, produced entirely by Kanye West’s former mentor No ID – a rarity in hip-hop, and an interesting choice – with just three guests: Frank Ocean on the loping, sing-song Caught Their Eyes, reggae star Damian Marley on the pugilistic Bam and Gloria Carter, Jay-Z’s mum (who previously appeared on Lemonade) on Smile.
There’s so much business to attend to in the lyrics. Does Jay-Z out his own mother on Smile? “Momma had four kids but she’s a lesbian / Had to pretend so long, she’s a thespian.” Mrs Carter Sr weighs in with a poem at the end: “Love who you love.”
Album opener Kill Jay Z, meanwhile, ranges widely, touching briefly on Jay-Z’s former producer/mentee/collaborator Kanye West, whose breakdown last year included an onstage rant about Jay-Z having the power to have him killed. Jay-Z might still be sore about that. “You got hurt cos you did cool by ’Ye / You gave him $20m without blinking / He gave you 20 minutes onstage.”
Throughout, Jay-Z never sounds happier than when discussing actual business: his best revenge is his paper. In Jay-Z’s hands, the blistering social commentary of Lemonade becomes The Story of OJ, a rumination on blackness stuffed with investment advice. Property and art, in case you’re interested; advice that is soured by Jay-Z’s ill-advised generalising about the savviness of Jewish people.
Seasoned Jay-Z watchers might miss the rapper’s dense 90s flows, but most commercial hip-hop is now made up of easy couplets rather than internal patterns of assonance. Moonlight – loose, excellent – has good gags about current rap tropes (“skrrt!”) and analysis about contemporary hip-hop’s failings (“we stuck in La La Land”). Bitching about the decline of your field is, of course, an occupational hazard of being fortysomething; Marcy Me provides the obligatory reminiscences about Jay’s time as a drug dealer, rather than CEO of a business empire.
Family Feud, meanwhile, deals with age, billionaire status and the infamous “Becky” (“let me alone”) on a track whose gloating masks more insight about the importance of black-owned businesses. “We merrily, merrily eating off these streams…” laughs Jay-Z, whose streaming service hosts 4:44 exclusively for now. “Can I get an “amen” off the congregation?”
“Amen,” answers Beyoncé.
The end seems like a good place to start. Only that isn’t quite possible, because this doozy of a cliffhanger can’t play out until Christmas – and even then there are so many feelings to process I’m not sure any of us have the emotional energy. Yes, that was David Bradley as the First Doctor, replacing William Hartnell and the perhaps-best-forgotten portrayal by Richard Hurndall in 1983’s 20th-anniversary special The Five Doctors. In any other circumstances, recasting a deceased actor in the role would feel cheap. In these ones, Bradley was simply so good in the 50th-anniversary biopic An Adventure in Space and Time – both as a struggling Hartnell and his reimagining of Hartnell’s portrayal – that we must applaud it. I spent time with Bradley on set of that production, and his “Doctor face” is the most disarming thing in the world.
That’s all to come of course. More to the point is the final showdown between the Masters. I was overjoyed, on watching the confrontation between the three Timelords, that there was no soundtrack aside from the dialogue and some gentle birdsong. It was an example of less-is-more that I don’t think I’ve seen equalled in Doctor Who.
As for that showdown, how else was it going to end? Two Masters stabbing themselves in the back (and front) was the perfect solution to evil coming up against itself – writing both of them out, as much as is ever possible with Timelords, in a few short minutes. Did Missy’s eventual redemption ring true? Did the apparent and inherent “goodness” of this female version have bigger things to say about male and female states?
More of a problem is the fate of Our Pottsy. With so much to get through, even in the expanded space of an hour, her exit – if that’s what it was – felt sparse. As much as it stands as a positive piece of LGBT representation, her relationship with Puddle-Heather never felt major enough to be her final pay-off. No announcement has been made about the character’s future, and it has been reported only this week that Pearl Mackie has had meetings with incoming showrunner Chris Chibnall. But if this truly was the end for a character who was almost unanimously well received, that’s probably an accident of scheduling as much as anything else. Mackie will almost certainly be fine in her future career.
As, of course, will Matt Lucas, who never really needed a role in Doctor Who. But Nardole’s fate is left similarly vague – though we assume he’s destined to spend the rest of eternity as a foster carer to the children of the Mondasian spaceship, batting off the relentless flirting of gun-toting nanny Hazran.
The obvious point here is how can the First Doctor be back? Moffat would hardly let his Doctor go without something hugely epic. But will younger fans be able to follow whatever’s happening?
And, oh yes – where is Planet 14?
The Master and Missy clearly don’t know their best frenemy as well as they thought they did. As far as we know, the Doctor has never drowned or “felt the blade”. But he has expired from old age; been exiled to Earth by the Time Lords; poisoned by Metebelis crystals; fallen from Jodrell Bank observatory; poisoned by Spectrox toxaemia; banged his head against the Tardis console; been shot by the mafia; sacrificed himself to fight the Time War; expired again at the end of the Time War; absorbed the energy of the time vortex to save Billie Piper; absorbed a cubicle of radiation to save Bernard Cribbins; lived to die of old age and now – presumably – is facing a reluctant regeneration at the hands of the Cybermen’s death ray.
As we reach the end, there is a fair amount of housekeeping to get through in the wider Whoniverse …
• In an era of two Masters, we’re actually getting a third. Sir Derek Jacobi is confirmed to return as the pre-Simm Master (from 2007’s Utopia) in a new series of audio plays for Big Finish. The War Master series is available for pre-order from bigfinish.com.
• And along with him, David Tennant’s Tenth Doctor and Billie Piper’s Rose Tyler are set to reunite in a new series of audio-adventures, coming to Big Finish in November.
• In sadder news, BBC Worldwide have announced that the BBC Store, which has allowed viewers to stream and download from Auntie’s extensive archive (including Doctor Who and Torchwood) will close in November. Users have been offered a full refund.
• Similarly, the excellent Doctor Who Experience exhibit in Cardiff will shutter its doors in November. But it’ll be going out in a blaze of events. Details available at doctorwhoexperience.com.
We’ll be back at Christmas. But after that, Capaldi and Moffat will be gone for good …
Penelope Shuttle need not walk any faster – as this, her 14th collection, demonstrates. It is the gentle pace that captivates in her poems. And what a phenomenal poet she is (she has recently celebrated her 70th birthday). She has an unbossy, contemplative, unmistakable voice. She leads you quietly and helps you see things – London especially – afresh. There is nothing stale about the way she writes, although she is thinking about what it means to be older. She reflects on the city, its present moment and history – its bones. The past is there, almost palpable, and the dead, too – only just beyond touch and sight. She salutes London while resisting its metropolitan speed. Once part of a celebrated working duo with her late husband, the poet Peter Redgrove, his absence is strong enough to be a presence here. This is a volume that combines sorrow with an oddball wryness – an unusual mix. Shuttle implausibly casts herself as a relic, and in a comically sympathetic poem set in Waitrose, Balham, measures her time against the nonstop pace of the supermarket. There is scarcely time to complete a sentence:
“In Waitrose BalhamI’m sure I’m bustand brokepast my sell-by”
There is no need to labour what the supermarket’s checkout might signify. No need to labour anything in these poems.
Shuttle’s London is dominated by the Shard. There is more than one poem in praise of it. The most enjoyable is Shardology, complete with new verb – she suggests it “tease‑floats the eye”. I love the description of the Shard in bad weather as a “Cinderella of the rain” and the invention of a new sort of connoisseur, a “true Shardologist”, who loves the urban icon in all weathers.
I am not sure whether a Quiet Street exists in London (there is one in Bath), but this is a beautiful poem that carries itself lightly, in which she remembers Redgrove. Shuttle understands when not to overwork a thought. Her idea of all days contained in a single day is moving in its simplicity.
External cityscapes alternate with poems about the heart. Her heart is a character: changeable, attention-seeking, inescapable. Sometimes it becomes plural. She insists people “don’t know a thing/ about this heart/of ours/do they”. If there is melancholy here, it is of a bracing sort. And there are sprightly poems, too, such as the title poem describing a brisk walk through Oxford towards the Physic Garden and the “help-yourself” of nature (attractive phrase).
Sometimes images echo one another: she seems to be in charge of a metaphorical cloakroom. The dead wear “the same coat”, nature is in a “green coat”, London at night in a “cloak of dark”. There is a harmony to this intercommunication between poems. And yet this is a collection with a solitary feel. More than one poem is about sleeplessness, vigil, night thoughts. Sleeping the Sleep is a brilliant poem about an insomniac’s random occupations – watching al-Jazeera, thinking of old films and of how many Shuttles there are in the phone book. The poem mixes the mundane – making toast and tea – with an emotional ambush of the sort that can arrive in the small hours:
“But sometimeson a night like thisthere’s so much silence in the silencemy childhood flings its arms around me”
Shuttle is mistress of the minor key; many poems end with their heads slightly bowed. And yet she can also be relied upon, when necessary, to respond to Lewis Carroll’s question – and her title – and join the dance.
• Will You Walk a Little Faster by Penelope Shuttle is published by Bloodaxe (£9.95). To order a copy for £8.46 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
Dwell-timealong the quietest street in London,no one speaksof the death of the walnut tree.
Footfall timealong this quiet street,a woman waits in her kitchenfor her husband to go to the tennis clubso she can read Paradise Lostaloud to herself.
Put an island on my breakfast platethe day I turn wise,plus the deeds to a diamond minein the back of wherever,be kind to me like that.
Down-timealong this quiet London street,time to rememberhis eagle’s grip on happiness,trees in Richmond Park,the sky’s lovely struggle with light,a day full of too many days.
What are the skills needed to survive the end of the world? Knowing how to make a good martini? Folding napkins? Doing magic tricks? Or maybe it would be more useful to know how to skin a rabbit, make a gas mask, or fashion a blow dart? I failed miserably at the latter during this game but unfocused evening that comes courtesy of Nigel Barrett, Louise Mari and Abigail Conway as part of the Manchester international festival. It’s a night out in which Armageddon meets Blue Peter.
Entering an abandoned building, the audience is directed to an upper floor where we can make and consume martinis and are offered tips on how to engage with other guests. Not that it’s ever likely to happen given the blistering noise levels and setup. This is probably one of those theatrical adventures best enjoyed in a group and after several drinks. Post-gin it’s downstairs where we practise stitching skills with orange peel and needles in an exercise to condition the mind for survival, and watch people standing on gangways above our heads performing helicopter signal actions with dedicated vim.
Then we are free to wander, taking in the various demonstrations. I passed on the lava lamp workshop, but now know how to tie a knot and make pepper spray. Apparently, the addition of baby oil is crucial. Clearly when the apocalypse does arrive there will be ample stocks of wet wipes and sticky tape to hand. The roar of planes and explosions overhead becomes louder until we are hurried down into the basement where a band plays before the party at the end of the world begins for the survivors.
I suspect this might have been a different, harder-hitting and more layered and visually arresting show before it was overtaken by current news events including the attack at the Manchester Arena. It’s a big ask to make this particular show at this particular time without courting accusations of bad taste. But in the effort to avoid offending, the evening ends up veering towards the bland and purposeless. It’s a pleasant enough theatrical party game but one without the genuine fear-inducing urgency that should make us contemplate the ephemerality of our existence and remind how living and surviving are never the same.
The boundaries between literature and music have always been fascinatingly porous. Bob Dylan being awarded the Nobel prize sparked a lively dialogue about where one form ends and the other begins, and this ambitious novel continues that debate. Laura Barnett tests the boundaries both in theme – the book is the fictional biography of British singer-songwriter Cass Wheeler – and in form, through her collaboration with Mercury-nominated singer-songwriter Kathryn Williams, who has set the book’s lyrics to music for a separately released studio album. 
Barnett is clearly drawn to the “concept novel”: her bestselling debut, The Versions of Us, tracked a romance through three parallel worlds, drawing comparisons with Sliding Doors. Here, she starts each chapter with one of 16 songs chosen by Cass, now in her mid-60s and retired, for a compilation of her greatest hits, the “songs that tracked the arc of a lifetime”. Set over a single day which, Mrs Dalloway-like, builds to a party, the narrative reveals Cass’s backstory, each song recalling a different episode, including the tragedy that precipitated her breakdown and led to her personal and artistic withdrawal.
The novel is unsentimental in its exploration of her traumatic childhood and the role it played in her development as a creative artist. The mercurial moods of her mother coloured her early years and when she eventually abandoned her, Cass felt “the incommunicable sense of an emptiness opening in some deep part of herself”.  Music, to some extent, fills the void. Cass first gains a love of music from the piano played by a friend’s mother and then when she goes to live with her aunt, her passion develops further with a new guitar, Joan Baez records, and crucial contacts. 
Greatest Hits skilfully traces her trajectory to womanhood (“She has shucked off the skin of the girl she used to be”), and paints an intricate portrait of Cass’s relationship with her musical partner, Ivor. Through their intense, doomed love affair Barnett brilliantly conjures the corrosive effects of fame and competitiveness, the yearning for paths not taken. Ivor, too, had a troubled childhood and the word “hit” echoes in all its meanings; from musical successes to the sting of slaps, scars and hidden bruises. The time in childhood when Cass was hit by her mother reverberates shockingly.
The middle-aged Cass is approached by publishers about writing a memoir and this novel calls to mind recent memoirs by British musicians born in the 1950s and 60s: Viv Albertine, Brix Smith Start, Chrissie Hynde.
The mother/daughter relationship is the most moving aspect of this excellent book, and as Cass becomes a mother herself the novel asks, to what extent can harmful patterns be broken? And in the bleakest moments of our lives – when we tragically replicate hurt and lose what we most love – in what ways does music console and redeem?  This engaging, emotionally charged novel about music, motherhood and mental illness deserves to be a hit.
• Greatest Hits by Laura Barnett is published by Weidenfeld & Nicolson (£12.99). To order a copy for £9.74 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
The Booker-shortlisted author is known for her sharp focus on wild landscapes and the natural world, winning fans with The Electric Michelangelo and The Wolf Border. But her latest collection of short stories, Madame Zero, is full of characters coping with altered states and fresh challenges.
Do the troubled identities in this book indicate changes in your own life?There are people who believe you are the same person once you have had a baby, but that’s rubbish. I’ve had a turbulent two years because, as well as giving birth, my mother was diagnosed with a terminal illness. So I had a double whack to deal with, exacerbated probably by being a single parent since separating from my daughter’s father. Having said that, I actually don’t know which of the stories I wrote before I had her and which after. She is still only two, so I have to find moments to work and it is still quite intense.
You grew up in Cumbria and have written about animals and wildernesses. Is it odd to be living in urban Norwich?I do like open landscapes, although I tend to write about them when I am not actually there. I need a little distance. I would love my daughter to have a pet, but looking at dog owners carrying their little bags, I am not sure it is right in a city. We had pets when I was young. It was rural and there were horses around. I do swim a lot and think wild swimming is great. As long as the water looks fairly clean, I might well get in and swim.
Your stories frequently pivot on a single strong idea. Is this how they come to you?I do like short stories to be a powerful distilling. It is a place for dark psychology and a potent literary dosage. When I start out it usually stems from a thought, or something I heard in the news that gives me a shape. I like reading stories that give you a huge wallop, one you don’t see on the surface. I don’t like squibs.
Arresting images loom large in your work, particularly in the award-winning opening story in this collection, Mrs Fox, about a wife’s physical transformation. Are you inspired by dreams?I have a degree in art history, so maybe that’s part of it. There is a fever-dream feeling to some of my stories, but it comes from sensing moments when there is a reversal of current, and something has gone a bit wrong, rather than from an actual dream.
Is a short story a way to simplify an idea, or set a puzzle?A short story collection is a companionable thing because they seem to understand somehow that life is difficult to get to grips with. Short stories don’t take their eye off the fact we are mortal. They are not imposing order, although, conversely, they are harder to write. When you are limited to that kind of word count, it can be very hard. I want to just raise enough of the questions. You are not answering anything.
Is your writing about sex a feminist statement?I like writing about sex because it is such a complicated subject, as well as being familiar. It is a shared thing yet also a space in your own head. Men might say it is a more simple bodily act for them. I don’t know. Certainly women have centuries of social discrepancies feeding into it for them. My problem with sex as the place for women’s liberation is with situating everything in our bodies, because liberation is about more than that.
Has success made you self-critical as you write?With a short story, the calibration has to be right in the first draft. I am performing as if up against the clock and I really have to concentrate. Whereas in a novel, it is bound to be off kilter at some point. So, yes, the “editor” part of my brain is further forward now, to the extent that I sometimes do not write a sentence down at all.
Your written dialogue is spare and heavily freighted. Do you do small talk?I stop to talk to people in Norwich because it is a really friendly place, but I wouldn’t be regarded as the most sparkling person at a dinner party, or as being marvellously funny. I would much rather do it on the page than in life: it seems the best place to express something. Perhaps it is to do with having been wandering around on the moors as a kid and not being brought up in a rowdy household. I had an elder brother who was always climbing up trees.
• Madame Zero by Sarah Hall is published by Faber (£12.99). To order a copy for £11.04 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
Born in Dublin in 1955, Brendan Gleeson worked as a secondary school teacher of Irish and English before turning to acting full-time in 1991. He is best known for his roles in Calvary, In Bruges and The Guard. He has also appeared in Braveheart, Cold Mountain, 28 Days Later, Gangs of New York, and the Harry Potter films. His portrayal of Winston Churchill in the television film Into the Storm won him an Emmy award in 2009, and he has been nominated for three Golden Globes. Two of his four sons, Domhnall and Brian Gleeson, are also actors. Gleeson stars opposite Emma Thompson in Alone in Berlin, based on Hans Fallada’s second world war novel, and in Hampstead, both out now.
Boyle, County Roscommon
This is all that I love about home, the best parts of home. I first went there when I was 19 – I had a guitar I’d painted myself in some sort of vague, aspiring hippie-dom. I was a city boy in a country town and I was made to feel very welcome, which is not always the case. There’s a massive tradition of music there, and some of the older generation let me in on what traditional music is all about. Then in the 90s, people came back like John Carty, who was born in London but his father was from Roscommon. So the music is still thriving there, and it’s an incredibly beautiful place.
Defying Hitler: A Memoir by Sebastian Haffner
I read this doing research for Alone in Berlin, and it’s wonderful. It was written by a guy who got out of 30s Berlin. He felt that German law was so clear and robust that the judges would stop Hitler, but actually the judges were frightened and Hitler sent one pillar crumbling after another. It’s a wee bit frightening given the present-day situation. What struck me was a feeling of what has been lost culturally because of Nazism: even Bauhaus, which obviously did prosper, was repressed, then after the war people didn’t want to embrace German culture. So the book opened up a side of that I was certainly not familiar with.
The Revenant
My son [Domhnall] is in this, but that’s just the way it happens. I thought this was a great example of the art of cinema. It allowed me to feel the harshness of nature in a unique way – the scale of the savagery, and the uncaring attitude of the natural world were brought home in a way that I don’t remember seeing with that kind of immediacy before. It’s about how survival is paramount – you either survive or you don’t. The humans and animals were one, and I don’t remember that happening outside of David Attenborough, who can slightly humanise the animals, which is not exactly the way it is. But here all of us became part of this struggle to survive.
The Leenane Trilogy by Martin McDonagh
This was a standout. Druid, the Galway theatre company, ran three plays in a single day. It was a little bit intimidating to be honest, I mean I love theatre and all the rest of it, but three plays one after the other, I was kind of taking a deep breath. And it was the single most thrilling bit of theatre I’ve ever seen. It was enthralling from the beginning, and I can still remember Mick Lally, who’s since passed away, bashing skulls on a table in quite the most bizarre and hilarious experience I think I’ve ever had in the theatre, in A Skull in Connemara. The life-affirming juxtaposition of all this cruelty and love was just mind-bending.
Down in Hollywood by Ry Cooder
I’ve got an eclectic enough musical taste, but Ry Cooder has been always someone at the very base of what I retreat to. This track gives the other side of Hollywood, kind of a reality check, and there’s just something wonderful about the rhythm and the beat, that has a funky quality to it; it’s a little bit disruptive and a little bit cheeky. Every time I come across this song it’s a thrill and I have to stop everything I’m doing. I mean, they even re-enact a mugging on the track, so you just have to stop and listen, you can’t wash the dishes or anything when you listen to it, everything has to stop.
At Swim-Two-Birds by Flann O’Brien
I’ve been slightly obsessed with this book since I was 17 – I literally fell out of bed laughing at it – and have been trying for years to make it into a film. I could talk about it for a week. It’s about a guy writing a book who creates characters who are given self-will, and when the author is asleep they conspire against him. O’Brien took the Irish mythology he had been taught and undermined it with funny, sarcastic remarks. It’s the most complex novel – it’s comic and crazy but it all makes a kind of sense. It speaks to my heart and messes with my head.
The Taking of Christ by Caravaggio
There was a time I wouldn’t really enjoy a gallery if I hadn’t got somebody to share it with, but then being away and going to various galleries I got mad into the impressionists. Then Caravaggio became the big thing. He is possibly my favourite artist – partly because I want to play him, though I’m probably too old now. His life was extraordinary, and the beauty and honesty of his art was so much at odds with the belligerence of his personality. This painting was rediscovered in Dublin [at a Jesuit residence in 1987] and is now in the National Gallery of Ireland. I love the starkness of it, the cinematic quality: it’s so bright and arresting, even after 400 years.
“Wembley fackin’ Stadium!” boggles Adele, at the approximately 98,000 record-breaking souls arrayed around her in an oval of devotion. She is at the sweet spot in her set where, having dispatched three songs without mishap (Hello, Hometown Glory and One and Only), tradition dictates it’s safe for a bag of nerves to exhale and address their fans. One problem: “I can’t breathe in this dress!” she gasps, of her sparkly purple ballgown.
We are in the round, at the first of four emotional finales to Adele’s global victory lap for 25, her third album, which began 16 months ago in Belfast. For years, Adele cancelled gigs so often, she couldn’t get insured. She has come far – attacked by Mexican bats, sucked on by antipodean bugs and assailed by monsoons. The music industry powerhouse is very much looking forward to Sunday night, when she can come offstage for the last time, “smoke some fags” and have “some whisky”, “go wild”.
For afters, she wants to “just be mum” and “eat takeaways and drink white wine”. For how long? She may never tour again, she hints heavily. (“Don’t you fackin’ boo me!”) For all her sweary candour, though, Adele retains a pro’s grip on the laws of showbiz supply and demand. Keep ’em guessing. Leave ’em wanting more. As it turns out, the final two finales are cancelled.
The main event sometimes feels almost secondary to the real draw here, which is Adele herself
Belting ’em out is a given, at least at this point. Tonight, bathed in hot water and honey, Adele’s voice is tour-seasoned, and unable to miss a note. She knows her sets lean heavily on waves of bittersweet emotion, but Adele’s lower register, when it is allowed out to play, is actually so much more fun. Songs like Rumour Has It unleash her flirtatious husk, while Rolling in the Deep – penultimate in the set – relies on her righteous authority as much as it does her unrequited wail.
Tonight, Send My Love (To Your New Lover) is revealed as one of Adele’s secretly greatest songs, all tropical pop lilt and R&B leanings; it’s “about dickheads”. Quite why this versatile singer has allowed her catalogue to hit perimenopause so early remains a mystery we can surely ponder at length. Adele’s hands, her eyebrows and her pouts are clearly itching to sing more finger-snapping music.
The staging of these closing Wembley dates has moved on a great deal from the start of her UK tour in 2016. Adele now sings her huge songs from atop a giant cake of a stage, with musicians partially hidden beneath. A ring surrounds her, containing an inner circle of fans. For a dramatic Skyfall, it forms a perimeter manned by a large male-voice choir. Someone very clever has turned the doughnut of video screens into a zoetrope for Water Under the Bridge. The effect ends with a series of jerky images of Adele striking poses: a nod to the zoetrope, and simultaneously to the GIF.
None of the music has been audibly rescored, but many of the set’s visuals have been reshot. Skyfall finds Adele drowning beautifully in a red gown and lippy (“I look fackin’ great, right?”). The touristy flypasts of London that accompany Hometown Glory now end with a sombre meditation on the high-rise crematorium of Grenfell Tower, an arresting touch.
It’s not the last we hear of Grenfell. The week before last, Adele was spotted comforting survivors and visiting fire-fighters. Tonight, we are all exhorted to donate to a fund for victims. She’s going back next week, she vows. Adele used to whinge about taxes; now, she says, she has grown a social conscience. Does serendipity have an opposite? Just as Adele’s Dylan cover, Make You Feel My Love, is being dedicated to a volunteer helping Grenfell’s victims, just a few miles away, Conservative MPs are cheering the defeat of an amendment to a bill that would remove the cap on pay rises to, among others, the emergency services.
You probably couldn’t have an Adele stadium show without fireworks, T-shirt-dispensing bazooka and blizzards of confetti with her lyrics written on them. Her more operatic songs, like Set Fire to the Rain – rain on the video, explosions in the sky – certainly tick the mass-entertainment boxes.
Perversely, though, the main event sometimes feels almost secondary to the real draw here, which is Adele herself. If there was a choice between cutting a nonessential song such as I’ll Be Waiting, off 21, for more of Adele’s stream-of-consciousness wittering, who would not choose the wit and wisdom?
En passant, we learn that Adele doesn’t listen to her own songs, she enjoys “quite aggressive” stuff. Detecting the smell of weed in the air, she is impressed her fanbase would smoke such things. She belches off-mic. She gets shirty with spotlight operators. And she tells of how one song changed her life overnight.
She was drinking “three or four” bottles of wine a night after a break-up when she wrote Someone Like You, the stalker-y tale of someone who can’t let go, then does. It is the night’s closing act of mighty communion, upstaged only by its preamble. One day, teases Adele, she’ll tell us the actual story of what it took to get “that fucker” out of her house.
The first time Kubiiki Pride used Backpage, America’s largest classified website, was to buy a fridge. The second time she sold some clothes. The third time she was looking for her 13-year-old daughter.
The family had spent nine frantic months looking for MA, posting flyers, launching public appeals and scouring the streets. It took Kubiiki less than five minutes to find her on Backpage. “We were so desperate we were trying everything, but when my husband said check Backpage I was confused because I thought it was a site where you sold stuff you didn’t want any more. It never occurred to me that children were being bought and sold, too.”
My 13-year-old was starved, had her head shaved, was abused and then they sold her on Backpage like she was a used car
Kubiiki found the site and clicked on the adult section. “It took a minute for the page to load, but immediately the third link down from the top just caught my eye,” she says. “It was covered in hearts and these little flower pictures. It looked like something a kid would like, so I clicked on it and there was my baby.”
Initially Kubiiki was so flooded with relief at finding her daughter that she didn’t register what she was seeing. “At first I didn’t see the nakedness or what she was wearing or the poses she was in, but then it began to sink in, what the ad was for, and everything just fell apart.”
The Prides’ journey into the darkness of America’s domestic sex-trafficking industry had started the previous summer with an everyday act of teenage defiance. Kubiiki had told her daughter MA she was too young to attend an end-of-school party. Later that night MA sneaked out to join her friends, but found herself alone and without a ride home. A woman passing by offered help. “And that,” says Kubiiki, “was the start of my baby’s descent into hell.”
MA never made it home. Instead she was taken to a house, raped, beaten and fed drugs. “My 13-year-old was starved, had her head shaved, was abused and then, when her spirit was broken and she was addicted to the drugs she’d been given, they sold her on Backpage like she was a used car,” says Kubiiki, her voice cracking down the phone line from her home in Atlanta, Georgia. “When we got her home, a piece of her soul had gone forever.”
The trafficker was caught and given five years in jail, but the explicit photos of MA remained online. “I called Backpage dozens of times asking them to take down those photos, that my daughter was just a child and that what had been done to her was a crime,” says Kubiiki. “They refused and said if I didn’t pay for it, they couldn’t take it down. In the end they just stopped returning my calls.”
At first there were signs of good faith – they removed ads with nudity. But maybe all the money became intoxicating
Kubiiki’s anger at Backpage grew and grew. “Here was my child, destroyed and changed forever by what she’d gone through. Anyone could see from the pictures in the ad she was just a child, yet they allowed her to be bought and sold in this public marketplace and Backpage was making money off this abuse? I talked to MA and we said: ‘Oh no, this has to stop.’”
In 2010, Kubiiki and MA sued Backpage, arguing that the site was facilitating child sex trafficking. What they didn’t know at the time was that their lawsuit would be the first spark in an epic seven-year legal assault on the website, that it would pitch child trafficking victims against some of the world’s largest tech companies in what has been described as nothing less than the battle for the soul of the internet.
To really understand what happened, it’s important to chart how Backpage went from a feisty start-up to one of the world’s largest prostitution hubs.
In 2004, Backpage was launched by the iconic libertarian publishing house New Times Media (later to become Village Voice Media) on a wave of investment and optimism in the commercial potential of the internet.
The men behind Backpage – New Times Media founders Jim Larkin and publisher Michael Lacey – are to many the heroes and architects of the alternative newsweeklies movement, newspaper bad boys who championed subversion of the establishment and ushered in one of the most glorious eras of American journalism. They founded scores of independent newsweeklies in the 70s and 80s. They grew their first, the Phoenix New Times, into a national media company with a portfolio including the Village Voice in 2005.
Along the way, Lacey and Larkin grew their reputation as mavericks. Lacey had his knuckles tattooed with the word “holdfast”. In 2004, a run-in with a Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio resulted in the subsequent wrongful arrest of Larkin and Lacey in 2007 after their Phoenix paper printed details of his real-estate dealings. In 2005, in a rare interview with New York Magazine, Lacey said: “As a journalist, if you don’t get up in the morning and say, ‘Fuck you’ to someone,’ why even do it?”
New Times Media launched Backpage as an online advertising business that would keep their journalist endeavours afloat. The site included adult listings that Village Voice Media defended as being in line with its libertarian heritage. The ads also turned Backpage into a multi-million dollar commercial powerhouse and made Larkin, Lacey and Backpage CEO Carl Ferrer, very, very rich.
By 2011, a breakdown of Backpage’s weekly ad revenues put to bed any pretence that Backpage was anything but an escort service masquerading as a classifieds business – more than 90% of its weekly revenues came from this section alone.
The most cursory browse of Backpage’s UK site – it is now operational in more than 96 countries – makes this abundantly clear. Many of the sections listing cars or jobs have one or two listings per day. The escort and dating pages have hundreds, page after page of ads decorated with hearts and hot pink lips emojis and shots of half-naked female torsos selling escort services, massages and good times.
For Mary Mazzio, an award-winning documentary maker who has spent the past two years charting the battle against Backpage for her film I Am Jane Doe, the crucial turning point came when the money got serious. In 2012, Lacey, Larkin and Ferrer ditched the newspaper business and went solo with Backpage – reportedly pocketing $10m bonuses two years later.
“I certainly don’t think anyone at New Times intended for the website to become what it has become,” says Mazzio. Almost immediately after launching, reports of child trafficking among Backpage’s sex ads had started ringing alarm bells. “At first there were clear signs of good faith – they removed full-frontal nudity, hired moderators. But the thing that shocked me most about making this film was that those guys who ran Backpage, back in the day they were rabble-raising libertarians, yet, at some point, my view is that maybe the money became so outrageously intoxicating, perhaps there was this notion that the sale of children was simply collateral damage.”
Over the past decade the enormous revenue streams created by the voracious appetite for online sex ads has thrown anti-trafficking campaigners into a state of acute alarm.
All a pimp needs is a classified website to post ads and a cell phone. All the client needs is an internet connection
“The scale of child sexual exploitation is not something many people are willing or able to accept,” says Yiota Souras, senior vice-president at the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC). Some campaigners believe that up to 100,000 children like MA are exploited for profit across the country every year.
“What we do know for certain is that, since 2010, the number of reports of suspected sex trafficking has gone off the chart – we registered an 846% increase between 2010-2014 and this number is growing every year,” says Souras. “And we believe a large driver of this has been the increased use of the internet in the buying and selling of children.”
Souras says the unfettered and largely unregulated growth of the internet has been a gift for traffickers. Online classified websites, such as Backpage, have provided a cheap and relatively risk-free platform through which to conduct their business, with traffickers scattering children among the thousands of ads for private massages or escort services.
“All a pimp needs is a classified website to post ads and a cell phone. All the client needs is an internet connection,” says Souras.
She laughs at Backpage’s argument that by screening ads for signs of child trafficking and reporting potential illegal activity to the authorities, online classified sites carrying adult listings are key players in the fight against online trafficking. “Let’s be clear about what these ads are about. By their own admission, Backpage edited approximately 80% of adult ads,” she says. “Even with this being the case, no one looking at the adult ads or dating section of Backpage would have any doubt that many of these ads relate to potentially illegal activity or exploitative content.”
Nobody has a clear idea of how many children have been sold on Backpage but, currently, 73% of child sex trafficking reports NCMEC receives from the public relate to Backpage ads. NCMEC’s early collaborative relationship with Backpage soured when, Souras said, it became clear the site was using NCMEC as good PR but failing to implement adequate checks and balances that the centre believed needed to be put in place to protect vulnerable children.
“They weren’t willing to invest in what we believed were comprehensive measures to protect children,” she says. “They were far more focused on hiring a legal team to ensure that their revenue streams could continue.”
Mazzio’s documentary forensically timelines the legal assault waged against Backpage, first by Kubiiki and MA and then by other families along with state prosecutors and law enforcement officers. Her film also charts the astonishment and dismay as one by one their lawsuits bit the dust.
“They just kept on winning,” says Brad Myles, director of anti-trafficking group Polaris. Judge after judge accepted that Backpage was not accountable under US law for the child trafficking occurring on its website. Backpage was, according to the courts, no different from any other web publisher provided immunity for content posted by third parties under the 1996 Communications and Decency Act, where section 230 had been included to ensure that the burgeoning tech industry was not crushed by litigation. It has also emerged that not-for-profit special interest groups funded by companies including Google have supported Backpage’s legal battles and provided expert briefs in support of the site.
“The most disheartening indication of our judiciary’s legal priorities,” says Myles, “was the fact that judges would do nothing to hold a website that was profiting from the sale of children accountable to preserve the legal immunity of the billion-dollar tech industry.”
Kubiiki and MA were devastated by the judge’s decision not to let their case against Backpage go to trial. “These are children who are being raped, yet the whole debate around Backpage has become about the rights of internet companies to not get sued?” says Kubiiki.
It feels like the veil has been lifted and the idea these people are crusaders of free speech has been blown away
Yet, as Eric Goldman, professor at Santa Clara University School of Law in California and the co-director of the High Tech Law Institute, points out, the judiciary was just implementing the law. “It is crucial to understand that, under the law, if an ad comes from a third party, a website is not liable for publishing it,” he says. “It doesn’t matter if they profited from it or even if they suspect it is illegal.”
Goldman also points out the civil cases brought against Backpage by families seeking damages for the exploitation of their children, are a drop in the ocean of lawsuits engulfing Backpage over the past seven years. Many of the state and federal litigations launched against Backpage are targeting the website for all of its online sex ads, not just the cases of child trafficking that occur on its site
“I reject this concept that it is child trafficking victims versus the tech industry,” says Goldman. “My question is that if the goal of this litigation is to benefit the victims of sex trafficking, is this really the best way to do this? Will destroying Backpage stop other children being exploited online? For me, this is not about the legitimacy of online prostitution or advertising, it is that Backpage is the canary in the coalmine for section 230.
“Litigation resulting from a change to section 230,” he continues, “would be pocket change for the big tech giants. But it’s about the hundreds of other companies doing amazing things that make us happier, healthier and wealthier, and defending an assault on the freedoms of the online space. And these are values worth fighting for.”
Regardless of which side you come down on, it looks as if the net could be closing around Backpage. When Carl Ferrer failed to answer a subpoena to appear before a Senate subcommittee in 2016 investigating child trafficking, the Senate’s response was to launch a full-blown investigation into the company. One of the closing scenes in Mazzio’s documentary is the moment when Larkin, Lacey and Ferrer are forced to appear before the subcommittee in January this year.
Earlier that day Backpage had finally closed its adult services listings. “Today, the censors prevailed,” wrote Lacey and Larkin in a statement. “The shutdown of Backpage’s adult classified advertising is an assault on the First Amendment. We maintain hope for a more robust and unbowed internet in the future.”
Court footage catches the Backpage executives staring at senators, truculent and unbowed they yawn and look conspicuously at their watches before refusing to answer any questions. They cite both their First and Fifth Amendment rights while the Senate subcommittee detail the investigation findings which concluded Backpage knowingly and deliberately facilitated child trafficking for profit.
The report said that instead of working to prevent child exploitation, Backpage was focused on getting as many ads posted as possible. It instructed moderators to edit ads and strip out the code words used by pimps to indicate that the person in the ad was a child. Words such as “Lolita”, “fresh” and “amber alert” – police code word for a missing child – were edited out and the ads posted. In one subpoenaed email believed to be from Backpage management, moderators were instructed: “If in doubt about underage: the process for now should be to accept the ad…”
Backpage executives are now facing fresh criminal charges and a possible grand jury investigation in Arizona. Last month, the first civil case brought by the family of a trafficked child – JS – was also allowed to go to trial.
“It feels like finally the veil has been lifted and the idea that these people are crusaders of free speech has been blown away,” says Nacole Smith whose daughter JS was trafficked in 2011. “In less than 36 hours, my daughter went from being a 15-year-old all-American kid to being sold for sex on that website,” says Nacole. Just hours after JS left Nacole a note saying she was going to “find herself”, she met another runaway girl on the street who introduced her to a pimp. He beat and raped her and then advertised her as an escort on Backpage. A month after JS went missing she called home to wish Nacole a happy birthday.
“She was crying, saying: ‘You don’t want me, I’m broken, I’m a bad person,’” says Nacole. “To hear your own daughter say those things when all you want is for her to come back to you is beyond devastating.”
To Nacole, it is the right of the children to be heard that is the thing most worth fighting for.
“For me, the biggest tragedy is that for seven years there has been all this debate about free speech and First Amendment rights. And the basic fact that these are children who are being raped and sold on a public website somehow got pushed to the background. What happened to the rights of my child?” asks Nacole, fury in her voice. “What if this was your daughter? How would you feel if this happened to you?”
Some names have been changed. The documentary I am Jane Doe by Mary Mazzio is on Netflix
Maps show us patterns of travel, with the most frequent journeys – between towns and cities, to ports and airports – represented by motorways; the rarest are along skinny country lanes. So what does it say about Hugh Thomson’s seventh book that its map of northern England has no roads? Instead it marks rivers, county boundaries, towns and villages relevant to the story, and the route the author took from St Bees on the Irish Sea, the most westerly point of northern England, to Robin Hood’s Bay on the North Sea. The remote, random, meandering nature of this hugely enjoyable peregrination could not have been better expressed.
A “health warning” preface explains that if Thomson merely wanted to go from A to B, he would have driven it in hours or cycled it in a couple of days. The point was to walk, and the point of walking was to have time to think and to encounter – and, as the roadless map suggests, to refer to a time before the combustion engine changed our existence. Hence the mule, which 600 years ago was the nation’s pack animal of preference, the medieval articulated lorry capable of carrying huge loads long distances. Thomson charts its fall from grace (thanks to its association with Catholics – the pope was often depicted on a mule), following Henry VIII’s break with Rome.
Thomson has a fine ear for dialogue and a love of the absurd: travelling with a mule provides plenty of cues
One thing soon becomes clear: mules have earned every letter of the idiom “as stubborn as…”. Jethro, the mule Thomson eventually engaged courtesy of the RSPCA, was an eight-year-old rescue animal with plenty of psychological baggage. That might explain why, in spite of its physical abilities, Jethro was burdened with nothing bigger than “the clutch bags carried by ladies who lunch”. So, while the mule carried sandwiches, water, a knife and a map, the human beside him shouldered a full backpack. That should read “the humans” because, in spite of the book’s title, for much of the narrative there were at least two men: Thomson was accompanied along the way by the author and broadcaster Jasper Winn, a judicious choice of companion because as well as being a good friend, Winn knows a huge amount about walking and is something of a mule whisperer.
A book about a journey across northern England could turn out in several different ways. In the hands of a stylist – a writer such as Robert Macfarlane – it might focus on the language of landscape (and with good reason, as it is among the country’s finest) and the linguistic rarities of the people in the valleys. It could have offered material for a psycho-geography. Yet another way would be to focus on the people met along the way, which is what Thomson has done. Thomson’s short profiles are lively and entertaining, none more so than that of Amanda Owen, bestselling author of A Yorkshire Shepherdess, who casually mentions to him that she has just given birth prematurely to her eighth child. Thomson has a fine ear for dialogue and a love of the humorous and absurd: travelling with a mule provides plenty of cues. But there is grandeur in the animals, too, because, as is explained here, it was a mule who bore King David into Jerusalem, the corpse of Alexander the Great to his final resting place, and the Duke of Wellington’s cannon during the Peninsula war. It turns out there is plenty of history along the way, which allows Thomson to summon the ghosts of travellers past, from Wordsworth and Coleridge to Alfred Wainwright, who did more than anyone to champion walking in this part of the world and who blazed the coast-to-coast trail Thomson follows.
As in the author’s previous book, The Green Road Into the Trees, which described a walk in southern England (and won the Wainwright prize), there is evocative writing of nature and the landscape beyond the entertainment. Mules are not the only things that have disappeared from our countryside and Thomson takes on the issues: the curse of EU subsidies that leave fields bare, the hardships of sheep farming, the breakdown of rural community life and the increasing restrictions of access to land that we could all have walked across not so long ago. If this trend continues, one day it may become impossible to make this sort of journey. For now, though, Thomson has an answer to the question his father asked when he called in the middle of the journey. “Taking a mule across England? Really? Whatever for?” Because he can.
• One Man and a Mule by Hugh Thomson is published by Preface (£20). To order a copy for £17 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
Film-makers are not, for the most part, paragons of cool, but Sofia Coppola is different – a director whose pristine aesthetic extends beyond the screen into what her close friend the fashion designer Marc Jacobs admiringly terms an “art of living”. Stephen Dorff, star of her 2010 film Somewhere, deems her coolness contagious: “When she casts me, everyone thinks I’m cool again.” And down in the more lowly ranks of film criticism, standard-issue scepticism becomes fannish enthusiasm when I mention I’m about to interview her: “Oh God, I just want her life,” one friend gushes.
Six feature films into her career, Coppola remains unique in a film industry that, in particular, rarely makes celebrities of female directors. Born into the Hollywood firmament – the daughter of era-owning auteur Francis Ford Coppola – she came to film-making via acting, modelling and fashion design. She’s married to a French rock star, Phoenix frontman Thomas Mars, and they divide their time between Manhattan’s West Village and Paris.
Yet Coppola’s coolness remains principally defined by her work. The gorgeously designed but sincerely dreamy sense of melancholy that runs through her films – from the faintly autobiographical lonelyhearts valentine Lost in Translation to the swirling historical reverie of Marie Antoinette or the spiky, morally ruthless youthquake of The Bling Ring – makes them seem more alike than they are. They seem to start from her own impeccable image and then build on it: Scarlett Johansson’s pensive Tokyo drifter from Lost in Translation is sealed in our imaginations, accurately or otherwise, as Coppola’s alter ego.
“Oh God, really? I’m cool?” Coppola says shyly. “It’s just funny if people think that,” she murmurs. “I was watching some clips of myself on the red carpet from last night and I feel, like, so dorky on them. I’m really nerdy. And I live with a 10-year-old who thinks I’m very uncool.”
That 10-year-old – Romy, the elder of the two daughters Coppola has with Mars – is several thousand miles away from the vast, bay-view suite in Cannes’s Martinez hotel: a plush pile-on of old-school Riviera glamour, preserved in palest amber from the days of Hitchcock’s To Catch a Thief. Luscious bouquets of cabbage-sized, blush-coloured peonies (a gift from Chanel) adorn the room; Coppola, barefoot in wide-legged jeans and an origami-crisp white shirt, black spectacles balanced a few degrees askew on her nose, is giving nerdery a makeover.
Coppola’s sixth film, The Beguiled, has just premiered here at the Cannes festival. When we meet in the early evening, she’s exhausted and halfway through packing, restless to get home to her family in New York the next morning. “I have to get back to real life,” she says. “Everything is so heightened here.”
She’s not planning to return for the Cannes closing ceremony – where, as it turns out, she ends up winning the best director prize, only the second woman in the festival’s 70-year history to do so. At this point, Coppola’s only concerned with audiences liking the film, a sad, sensual, wickedly funny slice of southern gothic based on the civil war-set novel by Thomas P Cullinan – and about a million miles removed from Don Siegel’s lurid, sweatily macho 1971 adaptation of the same text.
She has reason to be nervous, and not just because the film’s taut thriller trappings and sly streak of high camp mark it as something of a departure for her: it’s the first film she’s presented in competition at Cannes since 2006’s Marie Antoinette, the proud teen-girl perspective and brazen anachronisms of which earned her a pelting of literal boos from the festival’s dour critical patriarchy. “It’s always a lot of pressure showing anything you’ve made, and I knew that film was more obnoxious,” she admits. “But it’s still nerve-racking coming back.”
Now 46, Coppola has both experience and critical revisionism on her side. A decade ago, after her Oscar win for Lost in Translation, many critics had knives out for a film-maker who’s always had to fight accusations of silver-spoon privilege – from a male-dominated industry guilty sometimes of writing off the “girlier” aspects of Coppola’s film-making as mere frippery. Years have been kind to Marie Antoinette, however: its images have endured, its critical standing has strengthened. “People often come up to me and say how much they enjoyed it, so I feel like it’s settled in and found a place,” she says. “It’s gotten more of a life now than when it came out.”
Cannes laurels notwithstanding, critics are also fiercely taking sides over The Beguiled. Following its US release last month, controversy has brewed around allegations of Coppola “whitewashing” Cullinan’s text, following her decision to remove the supporting character of a black female slave for her version, and to cast Kirsten Dunst in a role presented as biracial in the novel. The film’s beautifully designed period trappings “evince a commitment to authenticity, [but] no interest in the people on whose backs that lavish lifestyle was built,” complained Slate; in subsequent interviews, Coppola has calmly defended her decision “not [to] brush over such an important topic in a light way,” adding: “Young girls watch my films and this was not the depiction of an African American character I would want to show them.”
What some might see as deflection strikes me as a kind of humility, a director acknowledging the specificity of her own worldview. It’s not the first time Coppola’s films, many of which centre on the frustrations of white characters blessed with enviable wealth and/or celebrity, have been accused of betraying the social and cultural privileges of her own upbringing. Such a concentration shouldn’t be mistaken for celebration, however, and the same goes for The Beguiled: it’s a film tacitly haunted by suggestions of abuse and oppression.
Gender politics are foremost. The story of an injured Union soldier (Colin Farrell) grudgingly sheltered in a Mississippi ladies’ seminary overseen by Nicole Kidman’s flinty schoolmarm – his presence causing social and sexual discord among its young inhabitants – the film apportions guilt and vengeance far more ambiguously than Siegel’s version, which fashioned it as a grand guignol fable of male victimhood. In Coppola’s, each immaculate frame is suffused with female desire, pulling the audience’s sympathies from character to character, resting eventually with the quiet, lonely yearning of Kirsten Dunst’s junior schoolmistress.
For Coppola, Siegel’s film wasn’t a cherished or sacred text. “I wasn’t very familiar with it, to be honest, and it’s not very well known in the States except among cinephiles,” she says. “But Anne Ross, my production designer and an old friend, told me that I had to see it, that I should remake it. It became kind of a joke to us. But I watched it and it just stayed in my head – because it was so weird. I really loved the whole premise. I just thought a story about this enemy soldier coming into this southern girls’ environment was so interesting, and that I’d love to kind of flip it: to tell the same story but from the women’s point of view, what it must have been like for them. Not a remake but a reinterpretation. ‘Remake’ is like a bad word in our family. I would never.”
From its female gaze to its dusty-rose palette, the film is certainly feminised – but did Coppola intend it as a feminist work, as some critics claim it is? “I don’t love that labelling myself,” she says. “I’m happy if other people see it that way, but I just see it as having a female perspective, which isn’t always the same thing to me.”
Coppola prefers not to think schematically about such things. She has admitted to being unfamiliar with the Bechdel test, the frequently cited academic measure of the extent to which female characters talk to each other in the space of a screenplay – a test The Beguiled nonetheless passes with flying colours. “It’s a story about strong women, and I wanted to look at these characters in more depth, where in the 1971 film, they’re more kind of crazy, or just caricatures. You don’t really know as much about them.”
For the New York-born, California-reared Coppola, it was also a chance to explore a different part of America. “The south is always very exotic to me: I wanted the film to represent an exaggerated version of all the ways women were traditionally raised there just to be lovely and cater to men – the manners of that whole world, and how they change when the men go away.”
Though it’s set in the 19th century, she wanted the setting and its gender tensions to retain a contemporary resonance. “I thought of seeing Gone With the Wind as a kid, and then tried to make something that’s naturalistic – to be relatable even though it’s another era. Even with the costumes and hair, we tried to refer to the period but make it so you could connect.” In this regard, Coppola’s fashion sensibilities came into play: Stacey Battat’s costumes appear half dredged from the attic of a plantation mansion, and half filched from the Chanel catwalk.
Coppola delights in such prettiness, and not just for its own sake – The Beguiled, she felt, was a necessary corrective to the harsher, harder Los Angeles glare of The Bling Ring, a caustic drama based on the true story of a gang of bored, wealthy Beverly Hills teens who take to celebrity house burglary. “That movie was so ugly to me, so I really wanted to follow it with something beautiful, something poetic after all that trash culture,” she says. “Every movie is affected by the one before it. This one actually reminded me of Virgin Suicides, that kind of pastel world – I wanted the story to be very feminine and non-threatening, until a man comes into it.”
In an industry where a feminine point of view continues to be devalued – where harder-edged genre directors like Kathryn Bigelow are praised for supposedly proving themselves on a man’s turf – the aesthetic delicacy of Coppola’s cinema, with its undisguised interest in fashion, floral motifs and tender female beauty, is its own kind of defiant statement. Eighteen years into her directorial career, Coppola has weathered any number of sexist jibes against her work – dismissing her aesthetic as decorative or insubstantial in terms that comparable stylists such as Wes Anderson hear less often – and remains unfazed.
In the US, the film’s marketers have explicitly pitched the film to a young female market, with a Twitter campaign heavy on hashtags like #Squad, #VengefulBitches and #HBIC (Head Bitch In Charge, if you’re wondering). It’s not an intuitive route, but Coppola is wryly accepting of the vagaries of marketing. (“Does this pose say, ‘Come and see my film’?” she quips to our photographer three weeks after Cannes, when we meet in London for the Observer’s photoshoot.) Whatever form it takes on social media – a playground Coppola personally avoids – she is glad to play up the “girlier” aspects of her work.
“I just feel like I have a feminine point of view and I’m happy to put that out there. We certainly have enough masculine ones,” she says. “I never felt like I had to fit into the majority view. Maybe growing up with so many strong men around me meant I felt, I don’t know, closely connected to being feminine. I mean in my first movie I felt like making something for teenage girls. I looked at the movies they made for teenage girls and thought: why can’t they have beautiful photography? Why shouldn’t we treat that audience with respect? That was something I missed when I was that age: I wished the movies weren’t so condescending. So I guess I’ve always just made the films that I’d have wanted to see.”
This is something of a luxury, as Coppola doesn’t mind admitting. As the daughter of the industry titan who made Apocalypse Now and the Godfather films – and whose production company, Zoetrope, has backed all her features to date – she hasn’t exactly met the usual challenges faced by other women trying to break Hollywood’s glass ceiling. But that’s not to say she hasn’t felt the sting of gender discrimination: being the daughter of a major name has as many cons as it does pros.
“When I first started, people would say things like, ‘Oh, your casting was really well done. Did your father or your husband help you?’ [At the time, Coppola was married to director Spike Jonze.] And that was really insulting, obviously. You wouldn’t say that to a male director.” Does it annoy her still to be referred to as Francis Ford Coppola’s daughter, then? “It very much depends on the way it’s said. I’m proud to be his daughter. I learned to have balls from him, and integrity. But I have a body of work now, and it has its own identity. He’s a great master, but I’m happy to carve out my own way of working.”
Coppola’s brushes with industry sexism are one reason she prefers to keep working in the independent sphere, where gender disparity is less pronounced. “When it comes to bigger-budget studio movies, there’s definitely a bias – it’s harder for them to hire a woman,” she says. At the film’s Cannes press conference the day before, Nicole Kidman cited a statistic stating that only 2% of Hollywood studio projects are female directed; Coppola admits the figure is even lower than she thought. Her own lone brush with studio film-making came to nothing: attached in 2015 to direct a live-action version of The Little Mermaid for Disney, she backed out over the old industry chestnut of “creative differences”.
“My experience was that when there’s a big budget there’s less creative freedom,” she says of the experience. “There’s so many cooks in the kitchen because it’s more about business than art. And I was excited because I thought oh, you know, I could try to change this or that, and it wasn’t that easy. So I was so glad to then work on The Beguiled, which was contained and I could really control every aspect of it. And you can do that on a low budget. Even then, I’m always surprised at how hard it is to get another film off the ground. It always feels like your first movie all over again.”
Coppola is dubious about the state of Hollywood cinema, which she sees as a more risk-averse realm than it was in her father’s 1970s heyday. “It’s such a conservative time,” she sighs. “Studios just don’t want to make weird movies. Kirsten [Dunst] and I were talking last night about Harold and Maude: imagine pitching a love story about an 80-year-old woman and an 18-year-old guy today. Luckily I can raise finance and do things separately. But I do feel like the movies that are being made by studios are pretty...” she trails off, and briefly makes a face. “It’s not a great time.”
She means “conservative” in a creative sense, though I wonder if there’s a political edge to her weariness: when I bring up the T-word that is all but unavoidable in any conversation with an American these days, her shoulders visibly sag. “It does feel strange being in New York now, with all of that going on and then having Trump Tower just looming here over us,” she says darkly. After several years in Paris, she and Mars made New York their home base in 2010; despite recent political developments, they’re contentedly ensconced there with Romy and seven-year‑old Cosima.
“We live in the West Village, which feels like its own different world, the kids go to school there, and it’s a nice place to be,” she says. “Tom’s band is still based in Paris, and there’s our French family, so we’ll go there in the summer. So we get a bit of both.”
Coppola’s guard goes up slightly when the subject turns to her family: she keeps a determinedly low public profile, insistent that her daughters’ lives go largely uninterrupted by her career and her travels. As something of a Hollywood brat herself – just a teenager when she took cruel critical brickbats for playing a role in The Godfather III at her father’s request – is her low-exposure parenting the product of life experience? “I don’t want them ever to be jaded,” she says. “I never saw the point of taking little kids to movie premieres and stuff. I just want them to have a childhood.”
Watching movies, on the other hand, remains a treasured family activity. “The girls love them, but they have really bad taste!” she says, eyes rolling affectionately. “I feel like I was exposed to all these great movies at their age, but if there’s anything classic, they’re like no, we’re not watching an old movie. So that’s funny.” It’s reassuring to know that Sofia Coppola, like any other parent out there, has also been enslaved to Frozen.
Things change, of course: Coppola herself admits to being bored by many of the canon classics that were on rotation in her parents’ household growing up, until experiencing a breakthrough, aged 13, with Jean-Luc Godard’s Breathless. And those tastes, she says, are transient: “I feel my films are a snapshot of that moment and who I was, where I was, at that time. I don’t revisit them much.” Has she considered what The Beguiled reveals about her now? She frowns. “I think I’m still far too close to it to say – ask me in a few years’ time,” she replies. “But what’s different about this one for me is that I’ve now been the age of each of the major characters, so I have more insight into each of them and their level of maturity. So perhaps it’s more than one snapshot at a time now.”
As such, she has little sense of where her tastes might drift to next – though she has one dream collaborator on her wishlist you wouldn’t necessarily guess. “I would really love to direct Eddie Murphy,” she says, a slight twinkle disrupting her thoughtful expression. “I’ve always been such a fan of his, and I wish he would do something interesting.” I’m intrigued to find out where the worlds of Sofia Coppola and Eddie Murphy might collide, I say.
“So am I,” she laughs. “I’ll try to figure it out.”
The Beguiled is out on 14 July
‘Is the accuser always holy now?” asks the hero of Arthur Miller’s The Crucible. It is a line that echoes through modern drama and underpins Andrew Keatley’s topical play about a teacher facing allegations of historical abuse. One of three pieces being given a second life in Hampstead’s downstairs space, where it was first staged last year, it confirms the gift for exhuming family secrets that Keatley displayed in The Gathered Leaves in 2015, even if it could still make its points more succinctly.
Keatley’s hero, Daniel, is a dedicated teacher confronted by the charge that six years previously he sexually assaulted a female pupil during a school trip to Ypres. We see how Daniel’s life is gradually destroyed by the accusation. Suspended by the school, he faces repeated interrogation by his lawyer, finds his wife starting to doubt his innocence and sees his seven-year-old daughter traumatised by the investigation. Once the police make a formal arrest, Daniel is vilified in the popular press, undergoes trial by social media and finds himself publicly branded a paedophile.
Keatley’s larger theme is that no one is perfect and that we have all done things of which we are ashamed. But, in order to make the point that Daniel, however innocent, has his defects, Keatley overdoes the circumstantial detail. It’s quite enough that Daniel shields the exact truth from his lawyer, but, as his past is dredged up, we learn that he had a drinking problem, watched schoolgirl porn and was a sexually rampageous student. Any one of those would be sufficient to show that we all have secrets that might one day be used in evidence against us.
Performed in an intimate traverse space, the piece has a claustrophobic power well caught in Simon Evans’ fast-paced production. Alec Newman captures perfectly Daniel’s sense of rage and frustration at seeing his whole life subjected to merciless scrutiny. Susan Stanley admirably conveys his wife’s doubts and fears, and there is impeccable support from Leah Whitaker as his starchy lawyer and from Tillie Murray as his daughter. It is she who gives the play its title by mishearing the word “allegations”. But the whole play is based on the plausible premise that any one of us could be ruined by a simple misunderstanding.
• At Hampstead theatre, London, until 22 July. Box office: 020-7722 9301.
The exuberant comic talents of Will Ferrell and Amy Poehler are largely wasted in this uninspired addition to the frat movie canon, which resembles reheated leftovers of the Hangover, albeit with a curious detour into some heavy bloodletting.
The pair star as Scott and Alex, two suburban parents who are forced to take desperate measures when their daughter’s college scholarship is yanked away from her. The answer, clearly, is to start an illegal casino in the McMansion of their gambling addict best friend (Jason Mantzoukas), earn just enough money to cover the uni fees and quietly close it down before the authorities notice. Of course, things don’t quite pan out that way, and soon their impromptu gambling den is hosting bare-knuckle boxing, coke binges and the odd torture scene.
It’s a premise with promise and Ferrell and Poehler throw themselves into proceedings with the usual relish, but they’re poorly served by a baggy script and a tendency towards genre tropes – surely Ferrell, for example, must be tiring of playing the “strait-laced soccer dad who rapidly backslides into deviancy” role he’s once again lumbered with here. Most tellingly of all, the now customary end-credits outtakes prove more amusing than the film itself. The House, it seems, doesn’t always win.
The band who brought southern soul to Britpop continued to keep their creative vision wide open, as psychedelic sunlight was poured into driving guitar pop not unlike MGMT or Tame Impala.
What we said: The Charlatans’ 13th album is grounded on the band’s own indestructible chemistry, Tim Burgess’s exquisitely happy-sad vocals and their ability to juggle melancholy and joy into exhilarating pop songs.
Read the full review
The year’s best underground release so far, in which pieces by Canadian spoken-word artist Myra Davies are paired with pounding electronic backdrops from producers Gudrun Gut and Beate Bartel. The drolly observational Davies covers everything from retellings of Wagner to slices of life in Istanbul airport, and even a very funny takedown of John Cage.
Dawson continues to prove he’s one of the UK’s most vivid songwriters, as he delves into Britain’s medieval past in tales of scientists, soldiers and violence in bathhouses. There’s a bit of eastern mysticism and American Primitive in the twanging guitars, blended with superb melodic invention as Dawson’s voice roams from keening falsetto into singsong speech.
What we said: An album that’s out there on its own, and not merely because it’s a song cycle set in the early middle ages that doesn’t make you want to curl up and die of embarrassment. Abstruse but weirdly accessible, recherche but pertinent, Peasant is quite an achievement.
Read the full review
It may have few of the rollicking numbers that turn his live show into a beer-spattered melee, but DeMarco’s ruminative voice suits his ever more mournful take on soft rock, synthpop and acoustic ballads.
What we said: There’s undeniably a bid for respectability going on here – DeMarco once famously performed with a drumstick up his bum, which is a reputation that takes some shedding. But this melancholic approach – serious themes, stoned demeanour – seems a smart way to reposition himself.
Read the full review
The patron saint of Instagram DMs loosened up again after the slightly staid Views album, using a “playlist” framework to showcase his diaspora-straddling take on R&B. Blem and Passionfruit nicely pre-empted summer, while Kanye West and Young Thug brought exceptional melodies to Glow and Ice Melts, and Giggs and Jorja Smith did the UK proud.
What we said: The project is closer towards old-school rap mixtapes, where unreleased tracks sat alongside potential singles and one-off tracks from crew hangers-on. Even if the album lacks the humour of the Views songs 9 or Child’s Play ... the breadth of styles recalls his 2012-2015 SoundCloud that found space for both Fetty Wap and James Blake remixes.
Read the full review
After her debut Dark Energy blew us away in 2015, the former steelworker from Gary, Indiana has created another stunningly off-kilter take on Chicago’s high-speed footwork style. Chants and eerie snatches of film dialogue ricochet around restless drum programming that invites seriously wonky dancing. Read Simon Reynolds’ interview with her here.
Despite having only just graduated from high school, Steve Lacy has already been nominated for a Grammy for his production on the Internet’s album Ego Death, and made the backing for Pride by Kendrick Lamar (featured on Damn, listed below). His solo debut may only be 13 minutes long, but its sunbaked, lo-fi take on soul-pop – imagine a more ramshackle Miguel – suggests a very exciting future.
The world’s No 1 MC continues to blend earworms with exploratory flow, on a set where Lamar’s lens turns from himself to the world and back again throughout.
What we said: Whether Damn will have the same epochal impact as To Pimp a Butterfly remains to be seen, but either way it sounds like the work of a supremely confident artist at the top of his game.
Read the full review
Hip-hop purists can’t stand him for his DayGlo aesthetic and ill-disciplined metre, but more fool them – Lil Yachty’s tremendous debut album features everything from 80s boogie to ferocious trap and sad-boy balladry, in tracks that experimentally push the boundaries of rap.
What we said: This is an instinctively catchy and frequently startling record. Yachty draws on some clear influences – the arrhythmic streams of teen consciousness of Lil B and Soulja Boy, the radical, Auto-Tuned solipsism of Kanye West, the soapbox declarations of Young Thug – and carbonates them into brilliant outsider pop.
Read the full review
The underground electronic producer has dabbled in everything from dub techno to synth jams in the past, but empties out her entire paintbox on this ambitious and brilliant record. These are songs from the very outer reaches of pop, loose but with a unique centre of gravity.
What we said: An album that brilliantly reimagines jazz songcraft for the 21st century … a triumph of impressionism, where the digital and organic coexist in a radically beautiful whole.
Read the full review
A reflection on femininity partly borne out of studies of muses, painters and psychoanalysts, this is a smart, beautifully produced album held up by surefooted rhythm, draped in gorgeous strings – and of course anchored by Marling’s clear-eyed lyricism.
What we said: Punchy and confident ... an album that’s as big on telling details as it is on big ideas.
Read the full review
The eternally feuding emo-punks carry on their decisive march into pure pop, with tight funk licks, soft-rock moods and Hayley Williams’s ever-instinctive attraction to chorus melodies.
What we said: The grooves they always possessed are brought to the forefront on this peppy, vibrant record ... 80s pop production and highlife rhythms lead Hayley Williams’s powerhouse vocals to unexpectedly fun heights.
Read the full review
The most robust album yet from Mike Hadreas, as echoing strings, distorted noise and his own voice – lilting with an elegant touch of vibrato – cohere around grand and somewhat gothic songwriting.
What we said: The tunes are so uniformly fantastic that it’s easy to overlook the rich seam of strangeness that runs through the album’s sound ... a unique talent coming into full bloom.
Read the full review
2017 has seen more solo female pop stars than ever before, but Pixx cut through the noise with an authoritative, futurist LP that took in motorik guitars and PC Music-style gloss on the way to an electropop classic.
What we said: A riveting and refreshing debut, which balances weirdness with sweet and soothing electropop joy.
Read the full review
His debut album may have come years after his first tracks, as he paused to collaborate with everyone from Drake to both Knowles sisters, but it was worth the wait: a digital soul record given tremendous emotional power by his keenly hurt voice.
What we said: Nothing feels in thrall to current trends in R&B, either sonically or emotionally ... a weighty, powerful album with an identity entirely of its own.
Read the full review
The year’s most impressive prog album blended Sjöblom’s soulful vocals with intricate and cosmically meandering guitar lines. But it crucially doesn’t go on a quest up inside itself, instead retaining a universal pop sensibility.
Aided by some gorgeously pensive piano motifs from David Virelles, Polish trumpeter Tomasz Stańko is given space to create a stunning series of improvisations, from energetic ferreting to dazed melancholia.
What we said: Nobody holds a single, long-blown trumpet note like the Polish pioneer Tomasz Stańko – a wearily exhaled, soberly ironic, yet oddly awestruck sound that is unique in jazz ... an exquisite exercise in haunting tone-poetry, occasionally pierced by urgent avant-swing.
Read the full review
The one-time Odd Future DJ and bandleader of The Internet stepped out on her own for this sensual set, where she weaved breathy yet steely vocal lines through minimalist trap atmospheres.
What we said: As hinted at by the record sleeve’s oceanic shadows, Fin has depths that only become more apparent the longer you spend engulfed in them.
Read the full review
The virtuosic bassist created his best-loved album yet, recruiting everyone from soft rock legends Kenny Loggins and Michael McDonald to rappers Wiz Khalifa and Pharrell Williams, for funk songs that zipped around the stars.
What we said: Takes you down a rabbit hole and turfs you out in his lopsided wonderland of funk, soul, hip-hop and soft rock... an eccentric, surreal and oddly hypnotic listen.
Read the full review
After grime’s belated ascendance to global attention over the last couple of years, its enigmatic originator reminded everyone that he is still one of the best, deploying his pinpoint-accurate flow over everything from club bangers to soulful tales of woman trouble.
What we said: His demeanour on this blockbuster album is of a foreman nodding with satisfaction as he looks across a building site – if they’re not already guesting on it, Wiley is praising his fellow UK MCs almost every other bar.
Read the full review
Selected by Rachel Aroesti, Lanre Bakare, Ben Beaumont-Thomas, John Fordham, Harriet Gibsone, Kate Hutchinson, Tim Jonze, Dom Lawson and Alexis Petridis.
In 2013, Hayao Miyazaki faced a packed press conference. He said: “I’m really serious this time … My era of animation is over.” Could it be true? The 76-year-old film-maker, creator of cherished classics from My Neighbour Totoro to Spirited Away, is virtually a living god in his native Japan. Had his career come to an end? Actually, no, it hadn’t. As he has done many times before, Miyazaki came back out of retirement this year and is working on a new movie. But still, the end of the Miyazaki era is surely drawing closer.
Miyazaki’s position in the anime world could be likened to one of the giant, ancient trees he likes to include in his movies. He is the heart of the enchanted forest, the centre of the ecosystem, and Studio Ghibli, the company he cofounded, is overwhelmingly dependent on his output. Miyazaki’s movies have generated household-name characters, merchandisable properties and enormous domestic box office: he has directed five of the top 10 highest-grossing Japanese films of all time.
With Miyazaki’s departure, though, some of the saplings on the forest floor now have a chance to grow. In fact, the whole forest is growing. Despite being expensive, labour-intensive and notoriously badly paid, the anime industry is booming. According to the Association of Japanese Animations’ 2016 report, it has grown consistently over the past six years, and in every way: revenues are higher than ever, more titles are being released, and overseas markets are growing. In 2015, the market as a whole brought in 1,826bn yen (£12.5bn).
And it is no longer just about family animation; the teen and young adult-oriented “late night” sector is also on the rise. In the UK, we can look forward to releases such as futuristic fantasy Napping Princess, or the enticingly titled sci-fi Genocidal Organ. But the movie that has come to symbolise the current boom is Your Name, directed by Makoto Shinkai. Your Name is nothing like a Studio Ghibli movie; it is a poignant teen romance that smoothly incorporates elements of sci-fi, gender-swap comedy and natural-disaster movie. Visually, too, it has a modern-day sheen, all sunsets and lens flares and colour fades – nothing like Ghibli’s colourful, hand-drawn style.
The movie has struck a chord in Japan, perhaps in the aftermath of the 2011 earthquake and tsunami. Your Name has been a phenomenon. It was by far the highest grossing movie of 2016, taking three times more than its nearest rival. It is now second only to Miyazaki’s Spirited Away in Japan’s all-time list. Shinkai, who came into animation via computer games, was as surprised as anyone by the movie’s success. But the 44-year-old director has modestly played down the inevitable Miyazaki comparisons. “Miyazaki is a genius, he is the legend,” Shinkai said in an interview with the Guardian last year. “You don’t want to be imitating his style. Every anime-maker is thinking: ‘I can’t be too like Miyazaki.’”
Another anime tack can be seen in In This Corner of the World, which goes on release in the UK this week, and beat Your Name to win the Japanese Academy’s best-animation award last year. Following a teenage bride during the second world war, it is more like a thoroughly researched, scrupulously authentic historical drama that happens to be animated. “Normally, we imagine things that don’t exist; here I wanted to imagine what no longer exists,” says director Sunao Katabuchi. “I think it’s nonsense that just because a film is animated, it should automatically be a family or kids’ film. Animation as a method makes all sorts of things possible, and is a tool for film-makers to tackle any genre.”
All the same, there are plenty of film-makers seeking to fill the Miyazaki-shaped gap. Like Mamoru Hosoda, whose films such as Summer Wars and The Girl Who Leapt Through Time have displayed a similar mix of adventurous fantasy grounded in emotional reality. Hosoda’s latest film, The Boy and the Beast, a lively tale with echoes of The Jungle Book and The Karate Kid, is his biggest hit to date. In a recent interview, he spoke of Miyazaki’s “retirement” as an opportunity: “There were a lot of people who said, ‘Oh, Japanese animation is finished’, but if you look at it more objectively, it could be the birth of a new industry.”
Ghibli’s attempts to groom its own Miyazaki successor have not gone well, however. Miyazaki cofounded Ghibli in 1985 with producer Toshio Suzuki and fellow animator Isao Takahata, (whose films include Grave of the Fireflies and The Tale of Princess Kaguya) in emulation of the old-school studio system they grew up in. In contrast to the freelance-based anime industry, they hired full-time employees and built their own utopian workplace. But they are not getting any younger: Takahata is 82, Suzuki nearly 70. Ghibli’s long-adopted policy is that it “does not take any interviews or comment about the future of the studios”, but that’s the main topic of discussion.
“Ghibli has always been a fairly arcane secret society in some ways,” says anime expert Helen McCarthy. “It’s very rare that they speak about why or how things are done there, particularly when it comes to personnel changes.” McCarthy describes Miyazaki as “at heart an old-fashioned patriarchal socialist. He and Jeremy Corbyn would get on well. He believes in being decent to people. He believes that the community comes before the individual. He believes that people should get a decent day’s pay and a bit of security. So this time, when you think about it, must be intensely painful for him.”
Ghibli’s original protege was Yoshifumi Kondō, director of 1995 schoolgirl tale Whisper of the Heart, but he died of an aneurysm in 1998, aged 47. Overwork was cited as a cause, which doubtless gave Miyazaki pause for thought. Hosoda was once a candidate. He was brought in to direct Howl’s Moving Castle in 2004 but left the project citing creative differences; and Miyazaki stepped in to direct it himself. Katabuchi also worked with Miyazaki at one stage, as assistant director on Kiki’s Delivery Service.
Another contender was Hiromasa Yonebayashi, who rose through the Ghibli ranks to direct 2010’s acclaimed The Secret World of Arrietty and 2014’s Oscar-nominated When Marnie Was There. But with Miyazaki retiring, and no more projects on the drawing board, Yonebayashi and a team of Ghibli animators jumped ship and set up their own animation house, Studio Ponoc. Their first feature, Mary and the Witch’s Flower, is due for release this summer. It looks like a Ghibli movie in all but name: a magical fantasy with a female heroine, adapted from a European children’s book (Mary Stewart’s The Little Broomstick), and rendered in vibrant, detailed, hand-drawn animation. The trailer even suggests “the magic returns”.
A more recent, if less promising, heir was Miyazaki’s son, Gorō. He initially trained as a landscape architect, avoiding his father’s shadow, but he was persuaded to direct 2006’s Tales from Earthsea and its follow-up, From Up on Poppy Hill (with the Ghibli elders looking over his shoulder). Despite having recently overseen a Ghibli TV series, Ronja the Robber’s Daughter, Gorō is, by his own admission, a reluctant caretaker. “I can’t copy my dad’s process of having his own studio, coming up with his own stories, then planning them from scratch and making a finished film,” he said in 2014.
Studio Ghibli did put out a new animated feature of its own last year: The Red Turtle, a beautifully minimal, dialogue-free parable with echoes of Robinson Crusoe. It was something of an anomaly, however: it was directed by Michaël Dudok de Wit, an Anglo-Dutch animator, and it was essentially a European production. It was also nine years in the making. Studio Ghibli approached Dudok de Wit out of the blue, he says, having sensed a compatibility from his short films, such as the Oscar-winning Father and Daughter. He is full of admiration for Ghibli. “They were embarrassingly respectful of the director’s role. They are giants, and I was making my first film, but they had so much trust in me and so wanted me to find my voice. Whenever they had suggestions, they always finished by saying: ‘But you are the director. You decide.’”
Dudok de Wit worked most closely with Takahata, but he did meet Miyazaki a few times, which he describes as “the peak experience of my life. He is really, really special. The imagination he has and the emotions he conveys – it is not a coincidence that he is so successful here and over there.”
For now, in reputation at least, Miyazaki still towers over his rivals. His next movie, due in 2020, is based on a 12-minute short he made last year called Boro the Caterpillar. In a radical departure, it sees him working in computer animation, but it still looks like a Miyazaki movie, says Dudok de Wit, who has seen some footage. “It very much has his charm.”
So Studio Ghibli is hiring staff again and its future is safe for a little longer, although Miyazaki’s return could be less to do with commercial concerns than his simple inability to stop working. Even during his supposed retirement Miyazaki apparently came to the studio every day. “I think it has a little bit to do with our profession,” observes Dudok de Wit. “It’s killing us. It’s ridiculously hard work, not for a week, not for a month but for years. And at the end the person feels like, ‘Well, I’m glad I did it, but enough is enough; I can’t face another film.’ And then the person gets rested, and gets restless because there’s a new story simmering in their mind, and then they go back to the old addiction.”
In This Corner of the World is out now, The Boy and the Beast on 7 July, Genocidal Organ on 12 July, Napping Princess on 16 August, and Your Name is reissued on 23 August.
Confrontational comic Frankie will be joined by regulars Katherine Ryan and Sara Pascoe plus a couple of as-yet-unnamed guests as he continues to explore, in his customarily barbed style, the bewildering election aftermath. Conversation and poetic monologues (witness Boyle’s takedown of May the other week) will revolve round the continuing nightmare that is Brexit, and whatever other horrific flashpoints spring up in between. Ali Catterall
In the first in a new series, we meet Debi and Bob, millionaires from Kent with the 13 most spoilt dogs in the land, who roam their four-acre estate as if they own the place. Two of them, teacup chihuahua Honey and chihuahua-cross Joey, are even getting married, in a lavish ceremony costing £4000. Meanwhile, dog portrait artist Robert Clarke has a prestigious client list, and his work comes with a celebrity price tag too, at five grand a pop. Ben Arnold
This truly excellent series plumbs new heights (or depths) of logical surrealism as Arthur invites Michael to a “soupover”. This involves pyjamas, although it takes place in the afternoon, and numerous rituals including watching VHS tapes of black-and-white horse races from yesteryear. Rory Kinnear draws on all his Royal Shakespeare Company training to do justice to the horror of it all. David Stubbs
More amiable schedule-filler from various stages of Kay’s career, built this week round a chaotic interview on Irish TV, standup about schooldays (“When you were sick, they used to put sawdust down. What were all that about?”) Best of all is the Phoenix Nights finale where the club staff have to become the acts in a Stars in Your Eyes evening. Plus, a magical clip of Kay and Sian Gibson helpless with laughter in a scene from Car Share. Jack Seale
Futuristic zone or not, what has been most striking about the return of the Crystal Maze is how defiantly retro it feels, with chunky props and puzzle rooms that look bodged together in a way that evokes its homemade 1990s heyday. This week, Jodie Kidd, Steve Jones, Scarlett Moffatt, David Coulthard and Joey Essex are the familiar faces running the gauntlet for charity, with prickly host Richard Ayoade spurring them on. Graeme Virtue
There’s something comforting about Sky 1’s pleasant dramedy, which is returning for a stand-alone finale. Sally Lindsay holds the whole thing together as Lisa, while the ensemble cast including Paula Wilcox and Samantha Womack buzz around. Now Lisa’s been offered a job in Milton Keynes, will she leave her friends and her business behind? Meanwhile, her mother-in-law Pauline is tempted to revisit the past when old rocker Callum rolls into town. Hannah Verdier
Debut of a fundamentally daft but hugely enjoyable high-octane American vehicle makeover series. The conceit is that every week Pennsylvania custom carmaker Kenny Hauk and his team of mechanics attempt to rise to some or other entrancingly recherche design challenge. In tonight’s episode, to an inevitable soundtrack of heavy metal riffola, the principal project is a second world war-themed off-road vehicle boasting characteristics of a Jeep and a B-25 bomber. Andrew Mueller
The Odessa File (Ronald Neame, 1974) 4.05pm, Film4 This adaptation of Frederick Forsyth’s novel about Nazi-hunting in 1960s Berlin might not have the violent thrills of John Schlesinger’s similar Marathon Man, but is an intricate, suspenseful tale nevertheless. A hard-faced Jon Voight is the investigative journalist who infiltrates the Odessa, a gang of former SS members, while on the trail of Maximilian Schell’s war criminal.
Speedway: European Championship 6pm, Eurosport 2 Coverage of the opening round of the campaign from Poland.
Super League Rugby 7.30pm, Sky Sports 2 Coverage of an as-yet-undecided game.
European Under-21s Championship Football; The Final 7.30pm, Sky Sports 1The winners are crowned at Marshal Jozef Pilsudski Stadium in Poland.
I have a child who has expressed an interest in becoming a bus driver. I’m not going to encourage it. Not because I have anything against driving buses as a profession (though I’m not crazy about his chosen route, the 226 between Golders Green and Ealing Broadway – would one that passes through central London not be more glamorous, as well as being more double-decker?) No, my problem with it is that by the time he reaches bus-driving age, it probably won’t be a profession any more. He’s only three you see. It’s an issue that arises in Horizon: Dawn of the Driverless Car (BBC2) – the impact autonomous vehicles are going to have on employment. The future may be safer, and greener, but there will also be fewer jobs. Bus drivers, truck drivers, delivery drivers – all the drivers. Think of poor Jeremy Clarkson, what’s he going to do? Actually, don’t think of Jeremy Clarkson. And driverless cars obviously can’t come soon enough for Richard Hammond, the one who keeps crashing.
They – that lot – get a nod, incidentally. A company called FiveAI “aims to turn this reasonably priced electric car into the star of the driverless world,” says Sara Pascoe, narrating. AI refers to artificial intelligence, of course, five to the top level of driverless autonomy, whereby the vehicle can drive anywhere without any kind of human intervention. That’s where FiveAI, and everyone else (Google, Apple, Tesla, Ford, Volvo etc) are trying to get to.
Right now they are just about at level three, meaning a car can do everything but a human driver must be present to take over in emergencies. There’s an interesting problem with level-three autonomy, and that is paying attention when the machine is in control. Human minds tend to wander, get distracted, or shut down. “The idea of autonomous cars is really, really exciting,” says Wendy Ju of Stanford University. “So it’s ironic that the reality of being in an autonomous car ... is really, really boring.”
So if the human is suddenly called on to step in during an emergency, they’re probably not up to it. Especially if they’re on the way home from the pub with nine pints of Stella sloshing around inside them.
Interestingly – possibly even ironically – I had a couple of little level three moments watching this programme. Not nine pints, but mind-wandering. It’s an excellent documentary that very thoroughly covers everything – the science, the combination of lidar, radar and satnav that makes these machines work, where it’s all at now, where it’s going. Plus the AI, and the implications for our lives, our cities, our jobs. It aso touches on ethical issues, like what happens when an accident is unavoidable and the car has to decide what – or who – to crash into. And there are contributions from all the right people – scientists, designers, test drivers, an admirable percentage (over 50) of whom are women. No one’s going to give this Horizon the dumb-down thumbs-down.
And yet I did wander, a bit. Maybe it says more about me (it was the same with science at school). Maybe it’s because there is no presenter to engage with (Pascoe is only here in voice). That is ironic isn’t it, that I might have felt more comfortable with a human presence to steer me through the science?
Still I wasn’t wandering far, and it was at least related. I was just wondering how all of this would affect the dreams of a three-year-old hoping for the 226 bus route. Quite badly I think; it pretty much shatters them.
When he’s a bit older we’ll obviously be encouraging him to go on Naked Attraction (Channel 4). That’s what the mother of 21-year-old Dom did. Go on son, you’re single, why don’t you go on the telly, have a look at some fannies, see if there’s anything that takes your fancy. Dom picks Tamara’s – and the rest of her to be fair – though he gets to meet her down there first.
Next up Lizzy, who is pansexual. So she’s given a choice of willies and fannies to choose from. Sounds more interesting? Hmm, not much. Because the truth is, once you’ve had your little tee-hee about naked people on the telly, it’s just awkward and boring. On television, anyway, fannies and willies are less interesting than the people attached to them, and we’re not finding out anything about this lot. Call me square but I like it the old-fashioned way – the people first, then their bits. Take me back to Love Island. Actually, that would make me proud, if a child of mine were to get on there one day. That’s something to strive for.
‘It’s the most fucking ridiculous story, isn’t it? We went to watch fucking dolphins, and we ended up in fucking Syria.” Last summer in the Mediterranean party resort of Ayia Napa, Lewis Ellis was working as a club rep. “I mean, it was fucking 8am,” he told an Australian website soon afterwards, “and the last fucking club had closed, and we thought, We can still go dolphin watching. We’ll blag our way on to a fucking boat and go dolphin watching.”
But when the boat sailed so far that Cyprus disappeared from view, Ellis explained, they started to worry. “Why are we so far from land?” they asked the crew. “We’re fucking miles away and we’ve got no fucking wifi.” Something, Ellis said, had been lost in translation; his exuberant season as a shepherd for the resort’s party pilgrims had gone terribly awry. The crew wasn’t taking them to watch dolphins: they were going to a Russian naval base in the city of Tartus, on Syria’s Mediterranean coast. Yeah, it is a little ridiculous.
It was, nonetheless, a story that had legs. “Hungover lads’ boat trip boob lands them in Syria,” wahey-ed the Mirror; “British holidaymakers board ‘party boat’ in Ayia Napa – and end up in war-torn SYRIA,” guffawed the Express. If you saw these headlines at the time, you may dimly remember the rest. A stubborn trawler captain, chugging doggedly onwards to Tartus, where he turfed the friends out upon landing; interrogation at the hands of Russian intelligence officers; mutual hilarity as the Russians realised what had happened; and, after a hot meal, a quick tour of the area, and a good night’s sleep, spots on the next fishing vessel headed back to Cyprus. It was never made clear why the captain had let them on the boat in the first place, but whatever. Everyone lapped it up.
Reflecting on the whole thing five months later, Ellis, a 26-year-old with a business degree and a marketing masters, couldn’t totally wrap his head around it. “I think I found 35 stories about us,” he told me. “I read about myself in the Hawaiian Express, do you know what I mean?” (Notwithstanding that there doesn’t appear to be any such newspaper, yes, I definitely do.)
What made it really weird to see the media pile in with such unstinting enthusiasm was that the story was total cobblers. “I could not believe how gullible they were,” Ellis said, a top note of glee still in his voice. “We were just having a laugh! It was banter!”
Lads: this is the age of banter. It’s long been somewhat about the banter, but over the last few years, it has come to seem that it’s all about the banter – an unabashedly bumptious attitude that took up a position on the outskirts of the culture in the early 90s and has been larging its way towards the centre ever since. There are hundreds of banter groups on Facebook, from Banter Britain (“no memes insinuating child abuse/dead babies!!!”) to Wanker Banter 18+ (“Have a laugh and keep it sick”) to the Premier League Banter Page (“The only rule: keep it banter”). You can buy an “I ♥ banter” mug on Amazon for £9, or an Archbishop of Banterbury T-shirt for £9.99.
There are now four branches of a restaurant called Scoff & Banter. When things were going badly at Chelsea FC under José Mourinho, it was reported the team had “banned all banter” in an attempt to focus their minds, and that terminology appeared in the newspapers, as if you would know exactly what it meant. Someone has created a banter map of London using a keyword search on the flatshare website SpareRoom, showing exactly where people are looking for a roommate with good banter (Clapham tends to feature prominently). When a 26-year-old man from Leeds posed for a selfie with a bemused aeroplane hijacker, Vice declared it “the high-water mark of banter”.
If you are younger than about 35, you are likely to hear the term all the time. Either you have banter (if you are funny and can take a joke) or you don’t (if you aren’t and cannot). The mainstream, in summary, is now drunk and asleep on the sofa, and banter is delightedly drawing a penis on its forehead.
As banter has risen, it has expanded. Long a word used to describe submerged expressions of fraternal love, it is now also a word used to excuse uninhibited displays of masculine bravado. Today, it is segregated by class, seized on by brands, picked over by psychologists, and deplored by cultural critics; it is dominant, hotly contested and only hazily understood.
And so, whether he intends it to or not, Ellis’ use of the term raises some questions. Is he throwing his lot in with the most pervasive branch of the blokeish mainstream, a sanitised and benevolent hilarity that stretches from lad-dad panel shows to your mate’s zinger about your terrible haircut? Or is he lining up with the misogynist imitators of the Bullingdon club, a sprinkling of racists, and, as we shall see, an actual murderer – purveyors of a malicious and insidious masculinity that insists on its indivisible authority and calls you a slut if you object?
Ellis isn’t preoccupied by these questions, but for what it’s worth, he does say that he and his friends never had the slightest intention of going to Syria. “We weren’t really trying to fool anyone,” he told me, although I’m not sure that’s entirely consistent with the facts. “We were out for a stroll, and we came across this area that looked really run down, we thought it looked like Syria. So we put it on the club reps’ [Facebook] page that that’s where we were. And everyone started liking it. And then one of the people who contacted us was from LADBible” – which is like the Bible, but for LADS – “so we said, we’ll have a mess around here. We’ll tell a completely ridiculous story, see if the media believes it. See if we can become LADBible famous.”
It did, they could. Eventually, the truth came out, not thanks to any especially determined investigative journalism, but because Ellis cheerily admitted on Facebook that his tale of magnificent idiocy was a fiction. “Hahaha what a prank,” he wrote, with some justification.
The confession only brought another cycle of attention. Publications that had picked up the story in the first place resurfaced it with new headlines to reflect the audacity of the invention; social media users adduced it as evidence for their views of young men, or the media, or both. The Russian embassy’s Twitter account called it “a telling example of how many Syria (and Russia) stories are made up by UK papers”, which was great geopolitical banter. The attention entertained Ellis, but he says it wasn’t the point. “We just thought it was funny,” he said. “People are too serious. I keep being told to grow up, but I still want to have a good time. I’ve had the jobs, I’ve got the education. But when I’m off work, I want to escape.”
Ellis is an enthusiast and an optimist. He is, he told me late last year, “desperate to take every opportunity, just to say yes to everything I can.” We were on a night out in Manchester with his friends Tyson, John and Chris. In the course of the evening, the following things found their way into my beer: fingers; salt; vinegar; mayonnaise; a chip; saliva; a £10 note; and, I hazily remember being told after the fact, at least two shots of vodka.
“Everyone’s got a thing in the group,” Ellis said, as we walked from one bar to the next. “One guy, he’s not even that ugly, we say he looks like a Peperami. Tyson’s got this mole on his face, it’s like a Coco Pop, so you’ve got a Coco Pop on your face. I looked like Harry Potter when I was a kid, so they call me Potter, that’s my nickname. Every single one of us has something. So you – you’ve got Chinese eyes. You’re Chinese.”
For the record, I didn’t think this was OK, but coming after such a harmless litany, it didn’t seem malicious enough to confront. Of course, tacit endorsement is what makes such offensive epithets a commonplace, and so it troubles me that it made me feel mysteriously welcome, just as it had when John punched me lightly in the balls when I arrived. There was no doubting Ellis’s sincerity: as he spoke, the sheer daft beauty of male friendship seemed to amaze him, almost to the point of physical pain. “We just take the piss out of each other, and that’s how we show our love,” he said. “So many group chats on the phone, and you just take the piss until they cry. And it’s like, when you’re really killing them, you go, I’ll stop if you want, because you know they can’t say yes, so you just keep going.” Then we arrived at the next bar, where I was made to drink something called a Zombie.
Early in the evening, before any of this had undermined my ability to take useful notes, Ellis broke off from talking as we walked down the street and sidled into a window display at Next Home, where he Tracey Emined a carefully made bed by climbing into it and rolling around. Everyone cracked up. Give the world a laugh, Ellis tends to think, and the world will smile back at you. Jump on a boat, and you’ll end up somewhere great; make the boat up, and you’ll get there faster. “It’s all about having fun, it’s all about the banter,” he said, after he’d rejoined us outside. “Banter is about making the world a more exciting place.”
If nobody can agree on what banter is, that’s hardly a new problem. The first usage of the word recorded in the Oxford English Dictionary comes from noted Restoration lad Thomas d’Urfey, also known for his hit song The Fart, in a satirical 1677 play called Madam Fickle. “Banter him, banter him, Toby,” a character called Zechiel urges, which may be the first time that someone called Toby was so instructed, but certainly wasn’t the last.
The OED also notes early attempts at a definition by Jonathan Swift and Samuel Johnson. (Swift mentions a “banter upon transubstantiation”, in which a cork is turned into a horse, and fair enough, turning a cork into a horse would be classic banter.) Both are a little disgusted by the word, and neither unearths much of an origin story: by their accounts, banter is so coarse that it emerged, fully formed and without antecedent, out of the mouths of oafs.
As it turns out, though, the OED is not at present fully able to handle the banter. According to Eleanor Maier, an associate editor on the dictionary, a search of earlier English texts reveals that a number of previous examples are missing from the dictionary’s definition, which was first drafted in 1885 – including a quote from a 1657 translation of Don Quixote. (After examining the history, Maier told me that she would be adding banter to the list of entries that are up for review.)
Welcome to London #BagelGate pic.twitter.com/KcJoz0ycZU
In recent years, banter has barged into our lives at a remarkable clip. Google’s Ngram Viewer, a tool that assesses (with some limitations) the frequency with which a term appears in a large database of written sources, finds that “banter” popped up about twice as often in 2008, the most recent year covered, as it did in 1980.
But banter plugged away for a long time before it became an overnight success. In the 19th century, it often denoted a kind of formal sparring. Even as the term evolved over the 20th, it continued to seem a little prim. In the House of Commons in 1936, Ramsay MacDonald, the former Labour prime minister who had returned in a new seat after losing his old one, was “subjected to a good deal of banter” – “Dear old Granny MacDonald!”, among other witticisms. In 1981, a Guardian report that chess champion Anatoly Karpov and his handlers had successfully protested at his challenger Viktor Korchnoi’s constant cross-board talk ran under the unlikely headline: “Chess banter banned”.
Such stories do little to prepare us for what banter has become. Consider the viral video that became known as #bagelgate earlier this year. In the recording, a minor scuffle broke out on the 00.54 train from King’s Cross to Huntingdon, and then for no obviously related reason a woman who had a large bag of bagels decided to put one on the head of the guy sitting in front of her, and then another after he took it off and threw it out of the window, and another and another, and then everyone in the carriage started chanting “he’s got a bagel on his head”, and eventually the slightly spoddy victim – who is me when I was 13 and someone filled my pencil case with Mr Kipling apple pies (squashed, oozing) because I was fat – lost it and screamed “Get the fuck out of my face!”, and then another fight broke out on the platform, and then the police got on to the train, and every single person fell into not-me-guv silence: this is not Granny MacDonald’s banter any more.
If it is hard to understand how these activities can fall under the same umbrella, it should be noted that a phenomenon may predate our choice of term to describe it – it’s just that the act of definition makes it more visible, and perhaps more likely to be imitated. At some point, though, banter became the name for what British men already regarded as their natural tone of voice. “There is a very deeply embedded folk culture in the UK of public ribaldry, extreme sarcasm, facetiousness – in other words, of laddishness,” says Tony Thorne, a linguist and cultural historian. “What you might think of as banter now is rooted in that tradition.”
That tradition first lashed itself to banter’s mast in the early 1990s, and controversy soon followed. In June 1992, a Guardian story headlined “Police fire ‘sex banter’ officer”, about the dismissal of a sergeant for sexual harassment, recorded an early skirmish in the modern banter wars, and an important new layer to its meaning in the wild: “The move is seen as part of the Metropolitan police’s desire to reassure women officers that what has previously been tolerated as ‘banter’ is no longer acceptable.” Two years later, the lads’ mags arrived.
The first edition of Loaded magazine appeared in May 1994, with a picture of Gary Oldman on the front smoking a dog-end, under a banner that declared him a super lad. “What fresh lunacy is this?” the editor’s note read. “Loaded is a new magazine dedicated to life, liberty and the pursuit of sex, drink, football and less serious matters … Loaded is for the man who believes he can do anything, if only he wasn’t hungover.”
If banter dismays you, James Brown, the magazine’s first editor, is quite an easy bogeyman. As he acknowledges himself, he “created a title that defined a genre”. Loaded was swiftly recognised as a foundational text for a resurgent and ebullient masculinity that had been searching for public expression. While it was always overtly horny, the magazine was initially more interested in a forlorn, slackjawed and self-ironising appreciation of A-listers (one reversible poster had Cindy Crawford on one side and a steam train on the other) than the grot-plus-football formula that successors and imitators like Maxim, Zoo and Nuts milked to destruction. But it also flirted with something murkier.
To its critics, Loaded and its imitators aimed to sanitise a certain hooliganistic worldview with a strategic disclaimer. “Banter emerges as this relentless gloss of irony over everything,” said Bethan Benwell, senior lecturer in language and linguistics at the University of Stirling and the author of several papers on men’s magazines. “The constant excusing of sexist or homophobic sentiments with this wink that says you don’t really mean it.” Benwell pointed to Loaded’s emblematic strapline: “For men who should know better.”
Brown denies that his magazine invented banter. Instead, he says, it captured a zeitgeist that the media had previously failed to acknowledge; the folk culture that Tony Thorne refers to, brought out into the open. Before Brown’s intervention, GQ had run John Major and Michael Heseltine as cover stars, for God’s sake. “I took the interests and the outlook of the young men that I knew, and I put them in a magazine,” Brown said. “I’m not responsible for the tone of the later entrants to the market. We were criticised because we fancied women, not because we belittled them.”
“The thing about Loaded was that the way we wrote reflected the way we were with our mates,” he went on. “There’s definitely a thing that exists in the male outlook: you take the piss out of the people you like, and you ignore the people you don’t.”
Accept this as your starting point, and objections become exhausting to sustain: what you’re objecting to is an act of affection. Of course, this is what makes it insidious. Because Brown’s account rests on the intention behind the magazine, and Benwell’s on the effect it had, they are impossible to reconcile. “It’s a very difficult thing to resist or challenge without looking like the stereotypical humourless feminist,” said Benwell. “But by laughing, you become complicit.”
Loaded gave this new kind of banter escape velocity, and it began to colonise other worlds. On BBC2, for example, David Baddiel and Frank Skinner were staking out their own territory with Fantasy Football League, a mixture of sketches and celebrity chat that managed to be enthusiastic and satirical at the same time, and reached its peak when the pair became national icons, thanks to their Euro 96 anthem, Three Lions. While a long-running joke about the Nottingham Forest striker Jason Lee’s “pineapple” haircut seems flatly racist in retrospect – Baddiel did an impression of him in blackface – by and large, the tone was milder and more conventional than the magazines were: this was the sensibility of the university graduate slumming it before embarking on grown-up life.
Baddiel implied that laddism could easily occupy a spectrum from ogling to literature, drawing a line to Nick Hornby’s memoir of life as an Arsenal fan, Fever Pitch. “Hornby once said to me that all this stuff – you know, fantasy football and his book – is men talking about things that they like and for a while in the mid-80s they weren’t allowed to,” he said in 1995. “I’ve always liked football and I’ve always liked naked women, and it’s easier to talk about that now than it was eight years ago.” Those comments reflect a kind of sneer at its critics that you could often detect in Fantasy Football League, even as its hosts protested that they were just having a laugh – though Baddiel himself denies that view. Twenty years on, he, like Brown, is at pains to draw a line between the approach that he and Skinner popularised, and the forms that came later. “I guess me and Frank did specialise in banter,” he said in an email. “In a time before it was known as ‘bantz’.”
Over the next 10 years, two things happened that ushered in the age of banter. (You might call it mature banter, except that it’s also the opposite.) First, instead of just being a thing that happened, it became a thing that people talked about. Then, as it became a more tangible cultural product, everyone started trying to make money out of it. The watershed moment, the form’s equivalent to Dylan going electric, was the invention of Dave.
Like most good ideas, it looks simple enough in retrospect. Before Dave was Dave, it was UKTV Gold 2. The predecessor channel’s audience share was 0.761%, and no one could tell who on earth it was supposed to be for. “But we had the content,” says Steve North, the channel’s brand manager in 2007 – and content of a particular kind that the existing name did very little to communicate: Have I Got News for You, They Think It’s All Over, Top Gear. “Viewers said they loved the repartee, the humour. It reminded them of spending time with their funniest friends.”
The target audience was highly specific. “It was men – married or in relationships, maybe with young children, not going to the pub as much as they used to,” says Andy Bryant, managing director of Red Bee, the agency brought in to work on the rebrand. “And they missed that camaraderie.”
Their purpose thus fixed, North started to run brainstorming sessions at which people would shout out suggestions for the name. “One of the ones we collected was Dave,” he says. “We thought, great, but we can’t call it that. But then we thought, ‘It’s a surrogate friend. If the audience really sees it as that, if they see it as genuinely providing the banter, maybe we can really give it a name.’”
They put their hunch through its paces. The market research company YouGov was commissioned to test “Dave” alongside a bunch of other names (Matthew and Kevin were also on the shortlist), but nothing else had the same everyman resonance. “For us, Dave is a sensibility, a place, an emotion, a feeling,” said North, his tone thoughtful, almost gnomic. “Everyone has their own sense of who Dave is, that’s the important thing. It’s hard to find anyone who doesn’t know someone called Dave.”
Now the channel had a brand, it needed a slogan. “Lots of people claim they played a part in the naming,” says Bryant. “But it was just as important to encapsulate what the channel was all about. And at some point someone, I don’t know who, wrote it on a board: ‘The home of witty banter.’” The rebrand added 8m new viewers in six months; Dave saw a 71% increase in its target audience of affluent young men.
Conceived by the first generation of senior professionals to have grown up with banter as an unremarkable part of their demographic’s cultural mix, the channel crystallised a change, and accelerated it. In 2006, The Ricky Gervais Show, in which Gervais and Stephen Merchant relentlessly poked fun at their in-house idiot savant Karl Pilkington, became the most popular podcast of all time. In 2007, the year of Dave’s rebrand, Top Gear’s ratings shot from below 5m to a record high of 8m. The following year, QI moved from BBC4 to BBC2. (A tie-in book published the same year, QI: Advanced Banter, sold more than 125,000 copies.)
North saw the kind of fraternal teasing that was being monetised by his channel, and the panel shows that were its lifeblood, as fundamentally benign. “The key thing is that it’s two-way,” he said. “It’s about two people riffing off each other.”
But like his 20th-century forebears, he can see that something ugly has evolved, and he wants to keep his brand well away from it. “‘Bants’,” he said with distaste. “That thing of cover for dubious behaviour – we hate and despise it massively. When we launched, it was about fun, being light-hearted, maybe pushing each other without being disrespectful. When people talk about ‘I’ve had a go at that person, great banter’ – no, that’s just nasty.”
By the turn of the decade, as other branding agencies mimicked the success of Dave, banter was everywhere, a folk tradition that had acquired a peculiar sort of respectability. The men who celebrated it weren’t just lads in the pub any more: they had spending power and establishment allies on their side. But they were, by the same token, more visible to critics. Aggression from an underdog can be overlooked; aggression from the establishment is serious enough to become a matter of public concern.
Take Richard Keys and Andy Gray, Sky Sports’ brand-defining football presenters, who got themselves up to their necks in some extremely bad banter in 2011. Keys blamed “dark forces”, but everyone else blamed him and Gray for being misogynists. We knew this because there was footage.
The “firestorm”, as Keys called it, centred on claims that the two men had said and done heinously sexist things off-air. Most memorable, at least for its phrase-making, was the clip in which Keys eagerly asked his fellow pundit Jamie Redknapp if he’d “smashed it” – it being a woman – and asserted that he could often be found “hanging out the back of it”.
Gray went quickly. In the days before he followed, Keys burned hot with injustice in a series of mea-sorta-culpas, particularly focused on the tape in which he expressed his derision at the idea that a woman, Sian Massey-Ellis, could be an assistant referee in the Premier League.
It was just banter, he said. Or, more exactly, “just a bit of banter,” as he said Massey-Ellis had assured him she understood in a later telephone conversation – in which, he added, “much banter passed between us”. “She and I enjoyed some banter,” he protested. “It was lads’-mag banter,” he insisted. “It was stone-age banter,” he admitted. “We liked to have banter,” he explained. Richard Keys was sorry if you were offended, but also, it wasn’t his fault if you didn’t get it. It was just banter, for goodness’ sake!
Keys’ insistence that his mistake was simply a failure to move with the times was nothing new: banter has always seemed to carry a longing for the past, for an imagined era before male friendship was so cramped by the tiresome obligations of feminist scrutiny. But while his underlying views were painfully dated, his conception of banter was entirely modern: a sly expansion of the word’s meaning, and a self-conscious contention that it provided an impregnable defence.
The Keys variation understood banter, first, as a catch-all means of denying responsibility if anyone was hurt; and, second, as a means of reinforcing a bond between two people by being cruel about a third. The comparison wouldn’t please a couple of alphas like Keys and Gray, but both strategies brought it closer to a style of communication with classically feminine associations: gossip. Deborah Cameron, the Rupert Murdoch (lol) Professor in Language and Communication at Oxford University, argues that the two modes of interaction follow basically the same structure. “People gossip as a trust game,” she said. “You tell someone your unsayable private secret, and it bonds you closer together. They’re supposed to reciprocate with a confidence of their own. Well, banter works in the same way now. You say something outrageous, and you see if the other person dares to top your remark.”
The trust game in banter was traditionally supposed to be: do you trust me when I say we’re friends in spite of the mean things I’m saying about you? But now there’s a second version of the game: do I trust you not to tell anyone the mean things I’m saying about other people? “I think originally it was a harmless thing,” said Cameron, whose analysis is rooted in an archive of male group conversation, mostly recorded by her students, that goes back to the 1980s. “But then it started to be used as an excuse when men were caught out engaging in forms of it that weren’t so harmless.”
“It comes down to context and intent,” says the comedian Bridget Christie. The gentler form of banter is still knocking around, she suggested, but now it exists alongside something darker: “I found The Inbetweeners’ adolescent banter hilarious, because it was equal and unthreatening. But there is obviously a world of difference between a group of teenage boys benignly taking the piss out of each other, and a bigot being racist or misogynist and trying to pass it off as a joke.”
Trace the rise of banter, and you will find that it corresponds to the rise of political correctness – or, anyway, to the backlash against “political correctness gone mad”. That phrase and “just banter” mirror each other perfectly: one denoting a priggish culture that is deemed to have overreached, the other a laid-back culture that is deemed to have been unfairly reined in. Ironically enough, “just banter” does exactly what it accuses political correctness of, seeking to close down discussion by telling you that meaning is settled by category rather than content. Political correctness asserts that a racist joke is primarily racist, whereas banter asserts that a racist joke is primarily a joke. In the past, the men who used it rarely had to define it, or to explain themselves to anybody else. Today, in contrast, it is named all the time. “The biggest change isn’t the banter itself,” says Bethan Benwell. “It’s the explicit use of the word as a disclaimer.”
By sheer repetition and by its use as an unanswerable defence, banter has turned from an abstraction into a vast and calcified description of actions as well as words: gone from a way of talking to a way of life, a style that accidentally became a worldview. “He bantered you,” people sometimes say: you always used to banter with your mates, but now it often sounds like something you do to them. “Once it was directionless, inconclusive chatter with wit as the engine that drove it,” said the comedian Russell Kane. “Now, if I trip you up, that’s banter.”
You might think the humiliation suffered by Keys and Gray would have made banter less appealing as a get-out, but not a bit of it. Banter, increasingly, seems like the first refuge of the inexcusable. In 2014, Malky Mackay, who had been fired as manager of Cardiff City Football Club a year earlier, was caught having sent texts that referred to Chinese people eating dogs, black people being criminals, Jewish people being avaricious, and gay people being snakes – all of which were initially optimistically defended by the League Managers Association as “letting off steam to a friend during some friendly text message banter”. The comedian Dapper Laughs, whose real name is Daniel O’Reilly, established himself as banter’s rat king, with his very own ITV2 show, and then lost it after he suggested that an audience member at one of his gigs was “gagging for a rape”. A man was convicted of murder after he crushed his friend against a wall with a Jeep Cherokee after an argument over badger-baiting, a course of action that he said had been intended as banter. Another slashed the throat of someone he had met in a pub and described the incident as a moment of banter after 14 or 15 pints. Both are now in prison.
By any sane measure, banter was falling into disrepute, as often a disguise for malice as a word for the ribaldry of lads on the lash. Still it did not go away: instead, the worst of it has mutated again, asserting its authority in public and saving its creepiest tendencies for the shadows – or, at least, for the company of five, or 10, or 20 of your closest mates.
At the London School of Economics, it started with a leaflet. Each year at the university’s freshers’ fair, LSE Rugby Football Club distributed a banterous primer on rugby culture. In October 2014, says the then-president of the student union, Nona Buckley-Irvine, a student came to her in tears with a copy in her hand. The leaflet talked about “trollops”, “slags”, “crumpet”, “mingers”, and the desirability of misogyny; there were passing references to the horrors of “homosexual humiliation” and “outright homosexual debauchery”. Anyone charmed by all this was invited to sign up for the club and join the “banter list”, entitling them to participate in the exchange of “chappish email conversation”.
To anyone with a passing knowledge of university laddism, it was hard to imagine a more ordinary iteration. Still, after the unreconstructed chappishness of the leaflet came to light, the club knew it had a problem. It issued a collective apology acknowledging that “we have a lot to learn about the pernicious effects of banter”, and promised to organise a workshop. But there was reason to be sceptical about the depth of that commitment.
When Buckley-Irvine and her colleagues published a report on the incident, they noted a string of others, including an antisemitic assault on a university ski trip to Val d’Isere in 2011. And there were other indiscretions it didn’t mention. According to two people who were present, one club dinner at an Indian restaurant on Brick Lane ended with a stripper having bottles thrown at her when, already intimidated, she refused to take her clothes off. She hid in the toilet, and had to be escorted out by a member of staff as the team vandalised the restaurant.
According to five people who were either members of the rugby club or closely associated with it, one notorious senior member was widely thought to be responsible for the leaflet. (He did not respond to requests for comment.) But when they came to defend themselves to the student union, members of the club fell back on one of the most revered pillars of laddism: all for one, one for all. “They’d clearly worked out a line,” says Nona Buckley-Irvine. “No one individual was responsible. They were sorry. It was just banter. That’s what they all said.”
The accountancy firm KPMG, which sponsored the university’s wider Athletics Union, decided that banter was not an especially helpful brand association, and withdrew funding worth £22,000. The students’ union decided to disband the club for the academic year. The decision moved some observers to disgust. “It was a gross overreaction,” a former team member told me. “We were the best-behaved team when it came to actually playing rugby – but they banned that bit and they couldn’t ban any of the rest.”
Others took a less measured tone. “I had old members emailing me and calling me a fascist,” says Buckley-Irvine. “Asking me if I didn’t understand that it was just banter.” Rugby players chanted abuse at her on nights out, she told me. They shoulder-barged her, and called her a cunt.
These kinds of interactions would tend to take place on Wednesdays, also known as “sports night”, at a bar in Leicester Square. Sports night was the apotheosis of the rugby club’s bleak solidarity. In deference to what you might call the “wingers-before-mingers” code, for instance, members of the club – who were expected to dress in suits – weren’t allowed to speak to women before 9pm. “So they would just shout abuse instead,” one female former student, who I’ll call Anna, remembered. One chant, she said, went, “Nine nos and a yes is a yes.” At the time, Anna thought that it was all a joke. “People would say, ‘It’s just banter’ all the time. After everything. Absolutely everything,” she said, sitting in a cafe in south London. “If you were meeting someone new, saying they had good banter, that was a pretty high compliment. Whereas if you don’t go along with that stuff, it’s seen as, you can’t take the chat, you can’t take the banter. And it’s not seen as having a stance against it. It’s seen as not being able to keep up.”
After the rugby club was disbanded, nothing much changed in sports night social life. Many members of the club still went on the same nights out; they just colonised other teams. They still addressed girls as “Sarah 2” or “Sarah 8” depending on how attractive they considered them out of 10; they still had shouted conversations about their sex lives in front of the women they had slept with but refused to acknowledge.
That culture was not confined to Wednesday nights. Anna remembers a guy who took her picture as she slept, naked, in the bed they were sharing, and circulated it to another non-university sports team via WhatsApp. She wasn’t meant to see it on his phone.
Ask anyone well-informed where banter resides now, and they’ll give the same answer: WhatsApp groups and email threads, the safe spaces of the lad class. “What you’d get out of those WhatsApp threads, it’s another world of drama,” one former member of the football club said. “The details of girls’ bodies that you’d read, a few funny jibes, that was the limit for me. But when it moved on to, like, really, really bad stuff, always about sex – it was too much. Those threads are the source of everything.”
If the threads were an outlet, they were by no means the limit. Banter, by common consent, wasn’t confined to mocking each other: it was about action. If you dressed up for a night out, one female student remembered, “it was just kind of status quo that you could have your arse grabbed. It was just like, ‘Oh, that was kind of weird, but OK, that’ll happen.’” Like everyone else willing to speak about it, her view of that culture was perplexingly nuanced, sometimes contradictory. “It sounds scary,” she said, “but that being said, some of my best nights were there, and like … it was fun.” But then she said: “What was defined as serious just got so pushed. I think for someone to lodge a complaint they would have to be actually hurt.”
Anna remembers lots of sketchy incidents. She recalls nights when her choices faded into a blur, and she wondered if she had really been in control. “But at the time, I would never call it out,” she said. “And then, you’re all living in halls together, and the next day, it’s like: ‘What did you do last night? That’s hilarious. That’s banter.’”
When Anna thinks about the behaviour of some of the men she knew at university, she finds it hard to pin down exactly what she thinks of them. There’s one in particular who sticks in her mind. “On a Wednesday night, he was a banter guy,” she said. “He was a Wednesday animal. But the rest of the time, he was my friend.”
Controversial though all this was at the time, no one seems to think that it will have cost the perpetrators much. “I’ve tried so hard to leave all that behind,” said the former member of the football team. “But those guys – they’re all going on to run banks, or the country, or whatever.” The senior rugby man who many held responsible, by the way, has landed on his feet. Today, he has a job at KPMG.
In 2017, every new instance of banter is immediately spotted and put through the journalistic wringer. (Vice’s Joel Golby, who wrote the definitive text on the bagel thing, has made a career from his exquisite close readings of the form.) But when each new absolute legend emerges, we don’t usually have the context to make the essential judgment: do the proponents tend towards the harmless warmth of Ellis and his mates, or the frank hostility of the LSE rugby boys? Is their love of irony straightforward, or a mask for something else?
As Richard Keys and Dapper Laughs and their cohorts have polluted the idea of banter, the commercial entities that endorsed its rise have become uneasy with the label. They wanted it to go viral; they hadn’t expected it to go postal. Dave, for example, has dropped the “home of witty banter” slogan. “It’s not about classic male humour any more, it’s a little bit smarter,” says UKTV’s Steve North. “We definitely say it less than we used to.”
The celebrities who rode in on banter are all trying to leave it behind. “It’s just not something we want him to be associated with any more,” an apologetic PR said, one of many to decline an interview request for one of his clients. Frank Skinner, Johnny Vaughan, Denise van Outen, Chris Evans, Chris Moyles, Andrew Flintoff, Richard Keys, Andy Gray, Dapper Laughs, Jimmy Carr, Frankie Boyle and Tim Lovejoy were all, I was told, unavailable for comment.
Well, we can live without Lovejoy. But there is something sad about it, all the same. You cannot help but feel that, as banter has become so toxic that even its most richly rewarded cheerleaders have backed away, something has been lost. As Russell Kane said: “There’s an authenticity to proper banter. It makes both participants happier. We shouldn’t lose that because some dickhead’s taking a shit on the bus.” And yet, at the same time, here we all are, trapped on the banter bus. And there that dickhead is, taking a shit on it.
In Manchester, standing outside a bar at about one in the morning, I wondered whether Ellis would ever do that kind of thing, or worse. I didn’t think so. Then I felt sad that I’d even wondered. “We’re here to make everyone feel good!” he whooped, as a couple he’d never met before walked off laughing and shaking their heads, unconvinced by his attempt to persuade them that he could read minds.
I really had to go to bed. I hugged Tyson, John, and Chris, and then Ellis, who hauled me in and crushed my lungs a little and slapped me on the back. “Don’t make us look like wankers,” he said. “We’re a good bunch really.”
Later, a notification popped up on my phone. Ellis had posted two pictures on Facebook. “Setting him up 😐 😐 😐 ”, read the caption to one, in which I was standing awkwardly next to a bemused-looking woman. In another, I had my arm around John, who had sweetly coached me to stick my head forward for better jaw definition. “Journo has Chinese eyes 👀 😂 😂 ”, Ellis had written. I felt a bit uncomfortable, and touched, and far too embarrassed to say either. I remembered earlier in the evening, when Ellis had put a handful of chips in someone’s Vodka Red Bull. “Do you want me to stop?” he said. “Just tell me if you want me to stop.”
• Follow the Long Read on Twitter at @gdnlongread, or sign up to the long read weekly email here.
• This article was amended on 30 June 2017 to correct a reference to a Facebook post. It read 👀 😂 😂 , not 😂 😂 😂 .
British Conservatism – with both a big and small “c” – is once again feeling the pangs of crisis. Tory optimists might be hanging on to the fact that their party has just scored its highest vote share since 1983; as Brexit grinds uncertainly on, Britain remains in the grip of an avowedly rightwing vision. But the last time a Tory government was elected with a convincing majority was 1987. The UK’s big cities seem more impervious to Conservative politics than ever. The fact that the Tories did so badly among people under the age of 45 – 55% of whom backed Labour, while only 29% voted Conservative – underlines the sense of slowly gathering twilight.
What has happened? Conventional political commentary quite rightly points to the aftershocks of the EU referendum, and younger remain voters being shocked into action. But beneath that immediate development are much deeper factors, bound up with 50 years of cultural change, and millions of people’s embrace of the permissive, live-and-let-live set of values highlighted by this week’s publication of the latest British Social Attitudes Survey.
Moreover, in what the survey said about people’s views of the welfare state and public spending, there was a sense of something equally important: a fuzzy collectivism that stops well short of any kind of hardened socialism, but that defines a whole swath of the country that has not soaked up Thatcherism and its legacy to anything like the extent that the Tories would have liked.
On the face of it, it should not be beyond the wit of modern Conservatives to embrace those shifts. But ingrained Tory instincts seem to always get in the way: the overriding tendency of the party’s individualism to turn cruel and cold; its attachment to moralism and the manipulation of base prejudice; and, in the case of Theresa May, a fusty, back-to-the-1950s spirit that arguably sealed her electoral fate (and is now symbolised by the government’s dependence on the reactionary DUP).
Meanwhile, despite the support for the Tories’ politics from the Mail and the Sun, something much more powerful seems to be driving Britain somewhere else: the onward march of post-Elvis pop culture, and the way it now sits at the heart of a majority of people’s lives, along with a set of values that Conservatism still seems unable to convincingly accommodate.
Clearly, the country we live in is no idyll. Inequality is rampant; racism and bigotry have hardly gone away; there is a coarseness and impatience at the heart of everyday living that was not there 30 years ago. The country that voted for Brexit is hardly at ease with itself. But at the same time, when I think back to my early upbringing in the 1970s – when the second world war was still a conversational commonplace, and my grandparents hung on to an essentially Victorian view of the world – and compare Britain then and now, the sense of a quiet revolution seems pretty much inarguable.
Again, this is less about politics than values. British people are more liberal on such issues as same-sex relationships and abortion than they have ever been. At the last count, one in 10 people in couples in England and Wales were in what the official statistics call an “inter-ethnic relationship”. Cannabis smoke regularly wafts around our town and city centres; Glastonbury is as much a part of the national calendar as Wimbledon or the Grand National. And throughout our waking hours, there is one constant above all others: what the dictionary still calls pop music, probably the most potent means of communication human beings have ever come up with, now the lingua franca of all but the oldest generations, defined by a tangle of non-conservative ideas, and right at the centre of our everyday experience.
Cynics might point to the times when pop culture has seemed anything but progressive, from the time when Britpop spawned the oafishness of lad culture, back through the flimsy materialism that ran through the 1980s (watch any Duran Duran video for the proof), to the thuggish, nasty turn quickly taken by punk rock. But by far the strongest philosophical thread in pop culture has been there for around six decades, and steadily moved from the countercultural fringe to the very heart of national life. It is internationalist, open, permissive, implicitly anti-racist – and, as evidenced by the modern festival crowd, as much communal as individualist.
By way of proof of all this, after years of people proclaiming the death of ideology, pop still steers well away from the political right. Aside from Gary Barlow of Take That, I cannot think of a single high-profile modern musician who has officially endorsed the Tories, nor of any moment in the past 10 years when a Tory politician appearing at Glastonbury would have been greeted with anything other than boos.
Clearly, attitudinal shifts do not happen by accident. Our culture has long privileged musicians with a pre-eminent importance, to the point that their views still make headlines. Fifty years ago, the Beatles played a huge and leading role in pulling down the walls of class-based deference. A little later, David Bowie’s defiance of the conventions of gender and sexuality changed tens of thousands of lives. The arrival after punk of 2 Tone, the genre-cum-movement that made a stand against insurgent racism via the simple idea of black and white musicians updating Jamaican ska, was another huge breakthrough. And so the list goes on: the global sensibilities embodied by Live Aid; more recently, the anthems to confidence and assertiveness that have made Katy Perry the latest embodiment of pop feminism (or, as the Spice Girls used to call it, Girl Power).
Thirty years after it first stirred, we also need to talk about acid house, which began on the fringes in the late 1980s, symbolised a massed upending of that decade’s individualist attitudes, and then bled out into everyday life. Matthew Collin’s definitive book on the subject, Altered State, rightly says that acid house was “the most vibrant, diverse and long-lasting youth movement that Britain had ever seen”, built on “deeply felt desires for communal experiences”. For all that it also involved the cheap and nasty entrepreneurialism that inevitably came with illegally organised parties and drug dealing, its legacy was pretty obvious: the imperative, simply put, to be nice – kind, caring, open, accepting.
Earlier this week, the Daily Telegraph published a letter from Marianna, Viscountess Monckton of Brenchley. She furiously claimed that Jeremy Corbyn’s appearances at Glastonbury were an “utter disgrace”, little realising that the festival is the perfect example of the way that ideas that are still anathema to far too many Conservatives have gone from the countercultural margins into the mainstream, and that Corbyn’s presence made perfect sense.
I first went 27 years ago, when the Pyramid Stage was adorned with a huge CND symbol, the organisers would not let the police in, the BBC was nowhere to be seen, and there was a clear break between the outside world and the festival’s licentious wonders. These days, by contrast, one blurs into the other, which highlights the Tories’ big problem: the fact that even when the tents have been packed up and the comedowns have kicked in, millions of us still live in a reality in which the politics of parochialism, nostalgia and moralism make precious little sense.
Ladies and Gentleman, I give you a great American success story. If not from log cabin to White House, then at least from modest beginnings in Phoenix, Arizona, whence also sprang Jenny Jerome and Barry Goldwater, to Greenwich, Connecticut, home of some of the Republic’s super-rich. Ladies and gentlemen I give you the Alice Cooper rock band.
There’s no point in pretending it’s a conventional success story, not on the surface anyway. Media penetration in the United States reached what must have been a high point last week with an Alice Cooper item in the Wall Street Journal. Over here there’s a feeling among the cognoscenti that what Billboard has described as “the best theatrical rock ‘n’ roll show since the Stones” needs more than the one previous live airing it got at the Rainbow Theatre last year to make its full impact. Hence Alice’s concert at the Empire Pool, Wembley, this evening.
Anyway for those still short of the basic facts, Alice Cooper is a bloke. She’s also a hard rock band with a million dollar sales of its last LP Killer and the prospect of considerably greater success with its new offering School’s Out.
The band’s act, Alice and the boys in drag, Alice decapitating a blood-filled doll on stage, Alice being hanged for his crime, Alice’s routine with a boa constrictor, has been called pretty well everything from “incredibly imaginative’ and “pure entertainment” to “ sado-masochistic” and “bubble-gum violence.” But even the Alice Cooper critics like the New York Sunday News (See “sado-masochistic” etc.) have to admit that Alice is pulling in the crowds.
He was certainly pulling them in last weekend with a 50,000 audience in prospect for a bumper concert at the Three Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh. Which was where we came in. Wouldn’t it be nice, the thinking went, if some London journalists were invited to see the show and make up their own minds.
We’ve been told that the Pittsburg show is going to be even more spectacular than usual. Warner Brothers, on whose label Alice Cooper records, have had their props department make a huge cannon for Alice’s spectacular exit. There’s going to be fireworks, clowns, a string quartet and ticket collectors dressed up as gorillas. “A real McLuhanesque evening” as the band’s manager Shep Gordon puts it.
Out from Heathrow, Myles, who is in our party and saw the Rainbow’s performance says that if Marc Bolan can turn the kids on, Alice Cooper will blow their minds. It all sounds very promising.
New York is wet, but Pittsburgh is wetter. The rain brought by Hurricane Agnes in the eastern end of Pennsylvania is pouring into the Monongahela and the Allegheny which meets at Pittsburgh to become the Ohio. Three Rivers Stadium, not to mention the Pittsburg Hilton where the band is staying, is a prime candidate for flooding.
If you’ve never travelled with a pop group then the idea of drink and drugs and girls may still be uppermost in your mind. While we wait for Truman Capote’s definitive impression (he’s travelling with the new Rolling Stones’ tour of the States) hang on to the idea that dull towns, anonymous hotel rooms, and tedious airline schedules probably win the day hands down.
After seven years on the road the Cooper band is used to crisis and cancellations. At least they now have the money, the big limousines, the big hotels, the big staff to fix things. Shep Gordon has been their manager since the old Los Angeles days when they were just another group trying unsuccessfully to make a living in an over crowded business, and developing a routine winch often drove audiences out of the theatre after two numbers – even when they were bottom of the bill.
Now that the public has caught up with them – that’s the official version, and it’s hard to fault it – the problems are different. Earlier last week it had been the paper pantie crisis (the one which caught the Wall Street Journal’s attention). US Customs had impounded 600,000 pairs of panties, each destined to encase a copy of School’s Out, because they weren’t properly fireproof. Israel had come to the rescue with the offer of a stopgap consignment while the offending items were being re-treated, but the incident had threatened retail supplies at a crucial marketing stage. Such are the realities of great American success stories.
Now it is the fate of the prestige Pittsburg show. We suspend our belief in the irreconcilability of the “straight” and “alternative” cultures. Short-haired Pittsburgh promoters who’ve put up the $20,000 guarantee, and long-haired Cooper management who’ve spent it laying on a MaLuhanesque evening discuss the crisis in a top floor Hilton suite as the worst local flood since 1936 crawls slowly across Point Park towards the hotel.
Alice we only meet later. He’s 24, a middle-class product of Phoenix, whose parents still not surprisingly call him Vince, and, now that they understand what the show’s about, are quite happy about it all. A soft-spoken, unassuming sort of guy. If my New York taxi driver who thought the band were fantastic in Toledo, Ohio, but reckons “they’re all gay,” saw Alice walking down 42nd Street without his leotard and make-up on, he wouldn’t give him a second glance.
Alice, Mike Bruce, Dennis Dunaway, Glen Buxton, and Neal Smith all went through High School and art school together. Alice and Dennis were in the school track team and Alice got his broken nose when he fell after winning a race. And short of being a newspaper boy, what could be more all-American than that?
The band’s line is that their acts mirror the violent and sexual fantasies of America. They’re not involved in politics, not involved in the war. (Like a lot of young Americans you meet in a few days they managed not to be drafted.) But in the years of the war and growing domestic violence they offer a cathartic “imitation of violence.”
“People only emphasise the masochistic parts. We like to think we reflect society, the violence in society,” says Dennis Dunaway. “Violence and sex is what people want. They can make what they like of the show, but we want them to react. They can throw up if they want to as long as they react,” says Alice. “They applaud when Alice is being hanged. Why? Because they’re glad it isn’t them,” says Shep Gordon.
Justifications apart, giving the people what they want has got plenty of other people into Greenwich, Connecticut, in the past and now it’s got Alice and the band there too.
They all live surrounded by four and a half wooded acres in a Spanish-American-style house with about 40 rooms. It’s said to have been built by Tom Mix and contains that peculiarly Hollywood mixture of interior styles. Physically the “Cooper Mansion” is past its best and the ballroom is littered with the debris of the band’s musical and theatrical rehearsals. Hanging (‘by the neck) from the ceiling is a dummy of Alice, and above, in the chapel now stands a sauna bath and a fridge full of beer. There are dogs and cats, a mynah bird, and of course Yvonne the boa constrictor whose predecessor disappeared down a lavatory in a Tennessee hotel only to reappear with impeccable timing when a comedian was staying in the room.
The place is heavy with allegorical possibilities. The disintegration of American values? The emergence of the alternative lifestyle ? Or the old story with new faces? After all the evidence of continuity is there too. The billiard room is in good use, and Alice is a fair table tennis player. And those girls about the place who quietly prepare dinner and uncomplainingly answer the telephone. Are they the groupies you’ve been reading about. Such nice wholesome American girls they are, you don’t like to ask. . .
Meanwhile back at the Pittsburgh Hilton they’ve boarded up the ground floor for the night in case the floodwater arrives. (It doesn’t by about six feet) But it’s reached the stadium and the concert is off. No chance of it being held elsewhere this weekend, but the long-haired and the short-haired entrepreneurs have saved the $250,000 box office by rearranging the concert intact for July 11.
We all go back to New York and the band gets ready for London. It’s been a long way to come not to see Alice Cooper, but it’s all been interesting.
With Reid, Jackson and Long Susan still evading capture in the London underground’s tunnels, the grave and bearded Inspector Jedediah Shine is under pressure to apprehend them from his boss Augustus Dove. But Shine thinks he’s made a connection between Reid’s recent activity on the dog-fighting circuit, and one dog – and its owner – in particular. Meanwhile, Reid and Jackson have a rather gruesome plan to put Dove and Shine on the back foot, involving a stiffened cadaver and a set of false teeth. Ben Arnold
A moving documentary that follows three courageous young cancer patients being treated at the Teenage Cancer Trust Unit in Glasgow. Described as “more like a youth club” than a ward, it’s here that Natasha, Nairn and Declan are able to relate to other teenage cancer patients – and just be themselves. As 15-year-old Natasha says, while picking out a wig: “My name isn’t cancer – why should my whole life revolve around it?” Ali Catterall
High-flying human rights lawyer Emma Banville smokes rollups, drives an old Volvo and thumbs her nose at the British establishment. It’s a great role for Helen McCrory, in other words, and admiring her regal bearing is one way to stay focused when the convoluted plot and handheld camerawork gets confusing. In this episode, we find out more about Tony Pullings’s relationship with the murdered schoolgirl Linda Sims, whose family attempts to block the exhumation. Ellen E Jones
Sweethearts Lucas Markham and Kim Edwards were both just 14 years old when they killed Kim’s mother and her younger sister, Katie. Why? Seemingly, they carried out the murders because Kim saw Katie as “Mum’s favourite”. This harrowing tale is explored in a documentary that features recordings of the killers, including previously unreleased police interviews, detailing what they did and interviews with some of those who knew them. Jonathan Wright
James Fox concludes his series on Japan by taking his black suit into the Japanese home. The country’s speed of change in the past 60 years means its population is now packed into small urban flats, not peaceful rural settlements. Fox is good on how people have maintained their refinement, but most breathtaking is the work of master carpenters – whose philosophy and craftsmanship were key to the way homes were initially built. John Robinson
It is difficult to point a camera at the extraordinary wilderness of Borneo without coming away with something worth seeing. So this new series has its inevitable moments, especially in its chronicling of the working life of the rangers who try to keep the local human and crocodile populations separate, thwarting the scourge of blast-fishing. Unfortunately, the temptation to oversell matters is not resisted, with a portentous narration and intrusive soundtrack. Andrew Mueller
With Gogglebox proving an enduring hit for Channel 4, it was only a matter of time before the watching-people-watching-TV format was extended. First came junior offshoot Gogglesprogs, and now there’s this, a “fast-turnaround series that reveals what 16- to 24-year-olds are really watching”. In short, that means a lot of videos and memes, but also some political news for its likable bunch of reviewers – mostly plucked from YouTube – to get their teeth into. Hannah J Davies
Mission: Impossible 2 (John Woo, 2000) 10pm, E4
Renegade spy Dougray Scott steals a deadly virus and holds the world to ransom; just another mission for Tom Cruise’s Ethan Hunt to handle. To ring the changes, Hunt teams up with cat burglar Thandie Newton (who also happens to be Scott’s ex), but Woo soon drops the finer feelings for his traditional slow-mo feast of motorbike and martial arts mayhem.
Tennis: Wimbledon Qualifying 11am, Eurosport 2. Day one from the All-England Club, as players look to book spots in the main draws.
Sailing: America’s Cup Final 5.30pm, BT Sport 1. Races nine and 10 of the sailing competition in Bermuda.
Speedway: Poole v Belle Vue 7.30pm, BT Sport 2. Coverage of the SGB Premiership fixture at Poole Stadium.
Glastonbury was brought to a close by Ed Sheeran, Boy Better Know, Justice and many more acts across the vast site on Sunday evening, crowning a year described as the “best ever” by organiser Emily Eavis.
With their infectious energy and evolving sound, Haim prove a late afternoon delight. Oh, and cheers for the sunshine
Barry Gibb’s heritage set is one of the greatest that slot on the Pyramid Stage has seen
The returning American rockers were the worst kept secret at this year’s Glastonbury, with thousands turning up to see their hush-hush show. “They say you play the John Peel stage twice in your career: once in your way up and once on your way down,” joked frontman Brandon Flowers. “It’s good to be back!”
Midway through the festival, the Spectator’s website published a bonkers article headlined “Glastonbury wouldn’t survive under a Corbyn government”. In it, the writer conjured up a dystopian fantasy more berserk than anything you might find yourself listening to in the small hours at the Stone Circle. Chief among the dire presentiments was the suggestion that the ascension of Labour to power would result in Radiohead ceasing touring and instead taking up a residency at a Las Vegas resort.
The image of Thom Yorke serenading Sin City’s high rollers with a rousing chorus of Pulk/Pull Revolving Doors was mind-boggling, but you could see why some press went on the offensive. Politicians have been turning up to Glastonbury for years, but this year the leader of the opposition was among the most hotly anticipated attractions: when he arrived on site, his Land Rover was mobbed by fans. In fact, it was hard to escape Corbyn: if Glastonbury 2017 had an unofficial anthem, it was his name sung to the tune of the White Stripes’ Seven Nation Army.
You heard “oh, Jeremy Corbyn” everywhere: at the silent disco, during Radiohead’s Friday night headlining set, midway through the Other stage appearance by rapper Stormzy, who gamely joined in. When Corbyn finally gave a speech – in a stunning piece of billing that could only happen at Glastonbury, he appeared between hip-hop duo Run the Jewels and Southampton’s foremost R&B loverman Craig David – the crowd brought the entire area around the Pyramid stage to a standstill: in some of its furthest reaches, you occasionally got the sense that some people were eager for him to stop talking so they could get on with the more pressing business of singing “oh, Jeremy Corbyn”.
Meanwhile, the bills on the main stages skewed towards mainstream pop, with mixed results. Lorde’s Friday evening Other stage appearance was one of the weekend’s highlights. The staging and choreography were fantastic – a giant glass tank on a hydraulic platform, in and around which a troupe of dancers acted out the highs and lows of a teenage party – but more striking still was how magnetic and coolly self-assured a performer Ella Yelich-O’Connor was, and how rich and inimitable her songs seemed: unashamed pop music that came with depth and intelligence as standard.
Earlier on the Other stage on Friday afternoon, Charli XCX took a more straightforward, rabble-rousing approach, a flurry of confetti cannon, inflatables and exhortations to wild hedonism: “I hope everyone gets really fucked up this weekend!” But while Katy Perry similarly threw herself into the spirit of the event – crowdsurfing, dancing with a security guard, charming the audience – her peculiar combination of newfound political conscience and longstanding predisposition to DayGlo cartoonishness was simultaneously intriguing and baffling, as a woman delivering between-song speeches about the necessity of taking back power surrounded by dancers dressed as flowers and giant pom-poms covered in fluorescent fur was perhaps wont to be.
Meanwhile, Dua Lipa’s doctored synth-pop felt characterless, as if someone had transported a performance from Radio 1’s Big Weekend to Worthy Farm. She was followed on the John Peel stage by the Lemon Twigs, who proved how bizarrely arcane some alt-rock has become. The Californian duo looked and sounded like the kind of band you would have seen being excitedly introduced on The Old Grey Whistle Test in early 1976, only to find their career suddenly foreshortened by the arrival of punk: the influence of Wings and forgotten 70s songwriters such as Gilbert O’Sullivan hungs over their complex songs, which wobbled along the line that separates fascinating and ambitious from tricksy and faintly annoying.
The first of this year’s big-name heritage acts, Kris Kristofferson, arrived on the Pyramid stage the day after his 81st birthday, amid an unexpected crowd of Hollywood superstars: he was introduced by Bradley Cooper, currently playing the role Kristofferson once played in A Star Is Born; Johnny Depp arrived onstage midway through the set to play guitar, while at its conclusion, the stage-side screens revealed Brad Pitt watching from the wings. Kristofferson’s appearance was simultaneously a little chaotic – “I wish I knew where I was,” he muttered at one point – and weirdly powerful and uncompromising. Played acoustically, glacially paced and sung in Kristofferson’s parched, age-weathered voice, even his more lighthearted songs – Jesus Was a Capricorn, Best Of All Possible Worlds – were leant an eerie gravitas, while Me and Bobby McGee and Sunday Morning Coming Down sounded heartbreakingly careworn and poignant.
The prospect of the xx performing in front of the vast crowd was faintly uncomfortable: their music is hushed and intimate; they’re not exactly renowned for their magnetic stage presence. But they seemed completely transformed. For one thing, even the sparsest of their songs sounded suddenly thunderous, powered along by Jamie xx’s percussion. And for another, Romy Madley Croft and Oliver Sim have unexpectedly turned from performers who radiated shyness and the general sense they would rather be anywhere than onstage into a genuinely charismatic double act: their set was an unexpected triumph.
Radiohead’s headlining slot was a more tricky proposition. There were people in the crowd who clearly thought they were in for a greatest hits set, commemorating the 20th anniversaries of both OK Computer and their legendary appearance amid the torrential rain of 1997’s Glastonbury: PLAY THE FUCKING BENDS read the legend on the flag one audience member held aloft. Those people were in for a disappointment, at least initially.
There was something distinctly low-key, even wilfully alienating about the band’s performance. A scattering of OK Computer tracks were interspersed with more abstract latterday material – the clatter of 15 Step and Myxamatosis. The stage-side screens showed images of Radiohead’s members overlaid with each other, static interference and computer graphics: it looked impressive, but if you couldn’t actually see the stage itself, it was impossible to work out what was going on up there. But after the crowd began to thin out, its less committed members perhaps headed for the uncomplicated pleasures of Major Lazer’s set, there was a noticeable shift. Thom Yorke’s onstage pronouncements became less abstract and more effusive, they played the songs the less committed audience members doubtless wanted to hear in the first place: Paranoid Android, Creep, Fake Plastic Trees and Karma Police. At the end of the latter, Yorke happily led an audience singalong.
Saturday dawned with Chicago alt-rockers Whitney – whose 70s-tinged sound blended West Coast country rock with brassy soul flourishes and came studded with great songs – fulfilling the festival’s traditional role of Visiting Americans Who’ve Never Been to Glastonbury Before and Seem Visibly Baffled and Slightly Horrified by the Whole Thing.
As the band paused between songs, a gust of wind blew a distinctive Worthy Farm odour in the direction of drummer/vocalist Julien Ehrich: “Wow,” he frowned, “this place smells of cow shit.” Meanwhile, for those who doubted the sheer breadth of music Glastonbury offers, a short walk took you from Thundercat’s exploratory, spaced-out take on jazz-funk – where the smooth sound of yacht rock crashed into extended passages of improvisation to thrilling effect – to the aforementioned Craig David, clad entirely in white and padding out his set by the simple expedient of playing other people’s records and singing along to them, and thence to Liam Gallagher on the comeback trail.
The latter was genuinely impressive. There was a real urgency and conviction to his performance, presumably fuelled by the fact that he realises his forthcoming solo album may represent the last roll of the dice for his post-Oasis career, after the widespread indifference that greeted his band Beady Eye. His voice seemed to have vastly improved from the period towards the end of Oasis, when he was less like a vocalist than a man caught in the throes of straining and failing to pass a stool; his new songs appeared to justify drafting in the help of songwriters for hire; his versions of Slide Away and (What’s The Story) Morning Glory? recaptured the feral power those songs had on arrival.
Run the Jewels’ post-Corbyn set, meanwhile, was another of the festival’s unalloyed triumphs. It is not just that their brand of underground hip-hop was spectacularly potent, although it was. It was the way Killer Mike and El-P had the ability to constantly shift the onstage mood, from infectious fury to cross-talking comedy, from heated political rhetoric to self-deprecation. There was something genuinely moving about the moment when El-P beckoned Killer Mike to the centre of the stage, silently indicated the size of the crowd – by some considerable distance the largest audience the duo have ever played to – and the pair embraced.
A similar mood of stunned disbelief permeated Stormzy’s fantastic Other stage set. This time last year, he noted, he was playing to “300 or 400” people in the festival’s dance area. “My mum’s going to be so confused by seeing 20 or 30,000 people watching her little boy,” he told a crowd he had such control over they created a vast moshpit at his behest.
But watching him, it was easy to see why he’s become grime’s biggest breakout star. He’s a unique and gripping performer, cutting an endearingly gangly figure at odds with the standard macho rapper’s bluster, and has talent.
His speech about the Grenfell fire – “we are urging the authorities to tell the fucking truth … we are urging the government be held accountable for the fuckery they’re holding up” – was impassioned and heartfelt, while his concluding performance of Shut Up turned into a delirious singalong, one of those moments where being in the middle of a Glastonbury crowd seems about as exciting and stirring an experience as live music can offer.
Foo Fighters’ headlining Pyramid stage performance made for an intriguing study in contrasts with Radiohead’s appearance 24 hours before. From abstruse experimentalism to undemanding, gonzo post-grunge rock; from a band for whom the mere mention of a traditional rock cliche would bring on a terrible case of the vapours to a band who gleefully embrace every traditional rock cliche going – up to and including the late Freddie Mercury’s old “day-oh!” audience participation routine – and from Thom Yorke mumbling about ley lines and “useless politicians” between songs to Dave Grohl’s relentless bonhomie and hearty cheerleading, which didn’t just happen between songs, but during them: you were never more than 90 seconds away from a cry of “do you like rock’n’roll?” or “you guys need a break or you wanna keep it up?”.
From The Best of You to The Pretender, their own material invariably came equipped with huge choruses designed to be bellowed along to; they covered Another One Bites the Dust and Under Pressure; they gave every impression of being willing to play all night were it not for the curfew.
As an exercise in crowd-pleasing it was hugely impressive, and incredibly effective.
Clearly not a man much given to shy understatement, Grohl nevertheless seemed genuinely taken aback by the sheer fervour of the crowd’s reaction: the sound of them still singing the coda of Run long after the band finished finally seemed to render him speechless.
For a moment he stopped asking them whether they liked rock’n’roll or if they were having a good time and walked away from the microphone laughing in disbelief.
Sunday afternoon brought with it bright sunshine, and a crowd that stretched so far outside the John Peel tent that those at the back may well have not even been in the same postal district as the actual stage on which The Killers were performing an ostensibly “secret” set. Over on the Pyramid stage, meanwhile, two of the greatest back catalogues in pop history were on offer. There was a real emotional charge about Barry Gibb’s performance in the traditional Sunday afternoon heritage slot: for all their brilliance, and the vast quantity of records they sold, the Bee Gees songs he performed were once largely reviled or treated as a joke. Gibb seemed both startled and moved by the reaction from the Glastonbury audience, but his set never put a foot wrong - it offered wall-to-wall classics, from the late 60s balladry of I’ve Gotta Get A Message To You to relentless disco pulse of You Should Be Dancing to Islands In The Stream. You could hear an echo of the years the Bee Gees were mocked in the note of apology with which he introduced Stayin’ Alive – “we have to do songs from that film” – but by the end of the set, with the crowd chanting his name, the security guards at the front of the stage performing synchronised John Travolta dance moves and Gibb wearing a gold jacket passed to him from a group of audience members dressed as him is his 70s pomp, the note of apology was gone. Nile Rodgers and Chic, meanwhile, had so much sublime music at their disposal that there was no room for some of his greatest songs – Sister Sledge’s Lost In Music and Dance Dance Dance among them. Their performance still felt like a relentless, delirium-inducing barrage – We Are Family, Le Freak, Good Times, Get Lucky, Upside Down, I’m Coming Out, Let’s Dance.
It’s a tough act to follow, particularly given that Ed Sheeran elected to perform the weekend’s final Pyramid stage headlining slot almost entirely solo: a traditional Irish band appeared for one song, but that’s about it for unexpected surprises. At this point in the weekend, the crowd tends to respond to something comforting and familiar, which was precisely what Sheeran provided. In fact, stripped back to an acoustic guitar and a loop pedal, his music was noticeably more visceral than on record – Bloodstream in particular concluded with a genuinely gripping torrent of overdubbed guitar noise – but it was clearly the singalong factor that the audience are there for.
They didn’t leave disappointed. For all his nerves as he took the stage – he kept suggesting the crowd might not know the songs, which taken into account their ubiquity in recent years seemed profoundly unlikely – there was nothing tentative about his performance; given that he didn’t really do much other than play his guitar, hammer out beats on it with his hands and sing, he made an oddly compelling onstage presence, and the audience clearly loved him, bellowing along to the oft-mocked Galway Girl and the genuinely fantastic Sing alike. Sitting on the edge of the stage at the show’s end, draped in a flag and singing You Need Me, a bullish screw-you written when he was 15, he didn’t look much like a man still plagued by nerves over headlining Glastonbury.
After a sell-out run at the Almeida, Hamlet has transferred to the West End and is an all-consuming marvel. This vigil of a production, directed by Robert Icke, reminds us of the extent to which Hamlet is about surveillance. Designer Hildegarde Bechtler has seized stylishly on modern ways of being watchful – including a patchwork of screens. Hamlet’s father’s ghost is sighted on CCTV. Who, in this play, is not a spy? Almost everyone is spying on someone, and Andrew Scott’s Hamlet is at pains to remind us that, at the theatre, we spy on ourselves.
In dishevelled black, his frantic prince could pass as a contemporary theatre director. He warns the players against overstatement yet allows his own hands comic freedom. Scott ranges from natural distraction in his aspect to theatrical flamboyance, his fingers in SOS mode – animated starfish. Each soliloquy sounds as though he were thinking it for the first time as he mixes the conversational with the histrionic. Hamlet may be in doubt but Scott is not – he is a brilliant communicator and ensures that Shakespeare’s language never sounds archaic.
Ophelia appears in a wheelchair, as if paralysed by circumstance
Icke directs Gertrude and Claudius so that their sexual infatuation is blatant. You won’t see a more involving Gertrude than Juliet Stevenson – maternal, sensual and tormented. Claudius is the ultimate smooth operator – coercive and given to smarmy platitudes (exemplary performance by Angus Wright). We see there is every reason for Hamlet to be eye-rollingly vexed by his stepdad’s urbane machinations.
Peter Wight’s tremendous Polonius is more than a windy old fool tying sentences up in knots. He is emotional, serious, loving to his children – worthy of respect as well as of ribbing. As Laertes, Luke Thompson is meticulously accomplished and Jessica Brown Findlay’s wonderful Ophelia makes something fluent out of the fragmentation of madness – appearing in a wheelchair, as if paralysed by circumstance.
At every turn, Icke opts for whatever is needed to extend the emotion of the play. This includes his use of Bob Dylan’s music. Not Dark Yet pours into the final duel – with the line “Feel like my soul has turned into steel” accompanying the flash of foils.
• Hamlet is at the Harold Pinter theatre, London, until 2 September
When Cathy Rentzenbrink was a teenager her life was thrown into turmoil when her life-force of a brother was knocked over by a car. Emergency brain surgery prevented his death. A 10-day coma was followed by eight years of unthinkable family nightmare as he lay in a persistent vegetative state (“ugly words for an ugly condition”). Eventually, after complex legal proceedings, he died, and they could finally grieve.
She wrote about that experience in her previous book, the harrowing but beautiful memoir The Last Act of Love. Here she has a different purpose. While making reference to that tragedy, the focus here is on advice, and ways to get through the crises that will come our way.
Rentzenbrink is “not a doctor, a therapist, a philosopher, a priest or an expert on anything”, but she certainly has known heartache. And in clear and warm fashion, Rentzenbrink has written a lovely, simple book about how to cope with life’s bumps and shocks and sadnesses. There is a lot of intelligence here – it brims with it – but it is presented in such an informal way that it always has the feel of someone sitting by your bedside, rather than standing behind a lectern.
It may be chicken soup for the soul, but this isn’t a wiser-than-thou self-help book
Even when she talks about Stoic philosophy or Japanese ceramics she does so in a relaxed, everyday way, and fuses it with references to Harry Potter. She is comforted by Marcus Aurelius, the Roman emperor who wrote a series of meditations and reflections to keep himself on the straight and narrow. She finds it a comfort to discover that almost two millennia ago that great powerful emperor was “fretting about pretty much the same stuff as I do now. Of course, he didn’t have Twitter to navigate but I guess being emperor and having your face on all the coins leads to some fairly significant authenticity worries.” The therapy she gets from the emperor is his idea that we are small within the vast expanse of things, so make of it what you will, and keep that perspective.
Most of the reference points, though, are thoroughly human ones, like sitting in a doctor’s waiting room with depression, and feeling guilty that everyone else in the room looks like they need far more help than you do. In this chapter, on mental health, she says that what has helped her is thinking of her depression the way she would think of an injury, or acne: something that can be treated. “The mind is simply another part of the body. It works hard, deserves our care and we shouldn’t feel ashamed about needing to give it some attention.” All common sense, of course, but sense isn’t always that common, especially when in the throes of a crisis.
And this is why it is a major asset to this book that Rentzenbrink isn’t a doctor or a therapist. This is not an academic text. It may be chicken soup for the soul, but this isn’t a wiser-than-thou self-help book. One of her tips, as an avid book lover, is to read “gentle, comforting, funny things” and that is what she herself is offering here. Not just a comfort in the advice she offers, but in the reassuring way she is choosing to offer it. Very often Rentzenbrink is giving advice to herself, as much as to the reader, acknowledging that she as much as any of us is a work in progress.
The chapters, to make things as soothing as possible, are all quite short and easy to digest. My favourite was the one called “Instructions to My Future Self”. And of course, via talking informally to herself (“My dear, my dear”), she is also talking to us the reader. “Somewhere in the future you are in a bit of a pickle.” That’s going to be all of us, isn’t it, at some point? Pickles are universal. And the advice is straightforward, and works for most of us too. Beware of alcohol, caffeine and social media. Stop beating yourself up for things beyond your control. She also tells herself to write things down honestly, and as with The Last Act of Love we get the subtle feeling that the very process of writing this book was a kind of therapy. It comes from a place of bleakness, but turns into a tender appreciation of life’s beauty.
At one point she thinks of Nancy Mitford saying that though life is often dull and sometimes sad there are currants in the cake. “Look for the currants.” Ultimately, we might never fix our broken hearts, but we can still live, and our hearts can grow and appreciate life’s wonder. That is the feeling the reader is left with. It is fair to say Rentzenbrink has added another lovely currant to the cake.
• A Manual for Heartache by Cathy Rentzenbrink is published by Picador (£8.99). To order a copy for £7.50 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
A popular choice for the audience prize at the 2017 BBC Cardiff Singer of the World and a superb Sophie in WNO’s recent Der Rosenkavalier, Louise Alder has captured hearts in Wales and beyond. This disc of Richard Strauss songs comes at just the right moment in her ascent towards stardom. It’s grouped under headings such as youth, longing, loss, release. Some of the nearly two dozen choices are familiar, such as Zueignung, which she sings with unusual and touching introversion and contemplation. All are sung with vivid narrative skill, rich in colour and detail, and with a stunning purity of tone on long notes (as in the “Ruhe” of Ruhe, meine Seele!). Alder is beautifully partnered by pianist Joseph Middleton.
One of my very earliest musical memories is the wonderful sound of Chopin’s E flat nocturne on an old 78. The music gets under your skin, and that is equally true for the Chinese-American pianist Claire Huangci, who has recorded all 21 nocturnes. Are they too unvaried a sequence? No, because of the deftness and variety that Chopin creates within the form. Huangci has a lovely, warm sound and in some pieces, like the F sharp major, integrates all the incredible filigree to beautiful effect. But she overdoes some effects, like the pauses in the D flat major; there is not enough variety in the textures to make this a top recommendation.
Psalm 42 (“Like as the hart desireth the water brooks, so longeth my soul after thee, O God”) has inspired composers for centuries, and is a recurring theme in Catherine Clover’s new novel, The Templar’s Garden, some of which is set in the chapel and cloister of New College, Oxford. So it is fitting that the choir of that ancient institution should record an exploration of six centuries of settings of this beautiful text, but the result is disappointingly uneven. Ockeghem to Howells via Palestrina, Tallis, Schütz, Buxtehude and Handel is a stretch on one , and two undistinguished commissions from Antony Pitts and Alexander L’Estrange add little to the mix.
Coming out of a dissolving boy band must be a bit like being an entrant in one of those dystopian jungle fights – a Hunger Games-style event in which bandmates are scattered across an unknown terrain and challenged to slog their lonely route back to fame. Justin Timberlake, after NSync, enjoyed the unsporting edge of natural talent and crushed his former colleagues. Robbie Williams looked supreme in the Take That scrimmage, at least until Gary Barlow circled back, gathered up the other three, and made the fight a more compelling four-on-one. By the time One Direction announced they were to go on indefinite hiatus in 2015, many of us were familiar enough with the conventions of boy-band bloodsport to start picking favourites for the coming melee.
Harry Styles – charming, a grinner – was best placed to succeed on his own. Big-lunged Zayn Malik was already out of the band by that time and had used his head start to good effect, preparing a solo album that went to No 1. Liam Payne and Niall Horan – always second-tier members – were given middling chances. And ranked last in any serious analysis, the most fitfully appreciated member of One Direction, was Louis Tomlinson. Here was a combatant you might expect to find curled up in a fox hole on the battlefield, pale and chain-smoking and wondering how much he really wanted in on such an unequal fight.
It is in roughly this position I find the 25-year-old, one afternoon earlier this summer. Slender, tracksuited, a little wan under his manicured facial hair, Tomlinson sits on a garden bench outside the photographer’s studio and works methodically through an entire pack of cigarettes. “I know, I know,” he says of the smoking. “It’s not great. But there’s so much hurry-up-and-wait in this job. It helps me get ready to go again.”
I’ve often wondered why the fringe members of boy bands do this to themselves. Why they gather themselves to “go again”. As Tomlinson acknowledges, in One Direction he was seen by some as “forgettable, to a certain degree”. “The others have always been… Like Niall, for example. He’s the most lovely guy in the world. Happy-go-lucky Irish, no sense of arrogance. And he’s fearless. There are times I’ve thought: ‘I’d have a bit of that.’ Zayn, back in the day. He could relate to me on a nerves level. In the first year we were both the least confident. But Zayn has a fantastic voice and for him it was always about owning that. Liam always had a good stage presence, same as Harry, they’ve both got that ownership. Harry comes across very cool. Liam’s all about getting the crowd going, doing a bit of dancing…”
And then there’s you.
“And then there’s me.”
Tracks from Tomlinson’s solo record have been playing inside the studio. They’re modest, rather lovely pop songs that in their quiet way seem to acknowledge his underdog status. Tomlinson lights another cig. “You know I didn’t sing a single solo on the X Factor,” he says, recalling the time back in 2010, when One Direction were first put together as a band on the ITV reality show. “A lot of people can take the piss out of that. But when you actually think about how that feels, standing on stage every single week, thinking: ‘What have I really done to contribute here? Sing a lower harmony that you can’t really hear in the mix?” He guesses, smiling wryly, that in those months he was best known as “The kid wearing espadrilles, stood in’t back.”
Not the best singer, not the high-energy guy, not the dude, Tomlinson discovered he was the one in the band who was most tuned into backstage logistics – the one who paid attention when “the 20th approval form” was passed around for a signature. “And if there was any bad news that needed giving to the label I’d always be designated to have the argument.” Later this would lead to Tomlinson founding a small record label of his own, Triple String, and to starting a side project managing a girl band. In his day job with One Direction, meanwhile, he toured the world, released five albums and amassed a large, equal-parts fortune like the rest of the boys. Somewhere en route, Tomlinson says, he found his feet as a performer. “In the last year of One Direction I was probably the most confident I ever was. And then it was: ‘OK, hiatus!’”
I think they’ll write books about One Direction fans, because they are so fanatical. The intensity. It’s remarkable
Tomlinson argued against it, he says, when the band first sat down to discuss separation. “It wasn’t necessarily a nice conversation. I could see where it was going.” Tomlinson remembers his instinctive assumption being simple. He would step away – try writing for other people, keep his label going, wait the “two years, five years, whatever it be” until One Direction reformed. “If you’d asked me a year or 18 months ago: ‘Are you going to do anything as a solo artist?’ I’d have said absolutely not.”
What changed? If the management stuff made you happy, I say, why not sit back and focus on that?
“But then I’d be conceding,” he says.
Conceding to who? To what? He waves his hand in the air. He could mean anything: history, bandmates, doubters, the press. Tomlinson is quiet for a while and eventually says: “I’m trying to work out why it is that I’m [doing this], now that you’ve asked that question.” He fidgets and trials a few answers that run out of steam. “It’s frustrating, because I know what I want to say and I can’t articulate it.” He pats for his lighter. The odds are against this tilt, Tomlinson seems to understand. But as we start to talk through his reasons for at least trying, I find myself hoping that this Last Directioner makes an unlikely go of it after all.
Reason one. The pop industry has an ineluctable momentum, and the star who begins something (like a skier inching off a hilltop) can quickly find themselves bound to ride out whatever thrills and trials comes next. Tomlinson gives the example of how he first became famous. Born in Doncaster in 1991 he was raised by his mother, Johannah Deakin, and later also by her new partner Mark Tomlinson. He was 16 when he went to his first X Factor audition. Prompt rebuff. A year later he made it into the audition process, but still nowhere near the part where ambitious young singers are briskly embraced or condemned by that great gatekeeper of celebrity, Simon Cowell. In 2010 Tomlinson, twice unlucky, gave the auditions a final try.
“I told myself I’ve just got to get to Simon, get his opinion, that’s all my ambition was. Then all of a sudden everything changed. To my friends in Doncaster I would always say [getting into the band] was the most incredible thing that happened to me. And it was. But it happened when I was already having the best year of my life. I was 17, 18, just started driving, didn’t need fake ID any more, going to house parties. That’s the time. That’s the age. And to a certain degree… ‘Having it taken away’ is the wrong phrase. But there was a price to pay.”
He says his current efforts as a soloist came about in similar fashion. In 2016, Tomlinson had become a father. (His son, Freddie, “who I love so much”, was born after a brief relationship with a Californian stylist called Briana Jungwirth.) He had some other personal matters to work through and in the summer he went on holiday to Las Vegas to blow off steam. At a club the American DJ Steve Aoiki was playing. Tomlinson, giddy with delight from Aoiki’s set, suggested to the DJ they try writing something together. In career terms, he had inched off the hill again, without necessarily considering the gradient of the slope.
A few months later, Tomlinson says, a single he’d written with Aoiki was being rolled out for release through One Direction’s old record label, Syco. Tomlinson was booked in to perform it on live TV. “And I was, like: ‘Did I really think this through?’”
Which leads Tomlinson to reason two. He’s well aware he was fast-tracked into his music career. That, as a part of One Direction, he was only a piece of a “heavy machine”. And as a self-aware northerner, from a proudly working class family, this has left Tomlinson with residual guilt to answer about wealth and status that do not feel to him fully earned. “This is the sort of shit I think about. And I know, I know it sounds ungrateful. But I think about a man, on a nine-to-five, working his arse off for six months so he can go to his family and say: ‘Guys, I’m taking you to Disneyland.’ That moment… I’ll never have that in my family life. And I’ve worked hard. But I’ve never worked hard, not like that.”
Tomlinson says he has already sweated more for this record than any before. When you’re putting together material as a soloist, he says, you quickly learn that those hot-shot collaborators who once dribbled to work with One Direction no longer pick up the phone so readily. “I couldn’t say to you now that I could definitely get a superstar writer in a session with me. And I understand that.” Tomlinson adds, with no real vinegar, that not all of his former bandmates will be operating in these same straitened circumstances: “Harry won’t struggle with any of that.”
In their One Direction days, no question, Styles got the most attention. But all the boys had their devotees and Tomlinson retains a body of fans who’ve been loyal to him even when he might have looked a wobbly investment. He wants to prove to them – reason three – that he’s been worth the backing all these years. “I honestly think they’ll write books about One Direction fans,” Tomlinson says. “Because they are so fanatical. The intensity. It’s remarkable.”
Draining, I ask?
“Oh definitely draining. Definitely.”
Tomlinson cannot talk about it with me, not without getting into muddy legal waters, but there was recently a difficult episode involving a small crowd of fans at an airport in LA. He was travelling with his partner, Eleanor Calder, who is viewed with some distrust by the fiercest corps of Louis fans. Video footage seems to show Calder being surrounded and attacked by a group of girls. Tomlinson, unable to discuss the matter, says to me more generally that he hopes his new music will reveal to fans a more complete version of himself than before.
“Although my problems might look a hell of a lot different they’re actually, fundamentally, the same. Loss feels the same. Heartbreak feels the same. The fundamental hurtful things for a human are all the same. And I feel like I have to push that constantly, that humanised… The humanised feeling that…”
That you’re not a toy?
“Yeah. Honestly, it’s crazy. It’s hard for a lot of people who are fanatical to believe that you are a real entity and a person.”
Which brings us to reason four. Reason four Tomlinson discusses with caution. Reason four he enshrouds with disclaimers: that it is not his intention to tell “a sob story”, that “I don’t like people feeling sorry for me”. Reason four concerns his mum.
Johannah Deakin was diagnosed with leukaemia in early 2016. Tomlinson had been worried his luck would run out; that having been “dealt that amazing hand” to squeak into the last berth in One Direction, he was due some sort of equalising blow. And he gives a bleak little laugh when he recalls where he was when the terrible phone call came. “At Jamie Vardy’s wedding of all places. Talk about your places, for something super-traumatic. My mum told me, uh, yeah, that she was definitely terminal.”
They were unusually close. He recalls how she was often one step ahead “because she had the password to my email”. It was an intimacy he attributes to them being close in age. “I remember the day I lost my virginity. I hadn’t even told any of my mates and I was, like: ‘Mum? I know this is really weird. But I’ve got to tell you…’ I remember thinking this is a bizarre conversation to be having with your mother. But it’s testament to how comfortable she made me.”
When Deakin died, in December 2016, Tomlinson was only days away from the live gig he’d agreed to do on the X Factor. “I remember saying to her: ‘Mum, how the fuck do you expect me to do this now?’ And she didn’t swear much, my mum. She’d always tell me off for swearing. And this time she was like: ‘You’ve got to fucking do it, it’s as simple as that.’ It was football manager, team talk stuff.’” The footage of Tomlinson’s performance that weekend is hard to watch. When he first appears on the X Factor stage he looks rigid, almost plastic, with grief. He’s clearly able to lose himself in the three-minute drama of a pop song. And after that the colour drains right back out of his face.
Tomlinson smokes for a bit. He says: “I’m not gonna claim this is all for me mum. But it was definitely… It was…”
He thinks. Throughout his life, he says, his mum always had greater belief in him than he did. “Sometimes my reservation, or my confidence, might have prevented me from doing something. And I’ve needed a mum in the past to kick me up the arse and go: ‘You’re doing it.’”
The boy bander has his reasons, then. “I’ve enjoyed this,” he says. “An opportunity to talk super openly. Not, y’know, answer questions about who my favourite superhero is. I don’t feel I get that many chances.”
The pile of cigarette butts in front of him has mounted to quite a height. Tomlinson, seeming to notice it for the first time, mutters: “Sorry. I’ve been chaining.” His mum hated smoking, he says. Then he smiles. “Though I remember she had the occasional cigarette herself.”
He taps his lighter on the table and asks what I make of everything he’s said. “Do you think your readers are still gonna wonder: ‘Why doesn’t he just not do it?’”
I’m not sure, I tell him, trying to be honest. But let’s see.
Louis’s new single ‘Back To You’ featuring Bebe Rexha and Digital Farm Animals is coming soon
Jeremy Vine: Ed Miliband Sits In (BBC Radio 2) | iPlayerEd O’Brien – Saints of Somewhere | PodcastPM (BBC Radio 4) | iPlayer
You take your comfort where you can, but Ed Miliband is not a man I would have previously looked to for delight or reassurance. Too nerdy. Too alien. Can’t eat his snacks correctly. But having heard him on Radio 2, sitting in for Jeremy Vine, I find I have changed my opinion entirely. Miliband was one of the few joys in another relentlessly awful week.
Perhaps I’m wrong, but I had the feeling that his producer, Phil Jones, was enjoying himself too. Monday’s show was tricky, covering the Finsbury Park mosque attack, but as the week went on there was more fun. Ed talks how to cool down in this heat! Ed sings death metal! A chat about toilets on Tuesday was just great. Are the new button flushes inefficient? “We sent our reporter, Tim Johns, to a toilet,” said Miliband, “to tell us more.”
Listeners phoned in. “With the new ones, when you have, you know, a big job, it’ll take three or four flushes,” said one man, gravely. “And then you’re left with skid marks.” Ed sympathised, while apologising to listeners who were eating their lunch. Other callers came on to demonstrate the power of their flush. “I’m in the toilet,” said Lorraine from Northumberland, “as we speak.” She unleashed a mighty torrent. Later on, in a chat about how to keep cool, another man phoned from his bathroom. “I’m stripped to the waist, in trousers and underpants, no socks and no shoes. I’ve just had a complete body wash down,” he said.
Radio gold, if you ask me. Miliband was delightful to everyone: listening hard, letting them speak, chipping in with quips (perhaps a few too many, but as a nervous quipper, I sympathise). Yes, his voice is too adenoidal for radio, and he was occasionally over-giddy, but you sensed the listeners liked him. On Wednesday, an elderly Tory supporter phoned in. “Why doesn’t anyone give Theresa May a chance?” she wondered, before offering a “That’s all right, darlin’”, when Ed thanked her for her contribution.
It’s hard to overstate how well produced this show is. Miliband is clearly reading from a script, the timing is rigorous, the show is packed with great guests (Jeremy Corbyn’s brother!). To be honest, with hand-holding like this, a bright 11-year-old could do the job. Which bodes well for Iain Duncan Smith, who will be sitting in the same chair next week. Perhaps we’ll discover he, too, has a personality in there. Because, in the end, it was Miliband who made these shows. His sincerity and kindness were absolutely clear. Such qualities shine out in broadcasting, and Miliband twinkled like a very sweet, glad-to-be-out-of-the-House star. If the BBC don’t get him on Strictly, they’re missing a trick.
Time for another Ed. O’Brien, the guitarist from Radiohead, was on Saints of Somewhere this week, as a hat-tip to Radiohead’s headlining slot at Glastonbury this weekend. The podcast, hosted by Kirsty Robinson, is an intriguing one: it gets its interviewees to chart their life and beliefs through their “saints” – their defining moments or influences. O’Brien was moving and open, especially interesting on faith, belief and the power of crowds. “Every single person in an audience is as important as us,” he said. “We just strike the match.”
And, lastly, yet another Ed. On Wednesday’s PM, Eddie Mair interviewed Boris Johnson. Like Diane Abbott and Jeremy Corbyn before him, Johnson was not across his party’s every policy detail. Mair punished him for it; quick and cold, as ruthless as you feel Johnson is underneath his charm. “No solutions,” he said. “Not a single concrete policy.” He didn’t even mention that Johnson was ruffling through papers to find his answers. He didn’t need to: we could hear it.
“What,” inquired Mair, with icy politesse, “is the point of this prime minister?” Johnson’s bluster squeaked out of him – “Ah, ah ah, ah…” and he subsided like a pricked balloon. Back the Eds to win.
If Lennon’s previous novel, Familiar – the story of a mother trapped in a parallel dimension – lifted sci-fi tropes for a riddling exploration of parenthood, his equally brilliant new book borrows ingredients from horror and crime narrative to electrify a story of middle-class marital breakdown. After Karl, a sculptor, and Eleanor, a novelist, relocate upstate in a last-gasp attempt to cure him of his chronic philandering, their 12-year-old daughter, Irina, becomes obsessed with the history of their new home, a fixer-upper bought for a song after its previous owners were brutally murdered onsite a decade earlier. When she befriends an older girl who she’s convinced is the now-teenaged orphan who survived the attack, Irina – and everyone else – gets more than she bargained for. Fizzing with line-by-line propulsion and wickedly plotted with slow-burn complexity, this is a knockout, unmissable performance from a writer at the very top of his game.
• Broken River by J Robert Lennon is published by Serpent’s Tail (£12.99). To order a copy for £11.04 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
Hospital (BBC2) | iPlayerTheresa vs Boris: How May Became PM (BBC2) | iPlayerWho Should We Let In? (BBC2) | iPlayerThe Crystal Maze (C4) | All 4
Watch of the week, undoubtedly, was a simply superb start to the second series of the fly-on-the-wall Hospital, in which cameras, handled with courtesy, generally get to peer at the entrails of St Mary’s hospital, Paddington, west London, and the weary travails within its groaning walls. Those courteous cameras, and the producers behind them, were rewarded by being allowed to keep filming throughout Wednesday 22 March – the day a jihadist nutter mowed through the crowds on Westminster Bridge before stabbing a policeman – rather than haughtily told to pack up. It was an eminently sensible, if risky, call by the St Mary’s high-ups, and utterly vindicated. I suggest, if you haven’t seen this, you catch up as soon as humanly possible: you might not appreciate being invited to put yourselves through it, but nor did the crowds on the bridge.
It was occasionally easy to forget we were not watching a drama, but visceral life itself
It wasn’t long, his spree – 82 seconds – but five dead, dozens injured, lives altered unutterably, and we saw the fallout land fast at A & E’s resuscitation unit. There had been some behind-the-scenes frantic stuff just to clear out enough ICU beds, the few movable patients being wheeled out the back in tarpaulins with unseemly haste for the main event: sterling work by all, though dare I say a little too much self-importance from one or two middle-managers, rather keen to don tabards vouchsafing them as Bronze or Gold Team or whatever and bark into phones, before remembering that they were very much the warm-up act, and bean-counters at that.
Stars of the show, apart of course (as ever) from the quietly spoken, quietly knackered surgeons, were 18-year-old Yann and Victor, 16, two French students, best pals. Yann’s brain was, essentially, hanging out; Victor’s lung had collapsed: but after only about an hour or so of bloodied wizardry and mask-muttered talk – “can I get a curette… no, not a bone-nibbler!”, and terrifying stuff about a “tibial nail” – both were stabilised, and soon reunited. Young Victor in particular was wise beyond his years, and had a grand line in dry French humour – he had enjoyed some “excellent” days in London, “even if the end… didn’t exactly go to plan”. Earlier, however, we’d seen him on the phone to his parents. “Will you come?” Just a scared laddie wanting his maman.
It was occasionally easy to forget we were not watching a drama, but visceral life itself. We were soon reminded by lovely Stephen, who only kept his leg thanks to some near-incredible micro-surgery. Days later he would walk out, with a tentative, “I think I’m allowed to say we’ve won. We survived, and we’re safe.” The “we” here referred to wife Cara, who during newspaper coverage had been photographed bending beseechingly over Stephen on the bridge. “I just see love in it, really,” he said. “All the chaos and hatred, and all I can see is my wife looking after me.”
What struck, too, was the immense pastoral care meted out by St Mary’s, from simply reuniting a boy with his glasses, to sympathetic translators, or surgeons eating into their valuable time to warn, patiently, of flashbacks, or a doc snapping – most politely, but it was an unmistakable snap – on the phone at a French insurance company.
I’m not going to blah on about our “people” being united more than divided, or London being stronger afterwards, because I’m not even sure if I would believe my own platitudes any more, but I suspect everyone could take their little redemptive lesson from this programme. Apart, of course, from the nutters.
Didn’t Boris get a relatively easy ride in Theresa vs Boris: How May Became PM, a not entirely unsuccessful imagined dramatising of last year’s Tory leadership election? Theresa was played as a whey-faced, stiff-gaited automaton, and Michael Gove as a whey-faced, stiff-gaited automaton with an unconvincing Scottish brogue, and Boris as a clubbable, bumbling, curry-loving funster. In reality, of course, he’s possibly the most culpable of the lot, having down the years “served” his country in much the same way a stallion serves a mare, and I can only reluctantly marvel, with weary migraines, at the fact his team is still spinning him so successfully.
What also came across, though, was how truly, rambunctiously, hog-whimperingly incompetent were all the special advisers. The lies, the foot-shootery, the whispers, the disorganisation, the lies – one whiff of promised power would seem to turn Oxbridge’s finest into stumbling, duplicitous thudmonkeys who couldn’t find their own arse with both hands and a map. This was all helpfully supplemented with interviews with real-life Tory MPs from the varying camps, who cheerfully surmised “There is nothing more Machiavellian than a Tory leadership contest”, and “[the parliamentary Tories] are the most dishonest electorate in history: what reason do they have to be honest?”
With this mix in place, and the ongoing Brexit shambles – Brambles? – and the Queen’s speech throwing up only one question – did a whole two goats die in vain? – what fresh joys surely await us in the autumn.
Ian Hislop turned his ever-gimlet brain on to the fraught subject of immigration, in Who Should We Let In?, but it turns out that it was hardly fraught at all in Victorian times: our forebears saw it as a badge of honour, and a moral duty, to throw our doors open ever wider.
Hislop precised forensically, with the help of some fun graphics, how that all changed. There are the numbers, of course – 0.3% of Brits were foreign-born in 1851, 13.5% in 2015 – but there was also post-first world war resentment at undercutting of wages, and some savage muddying of the waters between “asylum seeker” and “immigrant” by, among others, Sir William Evans-Gordon and his British Brothers’ League against “foreign pauper aliens”. Ian had an interview with their spiritual descendant, Katie Hopkins, and gave as good as he got. But he certainly got some.
“It’s because of people like you that there are people like me,” said Katie, who came across as more intelligent than her writing could ever suggest. “You, the liberal elite, you are Dr Frankenstein, and I am your monster.”
The Crystal Maze – hurrah! – returned, with the same music, similar sets, magically reborn, and a new host, the splendid Richard Ayoade, nicely channelling Richard O’Brien’s mania while bringing his own slacker charm to proceedings, and four relatively endearing “celebrity” contestants, competing in this opener for charidee. And Louie Spence.
Dear God. How I cheered when this simpering, whimpering little prancing gonk of a man was locked in the cage of a game he’d (stupidly) lost in the Aztec Zone. How I wanted to eat my own ears when team cap’n Alex Brooker “bought” him out with a crystal. I thought, briefly, about his being locked in that cage, and my having ever to join him, and surmised, no matter how unfairly, that I’d rather be locked in with La Hopkins.
It’s often said that Italy has managed to get away with its fascist past. There’s no great communal guilt or shame; the country paid a pittance in terms of war reparations. Of course the crimes of Mussolini’s thugs, horrifying as they often were, seem minor when set against the industrialised genocide of the Third Reich. Mussolini was many things, but his racism always felt half-hearted, his antisemitism merely favour-gaining with Hitler.
There’s something else, though. Italy’s resistance to fascism and totalitarian rule was more widespread and well organised than in any other European country (even, arguably, France). The nobility and heroism of the loose nexus of socialists, Freemasons and academics who stood up to Mussolini provided a narrative upon which the country could found its postwar identity. Foremost among the opposition to fascism, there were two portly, bookish, Jewish brothers who shone brightly, briefly, before their early deaths at the hands of the regime. Their names were Carlo and Nello Rosselli.
Caroline Moorehead’s lucid, readable and superbly titled biography of the brothers opens with the murder by fascists of the socialist politician Giacomo Matteotti in June 1924. This, she argues convincingly, was a turning point, both for Italy – it was the beginning of a dark new chapter of political violence – and for the resistance – it was the event that knitted together the disparate strands of dissent. The murder, in which Matteotti was bundled into a car by the fascist secret police, stabbed repeatedly with a carpenter’s file, and dumped in a ditch, inspired lasting outrage among the Italian left, leaving a mark on the young and impressionable Rosselli brothers in particular.
That the Rossellis aren’t typical action heroes gives the story of their reckless heroism and murder added poignancy
After this bloody opening, Moorehead winds back to the birth of the Rossellis’ mother, Amelia Pincherle, in Venice in 1870. The rationale for this is clear: not only was Pincherle the source of her sons’ erudition and idealism, but the book also relies a great deal on her correspondence with the boys, in her wonderful memoir, Memorie, published in 2001.
A deep and fascinating bond appears to have built between Moorehead and Pincherle, so that it’s almost as if the biography is written through the mother’s eyes. Pincherle was a formidable woman, full of the noble spirit of the Risorgimento. She was also the leading Italian playwright of her age, and this lends the book an unusual literary quality. Moorehead’s narrative laces seamlessly between her own voice and that of Amelia, so that there are numerous observations and passages that hum with life. Take for instance, the description of Amelia’s Venetian childhood in which she “turned the chairs in the salotto upside down and pretended that they were gondolas, rowing across a marble lagoon”. Carlo and Nello were also fine letter-writers and authors – the fact that this was a family that cared about words (Alberto Moravia was the boys’ cousin) gives Moorehead’s book a richness and poise that’s rare in a political biography, more novel-like than journalistic.
Like any good biography, A Bold and Dangerous Family is about far more than its subjects, and it’s hard not to feel regular little shivers of horrified contemporary recognition at the rise of the populist demagogue Mussolini. It’s a book about resistance and valour, about Italian life and the uniquely integrated place of the Jewish community within it. Moorehead moves breezily through the history, grounding it in the lives of her protagonists, dropping the reader into key events, so that we feel as an almost personal outrage the lurch from the optimism and inclusiveness of the Risorgimento to the brutality of Mussolini’s rule.
We see Vittorio Orlando, Italy’s prime minister, returning “crushed” from the Treaty of Versailles. We see Mussolini starting off as a socialist, then declaring himself a man of the right, one whose politics would be shaped by “the great, the beautiful, the inexorable violence”. We see the flip-flopping of the opposition to Mussolini (there’s a nice line in the description of the chaotic horse-trading of the pre-fascist era of Italian politics in which Moorehead gives us transformismo – “the hanging on to parliamentary majority through alliances with often incompatible partners” – Theresa May might want to save that one for her next trip to Europe). We see the elections of 1921, in which more than 500 people were killed or wounded. Finally, we see Mussolini assert a terrible and total grip on power through his roving brigades of squadistri. As Carlo put it in a letter to his mother: “An enormous black plague has settled on the body of Italy.”
A picture gradually develops of the boys – Carlo, slightly older, bespectacled and thrusting; Nello, more circumspect and poetic. Both boys were pudgy (when Carlo makes a daring escape from the prison island of Lipari to Tunisia, he’s unable to find clothes that fit him), academic and extraordinarily brave. When the Spanish civil war broke out, Carlo, living in exile in Paris with his family, immediately borrowed a white beret from his wife and went off to fight (with great distinction). Nello met every new trial, trumped-up charge and imprisonment with unquenchable good humour. When we picture the boys in our mind, we always see them smiling.
The fact that the Rossellis aren’t typical action heroes gives the story of their reckless heroism, their insuperable idealism, their tragic double murder, added poignancy. The boys are nerdily immersed in the recondite world of political philosophy (both Benedetto Croce and Antonio Gramsci helped forge their political consciousness). We read that “Carlo returned to London to learn more about guild socialism”; later, Carlo and his English wife Marion Cave go off to a hotel on the lake at Stresa where they spend their time translating letters between Marx and Engels. The image of the brothers, ambushed when helping what they thought was a stranded motorist, set upon by the cagoulards (fascist thugs in thrall to Mussolini), stabbed and shot and then lying dead in each other’s arms, is profoundly touching.
On the news of their death, a group of intellectuals including André Breton and Pablo Picasso signed an open letter saying that if the death of Matteotti had signalled the death of liberty in Italy, that of the Rosselli brothers “signed its death warrant in the whole of Europe”. And yet from the organisations that sprung up around the brothers – the Spanish civil war brigades, the Giustizia e Libertà movement that the boys founded in Parisian exile – came the resistance that would play a crucial role in throwing off the yoke of fascism.
Moorehead’s portrait of the Rosselli brothers is at once a political history of pre-second world war Italy, a beautiful literary portrait of two brave young men, and a gripping tale of intrigue, espionage and escape. There have been a number of fine books about the Rossellis – Stanislao Pugliese’s biography of Carlo is particularly good. None, though, have been this well structured, this readable, this deeply involved in the material of their lives. I finished it impressed, breathless and enormously moved.
• A Bold and Dangerous Family by Caroline Moorehead is published by Chatto & Windus (£20). To order a copy for £15 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
“Better never means better for everyone, it always means worse for some.” So learns Offred as the Margaret Atwood adaptation continues. Most obviously, it’s an idea that finds bleak expression in the denial of freedom visited upon women in theocratic Gilead, but it’s subtly underscored by the backstory of how Offred met her husband. Elsewhere, Fred reveals a penchant for “the old things”, and Serena Joy makes a surprising proposition. Superb. Jonathan Wright
After their various pootles around the waterways of Britain, Timothy West and Prunella Scales have pushed the boat out. They’re in India, tonight travelling up the Brahmaputra River as the series concludes. The actual travel content is generic (monasteries, elephants), but what gives the show its heft is the gentle devotion the couple evidently share, particularly given their openness about their increasing physical and mental fragility. Phil Harrison
Some Rossheads reckon Aidan Turner would make a good Bond, and he gets to do a bit of secret agenting tonight, trying to learn the fate of poor Dr Dwight by gathering intel in a dodgy Brittany pub. But outside in the streets of Roscoff, tops are coming off, and not in a sexy way (Madame Guillotine is hungry). Meanwhile on the Cornish coast, oleaginous George ascends to justice of the peace and targets Sam’s Methodist outreach. Graeme Virtue
It’s pretty clear that they’ve been watching a lot of them there Scandi dramas at ITV towers. For all the excellence brought to this drama, it feels formulaic in its marriage of murder most foul and serenely scenic backdrops. Still, once bitten, you gotta watch. This week, criminal psychologist Albrighton vexes John Sessions’s Smilie still further when he makes public his serial-killer theory. Meanwhile, an unexpected discovery is made outside the village hall. David Stubbs
“If Barbie saw me now, she’d be jealous of me.” And so begins an open-mouthed gawper of a show about “Britain’s human Barbies”. When a woman admits she’s had surgery on her mouth to try to get a permanent smile, you know there’s a backstory or two coming. Of course, each Barbie is transforming herself to forget the past, so there’s sadness behind the surgery. Occasionally, there’s also a “Ken” working hard to help pay for these transformations. Hannah Verdier
Concluding the portrayal of the scientific icon (played by Geoffrey Rush). The man behind the theory of relativity is feeling his own reality bite. His health is failing, his family is departing and his energy is depleted by attention from the House Un-American Activities Committee. Even his beloved pipe eludes his grasp. All seems sour until he renews his academic interest during his last days. Even now, Einstein confounds conventional logic; a second series has been commissioned. Mark Gibbings-Jones
Lots of US TV shows have toyed with Black Lives Matter-themed episodes, but only Shots Fired has made the movement the basis for an entirely new twist on the police procedural genre. Sheriff Platt gives upstart investigator Preston an unwelcome lesson in police work, Governor Eamons launches her new education initiative, and Richard Dreyfuss is coming into his own as a Mr Burns-type, malignant millionaire. It’s the cliches that make it so clever. Ellen E Jones
Her, (Spike Jonze, 2013), 11.05pm, Film4
In a near-future LA, Joaquin Phoenix is lonely Theodore Twombly, who, while painfully breaking up with his wife (Rooney Mara), falls for his new, Scarlett Johansson-voiced computer/mobile operating system, the warmly seductive Samantha. The cyber-affair takes a weird turn when Samantha sets Theodore up with a real woman willing to consummate their relationship. It’s a wry, thought-provoking satire on the absurd possibilities of human-IT interaction – and relationships in general. Paul Howlett
The Last Days on Mars, (Ruairi Robinson, 2013), 11.15pm, Channel 4With space movies and zombie films thriving, how could we not expect a zombies-in-space cinema venture? Robinson’s well-crafted sci-fi adventure has an intriguingly international crew – Liev Schreiber, Romola Garai, Olivia Williams and all – on the last day of a six-month mission to the red planet, when things start to go horribly wrong. Paul Howlett
The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford(Andrew Dominik, 2007), 11.20pm, ITV4It may be a dying genre, but the western can still inspire works of real grandeur and authority. Brad Pitt gives the performance of his career as the outlaw Jesse James, an unstable blend of charisma and killer, with Casey Affleck twitchily affecting as Ford, the hero-worshipper turned assassin. It’s a dark and complex account of an American antihero, the nature of legend, and the downside of fame. Paul Howlett
Formula 1 Motor Racing: The Azerbaijan Grand Prix Coverage of the eighth round of the season, held at the Baku City circuit. 1.35pm, Channel 4
Tennis: Queen’s The Wimbledon warm-up tournament concludes with the men’s final. 2pm, BBC1
T20 Cricket: England v South Africa The final game of the series from the Swalec stadium, Cardiff. 2pm, Sky Sports 2
Georgia May Jagger is pretty stoked to have created a range for cool sports brand Volcom, inspired by skate culture and 70 styling. Available now. Volcom x GMJ range from £35, zalando.co.uk
Feel like you’re losing your edge? Try these vinyl reissues of New York scenesters LCD Soundsystem’s four albums. Buy one for all your friends. Vinyl albums £15.99, store.hmv.com
The world’s first sparkling coconut water. It is micro-filtered, with either a splash of ginger and lemon, or raspberry, and is lightly carbonated, so whether as a mixer or alone, it tastes like a treat. Jax Coco £3.99, selfridges.com
Get in the mood for Pride Month with these shiny, celebratory sequin decorations from Face Lace. Pride Face Lace £10.95, face-lace.com
To celebrate the Hepworth Wakefield’s Howard Hodgkin exhibition, Painting India, which explores the influence of the subcontinent on his work, the gallery and Christopher Farr have produced these limited-edition rugs. Hodgkin rug £2,950 (member’s price £2,655), hepworthwakefield.org
Katie Leamon makes beautiful stationery. The new range is really swirly whirly – though Leamon calls it the Marble Article range. Go figure. Marble Article Notebook £15, katieleamon.com
These dinky wireless headphones don’t sacrifice sound quality for ultra-light design. Plus, they charge in the case, to provide three hours of playtime. Amps Air £149, solrepublic.co.uk
Time was when Foo Fighters would play a festival tent and have fans scaling the poles in order to get to glimpse them. From the ashes of Nirvana rose a neo-grunge band whose joyous melodies and ebullient punk energy charted a new course through alt.rock: anthemic but with a low-slung grittiness. Decades on, as Saturday’s Pyramid stage headliners, there isn’t that same sense of urgency, only the odd hint of what – apart from their legacy – once made them so special.
The night begins with a nod to what might have been two years ago, when the Foos were slated to headline Friday night at Glastonbury 2015. Days before, tousle-haired frontman Dave Grohl broke his leg on stage in Sweden, bumping up Florence + the Machine to the top of the bill. Florence played a Foos song, Times Like These, in her barnstorming set, so Grohl pays generous tribute by playing it back to her. And then the band come crashing in.
They deliver a “rollercoaster” of a set, says Grohl, and he’s not wrong: at times he and his smartly shirted rockers – including human smile Pat Smear and long-time Foos guitarist Chris Shiflett – feel so deeply entrenched in MOR balladry that any throwback song feels like a rare treat. Their latter-day choruses are the kind now heard on football terraces; as if to underline the monster they’ve created, the huge crowd won’t stop singing the “whoa-oh-oh” refrain to their breakup ballad Best of You, somewhere in the middle of their set. At first the show seems to seamlessly tie together their riffy bangers; but then it begins to chug, weighed down by their so-called “slow dance songs” (Wheels) and Walk.
And yet you cannot fault Foos’ fierceness. They play most songs, however underwhelming, with the gusto of a group having their first garage band practice. Drummer Taylor Hawkins in particular is mesmerising – whenever the camera closes in on his gurning face, sweat is flying, along with his unrivalled drum fills, and it’s especially fun when he swaps drums for the main mic with Grohl to sing a cover of Bowie’s Under Pressure. Other minor highlights: My Hero is dedicated to Michael and Emily Eavis, as well as Katy Perry; whenever they have a jam, which looks like they still genuinely enjoy rocking out (quite often); the unexpected accordion solo from key player Rami Jaffee.
Grohl is still the ever-charismatic frontman, feeding the crowd lines between songs about having a party, how the crowd are “fucking beautiful”, and, of how they want to carry on playing a little longer and their audience should stay till the bitter end, “I understand that the EDM tent is going to be full…” It’s as if he hasn’t clocked that they are part of the same commercial coin. But perhaps there’s hope yet. New song Run from forthcoming ninth album Concrete and Gold takes a surprisingly gnarly turn, with a bassline that ploughs sexy new depths and luxuriates in some major fretwork in the breakdown, as if Grohl is channeling Led Zeppelin and Queens of the Stone Age.
Their vintage songs are the ones that still hit hardest – and those are not just the words of a nostalgia bore. They dedicate closing track Everlong to “Laura” – presumably Laura Plane, a teacher from Devon, a lifelong Foos fan who recently died after a cancer battle and whose husband Grohl had reached out to. As the fireworks fizz in the background, it’s a reminder of the true emotional pull the band can have.
He’s funny, acerbic and his flow unspools as easily as liquid mercury but perhaps not enough credit has been given to just how weird Long Beach rapper Vince Staples can be. Staples’s second album nods to wonky rave, fractured electronica and bass that sounds like it’s ricocheting around a crater, as if he’s opened the zip named “Vince Staples” and picked out the weirdest instrumentals in there (by names like the Edward Scissorhands of beats, SOPHIE, electro-funker Jimmy Edgar and, er, Bon Iver). It would be easy to cry “hipster bait” – Kendrick Lamar, Damon Albarn and A$AP Rocky also feature – but it makes for a challenging, dystopian listen, the blade runner to everyone else’s replicant. Party People is a topsy-turvy banger about death and destruction; the Lamar-starring Yeah Right clatters with industrial menace; BagBak channels the bleakness more directly with its lyric: “Tell the government to suck a dick because we own ya.” Staples might not own everyone quite yet but Big Fish Theory suggests he’s well on the way.
Let’s not tempt fate, but at the time of writing, this year’s Glastonbury looks set to be a relatively sun-soaked experience, very different from the mixture of Brexit misery and mud that characterised last year’s festival. With any luck, these words will be read by people spending long, languid hours sitting on the grass, staring into blue skies – and, from time to time, reaching for a book.
But what to read? Start, maybe, with one of the best music-based texts of the last two years: Playing The Bass With Three Left Hands by Will Carruthers (Faber). A beautifully written memoir of the time when the author was a member of the neo-psychedelic bands Spacemen 3 and Spiritualized, it portrays musty-smelling bohemia in the thrillingly unlikely environs of Rugby, the privations of being a musician while constantly skint, and summer weekends playing fifth on the bill at British festivals. The title comes from Carruthers’s recollection of taking LSD before a performance in Leeds, where he hallucinated that he had grown two extra limbs. “This made perfect sense to me at the time,” he writes, “Three hands are better than none, right?” Then comes the kicker: “I got paid 15 quid for that show.”
Similar anecdotal magic is sprinkled through Lizzy Goodman’s recently published Meet Me in the Bathroom (Dey Street), an oral history of the New York rock milieu that included the Strokes, the Yeah Yeahs Yeahs and Interpol. The usual rock’n’roll staples – drugs, hedonism, nervous crackups – are here, but so too is the overlooked story of the cultural impact of 9/11, and the way it gave thousands of Manhattanites the sense of a common generational identity. The story is 600 pages long, but you’ll probably whizz through it in a matter of days.
Glastonbury is not all about music, and just as Brexit coloured the mood last year, the aftershocks of this year’s mind-boggling general election are sure to be one of this year’s big themes. Jeremy Corbyn is speaking on the Pyramid stage and at the politically inclined Left Field: if you want to get to grips with the more creative aspects of the new movement he has catalysed, have a look at Inventing the Future: Postcapitalism and a World Without Work (Verso) by Nick Srnicek and Alex Williams, who turn rising concerns about automation into the foundation of a brilliantly utopian kind of politics. Theirs is a vision of technology re-routed to serve human purposes, and a society that might look a bit like the communal idyll that takes over a small corner of Somerset every year.
On Sunday at 1.30pm, the Left Field will host an onstage interview with the world-renowned Turkish novelist Elif Shafak (just to declare an interest, I’m doing it). She’ll be talking about cultural resistance to the nasty populism embodied by her native country’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, the aftermath of Brexit, and her brilliant body of fiction – the latest addition to which is Three Daughters of Eve (Viking), a story about memory, family and an Istanbul whose collective mindset has been warped by incipient tyranny. “Madness coursed through this city’s streets, like an intoxicating drug in the bloodstream,” she writes. “Every day millions downed another dose, not realising they were becoming more and more unbalanced.” Few authors have such an incisive grasp of the 21st century’s fraught, fretful ambience: hearing her talk about where the world might go next will be fascinating.
And so on to where the world has already been, and a stone-cold classic. Whenever and wherever I’ve ventured out this year, I’ve packed Joan Didion’s strangely topical The White Album (FSG Classics), the collection of essays focused on the 1960s and early 1970s, which begins with her evocation of a breakdown she obviously suspected was a reaction to a world gone mad. “I was supposed to have a script, and had mislaid it,” she writes. “I was supposed to hear cues, and no longer did. I was meant to know the plot, but all I knew was what I saw: flash pictures in variable sequence, images with no ‘meaning’ beyond their temporary arrangement, not a movie but a cutting-room experience.” She was writing about the America of the Manson murders, the Black Panthers and Vietnam – but what she wrote also suggests auguries of our time, when most attempts to bring meaning to the world founder.
Sometimes, the best thing to do in response is to simply get lost in music, an experience beautifully evoked by my Guardian colleague Richard Williams’s The Blue Moment (Faber). It’s the story of Miles Davis’s 1959 classic Kind Of Blue, and how its influence has lived on, through no end of musical generations. It would ideally be read in the lulls between Glastonbury’s onstage attractions – while, with any luck, luxuriating in those aforementioned azure skies.
• John Harris is the author of The Last Party: Britpop, Blair and the Demise of English Rock (Harper).
It is a critical commonplace to begin an essay about essays with etymology. Essay: noun, from the French essayer, verb, to try. Next is the requisite hat-tip to Michel de Montaigne, Renaissance philosopher and one-time mayor of Bordeaux, who is considered to have been the first great essayist; his Essais, published in 1580, includes disquisitions on, among other things, idleness, liars, imagination, pedantry, the custom of wearing clothes, sleep, names, drunkenness and smells. “I know too well how that particular essay on essays gets written,” Brian Dillon writes in his new book, Essayism, refusing to rehearse these familiar ideas, even as he mentions them.
Over the course of this meditation on that most elegant and slippery of forms, he identifies some “combination of exactitude and evasion” at the heart of it, an inner “conflict”, whereby it “aspires to express the quintessence or crux of its matter … to a sort of polish and integrity”, while also insisting “that its purview is partial, that being incomplete is a value in itself for it better reflects the brave and curious but faltering nature of the writing mind”. The essay has to convey mastery while admitting partiality. This is very hard to do well.
Dillon suggests that we cannot define the essay, but that we might more productively gesture at some quality of essayism: a certain texture, a style, a voice, an “experiment in attention”. The essay will – and by its nature must – always resist attempts to pin it down. It refuses to be contained by any neat summary; it is “diverse and several – it teems”.
Dillon himself is a superbly varied essayist; the author of a range of books about photography, hypochondriacs, the great explosion at a munitions factory in Faversham, Kent, in 1916, and another written in 24 hours called I Am Sitting in a Room, his lines of inquiry are the body and its afflictions, contemporary art and literature, the history of place and ruins. He has a natural affinity for the essay “as a kind of conglomerate: an aggregate either of diverse materials or disparate ways of saying the same or similar things”. Lists are a wonderful tactic of essayism – consider Georges Perec’s astonishing lists in Species of Spaces, from the food and drink he consumed in 1974 to the objects on his desk. Dillon helps us see, via Joan Didion in The White Album, the list as incomplete, the very act of making a list a gesture at what cannot be listed or will always be left out: “the list, if it’s doing its job, always leaves something to be invented or recalled, something forgotten in the moment of its making”.
Then there are aphorisms, the intellectual acrobatics that go into establishing some apparently immutable, essential truth. The aphorist declares that x is y; “Or better, according to the writer’s need to surprise the reader: x is actually y. Still more effectively: x is, after all, only y.” Dillon argues earnestly for aphorists to turn away from this fetish for essence or assertion and to instead fill that space with “desire” and urgency. He quotes Emil Cioran: “No need to elaborate works – merely say something that can be murmured in the ear of a drunkard or a dying man.”
One of the marks of a great essayist is to be able to see connections
The essays that he most admires, Dillon writes, are those “that pay the minutest or most sustained attention to one thing, one time or place, one strain or strand of existence. An essay that performs its mode of attention …” He offers by way of example the art critic TJ Clark writing in his book The Sight of Death about looking repeatedly at two paintings by Poussin, paying “too much attention to these works”, recording the failures in what can be seen at any one moment. Dillon then moves on to Perec’s An Attempt at Exhausting a Place in Paris, which similarly records the impossibility of noting everything happening in the Place Saint-Sulpice on a series of afternoons in 1974; it is a testament to Dillon’s sharp critical eye that he can move from Clark to Perec in this way. One of the marks of a great essayist is to be able to see connections.
Where his earlier essay collection, Objects in This Mirror, took on myriad subjects – from the art of Robert Smithson to Victorian rhetoric manuals, from cravat-tying manuals to what it means to be ill – this one is a collection of essays on essays, part literary critical appreciation of writers such as William Gass and Elizabeth Hardwick, part belle lettristic exploration of the essence of a genre. But Dillon does not shy away from letting us in, obliquely but unmistakably, to his own personal struggles with depression and anxiety. In these more personal passages, he resembles a critic, wary of “overstating”his case. He needn’t worry: written in lucid, exacting and unsentimental prose, Essayism is a vital book for people who turn to art – and especially writing – for consolation.
As the book draws to its conclusion, it must confront another habit of the merely competent essay: the way such a piece of writing returns, too neatly, to an initial premise or image. This, too, raises Dillon’s critical hackles. “I like circles and lines and symmetry too, more than is good for me as a writer and as a human.” But that kind of circularity is the opposite of genuine essayistic thought, he maintains. And so Essayism ends with an unglossed quote from William Carlos Williams: an appropriate stopping point for a book about a form that, at its best, refuses to conclude, but above all invites in, opens up, opens out.
• Essayism is published by Fitzcarraldo. To order a copy for £9.34 (RRP £10.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
• Lauren Elkin’s Flaneuse is published by Vintage.
If any decade could be described as low and dishonest, it’s surely the present one. First the Brexit vote, then Trump, and just recently an unnecessary and profligate general election. Given the acres of news analysis, and the glacial pace of publishing, how might a novelist address any of this? Ali Smith’s Autumn and Amanda Craig’s The Lie of the Land navigate Britain’s post-referendum landscape, but so far rapid-response fiction has been rare.
Anthony Cartwright’s The Cut, published a year after the vote, is unique in that it was commissioned by Peirene (better known for short fiction in translation) specifically to explore Brexit. Following logically from his novels such as Heartland and Iron Towns, set in his native Midlands, Cartwright’s diamond-sharp novella digs deep into the political quagmire, dramatising the referendum’s opposing ideological standpoints via a man and a woman from very different class backgrounds. This is England as two distinct nations, both trying, but failing, to understand the other.
Cairo Jukes is an ex-boxer reduced to “tatting” – zero-hour contract labour digging up copper pipes from the Black Country’s lost industrial heyday. His life is spent trying to stay out of the pub and keep in touch with his daughter and mixed-race grandchild. As the referendum approaches, dividing opinion nationwide, Grace Trevithick, a documentary maker from Hampstead, arrives in Dudley, intent on interviewing Cairo and his cronies. Initially hostile to this middle-class interloper (“He wanted to say something, about the sense of his world being made invisible, mute”), Cairo unexpectedly finds Grace a rejuvenating force. She is equally attracted to him, forcing them both to re-evaluate their stances on Brexit along the way.
Hard though it is to explore such a complex political situation through only two juxtaposed lives and locations, Cartwright mostly manages to make Cairo and Grace transcend stereotype, allowing tiny details to speak for themselves. Mordant ironies abound, distilling backstories that a longer novel might have laboured over. While Grace swims in Hampstead ponds, thinking idly of a family “tea set in the attic … all the way from India”, Cairo’s daughter lives in a world where people burgle houses for “a bit of change … money for the kids’ sweets or the bingo”. Cairo’s boss is shown “in his German car and his Leave sticker, in his Italian shirts”, while flowers planted on a roundabout are “EU-funded”.
These are vividly imagined lives, rendered with the concise strokes of an experienced portraitist
Cartwright’s strategy of show-not-tell in defining the two antithetical nations reaps rewards: when Cairo’s interview “came on the telly, they played subtitles for everyone to read, like he wasn’t speaking English at all”. The book’s centrepiece – a fracas in a Dudley curry house where Ukip activists hold their regular Friday meetings – is also quietly emblematic of leave voters’ hypocrisy on the subject of immigration. Indeed, Cartwright demonstrates how “this carrying on about foreigners”, as Cairo’s daughter puts it, and a working-class aversion to a metropolitan elite (“I bet the people writing these papers don’t vote to leave, I bet they live in fancy houses in London”), irrevocably muddied the waters of the debate.
Though only 129 pages long, The Cut is far from slight. These are vividly imagined lives, rendered with the concise strokes of an experienced portraitist. With alternating chapters titled “Before” and “After”, Cartwright presents pre-referendum Britain as almost prelapsarian, before a cataract of latent racism and xenophobia was unleashed. He is also careful to show how the working class were lazily vilified post-vote as somehow solely responsible for these responses. Everything is tautly resonant, each detail chosen to maximise conflict and our reflection on it; from the choice of Grace’s profession (the prurient camera eye intruding into hardscrabble lives), to the book’s title, which alludes variously to the severance of the vote, the cuts of austerity, Cairo’s boxing wounds and, poetically, the canals that cut through the Midlands, a reminder of a time when “there was work for all the men”.
In certain respects, The Cut recalls the social problem novels of the 19th century, such as Dickens’s Hard Times or Disraeli’s Sybil. Interesting times, to invoke the fabled curse, demand that novelists address them urgently, and Cartwright has risen to the challenge. Great social change and division are sometimes best seen through the prism of fictional lives. Only there can class division be succinctly revealed in something as telling as an ex-boxer’s lexicon. As Grace reflects: “‘The idea that the land and the people are indivisible’ was something Cairo had said. Indivisible: a word he probably didn’t use very often.”
• Jude Cook’s Byron Easy is published by Windmill. To order The Cut for £10.20 (RRP £12) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
My colleague just popped up on Tinder! Should I swipe yes just to be polite?
Four years ago, over dinner, my friend showed me a new app on her phone. It served up an endless parade of faces: single men, in our area. I was scandalised.
That that anecdote has already taken on a timeworn quality, like people’s first memories of colour television, is testament to just how mainstream location-based dating apps have become since Tinder pioneered the form in 2012.
Now there’s Happn, which prioritises people you often cross paths with. Hinge, which has made itself over into the “relationship app”. Bumble, where the woman must make first contact and has only 24 hours to do so.
Unless you’ve been in a monogamous relationship for the last half decade (in which case, congrats #couplegoals), you’ve probably used at least one of them. And even then, you’ve probably had a friend or colleague, exhausted by the limitless options ostensibly available to them, outsource their swiping to you.
Among younger people in particular, dating apps have become normalised in a way that formal services such as OKCupid and Match.com haven’t – a low-maintenance, light-hearted way of signalling that you’re open to meeting new people, and whatever fun and flirty opportunity may come your way.
my grandma: dating in this day in age must be so convenientdating in this day in age: pic.twitter.com/lL5OOUVZam
In reality, that is scores of messages saying “hey”; conversations that fizzle out after a couple of days; or one or two in-person meetings concluded by unspoken mutual agreement. The banality of dating apps is often lost in the discussion, being less titillating to a mainstream audience than handwringing over the risk they might pose to our safety and psyches.
Of course, connections facilitated through apps sometimes end in tragedy. But mostly criticism combines technophobia and morality policing over casual sex, and distracts from the real issues, like: what do you do when a coworker comes up? Or someone you know to be in a long-term relationship?
*Installs Tinder**sees someone I know**accidentally super likes**tries to clarify in messenger**sends "I ♥️ my son" sticker by accident*
The ubiquity of dating apps has resulted in new etiquettes and anxieties that often get derailed by questions about whether they’re ruining the millennial generation’s capacity to love. As an irregular user of Tinder, this causes me less concern than the politics of swiping on people I know “in real life”. Should you give your workmate an affirmative right-swipe just to be friendly?
The answer seems obvious: only if you’re open to having sex with them – or having them think you are.
It’s arguably a snub to ignore someone you know on Tinder, just as it would be if you were to blank them at a bar, but I personally suggest weathering the consequences – the risk of your polite hello being misinterpreted is just too high.
i matched with my coworker on tinder. will this end badly? probably! am i going to play it out? absolutely!
I just matched with my cousin on tinder and I don't know whether to be mad at her or myself. Lol
One of the problems with dating apps is that the meaning of a match can be ambiguous. Tinder, in particular, is at pains to stress its potential for forging “connections” of all kinds – some users really are looking to make friends. Food & Wine magazine just argued it was an “essential travel tool” for finding hot restaurants, which may be news to many users.
WIFE: where should we eatME: [opens up Tinder] see honey, this is for finding restaurants while traveling https://t.co/wnJyomMppx
It’s no wonder wires get crossed when the nature of the platform may influence how your intention is interpreted, even if you explicitly spell it out.
Until recently my bio stated that I was “not looking for serious relationships”, which to me spoke of casual, irregular dinner dates with no expectations as to where they might go. Then my worldly friend explained I was in fact explicitly asking for one-night stands – not at all what I’d imagined of my appeal for someone to go to the cinema with whenever there was something good on.
Panicked, I overcompensated by detailing my circumstances and expectations with some specificity. My bio is now longer than any I’ve ever seen on Tinder. A teenage friend recently looked at it askance, then said matter-of-factly: “I guess it’s different on adult Tinder.”
Another aberration of “adult Tinder” is the quandary posed when someone you know to be happily coupled comes across your screen – more often than you’d think, with a wedding photo on their profile.
When someone you know super likes you on tinder but their social media says they're still in a relationship pic.twitter.com/orxVUtMYlG
The guilelessness of this supports a common explanation that is just about plausible: that people in relationships give in to their curiosity and download Tinder to see what the fuss is about, then delete it from their phone – not realising that they have to delete their account to stop their profile from being served up to singles in their area.
Many Tinder users also don’t know it’s possible to see a list of their own Facebook friends who are also on the app, through the irregularly used “Tinder Social” function. My colleague just tried this and found three people he understood to be married, and 10 in long-term relationships.
Again, interpretation trumps intention. Many times, I’ve been messaged a tentative inquiry of a mutual friend: “Did so-and-so break up, or ... ?”
People on tinder be putting pictures of their wife and kids like hello im here looking for a guy & not a family to adopt me smh
In general, I’m not in favour of addressing unexpected dating app appearances unless you are certain their presence there is unintentional and they’d be grateful to you for bringing it up. Misunderstandings are likely: what if they’ve decided to open up their relationship? Or they’ve just separated and not gone public about it yet?
Any offline acknowledgement of dating app interactions is usually awkward. I heard of a woman being told by a coworker she’d come up for him on Tinder, and he’d liked her – had she seen him yet, would she do the same? It was intensely uncomfortable, and even more so when he brought it up again days later.
It speaks to a truth universally acknowledged of dating apps: that they’re best used to meet people you don’t already know. Still, it will always be a somewhat contrived connection until you’ve spent some time together in person.
For this reason, I’m in favour of resisting the temptation to do a deep-dive on your date on Google or grill your mutual friends for intel before you meet for the first time. For all their popularity, dating apps are still a fundamentally unnatural means of meeting people: do what you can to leave yourself open to surprise, to serendipity.
Is there a not-awful way to ask someone to refrain from googling you before your first date?Asking for a friend.
More important is the risk of accidentally exposing yourself by mentioning their recent holiday to the Philippines, or their overly communicative ex. Save the online investigation for before the second date, when you can say, “You told me last time,” if they raise an eyebrow.
‘This is Ron,’ Harry told Hagrid, who was pouring boiling water into a large teapot and putting rock cakes onto a plate.
‘Another Weasley, eh?’ said Hagrid, glancing at Ron’s freckles. ‘I spent half me life chasin’ your brothers away from the Forest.’
The rock cakes almost broke their teeth, but Harry and Ron pretended to be enjoying them as they told Hagrid all about their first lessons.
Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone, JK Rowling
---
26 June 2017 marks 20 years since the first Harry Potter novel was released. In serendipitous timing, I was already reading The Philosopher’s Stone this month: my nannying charges have finally decided to start the series. I’ve been spending bedtimes reading chapters aloud (giving truly appalling voices to Hagrid and Professor McGonagall), and relishing the chance to see the books through their fresh eyes. I know the stories so well at this point, almost by heart; it’s been a true joy rediscovering them through someone else.
I first read The Philosopher’s Stone under the covers, long after my dad thought I was asleep. When I was 11, I wrote to JK Rowling, desperate to know whether there was an Australian school for witches and wizards. In secondary school, I reread the books when school exam stress threatened to overwhelm me. I devoured the seventh in a single day, just after my 21st birthday.
And now 30, and miles away from my family, the series still comforts me when I am homesick, lonely, or anxious. I know I am not alone in this. It’s a story I have heard from many others of my age: these books, and these characters, have grown with us and become part of us, in a way few others have.
Twenty years ago, when I was learning to cook, I made a lot of rock cakes. At their best, they’re somewhere between a biscuit and a scone - light and buttery, and full of sweet dried fruit. The trick is not to overmix or overbake them. Hagrid’s are more rock than cake – try to avoid that.
Makes 8
Ingredients250g plain flour75g light brown sugar2tsp baking powderPinch salt125g unsalted butter75g dried cherries125g sultanasZest of a lemon1 egg3tbsp single cram1tsp vanilla25g caster sugar
EquipmentMixing bowlJugForkBaking trayGreaseproof paper
1. Preheat the oven to 160C. Mix the flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt in a bowl. Rub in the butter using your fingertips, until the mixture resembles breadcrumbs. Toss the fruit and zest through, until evenly dispersed.
2. Whisk together the egg, cream, and vanilla. Pour this into the dry ingredients, and mix through with a fork, and then your hands, until you have a batter. Don’t overmix - as soon as there are no floury bits, stop mixing.
3. Pull the dough from the bowl in eight evenly sized chunks. Keeping them rough, place onto lined baking trays, and sprinkle with caster sugar.
4. Bake for 12-15 minutes, until golden. Allow to cool, and then serve within a day or so; stale rock cakes are, as Harry and Ron discovered, particularly unappetising.
All sitcoms must arrive here eventually: an episode where the whole gang visit a safari park, with near-death consequences. But the Count makes everything his own by playing on the pseudo-paternal bond between the two leads. Either can be the dad and today it’s Arthur (Steve Delaney), taking Michael (Rory Kinnear) on a well-meant but disastrously cheap birthday trip. As they go, comic seeds are, as always, deftly planted for harvesting later. Jack Seale
As part of a recently commissioned raft of satires across all BBC TV channels (including brand new series for Frankie Boyle and Philomena Cunk), Tracey Ullman impersonates Theresa May, Nicola Sturgeon, Angela Merkel and Melania Trump for this one-off political show dealing with the (utter) state of the world and the fallout from the most surreal general election in quite some time. Ali Catterall
Isn’t it a bit early for Peter Kay to be looking back over his career? Which is, incidentally, a compliment, a way to suggest that Car Share reveals a man who, even after 20 years of success, hasn’t lost his ear for the vernacular; the Alan Bennett of austerity Britain perhaps? That said, any show that features clips from Kay’s shows, highlights of his chatshow jawmongering and his music videos has to be worth a look. Jonathan Wright
After last year’s enjoyable revival, this 90s gameshow favourite is back for a full series with Richard Ayoade presenting. He isn’t bald, but he does have the second most crucial quality for a Crystal Maze presenter: a funny run. Tonight’s guests include Ore Oduba, Vicky Pattison, Alex Brooker, Lydia Bright and Louie Spence but the names don’t really matter. This isn’t about the celebs or even the nostalgia; it’s just proper good fun for a proper good cause. Ellen E Jones
It’s Radiohead night at Worthy Farm and the BBC is throwing the kitchen sink at the dour but occasionally transcendent Oxford five-piece. Thom and the lads will be live on the Pyramid Stage but first, Mark Radcliffe and Lauren Laverne look back over the band’s 23-year association with the festival with, one imagines, emphasis on the 1997 set that catapulted them into the big league. Phil Harrison
The wife-shipping drama concludes in lavish style. A new boat load of women arrives, which leaves Verity feeling wistful and Jocelyn worried that the real reason why she went to America is about to be exposed. James decides it’s time to buy himself a wife, but first there are deals to be done that not everyone will embrace. While a party to celebrate the harvest is in full swing, there’s a chilling sign that times are changing. Hannah Verdier
This festival is ironically and aptly named: it’s thanks to the rise of downloading that the live circuit, rather than album sales, is where it’s at for big bands these days. This rebranded Donington festival brings a host of veteran rock monsters to muddy Leicestershire, including Boston’s Aerosmith who’ve been growing old disgracefully for years, heavy metallurgists System of a Down and Scottish rockers Biffy Cyro. Part two airs on Saturday night. David Stubbs
Bridget Jones’s Baby (Sharon Maguire, 2016) 12.15pm, 8pm, Sky Cinema PremiereAfter the silly Thailand shenanigans in The Edge of Reason, cinema’s most lovable diarist returns to ramshackle London life. Renée Zellweger’s Bridget is now a producer for a cable TV company; Patrick Dempsey’s Jack is her new beau, but Colin Firth’s awkward Darcy is still around, and Bridget has had a little accident in the birth-control department. It all makes for a good-natured comedy. Paul Howlett
Tennis: Queen’s 1pm, BBC2. Coverage from the grass court Wimbledon warm-up continues with the men’s quarters.
Horse Racing: Royal Ascot 1.30pm, ITV. Day four of the meeting including the Coronation Stakes.
International T20 Cricket: England v South Africa 4.30pm, Sky Sports 2. The second game of a three-match series, this time from Taunton.
John Di Domenico looks nothing like Donald Trump: he’s 17 years younger, several inches shorter and a natural brunet, though lately he keeps his head shaved to make putting on the coppery wig easier, and his eyebrows bleached to match. Becoming Trump requires a full hour of hair and makeup. He tapes three large photographs of the president, one in profile and two straight-on, to any mirror he’s using, and then uses Ben Nye CoCo Tan foundation to turn his skin the requisite shade of atomic tangerine, dabs on wrinkles, lengthens his nose, and so on. Trump has “quite a big head,” but there’s not much anyone can do about that.
Even with the elaborate costume, Di Domenico’s physical resemblance to the president requires a little imagination – but of the many people who “do” Trump, his take is the most uncanny. It’s the voice. He recreates the uncommon way that Trump, to use Di Domenico’s phrase, “speaks from his teeth”; the wild fluctuations of nasality; the inconsistent New York accent; the sibilant “S”s and exaggerated vowels. He has also mastered the neck jerk, the squint, the off-tilt swagger. When Conan O’Brien and Chelsea Handler needed a Trump for their late-night talk shows, they called Di Domenico, and he has also become a regular on Fox News’s morning talk show.
Di Domenico enjoys the appearances on Fox and ABC, the cameos on Glenn Beck’s radio show, the invitations to do adverts and spoof films, but he makes his living at corporate events, trade shows and private parties. He’s the guy executives hire to keep middle management amused at national sales meetings, or to provide a little excitement at the launch party of a flu-reduction medicine. He’s the booth decoration that gets passersby interested in your carpet company. He is the entertainment. He can do Guy Fieri and Jay Leno and Austin Powers and Dr Evil, but for the last decade his trademark impression has been Trump. At the peak of the 2016 campaign, that one impression earned him as much as $40,000 a month.
Whenever Di Domenico appears in public in costume, people turn and gawk. They pull out their phones to take video, or they laugh spontaneously. “Oh my god,” they say. Or, breathlessly, “Donald!”
One afternoon in March, exiting a New York hotel, the sight of Di Domenico-as-Trump sent the front desk manager into a fit of giggles that verged on a panic attack. “Oh my god,” the guy kept saying, trying to catch his breath. “No way.” Faux Trump squinted, aimed a presidential finger in the man’s direction, and agreed to a selfie.
In the photograph, Di Domenico has his chest and gut thrown out, as if he’s leading from the widest point of his red sateen tie. The wig crests low over his brow. He’s flashing a presidential thumbs-up with one hand, his head is cocked to one side so his eyes squint unevenly, and his mouth has that protruded, half-open look of an aggravated orangutan. It’s all correct.
Di Domenico handed the man his business card, with details of how to find him on social media. “Tag me,” he said, “You’re terrific.” And left.
Two college-aged guys hanging around stared after him, vaguely stricken. “It’s really good,” said one. His friend nodded and looked around the lobby, presumably for Secret Service agents, or a hidden camera crew. “What the fuck is going on?”
As a professional impersonator, Di Domenico makes his living in an America where, as the historian Daniel J Boorstin wrote in 1962, “fantasy is more real than reality”. We have become, he wrote, the “first people in history to have been able to make their illusions so vivid, so persuasive, so ‘realistic’ that [we] can live in them”. By the time Trump started to appear on the front pages of New York City tabloids in the late 1980s, politics, religion, news, athletics, education and commerce had been “transformed into congenial adjuncts of showbusiness,” as the cultural theorist Neil Postman famously wrote in 1984. Under this new dispensation, celebrities emerged as the unpredictable “real-life” stars of a never-ending show unfolding in real time. Thirty years later, Americans remain so compelled by the power of celebrity to make life feel entertaining and meaningful that we are thrilled by the mere facsimile of a famous person, so long as he conveys a hint of the same magic.
When Trump declared his candidacy, he turned himself into the most visible celebrity in the world, and Di Domenico’s career exploded. By Di Domenico’s estimation, peak demand for Trump impressions came during the election cycle, when Trump’s political aspirations could still be seen as a joke that hadn’t yet arrived at the punchline. Di Domenico worked every day for more than a year. He was soon joined by a cadre of other Donalds: the comedian Anthony Atamanuik, whose work Di Domenico admires (“Trump is all id. Anthony’s Trump is the id on steroids,”); the prolific impressionist Frank Caliendo; Tonight Show host Jimmy Fallon; and, of course, Alec Baldwin on Saturday Night Live. Di Domenico, though, has been doing this for 13 years – longer than any other major Trump impersonator – which not only lends him a bit of godfatherly cred, but also gives his impression singular nuance.
The relationship between the impersonator and the impersonated is a bizarre form of intimacy. Apart from its lopsidedness, the connection is almost spousal, marked by the closeness that comes from living with someone day after day for years and years, memorising their gestures, assimilating their speech patterns. There’s admiration and irritation, conjecture about the other’s intentions and inner life, struggles to keep a separate identity, and the sense of ownership that comes from believing you know a person better than anyone else. It’s a parasitic homage.
Di Domenico keeps inside him, nested like matryoshka dolls, all the many selves Trump has fashioned in the last 30 years: Trump the businessman on CNN silkily telling Larry King in 1989 that his breath stinks; Trump the reality television star firing Cyndi Lauper on The Celebrity Apprentice in 2010; Trump the candidate declaring that he could stand on 5th Avenue in New York and shoot someone without losing a vote. Di Domenico talks about Trump with the same casual authority he displays when talking about himself. “He’s gained a lot of weight lately,” he’ll remark offhandedly. Or, “Nah, he doesn’t have OCD. Or he has selective OCD.” Frequently, Trump’s cadence will sneak its way into Di Domenico’s speech: a nasal vowel, a “tremendous”.
Every morning, Di Domenico reads the news, scanning for any stories or new behaviours he needs to incorporate. He can list and demonstrate Trump’s most common gestures, most of which only appeared when he entered political life. There’s “the T-Rex”, when he plasters his forearms to his sides and waves his stiff hands back and forth, as if conducting a tiny, mad choir. There’s “the OK” – slightly effete, open-handed, with the thumb and forefinger pinched together and the wrist cocked and loose. And “the Hi”, where Di Domenico reaches out his right arm and tilts the hand up in greeting. Then there’s “the Heil Hitler” – here he straightens his wrist – “though he’s stopped doing that. I think someone told him to stop doing that”.
Trump’s mannerisms have changed over time more dramatically than any other character Di Domenico has attempted. “It’s a much bigger repertoire now than it used to be,” he says. Trump used to speak softly; his expressions were typically phlegmatic, and his gestures were minimal. “For the most part he was in controlled situations – a hotel opening, or a show where he was the boss.” People were deferential and obsequious. No one was openly mocking him to his face, or accusing him of lying about his wealth and success.
Once the Republican primary debates began, Trump’s expressions changed. He debuted “the get-outta-here hand wave, the sceptical squint – any way he could discredit, dissociate, discount somebody”, Di Domenico told me. He demonstrated in quick succession the elastic facial exercises indicating exaggerated disgust: eye rolls, shrugs, clicking the tongue off the top of the mouth as if to get rid of a bad taste. These theatrical gestures subtly kept Trump in control of the exchange – when it was Jeb Bush’s time to speak during the debates, the cameras were still on Trump.
When people meet Di Domenico in his Trump costume, it’s not always clear that they know the difference between reality and fiction, or that they care. In the months leading up to the election, at corporate events all over the country, men in business casual would lean in and whisper in his ear, “I think you’re great. My wife hates you but I think you’re great. I haven’t told her I’m voting for you.” Women would squeeze close to him and murmur, “Will you grab my pussy?”
Di Domenico knows things about the American electorate that pollsters and pundits cannot. During the campaign, people’s responses to his impression resembled the pure wonderment of children seeing Santa Claus at the mall: they knew it wasn’t the real one, but still they felt moved to confess their hopes and griefs as if it were. He had expected this in “red” states such as Texas and Arkansas, but was startled to encounter the same in San Francisco and Chicago. People he expected to loathe Trump quietly adored him. At a meeting of people working in healthcare in New York City, he polled the crowd to see who was voting to “make America great again”, and the whole room cheered. (“After this year, I will never be surprised by anything. About anybody,” he told me.) He grew used to men in HILLARY FOR JAIL T-shirts asking him while posing for selfies, “Are you gonna lock that cunt up?”
Such questions require delicate answers from Di Domenico, who usually resorts to saying essentially nothing – in a perfectly Trumpian way. “I’m gonna do what I can, I’m gonna do what I can,” he says in the familiar babbling rhythm. Or, “She deserves it, don’t you think she deserves it?” He never echoes their language. It would be consummately not his manner, which is mild and aims to please – and he usually has a contract that forbids obscenities. “They can say whatever they want to me, but I won’t …” he trailed off. He told me about one woman who grabbed his balls, though he wasn’t sure whether this was retribution for Trump’s pussy-grabbing or another sexual advance. “I let people choke me,” he said calmly. “Whatever you wanna do. If it’s funny, you’re not going to hurt me.”
On election night, Di Domenico worked a party with 800 guests. He walked the grounds of a mansion filled with people wearing Crooked Hillary hats, Make America Great Again ice sculptures, Build a Wall T-shirts. “I was just blown away,” he said. Later, just as he was about to post a selfie from the party, he noticed a sign behind him in the photograph that made him stop: “Trump for President: Make America White Again.”
When the results came in, he wasn’t surprised.
Di Domenico was raised in an outer suburb of Philadelphia named Ambler, a town whose biggest claim to fame at the time was that it housed the largest asbestos factory in America. He grew up playing “on the Moon”, which is what kids called the 25-acre lot of asbestos waste in town, and studying two types of people: actors and businessmen. “Coming from where I come from – my dad was a steel worker with a ninth-grade education – I always just wanted to get the fuck out of Ambler and have money! Have a life!” he told me. “Not have to worry about ‘I can buy this shirt or I can eat’.”
Power and money, and the people who had both, seemed perpetually elsewhere. As a young man, he felt wistful for the era of Carnegies and Rockefellers, when businessmen were public figures and statesmen, or the era of old Hollywood and its glamour. The first album he bought was by the comedian David Frye, who did impressions of influential men of the mid-century, most famously Richard Nixon. Di Domenico also had a severe speech impediment as a kid, one that vanished for the first time when he mimicked Frye doing Nixon. He started experimenting with other voices, and found that whenever he spoke as other people, he spoke cleanly. He decided to be an actor.
Di Domenico went to Philadelphia to study drama around the same time that Donald Trump started appearing in those New York tabloids with nameless models and showing up in New York Times headlines about his work to refurbish the derelict Wollman Rink in Central Park. (The Wollman Rink deal, at the time, was perceived to be an act of great personal generosity, and the triumph of the private sector over ineffectual government oversight.) Trump was no Carnegie, but he was a new kind of celebrity businessman: he had the success, the glitz and the cosmopolitanism that Di Domenico wanted for his own life. Trump’s business was construction, which was reminiscent of working-class Ambler, but he was building towers of glass in Manhattan. Especially after the Wollman Rink deal, he presented himself as a genius at turning trash into gold. Trump understood, as the cultural critic Neal Gabler would later write, “that in an entertainment-driven society, celebrity was among the most effective tools of salesmanship, and that consequently a businessman’s job was not only the management of assets, but the management of image”.
Di Domenico was, if not envious, then watchful. He subscribed to Success magazine. His first wife gave him Trump’s ghostwritten memoir The Art of the Deal for Christmas in 1987, the year it came out, inscribed with a note: “I don’t like this guy, I don’t like what he stands for, but I thought you might want this book. Merry Christmas.” There’s a story Di Domenico still tells from The Art of the Deal in which Trump, deep in a failing construction deal, holds a meeting with a potential investor in a room overlooking the project’s building site. Work had stopped because there was no more money, but Trump hired extra construction workers to drive the trucks around in order to give the illusion of progress. Di Domenico told me that story recently, at a coffee shop in Manhattan, freshly changed out of his costume and bald once more. He grinned and shook his head. “At first glance, I think you can admire him. And I think that’s something he really wants, is to be admired,” he said. “Once you go below the surface of him, it’s not things that are admirable.”
But what makes a Trump impersonation so fascinating is that Trump’s surface, carefully crafted, is all we have of the man. A superficial rendition of his gestures is as faithful a portrayal as any. Conversely, the challenge of playing Trump is that Trump has always been impersonating Trump. As Gabler observed in Life: The Movie, a history of the rise of entertainment culture in America, Trump’s ostentatious displays of wealth – his gold-plated apartment, his casinos, his yacht – “were all what Trump once called ‘props for the show’, which he admitted was ‘Trump’, and which he crowed had enjoyed ‘sold-out performances everywhere’, meaning, presumably, the media.”
The one fixed quality of Trump, Di Domenico believes, is his ability to manipulate the media. This relentless performance, this commitment to conjuring the image of success and power, confident in the knowledge that reality will follow the image – this is the “DNA”, as Di Domenico calls it, of the character.
Di Domenico originally dreamed of a traditional acting career, but he couldn’t quite get his break in film or theatre, and he worried about money. In 1997, the year Trump published The Art of the Comeback, about his recovery from bankruptcy, divorce and $3.4bn of debt, Di Domenico discovered that there was a good living to be made dressing up as Dr Phil or Ozzy Osbourne or Sean Connery and working corporate gigs. If he hesitated before quitting the off-Off-Broadway circuit, it wasn’t for long – he was married; they had a house to pay for. Now, when he chooses what roles he’ll play, he first considers the possible dividends: “How much can I sell this character for in a corporate environment, and how much do I want to invest?”
The presidential impression has had an uneasy role in American public life. No one even attempted it until 1928, when the famous comedian Will Rogers did a few lines as Calvin Coolidge at the end of a radio performance. Half the audience thought Coolidge had somehow materialised in the studio, and the other half, who caught the joke, found it shocking and disrespectful. Rogers immediately issued a public apology. Ten years later, Rogers tried again with Franklin D Roosevelt, who was so tickled by the impression that he encouraged it, inviting Rogers to appear alongside him and laughing uproariously at the sound of his own voice spoken back to him. The historian Peter Robinson suggests that Rogers and Roosevelt formed an alliance between humour and politics “as a way of nourishing democracy at a moment when worldwide cataclysms and the mounting complexity of modern life threatened to smother it”.
A century later, we still have the worldwide cataclysm and the mounting complexity, but we’ve passed through whatever veil was separating the spheres of celebrity and politics. The presidency itself has long had a theatrical element, but by the 1970s the New York Times journalist Russell Baker was arguing that the job of the president and the first family was to “provide a manageably small cast for a national sitcom, or soap opera, or docudrama, making it easy for media people to persuade themselves they are covering the news while mostly just entertaining us”. Reagan once told a journalist that he couldn’t imagine how anyone did the job without being a trained actor.
We no longer need impersonators to turn the president into good television. Presidents deliver comedy routines at the annual White House correspondents’ dinner (or they used to, before Trump decided to snub it) and make guest appearances on Saturday Night Live. Barack Obama “slow-jammed the news” on The Tonight Show, allowed Stephen Colbert to submit him to a mock job interview, and appeared on Zach Galifianakis’s internet comedy show to promote the new government healthcare plan. These days, presidential impersonators are a special class of critics – or, as Di Domenico pointed out to me, court jesters.
If you study successful presidential impressions, three broad categories emerge. The first aims to gently bring “the leader of the free world” back down to human size. This is Steve Bridges doing George W Bush at the White House correspondent’s dinner in 2006, desperately trying and failing to pronounce “nuclear proliferation”, or Chevy Chase as Gerald Ford affably falling over furniture. Second, there is the impression that’s sharper and more political – a lament, a critique – as when David Frye’s paranoid, aggressive Nixon growled: “I love America, and you always hurt the one you really love.” More rarely, you’ll see presidential impressions that enact a kind of wish fulfilment. The most popular one of Obama was done by Keegan-Michael Key and Jordan Peele, with Peele as Obama and Key as Obama’s “anger translator”, who exploded with all the righteous anti-Republican rage Democrats often speculated must seethe below Obama’s diplomatic public persona.
Di Domenico’s take on Trump follows the first model: gentle mockery with an occasional edge. His goal is to avoid both reverence and outright disrespect. Insisting during the act that his hands are actually huge? Fine. Jokes about Trump committing sexual assault? Not fine. This allows him to do the same material with Glenn Beck, Fox News, Conan O’Brien and Chelsea Handler, and leave everybody smiling. “If you know my politics, I’ve failed,” he likes to say. He feels no need for an overly negative portrayal of Trump because, in his opinion, Trump is doing that himself. “It’s too easy. It’s much harder to write comedy and keep it inclusive. If I can write for right-leaning people and left-leaning people, then I’m doing my job. Like an old-school entertainer.”
The decision is partly philosophical, partly practical. Other impressions, like Anthony Atamanuik’s aggro Id Trump, are deliciously satisfying in short bursts, but Di Domenico’s impression has to entertain (and not grate) sometimes for hours at a time. “That’s why it comes back to the middle road. The Buddhist Trump,” he joked. “The Zen Trump.”
This spring, Di Domenico travelled to New York, as he often does for work, to MC the 50th birthday party of an Orthodox Jewish hedge fund manager. The hedge fund manager’s wife had flown Di Domenico out from his home in Las Vegas, put him up in a hotel, and paid a generous fee (“I can’t remember exactly, but a minimum of $5,000”) for a 20-minute set, general introductions, and some glad-handing among the dinner tables.
He spent the day of the party in a gloomy hotel room scattered with granola bars, coffee cups and empty bottles of Diet Snapple. Di Domenico writes all his own material, and his performance has to evolve daily to keep up with Trump’s volatility and to meet the demands of the client. For this evening, he was going to have to write a bit about a piece of legislation called the Taylor Force Act, which would deny US federal funds to the Palestinian Authority, which “from my perspective is a total boner-killer”. He thought about it for a while, and then decided to just bring up the legislation without making it funny, and then slide sideways into a joke by making fun of a co-signer, the moderate Republican senator Lindsey Graham (“Lindsey: what is that, a girl’s name?”). He speculated that Trump would probably make this dig himself. He then spent some time figuring out how to poke fun at the birthday boy’s enthusiasm for sport. “Which word sounds funnier: slalom or dressage?”
After putting the finishing touches to the night’s routine and phoning in a quick voiceover, he began his hour-long hair-and-makeup process, which he sometimes has to undertake three or four times a day. To pass the time, he turned on one of the Trump YouTube compilations he mimics to warm up. While the screen played a Game of Thrones parody that spliced Trump’s head and voice into various scenes, in the mirror, Di Domenico’s face, now half his and half not, spoke along with the dubs taken from one of Trump’s rallies: “We Can’t! Be! The stupid country! Any more.” He looked at me in the mirror, and smirked.
The party occupied the thickly carpeted second-floor banquet room of what a waiter described to me as a “kosher Persian grill slash sushi restaurant” in midtown Manhattan. A hundred people sat in rented chairs eating platters of rice and kebabs, dressed in suits and yarmulkes, wigs and colourful dresses with high necklines. There were pink tea roses and blue mood lighting, and at the front of the room was a teetering screen with a picture of the honoree at age 12 superimposed with the words “HAPPY BIRHDAY” [sic]. Spirits were high: the children had been allowed as many Shirley Temples as they could manage, and Di Domenico made his way around the dining room, comparing hand sizes with the men and telling all the pretty women that he was going to make them “the fourth first lady … the fourth lady!”
Di Domenico’s Trump is genuinely softer than the president himself – his language is less brutal and his manner more genial. Fielding a question about how you show a woman you love her, he’ll suggest putting a hand on the woman’s shoulder, or eating a Tic Tac to freshen your breath. A fan handed him a phone and asked him to say hello to a co-worker who was, the man said, Lebanese. “I love that you’re Lebanese,” Di Domenico crooned into the phone. “I love Lebanese people and I’ve known them all my life. They’re great. And say hello to your girlfriend for me.”
The more I listened to Di Domenico-as-Trump, the more likely I was to laugh than to wince – a defanging effect that was unsettling. Laughing at the president’s expense also felt a lot like laughing with relief at the opportunity to not take him seriously – to find him, if only for a moment, funny rather than frightening. I asked Di Domenico if he ever worried about the ethical implications of this work – whether he might be seen as normalising Trump’s behaviour. He answered immediately: No. “I’m not going change anyone’s mind in a 10-second interaction.”
Later in the evening, as waiters cleared dirty plates, Di Domenico delivered the birthday speech, hitting the normal talking points (“Horrible people, the press, horrible”) and crowing that he was confident of re-election in 2020. The crowd cheered; the two bartenders in the corner booed quietly.
Part of Di Domenico’s talent is mimicking the circuitous way Trump speaks: he’ll begin a story (“I was visiting a coal mine in Tennessee … ”), and then digress once (“fantastic people, coal people”); go back to the beginning after a while (“Anyway, I was in Tennessee … ”); digress again (“No one loves the South more than me, by the way … ”); start over (“So, in Tennessee … ”) and so on. His strategy is to create this effect without digressing nearly as far or frequently as Trump himself – truly accurate mimicry would require a scale of incoherence that would lose the audience.
Di Domenico was well received, but the gig still didn’t feel great. A few of his jokes had fallen flat, and he was grouchy about the conditions: no podium (which helps him appear presidential) and no backstage, nowhere for him to fall out of character and rest. He had to smile through two hours and 45 minutes of speeches. By 11 o’clock, he was famished and tired, irritated that he hadn’t negotiated to leave immediately after his 20-minute set. Eventually, some time between the second and third rabbi, a member of the staff brought out a plate of leftover rice and meat and set it on a banquet table in the far back corner that some exhausted partygoers had abandoned. Still dressed as Trump, Di Domenico sank into the chair and began eating. He suddenly looked like no more than a tired performer, a man in a ridiculous costume. His wig drooped. But when it came time to cut the cake, he popped back up, jolly and irascible, Trump once more, and bounded to the front of the room to lead a round of Happy Birthday.
The next morning, Di Domenico would be up early to do a photoshoot with “one of my Melanias”, and then run to a meeting with an agent who might help him better capitalise on the wave of Trump attention. Then, he’d rush into costume and take a car to the Fox News studios in the evening to shoot two segments with their late-night talk show RedEye (which has since been cancelled), sleep for a few hours, and then get up at 4.30am to get into costume one more time for a segment with Fox & Friends and a quick Facebook Live Q&A at Huffington Post.
This is the pace Di Domenico has been working at since Trump got the nomination. Despite his success, he retains the anxiety of the performer who isn’t sure when the laughter will die or the calls will stop coming. In the time I spent with him, he was constantly on the phone or writing an email – angling for a new appearance, negotiating a new contract, pushing and pushing to establish himself as “The #1 Trump Impersonator” and to turn that distinction into bigger, better gigs. “I love what I do and I feel like this is my last shot,” he told me. “That’s why I want to leverage this right now and ride the Trump train as long as I can.”
Playing “Trump” has not been as rewarding for John Di Domenico as it has for Donald Trump, but it has given him a sliver of the recognition he always wanted as an actor. Di Domenico is in movies and on television all the time now – as Trump, but still. In May, he even received an Emmy nomination for acting in a commercial. He’s finally the real deal. Or, sort of real.
When the cab driver taking Di Domenico to the birthday party in Manhattan asked him if he’d met Alec Baldwin, Di Domenico, who was in full costume, replied as Trump rather than himself: “He’s terrible, terrible. He’s very mean to me. Very mean. I’m so nice to him! I’ve given him many compliments. His career was in the toilet until he started doing me.” But when the cabbie asked if he’d ever been on Saturday Night Live, he broke character and replied as himself. The switch was immediate, and Di Domenico’s voice, lighter and less nasal, sounded full of good humour and earnest longing. “Oh, I wish. I wish. We were very close there for a minute.”
While in character, Di Domenico is never asked if he has ever met the man he’s portraying; the very question would break the mood. But they have met, only once – while Di Domenico, suitably enough, was pretending to be someone else.
Trump’s birthday parties, particularly the ones held at his casinos in Atlantic City – say, Trump’s Castle or the Taj Mahal – are aggressively themed and involve elaborate entertainment, with cameos from the ultra-famous. The Beach Boys played his 50th birthday. At his 60th, guests were showered with $200,000 in cash and prizes for a “James Bond heist” theme, during which Bond girl lookalikes danced among the tables and then swooned at The Donald’s feet after he, dressed as 007, arrived just in time to save the day and give away a new BMW Z4.
At Trump’s 55th, Di Domenico was hired to impersonate Austin Powers – to pop out of the cake in the style of a 1950s stag party girl, and then banter with Trump before declaring an end to the multi-million dollar pageant with a hearty “Yeah, baby.” He burst out of the fake cake in a spray of cardboard icing (“Bet you weren’t expecting me, baby!”) and, flanked by a few dozen chorus girls, joined Trump on stage for a kick line and some light repartee. The two men stood together facing the cheering crowd: a man impersonating himself standing beside his future impersonator, in a casino masquerading as a castle.
This hall of mirrors is where Trump thrives. He may understand, better than anyone else, why an impersonator can acquire the power of the person he’s impersonating: if you have the aura of fame, it doesn’t matter any more if you’re “real”. Even his early publicity stunts were designed to convince the world he was a statesman. In 1988, when Mikhail Gorbachev visited the US on a trip to improve Soviet-American relations, Trump offered him an invite to Trump Tower, where he could “act as a representative of the American people”. When Gorbachev accepted this preposterous invitation, Trump was triumphant – only for the Soviet leader’s staff to cancel days later.
Hearing of Trump’s disappointment, a reporter for New York’s Channel 5 called up a Gorbachev lookalike named Ronald Knapp, hired a black stretch limousine and four Russian models, and headed to Fifth Avenue. Upon arrival, a crowd quickly gathered around the faux-Gorbachev, who was greeting onlookers outside Trump Tower. Trump, thinking that Gorbachev had changed his plans, ran down from his office to the street with his bodyguards to meet the statesman. He elbowed his way through the crowd and arrived flushed and beaming.
Later, Trump claimed that he was never fooled. But there is news footage from the afternoon, and on it you can see a young Trump’s eagerness as he moves through the crowd with an embarrassed, pleased smile on his face. “It is a great honour,” he says to the man pretending to be Gorbachev, and proudly shakes his hand. Gordon Elliott, the reporter who staged the whole thing, said later that Trump was starstruck. As he told the New York Times, “There was absolutely no question that he bought it.”
Main photograph by stephenedgar.ca
• Follow the Long Read on Twitter at @gdnlongread, or sign up to the long read weekly email here.
More proof that Richard Curtis’s style of comedy-drama is very difficult to imitate. This placid, silver-years heartwarmer, set in a picturesque and pricey part of the capital – in this case, Hampstead – is pretty obviously inspired by Curtis’s 1999 hit Notting Hill, though actually taken from the true-life case of Harry Hallowes, a reclusive man who in 2007 claimed squatter’s rights to a patch of ground in Hampstead Heath in London where he’d set up camp and legally saw off some property developers who’d tried to oust him.
This movie casts Brendan Gleeson as Harry – renamed Donald – and invents a quirky American widow called Emily, played by Diane Keaton, who falls in love with him. This movie has some decent moments, and its scepticism about property moguls is something that will chime with many right now. The cast all do an honest job: Phil Davis has a punchy cameo and Jason Watkins plays a creepy accountant with romantic designs on Emily. It is genuinely funny when he reveals his toe-curling hobby: he is the leader of a ukulele orchestra who perform at Emily’s birthday party. But there is something so treacly and fundamentally unconvincing about the relationship itself and the ending is weirdly fudged, quite divorced from the real-life case of Hallowes.
The early hours of 2 January 1906. A boat approaches Southampton docks. On board are 10 American sailors saved from drowning in the Atlantic three weeks earlier. The British authorities take one look and order them back to sea. Why? Because they have the misfortune of landing on British soil just one day after the first peacetime restrictions on immigration have been enacted. It no longer matters if they are asylum seekers, economic migrants, or 10 unlucky sailors. According to the law that will for ever change the way Britain views immigration, they are “destitute alien immigrants”. Britain’s open door has been closed to them.
So begins Who Should We Let In? Ian Hislop on the First Great Immigration Row (BBC2, 9pm). A timely and oddly jovial examination of how our views on immigration were shaped, or rather warped, around the turn of the last century, it airs as we teeter on the brink of Brexit. Although, let’s be honest: any week in the past 100 years would have been timely because, since the 1905 Aliens Act, Britain’s politicians, public and media have been embroiled in the Second Great Immigration Row.
Hislop (granted, another posh, white, Oxbridge-educated man here to teach us about foreigners) is on razor-sharp, twinkly-eyed form, reminding us that it was not ever thus. In the Victorian era, Britain’s open-door policy of welcoming anyone who wanted to come, for any reason, was a source of great pride … and, OK, imperial arrogance. Basically, the attitude was: “We are the leaders of the free world. Why wouldn’t anyone want to come here?” How things have changed. Just look at who the leaders of the free world are now.
At one point, Hislop asks random punters when a Times leader proudly referring to Britain as “the asylum of nations” might have been written. Er, before the age of Murdoch? (The answer is 1853.) Unfortunately, our compassion has been on a downward slide ever since. A turning point appears to have been the vicious election campaign of Conservative candidate Sir William Evans-Gordon in 1900, when, in white working-class Stepney, he railed against “foreign invaders”, whipped up hatred against the Jewish community, and, for the first time in history, made immigration a national issue. Sound familiar?
Or how about Mancherjee Bhownagree, an Indian immigrant who stood for parliament in 1895 on an anti-immigration ticket, blaming “foreign pauper aliens” for everything from increased rents to increased sweating? He won. (Not that it should be a surprise that immigrants, then and now, are capable of being ultra-conservative or anti-immigration.) Hislop also unearths an impassioned letter that ran in the Manchester Guardian in 1904, glorifying the benefits of asylum and condemning racism. Its author? A 29-year-old MP called Winston Churchill.
My one bugbear is with the irreverent tone: the Monty Pythonish, Spy magazine-esque graphics and Hislop japes, such as when he dresses up as a barrister in chancery wig and robes to tell the story of an astonishing Victorian trial at the Old Bailey in which a French revolutionary – and refugee – behind a terrorist attack in Paris walked free. It feels out of step with the gravity of the moment, living as we are in the blackened aftermath of the Grenfell Tower fire and terrorist attacks in London Bridge, Manchester and Finsbury Park, all of which are deeply connected to our attitudes to immigration. The news is moving so fast that TV scheduling – perhaps even history – is struggling to keep up. And why on earth is Hislop interviewing Katie Hopkins? When the national catchphrase is about knowing nothing about anything, there is at least one certainty: it’s time to cease giving this preacher of hate a mainstream platform.
Killer Women with Piers Morgan (ITV, 9pm), in its second series, is British TV at its most trashy and American – so Morgan is in his element. In the first episode he travels to a Florida prison to interview Rebecca Fenton, who in 2014 was found guilty of murdering her husband, Larry, at their home. It took six years to convict her using circumstantial evidence, and she maintains her innocence. In a skin-crawling moment, Morgan gets her to look into the camera and tell us why we should believe her. “I am not spiritually capable of hurting anybody, I am not a murderer, I did not do this,” she says, bursting into tears. None of it is particularly enlightening. Meanwhile, there is the question of why a programme like this should focus on “murderesses”, as Morgan in his oddly Victorian way calls them, when the overwhelming majority of murders are committed by men? The conclusion, in any case, is empty. Either Fenton is a victim of a gross miscarriage of justice, Morgan says, or “a cold, calculating murderess and the best liar I’ve ever met in my life”.
Born in Pakistan as the child of Muslim parents, Islam buzzed away quietly in the background of Sami Shah’s life until he succumbed to peer pressure. All the cool kids, he says, were praying.
Shah had a short stint as a teenage radical and upped the ante once again while living in the United States post-9/11, where he transformed into a “Frightening Muslim” – one of five types of Muslim that he classifies in his new book. He grew out his beard and began using Islam to soothe his seething rage over the invasion of Iraq.
But “violence just isn’t a consideration”, Shah says – and rather than becoming a “Downright Crazy Muslim”, he began channelling his anger into writing and standup. “Because comedy is inherently about ridiculing everything, my cynicism and atheism soon followed,” he writes. He contrasts his own journey with a friend of his who went the other way and joined the Taliban.
These days, Shah is a comedian, a writer and an atheist – but he still identifies as a cultural Muslim. “Muslim culture is part of my background,” he says. “I am fascinated by it; I do love aspects of it.”
His new book, The Islamic Republic of Australia, sprang from his frustration over the lack of nuance in the highly charged debates about the religion in Australia.
“It’s atrocious, on both sides. It’s simplistic and almost childlike,” he says.
More often than not, the debate flares up in the wake of a terrorist attack; recently, for instance, Pauline Hanson used terror attacks in London to call for a ban on Muslim migration to Australia. One opposing view is that Islam is a religion of peace. “Which is again not practical, because Islam isn’t a religion of peace: there is no such thing as a religion of peace,” Shah insists. “Both sides keep shouting the same one-liners at each other.”
Shah’s book seeks to provide “an unflinching understanding of Australia’s Muslim community”. It starts with the basics, asking the former secretary of the Islamic Council of Victoria, Kuranda Seyit, “What’s a Muslim?” The answer is that in Australia, Muslim communities are fragmented along their nationality of origin as well as the type of Islam they practice. But the most important thing to remember, he writes, is that there are many types of Muslims.
For a committed atheist, being able to talk openly about issues that need to be addressed in Islam is very empowering
“I can prove there’s no single monolithic ‘Muslim’ who needs to be feared and driven out. Rather, there are many types of Muslims with various beliefs – and while some of these may be problematic, most Muslims are just trying to lead peaceful lives.”
Shah’s research includes conversations with academics, Islamic leaders and well-known public figures. It aims to clear up old chestnuts about Muslims in Australia, such as whether Australia is “swamped” by them. According to the 2011 census, just 2.2 % of Australia’s population is Muslim.
He writes: “If Australia is indeed at risk of being ‘swamped by Muslims’, as One Nation senator Pauline Hanson claimed in September 2016, it’s a really slow-moving swamp that’s mostly confined to a swimming pool somewhere in Sydney, with a few other puddles in other cities.”
Shah has previously published two books: a fantasy novel called Fire Boy (“that’s the thing I’m inordinately proud of”); and a memoir, I, Migrant, about leaving the explosion-prone megacity of Karachi for the Western Australian country town of Northam, where he was forced to live for almost four years “because the immigration department has a sense of humour all its own”.
He describes himself as a “serial blasphemer”. One chapter in his book is titled “How to blaspheme”, and another is “Apostates are people too”. While performing as a comedian in Pakistan, the government’s strict blasphemy laws, which carry the death penalty, had been an occupational hazard; he was accused of blasphemy by an audience member after his first standup gig there, and never again touched on religion while performing in the country.
In March, the government of Pakistan asked Facebook and Twitter to help identify blasphemers in Pakistan and abroad, with the aim to extradite and prosecute them (Shah says that vigilante groups usually murder the accused before they even set foot in court). And in mid-June a court in Lahore sentenced a 30-year-old man to death for posting “blasphemous content” on his Facebook page.
Shah found refuge in Australia for his material and became a citizen in January.
“Now I have the protection of Australian citizenship to at least fall back on,” he says. “[In Pakistan] you can’t talk about religion at all unless it’s in glowing, worshipping terms. For someone who is a committed atheist, being able to talk openly about the major issues that need to be addressed in Islam is very empowering.”
• The Islamic Republic of Australia is out now through ABC Books
When Hana Koch died in 2006, she left her family a modern German treasure hidden in an old altarpiece in her Bavaria home. Koch had survived the extremes and the violence of Germany in the previous century and through it all kept with her an extraordinary artistic document of innocence and love. For Koch was the stepdaughter of the great artist Otto Dix and, in 1925, when she was five years old, he made her a beautiful, handpainted picture book full of his joyously original visions of German folktales, biblical stories and comical monsters.
The Bremen Town Musicians – from the Brothers Grimm – and Saint Christopher carrying Christ are among the traditional German childhood images Dix reinvents in his Bilderbuch für Hana (Picture Book for Hana). It went on public view in Germany for the first time last year and is now at Tate Liverpool.
This is an exhibition about the doomed Weimar republic, the attempt at German democracy born out of defeat in the first world war and effectively ended, in the voting booth, when the Nazis were elected in 1933. The Weimar years were socially and politically chaotic – and artistically brilliant.
No artist embodies Weimar more pungently than Dix. If you think this era’s reputation for “decadence” is a stereotype created by the musical Cabaret, think again. Liza Minnelli had nothing on the original Weimar characters portrayed by Dix, from his chubby, flamboyant art dealer Johanna Ey to a rich gallery of sexual experimenters and prostitutes. One 1922 watercolour, in which a woman poses in a corset and stockings flourishing a whip in front of a bloodstained cross, is called Dedicated to Sadists. In a small, intense oil painting that pays homage to the kinky German Renaissance master Lucas Cranach, the goddess Venus is naked except for long, black leather gloves.
What kind of society is Dix painting? How are we meant to respond? One answer lies in his terrifying series of prints, Der Krieg, exhibited here in its chilling entirety. Dix had been in the first world war as a machine gunner and his memories flash back as nightmare glimpses of rotting bodies and worm-eaten skulls in this masterpiece of anti-war art, first published in 1924. Yet even his friends on the left advised him to leave out one shocking scene. It shows a German soldier assaulting a nun.
Dix came back from the hell of the trenches and plunged into a vision of the Weimar years that is totally cynical and deliberately obscene. Yet is it pessimistic? Is he prophesying disaster or celebrating freedom? For me, this art is not at all depressing. As the wonderful picture book he made for his stepdaughter shows – and there’s other touching evidence of his tender family life here, too – Dix is a happy artist. He has a huge, Hogarthian appetite for humanity. His art asks us to question what decadence means, for the outrageous erotic mayhem he depicts expresses a belief in social progress and liberation. The woman gazing at us as she rests amid furs and silks in his 1927 painting Reclining Woman on a Leopard Skin is bold, intellectual and challenging, like his characterful art dealer Ey.
The world of Weimar nightlife that explodes in Dix’s frenzied dada paintings is apocalyptic yet subversive, and looks forward in its freedoms to our own age. It is not a bleak catalogue of the damned. He probably thought Germany was headed for a communist revolution, not nazism.
This is two exhibitions in one. Parallel with Dix, in a separate gallery, the photographs of August Sander take a cooler, more distanced, and perhaps, tragically, more accurate view of Germany society in the 1920s.
The glamorously fierce Dix appears in one of Sander’s monochrome portraits. He is just one face among many, no more or less important than the pastry chef, children, blind people, industrialists, communists and students who are also in this apparently endless array of Weimar Germans. Sander’s sharp focus on faces and clothes, against evocatively blurred landscapes or rooms, makes us see people who lived almost a century ago with undimmed immediacy. Yet their formal, unsmiling poses and inclusion in a vast series – there are 146 photographs from the immense unfinished project People of the Twentieth Century – make it clear that, far from romantic celebrations of the individual, these portraits aspire to a scientific analysis of the whole of German society.
In a 1929 essay introducing the first book of Sander’s photographs, the novelist Alfred Döblin claimed they “provide superb material for the cultural, economic history of the last 30 years”. And so they do. If Dix takes us inside his own psyche, Sander is a Marxist historian of the social world. Everyone is seen as representative of a group, classor gender. It is like looking at a collection of pickled specimens, wondrous, strange and full of scientific information.
The most telling difference with Dix is that, while the painter sees sex and rebellion everywhere, Sander sees a profoundly conservative society. His photographs take in urban creative types – as he classes them – such as Dix or the composer Paul Hindemith. But he also dwells on rural Germans who look stiff and archaic in their formal habit. Farmers and their children, a rural teacher posing in hunting gear – we look into their eyes and wonder what they were doing a few years later when the Nazis came to power.
Sander reveals a Germany in which Weimar sophisticates like Dix were very much in a minority. The formal tone of his pictures is not a mere style. It suggests that far from debauching at Berlin clubs, most Germans were still stuck in formal and hierarchical social customs.
In other words, this is the rigid, regimented society Dix and other dadaists rebelled against. Which vision is true? We know, of course. The social and sexual experiments of Weimar would be swept away by the Nazis. The obsession with order that underlies Sander’s Germany would make the people in his pictures follow orders to the end. Dix and Sander survived to bear witness – there are pictures here in which Sander records victims of the Holocaust – and many years later, Hana Koch’s album would come to light, with its vibrant vision of a better Germany, in a land that had finally fulfilled its promise.
Drama invites judgment. One of the oldest plays in the western canon, The Oresteia, ends with Athenian jurors deciding whether Orestes should be condemned for matricide. Ferdinand von Schirach’s Terror, a courtroom drama getting its British premiere at the Lyric Hammersmith, ends with a decision as to whether a German airforce major is guilty of murder in shooting down a hijacked plane targeting a packed football stadium. The difference is this: in The Oresteia we are simply observers but in Terror we become the jurors pressing a button to record our verdict.
This opens up a big question: whether we go to the theatre to be passive spectators or part of an interactive experience. A friend reacted with dismay when I told her the premise of Terror. Her point was that she goes to the theatre seeking emotional and intellectual engagement rather than active participation; and I have some sympathy with her point of view. I’ve no wish to see the Terror principle widely applied, so that we have to decide whether or not Falstaff should be rejected at the end of Henry IV Part Two, whether Nora is right to walk out on her husband at the climax of Ibsen’s A Doll’s House or whether Salieri really was guilty of Mozart’s death in Amadeus. Some issues are best left unresolved.
Yet there is no doubt there is a growing hunger for some kind of active involvement. It can take many forms. Thomas Ostermeier’s astonishing production of Ibsen’s An Enemy of the People, which came to the Barbican in 2014, gave audiences the freedom to debate the contest between private profit and communal safety: it unleashed a torrent of anger the night I was there that would be multiplied tenfold if the production were seen today.
James Graham’s Privacy at the Donmar Warehouse invited audiences to keep their smartphones on to illustrate the way our personal data is open to commercial abuse. You can even get audiences to determine the action. Alan Ayckbourn’s Mr A’s Amazing Maze Plays, first seen in 1988, intriguingly asked us to vote on which rooms the child-heroine and her dog should explore when they entered the villain’s house.
As with so many things in theatre, active participation is neither good or bad in itself. It all depends on the context. It would be crazy to go to a pantomime and expect to sit like a Trappist monk. Yet when I go to a Chekhov play I seek total, and silent, immersion.
Even plays on public issues have different rules. When London’s Tricycle theatre in 2007 staged a play about Tony Blair’s possible indictment as a war criminal, Called to Account, they rightly rejected the idea of putting the issue to an audience vote. Yet, in the case of Terror, the vote is entirely legitimate, since it asks us to come to a decision about a highly topical issue.
“I like a moral problem so much better than a real problem,” the US satirist Elaine May once jokingly observed. But, in the case of Terror, the moral question has a practical application. The court has to decide whether the fictive defendant, Lars Koch, is guilty of murder. He has used an air-to-air guided missile to shoot down a plane containing 164 passengers. His defence is that he chose the lesser evil in that the hijacked plane was heading towards a football stadium containing 70,000 people. The catch is that he defied orders from the German minister of defence. The federal constitutional court at that time – and this is 2013– also decreed that it was wrong to kill innocent people in order to save lives. Technically, Koch may be guilty. But was he morally right?
It’s fair to say that the play gets the audience talking: I heard, and even took part in, heated interval discussions before the actual vote. Sean Holmes’s production also has the right forensic rigour and is acted with great precision by Emma Fielding (prosecuting counsel), Forbes Masson (defence counsel), Tanya Moodie (presiding judge), Ashley Zhangazha (Koch) and Shanaya Rafaat and John Lightbody (witnesses). My only doubt concerns Schirach’s premise: he never explains how the plane could devastate an entire stadium or explores the possibility of the pilot staging a crash-landing.
But the play restores drama to its classical function by asking the audience to make a moral decision. I would only argue that, in getting the audience to vote, it doesn’t go nearly far enough. The real issue is not how people vote but why they vote as they do.
I’d like a post-play coda, on Ostermeier lines, in which audience members are encouraged to stand up and explain why they thought Koch innocent or guilty and discuss how we respond to terrorism. Democracy doesn’t end with the ballot box and what would really enfranchise the audience at Terror would be giving them the chance to engage in vigorous public debate.
Las Vegas’s Imagine Dragons are known for making stadium pop-rock that’s part-Foo Fighters tribute, part-Foster the People, occasionally embracing a Mumfords-style twang, a nu-metal riff or some hip-hop bounce. Despite singles such as Radioactive (695m YouTube views and counting) and a No 1 album in the UK with 2015’s Smoke + Mirrors, they remain faceless – something which is only likely to continue as they channel an on-trend, electronic sound for this third outing. Opener I Don’t Know Why is all stripped-back synths and awkward mid-tempo beats, while Whatever It Takes was written with a sports highlights package in mind (“I love the adrenaline in my veins”, wails frontman Dan Reynolds, before chart pop’s current obligatory chorus of “woah-ohs” enters). Elsewhere, there are occasional hallmarks of old: Walking the Wire ventures into stadium lighter-swaying territory, while Start Over is essentially a club remix of Africa by Toto. Evolve sounds, almost impressively so, as though it’s been created with telly music coordinators in mind – and few others besides.
Jeff Tweedy’s band Wilco have become synonymous with experimentalism and sonic adventures. However, this first instalment in a planned series of acoustic sessions continues the more stripped-down trajectory which began with 2014 solo debut, Sukierae. This time, Tweedy revisits his own labyrinthine back catalogue for 11 songs spanning occasional projects Loose Fur and Golden Smog as well as Wilco. Delivering them with just guitar and harmonica, Neil Young style, really exposes their vivid imagery and inner beauty. Laminated Cat is completely transformed from a bluesy jam into a wistful gem in which Tweedy sings of “love left over from lovers leaving” and books that are “not worth reading”. Tweedy also finds more intimate delights in Muzzle of Bees and In a Future Age. The unplugged format can get samey, but his delicate guitar playing is a joy and Via Chicago’s presumably metaphorical opening line, “I dreamed about killing you again last night”, never sounded more lovely.

Michigan-born producer Laurel Halo started out with stargazing synthpop songs, before abstracting and then bleeding out her vocals altogether, culminating in a gloriously offbeat take on dub techno. She now brings voices back into the fold, including guests such as Julia Holter and Lafawndah, on an album that brilliantly reimagines jazz song-craft for the 21st century. The drum programming shuffles, rustles and clangs like a broadsheet being folded on the tube, rarely settling into a steady pulse. But the centre holds, thanks to perfect snatches of melody. Jelly is as slippery as the title suggests, a dance-pop song whose ingredients have been spilled across the floor. Sun to Solar, meanwhile, is like UK garage done by Arthur Russell, Moontalk showcases dinky J-pop, and you can imagine Erykah Badu and Flying Lotus cooking up bleary ballad Like an L just as their shrooms are wearing off. This is a triumph of impressionism, where the digital and organic coexist in a radically beautiful whole.

The Guardian had a meeting to discuss important things in the world (I imagine). The powers-that-be wanted a man to walk around for the day in a RompHim – a one-piece shorts and T-shirt ensemble for men – and write about it. They found themselves hitting a brick wall. “No one in their right mind would do that,” remarked a male journo in their right mind. Step forward my sister, Bridie Jabour: “I’ve got just the guy.” And that is why I’m writing this. I’m Séamus Jabour and I wore a RompHim for a day.
The RompHim was an idea conceived by some business students in the United States. As the legend goes, the boyz were sitting around blowin’ the froth off a couple when the conversation turned to men’s fashion.
“Everything was either too corporate, too fratty, too ‘runway’, or too basic,” as stated by the Kickstarter website. So they set out to correct this minor glitch in men’s fashion and came up with something that is all too much.
The idea travelled around the world and materialised one Friday evening in Sydney with me preparing for a birthday party of about 15 guests. To set the scene: a burgundy onesie, sorry, RompHim, that was kinda furry, sleeveless and with a hoodie option. “Turn heads and break hearts when you take your RompHim for a spin,” Kickstarter tells you in the “What is a RompHim?” section of the website. Turning heads did occur but I was nearly breaking necks instead of hearts as the eyes would dart back for a second glance.
Dude, you remind me of that shit Flinstones movie with John Goodman
The first reaction was from my father: “What the [expletive deleted] is that?” he asked as I left the bathroom to find my shoes. “It’s a RompHim, Dad.” He persisted: “A what?” “A RompHim, all the cool kids are wearing them, apparently.” I am pretty sure by the end of the night he wanted one for himself. Strange old man.
I didn’t have long to settle in before the guests started to arrive for the dinner party. “OMG YOU LOOK LIKE A TROLL!” one exclaimed, reffering to the 1960s toy craze in the US.
“Dude, you remind me of that shit Flinstones movie with John Goodman,” I was told multiple times. “Like Bamm-Bamm or something”.
“Hey man – go the Maroons,” another mate said, referring to the Queensland rugby league team and not acknowledging at all that I was wearing a onesie.
Several people implored me to never wear it again and pleaded with me to take it off immediately. A guest who also happened to be a psychologist was psychoanalysing me and my reasons for wearing it (I couldn’t say it was for an article for the Guardian) so I was bombarded with Freudian insights as to why I would do such a thing.
It was good craic copping heat from a pretty diverse bunch of people. The RompHim, to its credit, was super comfortable with the zips at both ends making for easy access when it came time to go to the bathroom.
Throughout the night, I never felt uncomfortable in the company although I copped a barrage of questions from just about everyone such as “So, what’s this about?” and “Please explain” and “JUST WHAT THE FUCK DO YOU THINK YOU’RE DOIN’?”
I could comfortably fall into a conversation about the Guided by Voices tribute band, Guided by Guided by Voices, give myself to the chat and forget that I was wearing the onesie. This, I feel, would probably not have been been achieved if I had tackled the task in my regional hometown of Grafton (northern New South Wales just above the Big Banana and just below the Big Prawn and home to the South Grafton Rebels).
I love Grafton – the people, the area, the Rebels. But introduce something new, or try to, and it takes a while to process. In the meantime, questions will be blatantly asked. When I was 17 I must have been one of the first guys to wear skinny jeans around the place. I only had sisters to trade clothes with so I was at a loss. I started wearing their jeans whenever mine were misplaced.
That was not very well received.
To send in a RompHim to the Clocky on Friday night would send the city into meltdown. So would I wear it again or even encourage others to? No.
‘All music is difficult, all music is easy. What defines a successful performance?” Pianist Mark Knoop points out a paradox that applies to most of Morton Feldman’s works, with their endless expanses of calm, tormented beauty. How to clinch the lack of obvious direction without grinding to a halt? How to find the right space and zen in music that requires intense concentration? In the case of Feldman’s last work, this quartet from 1987, how to make 75 minutes of sun-bleached dissonance unfold in one long breath without aurally asphyxiating your listeners?
What is needed is virtuosic simplicity, the toughest trick in the book, and Knoop gets it with violinist Aisha Orazbayeva, violist Bridget Carey and cellist Anton Lukoszevieze. Their sound is wan and focused; their pacing tiptoes the line between tense and breezy. The music keeps moving like a little boat on a dead-flat lake: the ripples are minute, but they are still there.
Glastonbury is a lot of things: Britain’s biggest music festival, a hedonistic wonderland, a rally stop for Jeremy Corbyn. However, it’s unlikely anyone would think of it as a cineaste’s paradise.
Ok, perhaps that’s a little unfair. The festival’s resident cinema, the Pilton Palais, celebrates its 35th anniversary this year, and has seen some notable premieres, most recently of Asif Kapadia’s Amy Winehouse doc. Film, however, has generally been relegated to a supporting role.
Not any more. This year Julien Temple documenter of all things debauched, has created a new Glastonbury area, Cineramageddon, a “post-apocalyptic drive-in” that aims to drag film from the festival’s margins into the spotlight. Fittingly for the man who burned through a prodigious amount of cash while making Absolute Beginners, Temple’s latest project is nothing if not grand. A fleet of vintage cars has been handed over to Joe Rush, founder of the Mutoid Waste Company and probably the closest thing Glastonbury has to an artist-in-residence, who has added all manner of warped modifications: one car has had its bonnet ripped open and a row of teeth added, another has been part-submerged in the Glasto soil.
Towering above this strange assortment of vehicles is the biggest cinema screen in the country, which will be playing everything from Withnail and I to Alejandro Jodorowsky’s hallucinogenic fantasy film Holy Mountain and, screening just as festival-goers stagger back to their tents on the final night, Apocalypse Now. Temple got the idea during a trip to Cuba, where he encountered a drive-in filled with antique American cars. “Glastonbury is probably the only place where a drive-in like this could work in Britain,” he says. “Everywhere else, people wouldn’t go because of the rain”
Temple, who first attended the festival as a student in 1971, knows a fair bit about Glasto. Between 2002 and 2005 he took on the daunting task of knitting together three decades-worth of footage for Glastonbury the Movie, his mammoth documentary. “I always had the feeling that film at Glastonbury has not been presented in the ‘taking it to the edge of the envelope’ spirit of the festival,” he says. “It’s a very different experience that we are going for – nocturnal, wilder.”
He began by “trying to think of someone who embodied this rock’n’ roll attitude within a cinematic experience,” Temple says. “People like Jack Nicholson and Marlon Brando had it – Robert Mitchum was the originator of it. In our time Depp has inherited that role.”
Of course, not everyone sees Depp in such a positive light. Some have suggested that the actor’s booking, to curate an evening of films, is out of keeping with the spirit of the festival, given the allegations of domestic abuse against him, but Temple seems unconcerned. Temple has also programmed a smaller indoor venue called the Black Lamp, which will show arthouse films, beginning each day with a film by French new waver Robert Bresson. Does he really think there’s an audience for such select fare? “Black coffee and a croissant with Bresson: I think it’s a gentle way to wake up and celebrate being human. As long as a few people enjoy it, I’m going to be happy.”
For Temple, Cineramageddon is the way forward. “The old pattern of releasing a film, particularly an independent, in an Odeon is a thing of the past,” he argues. “If you believe in cinema, and want it to be something more than just Netflix or Amazon, you have to think of dynamic new ways of showing it.” He has ambitious plans: he hopes eventually to add a workshop for young filmmakers, “ a viewing chamber for underground New York films of the 40s and 50s”, and virtual reality booths in Rush’s mutated cars, so “you can be in the Amazon in one and the Arctic in another”. Most ambitiously of all, he hopes to buy a projector so powerful it can screen films on the clouds. “Imagine: the whole site will be able to see things happening. Bowie could be up on the clouds, or Elvis. Or Jeremy Corbyn!”
Cineramaggedon is at Glastonbury festival, from Wednesday to Monday.
Fast cars, faster bars, home-baked pastries: an afternoon with Boy Better Know zigzags between locker-room hangout and transformational workshop. One minute, boxfresh streetwear is being passed around, logos are burned off with lighters, music is blared at dangerously loud decibels and spliffs are rolled as they prep for their photoshoot. The next, there is so much talk about being true to yourself that it can be more like listening to a motivational podcast than a rap crew. Band member JME then turns up and immediately unzips a freezer bag of fresh vegan croissants, straight from his own oven.
Boy Better Know are the most prominent collective to leap out of grime mythology’s tangled chapters, and the one that has taken the genre global. They are better known as individual MCs, DJs and producers, as Skepta, JME, Jammer, Frisco, Shorty and Maximum (affiliates who aren’t present today include grime godfather Wiley). Combined, though, they are grime’s A-Team. When Kanye West wanted 30 UK rappers to join his performance at the Brits, he called on Boy Better Know to assemble the troops. Drake swore his allegiance by tattooing “BBK” on his shoulder and signing to their label. Their best-known tracks – Solo 45’s Feed ’Em to the Lions and Skepta’s Too Many Man and Shutdown – are now festival chants. Their live shows can turn swampy fields into heaving moshpits, as they will when they close Glastonbury’s Other Stage on Sunday night.
Ask them how they got here though and the answer is as hazy as a puff of marijuana smoke. “Everyone was just on a musical journey. We just met on that journey and stayed together,” says Jammer.
It started at some point in 2005. Grime was by then a flourishing sound nudging over-from-underground; a murkier, shadowier offshoot of UK garage that reflected life between London’s tower blocks. Boy Better Know’s central siblings, Skepta (Joseph Adenuga) and JME (Jamie Adenuga) – their sister Julie is also a DJ on Apple’s Beats 1 – had been knocking around first-wave grime groups Meridian Crew and Roll Deep but their present-day incarnation was cemented on the capital’s illegal radio stations.
“Pirate radio helped bring us together, we were all on the same station,” says Maximum, their DJ, of the early days on broadcasters such as Heat and Deja Vu FM. The competition with rival MCs helped foster their determination to thrive. “You had to have heart and a serious backbone to make it on pirate radio,” says Jammer. “It was about making the best tunes to take in, and showing what you got.”
What was distinctive about BBK’s approach to music-making back then? Skepta – stern, poised, dressed in round sunglasses and waterproof dungarees – gives a typically sideways answer. “We don’t nod our head, we shake it,” he says, waggling his cranium. “We all want to say something or produce something that makes someone say: ‘Fucking hell, how did they do that?’ That mindset is how you come up with things first, and you lead.”
It’s a family. We don’t just do music together, we live every day together
Skepta and JME’s fierce entrepreneurship and DIY ethic has allowed them to succeed on their own terms. The crew release all their music on the BBK imprint – which has also, at various times, become a mobile phone network and a T-shirt line. The latter provided visibility at a time when commercial radio stations refused to play their music. Pre-social media, says JME, the clothing was “just as powerful as radio” and that business savvy kept them self-sufficient.
“It was definitely good funding. JME was getting racks,” says Skepta of the money they were raking in. “When you get yourself racked up, you don’t have to [compromise]: you can say exactly what you want to say, make exactly what videos you want to make.”
It wasn’t always that way: at one point in 2008, when grime was having its pop moment, Skepta garnered minor interest from America and guested on a track with Puff Daddy, but it never went anywhere. As  Dizzee Rascal began collaborating with Calvin Harris, the rest of the scene seemed to retreat underground. JME, however, remained staunchly below radar. “I didn’t want to be part of the wave that ‘failed’,” he says, as Skepta sits next to him silently. “I didn’t understand how to make it in the music industry, I just wanted to make music.”
Eventually, in 2014, Skepta made his checkmate move and became Boy Better Know’s first proper breakthrough artist. He ditched the designer clothing and reasserted an uncompromisingly gritty grime style with That’s Not Me, coupled with a video that cost just £80. Grime had always been bubbling away – BBK have released one or two albums a year since 2006 – but its renewed punk spirit captured the nation’s youth. Skepta entered the charts at No 2 with his 2015 album Konnichiwa, released on BBK and winning the Mercury prize and an Ivor Novellos award, showing that you could both maintain creative control and be successful.
They could easily have separate careers and play solo; why do Boy Better Know still roll together? “Because it’s a family,” says Maximum. “We don’t just do music together, we live every day together.” The idea that Boy Better Know is something they work at is an alien concept.
“At the beginning, it was more of a conscious decision in making music,” says JME of their various collaborations and how they would ensure that they featured on each other’s releases.
“If you don’t put your crew on your album, you’re a snake,” hisses Skepta.
For a group of musicians who are about to headline Glastonbury – and will be hosting a six-stage all-day takeover of the O2 in August – you’d think they’d be fizzing with anticipation. But BBK won’t let themselves be too enthusiastic. They’re not about to let anyone treat them like a faddish band just because grime is the sound of now; this, says Skepta, is about “forever”, a word he has tattooed across his neck, in case anyone forgets. “It does feel good,” he says, “but as happy as we are, we might come across nonchalant because we see it for what it is: us being allowed to do the O2, people trying to speak to us that never tried to speak to us before. People that I know in other genres that do music like us … we’ve worked just as hard as big bands that get put on pedestals.”
“We’re playing at big festivals now but we should have been playing at big festivals six years ago,” continues JME. “We’re charting now, we should have been charting six years ago. Anything you see us doing now, it’s not as great to us as it is to everyone else.”
This comes out more level-headed than negative. “We do understand that [what we do is] inspiring to other people,” Skepta continues, “but at the same time, we can’t get lost. We have to stay in the middle at all times.”
If you really feel at the mercy of the system, vote. But your main focus should be to live with that not in your life
Notably, grime was co-opted in the run-up to the general election. The Boy Better Know logo was turned into “Boy Better Vote” and “Girl Better Vote” memes and hashtags. A number of grime acts and hip-hop British artists who were vocal about voting and about the Labour party got swept up in a social media campaign called #Grime4Corbyn, which collated support from all corners. JME himself, keen to help get people out to vote, interviewed Jeremy Corbyn ahead of the general election. Regardless, his brother Skepta is more sceptical about grime’s flirtation with Westminster.
“You know why grime exists? Because of the pain that they’ve put us through,” he says of politicians in general. “That makes me sick. Everyone was tellin’ everyone, all the youth to ‘vote for my man’. I’m not watchin’ them, I’m laughin’ at them, bruv.”
It turns out that JME and Skepta have not discussed the former’s meet-cute with Corbyn, or what Corbyn stands for at all. It quickly becomes a heated discussion, much to the eye-rolls of everyone else. It’s unexpected, all right. Eventually, JME mockingly hollers “Order! Order!”, keen to explain his motivations. He says he did not tell people who to vote for – he will barely mention Corbyn by name today – and merely wanted to empower his young followers to make their own decisions.
“The system is messed up but I can’t keep saying: ‘Just forget it, then’,” he says. “I’m all right if the NHS gets privatised. I’ll just spit two bars, get a bit of money and go fix my ribs. But people that grow up with nothing – like I did – I’m doing it for them. I thought: ‘You know what? I’m gonna make them have a voice.’”
Skepta, however, takes a more nihilistic – or, depending on how you look at it, utopian – view. “I didn’t speak about it on my Twitter, cos I wish that everybody never spoke about it so it didn’t exist,” he says. “The more that we always keep doing these hashtags, every time we talk about them, we give them power. If they’re [young people] in a place where they really feel like at the mercy of the system and the government, then they should vote. But your main focus is to live with that not existing in your life. I don’t want to have a say in the country.”
“Stop, one sec – that’s rubbish! That’s crap,” says JME. “You don’t want to run the country, but you definitely have an idea about one thing, whether it’s parking, whether it’s whether weed shouldn’t be classed as whatever; you must have an idea of something that you think is bullshit in the country you live in today and that could change and that could be better. It’s not running the country, it’s just for anything.”
“I think some things that are better for me are not good for other people, innit,” says Skepta. “They need to run theirself. Everybody should run theirself.”
If Skepta wants to live as a free agent, perhaps Glastonbury would be just the place for his utopian ideals. Will we find him in the healing fields, taking a gong bath?
“That’s Skepta! He’s out there healing,” chirps JME.
He does, at least, appear to have arrived at a higher state of consciousness about Boy Better Know’s future. As the rest of the group start to pack away, heading out for more vegan food, he considers where’s next for them. “Bob Marley. David Bowie. All the greats. Even the ones that are alive. Liam [Gallagher] is talking about us now … We look at them and understand that we can do exactly the same.”
Boy Better Know headline Glastonbury’s Other Stage, 9.45pm, Sun
In his short life, Jaco Pastorius revolutionised the bass guitar, and lifted the music of key jazz-fusioneers Pat Metheny and Weather Report in the 1970s – but his ambition was to form a big band. This previously unreleased live set captures a blistering two-hour gig from Pastorius’s soulful, swinging and very full-on Word of Mouth orchestra in 1982, with saxophonist Bob Mintzer, trumpeter Randy Brecker and harmonica maestro Toots Thielemans in the ranks. The riff-shouting, soul-jazzy Pastorius standby The Chicken is constantly stung by the leader’s springy, ever-changing basslines, the fast Charlie Parker bebop classic Donna Lee is implausibly and audaciously unfolded as a unison bass and tuba theme, Three Views of a Secret sets a lyrical Thielemans free over floating Gil Evans-like harmonies, the world-music of the slithery, simmering Reza turns into Coltrane’s Giant Steps, and three drummers including Peter Erskine and Don Alias are explosive and remarkably melodic by turns. This exhilarating set is a real find, for Jaco fans and left-field big-band followers alike.
These quartets don’t do what they should. Haydn mucks about with phrase lengths, harmonies and hierarchies – or rather he sets a new standard for the kind of daring and rogue vision with which every subsequent composer of string quartets has had to reckon. A potential danger for performers is overegging all that boldness, to signpost the surprises, to make the shock factor sound gaudy. Although big contrast is written into the Chiaroscuro name – and with period instruments that show up every gradation, they deliver on that promise – it is always done with exquisite taste. The playing is intense and refined, exploratory and poised. The sound is featherweight, but there is grit and substance when needed. Alina Ibragimova leads with typical grace and ferocity, but this is real chamber music: the attack is immaculate and spirited from all four musicians.
Antony Gormley has asked for paint to be removed from his iron men sculptures on Crosby beach after they were embellished with colourful outfits by an unknown artist.
At least nine of the famous group of statues, which face out to sea and have been standing naked on the Merseyside beach for a decade, have been brightly decorated in the past week.
One statue now has a pink polka-dot bikini and another has bright orange shorts. Some are marked with the name Mokie and one has “I am art” written on the back of a newly painted blue shirt.
Gormley, best known for his Angel of the North sculpture that stands outside Gateshead, has complained to the council and many locals and visitors have condemned the act as vandalism.
A spokesman for Sefton council said: “We want everyone to enjoy and interact with the impressive Antony Gormley statues on Crosby beach, which are synonymous with Sefton.
“However, following this incident, we have been contacted directly by Mr Gormley with a view of removing these permanent decorations which we will now look into.”
Art or vandalism? @peterjharvey gives his verdict to @bbcmerseyside @snellyradio at 01:24:30 📻 https://t.co/nYmdxmyliQ Pic: @PrawnCufflinks pic.twitter.com/KevWGvke5c
Vandalism. Street art has it's place, but not over the top of another bigger, better piece of art. If this was by an artist it's a lazy one
Interaction with @IronMenCrosby should be encouraged. Gormley welcomes it. Aerosol attacks are selfish, mindless and arguably criminal. https://t.co/JOx75gwwta
The spokesman said he knew of nine of the 100 statues that had been “decorated”.
The life-sized figures, part of an artwork titled Another Place, were installed in 2005 and were all modelled on Gormley himself. They were meant to be moved to New York the following year but became a permanent fixture on the beach front after drawing admirers.
The writer Jeanette Winterson recently wrote of Gormley’s Iron Men: “Standing modestly at their posts, the Gormley bodies are guides. They have something of ancient Earth about them – these metal men, as though they have erupted out of the iron core of the world, uncertain of human form, not smoothed by millennia of natural selection, but only now cooled from molten.
“They could be an older life-form pushed up, tectonically, by a shift in the Earth’s plates, or returned from a past too old to imagine, through some yawn in time.”
While the figures are often adorned with items of clothing by visitors, this is the first longer-lasting addition.
In September Gormley opened his first White Cube exhibition in four years, in which he transformed the gallery in London into a labyrinth of 15 chambers containing a series of human figures, all of different materials, sizes and postures.
“We are living in a really strange time,” the artist said at the time. “Yet we are all sleepwalking through it. And it is urgent we wake up. We are sort of aware the centre cannot hold, that 250 years of industrial activity has undermined and fundamentally disturbed our world – yet we feel somehow not responsible.”
After bravely but cheerfully examining the problems of contemporary Mexico on Balas y Chocolate, two years ago, and then attacking Trump with her English-language song The Demagogue, the Mexican-American diva has switched direction, with an album dominated by songs of female power and survival. Trained as an opera singer, and a specialist in Mexican folk, Lila Downs is remarkable for her vocal and emotional range. Both are on display here. She matches lyrics about suffering and loneliness against a jaunty brass backing on the opening Urge, then moves on to songs that are intimate, angry, or simply good fun. Many of the best are her own compositions, from the defiant Peligrosa, on which she is backed by rock musicians and a mariachi orchestra, to a rousing tribute to Benito Juárez, a 19th-century Mexican president. Elsewhere, this impressively varied set includes jazz balladry and a traditional drinking song.
When a teenage Polly Gibbons surfaced in UK clubs in the mid-00s, she sounded promising but liable to be lost in the throng of cool young female singers who had heard of Ella Fitzgerald. Ten years on, and Gibbons has proven herself a versatile artist who can switch from an emotionally subtle Cleo Laine-like purr to a soul-gospel wail in a blink, and she has a growing authority as a co-composer with Ronnie Scott’s jazz club pianist James Pearson. Originals like the smart and light-stepping title track, or the muscular, soul-belting You Can’t Just …, highlight Gibbons’ composing strengths, with the latter’s R&B groove slammed home by a snappy horn section. On Thomas Dolby’s Ability to Swing she balances a laid-back jazz feel with high-end soul power, suffuses her own poignant Midnight Prayer with gospel nuances, and rips into Aretha Franklin’s Dr Feelgood with searingly implacable relish. All these genres are familiar, and the stylistic diversity has a faintly CV-presenting air, but Polly Gibbons is unmistakably a class act, getting classier fast.
Hans Abrahamsen writes music that is clear and careful – he says he spends most of his time stripping things away – but in his early years he could be quite the polemicist. His First String Quartet came out shouting, fist in the air, a manifesto of 10 short preludes that rage in reverse from full-on atonalism to full-on baroque pastiche. In one way or another, he has always had a dialogue with music of the past, whether his own or other people’s, and this disc includes his lush and uncanny transcriptions of works by Nielsen (Fantasy Pieces) and Satie (Gymnopédies). Ensemble MidtVest has the diligence to keep them hushed, the urgency to propel his sombre Six Pieces for Violin, Horn and Piano. However, in the string quartet that diligence starts to sound drab – I missed the bright focus of last year’s recording from the Danish String Quartet.
Describing Halsey’s second record as a concept album would be to understate its preposterousness. Its title, Hopeless Fountain Kingdom, is her own concept of a purgatory-like realm whose back story is so deeply finessed that it includes individually named carp. There’s some Greek mythology thrown in along the way, too. But the imagery around the album’s release, and its spoken-word interludes, also pay homage to Baz Luhrmann’s Romeo + Juliet.
“I went balls-to-the-wall with this one,” is Halsey’s own way of recognising what is also a rather good pop record.“When people ask me about it I say: ‘Yeah, I went through this really terrible breakup and I naturally did what any normal 22-year-old girl would do – I called Baz Luhrmann.” Luhrmann loved the project so much that he got involved with the album’s promotion and expressed a desire to work with Halsey in the future. It has also been wholly embraced by the New Jersey-born singer’s fans, whose symbiotic relationship with the singer makes the hysteria surrounding peak-era Gaga seem nonchalant in comparison. Those fans have clearly responded well to the frankness with which Halsey talks about her sexuality, being bipolar and the product of an interracial marriage, and the struggles she faced as a teen. But they seem most seduced by the escapist worlds in which she situates her music. As she talks about her passion for video gaming, the Easter eggs and intricate backstories woven through her songs begin to make more sense, although none of this high-concept japery will come as any surprise to those who have been following her expeditious rise to the fringes of pop’s A-list. In 2014, her debut EP Room 93 centred on the broad theme of being stuck in a hotel room. The following year her album Badlands, including breakthrough hit New Americana, dwelled on mental isolation in a city based loosely on Las Vegas.
It’s Vegas where we find ourselves today. Tomorrow, Halsey will perform her current single Now Or Never at the 2017 Billboard Music Awards  under a huge sign that reads HOPELESS – a bold image to throw out into 2017’s meme-obsessed pop sphere. “Of course it is,” she accepts. “But I can control that. I’m the one putting it out there.”
It’s no surprise that Halsey thinks one step ahead of potential detractors; like all the best pop stars, this former Tumblr teen has experienced fandom from both sides, having found early attention under her real name, Ashley Frangipane, while knocking out covers and parodies on social media. One successful video, The Haylor Song, pastiched Taylor Swift’s Trouble and centred on One Direction fans’ concerns about Harry Styles’ then-girlfriend.
We’ve met for lunch at a Japanese restaurant situated, like so many restaurants on the main strip, within an underground casino. Rather spectacularly, on sitting down she’s ordered herself a mid-afternoon pint of Stella, which simply underscores the feeling that Halsey’s quite unlike most of her peers, and all the better for it. Her new album looks set to top the platinum-selling success of its predecessor and she recently spent three months at No 1 in the US with her Chainsmokers collaboration Closer. Meanwhile, above ground the streets are lined with billboards for shows by artists who have experienced, shall we say, something of a plateau in terms of appeal. With that in mind, it seems hard to avoid the message of one particular new Halsey song, Angel On Fire, that seems to be about a faded icon. The song is a bit about that, she agrees, but the real story is far more bleak. “It’s about me having a party at my house that I’m not attending,” Halsey says. “I locked myself in my bedroom, went to sleep and let everyone party until 6am. Then I did it again. And again, and again …” Over the course of several months last year, she’d invite people to parties at her LA home, then hide. When asked why, she begins reasonably (“I like entertaining people, I just don’t like having to do it myself”), then sounds like a sociopath (“It’s awesome because the next week people come up to you and say: ‘Your party was sick!’”). And then, when we discuss one specific line in Angel On Fire – “nobody seems to ask about me any more” – it all comes out.
“Everyone thinks they know what’s going on in my life, because they read it on the internet,” she says. “I’ll buy a table at a restaurant, I’ll buy bottles, I’ll pay for everyone, then we’ll go to the movies. People I barely know. I’m trying to make friends, I’m trying to get to know people. Nobody says thank you because they’re like: ‘Ashley has money.’”
This extends, she says, to her family; they don’t call to see how she is, which clearly troubles her, but not as much as the fact that she doesn’t want them to call, because if they did she’d only tell them how tired and busy she is. Fame and success are often dangerous not because of what they do to you, but because of what they do to the people around you. Right now, Halsey seems to feel pressure from both sides. “I used to be this social queen,” she sighs. “I could go anywhere, make anyone like me, go to any party, talk to anybody. I used to have no shame in walking up to someone on a plane or train and sitting down and chatting to them. I used to just talk. I used to be obsessed with people; now, I’m terrified of them.”
News of Halsey’s woes will likely prompt a spontaneous social media conga line from the surprising number of people who have taken a dislike to her. Some are unconvinced by aspects of her back story, including the claim that she was homelesswhen videos posted online at the time tend to depict the same bedroom, peppered among Instagram posts of shopping hauls. Today Halsey clarifies that period as being “in between living situations”. “I get it all the time,” she adds. “People say: ‘How could you be homeless, you were a One Direction fan?!’ It’s like, can’t you be both? Everyone wants to pick on me all the time. What do I have to do, an Excel page with a fucking timeline of my life, just so you guys will give me some credibility?”
One thing I was smart about was knowing that if I wanted to be a musician, I needed to keep up my appearance.
At this, she indeed offers up a timeline of her life, or at least the recent part. Halsey graduated from high school at 17 and moved in with an abusive boyfriend; she knew she had to get out of that situation, but because she hadn’t gone to college her parents had disowned her and wouldn’t offer financial support. She moved to the city and spent time living with a guy that she had started dating, who was a drug addict. “The dark part of it was when I was living with a heroin addict and not speaking to my family,” she adds. “People might say it doesn’t ‘count’, but it counted to me. Thinking all my friends were going to die and being by myself and being terrified. It was easily the darkest time of my life. The one thing I was doing was maintain my persona online. I never let anyone know I didn’t have a home. If there’s one thing I was smart about at the time, it was knowing that if I wanted to be a musician, I needed to keep up my appearance.”
On that point Halsey adds that the infamous bedroom belonged to her friend Tori, but in light of her previous stance on Taylor Swift (water under the bridge now, she insists), she finds it hard to demonise many of those who react strongly to her. Looking back on The Haylor Song, she says: “I understand it was pack mentality, and knowing that in stirring up that discourse we would all be on the same side about it, which is exactly what people do to me now. When you hate someone’s girlfriend or brother, or hate another band, that’s a gang mentality. People would rather talk together about something they hate than something they all love. And that’s so blatantly clear in our nation at the moment. People in political parties are stans: they sit online, they wait to see anyone who’s going to say something bad about their favourite, and they fucking trash them. They direct hate at any opposer. The political parties have literally turned into fandoms.”
The spirit of pop enthusiasm is strong in Halsey. While picking at dim sum, she talks passionately about Swift, Kendrick Lamar and Ryan Adams, and you get the feeling that if Halsey wasn’t a pop star having Gifs made about herself, she would be making them about other artists. But her forensic knowledge of pop, combined with her much-trumpeted social conscience, makes it all the more surprising that her new album includes a guest turn from Migos rapper Quavo, whose comments on homosexuality and subsequent apology both raised eyebrows. Presumably Halsey, whose album also includes a groundbreaking bisexual love song with Fifth Harmony’s Lauren Jauregui, did due diligence?
“I think he’s misunderstood,” she says. “Just because I choose to be a socially conscious artist, and I’m pretty good at it, that doesn’t mean every artist is going to be equipped to be politically correct. I don’t think he’s inherently homophobic, I think he’s in a tough place of trying to explain what he means. I agree his apology was bullshit but I can’t police everybody.” When I suggest that one place she surely can police everybody is within the walls of her own album, she pauses. “Yes, I can,” she adds, “and there’s a lot of people I wouldn’t put on my record. Iggy Azalea: absolutely not. She had a complete disregard for black culture. Fucking moron. I watched her career dissolve and it fascinated me.”
By this point Halsey needs a cigarette, and we say goodbye. Her own career seems to be in no danger of dissolving, but something she says suggests that she may one day change its direction for the sake of self-preservation: “Ultimately, I’m going to end up a songwriter. I don’t think I’m going to be an artist for ever. People who do it have a sick masochism.”
Halsey plays the Other Stage at Glastonbury Festival, Friday, 5.40pm. Hopeless Fountain Kingdom is out now
Riccardo Chailly succeeded Claudio Abbado as music director of the Lucerne Festival Orchestra in 2015. He began his career in the 1970s as Abbado’s assistant at La Scala, Milan, and in Lucerne he inherited an orchestra that had been created in his mentor’s image. Mahler’s symphonies featured prominently in Abbado’s programmes in Lucerne; by the time of his death in 2014, only the Eighth Symphony had not been performed there.
Chailly’s inaugural concert, in August last year, was dedicated to the memory of his predecessor and devoted to that massive work. His approach is characteristically thoughtful. There’s a measured treatment of the Veni Creator Spiritus hymn, which makes it a more-than-usually convincing prelude to the setting of the final scene of Goethe’s Faust in the second part, in which he takes immense care over every texture and judges the mounting drama perfectly.
As you would expect from a handpicked band, the orchestral playing is consistently glorious. The contribution of the combined choirs is authoritative and there is a fine team of soloists, in which the soprano Juliane Banse, the contralto Sara Mingardo and the tenor Andreas Schager stand out. Released on DVD without frills, it is an impressive document.
Plenty of John Coltrane’s early tunes have become jazz standards – Blue Train, Giant Steps, Naima, Moment’s Notice and so on – but few of his later works have found themselves in the rehearsal books. British saxophonist Denys Baptiste here attempts to redress this imbalance by re-contextualising eight compositions from Coltrane’s final years. Where the originals see Trane speaking in tongues and taking modal jazz into outer space, Baptiste and his band locate the core of each theme and gently ruminate. The skittery Afro-jazz of Dusk Dawn is turned into a gentle bossa nova; the muscular free bop of Transition becomes a rumbling, ambient ballad; the frenzied out-jazz of Ascent and Vigil are transformed into space-age funk; while Peace on Earth sounds – gloriously – like Prince’s Condition of the Heart, with pianist Nikki Yeoh doing a fine Alice Coltrane. Two original compositions, Neptune and Astral Trane, see Baptiste and fellow saxophonist Steve Williamson take their own Coltrane-style transcendental voyage.
What is it? A riot of hairspray, Spandex, butt-kick females and pure joy.
Why you’ll love it: When has TV ever depicted women of every shape and hue throwing off all vanity and slamming each other into the floor with abandon? Never. Or, at least, rarely. Liz Flahive and Carly Mensch’s brilliant new show about a bunch of misfit women in 1985 Los Angeles joining forces (and I mean forces) to make a pilot for a TV show, The Gorgeous Ladies of Wrestling (or GLOW), is a fictionalised account of the true story behind an 80s wrestling franchise.
Dreadful alcoholic misogynist director Sam Silvia (terrific standup Marc Maron) puts out the call for “unconventional” women to attend a mystery audition in an out-of-town gym. Among them is Mad Men and Community’s Alison Brie as serious actor Ruth Wilder. She is at a low ebb when she arrives to find all the other women who can’t get cast in 80s Hollywood sitting on benches, unsure what they are doing there.
The women in this are real – not Hollywood “real”. A breastfeeding woman looks like we do, half hanging out of her bra with a bag of peas over the bleeding nipple her son’s just bitten. The fat women are fat, not just a tad over a size 10. They say and do things that women on TV usually don’t.
Ruth looks as if she is being cut from the auditions when her friend Debbie (Nurse Jackie’s Betty Gilpin) arrives, screaming blue murder and accusing her of sleeping with her husband. It should be an “oh, come on” moment but every time this show pulls a similar set-piece, I find myself whooping American-style rather than booing. “Is this real?” asks one of the girls as the two women scrap. “Who the fuck cares?” replies another, summing up both wrestling and the essence of this show. Brie and co are grabbing my hand, pulling me through the ropes and I’m going with it, grinning like a giddy fool.
The two women are forced to work together just as their friendship unspools, director Sam has a past that is about to catch up with him, and the other women take it in turns to ease their way to the front as the episodes go on. And there are so many surprises. Rhonda, the quirky British girl with the familiar face, turns out to be singer Kate Nash in a brilliant break-out role. She is at once dazzling and a total natural.
There are so many magnificent women in this cast, all of whom had to learn hardcore wrestling moves to make the fake look “real-fake” and not “body-doubled fake”.
Sydelle Noel as ex-film star Cherry Bang has quiet power and a nice line in putdowns. When spoilt rich kid Melrose (Jackie Tohn) winds her up, she chokes her with a “sleeper hold” until she passes out. “That’s lunch,” she deadpans and leaves the ring.
The one thing the awful, bourbon-soaked director gives the women (while having his cake, naturally) is an opportunity to express themselves on screen in an unselfconscious, powerful way. Yes, the TV pilot is funded by a giddy rich boy with a Malibu beach house and a robot butler, but it’s the women who take charge. I haven’t seen a US show as smart, grimy, snappy and ludicrous in a long time. It is everything I want right now with a big, lurid cherry on top. If GLOW isn’t the best fun you have in front of a screen this year, I’ll give you 10 bucks.
Where: Netflix.
Length: Ten 30-minute episodes, available to stream now.
Stand-out episode: Every second is joy, but if you are still sitting down by the end of episode 10 as the gang finally shoot their pilot, you must be made of solid marble.
If you liked GLOW, watch: GLOW – The Story of the Gorgeous Ladies of Wrestling (documentary on Netflix); Community (Amazon Prime).
“You take someone to the airport, it’s clearly the beginning of a relationship,” observes Billy Crystal in When Harry Met Sally. “That’s why I have never taken anyone to the airport at the beginning of a relationship … Because eventually things move on and you don’t take someone to the airport and I never wanted anyone to say to me: ‘How come you never take me to the airport any more?’”
And so to Rupert Murdoch and Jerry Hall, who are still at the accompanying-your-wife-to-lefty-movies-about-homelessness stage of their relationship. Last year, you will recall, the News Corp boss married Jerry, and the relationship is no less giddy now he is in his 87th year. How else to interpret Rupert’s decision to accompany his wife to an event at the East End film festival last week? The couple attended the Hackney Picturehouse premiere of The Forgotten Man, in which Jerry has a brief cameo, and which is described as an honest, black-and-white representation of economic divides. Rupert’s verdict on the work is unknown – I imagine the only words he spoke all night were a brisk “Keep the engine running” to the driver of his Range Rover. But organisers are more optimistic.
Festival director Alison Poltock says: “I do hope it made a positive impact on him.” That feels quite hopeful. Having said that, Murdoch does tend to see the positives in bleak things – for instance, he was thrilled at talk of an Iraq invasion in 2003, as the effects on the price of oil would be “bigger than any tax cut in any country”. Nevertheless, it feels a little late in the day for Rupert to rebrand as part of the woke generation.
In fact – and I don’t want to go out on a limb here – the indications are that the News Corp boss wouldn’t be accepted with open arms should he even try. According to a local Hackney news site, Murdoch was spotted as the lights came up after the movie by “a young Corbynista” in the audience, who took the opportunity to shout at him: “We are the majority now, you cunt!”
Ah. Again, none of us wishes to get too deeply back into the predictions game in these most volatile of times. Even so, instinct suggests that Jerry Hall will not require a plus-one for next year’s East End film festival.
Late-night hosts on Wednesday addressed the healthcare bill being crafted behind closed doors by a group of Senate Republicans, and the exoneration of the police officer who shot and killed Philando Castile at a routine traffic stop.
Seth Meyers began: “Senate Republicans have been engaged in one of the most shameless, breathtakingly cynical exercises in political history, writing a healthcare bill behind closed doors and not telling anyone what’s in it.
“You might remember that last month, after narrowly passing their healthcare bill in the House, Republicans held a giddy celebration in the White House rose garden with President Trump, who was so happy to finally get a bill passed, no matter how unpopular, that he could hardly contain himself. But since that ceremony, you’ve probably heard suspiciously little about the GOP healthcare plan, and apparently, that’s by design.”
Meyers went on to surmise that there’s a reason Senate Republicans have formed the bill in secret, with neither Republican nor Democratic operatives in the know.
“If you’re curious why the Senate would go to such extraordinary lengths to keep their bill hidden from public view, it’s because the bill they’re working on is massively unpopular, and both Democrats and Republicans agree,” Meyers said.
“Remember, the bill is basically just a giant tax cut for the rich, paid for by taking health insurance away from millions of people. The House bill cut Medicaid spending by $880bn to give the wealthiest people a near trillion-dollar tax cut. The plan is so toxic just 8% of Americans think the Senate should pass the healthcare bill as is. Even The Mummy got a 15% on Rotten Tomatoes. This bill is half as good as The Mummy. In fact, The Mummy might be the healthcare bill.”
Samantha Bee, on TBS, joked that Republicans “are hard at work on their super-double-secret-written-in-invisible ink healthcare bill”.
She went on to congratulate Karen Handel, who defeated Jon Ossoff to win the House seat in Georgia’s sixth district. “The Georgia sixth is a longtime Republican seat once held by Newt Gingrich, which would explain the thin film of slime still stuck to the seat, but it was a coveted seat nonetheless.”
“Congratulations to Georgia’s Karen Handel for winning the House seat vacated by Tom Price, who joined Trump’s cabinet as secretary of health and human services, and then immediately got to work studying the health effects of smoke being blown up Donald Trump’s ass.”
Bee then moved on to discussing Castile and the recent Bill Cosby hearings: “In criminal justice news, juries aren’t sure whether serial rape is a crime, but made it clear that being a black motorist is still a capitol offense,” referring to the acquittal of the police officer who shot dead Philando Castile in Minnesota last summer.
Trevor Noah of Comedy Central dedicated his opening to the subject, giving an impassioned monologue on the pattern of police killings of black men in the wake of the dashcam footage, released on Wednesday, from the incident.
“Yesterday on the show, we spoke about the killing of Philando Castile and the verdict that exonerated the police office who shot him,” Noah began. “And honestly, I thought that I felt all I could feel about this story until I got home and watched a newly released video.”
He continued: “When I watched this video, it broke me. You see so many of these videos and you start to get numb. But this one, seeing the child, that little girl, getting out of the car after watching a man get killed, it broke my heart into little pieces.”
The police officer who shot Castile, Jeronimo Yanez, was acquitted of manslaughter charges on 16 June.
“You know what’s the most painful thing?” Noah asked. “For years people said there’s a simple solution to police shootings: give the police body cameras. Film everything, and there will be no question about what happened. And black people have already taken that initiative. Thanks to cellphones, every black person has a body-cam now. Black people have been saying for years, just give us an indictment. Just get us in front of a jury of our peers, our fellow citizens. Show them the video, the evidence, and then they will see it and justice will be served. And black people finally get there, and it’s like, ‘Wait, what? Nothing?’
“Are we all watching the same video?” Noah asked, incredulously. “The video where a law-abiding man followed the officer’s instructions to the letter of the law, and was killed regardless? People watched that video and then voted to acquit?”
In the video, Castile’s girlfriend Diamond Reynolds can be heard saying: “You shot him four times, sir.”
Noah continued: “It’s fucking mind-blowing that Diamond Reynolds has just seen her boyfriend shot in front of her, and she still has the presence of mind to be deferential to the policeman. In that moment, the cop has panicked, but clearly black people never forget their training. But still, according to the law, the jury has to make a decision, and that decision is: ‘Do you think this policeman was justified in thinking that his life was in danger?’ And their opinion, having watched that video, having listened to that exchange, still says: ‘Yes, I can see why that cop was afraid.’
“But why?” Noah asked. “Was it because Philando Castile was being polite? Was it because he was following the officer’s instructions? Was it because he was in the car with his family? Or was it because Philando Castile was black? It’s one thing to have the system against you – the district attorneys, the police unions, the courts. That’s one thing. But when a jury of your peers, your community, sees this evidence, and decides that even this is self-defense, that is truly depressing.”
If you’re a comic keen to express, in great detail, the many difficulties of your everyday life on screen, then congrats – Hollywood wants to hear your story, even if a mass audience often doesn’t. The critical success of Louie has led to shows from Tig Notaro, Marc Maron, Pete Holmes, Cameron Esposito, Maria Bamford and Aziz Ansari, all riffing on versions of themselves with mixed, and sometimes under-seen, results. It’s become a strangely overpopulated sub-genre of late, and a feature-length film based on the early days of standup-turned-sitcom star Kumail Nanjiani arrives at a time when it feels as necessary as another superhero reboot.
But The Big Sick is not just the story of a comedian trying to earn a living. It’s a great many other things too, all working seamlessly together to create a charming, multifaceted film that never feels as overstuffed as it could in different hands. It’s primarily a romantic comedy, but also a family drama detailing the unusual courtship between Nanjiani, his girlfriend and her parents.
Kumail is an Uber driver struggling to get his career as a comic off the ground while simultaneously facing a continuous conveyor belt of potential brides from his eager mother. His Pakistani parents are keen to engineer an arranged marriage for him with a pre-selected Muslim woman but when Kumail falls for Emily (Zoe Kazan), a white American student, he’s faced with a difficult decision. Their relationship ultimately falls apart as a result, but soon after he hears word that Emily has been struck down with a mysterious illness and, with his panicked input, she is placed in a medically induced coma. Despite no longer being her boyfriend, he feels compelled to stay close, accompanied by her traumatized, and bemused, parents (Ray Romano and Holly Hunter).
There’s a refreshing lack of self-indulgence on display in The Big Sick, a surprise given how often it tends to permeate through not only other comic confessionals but autobiographical fodder in general. It helps that Nanjiani decided to co-write the script with – spoiler – his now wife, Emily V Gordon; we have an unusually well-balanced view of a burgeoning relationship boasting not just a male character of depth but a counterpart who feels like more than just a screenwriter’s idea of a woman. Their early scenes together boast a genuine spark, but it’s in studying the other familial relationships that the film really brings something sharp and distinctive to the table.
Exploring the dynamic between suitor and potential in-laws feels like a relatively untapped source of both comedic and dramatic potential, and director Michael Showalter (improving on his unbearably twee Sally Field drama Hello My Name Is Doris), working with producer Judd Apatow, smartly recruits the unlikely pair of Romano and Hunter to help bring this side of the story to life. They’re both superbly cast, deftly attuned to one another in a lived-in, messy way, and it’s a joy to see Hunter given the opportunity to flex her underutilized talents. She’s the film’s MVP, a warm, feisty, naturalistic performance that could see her return to the Oscar race next year.
Nanjiani and Kazan are also a likable leading couple, the latter managing to shake off the manic pixie dream girl trope she’s usually stuck with in tiresome indie dirge such as Ruby Sparks and What If. The film is also an important step for Apatow, and while it does conform to his obsession with conservative happy endings (this one is at least true) there’s a maturity here that feels far removed from the comedy he often attaches himself to, working far more successfully than his last film as director, the uneven Amy Schumer launchpad Trainwreck.
There’s also a casual softening of Muslim stereotypes that’s easy to take for granted, especially arriving so soon after the second season of Master of None, but given the current climate Nanjiani’s nuanced depiction of his family is vital, another one of the film’s many plusses. Both Nanjiani and Gordon are reluctant to paint themselves or their families in broad strokes, each character a dysfunctional maelstrom of good and bad, and it’s this genuine fact-based texture that helps to make the film feel far from a Hollywood construct.
The romantic comedy has become something of an ailed genre of late, but The Big Sick is a welcome jolt, briefly bringing it back to life with depth and wit before it inevitably returns to the coma it’s been stuck in.
• This article was amended on 23 June 2017 to correct the spelling of the names Kumail Nanjiani and Tig Notaro.
The Da Vinci Code’s Ron Howard has replaced The Lego Movie’s Phil Lord and Chris Miller as director of the Han Solo spin-off movie, the much-anticipated new instalment of the Star Wars standalone series.
According to the Hollywood Reporter, Howard joined the film two days after Lord and Miller were sensationally fired over “creative differences” with the film’s producers Lucasfilm. Reports have suggested clashes with veteran scriptwriter Lawrence Kasdan were partly responsible.
What has, in the magazine’s words, “sent shockwaves around Hollywood” is that the film was apparently three-quarters of the way through its shoot, with just over three weeks left to go – but with several weeks of reshoots already scheduled. Howard is due to meet the cast – which includes Alden Ehrenreich as Solo and Donald Glover as Lando Calrissian – and examine the material that has been already filmed.
Howard is considered to be a very safe pair of hands, although his last two features, Da Vinci Code follow-up Inferno and the Herman Melville-esque In the Heart of the Sea were significant financial disappointments. However, he is the winner of the best director Oscar for A Beautiful Mind in 2002, and directed the 1988 fantasy Willow for Lucasfilm (he also appeared in George Lucas’ second feature, American Graffiti, in 1973).
The Han Solo film – as yet untitled – is the second Star Wars standalone, or Anthology, film in production, after 2016’s Rogue One: A Star Wars Story, and is due for release on 25 May 2018.
Pity the Deadwood fan. Every so often, those of us who adored David Milch’s dark-hued western, which ran for three short seasons over a decade ago, have our hopes raised sky-high with talks of a movie. Just last month Ian McShane, who played the fantastically foul-mouthed bar owner, Al Swearengen, said Milch had turned in a two-hour movie script to HBO, noting: “If they don’t deliver, blame them.”
Even in the age of “peak TV” Deadwood stands alone by dint of its ambition, its dark energy, its voice. Milch’s operatic retelling of the gold rush era had an uncanny ability to place you right there in the mud, muck and mayhem. HBO cited falling ratings and soaring costs when they called time – and Milch himself has admitted he turned down the offer of a truncated last series, stating: “I didn’t want to limp home.” A decade later, he’s clearly had a change of heart. Here’s hoping the two-hour conclusion reaches our screens soon. Sarah Hughes
It was the most excruciating and hilarious high-school drama imaginable. It had mathletes, burnouts, hermaphrodite tuba players, bullies and Bill dressing up as the Bionic Woman for Halloween. It was defiantly, brilliantly nerdy, and skyrocketed the careers of everyone involved – from masterminds Judd Apatow and Paul Feig to unknowns such as Seth Rogen and James Franco.
And then it was axed after just 18 episodes, the last six of which were only aired following a public outcry. Since 2000, fans have had to accept that Daniel’s burgeoning Dungeons & Dragons career as Carlos the dwarf, Nick’s disco-dancing moment of glitterball glory and Lindsay’s Grateful Dead rebellion are the closest we’ll get to closure.
Why was it cancelled? Apparently, the characters weren’t “cool” enough, which led to copious spats. But the final nail in the coffin may have been the absurd popularity of the show it was pitted against: Who Wants to Be a Millionaire? Apatow has since said: “Everything I’ve done, in a way, is revenge against the people who cancelled Freaks and Geeks.” We share your pain, Judd. KA
The greatest programme that nobody watched, Review followed a troubled man as he attempted to review real-life situations for his viewers. What’s it like to eat 15 pancakes in a row? What’s it like to be racist? To divorce your wife? To get addicted to cocaine? To murder someone? Each task would scoop out the host’s soul whole, and what started as a lighthearted plan quickly descends into outright broken misery. To this day, I still can’t believe they’re not making more of this. Stuart Heritage
“So I started hanging out with Rayanne Graff, just for fun. Just ’cause it seemed like if I didn’t I would die or something.” Gripping from the very first lines of Angela Chase’s internal monologue, this was as gut-wrenchingly true to a girl’s high-school experience as it’s possible to get. My So-Called Life catalysed every corridor crush, every parental let-down, every wild urge to be free. Even seemingly simple moments like Jordan Catalano approaching Angela in a hallway made a million teens shiver.
Issues like drug overdoses, homophobia and homelessness weren’t relegated to the sidelines of a happy family core but woven into the fabric of the story, which probably goes some way to explaining the low ratings that ultimately got it pulled after just 19 episodes. But this was a hair-plaited, plaid-shirted look at real life – and it still feels luminous. DBS
Way before he was Baltimore drug lord Stringer Bell or DCI John Luther, Idris Elba battled vampires in this 1998 horror series, which had a wooden stake plunged through its heart after just six episodes. It followed a covert vampire-hunting government group, who had learned that the secret bloodsucker community was expanding, and that they could only be identified using UV light (which showed up their neckbites). Like a British Mulder and Scully, the team – led by Jack Davenport and Elba – had to track down these vamps on the loose. Elba got the best action sequences, dashing garlic grenades and trying to escape warehouses chock-full of vampire coffins. In fact, he loved playing Vaughan Rice so much that he reprised the role for the pilot of the American version – which never even made it to air. KA
“Where is Jessica Hyde?”; the spoon scene; Mr Rabbit; the school shooting – Dennis Kelly’s groundbreaking conspiracy thriller had so many weird, wonderful and downright shocking elements it’s hard to believe it packed them all into just 12 episodes. But that was all Utopia – about a comic book that predicts catastrophes, and the ragtag group of outcasts tasked with keeping it out of the hands of some seriously sadistic villains – was given in the end.
Not only was it, with its wild primary-colour visuals and strange minimalist soundtrack, unlike anything seen or heard on British TV before or since, it also ended on a whopping great cliffhanger. David Fincher tried to get his own version off the ground a couple of years back to no avail, so it looks like that’s the last we’ll see of Arby, Wilson Wilson et al. Still, we’ll always have the spoon scene. Oh god, the spoon scene … GM
Like one of its baffling storylines, the disappearance of Garth Marenghi’s Darkplace has never been explained. Matthew Holness and Richard Ayoade’s spoof hospital-set sci-fi is one of the funniest TV comedies ever made, an addictively weird mix of Acorn Antiques-style ineptitude and mind-bendingly bad plots that would eventually make it a massive cult hit.
Holness plays Marenghi, an author equal parts Stephen King and Nigel Farage, who penned po-faced horror Darkplace in the 80s – only for it to be pulled from broadcast. Now, the channel is belatedly screening the series, and Marenghi and his publisher Dean Learner (Ayoade) are on hand to offer ridiculous commentary on the action, while also starring in the original. The show-within-a-show is a masterpiece of nostalgia-fuelled parody that teems with comic talent: there’s Alice Lowe, Matt Berry and guests stars like Stephen Merchant, Noel Fielding and Graham Linehan.
Aside from all the atrocious acting and amazingly awful dialogue it deprived us of, perhaps the saddest thing about the loss of Garth Marenghi was that it seemed to stall the incredibly funny Holness’s career. He hasn’t had a comparable vehicle for his talents since. Ayoade, of course, went on to bigger, if not necessarily better, things: Darkplace remains the highlight of his illustrious career. RA
Billed as a British Oz, this prison drama was certainly dark enough. Yet Buried was an altogether more claustrophobic affair than its US counterpart. Nominally the story of Lee Kingley (the excellent Lennie James), a career criminal who claims he is “morally innocent”, we come to understand, as the series progresses, why Kingley might feel this way. The real focus, though, was not on one man’s battle to survive, but on the way incarceration crushes the life out of inmates, slowly leaching hope away with each passing day. Despite critical acclaim, Channel 4’s axe fell – a decision they probably regretted when it won the Bafta for best drama the following year. Sarah Hughes
How fitting that a show about failure should itself struggle to find success. Co-written by Paul Rudd and Veronica Mars creator Rob Thomas among others, Party Down was a wonderfully arch comedy about a group of actors having to slum it in the LA catering trade. Each episode saw the team cater a different event – weddings, high school reunions, the odd orgy – which would almost certainly end in disaster and cringe comedy. Despite featuring a murderers’ row of comics (Jane Lynch, Lizzy Caplan, Megan Mullally, Adam Scott, Ken Marino), it was watched by about seven people and soon put out of its misery. But its legacy can be seen in everything from Bojack Horseman’s oddly affecting comedy of disappointment to the high farce of Veep. GM
Possibly a victim of its awkward faux-jolly title, 2007’s Party Animals, delving as it did into the lives of Westminster regulars, was clearly meant as a political This Life – but what emerged was far more than a pale copy of the 90s legal hit.
Matt Smith was on fine form as the naive Danny, constantly frustrated by his brother Scott’s (Andrew Buchan) more cynical take on politics. Patrick Baladi was a suitably smooth rising Tory MP and the female characters also stood out, from Raquel Cassidy’s conflicted Labour politician Jo to Andrea Riseborough’s sharp-tongued Kirsty. Political insiders took issue with the show’s lack of realism, but the plotting was fast and the script witty to the last. Sarah Hughes
On 10 June 2007, after the screen went black on The Sopranos for the last time, the next thing HBO viewers saw was the opening episode of John from Cincinatti. It’s safe to say the channel had big plans for David Milch’s California surf-noir. What they got was one of the most enigmatic shows in TV history.
A family of pro-surfer burn-outs (The Yosts) are befriended by a mysterious, almost mute stranger (John). The Yosts are acid casualties, smackheads, bankrupts and screw-ups. They are overwhelmed by internal grudges and a cocktail of weird psychosexual peccadillos – to give a flavour, black sheep son Butchie is still (not unreasonably) flashing back to the day he was shown how to masturbate as a teenager by his mother while she was on an acid trip. Butchie is now in his mid-30s.
Can John heal the family? Is John in fact Jesus? What the holy hell is going on? The series started just-about-linear but became more baffling as it proceeded. It shed viewers as it gained cod-mystical airs and graces, and eventually collapsed under the weight of its own bloody-mindedness after one season. But it’s hard not to feel a grudging admiration; there’s never been anything quite like this. PH
When Aaron Sorkin embarked on his magnum opus, The West Wing, he was one season into this, his first walk-and-talk drama. Sports Night was remarkable in its prescience; a fictional 11pm show that took in southerners protesting the Confederate flag, locker-room rape culture and sexism in sport – but 20 years ago. If ABC had only had the foresight to let the show live, Sorkin could well still be writing it (in fact, it could be giving General Hospital a run for its money) because sports broadcasting comes with built-in Sorkin tropes: outrage and underdogs, rapid-fire dialogue and lifelong devotion. DBS
Before she played a hero, Krysten Ritter played a monster. As Chloe, the show’s eponymous bitch, Ritter smashed a hole in the side of the American sitcom. In the second episode she set her roommate up with her dad, despite him still being married to her mum who uses a wheelchair. It was arguably the nastiest and least moral mainstream sitcom ever – so nasty that Eric Andre managed to play the open-hearted love interest – and it was junked halfway through the second series (that was aired out of sequence anyway). Stuart Heritage
Mining cathartic comedy from every purportedly shameful part of being a teenage girl, Caz and Caitlin Moran’s endlessly quotable sitcom – based on their working-class childhoods – was so taboo-obliterating it should have been a public service announcement. Needless to say, there aren’t many (or any) uproariously life-affirming shows about liberated girls negotiating their way through puberty and poverty, and it was a massive blow when it got canned last year. Still, there’s a pilot in the works for a US version that, with Juno’s Diablo Cody on board, has a good chance of being as brilliantly raucous as the original. RA
This Julia Davis and Jessica Hynes monstrosity – which only went as far as a pilot – really does need to be seen. It’s a domestic comedy, but that’s not the half of it. Think Terry and June reimagined by Lars Von Trier and you’re in the right ballpark.
The titular pair are casually belittled housewives. Lizzie (Davis) is cursed with a scornful husband, who is openly shagging the au pair. Hynes’s Sarah is in a similar boat – her other half will only agree to sex if he can hold a pillow over her face. It’s staggeringly grim; a masterclass in ugliness. But then, things change. Revenge is plotted. A certain Thelma and Louise vibe creeps in.
Sadly, we’ll never know where this was going. The BBC got cold feet, dumped the pilot in the graveyard of late Saturday night, then pulled the plug. But a full series of this glorious squalor must still be floating around in Davis and Hynes’s heads. We’d love to think that one day, all will be revealed. PH
What are your favourite TV shows cancelled way before their time? Please let us know in the comments below.
A group of clamorous punters gather around a table on the cobbles. They’ve come to the pavement to escape the heat of the kitchen. Dodging crates of tomatoes, waiters dole out dishes piled high with fried things – mozzarella, prawns, courgette flowers – and bruschetta. The voice of Fred Buscaglione crackles from a speaker, just-heard over calls for Campari and the clatter of plates.
You’d be forgiven for thinking we were in Italy. Yet this is east London, just off Columbia Road. We are at Campania & Jones, a southern Italian restaurant housed in a 19th-century dairy, which, like the wardrobe to Narnia, feels like a magic gateway to Naples. This evening, the restaurant, Cook editor Mina Holland, columnist Rachel Roddy and myself are collaborating on a dinner (see gallery) celebrating the transformative power of books and food in aid of the Worldreader charity.
It all started in Naples, as depicted by the author Elena Ferrante in her Neapolitan quartet. Like so many readers, I have been spellbound by these books; by the depiction of a city fraught with rivalrous family tensions, and by the portrait of a decades-long friendship between two girls.
There is, I think, a specific emptiness that accompanies the end of a book that has become your whole world. It’s a sentiment that Mina and I shared after finishing Ferrante’s saga, having bid goodbye to characters who had taken on a form beyond the page. After questioning how to prolong the life of a story, we decided to try and bring the books to life through food. We recruited Rachel who, in collaboration with chef Paolo De Martino and Emma Lantosca of Campania & Jones, dreamed up a menu of dishes from the cucina povera that might have sustained Ferrante’s characters. The result was a spread worthy of a wedding feast: ravioli alla norma (with aubergine, tomatoes and speck), sausages and greens, and babà al rum e composta di visciole (a rum-drenched cake served with viscous cherry compote).
A central theme of the Neapolitan novels is that education is a form of freedom. The main characters, Lila and Elena, view literature as a means to escape from the impoverished neighbourhood where they have grown up – a place of “indistinguishable urban debris” with “flaking walls” and “scratched doors”. It is Lila – having taught herself to read at the age of three – who emerges as the brilliant one. But her father refuses to pay for his daughter to continue her studies beyond elementary school, and she remains trapped while Elena leaves to study at university.
The beneficiary of Monday’s dinner, Worldreader, works to foster a lifelong culture of reading among young people worldwide. Over 1 billion people are held back by illiteracy or lack of access to books, while millions more struggle with reading because the books available to them do not reflect their own experience; they can’t see themselves in the characters they encounter. Through partnerships with more than 300 publishers, Worldreader distributes culturally relevant titles for free through e-readers and mobile apps to 5 million people in 43 languages each month. Monday’s event raised over £4,000 to help them give everyone the opportunity to achieve their potential, like Elena, rather than being caught in a story not of their choosing, like Lila.
There are several recent examples of the food industry supporting social causes and starting conversations across cultures. In November last year, the Cook for Syria campaign saw dozens of London restaurants feature dishes inspired by Middle-Eastern cooking on their menus. More than £150,000 was raised for Unicef’s Syria relief fund and a bestselling cookbook was born. But more importantly, the initiative provided an entry point to Syrian culture at a time when the country’s civil war was the only information that made the news.
Food has a singular power to unite people, whether providing a platform for global cultures or being used as a form of aid on the ground. In the aftermath of the Grenfell Tower fire, displaced residents were overwhelmed with donations of clothing, toiletries and food. And the offerings of communal meals – including North Kensington’s Muslim community organising an Iftar spread for those affected; local restaurants (Jamie’s Italian, Pizza East) opening their doors to provide sanctuary – were deeply moving examples of a community coming together. More than any other form of popular culture, food provides room for people to act in situations that can at times feel helpless. It underpins our physiological needs; it is a human common denominator. everyone must eat.
As much as food is a rallying force, it is also a transformative one. On Monday evening, food changed something individual – the activity of reading – into a collective experience. It became an anchor between Naples and London, between Ferrante’s fictional world and Worldreader’s social mission to make books accessible for all. When food is shared, it moves beyond something that nourishes on a most basic level to a form of sustenance that can enact real change. The communities created by food – when mobilised – are greater than the sum of ingredients that might be found on a plate.
Edgar Wright is in remarkably, unfathomably good spirits. It’s day 23 of a high-pressure shoot for Baby Driver, the director’s latest and biggest film, and Wright is standing on a closed-off portion of a highway in Atlanta, overseeing a frenetic car chase on a scale that easily surpasses anything he’s made before.
Wright is casually propped up against one of the many vehicles on the road, wearing a boater and looking like the postcard embodiment of an Englishman abroad. As he excitedly talks about the world he created on paper coming to life, Jamie Foxx walks past in a boilersuit. “Everything is fun with Jamie Foxx around,” Wright says, beaming at his Oscar-winning star. “We have Gladys Knight and the Pips playing, so we good,” Foxx replies, one earphone in.
Baby Driver’s set is permanently soundtracked, which isn’t a great surprise looking back at Wright’s films, which have always been heavily indebted to music. From Queen’s Don’t Stop Me Now scoring a zombie fight scene in Shaun of the Dead to Michael Cera’s garage-rock band Sex Bob-Omb in Scott Pilgrim vs the World, it’s always played a key part but there hasn’t been anything quite as musically ambitious as what he’s planned for his latest.
Baby Driver is in many ways a classic heist movie, but rather like the genres covered in Wright’s Cornetto trilogy (Shaun of the Dead, Hot Fuzz and The World’s End), he’s taking a familiar framework and giving it a bespoke remix. It’s the story of a getaway driver called Baby, played by Fault in Our Stars/Divergent pin-up Ansel Elgort, who suffers from tinnitus.
In order to mask the constant ringing in his ears, he soundtracks his high-speed heists with whatever’s blasting out of his iPod: Queen, Barry White, Beck. The result is a jukebox musical crime thriller unlike anything else.
“When it’s an original movie, all the things that make it unique are the things that people tend to be most scared of,” Wright says later. “On the one hand it’s this car chase movie with all these heists, action and big stars; but what comes with that are these more unique and idiosyncratic elements. It was always our objective to take an action movie and present it in a very different way.”
Characters move in time with the music, actions correlate with beats and lyrics often reference what we’re seeing on screen. “As you read the script, you listened to the soundtrack,” says Lily James, playing Baby’s love interest and in doing so finally freeing herself from the period garb of Downton Abbey and Cinderella. “There was a playlist that went alongside it. I remember being so desperate to get this part.”
The sound/action structure also meant that during production actors were given earpieces so they could hear the corresponding song as they acted. Jon Hamm, playing wildly against type as a violent, tattooed criminal, wasn’t entirely unfamiliar with this way of working. “Having worked on Mad Men, I’ve been choreographed to within an inch of my life,” he tells me. “Choreography is like anything else: it’s a direction and you have to work it into your performance. I enjoyed it, I found it a challenge.”
Baby Driver is also another chance for Hamm to scuff the suave persona of Don Draper. “You want to attach yourself to really talented film-makers and at a certain level, at a studio level, I don’t get offered those scripts,” he says. “Those go to Brad Pitt and Christian Bale and Denzel, so if they all say no to something then I’m like, ‘All right, let’s do it’. I feel like I’m in a good zone. I wish I was on a more elevated level but then I’m doing OK.”
It’s also a major opportunity for 23-year-old Elgort to prove his mettle outside the world of young adulthood. Despite insisting he can still play much, much younger (“If it was a Martin Scorsese movie or something and they said there was a great 15-year-old in it, I would just transform myself back to 15”), he’s keen to be known as an adult, which might not be easy, given his character’s name. “I have hope that enough people will see this,” he says. “The only weird thing is that everyone will be calling me Baby.”
Whether it was entirely intentional or not, most of the cast do have some sort of musical experience: from actors who have sung on screen before (Kevin Spacey, James) to actors with musical careers (Elgort, Foxx) to actual musicians (Sky Ferreira, Flea). It even led to some off-screen collaboration. “I actually got Flea to play bass on a track,” an understandably proud Elgort tells me. “I plan to work with Jamie 100%. We’re going to see and maybe eventually we’ll do something with it.”
But while they were all on board with Wright’s unconventional idea, it didn’t mean that things were easy. “It was a really tough exercise trying to do this movie,” Wright says. “It’s the kind of movie where you have to prep every single element of it. It really was a Herculean effort to get through everything on the day.”
Like his other films, Baby Driver is equipped with a distinctive aesthetic, one that required a heavy amount of storyboarding and even an on-set editor, cutting and crafting as production continued. The day I met Wright, he might have been all smiles but, as he told me later, there’s usually a point on every project when he sends a panicked “I can’t take this any more” email to his producer. “I think I always have that moment where I’m on the ledge at some point during the movie,” Wright says. “Usually it’s through sheer exhaustion. When you’re trying to operate on four hours’ sleep, you get a little insecure and paranoid. Would I make it easier on myself? I don’t think anybody would want to see me make something that was half-arsed. What’s the value of that? You do end up killing yourself on every movie but I was like that on Spaced, pushing the boat out and over-extending myself.”
Pushing the boat out on this particular set translated to an almost dogmatic avoidance of the green screen and the choice to prioritise practical stunts over a deluge of visual effects. Wright wanted to capture an old-school French Connection/Bullitt feel without using digital effects as “a crutch”.
So despite a clear commercial eye, it’s yet another reason why it’s hard to imagine Wright working within the confines of the franchise system. (You can ignore those Star Wars rumours that have cropped up online of late; he tells me they’re false.) He came close – he was attached to write and direct Ant-Man but exited the project after a clear division early in the process. “I think with that particular case, I was writer/director on the film and, quite suddenly and very close to production, I wasn’t the writer any more and then my whole reason for being there was gone,” he explains. “It’s not to say that I wouldn’t do a franchise film in the future, but it would have to be the right circumstances. I think that the thing with those films is you should only do it if you feel like you’re the only person who can direct it.”
While a franchise film might not bring Wright guaranteed job satisfaction, it would at least bring him the one thing that’s as yet eluded him: box office success. While the Cornetto trilogy all achieved minor victories, his first American film, Scott Pilgrim vs the World disappointed, failing to recoup its $60m budget. “The only pressure I think is that you suddenly feel like you’re shouldering the future of all original movies,” he says. “For the sake of film history, it’s important for studios to make more original films. You look at the slate of films for this year and Baby Driver is like a unicorn. You just want the audience to embrace something different.”
Baby Driver is released on 28 June
The morning sun slowly cooks the inside of your tent. You wipe away the mud flaking on your brow, and with a cider-induced thunderstorm crashing inside your skull you come around, and you ask yourself: did I get married last night?
Many who went to Glastonbury in the mid-2000s and visited Lost Vagueness, the festival’s first after-hours party area, may well recognise this scenario. It hosted the Chapel of Love, an anarchic marriage institution that unofficially wed inebriated attendees (allegedly including Kate Moss and Pete Doherty) as well as offering a boxing ring for those who weren’t getting along so well.
It was all part of a muddy take on immersive theatre, albeit one with a “turn a blind eye” policy to patrons bringing their own drugs and booze. Lost Vagueness’s psychedelic backyard version of Vegas – presented through a blend of Victorian freak show dress up, cabaret, burlesque casinos, ballroom dancing, scrapheap robots, 1950s kitsch and gothic glamour – was the festival within a festival that reignited a spark in Glastonbury during the period in which it needed it most.
“We weren’t selling as many tickets before it,” Glastonbury founder Michael Eavis says in a new documentary, Lost in Vagueness, whilst former operations director Melvin Benn goes one further, saying: “Without it, Glastonbury would have died”. The area ran from 2000 to 2007 and gave birth to the festival’s “naughty corner” of carnivalesque nighttime revelry which, for many punters, is as much of an attraction as any band or DJ.
When it began, Lost Vagueness offered some glitz amongst the grime. Regular attendee Nick recalls his first time there in 2005 wearing a backless gown and fur coat. “In teen movie dream sequence-style, we were greeted with approving glances and a nod. The velvet rope was held back and we entered into a heady mix of smoke, chandeliers, gaming tables complete with kitted-out croupiers, trapeze artists hanging from the roof and a topless female Elvis impersonator serenading the unflinching regulars. Making our way to the private bar we were informed they sold three things: champagne, whisky and cigars.”
Like many, Nick found himself hours later in the chapel about to be hitched to a stranger. “We were married by a DJ in front of a congregation of pilled-up and passed-out revellers. We spent our honeymoon on a deserted bandstand watching the sun come up and never saw each other again.” Another unnamed attendee recalls going into the area, imbibing some LSD he was presented with in the casino by a fellow attendee, “seeing a lot of weird shit” and then waking up in a portaloo the next day.
When filmmaker Sofia Olins went there in the early 2000s she was instantly taken with its charms. “It gave that feeling of being a child, like, ‘what have I stumbled upon?’”, Olins tells me, just before her film’s premiere at this year’s Sheffield Doc/Fest.
Made up of footage she took in the years since, the film is ostensibly about Roy Gurvitz, Lost Vagueness’s founder. A traveller, he began working at Glastonbury in 1986, first as a crew member, then a bar manager. His desire to create Lost Vagueness was triggered by abuse he and some friends received at Glastonbury when they went out one night dressed up in leotards, suits and sparkles – outfits that are positively de rigeur these days. “One of us even got beaten up,” he says. “You would think that would put us off, but it massively encouraged us, because we knew it would invoke something in people, that it would cause a reaction.” So the next year they started a cafe, and ran a tent called Top Turns. “It was awful cabaret, very basic. It involved plying people with a lot of tequila, and once you’ve had enough tequila, then anything is cabaret, isn’t it?”
The film documents a rocky relationship with Michael Eavis, capturing them butting heads spectacularly in a showdown over the positioning of some bars housed in giant aeroplane cockpits. “As far as I’m concerned I’ve never really fallen out with Michael,” Gurvitz says, “It was Melvin Benn who I was having problems with.” Benn was brought in to help the festival professionalise, and crack down on fence-jumpers; his more corporate style chafed with Gurvitz’s traveller mentality. “I wanted Michael to have my back, but I guess he didn’t”. Their relationship broke down, and Gurvitz was “forced to walk away”.
Gurvitz is an argumentative and volatile person in the film, and it’s not difficult to see why he may have been tricky to work with, although age and time away from the festival appears to have mellowed him. “We weren’t there to cause trouble, but we did cause trouble,” he says. Aside from the operational troubles and budget negotiations, Gurvitz’s choice of acts also came into question. “One year a local vicar complained to Michael about Mouse’s performance in the tent at 4am,” Gurvitz recalls with a hearty laugh. The Mouse in question was a performer known for some extreme on-stage acts, such as an enema with dog food to give the illusion of, well, you get it. “So I asked the vicar what he was doing there at 4am. The complaint was withdrawn.” In the film, Mouse talks about what she can and can’t eat when she’s due to perform this act. “Mushy peas are a bit iffy”, apparently.
Despite leaving Glastonbury, Lost Vagueness mania had caught on with UK festivalgoers, and Gurvitz and his team were soon performing at various other events, striking when the iron was hot. “We struck too much, we did too much ironing!” Gurvitz says, “We never said no to anything”. This crazy schedule, along with rising costs and infighting, meant the whole thing soon became untenable, and Lost Vagueness closed down in 2009. “It was never well thought out in terms of a business,” Gurvitz says. “It was a bit like setting sail across the Atlantic in a rowing boat and going ‘we can do this’, and then ending up halfway across and going, ‘where are the bloody oars?’ If I’d have carried on I would be six feet under.”
In its place now is Shangri-La, a multi-area after-hours zone. Like many people involved today, its creative director Kaye Dunnings came from a Lost Vagueness background. She originally ran the Laundretta, a kitsch 1950s style house that doubled up as a hair and nails bar. But while Shangri-La continues to grow more adventurous and politically engaged with every passing year – its 2017 theme is around environmental waste – Lost Vagueness was perhaps too rigid to survive. “They were on the cusp of something enormous,” says Gurvitz’s one-time nemesis Melvin Benn. “It’s sad, really, because what Roy created was extraordinary. If he could have got over that hump of allowing people to be inspired by him, rather than fearing them, then I think he could have gone on to create great things.”
Olins meanwhile feels that something like Lost Vagueness was always going to be of a specific time, something almost destined to implode. “Like any exciting underground movement it burns brightly and then dies brightly,” she says. “Maybe that is an implicit need of any game-changing cultural movement – that it has to have that explosive nature to it.”
Lost in Vagueness is screening at Shangri La at Glastonbury Festival on Friday and Sunday at 3pm. There is a one-off London screening on 13 July, tickets available at lostinvagueness.com
With the queues at Glastonbury 2017 slowly but surely decreasing, it’s time to celebrate yet another summer festival season across the world. You might be spending most of your summer in a field somewhere, or have the usual corner table booked at your favourite jazz cafe. Whatever summer event you’re planning on going to, we’d like to hear about it.
Perhaps you’re going to one of the big music festivals for the first time this year? Or maybe you’re a regular festival goer who is particularly excited about seeing an act you’ve never seen before? Whether you’re planning on falling in mud or falling in love, share your festival experiences with us. We’ll hopefully feature some of your contributions in a round-up later this summer.
You can share your festival pictures by clicking on the blue ‘Contribute’ button on this article. You can also use the Guardian app and search for ‘GuardianWitness assignments’ – and if you add it to the homepage – you can keep up with all our assignments.
Standing on the banks of the Isle of Dogs like a toy temple washed up from some colourful cartoon, John Outram’s strikingly postmodern storm water pumping station has been grade II* listed, as part of a new wave of listings that recognise an era of wit and fun in architecture.
Built between 1986 and 1988, the pumping station is a playful collage of references: classical Greek temples, riverine mythology and even jet engines, all fused in a uniquely colourful vision. “It’s one of the most exciting buildings of the 1980s,” says Roger Bowdler, Historic England’s director of listing. “Outram exulted in the panache and exuberance of classicism – and gave this utterly functional structure an exterior that is unforgettable.”
The Temple of Storms, as Outram christened the building, was one of three pumping stations commissioned by Ted Hollamby, chief architect of the Docklands Development Corporation. Margaret Thatcher, the then prime minister, had decreed that all buildings above ground in the docklands had to be developed by the private sector, seeing no place for state-commissioned architecture. But there was one exception: utilities.
So, in a pointed rebuke to her policy, Hollamby commissioned three leading architects of the day – Outram, Richard Rogers and Nicholas Grimshaw – to design beautiful temples to water treatment that were as far from utilitarian as possible. “I had been doing a series of classical warehouse sheds, which caught Hollamby’s eye,” recalls Outram, now 83. “When I met the engineers, they had already built a model of the waterworks interior. It looked like a little cathedral, with a nave with two aisles, so I simply threw a shed roof over it. The client rather left us to get on with it, so we had a lot of fun and games.”
The listing describes how the building “can be read as a classical temple or ark rising from a primeval sea or river”. The wavy patterned paving of the surrounding courtyard stands for the water, while the short, fat columns make the building look half-submerged. This playful theme is echoed in the riverside door, which appears to have floated up between its white jambs, while the red paved circles in the ground suggest more columns yet to emerge from the churning waters.
On the front, a great jet engine turbine bulges through the pediment like the eye of a cyclops, a feature the engineers said could be decorative (fixed blades with a smaller working fan behind), but Outram insisted its every part be operational. Similarly, the curling latticework confections that top the columns in a riot of red, yellow, green and blue house ventilation ducts.
Born in Malaysia in 1934, Outram was originally set for a military career. But, dissuaded by national service, he went to study architecture at the Regent Street Polytechnic (now University of Westminster) and the Architectural Association in the 1950s. His plural approach was always at odds with the prevailing orthodoxy of modernism, and he remained a self-styled outsider, his work once described as “architectural terrorism”.
“Modern British architecture has always had a terrible taboo on myth and storytelling,” he says. “But I think buildings should be cultured and have layers of meaning. It’s nice to be able to wander around in them and think about various things. My project has always been to modernise architecture, as found over the last 9,000 years, rather than to produce modern architecture. This has made me an object of interest, because I worry my colleagues.”
Eschewing the variously hi-tech and minimalist habits of his contemporaries, Outram turned to history for inspiration, building up a library of over 2,000 antiquarian books on ancient civilisations. “The oldest architecture I ever visited was the painted caves of 20,000-year old Lascaux,” he says. “Decoration is the origin and essence of architecture. It can mediate, in the theatre of a built room or a built city, the epiphany of a meaning.”
Many of his works have been demolished, but seven remain in the UK, most of which are worthy of listing, from an Egyptian-themed house in Oxfordshire to some handsome warehouses in Slough. His Judge Institute of Management Studies in Cambridge, built in 1995, is a glorious eyeful of polychromatic mouldings, its interior surfaces writhing with classical references and faintly aboriginal patterns. It also exhibits Outram’s trademark techniques of “doodlecrete” (concrete made with rubber moulds) and “blitzcrete” (concrete made with colourful brick aggregate, ground and polished to look like beautiful sticks of nougat).
“I had the idea when I saw builders making concrete using crushed bricks,” he says. “They called it ‘Dutch concrete’, so I rang up the cement association to find out how to make it, and they sent me a booklet on how to build an air-raid shelter out of the ruins of your neighbour’s house. That’s where I got the name blitzcrete.”
Its most elaborate incarnation can be found in the house he built at Wadhurst Park in East Sussex for the Rausings, they of the Tetra Pak fortune, which has been an ongoing project since 1978. Here, Outram concocted an exotic mix using cobalt-blue bricks from the Netherlands. “It was a very difficult project,” he says. “They wanted something modern, but which at the same time looked eternal. They didn’t want anything ‘stylish’.”
The result is a wonderful fantasy that celebrates the last few millennia of architectural history with psychedelic glee. But Outram says his crowning achievement is the vast computational engineering faculty at Rice University in Houston, Texas, a modern basilica, built in 1997, that is drenched with a riotous candy-coloured interior. “It is everything that is criminal and forbidden,” he says. “So of course the public loved it. Meanwhile, tutors at the architecture faculty advised their students against visiting so as not to be corrupted.”
The pumping station listing follows that of two other postmodern icons, No 1 Poultry in the City of London by James Stirling, and Comyn Ching Triangle in Covent Garden, by Terry Farrell. Historic England is currently considering a long-list of 30 other postmodern buildings, with an announcement to be made next year.
“I almost hope it will rain,” says Hans Ulrich Obrist, artistic director of the Serpentine, standing beneath the soaring timber canopy of the gallery’s summer pavilion, which plunges inwards to form a conical funnel where rain will be channelled into a circular waterfall. “It has definitely been designed with British summers in mind.”
The opening of the annual pavilion has been plagued by untimely downpours in previous years, putting optimistic architects from warmer climes to the test, but this year African architect Francis Kéré seems to have brought the scorching heat of Burkina Faso to Kensington Gardens.
“I was inspired by the big tree in my native village of Gando,” says the 52-year-old architect, who established his practice in Berlin in 2005. “The community always gathers in its shade. I wanted to create a place that would encourage people to come together, with spaces where you feel enclosed and protected, or choose to look out to the park.”
The result achieves that rare feat for a piece of contemporary architecture: it looks much better than the computer visualisations. The pavilion has been built with precision and refinement. Like an upturned hat, the 25-metre-diameter roof appears to float above four curving walls made of deep blue-stained wood arranged in a staggered triangular pattern, with gaps providing glimpses through the structure. In some lights, it looks like translucent fabric, in others a massive opaque wall. On the outside, the wood is subtly chamfered, so the walls shimmer in the sunshine like woven silk.
“It’s like the indigo clothes we wear in the village on festive occasions,” says Kéré. “I thought, ‘I’m coming to London, so I must wear my best outfit.’” Dressed in a deep blue suit and white shirt, he blends into the crowd of architects, except for the ring of tribal scars on his face, which mark him out as the son of the village chief – a position of privilege that gave him the chance to attend school in the city, and later win a scholarship to study in Germany.
Since he graduated from the Technical University of Berlin, Kéré has built a reputation for designing sparing structures in Burkina Faso, using mud bricks and lightweight steel frames, often built by unskilled labour with elegant economy. “I have used the same principles here,” he says, “but with the wonders of British engineering, I can do more.” He initially considered using bricks made onsite for the pavilion walls, but was forbidden from turning the royal park into a mud quarry.
The pavilion becomes more rewarding the longer you stay, your eye drawn to subtle details amid the changing patterns of light, such as the kids’ slide like a little volcano, beautifully milled from a mound of plywood. “It’s one of the most deceptively complex pavilions so far,” says Tim Leigh of Stage One, the Yorkshire fabricators who have built the last nine pavilions. “It looked simple, but to make the cantilevered steel structure so fine was a real challenge.”
The spindly wooden spokes of the canopy are fixed at different angles, casting a pulsating pattern of dappled light across the concrete floor. The angled gaps provide glimpses through to the delicate steel trusses that hold the whole thing up, supported on a ring of pylons at the centre, where rainwater will be funnelled down to a patch of gravel and into a 9,000l (2,000 gallon) tank, to be recycled for irrigation.
Standing in this central clearing – open to the sky, surrounded by pylons and the spokes of the great wooden dish shooting outwards – is a momentous feeling, like the village chief might appear at any minute. There will be no tribal ceremonies in Kensington, though this year’s programme is more community focused than ever, and the pavilion will host a weekly lunch organised by Mazí Mas, a social enterprise established for and run by migrant women.
The Radical Kitchen will see the space taken over every Wednesday at 1pm to provide a platform for community groups to share food and “recipes for change, care and survival in the city” – an ambition that has taken on more relevance since the tragedy of Grenfell Tower, just a couple of miles away. Groups hosting lunches include the People’s Fridge, a community organisation in Brixton where people can donate spare food, and the Focus E15 campaign group with Architects for Social Housing, who have been battling estate regeneration across the capital.
Previous pavilions have been variously sold to private collectors and corporate sponsors, and now ornament gardens and vineyards around the world. Sources say billionaire businessman and former New York mayor Michael Bloomberg has shown interest in Kéré’s, but the gallery won’t confirm. “It’s not up to me,” says the architect. “I just hope that it can be useful.”
• At Serpentine Gallery, London, 23 June to 8 October.
No one can accuse Jay-Z of not ploughing his own furrow. At the precise moment when everyone else is starting to wonder if streaming and download exclusives actually do more harm than good, he’s doubling down and making 4:44, his forthcoming album, exclusive on Tidal. A streaming service in which he has a significant stake. Convenient.
Naturally, he wants to support his own service and you can’t really fault him for that. If we are being brutally honest, Tidal needs all the help it can get as it lags miles behind Spotify (50m paying subscribers), Apple Music (27m subscribers) and Deezer (12m “active users”). It last gave out official figures in March 2016, when it said it had 3m subscribers, but the Norwegian business publication Dagens Naeringsliv claimed it was massaging its subscriber numbers and they were under half of what it was claiming.
The rapper’s new album is due for release on 30 June, but there seems to be some uncertainty over just how exclusive this “exclusive” will be. It is being done in partnership with the US mobile company Sprint, which – what serendipity! – acquired a 33% stake in Tidal at the start of this year for an estimated $200m, and seems to be as much about propping up Tidal as it is about a customer land grab by Sprint.
“Jay-Z is a global icon and we’re giving customers an incredible opportunity to be among the first to experience his new album, 4:44,” enthused Marcelo Claure, Sprint president and CEO, in a statement. It’s the use of “among the first” that raises the skepticism levels somewhat. Does that mean it will get a CD and download release? Or will it eventually make its way on to Tidal’s (much, much bigger) rivals? No one’s saying anything for now.
We’ve been here before. Several times. And it’s never worked out brilliantly, as Tidal and Jay-Z have a far-from-glowing track record with exclusives. Back in 2013, Jay-Z gave away 1m downloads of his Magna Carta Holy Grail album to Samsung customers who had a particular handset. Samsung will have paid handsomely for the exclusive, but there was a sense that it was more about giving Jay-Z a huge upfront payment rather than worrying about what would please the fans. Plus, as they were free downloads, they did not count towards the album’s chart position, so, after the sulphuric explosion of the release hype, the promotion in effect became undetectable.
After a consortium led by Jay-Z bought Tidal (previously known as WiMP) in January 2015, it had a star-studded launch where many of the biggest pop acts on the planet pledged to give it exclusive material first. That amounted, initially, to a Madonna video that soon appeared on YouTube. After that came Rihanna’s Anti, in January 2016, which ended up being released early by mistake, then 1m copies were given away to appease fans while Tidal blamed Universal Music Group for the error. UMG countered by saying it was actually Tidal’s fault. The album eventually ended up on other streaming services.
The release of Kanye West’s The Life Of Pablo did no better. Despite West’s assurances that it would never be on Apple, a matter of a few weeks after its Tidal debut it was available on … Apple. And Spotify. And everywhere else. To paraphrase Oscar Wilde, to lose one exclusive may be regarded as a misfortune; to lose two or more looks like carelessness.
That said, Beyoncé’s Lemonade remains a streaming exclusive on Tidal over a year after its release. But the knock-on effect was to send fans to pirate sites as well as CD retailers and iTunes to spend their money there rather than taking the carrot and joining Tidal. The fact that Lemonade, according to IFPI numbers, sold 2.5m copies globally last year to become the biggest album in the world would suggest that it was downloads and CDs that accounted for the bulk of that. The “album equivalent streams” of Lemonade on Tidal will have barely touched the sides here.
Universal, smarting from the Frank Ocean debacle last August – in which Apple Music got an exclusive for the contract-fulfilling album Endless and then, the next day, Ocean put out Blonde himself – reportedly imposed an embargo on exclusives. Warner Music Group and most indie labels were always against them. That leaves Sony, which has hinted exclusives will be considered on a case-by-case basis, the unspoken subtext being they have fallen in line with all the other labels.
There will be the occasional outlier, such as the totally autonomous Chance the Rapper’s two-week exclusive with Apple Music for his album Coloring Book in May 2016, for which he claims he was paid $500,000; but everyone else is increasingly of the belief that exclusives dangerously impede the reach of an album and, as such, only annoy fans at a time where loyalty can no longer be presumed and has to be earned again with every new release.
Jay-Z has an allegiance to his own service and one of its biggest investors, hence this Tidal–Sprint deal; but it feels like a message beamed in from a different place and a different time. In an age of digital ubiquity, exclusives are an anachronistic bet on a roulette wheel where the only pockets are marked as either “invisibility” or “irrelevance”.
‘Ready to play? What’s the day?”
“P L A Y, play-a-way-way, play away, play play away-way, play away, play away!”
“Pugh, Pugh, Barney McGrew, Cuthbert, Dibble, Grubb.”
Brian Cant, the honey-voiced, marmalade-haired man who provided most of the televisual highlights of any childhood between the mid-60s and early-80s, has died at the age of 83.
He took us through the round, square and arched windows of Play School for 21 of its 24-year run. He narrated the adventures of Pugh, Pugh, Barney et al in Trumpton, and of Windy Miller and the other animated villagers in the rest of puppeteer Gordon Murray’s Trumptonshire trilogy – Camberwick Green and Chigley. And he sang, danced and told jokes and stories with enthusiasm and skill for an audience that was ready to graduate from the sedate environs of Play School and play a little further away in – well, Play Away. Later, they would have Bric-a-Brac too.
He acted in films and took part in many theatrical productions, too, but it is for his on-screen work for children that he will be best and most fondly remembered. He had the gift of being able to talk to, rather than at or down to, children and treated his young audience with respect; however beautifully light his touch was as a presenter or narrator, he took the roles absolutely seriously. There was no cynicism creeping in at the edges, no irony glimmering behind his eyes. He was there, wholly, for his young viewers, who loved him for it. When I interviewed him in 2010, just after he had been awarded a special prize at the children’s Baftas in recognition of his talent and work, he was exactly as you would hope and expect – kind, modest, funny, gracious. And the voice, as he recalled his career in children’s television with nothing but generosity and delight, was the same as it ever was – rich, warm, instantly engaging.
There were two rounds of auditions for Play School. “The first time,” he said, “I had a chat with Joy Whitby [the programme’s creator] and she kicked a box out from under the table and said: ‘Get in that.’ So I got in, and she said: ‘Now, row out to sea.’ So I did and I did a bit of fishing and I caught a boot full of custard.” “He became Mr Play School,” said Whitby in an interview 45 years after he landed the boot, and the job. Humpty, Cant told me, had been his favourite toy. “I seemed to find myself having conversations with him in the middle of takes.” No wonder we loved him.
In 2010, I asked if he still got recognised. “Oh yes!” he said delightedly. “And a lot of fan mail still comes. My loyal followers!”
One of them, the singer Alison Moyet, perhaps summed him up best. She tweeted after the news of his death broke, “Goodbye, Brian Cant. You were a happy place.” He was. Many thanks.
“HERE’S a house. Here’s a door. Windows – one, two, three, four ... Ready to play? What’s the day? It’s Tuesday.” For those of us who were British, small and watching television between the mid 1960s and the mid 80s, those words, spoken by the much-loved children’s TV presenter Brian Cant, who has died aged 83, in his soothing, gently laconic baritone, are liable to provoke a Proustian rush.
For two decades from 1964 there was scarcely a BBC show aimed at little children that didn’t come with Cant’s distinctive tones. It was his voice that weekly introduced us in the late 60s to the townsfolk of Camberwick Green (1966), the puppet show created by Gordon Murray. “Here is a box, a musical box, wound up and ready to play,” he would tell us at the start of each episode. “But this box can hide a secret inside. Can you guess what is in it today?” And it was Cant who did the prosodically captivating roll call for the fire brigade in Camberwick Green’s sequel, Trumpton (1969): “Pugh, Pugh, Barney McGrew, Cuthbert, Dibble, Grubb.”
Both shows, and the third of the trilogy, Chigley (1970), were set in an idealised English county, Trumptonshire, and suggested what we realised with hindsight to be the evident nonsense that a crime-free Britain ran like clockwork and that adult life was an orderly affair. Cant’s voice was the aural signature of these affairs. In 2007 he topped a children’s magazine poll to find the best-loved UK kids’ television voice, with Oliver Postgate, the voice of Bagpuss, second, and David Jason third for voicing the cartoon hero Danger Mouse.
Sensibly, Cant was modest about his effect on grown-ups nostalgically recalling their childhoods. “It’s obviously very kind and very rewarding to have that effect but I can’t believe it was that important to everyone,” he said once.
Cant might not have achieved such iconic status except for his ability to improvise with imaginary custard. In 1964 he was performing in a proto-Horrible Histories BBC TV drama about the Romans when he learned that auditions were taking place for a new show aimed at pre-schoolers. Joy Whitby’s Play School (1964-88) was aimed at taking kids’ TV to a new level, beyond such cherished favourites as Andy Pandy, The Flower Pot Men and Muffin the Mule.
At the audition Whitby asked Cant to climb into a cardboard box and row out to sea. He gamely did so, then dropped an imaginary fishing line in the water and, seconds later, hauled in his catch, a wellington boot filled with custard. How did he convince the audition there was custard in the wellie? Through the power of suggestion, most likely.
Cant remained on Play School for 21 years, long after its original target audience had moved not only on to solid foods, but into gainful employment. Some critics might be tempted to suggest that he and the other presenters – Floella Benjamin, Derek Griffiths and Johnny Ball among them – were overshadowed by the stuffed toys (Big Ted, Little Ted, Jemima, Humpty and Hamble), but that would be unfair: to sing, tell stories and otherwise captivate an audience composed mostly of under-fives is no mean feat, as any parent will tell you.
“One of the main rules of those Play School days was that we should play to the camera as though we were talking to one child,” said Cant in 2010. “It could be somebody in a tower block, a nice semi-detached somewhere, or a royal palace. You had to phrase everything so that, whoever was watching it, they felt you were talking to them.”
In 1971 Cant became, along with Toni Arthur, one of the regular presenters of Play Away (1971-84), aimed at slightly older children. Other presenters included, incredibly, Jeremy Irons, Julie Covington, Patricia Hodge and Tony Robinson. In his subsequent career he combined his work presenting children’s TV in shows such as Bric-A-Brac (1980-82) and Milkshake! (from 1997) with theatre, touring in plays such as Run for Your Wife, Doctor in the House, The Railway Children and The Canterbury Tales, in addition to pantomimes.
In 1984 Play Away was cancelled, and his services were no longer required on Play School. “All my regular programmes disappeared in one fell swoop,” he recalled. “Play Away had really run its course, but I was, rather unfortunately, considered too old for Play School.” That year, his first marriage to Mary Gibson having ended in divorce, he married the writer and director Cherry Britton and they went on to have three children.
Born in Ipswich and educated at Northgate grammar school for boys, Cant initially had dreams of playing football for Ipswich Town, having trained for the club as a youth. Instead, after some years working as a printer, he turned to acting, and an early review of his performance in an amateur production of the thriller Safe Harbour in 1957 judged that “Mr Cant does incredibly well within the terms of an almost embarrassingly inept caricature.” The following year he turned professional and spent the summer season in rep at Buxton, in Derbyshire. By the early 60s he was appearing in dramas such as the ITV police series No Hiding Place, before joining Play School.
Later Cant appeared on TV in more grown-up fare, including Casualty, Doctors, and Doctor Who. He had two roles in the last of these and was twice killed off, first by a Dalek and in another episode by a Quark, which he recalled was “a little polystyrene box-shaped creature that contained a schoolboy. I was from a pacifist planet and I had to wear a long skirt with a long pipe stuck up it which came to just below the neckline. When I was killed off, smoke belched out of this pipe for some reason. It was rather odd.”
But he carried on entertaining children. Younger Britons remember him not for Play School or the Trumptonshire dramas but as Brian the farmer in Dappledown Farm (1990–2003) and for his work from 2003 on two Channel Five kids’ shows, MechaNick and The Softies.
In one interview he defended the idea of children’s TV against the idea that it could be stupefying for kids. “No-one would suggest sitting there doing nothing but watching television, that’s obvious,” he said. “But programmes like Play School were always done with the idea that when it finished, the children could go away and try things themselves.”
In 1999 he was diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease, but as late as 2011, after having been awarded a special Bafta honouring his career, he was still acting – making his third appearance in Doctors.
He is survived by Cherry and their children, Rose, Christabel and Peter, and by two sons from his first marriage, Nicholas and Richard, the latter of whom is also an actor.
• Brian Cant, television presenter and actor, born 12 July 1933; died 19 June 2017
Even the gentle references to sexuality in Fereshteh Ahmadi’s short story Harry Is Always Lost meant it was hit by the censors. The female protagonist is late catching a flight. In a frantic taxi journey to the airport, she is with a man, but it is not clear if they are dating or are husband and wife.
On the plane, she sits next to a strange man, who starts a conversation and ends up giving her a lift when they land in Tehran. This stranger drives so fast that the wind blows her scarf away, leaving her struggling to cover her head until they manage to buy a new one.
The story was initially in Ahmadi’s 2013 collection, Heatstroke, but censors at Iran’s ministry of culture and Islamic guidance, who vet all books before publication, asked her to remove it.
“They wanted the man and the woman in the story to be husband and wife or at least be engaged,” says the Tehran-based writer, while visiting the UK for the first time on the invitation of the International Agatha Christie festival in Torquay.
“They also had issues with the woman. They said she went too far with the guy on the plane – why was she travelling so easily independently? Why was she having a relaxed encounter with the second man? Her self-confidence made them uneasy.”
But that was under hardliner president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Now the story is in print thanks to a little more leeway in censorship under newly re-elected president Hassan Rouhani.
Ahmadi’s work as a writer is particularly striking because she comes from a country where conservative attitudes towards women are prevalent. It is obligatory for women in Iran to wear the hijab, and in court their testimony is worth only half that of a man. Judges, as a rule, favour men over women in divorce cases.
Despite such discriminatory laws, Iranian women are incredibly active, taking up more places at universities than men and having a strong presence in civil society – although a number of leading women’s rights activist are languishing in jail.
Iran has a number of female vice-presidents and one female ambassador. Rouhani is expected to nominate a number of female ministers.
Ahmadi’s success is testament to female writers thriving in Iran’s literary scene.
Ahmadi, who has been a judge in a number of Iranian literary prizes, was born in the southern city of Kerman in 1972. She studied architecture at Tehran University and worked as an architect for some years before dedicating herself to writing. Her first collection of short stories, Everybody’s Sara, was published in 2004 and she has written two novels: The Forgetful Angel and The Cheese Jungle.
“The eight years under Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was a real catastrophe,” she says. “A lot of books did not get permission for being printed, a lot of books had permission but they were blocked from being reprinted. In the past four years under Rouhani a lot of books managed to get permission, get printed, for many writers they finally succeeded to publish their work.”
Ahmadi joined other prominent Iranian writers in signing a letter of conditional support for Rouhani, who was re-elected in a landslide victory last month.
The letter called for more freedoms. “We’re in a situation better than [the] past, better than those eight years, but we want it to get better.”
Ahmadi, who also works as an editor with two publishing houses, said she has noticed the political difference in her own job. “I see with my own eyes how many books get permission,” she says. “Now, at least you can go and haggle, you can talk to the censors, you can make changes, you can ask for a review.”
Like all Iranians, she practises a degree of self-censorship. Ahmadi says Iranian writers have mastered how to use metaphors and symbolism to get around restrictions. In a story featured in her collection Domestic Monsters, published last year, a group of men go up the hill to eat and drink, but there’s no mention of alcohol. Until someone throws up, a clue that strong drink was involved.
“We talk about something, but we mean something else. We’ve learned how to do this and our audience also gets it, the audience gets the clues,” she says.
“In the past two decades, women writers are doing something different in contrast with an older generation of female writers who were still following male traditions. A woman wrote stories but the stories are about someone else. The protagonist is a wife of that person, or the daughter of that father, the main focus is on that man and the woman is still in the shadows. That has changed in the new generation of Iranian female writers. Now they’re looking for their own voice, an independent voice.
“In the recent generation, good or bad, women writers are talking about their own issues. They’ve created an issue and they should resolve it themselves. It’s not an issue about their husband or a male character.”
She remembers an Iranian magazine journalist asking her about something she would like to do that she hasn’t done before. “I said I wanted to go for a stroll in Tehran in the middle of the night. For a man that is a strange wish, because he can do this. Not for a woman. I’ve never done it before – I really want to do it. I want to walk in the streets of Tehran at night at 1am, 2am to see who is still awake, how it feels, what’s happening in the city.”
Ahmadi is critical of how the outside world views Iran. “The world focuses on extremes in Iran, but people in Iran want to portray their inner stories, they want to talk about themselves, where I am in all of this,” she says. “When we want to know deeply about other people, we go and read their stories, watch their cinema but all these years, there has only been a focus on bold issues in Iran. That’s why people, their identity, their connections and their private lives that have similarities to lives in other parts of the world [are] forgotten in the middle of this. I think many of our writers are doing just that. They’re writing about themselves, they’re looking into their own identities.”
For Iranian female writers, so much of the outside world, and of their innermost lives, remains something that cannot be explored.
With no new blockbusters released into UK cinemas at the weekend, and scorching temperatures across most of Britain, it’s no surprise that box office plunged. The market fell 53% from the previous session, delivering the worst weekend of the last year for ticket revenue. Takings are 62% below the average for the previous 52 weekends. In fact, they are the worst since October 2013, when the top new release was the Julian Assange biopic The Fifth Estate, a flop.
Given the lack of powerful new challengers, Wonder Woman was able to hold on to the top spot for its third session. Its takings declined 46%, the second gentlest decline in the UK Top 10, behind Guardians of the Galaxy Vol 2’s fall of 41%. Only three films in 2017 have managed to spend three weeks at No 1: The Lego Batman Movie, Beauty and the Beast and now Wonder Woman. Having reached £16.3m, it has a decent shot at becoming the 10th release this year to crack £20m at the UK box office.
Among new releases, two mainstream indie titles faced off against each other in a bid to segment the market. Churchill, depicting the British wartime leader’s trepidation over the D-day landings in 1944, had a defined audience of older, wealthier viewers, and opened with a so-so £393,000 from 345 cinemas, including modest previews of £10,000. The site average was £1,138.
Gifted, which stars Chris Evans as a man battling his mother (Lindsay Duncan) for custody of his young niece, a maths prodigy – was targeted at women aged 25 to 45, but struggled to define itself as a must-see film. The result: a fairly weak debut of £305,000 (including previews of £54,000) from 323 cinemas. Site average was £945. My Cousin Rachel is another title that straddles the indie and multiplex sectors, and whose audience appeal overlapped with both of these films. The Daphne du Maurier adaptation dropped by 58% from its opening session and stands at £1.56m.
Whitney: Can I Be Me lands in the official comScore Top 10 with an opening of £94,000 from 60 cinemas, yielding a decent £1,564 average. Sadly, the real story of the Nick Broomfield co-directed documentary is not as impressive. The total is boosted by previews of £55,000, including £45,000 from the previous Sunday’s live premiere, beamed into 137 cinemas from the Sheffield Doc/Fest and including a Q&A with Broomfield and a musical performance by The Voice finalist and former Houston backing vocalist Michelle John.
Glorious sunshine didn’t reach all corners of the UK at the weekend – the west coast of Scotland, for example, had mostly dull weather. It is notable that the top two cinemas for Gifted were in Scotland, as were two of the top three venues for My Cousin Rachel. Glasgow Film Theatre was one of the better-performing indie venues at the weekend, achieving at least 100 admissions for as many as six titles.
Cinemas are crying out for salvation, and it should come – to multiplexes, at least – this Thursday with Transformers: The Last Knight. That said, this is the fifth Transformers film, and it remains to be seen how excited cinemagoers will be for yet another helping. Older audiences are being targeted by the romcom Hampstead, starring Diane Keaton and Brendan Gleeson. If you liked the one about the lady in the van, the theory goes, how about the man in the shack?
1. Wonder Woman, £1,868,607 from 624 sites. Total: £16,297,127 (three weeks)2. The Mummy, £1,175,952 from 581 sites. Total: £6,110,834 (two weeks)3. Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales, £737,391 from 537 sites. Total: £17,389,506 (four weeks)4. Baywatch, £514,301 from 485 sites. Total: £8,073,582 (three weeks)5. Churchill, £392,732 from 345 sites (new)6. Gifted, £305,323 from 323 sites (new)7. My Cousin Rachel, £273,345 from 501 sites. Total: £ 1,563,091 (two weeks)8. Diary of a Wimpy Kid: The Long Haul, £202,629 from 530 sites. Total: £5,115,684 (four weeks)9. Guardians of the Galaxy Vol 2, £181,499 from 320 sites. Total: £40,432,519 (eight weeks)10. Whitney: Can I Be Me, £93,867 from 60 sites (new)
Super Singh, £54,595 from 21 sitesCardboard Gangsters, £41,744 from 44 sitesFireman Sam: Alien Alert, £24,193 from 245 sitesRock Dog, £13,351 from 93 sitesSlack Bay, £7,682 from 15 sitesStockholm, My Love, £5,655 from 10 sitesDestination Unknown, £2,095 from two sitesNails, £1,145 from six sites
Now that I’ve reached the end of A Confederacy of Dunces, I have to admit to some confusion. Not with the book so much as some of the things I’ve read about it. I’ve already discussed editor Robert Gottlieb’s famous complaint that John Kennedy Toole’s novel doesn’t have “a reason”. Plenty of other reviewers have also said that Ignatius J Reilly’s lack of development is a problem – but I don’t get it.
With forceful eloquence, Jonathan Rosenbaum was one of the first critics to put forward this idea in the Soho News when the book was first published in 1980. A Confederacy of Dunces, he said, was a “reactionary satire” and:
The heroes and victims of reactionary satire are usually the same people. They live according to an improbable cosmic law that declares human personality to be an unalterable given, incapable of undergoing any development or improvement. Following this narrow philosophy – a familiar form of Southern comfort – one quickly arrives at the conclusion that one’s character, idiosyncratic warts and all, is as inescapable as one’s skeleton.
As you’ve probably guessed, Rosenbaum doesn’t think that reactionary satire is a good thing:
All of Toole’s preposterous characters seem mired in this condition – to the profit of nothing but the author’s despairing, affectionate scorn and slapstick.
I’d recommend reading Rosenbaum’s entire review, which is as interesting as it is provocative – but for now, I want to focus on the idea that having a fixed personality is a problem. Why do some critics demand that novels must feature change? Is a reader left dissatisfied and undernourished if a character makes it through a book epiphany-free? Do people in the real world always change and grow?
This is not to criticise change and development as literary devices. My A-level essay on Jane Austen’s Emma would have been pretty damn lean if she hadn’t had some crucial changes of heart. The revelations and alterations in Proust are so impressive that they sometimes made me feel that I, too, would never be the same again. And I love watching Dickens’s characters learn and grow.
But that’s not all I want from a book. While there’s much to appreciate in the character development of Dicken’s hero in David Copperfield, its greatest joy has to be Betsey Trotwood and her unalterable ability to crash a scene. Meanwhile, when PG Wodehouse married off his great character Psmith at the end of Leave It to Psmith, this meant that he couldn’t find any more adventures for him. He never made the same mistake again; Bertie Wooster didn’t change in a good half-century or so. But are we to think less of Wooster than Psmith, or any other character that doesn’t fit this arbitrary demand?
It’s tempting to take a cue from Ignatius and suggest that those who demand change should be “lashed” until they “drop”. But would Ignatius condone such punishment? Maybe such violence would be approved by the Ignatius at the start of the novel, a man who writes contemptuous notes about Myrna Minkoff. But what about Ignatius at the end, after he has taken Myrna’s advice and gone out into the world to be subjected to its delights and punishments? Is he really the same person as the confident troll who begins and ends arguments just by asking: “Please define your terms”?
Ignatius may well contend that he is still the same; his bluster and high-flown rhetoric consistent throughout. But by the end of the book, isn’t he at least cowed? He seems genuinely frightened that he might face prison for forgery or be taken away by “hirsute brutes” from the hospital. Hasn’t he learned important lessons? I’d suggest that Toole shows Ignatius refusing to change while also subtly undergoing fundamental revisions to his life and outlook.
Ignatius isn’t alone in his development; his mother veers from fretful indulgence of her grotesque child to a determination to stop him ruining her life; Mr Levy becomes more involved in the day-to-day of running his trouser company and begins to stand up to his caustic wife. While I don’t think any novel should be criticised for a perceived lack of character development, I also don’t think the charge should be applied to A Confederacy of Dunces at all. Like Ignatius, my “brain begins to reel from … literary labours”. Maybe I should take his advice and go make myself a nice cheese dip. Who says he has nothing to teach us?
It has been 16 years since the guitarist and producer Justin Adams released his last solo album, but he can hardly be accused of slacking. A member of Robert Plant’s current band, he has revealed his fascination with Arab and African cultures in an extensive series of collaborations with artists ranging from Juldeh Camara to Seun Kuti, while exploring African-Celtic fusion with Sharon Shannon. Now he uses those global influences in an original set of ambient experimental pieces, matching carefully layered and textured guitar work against vocal effects from Anneli Drecker, from the Norwegian Arctic. These are not songs but atmospheric, often hypnotic mood pieces. The throbbing, doomy guitar work on the opening Lightshaft sounds all the more eerie thanks to Drecker’s throat singing, and is followed by excursions into African desert blues, now given a mysterious, unworldly edge. It is a strange but compelling set.
Metamorphosen can make me seasick in the wrong hands. Written by an 85-year-old Richard Strauss in the months after the second world war, the relentless, swell and tug of the grief-thick harmonies need players who see past the next wave and steer through half an hour of stormy waters. And it really is up to every single player – Strauss wrote 23 solo string parts rather than clumping instruments together, and that makes the skill and judgment of the young Aldeburgh Strings, led by Markus Daunert, doubly impressive. Their sound is lithe and rich, their trajectory isn’t thrown off course by every squall and they coalesce into broad, gutsy gestures when they want to. It’s a sophisticated performance. Strauss’s late wind ensemble pieces get similarly intelligent treatment from Aldeburgh Winds under oboist Nicholas Daniel: charismatic individual voices, sturdy group textures and much thought and care shaping every phrase.
English music has been in decline for the best part of two-and-a-half decades, say Phoenix. That is a frank provocation from a French band who have spent 18 years artfully melting into the background. Especially given that we are sitting in a Nashville theatre steeped in country and honky-tonk music heritage, where neither Phoenix or the failure of British pop make obvious sense. But, “I have this theory,” says guitarist Laurent Brancowitz. “It happened just before Oasis and Blur, or it was the Radiohead thing; or it could be a combination of the two? But it just destroyed decades of greatness.” Exceptional outliers have come and gone through the sludge of bands that have dominated and limped on since, he adds, “but as a cultural movement that lasted since the early 60s at least …” There is a pause for a very Gallic oosh: “It’s been brutal stuff.”
Phoenix grew up on My Bloody Valentine and the Jesus and Mary Chain, Serge Gainsbourg and Prince. Heady doses of British shoegaze and pervy sex filtered through in fits and starts on each of their last five albums, but have been whipped into frothy potency on Ti Amo. It’s their sixth and easily most optimistic record, underscored with love, hope and hedonism. The band’s obsession with subverting Californian soft rock still stands, as does the Parisian electro of which they were originators, but now it comes with flourishes of Italo-disco and FM pop.
“There was a moment when we wondered what was wrong with us,” says frontman Thomas Mars. “We were writing these carefree, joyful songs and the climate in Paris was the total opposite. It felt really strange and disconnected.” Work on Ti Amo began in the spring of 2014 in a converted opera house in the 3rd arrondissement; they clocked in from 10am to 6pm every weekday for the next two-and-a-half years. Mars would fly in from New York, where he lives, for about 10 days every month, until they wrapped it last Christmas. In that time, the city suffered three major terror attacks and France became a bellwether for debate on immigration, race, religion and national identity.
“It’s not escapism or denial,” insists Mars. “It was there all the time so I’m sure it’s in the music somewhere. When it comes to politics ... being in a band, being artsy, living in big cities, our opinions are pretty predictable. You know where we stand, we don’t have anything unique to bring to that table.” The political tension might have seeped in, but really Ti Amo is prime Phoenix: the soundtrack to what you might imagine Hockney’s pool parties to be like; the teenage abandon of John Hughes-ian summers; the mood of every Sofia Coppola film (literally – Mars married the film-maker in 2011 and Phoenix have featured on every Coppola film from Lost in Translation to The Beguiled.)
“It’s a weird contrast,” says Brancowitz. “But I think it’s a universal rule that when you’re in a world full of tension, the thing you create goes the opposite way.” France’s argument around Islam, for instance, elicits some very French exhaling. “The idea of the purity of French identity is just an illusion; it’s fantasy, it’s never existed, to believe in it is very stupid.” Brancowitz pauses: “I only feel a bit ashamed of saying it because it’s so obvious.”
We know a lot of people feeling crushed by the establishment and the extreme crazy people
The band were stuck in an airport waiting for a flight from Miami to LA when the French election results started coming in. Were they ever worried that Marine Le Pen would win?
“We were worried because we could feel there was a moment where the tables were turning,” says Mars.
“It’s a weird thing when the moral compass …” Brancowitz mimes a nosedive: “So the thing that’s supposed to be a bad look for candidates suddenly, in an alternate universe of moral values, becomes a plus.” The discussion moves obliquely around Trump. “For some people it’s a sign of being a cool outsider and it’s the same everywhere in the world. We know a lot of people feeling crushed by the establishment and the extreme crazy people. This is where our reasonable people are, crushed between the two.”
How do they explain the world to their children? Mars has two daughters, Romy and Cosima; bassist Deck D’arcy has a two-year old.
“The weird new feeling is a feeling of shame,” says Christian Mazzalai, guitarist and puppyish baby brother to Brancowitz. “It started with migrants, and you feel the helplessness and embarrassment for humanity, for all the things that happened, the fear.” Mazzalai was in the studio when the Bataclan was attacked in November 2015; he had to stay the night as the city went into lockdown.
The four invested in a studio supercomputer for Ti Amo; everything was recorded, filed and labelled, and put under Mazzalai’s stewardship. “I’m the master of the archive,” he laughs. “We recorded 5,000 pieces of music and it was all in colourful directions,” he says. “It was unpredictable because it was hard times in Paris and what we were doing felt like a selfish process, but it was healing.”
They’re nervous about the album and how the tour will pan out. “It looks simple but it adds up to a big headache and we can’t blame anyone but ourselves because we control everything,” says D’Arcy. A giant kaleidoscope stage mirror that has to assemble, mount and come down in minutes at festivals is one worry. Their portable merch vending machine that “we probably won’t make any money from” is another.
In England, you have these venues where, as soon as you arrive, there is beer everywhere. They want you to get wasted
There has always been resistance to Phoenix in the UK, an unwarranted tendency to mark them down as twee or boring because they’re clever and down-to-earth and nice. And they are nice to everyone: the lady from the coach company managing their tour bus. The guy from YouTube. The executive from Spotify. The journalist from the Guardian, haranguing them at 2am post-show as to whether they want to be as big as, say, Nashville’s Kings of Leon. (“When we first started, maybe,” says Mars, “but look what happened to them.”)
“Rock stars are usually very stupid,” says Brancowitz before the show (sold out, with the setlist only written and decided 30 minutes before they went on stage). “Noel Gallagher is not a cliche rock star because he’s clever.” It’s safe to say Phoenix have never gone in for rock stardom of the dumb, drunk, lads-on-tour kind. Lairy obnoxiousness doesn’t sit well with them. “In England, you have these Academy venues where, as soon as you arrive, there is beer everywhere,” says Mars. “They want you to get wasted. Beyond the fact that it’s not even in our interests, it’s so corporate.”
What’s their idea of fun? “I really respect the magic of fermented wheat,” deadpans Brancowitz. “We have our own kind of hedonism, it’s different, probably more weird.”
On paper, they’re probably too cerebral for their own good. How, for example, to explain their 15-minute digression into Descarte’s theory of existence or the role of the artist to create space of freedom in people’s minds?
When Phoenix first arrived with their album United in 2000, they were lauded by style mag the Face and decreed a shambles by pretty much everyone else. “We got zero stars!” says Mars, of their early reviews, “which is much better than five or even 10 because it means you’re really disturbing someone.” D’arcy recalls one interview describing their music as chemotherapy. Which, at least, I suppose, is healing.
United was great, though: a bizarre mashup of genres from four schoolmates who grew up together in Versailles and, between them, are friends and onetime bandmates with Air and Daft Punk. Phoenix have never really got the credit they have deserved for the quiet impact they’ve had on the pop landscape. They have a tendency to release a buzzy album, follow it with something a bit stranger, get better, come back and go off-beam again. They are consistent only in the sense that their sound is still so signature.
It was their fourth album – Wolfgang Amadeus Phoenix – that gave them a breakthrough and won them a Grammy and Coachella headliner status and made them the most blogged-about band of 2009. A classroom video of schoolkids singing Lizstomania went viral, magazine covers and US talkshow slots followed and suddenly it seemed that Phoenix had made it. “That fame lasts a day! If you’re on TV, you’ll be famous for a day in the street,” says Mars.
“Yes, I would say it was pretty manageable, we can still go buy bread in the boulangerie,” says Brancowitz, only mildly taking the piss. To have kept on that trajectory, Ti Amo is the album critics would have expected them to come up with next. Instead, Phoenix decided to test the goodwill invested in Wolfgang with Bankrupt! (2013), a harder, cynical commentary on moving from cult to commercial success. “Every one of our albums is a reaction to the last one,” says D’Arcy. “It’s the love of novelty ... I guess it’s childish.” Still, it got them an audience with one of their heroes, R Kelly, and the band had him on stage when they headlined Coachella in 2013. “Trapped in the Closet is a masterpiece. He’s a genius.” Problematic, though. “For sure, he pushed the boundaries of what’s acceptable and sometimes went too far,” says Brancowitz. “But he has so many ideas in one song, some artists don’t have one idea – he has thousands. He talks about music and it’s like a tap comes on. For us, it would be like a year of work to just pick up what the sound of what he does in …” Brancowitz flips his hand. “He works constantly.”
The fans in Nashville later on are enthusiastic but restricted: there is no dancing in the aisles, and staff at the seated auditorium are searching everyone. “It would never be like this in Europe,” says D’arcy, “but then there are more weapons floating around here than there are birds.” Their performance, however, is undimmed; Phoenix are a band at the peak of their powers.
In rock and pop, supergroups often feel like outings of overgrown, silly-haired schoolboys. Folk ones are different, because the coming-together of the generations is in the music’s very blood. This is the idea that pulses and jigs behind the debut album by Usher’s Island, a gathering of Irish musicians from veteran bands such as Planxty and the Bothy Band, and younger musicians Mike McGoldrick and John Doyle, spring chickens in their 40s. Recorded in a County Galway cottage over three days, the mood throughout is old-fashioned, simple and unpretentious. Those wanting wild experiment will go wanting, but the playing is moving and warm, particularly on Bothy Band update Five Drunken Landlady’s and Sean Keane’s. The songs sung by Andy Irvine – now 75, but with a voice decades younger – also cut through, especially on Irish standard Molly Ban. As he sings of its dead subject, shining “Like a fountain in the sun”, the sky blazes.
Miles Davis was, famously, a fan of the pianist Ahmad Jamal, inviting his own pianists – such as Red Garland and Bill Evans – to replicate Jamal’s spacious, hesitant, quietly modernist style. Now aged 87, Jamal is still on top form, his terse, space-filled improvisations punctuated by the trance-like ostinato bass lines of James Cammack and the clattering polyrhythms of drummer Herlin Riley and percussionist Manolo Badrena. This album features three very different versions of Jamal’s title track: the first a modal instrumental punctuated by meditative arpeggios; the second featuring declamatory poetry by rapper Abd Al Malik; the third a dazzling, coruscating ballad featuring singer Mina Agossi. Elsewhere, there’s plenty of puckish wit: a jerky, Afro Cuban version of Autumn Leaves is interspersed with glancing references to other standards (including chunks of Oliver Nelson’s Stolen Moments), while the groove-based Baalbeck sounds like an acoustic take on the Temptations’ Papa Was a Rolling Stone. At once frisky, funny and funky as hell.

“My heart is a black lump of coal,” writes Syrian poet Ali Safar. “My heart is a full stop on a page.” This is an excerpt, translated by Anne-Marie McManus, from Safar’s A Black Cloud in a Leaden White Sky, or Death by Stabs of Sorrow, which describes personal responses to the Syrian war and provides the text of Jonathan Dove’s In Damascus. The beauty of the piece, for tenor and string quartet, is its restraint. It doesn’t sensationalise, get maudlin, moralise or politicise. The words are direct and the music respects that. The performance does, too: clear, focused playing from the Sacconi Quartet and lucid, unswerving narrative from tenor Mark Padmore. The rest of the disc is lighter but always with that trademark Dove economy: the Sacconis sound relaxed and bubbly in the 2001 quartet Out of Time and pianist Charles Owen joins for the Piano Quintet, intense and light-filled.
Late-night hosts discussed the contents of James Comey’s pre-written remarks, released Wednesday afternoon, before his testimony at a Senate hearing on Thursday.
The seven-page letter details his conversations with Donald Trump, while lending credence to the notion that Trump, on multiple occasions, attempted to get Comey to shut down the FBI’s counter-intelligence investigation into potential Trump campaign dealings with Russia.
“The entire political world is awaiting the former FBI director James Comey’s testimony tomorrow,” Seth Meyers began. “But today, his opening statement was published, and it provides some damning new information about Comey’s interactions with the president.”
Meyers said: “First of all, just the sheer number of conversations Comey had with Trump is itself weird. He says that he had a total on nine one-on-one conversation with Trump. To put that in perspective, he’s only talked to Eric Trump five times ever.”
Meyers went on to discuss Comey’s account of his dinner with the president, in which the latter apparently asked for a pledge of loyalty, to which Comey replied he would give him “honesty”.
“Even in conversations Trump is a terrible deal-maker,” Meyers joked, impersonating the back-and-forth between Comey and the president. “I need loyalty. You can have honesty. Honest loyalty? Sure.”
Stephen Colbert of The Late Show was also anticipating Comey’s testimony. “Man, there’s so much to talk about tonight I’m going to do two monologues,” he joked. “It’s the most magical night of the year because it’s Comey Testimony Eve.
“People are calling Comey’s testimony Washington’s Super Bowl. And today, we got the pre-splosion. Because at Comey’s insistence, the Senate published his pre-written opening remarks this afternoon.”
“Comey described a dinner he had with Trump after the inauguration,” said Colbert, referring to the section of Comey’s remarks that summarized his dinner with the president on January 27. “When he was invited, Comey assumed other people would be attending, of course, but when he showed up it turned out to be just the two of them seated at a small oval table.
“Oh, come on,” Colbert quipped. “That’s the oldest trick in the book. You invite your FBI director over for a movie saying it’s going to be a group thing, just the two of you. Can’t make Netflix work, so you know, you obstruct justice.”
Samantha Bee and Trevor Noah focused on some of the other controversies weighing on the Trump administration, including the president’s response to last week’s terrorist attacks in London and allegations that money from Eric Trump’s charity were channelled into his father’s businesses.
“After this weekend’s terrorist attack in London,” Bee began, “our president responded on Twitter. Unfortunately, this time, he didn’t fall asleep mid-covfefe.”
She continued: “What is wrong with you? Were you just fulfilling your annual Ramadan tradition of hurling insults at grief-stricken Muslims named Khan? I wouldn’t be surprised if the UK asked to take a break from our special relationship and start seeing other countries.”
Trevor Noah began his segment making reference to Comey’s forthcoming testimony, adding, “on top of all of that, his [Trump’s] third favorite son, Eric, is in hot water of his own.
“Forbes Magazine published an article exposing where some of the money that Eric Trump raised for charity was actually going,” Noah said, before airing news reels detailing the Forbes report, which alleged, among others things, that the “Donald J Trump Foundation … used the Eric Trump Foundation to funnel $100,000 in donations into revenue for the Trump Organization.”
“Wow,” Noah said. “So, when I first read that story I thought, this guy’s such a dirtbag. But thats not entirely fair, honestly, because Eric Trump did raise millions of dollars for the St Jude children’s hospital. In fact, they even put his name on the hospital wing. Not a picture, just his name, all right? Those poor kids have been through enough.
“And this brings us to how Eric went from using his incredible privilege to help the less fortunate to being the guy skimming from charities. And it turns out he fell in with a bad crowd,” Noah explained, referring, of course, to Eric’s father, who reportedly forced his son’s charity to pay the Trump Organization for the usage of golf courses.
“That is heartless, and also the theme of Trump’s new healthcare plan,” Noah joked. “So, I guess at the end of the day we’re starting to understand that this is the curse of being one of Donald Trump’s children. You can try and be good, but he’ll be like, ‘no, no, no, don’t do that. You’re a Trump.’”
What is it? A six-hour fictionalised 20th-century schlock-fest set in a non-fictional Berlin hotel.
Why you’ll love it: If you’re a connoisseur of American TV movies featuring plucky young heroines in period dress chasing their destiny, but have little need of grit and accuracy, this is the German drama for you.
Do you miss Downton Abbey’s breakneck pace when tackling bygone important events? Do you want to feel the wind in your hair as 20th century European history whips past you like a speeding removal van? Step this way and meet Sonja Schadt, a 93-year-old woman, speaking from 1997, with a story to tell.
The Hotel Adlon is real but Sonja is made up, so reality can’t even excuse the ludicrous plot twists and coincidences that go on here. We begin in 1904 with a young girl giving birth after an ill-advised romance with one of the servants. Old Sonja pops up now and again to fill in gaps in the story. SO many gaps.
Baby Sonja is passed off as her mother’s sister to save a scandal and, for one reason or another, ends up living in an apartment at the titular hotel as a young woman, once her family have all died or left for pastures new. The three feature-length episodes tackle a chunk of the century from 1904 to 1997 with a fair bit of time-hopping and skimming required, not to mention some questionable aging make-up, to get us to the present day in time for the big finish.
Sonja, in ignorance of her beginnings, settles into her privileged life while her sister/mother runs away to America to be a lesbian. Meanwhile, Herr Adlon Sr, Sonja’s godfather, begins construction of his grand hotel in the city, declaring his intention to build the best hotel in the world, etc. You’ve seen Mr Selfridge. “You won’t just spend the night at the Adlon. The Adlon will be an experience,” he says, gesturing at a large white model of his luxury dream palace.
Gentlemen sit in smoke-filled drawing rooms, one hand in their waistcoats, discussing industry while the women negotiate their way around the social restrictions of the day. “We have had the vote for seven years,” says one of them in the way no one ever would. Even allowing for translation, the subtitles betray a script that has been designed to get the plot across as directly as possible, no digressions. We’ve two world wars to get through. Never mind social unrest, universal suffrage and the arrival of short jazz bobs for all. It’s only lucky that the sinking of the Titanic wasn’t a big story in Germany or we would really be in trouble. Basically, someone saw Downton Abbey, got themselves a multimillion euro budget and, two years later, this popped out.
The visual motif – the show’s Iron Throne – is the most incredibly ugly bronze and marble fountain depicting a herd of elephants who all appear to be trying to run away from it. It remains in the lobby through the decades as some kind of symbol, perhaps of the owner’s colonial past. And it is the scene of many a meet-cute, all of which are made of purest emmental so heavily do they rely on someone dropping something and then both parties diving to retrieve the something before locking eyes. It really is the most derivative nonsense despite sterling efforts of some of the cast, particularly Josefine Preuß as Sonja (from the ages of 16 to about 60 – even she couldn’t pull off early 90s, talcum powder or no).
The middle episode knocks the jazz era into a cocked hat, ending with the Reichstag on fire and very bad things happening elsewhere as the Nazi’s tighten their grip on Germany and all-pervading gloom sets in. The final episode is the second world war, calling at the Nazi trials and terminating back at the hotel where it all began.
A lot of the social eruptions happen outside the window. Actors peer out as the sounds of angry mobs are played in and, occasionally, the editor cuts to grainy news footage of the time. It’s not exactly seamless and feels oddly tinpot for the purported €10m (£8.7m) budget. It’s so excessively American in its tone and look that there doesn’t seem to be a single natural ingredient involved. The whole thing ends like some giant Werther’s commercial and leaves a sticky residue.
Where: Walter Presents on All4
Length: Three two-hour episodes.
Standout episode: The first instalment, focusing on the domestic life of the family and really big chandeliers, is the most bearable. After that the writer tries to tackle fascism, racism and war and they shouldn’t have.
If you liked Hotel Adlon watch: Mr Selfridge (Netflix), Grand Hotel (DVD).
Lest we pretend the UK had any purebred indigenous baroque music, here’s another reminder of how much we owe to Europe and the free movement of musicians. Giovanni Stefano Carbonelli – or John Stephen Carbonell as he later styled himself – was one of umpteen virtuoso violinists imported by Italophile rich Brits in the 18th century. Some went home, others stayed to lead our orchestras and create a distinct Italo-Anglo repertoire. Carbonelli eventually made a name as wine merchant to the royal court, but he was classy enough as a violinist for Vivaldi to write him a personalised concerto (Il Carbonelli) and his own music is stately, taut and elegant in the hands of Bojan Čičić (a UK-based Croatian violinist) and his excellent Illyria Consort. They sound effortlessly stylish in these six chamber sonatas – Čičić makes even the high-wire showy stuff sing with a lyricism that is shapely, aerated and totally unforced.

Pat Metheny, a liner-note contributor to this previously unreleased collection of 1966 airshots featuring freewheeling jazz-guitar colossus Wes Montgomery, calls it “a time capsule from another, wonderful musical world”. Resonance Records have unearthed these gems from two broadcast Seattle club nights with former Miles Davis sidemen Wynton Kelly and Jimmy Cobb on piano and drums, and the vigorous Ron McClure (later to work with Charles Lloyd) on bass. The repertoire is unsurprising for the era – hustling uptempo bop-swingers, sultry ballads, a little Latin sashaying. But the improv inventiveness of Montgomery and Kelly (a terrific partnership best known from the iconic 60s albums Smokin’ at the Half Note and Full House) is consistently awesome. Montgomery uncorks tumbling single lines and sweeping chord-melody passages on the staccato Jingles, sounds almost as clangily funky as Chuck Berry on Blues in F, and quiveringly vibraphone-like on What’s New? Radio timing results in fade-outs just as a couple of tracks are getting going, but for Wes buffs, this music is an enticing find.
Ed Victor, agent to the great and the good of the literary and political worlds on both sides of the Atlantic, has died at the age of 77, his agency has announced.
New York-born Victor was one of publishing’s most colourful and well-connected figures, with a client list that ranged from showbusiness stars such as Eric Clapton, Lily Cole and Roman Polanski to political heavyweights like David Cameron and David Blunkett. One of his most recent high-profile deals was the sale of Cameron’s autobiography to William Collins last autumn.
His death was announced in a statement by Ed Victor Ltd, which said he had died of a heart attack late in the evening on 7 June at the London Clinic after a long battle with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia.
But even before the official statement came through, Twitter was buzzing with the dismay of his many friends and clients.
Historian Simon Schama tweeted: “Ed Victor funny, stylish, gossipy, very very shrewd – those striped suits and the eyes of mischief; one of the greats of agenting.”
Booker-winning novelist John Banville told the Guardian: “Ed Victor was one of the great figures of what we used quaintly to call ‘the literary scene’. He delighted in books and in their authors, was never less than affirmative and most often joyously celebratory in his responses to both. He cheered me up – ‘John, this is Ed calling. I have some terrific news for you’ – and could make even a publisher’s rejection sound a positive development. He also had a store of the very best jokes. Oh, dear, how I miss him.”
Victor was the son of Russian-Jewish immigrant parents who ran a photographic equipment store in the Bronx. He arrived in the UK in 1961 after winning a scholarship to Cambridge University, and began his career working on coffee-table books at Weidenfeld and Nicolson.
After a failed attempt to launch a newspaper, The Ink, with Felix Dennis and Richard Neville, founders of the counter-cultural magazine Oz, he moved back to New York to work for the American publisher Knopf. He set up his own agency in 1976 in London, where he made his home for most of the year, returning every summer to Long Island, where he and his second wife, lawyer Carol Ryan, had built a house from the beams of two 17th-century English barns. His Independence Day parties there each July were an essential part of the literary social calendar.
In 2001, he decided to try out the life of an author for himself, shedding 40lbs in the service of a book, The Obvious Diet: Your Personal Way to Lose Weight Fast – Without Changing Your Lifestyle, which boasted “ideas, tips and plenty of recipes from Ed’s celebrity friends”.
Determined not to let his increasing frailty interfere with chances to have fun, he celebrated 40 years in the business last autumn with a star-studded party in London’s Knightbridge at which Andrew Marr and Nigella Lawson gave tributes.
“The thing about Ed is he commands respect and he commands respect because he’s very straightforward and he’s cleverer than everyone else – he doesn’t force that on people, but he lets it be known,” said Lawson, whose father, Nigel, and brother, Dominic, are also part of the Victor “family”. One of her cookery books, Nigella’s Christmas, included a recipe in his honour, Ed’s Victorious Turkey Hash.
“Ed was a one-off,” said the statement from his colleagues, “the toughest yet most professional of agents, who would always get the very best deal for his clients. An inveterate party-goer, he often attended three events in an evening. He will be a huge loss to the publishing industry and the wider world, and we miss him dearly.”
The Naxos cycle of Villa-Lobos symphonies is becoming a protracted affair. This is the fifth instalment of a series that Isaac Karabtchevsky and the São Paulo Symphony began five years ago. The First and Second symphonies are still to be recorded; the Fifth has been lost. The Eighth, Ninth and 11th were all composed in the 1950s, the decade that ended with Villa-Lobos’s death, and all were introduced by orchestras in the US – the Philadelphia gave the premieres of the Ninth in 1952 and the delayed first performance of the Eighth three years later, and the Boston Symphony commissioned the 11th, also in 1955.
Unlike the ambitious, choral 10th Symphony, which is the odd work out in this late sequence, Symphonies 8, 9 and 11 are all compact, well-behaved pieces, fundamentally neoclassical. There’s none of the wild unruliness that makes the best of Villa-Lobos’s music so attractive. But though there are hints of Stravinsky and even Roussel in some of the writing, there’s never anything derivative about it. Villa-Lobos always remain himself, whatever style he adopts or musical material he makes use of.
The striking themes and rock-climax drama of the late Esbjörn Svensson’s EST, and the tone-poetry of Tord Gustavsen pass through the soundworld of the Finnish pianist and composer Alexi Tuomarila, whose trio are currently touring this sophisticated music. Tuomarila is big in Europe now, and his balance of stomping anthem magnetism and teeming improv fluency, matched by the virtuosity of Norwegian bassist Mats Eilertsen and Finnish percussionist Olavi Louhivuori, explain why. The EST connection is audible in the hooky piano-bass unison melody and drums-driven crescendo of the opener here, and the minimalist in Tuomarila creatively bends the phrasing and timing of a repeating ostinato on Eilertsen’s ghostly Rytter, with the bassist’s eerie bowed sounds prowling beneath. The Girl in a Stetson Hat is gospelly, and embroidered in enthralling detail by Louhivuori, The Times They Are A-Changin’ (the only cover) is lightly stated over quietly chattery percussion and a gently rocking vamp, Tuomarila’s Aalto is a contemporary soul-jazz classic. Kingdom makes a fine successor to 2013’s Seven Hills.
Naomi Alderman writes novels and video games, teaches, makes radio programmes about science, art, fantasy and culture for the BBC. “I don’t watch a lot of Ready Steady Cook,” she deadpans.
This morning, she has been editing the second half of the latest season of Zombies, Run!, her bestselling mobile fitness and adventure game, on the train. Now, she has been whisked off to a supposedly quiet room in London’s Royal Festival Hall to talk to me about The Power, the novel that has just won the Baileys prize for women’s fiction, worth £30,000 and a considerable boost to sales.
But our surroundings are anything but quiet. Alderman’s mother, father, boyfriend and assorted family friends sit at a table filled with champagne flutes and cakes, at one point it is noted that the author is on the BBC website home page. She is next to Theresa May. “I’m a little bit famous,” she giggles. Well-wishers, including novelist Ali Smith and musician and writer Tracey Thorn, pop by to add their congratulations.
The Power is 42-year-old Alderman’s fourth novel, and comes a decade after her much-praised debut, Disobedience, the story of a young woman who returns from New York to the orthodox Jewish north London of her youth. Two further novels followed: The Lessons, about a group of students at Oxford, and The Liars’ Gospel, a retelling of the story of Jesus from different perspectives. Each book is strikingly different – “I like to move things on,” she says – and The Power is another departure. A work of science fiction featuring four protagonists, it imagines a world in which women have physical dominance over men via their ability to electrocute them at will, and where institutional, social, political and personal power reverses.
It is a bold – and even enticing – proposition, told with panache and commitment. What did she want to achieve? “One of the things that I’ve been really thrilled by in the reception of the book is how many people want to talk about it,” she replies, “and that is what I really hoped. I don’t have the answers to the problems of gender but hopefully I have some interesting questions.”
In her Baileys acceptance speech, Alderman declared that “my life would be more possible with the women’s movement existing and no running water than the other way around … And I suppose one of the things the book is about is that the support and the power of other women has been more vital to me than electricity.” She also implored the audience to go and see Wonder Woman, throughout which, she says, she wept.
As we talk about contemporary feminism, she remembers that, “certainly in the 90s, when I was a young woman, that was quite an arid time in conversation about women’s lives. It felt like people were saying: ‘All the gains have been made, everything has been done, it’s all finished.’ People are not saying that any more.” She points to Donald Trump’s victory over Hillary Clinton as having “slapped a lot of people awake”; and she credits the internet with giving women a way to record the multiple aggressions and infringements to their freedom.
But she is also optimistic, taking hope from the fact that it was a male parliament who voted to admit women’s suffrage, and she describes the women’s movement as “the most successful revolution of the 20th and 21st centuries. It has been a bloodless revolution, we haven’t had to fight any wars to achieve what has been achieved, and we’ve done it by conversation, we’ve done it by discourse, by writing, by thinking.”
There were days working on The Power when I felt I could punch a hole through reality and turn it inside out
She confesses to not understanding “the monomania” of feminists, whose work she otherwise respects, about transgender people, but also returns to her belief in conversation. “I come from the orthodox Jewish tradition, which is a tradition of vigorous debate. Vigorous debate is not a problem. The problem is when vigorous debate turns into shouting and physical violence.”
Alderman no longer holds orthodox beliefs, though her parents do, and she says, brought her up to argue back strongly. What she sees in the “beautiful, empowering” Jewish tradition of disputatiousness, even to the point of debating with God, is an idea that extends to her work, the co-creation of the world through discussion.
“Here is a weird thing about me,” she says. “I find it more easy to imagine what I would be like if I were to wake up tomorrow morning and be a man, than to imagine waking up tomorrow morning and not being a Jew. What would that be? Because that is woven into the way I think about the world and the way in which I believe very strongly in the power of discourse.” Key, she explains, to the business of writing novels or video games, is the ability to trust your readers or players to come along for the ride with you, and to bring their own creativity and interpretations.
The Power started life as a proposal that Alderman submitted to the novelist Margaret Atwood, after she was selected to be Atwood’s protege on a mentoring programme. She knew, she says now, that it would be a “perfect” book to discuss with Atwood, whose resurging novel, The Handmaid’s Tale, was immensely important to her when she was growing up.
Like The Handmaid’s Tale, The Power will be coming to UK television screens, produced by Sister Pictures, one of whose chief architects is Jane Featherstone, responsible for shows such as Spooks and Broadchurch.
Alderman is, indeed, a little bit famous. But, she insists, what’s most important to her is “to be in good faith with my work, and feel that it is accomplishing things that I believe in in the world”. If that sounds, as she worries, a little portentous and self-important, it’s also clear that she is keen on having fun; you probably don’t get to write award-winning games (Perplex City) or Doctor Who tie-ins (Borrowed Time) without having a well-developed sense of enjoyment. Next up is a new novel, although she is only 20,000 words in, and it’s yet to fully reveal itself. And before that, there will no doubt be a lot of talking about men, women and electrocution. Did she feel, when she was writing The Power, that it would have such an impact?
“When you’re in the thickets, when you’re in the middle of the jungle hacking away with a machete, no book ever feels like, ‘Oh, I bet I’ll win a prize for this one,’” she answers. “But there were days certainly when I was working on this book that I felt like I could punch a hole through reality and turn it inside out.”
• Naomi Alderman’s The Power is published by Penguin.
Bluets is a meditation on love and grief; an exploration of loss; a reverie of blue; a syncopated arrangement of 240 prose poems – at least bookshops often file it under “poetry”. Maggie Nelson calls them “propositions”, evoking pre-Socratic philosophical fragments or the Remarks on Colour jotted down by Wittgenstein in the months before he died. The propositions that compose Bluets were collected across three years of slowly dwindling sadness, from 2003 to 2006, as Nelson recovered from a heartbreak while caring for a close friend rendered quadriplegic. She knows her own sufferings and those of her friend are incommensurable: “Is it a related form of aggrandisement, to inflate a heartbreak into a sort of allegory?” she asks. But her friend “has never held any hierarchy of grief, either before her accident or after, which seems to me nothing less than a form of enlightenment”. Bluets was first published in 2009 in the US but, with the success of The Argonauts, her similarly unclassifiable bestseller of 2015, it’s now thankfully being released in the UK.
The propositions pose questions, then answer them in analogies and parables – an antiphonal, rhythmic reflection on art, literature and emotion. Nelson describes how collecting objects and images of blue distracted her from the worst passivity of her years of depression; the book was her “way of making my life feel ‘in progress’ rather than a sleeve of ash falling off a lit cigarette”. She wonders if she has become a kind of bowerbird, decorating her nest with blue mementos and encounters with others similarly obsessed: “I have met a man who is the primary grower of organic indigo in the world, and another who sings Joni Mitchell’s ‘Blue’ in heartbreaking drag, and another with the face of a derelict whose eyes literally leaked blue.”
The fragments are arranged neither chronologically nor thematically, but according to a poetic, bittersweet logic of their own. Nelson says she has shuffled them around “countless times”, implying an intention to make them flow like Heraclitus’s famous river – the one that you can’t step in twice – which is apt, because no matter how many times I step into this book I emerge changed by it, with new insights and appreciations. She says the words were first written in blue ink, as a reminder (with Keats) that all words are written in water. “I could have written half of these propositions drunk or high, for instance, and half sober,” she says; “I could have written half in agonised tears, and half in a state of clinical detachment.”
That proposition, number 184, alludes to a dilemma in what might be called a therapeutics of grief: when should a sadness be suppressed or drugged into “clinical detachment” with medication, and when should it be lived wholly, unflinchingly, for what its pain might teach? As a GP, I’ve had this unanswerable debate with my patients and with psychotherapists – a physician’s duty to ease anguish can lead to a hurried prescription for drugs, which may conflict with a therapist’s duty to explore the meanings and antecedents of a depression, no matter how painful. Nelson quotes Ralph Waldo Emerson – “I grieve that grief can teach me nothing” – but feels that she has learned from her pain, while continuing to be a student of pleasure and of love. “Mostly I have felt myself becoming a servant of sadness,” she adds. “I am still looking for beauty in that.”
A couple of propositions describe conversations with therapists, and imply that Nelson found little solace there: “Clinical psychology forces everything we call love into the pathological or the delusional or the biologically explicable, that if what I was feeling wasn’t love then I am forced to admit that I don’t know what love is, or, more simply, that I loved a bad man.” Bright blue antidepressant pills aren’t much benefit either, leaving her to explore other intoxicants: alcohol, beauty, poetry and sex.
Proposition 181 reads: “Pharmakon means drug but as Jacques Derrida and others have pointed out, the word in Greek famously refuses to designate whether poison or cure. It holds both in the bowl.” This is a timeless idea: that anything powerful enough to be therapeutic will be poisonous in excess. Snake venom was the original pharmakon; “In the Phaedrus, the written word is also notoriously called pharmakon,” Nelson writes, recalling the letters both opened and unopened between her and her former lover. “Plato does not call fucking pharmakon, but then again, while he talks plenty about love, Plato does not say much about fucking.”
Nelson doesn’t want to say too much about her ex-lover, the “prince of blue” who floats insubstantially through these pages (“How often I’ve imagined the bubble of body and breath you and I made, even though by now I can hardly remember what you look like”). But she makes it clear that the sex they had together was one of the two “sweetest sensations I knew on this earth” (the other was her love of the colour blue). Even as she articulates that desire she regrets her candour, quoting Goethe’s agonies over publishing The Sorrows of Young Werther, and Sei Shōnagon’s over The Pillow Book: “Clearly I am not a private person,” she writes, “and quite possibly I am a fool.”
But that candour, also evident in The Argonauts, gives Bluets a turbo-charged vitality, precision and authenticity that frees her to reflect on the way female desire is too often sidelined or ignored. It also allows her to make broadside, startling connections, for example between the voyeurism of Catherine Millet’s “beautiful sex memoir”, the Scottish saint Triduana, who tore her eyes out with a thorn, and the mingling of her own sexuality with spirituality: “In this dream an angel came and said: You must spend more time thinking about the divine, and less time imagining unbuttoning the prince of blue’s pants at the Chelsea Hotel. But what if the prince of blue’s unbuttoned pants are the divine, I pleaded. So be it, she said, and left me to sob with my face against the blue slate floor.”
There are similarities between Bluets and Wittgenstein’s Remarks on Colour; it’s similarly urgent, epigrammatic, fragmentary and illuminating (“… uncertainty extends to the very roots of the problem. We must always be prepared to learn something totally new.”). Along the way Nelson acknowledges her debt to Christian and Buddhist theology, to Isabelle Eberhardt’s The Oblivion Seekers, to John Berger, Leonard Cohen, Emerson and Marguerite Duras among many others. The bluets (“cornflowers”) of the title refers to the painting by Joan Mitchell, “dedicated chromophile and drunk”, who “would have preferred to live perpetually in ‘l’heure de bleu’”.
But Nelson doesn’t want to live perpetually in blue; her grief is not bottomless: “It would help to be told that there is no bottom, save, as they say, wherever and whenever you stop digging.” Her grief begins to lose its colour, and the mountain of collected blues becomes just a “pile of thin blue gels scattered on the stage long after the show has come and gone”. In her dark excavation of grief, she has collected messages of great wisdom and powerful beauty. “Love is not consolation,” she says, citing Simone Weil. “It is light.”
Gavin Francis is the author of Adventures in Human Being.
• Bluets is published by Jonathan Cape. To order a copy for £9.34 (RRP £10.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
Like many film critics, I started out to be a mortician, but got sidetracked. Yet vestiges of that childhood vocation linger on in my lifelong fascination with autopsies, particularly postmortems involving epic film failures.
In this context, I have thought a lot about King Arthur: Legend of the Sword, a colossal bomb. There are many things wrong with the film – the story, the directing, the fact that the screenwriter forgot to include Merlin – but the biggest problem is the casting. A few months before the film was released, I started noticing posters advertising a star I didn’t immediately recognise. Somebody named Charlie Hunnam. “Do you know him?” I asked my son.
“He’s the guy from Sons of Anarchy,” he replied.
Well, precisely. He’s not Matt Damon. He’s not Brad Pitt. He’s not James Franco. He’s certainly not Denzel Washington or Jamie Foxx. He’s the guy from Sons of Anarchy, a reasonably popular cable TV show most people have never heard of, much less seen. He’s the guy most famous for almost being in 50 Shades of Grey.
Hunnam reportedly talked his way into the starring role in King Arthur, convincing Guy Ritchie that he could carry the ball. He could not carry the ball, as we now know. Ritchie should have written Lady Guinevere into the screenplay and asked if Gal Gadot was available. One of the most annoying things about King Arthur was Hunnam’s thoroughly predictable turn as a cheeky working-class lad. That worked well in Ritchie’s early movies because cheeky East End lads were in vogue at the time, and Ritchie had rising star Jason Statham on the payroll. Statham brought an affable roguishness to rollicking gangster movies, a quality he has never entirely lost; he was the glue that held the whole thing together. In King Arthur, Ritchie didn’t have anyone to hold the whole thing together. He had the guy from Sons of Anarchy. So the cheeky medieval prole schtick fell flat.
Hunnam is by no means a dud – he is quite good in the art house film The Lost City of Z – and he may yet avoid the fate of Jason Momoa, the large but ultimately ineffective tent pole around which the abysmal 2011 Conan the Barbarian was erected. Yet the similarities are startling: an actor best known for appearing on a popular cable TV show (Game of Thrones) gets into the ring with the big boys. And promptly gets his head handed to him.
Hunnam is a tad on the generic, nondescript side, especially compared to King Arthur’s nemesis, played by the emphatically non-generic Jude Law, who upstages the putative star of the movie at every turn. Bear in mind that the basic structure of motion pictures has not changed in 100 years: a man has a problem, be it shark, alien life form, loan shark or fascist pig, and he has to solve this problem in less than two hours. If the audience is not interested in the man or the problem, the movie tanks. This is also true of films starring women.
In King Arthur, Law’s problem – Oh, will no one rid me of this cheeky prole? – is more interesting than Hunnam’s problem because Law is more interesting than Hunnam. When the two share the screen, our eyes naturally travel to Law because our eyes aren’t stupid.
Hunnam comes off as a poor man’s Tom Hardy. But here is an intriguing issue. Hardy, remarkable actor that he is, is not an instantly recognisable star like Tom Cruise or Vin Diesel or Sylvester Stallone or the Rock. He has never got top billing in the kind of career-defining film that absolutely everybody on the planet saw: Top Gun, Thelma and Louise, Forrest Gump, The Matrix, Rocky, The Hunger Games. So, is Hardy himself a movie star? Well, if the criterion for being a movie star is the ability to light up the screen as soon as you show up, then there is no question that Hardy is bona fide. But this is different from being a matinee idol or a living legend or an icon or Jennifer Lawrence or any of those other words used to describe our celluloid heroes. Hardy, who has made quite a name for himself by vanishing into assorted roles, has a Zelig-like quality. He’s here. He’s there. He’s everywhere. He can do anything, play anybody: a dimwit New York bartender, a Russian copper, a cruel, atavistic London gangster. Make that two cruel, atavistic London gangsters.
Hardy has an amazing CV. He was brilliant in The Revenant. He was brilliant in Locke, where he spends the entire 85 minutes talking on a car phone. He was brilliant in Bronson, a tour de force about Britain’s most violent jailbird. He was brilliant in Child 44, Inception and Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy. He was brilliant in good films, brilliant in bad films.
But does that make him a movie star? I’m not so sure. A movie star isn’t somebody film lovers rave about. They aren’t even somebody the general public raves about. They are somebody the ordinary person can pick out of a police lineup. Can you do that with Guy Pearce? Ciaran Hinds? Hugo Weaving? Outstanding actors, all. But movie stars? Hmm. In a way, it all comes down to the vaunted Thespian Brothers Conundrum. Owen Wilson? Movie star. Luke Wilson? Not a movie star. Alec Baldwin? Movie star. Anybody else named Baldwin? Not a movie star.
Let’s just leave the Quaids and the Afflecks out of this.
Here is the problem in a nutshell. Every time I talk to someone about how much I enjoy watching Hardy and how much I look forward to his next film, I have to remind people who he is. C’mon, guys, work with me. Tom Hardy. You know, the bad guy in The Revenant? Didn’t see it. OK then, the bad guy in The Dark Knight Rises? Oh yeah, him. But didn’t he have a mask on the whole time? OK, the guy who played Mad Max the last time around? Oh, yeah, him. The guy with the mask on his face half the movie. But mostly I remember Charlize Theron. And the rest of the girls.
OK, I continue, my hackles up because in my view not worshipping in the Church of Hardy is like refusing to genuflect in the Cathedral of Daniel Day-Lewis, did you see The Drop? No. Lawless? No. This Means War? No. How about the film where Hardy plays the Kray brothers so convincingly you cannot believe it is the same actor playing both Ronnie and Reg? Sorry, didn’t see it.
I don’t have to do this kind of stuff with Jude Law, Mark Wahlberg, George Clooney. I don’t have to do it with Viggo Mortensen or Colin Farrell. I don’t even have to do it with John C Reilly. I certainly don’t have to do it with Meryl Streep, Anne Hathaway or Angelina Jolie. So even though Hardy is a better actor than most of them, and in certain instances a much better actor, I never have to pull out my iPhone to remind people who they are. Hardy, like Mark Strong, falls into that category of actors that are simultaneously famous yet hard to describe from memory. Fans of these guys routinely imagine they are bigger stars than they are. They are like rock critics who want Alejandro Escovedo and Son Volt to be more revered than U2. But reality is reality, and reality bites. If you put Tom Hardy on the cover of People magazine, the public would say, “Wait a minute. Where’s Johnny Depp?”
There’s a term for people like this. They are all gods, but they are gods of a lesser order. They are the Working Famous.
Charlie Hunnam should be so lucky.
A small stone barn nestled in the Cumbrian hills revered as a pioneering piece of modernist art is under threat from property developers, after arts institutions including Arts Council England refused to save it.
Merz Barn is the unfinished work of artist Kurt Schwitters, who fled Nazi Germany after his work was deemed degenerate and made his home in Langdale in the Lake District.
Schwitters used the barn as a studio in the 1940s and turned it into an experimental dada-inspired artwork. He covered the walls in a collage of materials, from glass to found objects and sculptures, but died of pneumonia three months into the project, in January 1948.
The building is considered an important piece of national heritage, and artists and architects including Damien Hirst, Antony Gormley, Bridget Riley and the late Zaha Hadid have made financial donations towards its upkeep.
In 2011, Arts Council England withdrew funding for the maintenance and restoration of the barn, meaning that the Littoral Arts Trust – comprising Celia Larner, 80, and Ian Hunter, 70, who look after the property – have had to use their savings, pensions and even the sale of one of their houses to keep it going.
Last month, Arts Council England rejected an application for £75,000 of funding for Merz Barn for the fifth consecutive time. Hunter has also offered to hand the building to the Tate and the Museum of Modern Art in New York for free but both declined.
He said the Littoral Arts Trust had enough resources to look after the barn for only another three or four months.
“We’ve already had two developers approach us in the last six months about buying the land, offering us £300,000 cash,” Hunter said. “We’ve sold one of our houses to put into Merz Barn. We’ve used up our savings and our pensions are negligible, so our backs are against the wall here. We can probably hang on for another three or four months and then our hands will be forced.
“We’ve turned both of the developer offers down as they wouldn’t offer us any protections for the barn, and we would prefer not to sell it on the open market. But we don’t think we can hold off for much longer.”
The historical and artistic importance of the modest building has been outlined by art critics such as Melvyn Bragg, who described it as “an outstanding contribution to the understanding of contemporary art” not only in the UK, but across the world.
While the barn’s elaborate swirling wall of art was moved to Hatton Gallery in Newcastle in the late 60s, the dark stone studio remains a powerful and emotive spot central to Schwitters’ legacy in the UK.
In 2011, when the Royal Academy of Arts held a major British sculpture exhibition, it erected a Cumbrian slate replica of the barn in the gallery’s courtyard. And while opening a conference about Schwitters’ legacy, at Tate Britain in 2014, then culture minister Ed Vaizey said: “Kurt Schwitters’ extraordinary Merz Barn and artistic legacy in rural Cumbria are our responsibility – in the north and also nationally.”
Local MP and current Liberal Democrat leader Tim Farron also gave his backing to the maintenance of barn in 2014. He said: “I cannot overstate how important a site the Merz Barn is and what a boost for the Cumbrian economy if some sort of art museum or similar could be accommodated there.”
Since Arts Council England withdrew funding, several artists have tried to plug the funding gap. Hirst has contributed £150,000; Hadid’s gallery gave £25,000 last year after the barn was damaged by floods during Storm Desmond.
Arts Council England, which stressed that it did not usually publicly discuss the reasons for grant allocations, said: “Grants for the arts is a highly competitive programme … as Littoral has mentioned it publicly, we can confirm that it was unsuccessful with this application due to competition for funds.”
In 2014, Arts Council England gave a £38,000 grant for Littoral Arts to compile a report into the future of Merz Barn and possibilities for its restoration. The report found that it was “potentially a major international success story for the UK, Cumbria and Arts Council England … there is likely to be increasing visitor demand for the preservation and interpretation of this artist’s work”.
It also warned that “stabilisation and restoration work at the site are urgently needed” to ensure its survival and to protect Schwitters’ legacy.
However, in a statement to the Guardian, Arts Council England criticised the report and said it did not “demonstrate a viable business case at that point nor did it cover other potential sources of capital funding beyond the arts council or offer any match-funding strategy”.
It added: “It is worth noting that the council’s role does not include protection and restoration of cultural heritage – this is the responsibility of other bodies.”
In a desperate measure, Larner sold her Lancashire mill cottage for £90,000 last year to help with the Merz Barn’s upkeep, which costs about £45,000 a year.
Hunter said having spent so many years looking after the site, he could not bear to see it go to ruin. He is considering selling his home as a last resort.
“Don’t get me wrong, we love it – but we’re two old people who realistically can’t be here labouring for much longer,” Hunter said. “So what we’ve tried to do is keep it going as best we can because we feel like we have a moral responsibility.”
The pair have also appealed to Nicholas Serota, the former Tate director who took over as head of Arts Council England this year, to rethink the organisation’s decision in light of his pledge to distribute funding across rural communities.
Hunter said he hoped another cultural institution would pledge to look after the barn on behalf of the nation.
Artist Anish Kapoor has expressed concern at the possibility that the barn could be sold to developers and its legacy destroyed. Jann Haworth, who co-created the Beatles’ Sgt Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band album cover with Peter Blake, said: “[The potential loss of the barn] was a terrible reflection of indifference and carelessness for a national treasure … Schwitters’ project in the Lake District can be set as a triumph of what is best about Great Britain: its historic tolerance and welcome,or as a sign of its degradation into small mindedness and bitterness.”
John Boyne’s novel about two nine-year-old boys who form an unlikely friendship across the barbed wire of Auschwitz won mixed reviews when it was published in 2005. Some couldn’t get past the implausibility of little, interned Shmuel meeting unnoticed with Bruno, the son of the camp commandant. But others praised Boyne’s ability to present a naive child’s eye view of Nazi Germany, and to explore the ways in which even the innocent become culpable in times of collective evil.
The film version met with a similar response. But the issue dogging Daniel de Andrade’s ballet is how to replicate the novel’s child-oriented perspective on stage. Bruno and Shmuel are played by adult dancers, and, in the cast I saw, Kevin Poeung and Luke Francis both gave sensitive performances, the former modulating between hyperactive boyishness, uncomprehending misery and sweet hopefulness, the latter hollowed and flayed by the brutality of his captivity.
Yet inevitably they move and look like men, and, because there’s no apparent way for De Andrade to make this a purely child-centred narrative, its gaps and implausibilities remain glaringly evident.
The ballet works best in evoking the conflicted dynamic of Bruno’s family: the tension between his father – a loving man in a despicable job – and his mother, who is trying but failing to ignore the horrors around her.
Bruno’s sister Gretel, danced by Rachel Gillespie with a convincingly grating teenage sense of entitlement, makes a sharp foil to Bruno, who wants only to wish the war away.
Mark Bailey’s clever designs whisk between scenes of domestic “normality” and the bleak industrial nightmare of the camp, while Gary Yershon’s score, a spare and interestingly unplaceable fusion of folk rhythms and atonal atmospherics, serves the action well.
But there are drastic failures of tone: the preposterously jaunty street scene that sees Jews dancing among a crowd of Aryans or the generic death figure who slithers around the stage, his black leather hood, gas mask and net tights more appropriate to an S&M fetish night.
I wish I’d liked this work more. Northern Ballet are working so hard to reinvigorate their stock of narrative ballets, and the company are dancing so well. But The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas feels like a concept that would have better been left on the page.
• At Aylesbury Waterside theatre, 9-10 June. Box office: 0844 871 7607. Then touring.
In July 2014, Hannah Reid was supposed to catch a flight to Australia. She and the other members of chart-topping electropop trio London Grammar were due to headline a festival in New South Wales following a US tour, before heading straight to Japan the next day and then back to the US. “I just didn’t turn up at the airport,” the 27-year-old recalls, matter of factly. We’re in the green room of a radio station in Paris, talking about the band’s rapid, demanding ascent. “Now we look back on it and laugh, but at the time it was bad ...” Reid’s voice trails off.
A year earlier, Reid, drummer Dot Major and guitarist Dan Rothman had released their debut album as London Grammar. Following two hit singles (Strong, Wasting My Young Years) and an appearance on Disclosure’s Help Me Lose My Mind, the album – If You Wait – shot to No 1. It announced the former Nottingham University contemporaries as one of the most exciting new acts in the country, earning them sold-out Brixton Academy shows and an Ivor Novello award. Mixing ambient soundscapes reminiscent of the xx and Portishead with Reid’s unique vocals (two parts Annie Lennox to one part opera diva) and a brand of ennui that was both youthful and beyond its years, they were beloved of fans and critics alike. However, behind the scenes things were manic.
“It was a whirlwind. You’re just holding on for dear life, really,” says Rothman, a chatty, trainer-addicted north Londoner, before recalling the time their tour bus broke down during a 12-hour journey from Toronto to New York to appear on the David Letterman show. A local taxi driver got them to the studio with seconds to spare: “She was like the Wolf in Pulp Fiction – she knew exactly when the traffic lights would change,” he laughs.
Major was the last to learn about Reid’s decision not to go to Australia. She called Rothman, began sobbing and – amid the commotion – the two forgot to tell their drummer. “I was at Leon in the airport and couldn’t get hold of either of them,” Major remembers. “Eventually I spoke to Dan and he was like: ‘Oh shit, no one’s told Dot.’ I said: ‘I’m getting on the plane.’ And he said: ‘You do that and I’m going to fucking kill you. We’ve got stuff to sort out.’”
The crash had been coming for a while, and the band postponed further dates for reasons publicly announced as “illness” and “vocal fatigue”.
“The exhaustion really kicked in for me after a year,” says Reid, a friendly but unshowy frontwoman. Her battle with stage fright has been widely reported, but the effects of success were physical as well as mental. “I spent the second year pretty much just hanging by a thread – I didn’t really know what was wrong with me. Then I just got used to feeling that way and I was like: ‘I must have some kind of illness, I must have chronic fatigue syndrome.’ I got tested for a whole bunch of stuff, it got kind of weird. My liver wasn’t working properly even though I was completely teetotal.”
Rothman nods: “We’d just done a big American tour and I think it all went a bit mental. Dot and I were drinking far too heavily.”
“The thing about touring is that young artists don’t always have much say or control,” Reid says. “You’re quite naive. You say: ‘Yeah, I want to do everything.’ And you want to please everyone. You’re so grateful, but you get sick at some point because everyone does. You have to cancel stuff, and then that has to get rescheduled. It can very quickly go from being manageable to snowballing into the kind of schedule that can end up wrecking your voice. The worst thing about it is disappointing the fans,” she pauses. “We’re going to do things differently this time.”
After rescheduling their missed tour dates and some much-needed rest, the band began work on their second album in early 2015, which they are busy promoting when we meet in France. They stay in the same hotel each time they are in Paris, close to the boho-chic Marais. Major has eaten “everything on the menu, although they’ve just changed the risotto”. Their French following is huge, in part due to the single Hey Now soundtracking a Dior ad. Reid puts it down to the fact that they “love a chanteuse” across the Channel.
First up on their promotion itinerary is a TV interview in the hotel’s courtyard, the trio squashed on to a sofa while boom mics float dangerously close to their heads. Then we pile into a taxi and head over to RTL’s radio studios close to the Champs Elysées, where they’re soundchecking for a programme alongside French singer Camille, with Rothman jokily imitating Reid’s vocals during the soundcheck so she can rest her voice. After that it’s upstairs to sister station RTL 2 for a live set, then back downstairs to record the show – part-performance, part-interview.
It’s easy to see how such a schedule could drive a young group into the ground, but they’re taking a day off for every two they perform. “It will never go away – and I understand that now – but as long as I know that I’ve got that time to kind of recover, then my stage fright isn’t actually as bad,” Reid says. “I think that’s made a huge difference.” Despite their ups and downs, the band are evidently close friends, and place great importance on a group hug before every performance. “I wouldn’t do a gig without one,” Reid says, deadly serious.
Truth Is a Beautiful Thing is a less poppy, more expansive-sounding album than their debut, with Jon Hopkins, Paul Epworth and Greg Kurstin on production duties. Opener Rooting For You is a fresh take on their balladeering that’s both sparse (Reid sings it largely acapella, more so when live) and cinematic, with its swelling melody and choral echoes. “It’s a classic love song,” says Reid. “But it’s also about loneliness within a relationship, and the difficulty of being in a relationship and on the road.” Although she’s not keen to speak about it, she split from her long-term boyfriend between the two albums. Bones Of Ribbon (“take determination, take whatever you need”) was written specifically about the difficulties the band faced. “It’s about coming home from being on the road and suffering from pretty bad exhaustion,” says Reid. “I had this really weird recurring dream where I couldn’t find Dan and Dot in the desert, and the lyrics kind of embodied that.”
On the whole, it’s a record that feels more multi-dimensional, while retaining what made their first so memorable: the lingering sense of melancholy, the complex soundscapes and Reid’s soaring voice. “I think we just had to re-find being a band again,” Reid says. “All three of us had changed a lot as musicians over the years. So we didn’t really sort of speak about it – we just kind of did it”.
While she playfully describes the record as “more of the same”, Reid concedes that it is perhaps “about the very, very last stages of adolescence and turning into a grown man or woman”. Rothman agrees: “It definitely reflects that feeling of not being a kid any more.” There’s still a youthful energy to their songs, though – the same energy, perhaps, that pulled them back from the brink. As the day winds down, Reid makes an early exit from a dinner with label execs to get a good night’s sleep. London Grammar have a plane to catch in the morning – and this time they’ll all be on it.
Truth Is a Beautiful Thing is out on Ministry of Sound.
‘How would you like to be remembered?” a television interviewer asks a young Whitney Houston. She closes her eyes for a moment, then laughs. “You know, it probably doesn’t matter anyway, ’cos they gonna remember me how they want to remember me anyway.”
She was right about that. Nobody has a say in how they are remembered, especially not those who lead public and troubled lives, die tragically early and leave behind a trail of secrets and unanswered questions. Not to mention a sizeable fortune and a bankable back catalogue. As Houston seems to have intuited back then, she was destined to become prime biopic material. Today’s cultural history is increasingly being written by film-makers, and for high-profile subjects such as Houston, there is often a scrum of them competing to do the remembering.
Houston’s interview excerpt appears in Nick Broomfield’s new documentary, Whitney: Can I Be Me, which takes us on the erratic, emotional rollercoaster ride of Houston’s life, through the peaks of pop superstardom and the troughs of drugs, career and family woes, and a destructive bisexual love triangle. The film pieces together her story with frank interviews and archive clips, plus extensive footage from Houston’s 1999 tour – filmed by Rudi Dolezal, who gets a co-directing credit – which captures her incredible talent as a performer and the personal dynamics playing out backstage, particularly between her husband, Bobby Brown, and her assistant Robyn Crawford, who, it is alleged, was Houston’s long-time lesbian lover. “I felt this would be a loving portrait of someone who’d had a very difficult and complicated life,” says Broomfield.
His is not the only Houston bio-doc out there, however. Another esteemed British documentary-maker, Kevin Macdonald, is currently editing his “official” Whitney Houston documentary – made with the blessing and collaboration of Houston’s estate and due for release next year. How the two projects differ will be interesting to see, but the clash highlights a faultline running through this entire terrain: the difference between “authorised” and “unauthorised”. There are advantages to both: the authorised route can open-up access to key figures and materials, the never-before-seen footage and previously unheard tracks. But going unauthorised allows you to bypass the official channels and get behind the facades.
Either extreme of the authorised/unauthorised spectrum can produce ridiculous results. At one end, you find vanity projects such as Ronaldo – a watchably excruciating account of narcissistic footballer Cristiano Ronaldo that makes him look as freakish as his bust at Madeira’s airport. At the other end, you find unashamedly exploitative, “unofficial” biopics such as those the Lifetime network dashes off, often before the corpses have gone cold. Lifetime’s most notorious celebrity embalmings have included Aaliyah, Brittany Murphy and Michael Jackson. And, of course, they have done Whitney (2015’s Whitney Houston: A Tragic Love, directed by Angela Bassett).
As anyone familiar with Broomfield’s work will know, official channels are not his thing. He is something of a documentarian Colombo, deploying a shambolic, exploratory investigatory method that often yields surprising revelations. His 2002 film Kurt & Courtney, for example, aired allegations that Kurt Cobain’s death was not suicide, while 1998’s Biggie and Tupac uncovered new information on the two rappers’ killings, as well as revealing both to be less mythically gangsta than their musical personas suggested.
“I’m not good at being told what I can and can’t put in,” says Broomfield. “That’s completely counter to what I’m doing. It sounds very naive but I always believe there’s a pact between me and the audience, and I’m going to tell them what I really believe. That’s the problem with going through the estate: you have to give them a certain amount of creative control, and that control probably doesn’t agree with your vision.”
Indeed, Dolezal had exactly that experience trying to make his documentary in co-operation with Houston’s estate. According to Broomfield, “There was very strong pressure on him to ignore Robyn Crawford and paint Bobby Brown as the devil.” Instead, Dolezal combined his footage with Broomfield’s.
There are elements of Whitney: Can I Be Me that an officially approved version might well have airbrushed out. Houston’s former bodyguard, for example, contends that he brought her dangerous drug use to the attention of her family, but since they were all on her payroll they did nothing about it – except fire him. Broomfield questions the way the family acted after Houston’s death, auctioning off possessions including her awards and gold records, and filming their own reality show (The Houstons: On Our Own) just eight months after she died. “They behaved in such an opportunistic fashion, I found it hard to work with that.”
If anything, Broomfield’s project benefited from receiving the seal of official disapproval. “I think half the people took part in my film because the estate sent them all emails telling them not to take part in it,” he says. “They thought: ‘Maybe this guy’s going to be saying something that we want to hear, that we can contribute to,’ because people were fiercely loyal to her, and they always thought she had been very misunderstood and the truth has never even vaguely come out.”
One area where Broomfield’s film suffers for being unauthorised, however, could be the music. Without access to Houston’s recorded back catalogue, her work is primarily conveyed by Dolezal’s concert footage, which leads to some omissions – later hits such as It’s Not Right But It’s Okay, for example, which could be seen as Houston’s creative peak. Given that the film takes its title from Houston’s desire to express herself and break out of her manufactured mould, it’s a pity they can’t use the work where she was arguably the most herself.
Macdonald, by contrast, has no such problem. “If you don’t have access to the music, why are you making a film about a musician?” he says. “Can you ever really make something which is definitively about an artist, and tries to understand the artist, if you don’t have the art? To me, authorised, when you’re trying to do these sort of things, is the only way to go.”
Macdonald cannot reveal too much about his film, but he seems to be approaching Houston from the other direction to Broomfield, and putting the music first. “We talk about the negative and all the toxicity, but what about the genius? And what about the social context and the simple question of why somebody so brilliant as she was ended up as she ended up.”
He accepts there is a certain quid pro quo with the estate: “People have an agenda, and I think their agenda’s fairly transparent and fairly harmless and understandable.” But he dismisses suggestions that he is toeing any party line: “I’ve not had on this film any sense of pressure to conform to a certain vision of who this person is in particular.”
Crucially, Macdonald has final cut for his film. He learned that lesson early on, he says, making a fly-on-the-wall doc with Mick Jagger in 2001. “It was great fun, but Mick and I ended up having a difference of opinion over what should be in the film.” Macdonald did not have the final say. “We came to an understanding, but it wasn’t a very creatively satisfying film for me. So I said to myself: ‘I’m not going to do one of these ever again.’”
Macdonald did return to the genre, however, with 2012’s acclaimed Marley, but only after Bob Marley’s extended family agreed not to interfere and let him tell the story his own way. “There were a couple of things, seeing the rough cut, where Ziggy [Marley’s eldest son] said: ‘My mother really hates this. Can you take it out?’ And I said: ‘No. We had an agreement.’ They understood the principle of it, which was that you have to have objectivity if you’re going to make a good film.”
Disagreements with documentary subjects are part of the territory, says Macdonald. “People see themselves differently than you see them. Someone else’s interpretation may be factually correct but challenging to your ego. You’re always balancing up being a human being and being a film-maker, I guess.”
Broomfield can relate to that. His habit of asking unwanted questions often gets him into trouble, sometimes threatening the whole project. Courtney Love vehemently opposed his Kurt & Courtney film, for example, for implicating her in Cobain’s death. As a result of her pressure, Broomfield’s co-funder, MTV, pulled out, the Sundance film festival cancelled its screening of the film, and he was not allowed to use any of Nirvana’s music. Of course, Broomfield put it all in the film, including his gatecrashing of Love’s American Civil Liberties Union award ceremony to berate her onstage for threatening press freedom. That’s about as unauthorised as it gets. “You have to find a way of amalgamating the problem into the story and using everything to your advantage,” he says. “Which is not easy.”
Love and her daughter, Frances, later backed their own authorised documentary, Cobain: Montage of Heck, which makes use of Cobain’s trove of demos, drawings and home recordings. The film sheds light on Cobain’s life and art, but doesn’t go into the areas Broomfield’s film did. To get a rounded view of Cobain, you would have to watch both.
The participation of associates and family members often skews the story. Estates have a vested interest in not just protecting their artists’ brand identity but promoting it, and protecting themselves. Last year’s NWA biopic Straight Outta Compton, for example, counted Dr Dre, Ice Cube and Eazy-E’s widow, Tomica Woods-Wright, among its producers, and was less keen to keep it real when it came to unpleasant episodes such as Dr Dre’s 1991 assault of TV presenter Dee Barnes, which he settled out of court. “Like many of the women that knew and worked with NWA, I found myself a casualty of Straight Outta Compton’s revisionist history,” complained Barnes. There is a lot of that revisionist history about. Biggie and Tupac have had their respective biopics: 2009’s Notorious (made with the input of Biggie’s mother, Voletta Wallace, who also helped Broomfield in his documentary) and, next week, the Tupac Shakur biopic All Eyez On Me. Meanwhile, Steve McQueen is working with Shakur’s estate on an “official” documentary, and Wallace is preparing an “official” Biggie documentary.
As film-makers start to outnumber potential subjects, the situation is becoming farcical. A few years ago, documentarian Alex Gibney told me about attending the 40th birthday party of Julian Assange, with whom he had been in talks for a year to make an inside account of the WikiLeaks saga. He wasn’t the only Oscar-calibre documentary-maker present, he discovered: Charles Ferguson and Laura Poitras were also there, each of them working on their own Assange project. It became something of a poker game. Gibney and Assange parted ways after Assange demanded $1m, and Gibney shifted his emphasis to Chelsea Manning for his 2013 film We Steal Secrets: The Story of WikiLeaks. Ferguson abandoned his planned Assange dramatisation for HBO, perhaps in light of rival Assange movie The Fifth Estate, starring Benedict Cumberbatch.
That left Poitras to claim the prize. Just as her Oscar-winning Citizenfour gave us a ringside seat on the Edward Snowden affair, so her new film, Risk, gets inside access to Assange, even accompanying him on his flight to the Ecuadorian embassy in London, disguised as a motorcycle courier. Risk screened at the Cannes film festival last year to some acclaim, but Poitras has since completely recut the film, following WikiLeaks’ involvement in leaking the Democratic National Committee’s emails during the 2016 US presidential election, and allegations about the organisation’s treatment of women. What was initially a largely favourable account of Assange now promises to be more of a critical exposé – which WikiLeaks’ lawyers are contesting. As Broomfield found with Kurt & Courtney, the only option seems to have been to incorporate the conflict into the story. “This is not the film I thought I was making,” Poitras’s voiceover announces in the trailer. “I thought I could ignore the contradictions. I thought they were not part of the story. I was wrong. They are becoming the story.”
The lines are blurring. Poitras seems to have crossed over from authorised to unauthorised, which often makes for a more interesting story. There is another line being blurred here, too: as Ralph Waldo Emerson claimed: “All biography is autobiography.” The pretence of objectivity when dealing with another person’s life story is pretty unsustainable, all things considered. That is not necessarily a bad thing: it gives film-makers the space to create a personal style, in a genre that was once constrained by rigid conventions. So the question these days is less “How would you like to be remembered?” than “Who would you like to be remembered by?”
This year’s Summer Exhibition at the Royal Academy will centre on diversity, moving the focus away from familiar European artists and instead “open our doors to the world”.
The 2017 edition of the Summer Exhibition, which next year celebrates its 250th anniversary and is still the world’s largest open-submission art exhibition, was curated by painter and printmaker Eileen Cooper.
Cooper, known best for her colourful, stylised paintings of women, had her first work selected for the Summer Exhibition as a student in the 1970s. She said she wanted to display artists who have never come close to the Royal Academy in the past.
“We couldn’t think of one slogan to sum it up, which is a real drawback,” Cooper recently told the Financial Times. “Our aim is to bring something fresh to the show by finding emerging talent and recruiting more artists from countries as disparate as [the Democratic Republic of the] Congo, Peru, Spain and India, as well as Turkey and Kurdistan.”
She added: “I don’t want to focus on personal politics but we have deliberately looked further afield from the home nations. This year we have an exhibition that’s very rich in terms of geography – we’ve tried to open our doors to the world.”
Entering the Royal Academy’s imposing courtyard, visitors are greeted by Windsculpture VI, a colourful fibreglass sculpture by the Nigerian-British artist Yinka Shonibare, who was also on the selection panel. Cooper described it as a wonderful work, “exploring the notion of harnessing motion and freezing it in a moment of time”.
This year there were 12,000 digital entries, which were narrowed down by the committee to the 1,200 works now hanging in the show. A neon sign of the words “And I said I Love You!” by Tracey Emin, a vast painting by Sean Scully, suspended silver jugs by Cornelia Parker and other pieces by Wolfgang Tillmans, Anish Kapoor and Phyllida Barlow stand alongside amateur artworks by members of the public that made the selection panel’s cut.
In a first for the exhibition, this year will have a performance piece – by Alana Francis – as part of the selection. It will take place on Friday nights in the gallery, involving intimate one-to-one spoken word pieces to individuals.
The show also includes includes three film-makers, with an entire room dedicated to Isaac Julien’s work Western Union: Small Boats, which deals with the subject of refugees travelling across the Atlantic, as well as a new photography series by provocateurs Gilbert and George.
Next year the summer exhibition will celebrate its 250th anniversary. Despite drawing in an annual 200,000 visitors, it has often been scorned by critics, particularly for its inclusion of works by members of the public alongside the RA academicians. All the work in the show is for sale, with the proceeds going towards the RA schools programme. In the 1800s the Morning Post described it as a “parade of the hackneyed and incompetent amongst the little dirty paltry aristocracy of the Royal Academy”.
Cooper, however, said the all-inclusive nature of the show should be embraced. “I believe in the Summer Exhibition,” she told the Financial Times. “I think it is churlish to be negative about something that supports the next generation.”• The Summer Exhibition is at the Royal Academy, London W1J, 13 June – 20 August.
Ruby Tandoh, a former contestant on The Great British Bake Off, has criticised fellow celebrity cooks for staying quiet about the general election.
Tandoh, who was a runner-up in the show in 2013 and has since established herself as a cook and a commentator on food and mental health issues, chastised Jamie Oliver, Nigel Slater, Nigella Lawson, the Hairy Bikers and Bake Off judge Paul Hollywood for not speaking out about politics.
lots of big names staying suspiciously silent today despite their entire fortune/following being built on a ~kind and inclusive~ ethos
She directed a series of tweets at the accounts of the cooks, telling Slater “don’t leave us hanging pls”, asking Lawson to “please speak up”, urging the Hairy Bikers to “step forward” and calling Oliver a “prick”.
Tandoh said she also wanted to direct criticism at Hollywood but he had blocked her on Twitter. She added: “Imagine being silent on this incredibly important election just cos you don’t wanna lose out on a couple of tories buying your cookbook.”
imagine being silent on this incredibly important election just cos you don't wanna lose out on a couple of tories buying your cookbook
Although Oliver has not come out in support of Labour, he has condemned the prime minister, Theresa May, for pledging to scrap free school lunches if her party wins the general election, describing the move as “shortsighted”.
“It’s awful, it’s awful. [May] will regret it,” Oliver told Channel 4. “We know the diseases that the NHS are overtly paying for now and being punished for and crucified now on cost, which is largely obesity, type 2 diabetes and diet-related diseases.”
However, he said he was “apolitical” and would work with Labour and the Conservatives on the issue of children’s health.
Tandoh has previously criticised fellow cooks over pandering to food fads and diets as a way to sell books.
In April, she described Tom Kerridge’s carb-cutting cookbook as “total bollocks” and said cooks such as Oliver, the Hairy Bikers and Lorraine Pascale were “swinging from ‘comfort food’ to ‘superfood’ and back again whenever the price is right”.
As a boy facing bullying and discrimination for his Roma identity in his native Albania, Sead Kazanxhiu said he had harboured a simple dream: “To be considered equal to those around me. It was the same dream as our forefathers,” he said. “To not have to hide our identity in order to survive.”
The 30-year-old visual artist, who trained as a painter at the University of Arts in Tirana, is at the forefront of a groundbreaking institute launched in Berlin on Thursday to showcase and promote the largely invisible artistic and cultural existence of Europe’s estimated 12 million Roma people.
“We’ve been living in Europe for 600 years,” Kazanxhiu said, speaking in Romanes. “Now for the first time we have a place we can call our own and the chance to present the image of who we are, rather than others doing it for us.”
The European Roma Institute for Arts and Culture (Eriac) will be led by Roma artists, activists and scholars. Supported by the German government, the Council of Europe and the philanthropist George Soros’s Open Society Foundation, it will promote Roma culture as well as contribute towards overcoming the deep-rooted hostility and discrimination directed against Roma communities across the continent.
“For hundreds of years, it’s been non-Roma who have monopolised the popular representation of the Roma,” said Timea Junghaus, a Hungarian Roma curator and activist who is the Eriac’s executive director.
“The stereotypical view of us is as a romanticised, sexualised, criminal people. The effect is false and destructive. Now we’re claiming our own right to represent ourselves,” she said. “Self-expression will hopefully challenge these long-held assumptions and prejudices.”
Roma people’s cultural contribution to Europe had been almost completely ignored, she added. Only one of the estimated 10,000 works by Roma artists held in state collections in Europe was on show in a permanent exhibition, she said.
That work, by the contemporary Hungarian painter István Szentandrássy, hangs in the Roma parliament in Budapest. “This gives you an idea of the change that needs to happen,” Junghaus said.
Delaine Le Bas, a cross-disciplinary artist from Worthing, who trained at St Martins School of Art in London and refers to herself as Gypsy, said the main problem many Roma artists faced was exclusion.
“Most Roma art is held in storage, gathering dust in basements of museums,” she said. “Most artists are either ignored altogether or, as Gypsies, we’re visible only in a highly negative way.”
Le Bas, together with her husband artist Damian Le Bas, both of whom are associated with the UK’s Outsider art movement, appeared at the first Roma art pavilion at the Venice Biennale in 2007, called Lost in Paradise. Curated by Junghaus, it is regarded as having been a vital step towards the establishment of Eriac.
Damian Le Bas, who draws inspiration in his art – including globes covered in graffiti-like codes – from his own Irish Traveller heritage, said: “We’re treading new ground here in Berlin. It’s a very creative community but we’ve rarely been recognised as proper artists. It’s been more like people loving having Gypsy music at their barbecue parties, just not the Gypsies themselves.”
Malgorzata Mirga-Tas, a Polish painter and sculptor from Czarna Góra in southern Poland, said being part of the institute gave her the support that was lacking in her native Poland, particularly under its nationalist government.
“Poland is a very homogenous country and Roma are seen as something of a threat by many people, because we look different,” she said.
She felt the force of the animosity when a huge wooden sculpture she had made to commemorate 29 Roma – including 22 children from Szczurowa, near her community, who were killed in the Holocaust – was destroyed by vandals. With the help of donations, she is building a new sculpture.
It’s a very creative community but we’ve rarely been recognised as proper artists
“After something like that, joining together with other Roma from across Europe in a more official way than we’ve ever done strengthens our presence at a difficult time,” she said.
Berlin is seen as an ideal location for the institute, not just because of its geography, but because of its vibrant art scene and its status as a magnet for young Europeans.
The government’s support for the centre and its pledge on Thursday that it will support the institute indefinitely, has been vital for the project to work. Inevitably, the commitment also has much to do with the government’s sense of responsibility towards rebuilding the Roma cultural legacy in Europe. During the Holocaust, an estimated 500,000 European Roma were murdered by the Nazis.
While Germany has long addressed the Jewish Holocaust, recognition of Roma victims has taken far longer. A memorial to murdered Sinti and Roma was finally erected in Berlin in 2012 after years of debate. The city is home to a growing number of Roma from across Europe’s diverse communities.
The Eriac will seek to act as a hub, a meeting point for Roma artists and intellectuals, and as a point of contact for festivals, galleries, museums and other institutions seeking partnerships or materials for exhibitions.
Romani Rose, head of the Central Council of German Sinti and Roma, has fought for for decades their civil rights, including a long struggle to secure compensation for Holocaust victims from the government. Rose said the Eriac sent a signal to other countries to “treat your Roma as equals”.
He cited what he called the “horrific, inhumane” conditions, in particular in parts of central and eastern Europe but also in Italy and Spain, in which Roma live in ghettos often without amenities including basic plumbing.
According to the European Roma Rights Centre, an international public interest organisation that fights anti-Romani racism, estimates that about 60% of Roma dwellings in Europe do not have running water. About 12% live in temporary shelters such as tents or shacks, and more than half live in areas with mud tracks instead of paved roads.
Segregation in the education system, frequent forced evictions, discrimination, including racial profiling and ill-treatment by the police, are ubiquitous features in the lives of many European Roma.
Addressing an audience of dignitaries, Kazanxhiu, the Albanian artist, said Roma had finally recognised they had a valuable contribution to make to the political discourse, “to show people you can reach out and embrace other cultures like we’ve done without losing your own culture or identity”.
Il Ritorno d’Ulisse in Patria was first performed in Venice in 1640. It marked Monteverdi’s return to the stage after an absence of more than three decades, and its appearance coincided with a turning point in musical history. Venice had opened the world’s first public opera house three years previously: opera, hitherto the privilege of the Italian aristocracy, was now available to a paying audience. It was almost inevitable that the 73-year-old composer, maestro di capella at St Mark’s, should be drawn back to the genre he had made his own at the Mantuan court with Orfeo (1607) and Arianna (1608). Only fragments of the latter remain, though in his lifetime it was considered his masterpiece. It seems appropriate, perhaps, that to mark the 450th anniversary of his birth, the new Grange festival (occupying the site vacated by the relocated Grange Park Opera) should open with his first work for the public stage.
Monteverdi is the first great musical dramatist, a description that extends to his work way beyond the bounds of opera. Exploring the meaning of a text, whether secular or sacred, and realising its significance in sound, was integral to his methodology. His madrigals traverse vast emotional spaces in the briefest of spans, and his sacred works, most notably the Vespers of 1610, evoke the infinite nature of the divine through the drama of liturgy. His understanding of the human psyche, in all its contradictions, was acute, and his operas equate its workings with the often naked exposure of the human voice, controlled and subtle in inflection as it moves between recitative and arioso.
In Ulisse’s second act, we find a scene that encapsulates his understanding, at its finest, of human ambivalence. Ulisse’s son Telemaco describes in rapturous phrases the beauty of Helen of Troy to his mother, Penelope, who longs only for her husband’s return. When he gazed into Helen’s eyes, he says, he understood why the Trojan war was fought, and why so many lost their lives. Penelope upbraids him in severe recitative, arguing that the war was fought for an adulteress and that the resulting carnage was senseless. Morally, she is absolutely right, but we also notice, just for a second, that she lacks her son’s powers of imagination. It is a moment of extraordinary insight and compassion.
Such ambiguities are common in Monteverdi, but they can make his works difficult to stage, and the Grange’s production, directed by Tim Supple, and led from the pit by the festival’s artistic director, Michael Chance, doesn’t always serve him well. Supple on occasion rides roughshod over the complex metaphysical subtleties that inform narrative and action. His starting point is the Prologue in which Time (Paul Whelan), Fortune (Donna Bateman) and Love (Lorenza Paz Nieto) torment Robin Blaze’s Human Frailty. Each allegorical figure, however, is also allocated a “physicalisation”, as Supple puts it, in the form of an actor or acrobat, who is seen controlling the drama long after their vocal equivalents have left the stage.
In Supple’s scheme, they stand above the gods who interfere in human affairs, and whom Supple comes close to sending up. Giove (Gwilym Bowen) is a construction worker, Minerva (Emma Stannard) a bespectacled new-ager. Nettuno (Whelan again) sports a wetsuit and carries a harpoon. Paul Nilon’s Ulisse and Thomas Elwin’s Telemaco wear modern battle fatigues, carefully reminding us of the continuing relevance of the work’s examination of what it means to return home after conflict. Elsewhere, however, Sumant Jayakrishnan’s over-stylised designs frequently strike an awkwardly symbolic note: Anna Bonitatibus’s Penelope is cocooned from the world in swathes of white cloth that Nilon unwinds just before their final reunion. It’s all a bit fussy – I yearned for the simplicity of James Conway’s staging for English Touring Opera last autumn, in which little was allowed to intrude on the emotional interaction between protagonists.
The score remains a thing to marvel at. Chance has a fine understanding of Monteverdian ebb and flow, though there were occasional ensemble imprecisions in the Academy of Ancient Music’s playing. Bateman sounded oddly tremulous, and Nigel Robson, as the shepherd Eumete, was having an off night. Whelan, Stannard and Bowen are all superb, but it’s Elwin, Nilon and Bonitatibus who carry the evening. Elwin’s elegance makes the apostrophe to Helen very beautiful. Nilon wonderfully captures Ulisse’s noble anguish and the innate, humorous cunning that makes him a born survivor. Bonitatibus embodies Monteverdian singing at its finest, fusing text and line into a single expressive unit, emotions contained and vivid.
This production may be flawed, but it shows up Monteverdi’s greatness, and why we keep returning to him for the illumination he offers into our world.
Zara Larsson isn’t as freshly hatched as she looks. Though her 20th birthday is still six months away, she has sung professionally since she won the Swedish version of Britain’s Got Talent at the age of 10. Having said last year that all she wanted was for people to look at her, she’s got her wish – Larsson is the undisputed superstar of Scandipop, and a constant in the charts. Tonight’s tickets sold out quickly enough for a follow-up autumn tour of 4,000-seaters to have been hastily arranged. Meanwhile, expect to encounter her at a dozen summer festivals.
Larsson reached this point by refining Scandipop’s quirks into hook-studded tropical house and dancehall , her personality funnelled in via a breezy delivery. On stage, this plays out even more winningly than on her records. We don’t see much of the steeliness she exhibits off stage, where she robustly calls out misogynists and homophobes, but she’s no germ-free talent-show adolescent. Equipped with an hour’s worth of bangers, a gold leotard and far more vocal expressiveness than in her recorded work, she alchemises the ingredients into something that feels like a rehearsal for bigger rooms.
With her band stowed on a platform overhead, she has the stage space to create a show that’s a bolt of sugar and colour. Her warm opener, the MNEK collaboration Never Forget You – MNEK himself is here, in fine, keening voice – is an antidote to grim headlines, and the 2016 electropop staple Girls Like is just as inexorable a mood-lifter. It posits Larsson as a particularly peppy cheerleader, belting it out with her hair-thrashing dance squad parading behind.
“Peppy” is accurate – Larsson has developed an American accent and an Americanised sunniness (she’s “really, really happy to be here”) that must startle them in Stockholm. Yet she retains enough of her sardonic European spirit to be going on with. Most pop shows offer a ballad segment involving mood lighting and a chair; Larsson takes it to the parodic nth degree, with shattering top notes, complemented by a squealing guitar solo that could trigger earthquakes.
The one thing she doesn’t do – but should – is milk the applause. The chart-topping Symphony is no sooner over than she leaves the stage, and, while she returns for a rapturous Lush Life, she’s modest in a way that would be alien to her heroine Beyoncé. Something to work on before the next tour.
Gather up your corn dollies, hoist your corset stays and wield your scythe with purpose, because it’s back. Poldark returns this Sunday, cementing its reputation as one of the BBC’s biggest hits of recent years. Set in 1794, this series promises “new loves and new battles, as the French revolution casts a shadow over life in Cornwall”. Cue another outbreak of Poldark fever sparked by Ross Poldark’s semi-naked scything. (Think I’m exaggerating? The search terms “Aidan Turner chest” yield more than 36m hits on Google. Poldark itself pulls in around 5m viewers.)
But where can they go after all the twists and turns of the first two series? Will Aunt Agatha be the only person who notices that Elizabeth’s baby looks rather a lot like Ross? Is there any hope for the doomed romance between Sindy doll-lookalike Caroline Penvenen and scurvy expert Dr Dwight Enys? Will Demelza finally push Ross off a cliff? And can Team Poldark pull off a third outing following the Turbulent Second Series. (This is code for: the series that featured a controversial rape plotline.)
There are essentially two stories we care about in Poldark: Ross’s rivalry with George and the Ross-Demelza-Elizabeth love triangle. Other subplots come and go, but these two never even hint at being resolved. All signs indicate that this twin narrative will continue in the new series, although there are several key new characters to shake things up. This series is based on books five and six of the original Poldark saga, the 1973 novel The Black Moon and the first half of The Four Swans, published in 1976. This is a slight departure from the previous two series that swallowed up two books per series. (But don’t panic, Poldark fans, the end is nowhere near in sight. There are 12 novels in total, so at this rate there could still be another four or five series.)
As series two finished, we knew that Elizabeth was pregnant with a baby that might be Ross’s or might be George’s. Evil George had made multiple attempts to destroy all Ross’s business ideas (which were usually either rubbish or illegal anyway). Ross and Demelza were struggling financially, came to blows over Ross’s obsession with Elizabeth and finally reconciled, albeit not very believably. So what’s next?
Only this time it’s not Ross Poldark stripping. Following endless coverage about Ross’s torso, it almost seemed as if last series Turner must have negotiated a cover-up clause in his contract. This season the services of a decoy torso have been enlisted in the shape of Demelza’s hot younger brother, Drake Carne (Australian actor Harry Richardson). The other brother, Sam Carne (played by Tom York), seems less likely to get involved in The Great Torso Contest as he is “a charismatic Methodist minister”. But this is Cornwall; anything is possible.
“With you beside me, whatever life sends ...” “We can face it.” Ross is finishing Demelza’s sentences in the trailer. Can that last for long? In series two, Demelza had had enough of Ross running off to Elizabeth, while viewers had had enough of him by the time the controversial was-it-rape-or-not scene was aired. Now all that is forgotten and everything is rosy. But Eleanor Tomlinson has hinted that Demelza’s loyalty to Ross will be severely tested, thanks to the arrival of Lieutenant Hugh Armitage (Josh Whitehouse, as seen in Northern Soul).
The on-off romance between the aristocratic Caroline Penvenen and the down-to-earth doctor Dwight Enys was a focal point of the last series. We left them engaged but with an uncertain future as Dr Enys has joined the army. Gabriella Wilde (Caroline) and Luke Norris (Enys) have both signed up for this series, as has Bergerac, sorry, John Nettles, sorry Caroline’s Uncle Ray. No news yet on Horace the pug.
Poldark is on BBC1 on Sunday 11 June at 9pm.
Planet of the Apps, the first original series by Apple and a curious choice to lead the rollout of the company’s evergreen content, won’t be a fun watch for anyone – except maybe venture capitalists and those subscribed to Goop.
The unscripted competition show, which follows enterprising hopefuls as they pitch new, often remarkably boring ideas for phone applications to a panel of celebrity judges, is a bit like Dragon’s Den or Shark Tank meets The Voice, although I don’t imagine it’ll attract the devoted followings of either.
Hosted by Zane Lowe – who also heads up Apple’s international radio station, Beats 1 – Planet of the Apps is a ridiculously optimistic attempt to make a reality show that capitalizes on people’s appetite for the latest and greatest in cellphone accoutrements. In the first episode, which was made available on Apple Music on Tuesday, young men and women, each as convinced of the ingenuity of their endeavors as the next, give a pitch as they descend a moving ramp, looking a bit like the robots in Westworld meeting their makers.
Except instead of a jaded Anthony Hopkins waiting for them in a basement, they’re greeted by Gwyneth Paltrow, Jessica Alba, will.i.am and Gary Vaynerchuk (a tell-it-like-it-is digital marketing tycoon), the jurists who’ll decide whether or not these entrepreneurs advance to the next stage, a meeting with venture capitalists who may or may not invest in their companies.
It’s painful to watch these would-be tech magnates make stilted speeches about why the world needs their app, only to watch them get remorselessly cross-questioned by celebrities who parlayed their success in entertainment into careers in business. This is not to say Paltrow, Alba and the former Black Eyed Peas frontman don’t have useful wisdom to impart, merely that the experience, as a viewer, feels a bit like reading one of those Paltrow quotes about her troubles finding organic wine in Paris, or how she refuses to feed her kids cheese from a tin – it’s a sort of vicarious embarrassment that’s not entirely unenjoyable.
In one pitch, three dude-bros tell the judges about their dating app, Twist, which hopes to ensure those who match actually meet in person – the rate of in-person meetings on apps of this ilk is apparently just 0.824% – by inviting them to events nearby, like parties or concerts or festivals. Alba points out that the evolutionary endpoint of this idea is 20 ravenous men congregating in one place to pursue one attendee. The dude-bros look like they’ve seen a ghost. All four judges pass, tell them they need more women involved in their app, and move on to the next contender.
There were a few good ideas presented, including the app Companion, started by two University of Michigan students concerned about campus safety, that allows a remote friend to monitor, say, your walk home from the bar and get notified when you’ve made it safely. It’s a good idea (not hard to justify in a world where an app like Twist could be conceived), and one of the judges, Vaynerchuk, bites. But then, on the morning of his meeting with his new underlings (curious timing), Google releases a location-sharing feature. “Always be scared of Google and Apple,” one investor says, a line that unsurprisingly made the final cut.
The most grating part of Planet of the Apps is its obsession with the parlance of contemporary entrepreneurship. Nearly every judge, investor and contestant drops an acronym (slam, SDK, B2B, etc) that so self-consciously reiterated the show’s desire to seem serious and corporate, as if an unseen teleprompter held a running list of business-y jargon. But the problem isn’t earnestness – in fact, that’s the least of the show’s problems – but rather the way it turns its young contestants into vessels for the judges’ and investors’ sour displays of authority. “Let me tell you the last thing you should talk about when Google copies your product,” Gary says. “Your brand.”
One hopes that Apple’s future original content more closely resembles that of Netflix and Amazon, who, in pioneering the era of streaming, are offering a veritable smorgasbord of originals, from scripted dramas to indie comedies to stand-up specials and beyond. Apple certainly has the ability to meet that threshold, if not creatively then in sheer buying power. But Planet of the Apps-and-chill is no more likely to become a thing than Twist.
• This article was amended on 12 June 2017. The two students who started the app Companion, were from the University of Michigan, not Miami as an earlier version said.
My Cousin Rachel is a highly enjoyable mystery thriller of the sort that modern communication and the internet have made impossible to set in the present day. Based on the 1951 novel by Daphne du Maurier, and adapted and directed by Roger Michell, it is a fantastically preposterous psychological drama featuring a lush score from Rael Jones and a tremendous lead performance from Rachel Weisz – who is mean, minxy and manipulative. Her sheer charisma persuades you to overlook one or two plot glitches. I can only describe this film as the roistering missing link between The Talented Mr Ripley and Far from the Madding Crowd.
Sam Claflin plays Philip, a moody young man of means in the 19th century, always grumping about the place with his dogs and his horses, pretty short-tempered with the Hardyesque gallery of estate workers. He is, moreover, disagreeable about women, whom he regards as an alien race, despite the fact that the lovely young Louise (Holliday Grainger), daughter of family lawyer Mr Kendall (Iain Glen), is plainly in love with him.
Philip lives in the rambling Cornwall estate in which he was brought up as an orphan by his adored older relative Ambrose (also played, in flashback, by Claflin). But Philip is now de facto master of this huge and neglected house since Ambrose died, having ironically gone abroad to Italy for his health and there fallen in love with and married a woman he once described in ecstatic letters home as his “cousin Rachel”, and by that token Philip’s cousin, too. But later missives show him to be afraid of this Rachel who had apparently become sinister and grasping. His death was put down to a brain tumour, though Philip suspects something else.
Rachel causes uproar by showing up in Cornwall on a visit, in full mourning black. Due to some legal technicality, she actually has no claim on the estate – yet. But with her bewitching beauty and feline sexuality, combined with a seductive air of tragedy, it looks as if Rachel has secret plans. She is about to eat poor goggle-eyed Philip for breakfast.
There is an obvious resemblance between My Cousin Rachel and Rebecca – Du Maurier’s earlier novel from 1938, famously filmed by Alfred Hitchcock. The deliciously scheming, commandingly sure of herself Rachel has something of the secretive housekeeper Mrs Danvers and the worldly Max de Winter. Weirdly, Claflin’s innocent Philip is rather more like the mousily sacrificial second wife in Rebecca, played by Joan Fontaine. When My Cousin Rachel was filmed for the first time in 1952, she was portrayed by Fontaine’s rather more assertive sister, Olivia de Havilland, playing opposite Richard Burton.
And, just as in Du Maurier’s other books, Italy and southern Europe generally stand for the buried passion deep within the rainy English soul, the fiery id suppressed in the workaday English world and released on holiday. (“Going to Venice” was Du Maurier’s private code for having a gay sexual adventure – an important tool for understanding her story Don’t Look Now and Nicolas Roeg’s movie version, and not irrelevant to My Cousin Rachel.)
Weisz owns the screen as Rachel: it is a theatrically self-aware performance, encased in shimmering black, an outfit occasionally accessorised with jewellery to which Rachel is not entitled. In an early spasm of rage, and before he has laid eyes on her, Philip demands to know from a servant what Rachel looks like and if she has a moustache. The answer to this ungallant question is of course no, but there is something dark and sensually hirsute about Weisz’s presence, mixed with an insolent confidence in her bearing. She effortlessly wins a round of gamesmanship with Philip when first arriving in his house, succeeding in making him feel uncomfortable, when he had decided to make her squirm. Her success is amusing and obliquely erotic.
As for the way the narrative pans out, that will need some indulgence that the film has more or less earned with its storytelling verve. The audience is entitled to ask what importance Rachel’s cousin-hood or cousin-ness has, given that it is emphasised in the story and featured in the title. They may or may not be satisfied with the outcome. I was.
Weisz is a great villainess, a character who uses the promise of sex and the actual activity of sex for her own ends and yet keeps alive the possibility that she isn’t what we suspect. The final long-shot of Rachel and her horse is another allusion to Hardy, with an entertaining frisson of the macabre.
In recent years, they’ve populated the shortlists of Edinburgh’s major comedy awards. Now they’re back in town with all-new shows to unleash on the world. The 2011 comedy award champ, Adam Riches, returns with what he’s calling – accurately enough, I’d guess – Inane Chicanery. The 2015 best newcomer, Sofie Hagen, and 2016 best show nominee Al Porter – both excellent comics – return with new sets. Then there’s one of the country’s smartest, most inquisitive – and funniest – acts, Sara Pascoe, back at the fringe after a year off, with a new show, LadsLadsLads, about life after a breakup. (Her ex, John Robins, addresses the same subject elsewhere in town …)
It’s only polite to see a few homegrown acts when you visit a festival. And after their comedy awards double whammy last year, Scottish comedians are on the up. You can see Richard Gadd’s 2016 triumph again this year, now in a theatre setting; last year’s best newcomer, Scott Gibson, returns with a show about fathers, sons and masculinity. Fast-rising Fern Brady is back, as is the untouchable Jerry Sadowitz. Maybe the most intriguing member of the home team will be Craig Ferguson, who’s been so busy making late-night US talkshows, he hasn’t performed at the fringe since the early 1990s. Ferguson, who once traded under the name Bing Hitler, will be performing his chatshow at a new Gilded Balloon venue in the centre of town.
Comedians are not all here just to make you laugh. Some want to make the world a better place, and in Edinburgh they’ll include Mark Thomas, with A Show That Gambles on the Future (what can he be referring to?); Fin Taylor, who made a splash last year with a show about race and now turns his focus to leftwing tribalism; and Kiri Pritchard-McLean, returning with a show about her time mentoring vulnerable kids. Desiree Burch is worth looking out for: her new show addresses “sex, race and capitalism”. And I’m eager to catch up with Dane Baptiste, a perceptive social commentator, now discussing “the worldwide pursuit of wealth, power and pleasure” in his show GOD (Gold Oil Drugs).
The last two winners of the Barry award at the Melbourne comedy festival – Sam Simmons and Zoe Coombs Marr – have come straight to Edinburgh and either won (Simmons) or been nominated (Coombs Marr) for the UK’s top live comedy prize. Both return this year, the latter as part of the intriguing Wild Bore. Meanwhile, the 2017 Barry champ, Hannah Gadsby, arrives trailing plaudits for her show Nanette, a “fascinating and profound” show (wrote one critic), addressing her experiences of homophobia and the limits of humour. I’m also looking forward to seeing Barry nominee Anne Edmonds, with her character-comedy show No Offence, None Taken.
The fringe sometimes seems like a young comics’ game: its schedule is gruelling, and it’ll break you at the bank. And yet, there are several fine comedians of an older generation who are gigging in Edinburgh. I bow to no one in my love for Alexei Sayle, and will be beating a hasty path to his untitled new show. Sayle’s contemporaries at the fringe include Sue Perkins (whose fine show I caught on tour), Ruby Wax, and (making a belated Edinburgh debut) Jan Ravens, while the slightly younger Dominic Holland (father of Spider-Man Tom) and John Bishop also make fringe returns. Perhaps the biggest buzz will be around Dave Johns, who returns to standup since finding late-in-life cinema stardom in Ken Loach’s I, Daniel Blake. His show is called I, Fillum Star.
Away from the solo acts, there are several twosomes and groups I’m looking forward to, even if sketch comedy seems to have descended from its high watermark of two or three years ago. Giants will be worth a look, and riding high, after 50% of them – Will (son of Ian) Hislop – won the 2017 Musical Comedy award. So, too, Goodbear, Goose and Gein’s Family Giftshop. (Is there a rule that they all have to start with G?) Among the intriguing duos, I’m keen to see 2014 best newcomer nominee Steen Raskopoulos’s improv two-hander The Bear Pack, and can’t wait for the improbably named, improbably limbed mime act Trygve Wakenshaw’s new show with his new son, Trygve vs a Baby.
Some comics fit neatly into none of these categories – or several. Among these independent spirits, oddball 2014 comedy award-winner John Kearns returns to the fringe with a show that will, I suspect, be cannibalised from the Christmas entertainment he staged at BAC last December. Comedy cottage industry Luisa Omielan, who seems finally to have secured the mainstream success for which she has long been qualified, brings a third show, Politics for Bitches, to the festival where the What Would Beyoncé Do? phenomenon began. And – most mouth-watering of all – cult Edinburgh favourite Joseph Morpurgo launches Hammerhead, another nugget of high-concept event-comedy, based on the Frankenstein myth.
Every fringe brings with it another wave of hot US comic talent, following in the footsteps of breakout fringe acts gone by – Demetri Martin, Bo Burnham, and last year, Michelle Wolf. This year’s influx include a tale of romance soured, Wisdomless, by Egyptian-American Maria Shehata; a short stint by The Daily Show man Hasan Minhaj (who also plays Soho theatre in London); Julio Torres, one of SNL’s new writers, whose “incongruously dreamy comedy” has been hailed by the New York Times; and Emmy award-winning Sara Schaefer, whose show “confronts her complicated relationship with Jesus, America, and death”.
I always leave the fringe ruing the three or four (or more) buzzy acts that I tantalisingly failed to see. Last year’s crop included Jon Pointing, whose spoof acting workshop returns this summer, prankster Mat Ewins and experimentalist Jordan Brookes. I’ll be looking out for all of them this year, as I will the musical sibling double act Flo & Joan, a sleeper hit at fringe 2016 who drew (whisper it!) Flight of the Conchords comparisons from my esteemed colleague Steve Bennett at Chortle.
Finally, there are the acts I’ve never seen – or heard of, in some cases. There’s a long list of new comics I hope to encounter, some of whom will go on to be my favourites – and yours, perhaps – in years to come. Who are they? How long have you got? Alice Marshall, winner of the Brighton fringe best comedy gong last month; Johnny White, brought to Edinburgh by Liam Williams’s new production company Fight in the Dog (the new Invisible Dot perhaps?); Joz Norris, who performs his show from inside a giant web; Lucy Pearman (one half of LetLuce) and Viggo Venn (of Zach and Viggo) with exciting solo debuts; Leicester Mercury comedian of the year Alasdair Beckett-King; Funny Women 2016 winner Harriet Braine … The roll call is long. The fringe looms. I can’t wait to get stuck in.
During the course of the election campaign, Instagrammers have been getting creative and sharing their #generalelection artwork. And while some have been inspired by one politician or party, others have dedicated their efforts to encourage everyone to use their vote regardless of party preferences.
This user imagined Theresa May and Jeremy Corbyn with their transport of choice.
Corbyn’s “fairytale economics” came under scrutiny in this artwork.
Here’s a twist on the “Make June the end of May” slogan – a confident Conservative reverse on what looks like a 1980s album cover.
This pro-Labour artwork praises the party’s campaign, describing it as “heartening”.
“Jez We Can!”
Laura Fleming illustrated what she pictures as the four cornerstones of Labour
If foxes could vote...
Coalition of Chaos was a soundbite that the Tories spread throughout the campaign. Would you buy their debut album?
This pro-Labour artwork expresses concern for the state of public services, and the need to give those who need it a helping hand.
Some social media artists haven’t linked their work to any one party, but rather focus on encouraging everyone to turn up and vote.
Getting the youth vote out has been a particular focus of the election.
In an interview Cigarettes After Sex’s frontman Greg Gonzalez gave last year – around the time word-of-mouth had belatedly turned the band’s 2012 debut EP into something of an online phenomenon – he suggested that the greatest praise he had received was from fans who’d told him that his music helped with their sleep anxiety. It’s slightly curious for an artist to be delighted when people tell him that his band makes them want to nod off, but it gives you an insight into the kind of music Cigarettes After Sex make. Hushed and subdued, every song on their eponymous debut album proceeds at more or less the same somnambulant pace, the echoing guitars and softly tapped drums gently supported by washes of ambient synthesiser.
At this point, you might be forgiven for switching off. Of late, the world hasn’t exactly suffered from a crippling dearth of US indie bands keen to let the listener know they’re fully conversant with the oeuvres of Mazzy Star, the Cocteau Twins and Galaxie 500. From Beach House to Warpaint to the umpteen bands bracketed under the sub-genre of chillwave, you’ve scarcely been able to move for cooed vocals, dreamy electronics and guitars drenched in reverb over the last decade. By rights, Cigarettes After Sex should sound like stragglers, late to the dreampop revival party; instead, they sound like the best band it’s produced.
Part of the reason is undoubtedly to do with Gonzalez’s voice, which is fantastic: so androgynous, virtually everyone who doesn’t know otherwise seems to have assumed Cigarettes After Sex’s singer was female. Where most bands of their ilk tend to bury their lead vocalist in echo, reducing them to just another component within the wistful drift of sound, Gonzalez is the centre of attention here. Cigarettes After Sex’s sound is surprisingly muscular compared to their peers – the bass is loud, the interlocking guitar lines more clearly defined than the usual haze – but there’s no doubt where the focus is. It points up the other reason they seem one step ahead: their songs are stronger than anything else that’s been released in the same general area in recent years. They work in a sub-genre where atmosphere is often allowed to trump melody, but Gonzalez’s tunes are uniformly fabulous, to the point where it’s hard to pick out a highlight. Addictive, memorable and with the potential to reach an audience far wider than the cult following that normally awaits this kind of stuff, they’re the reason why an album where every track’s sonic components are more or less the same never feels monotonous or boring.
But there are problems. Just as the stuff about sleep anxiety gives you an insight into Cigarettes After Sex’s sound, so the band’s dreadful name suggests that words might be an issue. And so it proves. Not all the lyrics are bad by any stretch of the imagination, but it’s hard not to notice that Gonzalez has a habit of writing about sex in a manner that somehow suggests he only saw a lady naked for the first time last week and is still reeling from the experience. You’re never that far from an awestruck description of a woman taking her clothes off – “You open your dress and show me your tits on the swing set at the playground” – or from a sighing suggestion that “It’s just as good as I knew it would be”, or from some pretty awful wordplay: “Your lips, my lips, apocalypse.” Sweet, meanwhile, finds him apparently breaking off from enthusiastically playing with himself – “Watching the video where you’re lying in your red lingerie 10 times nightly” – in order to pitch some fairly sickly wooing in the direction of his inamorata: “It’s so sweet knowing that you love me … sweet knowing that I love you and running my fingers through your hair, it’s so sweet.”
Whether you find this kind of (presumably) faux naivety charming, irritating or a bit creepy – “Know you don’t really need to be in love to make love to me,” wheedles Truly – it’s a definite improvement on the moments when Gonzalez stops writing like a 16-year-old recently divested of his virginity and decides to play the sophisticated lothario. “Señorita, you’re a cheater, but so am I,” he sings on Young and Dumb, a song with a tune as beautiful as its lyrics are teeth-gritting. It subsequently refers to the object of his desires as “The Patron Saint of Sucking Cock”: listening to it, you do find yourself struggling to think of a circumstance in which a man referring to a woman using that particular nomenclature wouldn’t seem appalling. Perhaps it’s a pet name which the aforementioned Senorita finds delightful: “I know it’s a bit slushy, but I call him Snufflewuff and he calls me the Patron Saint of Sucking Cock.”
This is all clearly offputting. It says something about how engaging the sound is, how strong the songs are melodically, that it doesn’t spoil the album at all. Occasionally coming up with embarrassing, even inadvertently creepy lyrics is something a writer might well grow out of, although the question of how Cigarettes After Sex’s sound might subsequently develop is intriguing. Musically at least, theirs is one of those debut albums that seems to have arrived fully formed, not a hair out of place, which traditionally means development is an issue. Time will tell whether this is as good as Cigarettes After Sex get, but for now, it’s undoubtedly good enough: close your ears to the occasional lyrical gaffe and you might have one of the debut albums of the year.
• Cigarettes After Sex: Cigarettes After Sex is released on Friday 9 June on Partisan Records.
When Keith Houghton bought his four-bedroom detached house earlier this year, he did a rare thing for an author: he paid cash, with earnings from his books.
Keith who, you may ask? Houghton is one of a handful of so-called “hidden” bestsellers: his self-published crime thrillers are ebooks, sales of which are not monitored by the UK’s official book charts (if they don’t have ISBNs, which self-published titles often don’t).
Houghton made his money over the past six years by selling more than 500,000 books, chiefly through his Gabe Quinn series of thrillers. In a world in which traditionally published authors struggle to make £7,000 a year from their work, it is no wonder Houghton says: “I feel like I have won the lottery.”
And he is not alone. A handful of writers who top the Kindle charts, including LJ Ross and Rachel Abbott, have also defied rejections from publishers and agents to knock out seven-figure sales for their brand of crime and thriller writing. This, in a market where it only takes around 3,000 sales to top the hardback charts.
Houghton’s story is typical of many self-published writers: after notching up more than 100 rejection slips, the Lancashire-based computer repairman decided to self-publish his first Quinn novel, Killing Hope. Mending computers in Leigh may have made him seem an odd fit for hardboiled crime set in LA; at first, readers seemed to think so, as he struggled to sell even a handful of copies online. So Houghton gave them away instead. Within a day, Killing Hope had been downloaded 25,000 times.
“I was stunned,” he recalls – although his shock was as much at the thought that he had given away £25,000 in profits. “But once it reverted back to being paid for, it started to get traction in the charts and within three months, it had sold in to six figures,” he says. “I’m still quite shocked.”
For avid reader and former City lawyer Ross, writing was a distraction during her maternity leave. After she contacted 12 agents with her genre-crossing crime novel Holy Island, she had a couple of potential offers on the table. “But when I looked at the terms of the contract, my husband asked if I had thought of publishing through Kindle, because the terms for authors seemed far more favourable,” she says.
Her husband was not wrong: while the average traditionally published author earns only about 7.5% of the cover price on every book sold, Amazon’s self-publishing division, Kindle Direct, pays 70% of sale price. So independent authors who know how to push themselves can take home £1 a copy. For writers such as Ross, whose sales over five books have now topped 900,000, this is a tidy sum.
She also enjoys the freedom her independent status gives her. “As a writer, I feel uninhibited about what I write,” she explains. “I like that. I can write what comes to mind.” Reading her work, it does seem unlikely her stories would have got past the average editor. What would a publisher do with a crossover of The Wicker Man and Inspector Morse? Where would a bookseller place a novel that spans crime, romance and humour?
Agent Lizzy Kremer says the freedom to write outside genre norms was why agents and publishers once kept a close eye on self-published authors, as digital downloads were effective tests for readers’ appetites. Amazon had identified the “gap in the market for authors writing books that publishers didn’t feel able to publish”, explains Kremer, whose clients include The Girl on the Train writer Paula Hawkins. This meant that interesting work without the obvious commercial potential that publishers require as a guarantee suddenly had a chance.
But there is a caveat. To be a self-published bestseller demands authors become more hustler than ink slinger. Abbott, one of Kremer’s few self-published clients, was 59 when she published Only the Innocent, the first of seven psychological thrillers that have collectively sold more than 2m copies. But the Mancunian is no typical late starter: she was already a multimillionaire after the sale of her media company 17 years ago, so she not only had the time to devote to writing and publicising, but the nous to do it using her own 27-page marketing plan. “I worked 14 hours a day, seven days a week for three months. I worked through book bloggers, wrote articles and question-and-answer pieces, and asked people to review the book,” she recalls.
It is hard to imagine that many writers would be able, never mind prepared, to make such a commitment. Even Abbott has not kept it up: in the US she has published two of her books with one of Amazon’s traditional publishing divisions, Thomas & Mercer – a crime and thriller imprint that now handles all the extra tasks Abbott handled herself, from jacket design to editing.
Abbott, Houghton or Ross may be a dying breed, though. As Hollywood once co-opted the independent cinema boom, conglomerate publishers have rushed into a digital book market that was once ruled by individual writers armed with no more than a PC and an idea. As a result of their influence, Kremer says, the market has become “the domain of the derivative”: the biggest self-published titles – often thrillers – are all beginning to look awfully familiar.
For an industry that is supposedly the playground for risk takers, it is a sad thought that self-publishing may in the future be dictated by the same thinking that drives the traditional publishers: prioritising risk avoidance over experimental and unique writing, always scrambling to keep up with rivals by pumping out imitations of every “surprise” success: Gone Girl, Fifty Shades, The Da Vinci Code and The Girl on the Train.
As Kremer says: “It is often the market outliers that become the biggest hits, those books that come out of leftfield and offer something readers have been unconsciously waiting for”. How many of those will be by “hidden” authors? That remains to be seen.
In 1920, on a visit to Marcel Duchamp’s studio in Manhattan, Man Ray’s ever-curious eye was drawn to a large sheet of dust-covered glass. When viewed though his camera, its surface, he later noted, “appeared like some strange landscape from a bird’s eye view”. He opened the camera’s shutter and the two friends then went for lunch.
The resulting photograph, made in his absence via an exposure of around an hour, is the starting point for an intriguing exhibition, A Handful of Dust, at the Whitechapel Gallery in London. Man Ray’s mysterious image, later titled Dust Breeding, had a long and curious afterlife. For a good while it was known, if at all, as a piece of surreal art rather than as a disruptive moment in photography’s history: a kind of unconscious collaboration between Man Ray and Duchamp, whose arrangement of lead foil and fuse wire on two panels of glass – called The Bride Stripped Bare By Her Bachelors, Even – had been rendered almost unrecognisable by the layer of dust that so intrigued the photographer.
The exhibition is a playful and at times provocative response to Man Ray’s photograph, not so much a history of dust in photography as a series of tangential nods to his image, encouraging viewers to make connections. The title references TS Eliot’s bleak modernist poem The Waste Land – “I will show you fear in a handful of dust” – published two years after Man Ray took his shot.
There are several images in the show that carry a similar ominous charge, from an anonymous press photograph of Mussolini’s dust-coated Lancia, consigned to a garage for 10 years after he was dragged from it and executed, to the deadly nuclear dust that settled on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in the wake of America’s bombs.
David Campany, the show’s curator, has trawled eBay as well as art history, filling one large frame with a grid of postcards depicting apocalyptic dust storms in 1930s America, as well as unearthing some very untypical photographs by Jeff Wall of grainy rock surfaces that recall Nasa’s early images of the moon.
Here and there, too, we see how dust has been used as a creative tool rather than a subject: the French surrealist Jacques-André Boiffard seems to have shot his grainy human figures through an encrusted lens, while American Aaron Siskind’s photographic response to the abstract expressionists was a process of tracing, rubbing and smearing on the surfaces of his negatives and prints, the dirt, dust and grime so anathema to the generations of documentary and art photographers who shot on film being embraced almost as an end in itself.
The conceptual thrust of the exhibition is interrupted by a handful of more traditional documentary images whose drama is, if anything, amplified by their seeming almost out of place here. Walker Evans’s image of a child’s grave in Hale County, Alabama, in 1936 is stark and poignant. The shadow cast by the headstone, the empty plate that rests atop the mound of dry soil, and the flat, arid land around all summon up the desolate suffering of the nomadic sharecroppers he moved among for his classic book, Let Us Now Praise Famous Men.
The dust that enveloped downtown Manhattan after the 9/11 attacks is rendered almost unearthly in Jeff Mermelstein’s photograph of a statue of a man at rest in what has become a ruined square, the trees and buildings dusted with grey ash, the ground covered in rubble. Only the hint of ochre at the base of a tree alerts us to the fact that this is in fact a colour photograph, but rendered monochrome by what fell on the traumatised city.
The more you linger, the more the visual echoes become apparent. The Czech photographer Tereza Zelenkova’s shot of the French thinker George Bataille’s grave echoes Evans’s more desolate image. In its degraded state – it was the last frame in a roll of film and emerged pockmarked from the printing process – it also speaks of the inbuilt decay of analogue photography. Likewise, on a larger scale, Robert Burley’s photograph of a crowd of former employees watching the dust cloud left by the demolition of the Kodak plant in Rochester, New York, in 2007.
The most provocative series is probably John Divola’s Photographs from the Vandalism Portfolio, 1974-75. The Californian artist broke into empty houses and disturbed the dust of disuse with spray cans, a knife, string and cardboard, creating images that suggest all manner of dark references, from ritual magic to drug-fuelled creative reverie.
A more bare-faced intervention was carried out by Robert Fillou who, in the late 1970s, had himself photographed cleaning – without permission – the surfaces of paintings by Old Masters in the Louvre. Back then, unbelievably, no one seemed to mind and Fillou exhibited his polaroids alongside his dust-smeared cloths – which, he suggested, held the auras of the paintings themselves.
The exhibition ends, inevitably, with Sophie Ristelhueber’s homage to Man Ray’s iconic image. The Parisian’s shot is remarkable for, among other things, its reversal of scale, being an aerial photograph of an expanse of the Kuwaiti desert marked by the debris of war following the allied force’s assault on Saddam Hussein’s army in 1991.
The photograph was made with Man Ray’s remarkably small image in mind – so much so that Ristelhueber did not include it in Fait, the series she made on her return. In 2007, though, she printed it as a standalone work, entitled Because of the Dust Breeding. It would have made a good alternative title to this endlessly thought-provoking exhibition.
There have been 40 operas based on Hamlet written since 1812 alone. How many of them can you name?
Exactly.
Where are the Hamlets in the standard opera repertoire? The greatest play ever written lacks a single great operatic counterpart. Surely Shakespeare’s tragedy provides everything a composer could ever need: strong central characters, a rich poetic tapestry, existential dilemmas, revenge, murder and the best mad scene in the business. A producer, too, can tick several boxes: a built-in audience of Shakespeare fans, a great sword fight, a ghost, splashes of comedy and a big moody design. It’s a perfect excuse to spend an outrageous amount of money.
Is there something in the play that somehow resists operatic treatment?
So why haven’t they stuck? Could they possibly all be bad? Might Verdi be to blame for never having got round to it? Or is there something in the play that somehow resists operatic treatment?
Buffs will find this reductionist autopsy a trifle unfair. Since the 1990s, Ambroise Thomas’s 1868 French grand opera has seen an uptick of interest (in spite of Hamlet surviving to be crowned king of Denmark at the end). Thomas’s work is certainly the standout of the pack, and musically it is sumptuous and surprising. Yet its mangling of Shakespeare is universally mocked, and revivals have all but required a Simon Keenlyside or Thomas Hampson to act as its champion, claiming a juicy unsung role that’s free to interpret, precisely because of its rarity.
The puzzle is somewhat exacerbated by coincidence. Opera began around 1600 with either Jacopo Peri’s Dafne in Florence in 1597 or Monteverdi’s L’Orfeo in Mantua 10 years later, depending on your proclivity for pretentiousness. Hamlet was written between 1599 and 1602. Clearly, travel was an off-putting experience 400 years ago, and yet within 10 years of its creation, Hamlet had been performed in Poland, Holland, Germany, and even on a boat off the coast of Sierra Leone. So Hamlet and opera are both about 417 years old this year, and in spite of all they have endured, both still show remarkable signs of life. Don’t they deserve to be happy together at last?
Brahms, Tchaikovsky, Prokofiev, Shostakovich, and even Haydn, have all had a go at composing incidental music for it
An impressive list of composers have sized up the challenge, only to give up the ghost. Verdi, Bizet, Berlioz, Glinka, Debussy, Mendelssohn, Prokofiev, Respighi and Schumann debated setting Hamlet, only to decide it was not to be. In the theatre, history shows that before donning his inky cloak, the great actor du jour would ask the greatest musical mind in town to compose the requisite incidental music. Brahms, Tchaikovsky, Prokofiev, Shostakovich, and even Haydn, all had a go. Some of this music is lost, but what remains often frustrates. No composer had a palpable hit with Hamlet. Tchaikovsky’s concert overture comes close, although the Ophelia theme almost precisely traces the opening measures of the jazz standard, Autumn Leaves. It’s not his fault, but it doesn’t help.
The last century saw gristlier modernists tackle iterations of the play text: Kurtág, Honegger, Birtwistle, Maxwell Davies, Cage and Shostakovich again, all to support different incarnations for the concert hall or playhouse – even more for the screen. William Walton did his job admirably for Olivier’s film, but his music was noticeably stronger in Henry V. And yet after their brush with the bard, precisely none of these minds were sufficiently bug-bitten to extend their genius to a fully operatic Hamlet.
Many simply chose a different play. Since his elevation to mythic status sometime in the late 18th century, Shakespeare seems to have ghosted his way through all the great musical minds except Mozart’s. Beethoven once began sketches for a Macbeth. Wagner, of all the plays from which to choose, set Measure for Measure. Walton chose Troilus and Cressida; Berlioz, Much Ado About Nothing; and Barber, Antony and Cleopatra. Unbelievably, The Merry Wives of Windsor has succeeded in opera where Hamlet has failed. What’s the beef?
Shakespeare seems to have ghosted his way through all the great musical minds except Mozart
It’s true that the canon of regularly produced operas doesn’t number very many. It has, however, increased in recent years on the back of adventurous programming, yet operas inspired by Shakespeare still form a small subset of perhaps a dozen standard works: Verdi’s trio of masterpieces (Falstaff, Otello, and Macbeth), Britten’s Dream, a pair of Romeo and Juliets, and only some of the works mentioned above. Time will tell if Aribert Reimann’s Lear, Ryan Wigglesworth’s The Winter’s Tale or Thomas Adès’s The Tempest remain in the hearts and minds of subscribers and artists. Indeed, we may all have a role to play to see that they do. Perhaps the seismic financial economy of opera and its attendant risk aversion are the unwilling culprits for Hamlet’s ignominious exclusion.
The Shakespeare 450 celebrations in 2014 were an excellent excuse to rediscover some of these operas, among them Franco Faccio’s forgotten 1865 Amleto that brings with it a clue to our Hamlet conundrum. An appealing (if slightly square) musical setting, it features the first Shakespeare libretto by Arrigo Boito, Verdi’s future collaborator on Otello and Falstaff. We learn that its premiere was promising, though revivals were paused while Faccio and Boito joined the Italian army. But then tragedy struck: at the La Scala revival in 1871, star tenor Mario Tiberini fell severely ill, tried to struggle on, but consequently gave a disastrous and incoherent performance. Traumatised by the fiasco, Faccio withdrew the score, which went unseen for nearly 150 years until its reincarnation in 2014 in the Albuquerque Journal Theater of the National Hispanic Cultural Center in New Mexico.
Verdi, who had harboured hopes for years to set Hamlet, felt beaten to the punch by the younger Faccio, and the whole episode scuttled his plans. He wrote to librettist Giulio Carcano: “Now, if King Lear is difficult, Hamlet is even more so … I do not give up all hope, however, that one day I can get together with you and work on this masterpiece of the English theatre.”
We heed the master when he gives himself pause. WH Auden felt it was difficult for characters in opera to be seen as good and bad – intentions are simplified and faultlines writ much larger. But these are the trappings of the opera of the past. Shakespeare’s Hamlet and Lear are brilliant characters, in part because they’re simultaneously cruel and charismatic, and require us to wrestle with the inherent hypocrisy in our human nature. Gerald Finley’s J Robert Oppenheimer in John Adams’s opera Doctor Atomic is an immensely complex figure. And, in her most recent work, Only the Sound Remains, Kaija Saariaho has confirmed that an entire operatic career today can be built on fluid psychologies that oscillate freely between conflicting emotions, sometimes in the same bar. Perhaps the form is finally ready for its pressure.
Strolling calmly into this frame is Australian composer Brett Dean. A violist by trade, his first opera, Bliss, carefully prioritised the comprehension of novelist Peter Carey’s text, without sacrificing the composer’s clustered orchestral language. It is too early to gauge whether Bliss will survive its inaugural hoopla to enter the global mainstream. But the sheer torrent of Dean performances around the world today attest to his increasing relevance and importance in the context of the post-minimalists such as Adams, major contemporary figures such as Adès and George Benjamin, and a bulging class of young breakouts including Nico Muhly, Mark Simpson, and even the 12-year-old Alma Deutscher.
Dean has at his side singers Barbara Hannigan and Allan Clayton, and director Neil Armfield, each an ideal advocate for new work and fresh horizons. The rough textual editing that opera requires can hardly shock more than some of today’s aggressively pruned Shakespeare adaptations for the English stage, to say nothing of works in translation the world over. Opera, like theatre, is always rumoured to be dying, yet it has managed against the odds to not only survive but measurably evolve in recent years. Perhaps the moment has arrived for Hamlet to meet his musical match.
Amid a growing backlash over Texas’s stringent new immigration law, two US senators have called for the SXSW festival to leave Austin.
A letter to the organiser of the major annual music and technology event sent by the Democratic senators Robert Menendez of New Jersey and Catherine Cortez Masto of Nevada asks for next March’s event to be relocated to a different state “until the recent anti-immigrant SB4 law is repealed”.
Signed into law last month amid fierce protests, SB4 threatens to criminalize members of law enforcement who do not comply with requests to hold detained immigrants for federal pick-up, in effect banning so-called sanctuary cities. It also empowers individual officers to ask about the immigration status of people they detain. In the letter, the senators call it “one of the most extreme anti-immigrant and discriminatory state laws signed to date”.
In a statement, Roland Swenson, the CEO and co-founder of SXSW, said he agreed with criticism of the bill but “we will stay here and continue to make our event inclusive while fighting for the rights of all”.
Several Texas cities and civil rights groups have filed lawsuits aimed at blocking the measure, which goes into effect on 1 September. Its advocates describe it as a “law and order bill”, but critics – including sheriffs in some of Texas’s biggest urban areas – argue it will harm relations between police and immigrant communities and is motivated by the kind of nativist prejudice unleashed by Trump’s rise to power.
The American Immigration Lawyers Association (Aila) announced on Wednesday that it is moving its 2018 conference out of the Dallas suburb of Grapevine and into another state as a protest against SB4. According to the Aila, the event has more than 3,000 attendees and is the country’s largest annual gathering of immigration lawyers and legal professionals.
More boycotts may follow after Texas’s Republican governor, Greg Abbott, said on Tuesday that he is recalling lawmakers for a special session next month with an agenda that includes passing a “bathroom bill” to limit use of facilities by transgender people. Leading technology companies and the Texas Association of Business are among those to have criticized the proposal. When North Carolina passed a similar bill in 2016, it was hit with economic and cultural repercussions estimated by the Associated Press – before the law was largely repealed in March – to risk costing the state more than $3.76bn in lost business over 12 years.
For as long as cinema has been around, it has been in thrall to the vulnerability of women. Whether they are tied to railway tracks or being stalked in the night, female characters are often victims in service of plot. But for the protagonist of Cate Shortland’s psychological drama, Berlin Syndrome – a young woman whose victimhood is precisely the point – a woman’s vulnerability is the starting point for a fascinating interrogation of that position.
“I love stories about overcoming hurt and how we get through it: ‘How do we continue?’ I like the idea that we’re not static,” the Australian film-maker says. The female protagonists of Shortland’s two previous films – Somersault (2004) and Lore (2012) – are often made vulnerable, but refuse to be defined by it. That’s the case whether they are dealing with their burgeoning sexuality in suburban Canberra or braving the Allied invasion of their German homeland circa 1945. In much the same way, Shortland’s new film shows a woman in circumstances outside her control, and plunged into a situation where the power dynamics of gender are made clear.
Berlin Syndrome is a claustrophobic, harrowing drama about a young woman, Clare (Teresa Palmer) travelling alone. After a casual fling with a handsome Berliner, Andi (Max Riemelt), she awakes to find her sim card removed from her phone – and the door to his apartment bolted shut. She is a captive, and the man who had been a magnetic sexual conquest hours earlier is not what he seemed.
Riemelt turns in an impressive performance as Andi, a bourgeois English teacher by day, callous kidnapper by night. It’s the character’s very normality that’s so chilling. “The film is being marketed as a thriller,” Shortland says. “To me, it’s not about the genre, but about the emotional truth of these people ... and Andi’s ability to be a good liberal who can just turn off his humanity.”
Rather than a clearcut treatise on abuse and control, Berlin Syndrome casts an eye on the troubling sexual attraction between the two characters. Clare and Andi waver between loathing and lust for one another throughout her forced confinement. “She goes into that apartment wanting to take a risk – a one-night stand – but never expecting what happens. And I think that’s a part of female desire, this idea of taking risks.”
The idea that some physical danger comes with the territory of sexual desire is one that few women want to consider too deeply. “We’re fed the idea as little girls,” Shortland says. “‘We’re told there is a big, bad wolf out there, and it’s scary. Think of all the old stories about women being trapped and romance coming from it – Rapunzel, Beauty and the Beast. When you get older, you play with that idea. But you don’t want it in any real sense.”
Filming was split between location shoots in the streets of Berlin and re-created interiors in Melbourne. In the past, Shortland has shown a real visual and thematic affinity for nature. Berlin Syndrome is a bit of a departure, taking place wholly in an urban setting. But Clare’s very exclusion from greenery and fresh air are built into the cruelty of her entrapment. Her only markers of passing time are changing leaves and falling snow. Shortland approached the confined, darkened visual style of the film with an eye for her protagonist’s physical and emotional imprisonment. “My cinematographer, Germain McMicking, has worked on a lot of documentaries. So we thought about the film in terms of the character in that real space. It starts off quite handheld, but as she is confined, the camera becomes steadier and more settled. So we looked at the feel of it based on her emotions.”
The apartment that Clare is trapped in is based a real one, in the Prenzlauer Berg neighbourhood of Berlin. “It was a 50- or 60-apartment building with [only] about eight apartments occupied. But all of our young people are flocking there. It’s kind of a beautiful idea, wanting to get out and explore, and hoping the artistic and cultural dynamic of the city will rub off on you. It’s a place with a lot of community feeling, but in winter it’s also an incredibly monstrous, grey, miserable place.” That sense of abandonment and ruin is oppressive in Berlin Syndrome, with the housebound Clare turning her glazed stare to the window as the seasons change. The excitement of the city seems long gone.
Regardless of setting or style, Shortland has exclusively, opted for women protagonists in her films. But what about the dearth of women on the other side of the camera? “We have a history in Australia of women making films. In the 1970s and 1980s, Gillian Armstrong and Jane Campion were setting up situations to give young women access to film. So it just seemed natural to me. It never seemed like something I couldn’t do. And now I see how privileged I was as a young woman to feel that because I’m not sure it’s the case any more.
“We thought gender had been addressed, but as soon as we stopped funding particular places for young women at film schools, they stopped being taken. The second we stopped yelling and stamping our feet, there was a backslide.”
Shortland is a touch more optimistic about the opportunities presented by TV. “The stories we’re telling in television are naturally oriented toward women’s stories. Our stories are often not epic, but start small and build. And I think TV is a wonderful platform for that.” She is in preproduction on a mini-series called The Monaro – a female-oriented crime drama based on real Australians of the early 19th century. If Berlin Syndrome is anything to go by, Shortland’s dedication to her women protagonists – their ferocity, vulnerability, and their sexual appetites – will make it an intriguing watch.
Berlin Syndrome is released in the UK on 9 June.
The US talkshow host monologue about the latest atrocity has become an accepted genre in modern media, traditionally praised for going viral and being passionate, unscripted, straight from the heart.
James Corden is doing his US TV chatshow in London this week and his introductory piece to camera, talking about the terrorist outrages here, was like this, but calm and measured. Actually, it was the perfect response. Corden’s erstwhile rather big-headed reputation did once turn me off a bit. But the glorious magic of his Carpool Karaoke encounter with Michelle Obama was a genuinely great moment in the history of television: spontaneous, lovable and fun.
Everyone talks about Corden’s triumphs: Gavin and Stacey; One Man, Two Guvnors on stage. But there’s something else I treasure, which everyone else seems to overlook: his tremendous performance in Mike Leigh’s 2002 film All or Nothing, playing Rory, the son of the unhappy minicab driver Phil, portrayed by Timothy Spall. Rory’s behaviour and relationship with his dad bring them both to a terrible crisis. Nowadays, Corden is a more svelte figure and his acting career has taken him in new directions. Can he maybe interview Leigh on the programme?

People are always mocking the high-flown language of wine buffs. Now researchers from the University of Adelaide have discovered that actually putting all the absurd adjectives on the label makes the wine taste better.
Test subjects reported having a more pleasurable oenophile experience when they could read all about the flinty mineral top notes. Of course, this may not be simply a parable of vanity, and why can’t the pleasures of arcane language mesh with those of wine? But I’m surprised no TV show has tried to reproduce author Stephen Potter’s classic winemanship label ploy to disconcert experts.
You don’t try to pass off cheap rubbish as something good. Not at all. You go out and get something absolutely superb for a hundred quid. Then you secretly decant it into an empty Tesco plonk bottle. You serve it to your wine-expert mates with a rueful, self-deprecatory shrug, saying: “I’m so sorry I can only offer you this rubbish.” Then you watch them taste the wine and stare at the label in shock as their world comes silently crashing down.

I have tried drawing up the worst five moments in the history of the special relationship. In roughly descending order, they are:
1. The United States’ declaration of independence, 1776.
2. President James Madison’s declaration of war on Britain over the naval blockade of Napoleonic France, 1812.
3. The US ordering Britain out of Suez, by putting pressure on the pound and refusing dollar loans for oil, 1956.
4. Britain refusing to send troops to Vietnam, 1964.
5. The US invading Grenada, without quite getting round to consulting its head of state, ie Her Majesty the Queen, 1983.
Of course, the relationship has survived all this but the list will have to be revised to include a new, uniquely horrible moment: the sheer indignity of President Trump’s son, Donald Trump Jr, weighing in this week to back up his dad’s insults to London mayor Sadiq Khan. He brayed on Good Morning America: “Maybe he [Khan] should do something to fix the problem rather than just sit there and pretend there isn’t one.” This shrill intervention easily knocks out Grenada. Isn’t there a golf course that needs Trump Jr’s attention?
“If you had told me that three hours of Norwegian peace negotiations, with the Palestine Liberation Organisation thrown in, would be a Broadway hit and go to the National and the West End, I wouldn’t have put money on that,” laughs JT Rogers.
But this unpromising scenario has brought the American playwright to the National Theatre in London to attend auditions for its staging of Oslo, with a London commercial transfer already booked, before he flies back to New York for the Tony awards, where his play has seven nominations.
Oslo tells the previously unexplored story behind the peace process that led, in September 1993, to Israeli prime minister Yitzhak Rabin and PLO chairman Yasser Arafat shaking hands in Washington, with President Bill Clinton beaming between them like a marriage celebrant. This moment was brokered by Terje Rød-Larsen, the central character of the play, a Norwegian diplomat who arranged secret meetings between Israeli and Palestinian representatives.
Although the Scandinavian initiative showed the shape of a possible future two-state solution, the hopeful photo on the White House lawn now looks like science fiction, as the Israeli and Palestinian positions have widened and entrenched.
“It’s amazing how the historical memory deletes quite big details,” Rogers says. “In New York, you could literally feel the audience going: ‘Oh, the PLO! I’d forgotten them!’ So you wonder if, in a few years, audiences at a play will be going: ‘al-Qaida!’ or ‘Isis!’”
If contemporary American playwrights ever formed a cabinet, Rogers would be a shoo-in for secretary of state. All his major plays deal with foreign affairs: The Overwhelming (2006) dramatises the Rwandan genocide and Blood and Gifts (2010) explores the wars in Afghanistan. He has also written plays set in Spain, Germany and now Norway.
“It was never a plan,” says Rogers. “But, in hindsight, it makes sense. I’m the child of 60s Californian liberals and my father has just retired as a professor of political science. So international relations were sort of the talk at the dinner table. And we lived overseas, in south-east Asia, for a few years when I was a child. But it’s more that these are the subjects I’m interested in, rather than: wouldn’t this make a great play?”
He has found, though, that geographical distance is liberating: “I see that actors are often released when they put on a disguise or a character far away from their own background. And I think the further away that people or environments are from me, the more I find it accessible. If you asked me to write a play about a guy in his mid-40s who lives in Brooklyn, I’d worry about doing something phony.”
Oslo – like Blood and Gifts and The Overwhelming – discusses serious political ideas within the form of a thriller, and this is Rogers’s own diplomatic negotiation with the audience: “I think the structures of genre get short shrift from critics. But there’s something in thrillers, melodramas and even screwball comedy – depending on the project – that give you an underpinning that is wonderfully useful for holding a script together. You can take structural elements from a genre but then do something completely different with them. I think there’s something very satisfying and compelling about experiencing a well-told tale, regardless of what the subject matter or ideas are.”
What diplomats might call the Rogers doctrine – using popular forms to put unpopular material on stage – may be rooted in his path to drama; unlike most younger American dramatists, he didn’t do an MA in playwriting, but started as an actor. “A lot of what’s coming out of the university courses is suspect to me. It often feels like plays for other people who write plays, as opposed to Sam and Steve who have just had a baby and they want a night out. We have to entertain people first and then we can do all the other things.”
As preparation for writing Oslo, Rogers chose, counter-intuitively, to read Noël Coward comedies: “I was looking for that lightness of touch and pace across the stage, although with very different material.”
Oslo reminded me of Stoppard’s Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead, in that we see a familiar narrative from a surprising angle. “I hadn’t thought of that. But that’s right: I’ll take any Stoppardian parallel. I’d wanted to write about the Middle East, and just hadn’t been able to get close enough to the Israeli or Palestinian side and then there was suddenly, in Clintonian terms, this third way.”
As he wrote, he realised that the Norwegian perspective has the advantage of being a neutral route through an issue to which audiences are likely to bring strong prejudices in either direction.
Rogers interviewed Larsen at length, but spoke to only a few of the other participants: “I stalked the characters, through memoirs and TV interviews. But the lines on stage are all mine; there’s no verbatim. My rule, though, was that no one expresses views that they didn’t hold.”
Playwrights of bio-dramas about living people dread accusations of falsification or betrayal. Has that happened? “One person reportedly didn’t like it but had the wisdom or good manners not to say it to me. As far as I know, no one has been offended or pissed off by the play. I think that’s partly because I tend only to put on stage people I either like or admire. And, in the cases where I changed people, they seem to have accepted that it was to make the complexity of the arguments more theatrical. In some way, to honour the people you have to violate them.”
Rogers jokes that “I’m not really star-struck by actors but I am star-struck by public policy officials”, and Oslo has filled his autograph book. At one Broadway performance, the entire 1,000-seat theatre was booked for the United Nations. They didn’t react to a joke about Arafat that generally works well because, Rogers suspects, “they all either knew him or were terrified of being seen laughing at him”. Bill Clinton, a keen theatre-goer, has presumably been? “Not yet. But very close confidants of both Bill and Hillary have told me that they are working fervently to get them to the play.”
Until Oslo, Rogers’s work has tended to premiere, unusually for an American writer, in London: “You have a strong tradition of political or state-of-the-nation plays, and we in America just don’t. Until recently, a lot of my colleagues thought I was English because of the type of plays I write and because my whole career was really started here. People even asked me why Oslo wasn’t opening here first.”
From his double perspective, Rogers throws out a thought that would keep a university drama course going for a year: “Bad American plays are invariably inward-looking and solipsistic, and the bad British plays are usually incredibly stilted, didactic and lecturing. Somewhere in the middle lies great theatre. As a theatre-goer and -maker, I just tend more towards the English style.”
Arthur Miller and Stephen Sondheim both concluded, late in their careers, that they preferred having work done in London because New York theatre seemed to be driven by economic rather than artistic considerations. But Rogers is more optimistic: “We do seem to be having a renaissance. I spent years railing against the state of American culture but recently I’ve wondered if maybe I should stop yelling. Four new American plays about politics are up for the Tony this year.”
At the Tony awards, there are likely to be a lot of anti-Trump jokes and speeches, and the current presidency seems an obvious subject for Rogers. “I haven’t been asked formally. But, informally, I’m the guy people ask to write about politics. There are stories that would be better poems, plays, movies, documentaries or whatever. With Trump, you’d need to find out what the play would be. At the moment, Saturday Night Live skits and Twitter are the best forum for it. Maybe down the line there’ll be a bit of distance. But you have to find the story; you can’t just set out to write a play about politics or it would be as boring as hell.”
• Oslo opens at the National Theatre, London SE1, on 5 September before transferring to the Harold Pinter theatre, London SW1, from 30 September.
Bijan Sheibani’s exuberant production begins and ends with a party in which audience members dance with the cast or even go on stage for a quick trim. That seems entirely in keeping with the spirit of Inua Ellams’s invigorating play, which shows how barbers’ shops, run by and catering for African men, combine the roles of pub and political platform, social centre and soapbox. It makes the average white British male’s belief that you simply go in for a haircut look decidedly dreary.
Ellams switches between six shops in two continents on the day in April 2012 when Chelsea beat Barcelona in the Champions League semi-final. The main focus is on a London barber’s where a family drama is played out as a young hairdresser discovers the truth about his father’s imprisonment. It is, however, typical that the place is also a talk shop where cutters and clients debate the propriety of using the N-word, the subversive power of pidgin English and the supposed differences between black and white women.
The action embraces five other shops spread across Africa, but what is fascinating is how Ellams finds common threads in the geographical diversity: not only soccer, but a recurrent obsession with fathers and sons and even the same barroom anecdote told with local variations. What also hits one is the way the barber’s becomes a place where African men can safely let off steam. In Kampala, they talk about the way discrimination against gays is hitting Ugandan exports. In Harare, we see a generational clash about popular music.
Most telling is the rage of a man in Johannesburg who argues that Mandela failed his people and that the perpetrators of apartheid got off scot-free.
The role of women in African life is hardly touched on and you have to be pretty nimble to keep abreast of so many stories. But the acting is first-rate and Sheibani skilfully uses music and dance – especially a number in which the barbers flourish their towels like toreadors’ capes – to knit the episodes together.
Each man in his time plays many parts, and there are fine contributions from Cyril Nri as a patriarchal London Nigerian, Patrice Naiambana as a jaundiced Jo’burger and Hammed Animashaun as a randy youngster who never allows racial politics to impede his sex life. Co-produced by the National Theatre, Fuel and West Yorkshire Playhouse, it’s a richly enjoyable play in which the barber’s acts as a debating chamber where you shed your locks but regain your identity.
• At the Dorfman, National Theatre, London, until 8 July. Box office: 020-7452 3000. Then at West Yorkshire Playhouse, Leeds, 12-29 July. Box office: 0113-213 7700.
Guatemala’s Lake Atitlán is famed for its striking scenery: cobalt-blue waters fringed with dramatic volcanic cones and scattered Mayan villages. And now the site is about to add a rather different attraction to its shores. The lakeside community of Santa Catarina Palopó is embarking on an ambitious project to turn itself into a monumental piece of artwork, with a view to generating an alternative source of tourism income for locals.
It’s the brainchild of Harris Whitbeck, a Guatemalan journalist and believer in art as an agent of social change, whose family has links to the lake going back three generations. When he saw how renowned Dutch artists Jeroen Koolhaas and Dre Urhahn had transformed the Rio de Janeiro favela of Vila Cruzeiro with vibrant colour, the idea of Pintando Santa Catarina Palopó was born.
“Studies show that if the physical environment of a community is improved, there’s a positive impact on inhabitants. There’s an increased sense of belonging, crime levels fall and new businesses open up,” Whitbeck said.
The community, from the mayor down, was on board from the start and the project has created a greater connection between the villagers – many of whom only speak their native language, Kaqchikel – and the Spanish-speaking “weekenders” from Guatemala City. Lidia Cumes, a community leader, said: “Living in darkness can be difficult. To be surrounded by new ideas and by colour is much better. Everything can be achieved when there is will and participation, and I’m convinced that the project will create more opportunities for our village.”
One of Central America’s largest cement companies, Cementos Progreso, donated lime to manufacture paint. Whitbeck discovered that lime-based paint is cheap to produce and has anti-fungal and anti-humidity properties, as well as a thermal effect. In fact, the villagers’ ancestors were using lime-based paint 5,000 years ago.
The company also covered the fees of the Dutch duo – better known as Haas & Hahn – who ran a Color Lab workshop in November last year. A wall surrounding the football pitch was used to experiment with colours, and a plaza became a design prototype.
The community came up with the final idea with a Guatemalan design company; each family can choose from five colour combinations and a series of stencil designs, all based on their traditional huipil tunic, and painting will start this week. There are 800 houses and enough paint for 100 so far, so an “adopt-a-house” scheme is being set up. Groups of up to five visitors, who pledge $500, will be assigned a house and can help the family paint it (hotels in the area, including Casa Palopó and Villas Santa Catarina, will offer discounts to volunteers).
Whitbeck estimates it could take up to two years to complete the project, depending on funds. The hope is that the village will attract more tourists and generate money for homestays, guides, restaurants and weavers. “The community will determine how the project evolves,” said Whitbeck. “They might create a [tour] guides’ cooperative, or weave textiles based on the new design. Painting is just the beginning.”
• More details on Facebook; to donate, go to santacatarina.gt (website goes live soon)
Phil Collins has cancelled the last two of his long-awaited comeback concerts at the Royal Albert Hall in London this week, after suffering a fall in his hotel room.
The musician was taken to hospital after the accident, which left him with “a severe gash on his head close to his eye” that required stitches, according to a statement released to the Guardian.
“Phil sends his sincere apologies and thanks to fans,” the statement reads. “He has had a fantastic week at his first [full] shows in 10 years, and cannot thank people enough for their warm reaction and is excited to return.” The pair of concerts have been rescheduled for 26 and 27 November this year.
Collins is now physically frail following years of back injuries, partly sustained through playing the drums for years. “I had back surgery a year ago. I’d messed my hips up as well,” he explained in 2016. “That was a year ago, and as of now I have a dropped foot, which means I have no feeling in it. I walk with a cane, but I’m hoping that gets better.”
The Guardian’s Michael Hann gave a four-star review to one of Collins’s Royal Albert Hall concerts this week. He wrote: “Unexpectedly, it is deeply moving to see him so completely unafraid to display the effects of his age. There is no vanity. The fact is rammed home by the drummer being his 16-year-old son, Nicholas, doing the stuff dad can’t any longer.”
What terrifies us most on the big screen is often easily linked to what’s keeping us up at night in the real world. Fears of communism, McCarthyism, nuclear war, the onset of Aids, technology and terrorism have all helped to fuel the horror genre through the years, rooting the fantastical and unsettling us for reasons we might not initially appreciate.
But then there are some cyclical pressure points, timeless back-burner fears that are pushed to the front when their effects will be most deeply felt. No one needs to be reminded that the world is facing a frightening period of division. A quick scan of any 24-hour news network provides a worrying checklist of hate, violence and regression, and it’s this increased fear of those around us that’s making certain horror films seem particularly prescient. Earlier this year, Jordan Peele’s ingenious directorial debut, Get Out, effortlessly balanced savage social commentary with scalpel-sharp suspense. And while not quite as clearly focused on a particular issue, Trey Edward Shults’ sophomore feature, It Comes at Night, makes for similarly uncomfortable and urgent viewing.
A family, living in a remote farmhouse, remain slaves to a strict process of self-quarantine. A brutal opening scene shows us exactly why: a virulent infection lingers in the wild, its origin kept from us but its damaging effects made horribly clear. Paul (Joel Edgerton), his wife, Sarah (Carmen Ejogo), and their teenage son, Travis (Kelvin Harrison Jr), have become familiar with the routine attached to their survival – but their carefully constructed world is threatened by the arrival of a desperate visitor. Will (Christopher Abbott) just wants some water to take back to his family, but Paul is wary of the potentially deadly effects of helping a stranger. Ultimately, the families decide to pool their resources and live together, entering into an uneasy and fragile domesticity.
Unlike the similar apocalyptic claustrophobia of last year’s 10 Cloverfield Lane, the tension in It Comes at Night isn’t based on whether the threat is real (that’s made clear in the opening scene), but whether it can be kept at bay and who might be bringing it home. Shults’s trick to ensure we care is a deceptively simple one: create a believable family dynamic and the rest will fall into place. With backstory kept to a bare minimum, characters are revealed via action rather than exposition, meaning that the film relies heavily on a skillful ensemble of actors to provide insight and emotional involvement with the smallest of gestures.
Edgerton, channeling a young Kurt Russell, proves again to be an immensely compelling and versatile presence, choosing naturalism over bombast, and together with Ejogo, currently experiencing something of a genre moment with this, Fantastic Beasts and Alien: Covenant, they’re a believable, empathetic couple. Abbott and his onscreen wife, the excellent Riley Keough, are also effortlessly rooted but the film easily belongs to the 22-year-old newcomer Harrison Jr, as the son plagued by strange, often sexual nightmares and torn between boyhood and maturity. He’s astonishing, the beating heart of a film that could seem too cruel without him, and he ensures a deep level of investment throughout.
Shults, building on his unsettling debut, Krisha, has created a film that acts as less of a full-blown horror and more of a grueling survival drama. He asks us to ponder how we would react in such a situation and how far our desire to help others would take us. That’s not to say that he scrimps on the scares though. Shults scatters the film with nerve-jangling night terrors, expertly realized with natural light and a terrifying grasp of the unknown. By choosing to keep details of the outside world to a minimum, he heightens the fear of a deceptively simple still shot of the surrounding forestry. Like the film’s beleaguered characters, we’re constantly on the precipice, dreading what’s to come.
And what does arrive is devastating, a climax that might prove too needlessly bleak for many – but it leaves a lingering shadow, one that’s equally poignant and alarming. It Comes at Night may disappoint some hardcore horror fans with its artful avoidance of genre pleasures, but its grim, tough-minded dystopia will prove hard to shake for many.
I have been an actor for more than 20 years now, and throughout that time there has been an ongoing discussion of diversity. Is there enough diversity in Hollywood? How many people of colour and women are enough? Does diversity sell? First it was: why are there no black films at the Oscars? Then, at the 2017 Oscars: wow, there are so many black movies at the Oscars; I guess the diversity issue is fixed?
As important as diversity in storytelling is, there is a deeper concern than representation. There are stories that must be told but that are all too often erased, even within narratives about race, or about gender. A group I work with, the African American Policy Forum (AAPF) and its co-founder, law professor Kimberlé Crenshaw, have been raising this issue for more than 20 years. Because narrative erasures happen not only on the screen, but in public discourse as well. And the consequences have been devastating, as racial justice, feminism and other social justice discourses have been needlessly divided and set at odds with each other.
In 1991, when Anita Hill came forward to accuse her former boss, US supreme court nominee Clarence Thomas, of sexual harassment, too many people saw the issue as “race v gender”. Sexual harassment was actually a claim originated by black women, but the failure to understand black women’s intersectional experience meant communities could be corralled into Thomas’s camp by his claim to be the victim of a “high-tech lynching,” while Hill was left unrecognised as a victim of discrimination. Thomas alone was seen as being in need of defence; and women and people of colour suffered as a result.
Crenshaw and Luke Charles Harris, co-founders of AAPF, have been fighting against that kind of intersectional erasure and structural inequality ever since Hill’s testimony. Their recent work has been to highlight the consequences of police violence against black bodies as another example of a frame that excludes women and girls of colour. Their work shows how typical media representations of police violence foreground men, and so do efforts to seek accountability for that violence. Erasures in the media send messages that certain lives matter less. It is a message that some of us will not accept.
Last year I partnered with Crenshaw and AAPF to host a Say Her Name event in Hollywood. The Say Her Name movement is part of AAPF’s campaign to raise awareness about black women killed by police who suffer from other forms of state violence. As their work points out, most of us know the names and stories of Michael Brown, Eric Garner and other black men killed by police – and we should. But we don’t know the names Meagan Hockaday or Natasha McKenna, Tanisha Anderson or Shelley Frey. Black women die at the hands of police, too, and their killers just as often go free. Unfortunately, because we don’t know the names of these women or their stories, we don’t show up for them.
The US isn’t alone. Around the world violence against women is trivialised, erased and forgotten, and it seems that those in power with the means to protect and save vulnerable women and raise awareness for their suffering are too often silent. Imagine, though, if that silence were broken. How powerful would it be for Hollywood to tell the stories of one of the many black women killed by police? Imagine how much momentum could be generated to effect change and save the lives of other vulnerable black women.
How powerful would it be for Hollywood to tell the stories of one of the many black women killed by police?
Taking intersectionality seriously means breaking through the frame that says “all black people are men, and all women are white”. It means highlighting black women’s anomalous role in US politics – as a group that, despite suffering extremely high rates of poverty and violence, both intimately and at the hands of the state, still participates in the political process at higher rates than virtually any other group. Moreover, they steadfastly embrace policies that eschew the scapegoat politics now flourishing in the US, and stand against the divisions some now seek to reinforce, including by violence.
What then do black women need from media? It isn’t simply greater numbers of black people or women in the movies. Black women and girls need the media to uncover how they are often subject to multiple forms of discrimination, even as they manage to embrace a vision of the future that includes more than just themselves.
Next week, on 10 June, at Columbia University, AAPF will celebrate 20 years of being champions for black women and intersectional feminism. I believe that it is time for the rest of us, from policymakers to Hollywood actors, directors and producers, to follow their lead and focus on the voices and stories of women of colour. Now more than ever they deserve to have their stories told.
This book begins like a pitch for a TV hospital drama: “The consultant stamps down the wheel lock of Karin’s hospital bed. In a loud voice he addresses the intensive care nurses, who are cutting open her tank top and sports bra: Pregnant woman, week thirty-three, child reportedly in good health, started feeling ill about five days ago with flu-like symptoms, fever, cough, slight shortness of breath yesterday which was put down to her pregnancy, condition severely deteriorating today, acute respiratory difficulties, arrived at the maternity unit about an hour ago.” Cue title, cue backstory, cue human tragedy as human entertainment.
There will always be books about extreme and painful experiences: without them literature would be reduced to so much analytical philosophy, avant-garde poetry and Janet and John books. The recent craze for autofiction – novels based on real events and episodes – is only the latest manifestation of our terrible hunger for the real. But tastes have changed. Where once we gorged on misery memoirs – consuming in vast quantities the work of Dave Pelzer and Frank McCourt and all the other purveyors of tragic life stories – we now treat ourselves to delicious little fancies of a more literary kind. The everyday tragedy of the shopping mall Greggs has given way to the fin-de-siècle grief of a high street Patisserie Valerie.
Tom Malmquist is a Swedish poet whose novel about a Swedish poet’s struggle to cope with his wife Karin’s death from leukaemia during childbirth, his struggle to raise their daughter, Livia, and then his struggle to come to terms with his father’s death are based on Malmquist’s own experiences. Would it matter if you didn’t know that In Every Moment We Are Still Alive – a beautiful tale, basically, about a young couple who dreamed of becoming “a sort of happier version of Sylvia Plath and Ted Hughes” – is a lightly fictionalised true story about Malmquist and his late wife? Of course it would.
Of course it shouldn’t. The art of the novel lies in its very artfulness, not in its fidelity to facts. The truth we seek from fiction, as everyone knows, is a kind of intimate truth, not a factual or referential truth. And yet as more books are published and more stories get told, we increasingly seek out those writers who promise to give us something more than mere fiction. We want books made out of lives. We want to be able to identify the narrative “I” with the authorial “I”, so that we can all become a part of a universal “we”. We want our authors to suffer. We want them to bleed. We want to believe that we’re all in this together.
The value of Malmquist’s book is that it retains a trace of true human presence – but not his own
Written in the hectic first-person present tense, In Every Moment We Are Still Alive – as its title suggests – can at times seem insistent, a novel-length elegy. But what makes it arresting is that Malmquist clearly understands that a voice most profoundly expressing pain is often a voice refusing to register pain. At its best, in Henning Koch’s translation, the prose is a low drone of low affect, in which insignificant details, memories and awkward incidents crowd in while the terrible events of the drama play out in a language incomprehensible to the participants. “I sit on one of the office chairs and look down at the fabric, light blue denim.” “I’ve learnt to like the plastic floor in the corridors at Karolinska, smooth and white as if covered in condensation, like artificial ice. As a child I wanted the whole of Huddinge to be covered in ice. I was fascinated by the Ice Age, I fantasised about a new Ice Age so I could skate everywhere.” “Your wife has lactic acidosis, serious hypoglycaemia, low blood pressure despite medication, haemodynamically worsening despite medication, we now also suspect lysis of the red blood cells. Sorry, I didn’t follow a word of that, I say.”
The argument in favour of the current popular autofictional and memoir mode is that it is not exploitative or egocentric, but rather reveals the humanity in us all. The value of Malmquist’s book is precisely that it retains a trace of true human presence – carefully preserved by the author, but not his own.
Next to the pepper mill is a tube of Herbamare herb salt, it’s almost empty. I preferred flaked salt or smoked cod roe on my breakfast eggs, but not Karin, there wasn’t a morning when she didn’t portion out some Herbamara herb salt by tapping her finger against the tub. […] There’s a white, eroded patch on the green label, from Karin’s finger. I put the tube in a transparent bag, seal it with freezer tape and put it in a plastic container in which I keep everything that matters to me.
• In Every Moment We Are Still Alive by Tom Malmquist (Sceptre, £14.99). To order a copy for £12.74, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.
Here is this week’s playlist of songs picked by a reader from your suggestions after last week’s callout. Read more about how our weekly Readers recommend series works at the end of the piece.
We start with the familiar: the Pretenders’ Private Life. Howls of dismay are probably emanating from all points. Grace Jones’s cover was icily majestic and smoothly controlled, but Chrissie Hynde’s original growls with contempt and unbridled scorn. This was a case of dub crossing the Atlantic from Jamaica, being adapted for use in a rock song and then being sold back to the Jamaicans. Result.
Tam Lyn (Retold) is another crosscultural exercise. The Imagined Village featuring Benjamin Zephaniah make all the right noises behind this reinvention of one of Britain’s oldest folk tales. Eliza Carthy pops in occasionally to add her versatile voice to Zephaniah’s ominous, modernist narrative.
Still in the UK, Leicester’s Vibronics serve up a molten rhythm that binds the echoing vaults of If a No Jah Dub like dark matter. Most of the band’s work is digitally produced, yet they have played acoustic sets at festivals.
Now to Poland, where Hatti Vatti feat Sara Brylewska offer up Different Music. Hatti Vatti is guitarist Piotr Kalinski, a man noted for his collaborations. This song’s edgy beats and spectral echoes complement Brylewska’s dreamy, almost distracted vocals.
Killing Joke’s Turn to Red EP brought them to the attention of such luminaries as John Peel and John Lydon, who set about championing the group’s work. The title track originally contained a locked groove that endlessly repeated the word “red”. Fortunately, this dub version of this song – perfect for today’s list – does no such thing. Although clattered and pounded by heavy dub effects, we are released at the end of the song.
Back to the US for Warpaint, with Disco/Very (Trevor Jackson Dub). This song’s rigid rhythm is thumped out by drums and bass that allow the vocals to stretch and collapse before re-forming, weaving in and out of some very smart guitar work. There’s a trippy sensibility at work, reminiscent of older musical forms, while the whole thing still manages to sound futuristic.
Brooklyn Funk Essentials’ Istanbul Twilight is a dubbed-up Anatolian stroll in the company of Turkish clarinetist Hüsnü Şenlendirici. This New York-based collective seem at home steering the beats around foreign instruments; equally, the man on the clarinet doesn’t appear to leave his comfort zone. It’s a heady whiff of Asia Minor, coffee and spices.
Inyaki Yarritu’s dub experiments earned him credit in Spain and notably in his own Basque region. His impressive track record followed him to London, where he began a studio project known as Basque Dub Foundation. As BDF, his El Secuestro del Dub wears its Augustus Pablo influence on its sleeve, and is all the better for it, as Pablo’s Middle Eastern licks meld well with Yarritu’s Iberian temperament.
Next we have Colourbox’s Baby I Love You So, which raids Jamaican music’s 70s spaghetti western fixation. Somehow, the band made a hit single from such disparate properties as a yearning-for-love vocal, ricocheting pistol shots, sampled movie dialogue and a memorable bassline. It was an adventurous record for the mid-80s, and still jumps off the turntable.
CCTV by LV feat Dandelion creeps stealthily through a squelching soundscape that oozes paranoia. We are in a modern city, where authoritarian eyes track our every move, yet sardonic humour runs through the song. It conjures images of darkened streets where men in Burberry trenchcoats glance warily over their shoulders.
Ursula Rucker’s Ring the Alarm takes ill-fated Tenor Saw’s dancehall classic by the theme and runs with it – towards us. Shouting “Feck” at us. Brandishing angry slogans as if they were molotov cocktails. This woman has something to say, and she knows how to make you listen. You feel you’d better listen. And all the while she circles Saw’s shimmering lyrics like a predator.
Fat Freddy’s Drop send us Russia all the way from New Zealand. This is a beautifully sung skankalong heartbeat rhythm that is almost overladen with hooks. These chaps can seriously play. Added to the mix is a plethora of dub effects that spice up an already rich concoction.
And to demonstrate that dub is welcome everywhere music is played, we retire to bucolic Cheltenham to polka to a reggae beat. Just think of an instrument, any instrument, and you will most likely hear it stepping in somewhere to take a turn in Edward II and the Red Hot Polkas’ Bjorn Again Polka. This is one record I’d like to morris dance to.
Not all songs appear on the Spotify playlist as some are unavailable on the service.
The new theme will be announced at 8pm (BST) on Thursday 8 June. You have until 11pm on Monday 5 June to submit nominations.
Here is a reminder of some of the guidelines for readers recommend:
Fans of Theresa May’s three-word soundbites will be disappointed to learn that David Schneider’s new podcast Strong & Stable (Deezer Originals/iTunes) isn’t actually a tribute to her well-worn catchphrase.
Instead, it’s a gloriously fun take on political goings-on in which no one’s safe from mockery. “The election basically boils down to a choice between loads of free money for everything you want and sitting in your own wee for hours when you’re old,” says Schneider. Another time, he takes aim at the foreign secretary. “Boris Johnson’s been busy being hidden from view as much as possible, surfacing only rarely to call Jeremy Corbyn a ‘mugwump’, the oddest thing anyone’s called him apart from this country’s next prime minister,” he laughs. “Oh God, I hate being neutral and impartial.”
At times, things get a bit Ben Eltonon a Thatcher rant circa 1985, with sharp quips coming at speed. Then again, there are so many people to mock, Schneider, along with LBC’s James O’Brien and comedians Josie Long and Bob Mills need to talk fast. Much ground is covered, but one thing everyone agrees on is that a dire political situation makes for great comedy: citing the contrast between the pantomime of the Thatcher years with Obama’s presidency when “no one knew what to be angry about” as evidence. People told Long she’d have a lot of material under the Conservative government. “But I’d rather have schools and hospitals,” she says.
Dom Joly takes the chair for the latest instalment, released on election eve. “I will be leaving a jar of jam out for when Father Corbyn comes down the chimney, while my Tory-voting neighbour has already nailed a fox carcass to his front door,” he says. Discussions about May’s hair, Corbyn’s beard and how much guest Armando Iannucci hates being called a satirist follow. It wouldn’t be a satirical podcast without a Jonathan Pie interlude and Rory Bremner pops up to bring a retro Tony Blair impression in which he makes a phone call to “Jez” and reminisces about the glory days of 1997.
Strong & Stable will run for two more episodes after the election, but there are plenty of reasons why it should stick around a bit longer.
If you like this, try … Lovett Or Leave It
I resisted The Sopranos when it started in 1999 because it came out at the same time as Analyse This, the comedy starring Robert De Niro as a mafia boss who enlists the help of a psychiatrist. I honestly thought it was a brazen attempt to create a TV spin-off based on the same premise.
Only when I received the box set of the first series did I realise my error. I watched it in practically a single sitting, pausing only for snacks and toilet breaks, curtains drawn. This was a new mode of binge, longform consumption. This was a new mode of television, one which showed the medium was capable of exceeding cinema. The Sopranos concluded 10 years ago this week, but its legacy in making the so-called small screen huge is permanent.
Starring the late James Gandolfini as Tony Soprano, the series showed a hulking New Jersey mobster who was so violently, effectively intimidating that even as a viewer you were nervous of him, felt a strange need to be in his good graces and were flush with relief at the humanity he occasionally exuded. He represented a masculinity that was morally obsolete and yet enviable in the power he was able to wield. Women were his playthings and yet powerful women broke his balls – his ogress of a mother, Livia (Nancy Marchand), like some foul creature who would eat her own children, and who despite Tony’s desperation to please her, co-conspires to have him killed. Then there was wife Carmela (Edie Falco), no Lady Macbeth, apparently not wishing to know all the grisly details of how he provided for his family, but a formidable domestic partner nonetheless. Finally, there was Dr Melfi (Lorraine Bracco), with whom he seeks therapy following a panic attack and in whose sessions his vulnerable sense of supreme male security is exposed and queried.
If The Wire, the only series worthy of being bracketed alongside The Sopranos, reminded of 19th-century novelists like Dickens and Balzac in its extensive depiction of societal layers, then The Sopranos was Shakespearean. Creator David Chase didn’t seek to examine the social and political structures of New Jersey the way The Wire creator David Simon did Baltimore. His creation was of a different order. Tony Soprano is a huge creation, tragic, comic, a man of appalling vice yet solemnly bound by his code, awe-inspiring and deeply flawed, excessively human, inhuman, a giant orb around whom minor but brilliantly conceived characters revolve, including protege Christopher, the ever-sensitive Paulie Walnuts and Silvio, played with deadpan excellence by Steven Van Zandt, aka Bruce Springsteen sidekick Little Steven.
The Sopranos was preceded by the 1990 Martin Scorsese film Goodfellas and features prominent actors from that film including Bracco (Melfi) and Michael Imperioli (Christopher). It also shares its nervous mixture of comic bonhomie and sudden, violent murder, either calculated or out of sheer rage. The Sopranos, too, has a jukebox for a soundtrack, eschewing the emotional prompts of incidental music; it’s as if to say that in these postmodern times, the mafia-as-entertainment is a firmly embedded part of popular culture. The occasional Godfather references are a reminder that the series is conscious of its genre. What’s more, we are implicated as viewers, via Dr Melfi. Her combination of proper moral contempt laced with shameful fascination reflects the viewer’s own ambivalence as we sit in thrall to this series about the everyday doings of very violent men.
The compromised Melfi aside, there are no regular representatives of dogged virtue in The Sopranos, no good cop endeavouring to bring down the bad man. And yet, a strong moral sense lurks at its heart. Take the episode in which Melfi is raped and her assailant walks free. Melfi knows, we know, just say the word to Tony and he would have the asshole squashed like a bug. We can practically hear the temptation in her to do it shrieking as Tony asks what’s the matter with her. We’re shrieking for her to do it. But she resists. Rightly. To have done otherwise would have crossed a line, downgraded the show for a moment of cheap catharsis.
Despite issues unresolved in his domestic life, Tony Soprano prevails against all his foes, ratty irritants like Richie Aprile and his own cousin, Tony Blundetto (played by Steve Buscemi, who also directed the Pine Barrens episode, a Coens-esque, snowbound treasure). But what becomes of him? The series finale, with its abrupt cut to black, has confounded, intrigued and enraged viewers.
David Chase explained it as follows. “The whole show had been about time in a way, and the time allotted on this Earth. Tony was dealing in mortality every day. He was dishing out life and death. He was getting everything he wanted, that guy, but he wasn’t happy. All I wanted to do was present the idea of how short life is and how precious it is. The only way I felt I could do that was to rip it away.” And so, bada-bing, just like a whacking, The Sopranos was done. But the range and capability of TV drama was expanded forever.
Don Winslow made his name chronicling Mexico’s drug wars in epic, sweeping novels that detailed American complicity in the mayhem south of the border. Now he has written a big, sprawling novel about dirty cops in the New York police department – The Force – which splashes into the debate about race and policing in the United States. They are venal and violent, steal drug money, break bones and snuff out lives. They lie, cheat, betray and scorn Black Lives Matter.
“Are there racist cops? Absolutely,” says Winslow, settling into an interview at a beachside diner near Los Angeles. “There are guys out there who are just overt racists.”
Which makes it sound like the author should beware next time he visits New York. In fact, it’s the opposite. Winslow could probably double-park a Hummer and not get a ticket. Cops will love this book, and love Winslow. The boys in blue of The Force are not villains, they’re heroes. They’re smart and brave but also flawed and wounded souls you root for even as they go astray. Hollywood has already snapped up the rights.
“I have a great deal of admiration for NYPD. I think most of the cops are trying to do a good job,” Winslow says. “Is there systemic corruption? No question. Often we the public have expectations of police that are both contradictory and in some ways impossible. We want perfect safety at the same time as we want absolute individual privacy and rights.”
Civil rights-loving liberals are especially culpable, says Winslow, who counts himself a left-leaning Guardian reader. “[There’s] a certain kind of hypocrisy or at least double standard about some of these things because we want to be safe. So sometimes we would turn a blind eye to cops taking shortcuts. And cops feel this intensely. They feel that pressure, they feel caught in that bind.”
In 20 novels, mostly mysteries and thrillers, Winslow, who lives near California’s border with Mexico, has specialised in all sorts of binds, not least the drug war – a folly, as he sees it, which has morally corrupted the US and unleashed hell across Mexico. His characters often start out wanting to do the right thing only to end up contaminated. The style is hardboiled; short paragraphs, graphic scenes, rapid-fire dialogue that’s close to the mould set by the likes of Elmore Leonard, Richard Price and George Pelecanos. He has also not shied away from controversial opinions either that often skewer both the left and right sides of the political debate, such as when he penned an op-ed for Esquire that claimed the push for legal marijuana exacerbated the drug war and the cartel violence.
In person, Winslow is gracious, soft-spoken and self-deprecating to a fault. A trim figure, he wears jeans, slip-on shoes and an untucked shirt. Daily hikes punctuate a gruelling writing schedule, which starts at 5.30am and wraps around 12 hours later. It’s paid off: he has won prizes and rave reviews from the New York Times, Stephen King, Lee Child and Michael Connelly.
The Force, he says, is the book he always wanted to write. He interviewed rookies and veterans and dedicated it to law enforcement personnel murdered in the line of duty during the writing, their names running over three pages. Set in his native New York with an Irish American protagonist from Staten Island, there is a hint of alter ego in detective sergeant Denny Malone, who leads an elite unit in north Manhattan.
Winslow’s research identified flawed recruitment and training that gives lethal power to people who should never have been police – these are the ones who shoot fleeing people in the back, he says. He also encountered unconscious and semi-conscious bias, which results, for instance, in cops overestimating the age and therefore potential danger of black youths. “In a number of these shootings what you’re looking at is a fear reaction. Black Lives Matter definitely has a point. The numbers don’t lie in this regard. I’m glad the organisation exists.”
But BLM activists should broaden their focus, he says. “Are cops racist? Sure, as racist as the society they come from. The tragedy is that the police and inner city communities should be allies. Who suffers most from violent crime in America? Inner city communities. Who has a personal and professional interest in lowering that violence? Cops.”
Winslow favours gun control, drug legalisation and greatly reduced incarceration rates for non-violent crimes, for which he has received rightwing hate mail and death threats.Cracking down on immigrants revolts him. “The thought that you’re going to start doing mass arrests and deportations is vile. It’s deeply personal to me. These are our friends, our neighbours.”
He disdains Trump. “It makes me so fucking angry that this guy describes Mexicans as rapists and killers.” He shrugs off the observation that some of his own books depict Mexicans as rapists and murderers. He’s a crime writer, he says. He adds that his books that are set in the US, show Americans – of all backgrounds – doing nasty things.
He snorts at the proposed wall, saying it won’t curb drugs because most flow through legal entry points in trailer trucks. “You can build the biggest, best, most beautiful wall – it doesn’t matter if the gates are open, and the gates are open 24/7.” Greater interdiction, in any case, would only increase prices and cartel revenues. “If Trump was really looking for Mexicans to pay for the wall he should put in a call to Sinaloa. They’d probably build it for him.”
Intercepting the flow of guns and profits south would have more impact than targeting drug supply, he says. “We’ve been doing that officially for 50 years and what’s the result? Drugs are more plentiful, cheaper and more potent.”
Winslow also thinks Joaquín “El Chapo” Guzmán, now jailed in New York, will spend the rest of his days locked up but make a plea deal, trading information for better conditions and avoiding a trial. His absence will have negligible effect on Sinaloa. “It’s like shooting the oldest, biggest elephant in the herd – sad for the elephant but it has no effect on the herd.” (Winslow used to be a safari guide in Africa.)
The Power of the Dog chronicled the drug war from the 1960s to the early 2000s. Winslow considered it a one-off plunge into Mexico’s horrors. Then the horrors, unbelievably, got worse. So he wrote The Cartel, published in 2015, bringing the story up to date, ending with the death of a Guzmán-type figure. Only for the violence to again worsen, with ever more baroque, grisly details. So Winslow is now working on a third book, as yet untitled, to make it a trilogy.
20th Century Fox has optioned The Force, with James Mangold set to direct it, and The Cartel, with Ridley Scott in the director’s chair and Leonardo DiCaprio mooted as the lead. Winslow has had mixed fortunes with Hollywood, starting with The Life and Death of Bobby Z. “It was made into a film. Unfortunately.” Even the late Paul Walker, who starred in it, called it a stinker. “No one’s seen it. It went straight to DVD.” Oliver Stone directed the film version of Savages which some, but not all, critics panned.
The experiences left the author wary. In the next adaptations he will insist on “conversations” but not backseat drive. “As a novelist you have to realise that the novel and the film have to live separate lives. They’re just different, like your kids, even if they look alike.”
Sitting alone in a room day after day conjuring the darkest human impulses takes a toll, Winslow says. “I used to joke that my next book would be about puppies that have lost a chew toy and everywhere they went people were nice and gave them things until they found the chew toy.” Sweet. But with Winslow’s name on the jacket, you’d have to wonder if something nasty awaits those puppies.
The Force is out on 20 June via William Morrow
It’s a crisp October day at the Astoria, Queens, studio where Orange is the New Black films, and Litchfield Penitentiary is covered in books. There are hundreds of them, hanging from strings lining the hallways of the prison set like some kind of art installation, or the creative decoration of a college dorm. As best I can tell from a quick walkthrough, there isn’t much cohesion to the titles – they’re mostly the sort of donated paperbacks that might you might expect lining a prison library. It’s the most striking change for the show’s fifth season.
The inmates of Litchfield have decorated the prison with books in honor of Poussey, the character played by Samira Wiley who worked at the prison library and who was killed at the end of the fourth season by one of Litchfield’s guards. The rest of the set is lined with hand-crafted memorials – and a list of demands. In the forthcoming season, Orange is the New Black will dive fully into the aftermath of the murder. It’s going to be a riot.
“Season five happens in real time – we’re experiencing a riot at the prison in real time,” says Taylor Schilling, who plays Orange’s original protagonist, Piper Chapman. More accurately, it will take place over three days, closely tracking the inmates, prison staff, and guards – several of whom have been taken hostage. The “real time” designation still suggests a certain hectic, action-packed quality to the season. (Yael Stone, who plays the sweet, ditzy, unstable Lorna Morello, compares it to 24.) It promises to be a far cry from the show’s early, rosier vision of a group of women from an array of backgrounds banding together to have wacky adventures in prison. Maybe that’s for the best.
Orange is the New Black is reportedly Netflix’s most-viewed original series. (The streaming service does not release actual numbers, so any claim it makes in this regard should be taken with several grains of salt.) In a decidedly Netflix-like business decision, it has already been renewed through season seven, and will probably remain on our screens at least through the end of the decade — but it already feels like a relic of the Obama administration.
Over the course of the show’s first, best season, Orange focused on Piper Chapman, a terrified, nominally liberal woman who slowly discovers that Litchfield’s other inmates actually have inner lives. At its best, the season used Piper as a sort of dark, narcissistic mirror for the show’s (mostly) white, wealthier viewers and their preconceptions about the criminal justice system. By now, she’s just another kooky member of the cast. Even Schilling hesitates to describe her as the show’s protagonist: “It’s not about any one person.”
The show had to eventually come to rely more heavily on its ensemble, since there were few notable names in the cast. “We came in, for the most part, as nobodies,” says Stone. The biggest stars in the season one cast were Kate Mulgrew, best known for playing Captain Janeway on Star Trek: Voyager, and American Pie’s Jason Biggs, who played Piper’s hapless fiance, Larry. Still, Stone says, “When Jenji [Kohan, the showrunner] casts you, she casts you for a reason.” Uzo Aduba, who plays “Crazy Eyes”, also lauds the show’s casting process: “I genuinely want to know what they were drinking when they cast the show, because whatever was in that water, keep it.” (Aduba has won two Emmys for her work on Orange.)
Litchfield itself is, increasingly, the focus of the show – the only way for characters like Poussey to come and go without crippling the ensemble. The otherwise spare conference room where actors have been brought in to talk to press features a huge map of the entire prison, surprising Schilling: “That’s so cool, that’s a map of the prison – I’ve never seen that from a bird’s-eye view.” Several members of the cast mention their inability to see the whole picture of the show, down to details about their own characters. (Stone was not told that Christopher, Morello’s “fiance” in the first season, was largely imaginary until she had to act through being exposed.)
Even the bricks, large, faded yellow, and decidedly industrial, seem to have been ripped straight from a poorly constructed public building. There should be a hive of activity – the set should be bustling with production assistants, writers, and producers moving in and out of offices. But there’s another shoot happening in a children’s psychiatric hospital in Rockland County, New York, where the show’s exterior scenes are filmed, and it’s hard to pin down where, exactly, anything is happening. Stone notes: “It’s a very large machine.”
If there’s one thing everyone can agree on, it’s their love of Kohan, whom they praise unanimously and unambiguously. Schilling lauds Kohan’s ability to “start a conversation”, Stone her “incredible ability to put her finger on the pulse of what’s going on”. Mulgrew, who plays the irascible Russian cook Red, is more effusive: “Do I think Jenji Kohan has an imagination that one can penetrate or describe in any way? Absolutely not. She’s an original mind.” (Both Mulgrew and Aduba praise Kohan as a “genius”.)
As the show has gone on, each member of the cast has grown more involved with prison advocacy groups (most infamously the actor Matt McGorry). It would be hard to deny that Orange has had at least some effect on white America’s awareness of the pressing need for prison reform, but it’s also not hard to link the show to Samantha Bee comparing her recent Riker’s Island visit to “a Caribbean vacation”. Aduba captures the appeal and pitfalls of the show simultaneously: “It’s a voyeuristic society.” Is prison really a place people should go for light-hearted relationship problems and melodrama? Is turning people’s very real suffering into this sort of entertainment worth it?
These are questions that are much more salient in the wake of Poussey’s death. “It’s very disturbing how relevant that season turned out to be, in ways no one could have known,” Stone says. (Being timely, of course, can cut both ways.) This is, partly, why the forthcoming season seems to put character development on the back burner. “It’s more focusing on the political implications – inside the prison and out of the prison – of an inmate takeover,” Schilling says. Aduba, who used to live around the block from the Astoria studio and recalls walking to work during the show’s first season, reflects on the intensity of the moment as a break from what the cast had felt like beforehand. “It’s like a death. That’s why I don’t want to watch this. I don’t need to watch this,” she says. “It’s hard to watch an innocent leave.”
Poussey’s innocence – and the show’s ability to balance timeliness and lightheartedness – isn’t the only dream to die before the new season of Orange is the New Black. When I visited the set in October, Schilling and Mulgrew had just finished stumping around college campuses in Ohio. Mulgrew, recalling the trip, reflected on the optimism she felt about her role on Orange, and about the world at large: “What am I about to see? Hillary Rodham Clinton will be the first female president of the United States.”
Not really a film. More an instructional video designed to be shown to teens at a Christian summer camp and earnestly discussed afterwards with a T-shirt-wearing group leader whose smiley tolerance for dissent is finite. (I incidentally imagine him resembling the church-going best buddy of the film’s hero.)
The Shack is based on a self-published Christian bestseller from 2007 by Canadian author William P Young: literal, righteously pedagogic and unsubtle – with some truly silly stuff about walking on water. Sam Worthington plays Mack, a Christian husband and father who is haunted by memories of a drunken, abusive dad whom he murdered as a kid by slipping strychnine (huge flashback closeup on the clearly labelled bottle) into his whisky. Did the police not, erm, suspect anything? Evidently not. Anyway, as a grownup he takes his family on a lakeside vacation where something terrible happens to his young daughter in a shack at the hands of a psycho killer. The cops seem as useless at detecting the culprit as they were in the days when Mack was bumping off his dad. In the depths of despair, he receives a mysterious summons to spend a redemptive crisis/visionary weekend in this very shack as the guest of God the father (Octavia Spencer), God the son (Avraham Aviv Alush) and God the Holy Spirit (Sumire Matsubara) and they all have the same kindly, enigmatic smile that in any other sort of film would mean they were playing Satan. (The Evil One is not represented.)
The Trinity talk Mack through his issues, including his judgmental rage at his daughter’s killer: a figure denoting Wisdom has a bizarre and illogical scene challenging Mack to a make a Sophie’s Choice decision about which of his surviving kids he would wish to send to hell. Huh?
The film could have been just crazy enough to be brilliant, but it winds up looking like a wet weekend at Christian Disneyland. Some potentially interesting material about forgiveness is swamped by the bad writing, cardboard characterisation and intelligence-insulting kiddiespeak theology.
“I did as you told me, you dirty little girl, and pulled myself off twice when I read your letter.” He might be celebrated for his epic and allusive novels, but James Joyce came straight to the point when writing to his partner, Nora Barnacle. This was the opening salvo of a letter from 1908 and is just one of scores of explicit missives he sent her.
A new stage show is celebrating such letters of desire sent by famous figures through the centuries, whether explicit or coded, erotic or romantic. Theatre-maker Rachel Mars is curating a selection to be read aloud in the performance which is part of the Hotbed “festival of sex” at Camden People’s theatre in London. These will be interspersed with anonymised modern messages: texts, tweets and dating app sexts.
If emails have done away with the fine art of correspondence, then what future is there for the sex letter compared with the instant gratification offered by a flurry of Tinder messages? There’s a certain sensuality that is surely lost when long-awaited love letters are replaced by auto-destructing Snapchat messages.
“The form of sexting is so immediate,” says Mars. “I am nostalgic for letters. There’s a craft that’s been lost in expressing some kind of desire or passion or bodily experience for someone else.”
Mars isn’t the only one who has recognised the power of a good letter in recent years. Blogger Shaun Usher collected correspondence for his website Letters of Note, which became a publishing phenomenon and spawned the hugely popular Letters Live events. Mars’s show will feature about 15 letters, ranging from the sublime to the “pretty grubby”. On the one hand, artist Frida Kahlo’s love letters to Diego Rivera are a thing of fecund beauty. She rhapsodises over “the green miracle of the landscape of your body”, using lush, natural imagery to convey physical desire: “There was all manner of fruits in the juice of your lips, the blood of the pomegranate, the horizon of the mammee and the purified pineapple.”
Many of the letters convey intense yearning for an absent lover, such as artist Georgia O’Keeffe’s letters to photographer Alfred Stieglitz in 1922: “Its [sic] my body that wants you and it seems to be the only thought or desire that I have – it even seems to be my only memory of you – two bodies that have fused – have touched with completeness at both ends making a complete circuit.” In another, she writes: “I am on my back – waiting to be spread wide apart – waiting for you to die with the sense of you – the pleasure of you – the sensuousness of you touching the sensuousness of me – all my body – all of me is waiting for you to touch the center of me with the center of you.”
Novelist Radclyffe Hall’s letter to Evguenia Souline in 1934 is full of the bitter sweetness of separation, too: “I wonder if you realize how much I am counting on your coming to England, how much it means to me – it means all the world, and indeed my body shall be all, all yours, as yours will be all, all mine, beloved.” You also get a sense of the precarious secrecy of a letter, here used not only to conduct an adulterous affair, but a lesbian one.
On the other hand, some sex letters are funny. Consider the desperation of Marcel Proust begging his grandfather for money so he can go once more to a prostitute to cure his “awful masturbation habit”, after he broke a chamber pot and got too flustered to perform the first time.
But it is the Joyce letters that form the skeleton of the evening, with Mars and other performers including Brian Lobel, Rachael Young and Naomi Woddis all reading his scatological messages. And they really are very rude, full of enthusiasm for anal sex, in particular. “You had an arse full of farts that night, darling,” writes Joyce to Barnacle in 1908, “big fat fellows, long windy ones, quick little merry cracks and a lot of tiny little naughty farties”.
“I was thoroughly shocked by the Joyce ones,” confesses Mars. “He’s obviously massively into anal stuff and scat. To find the specificity of pleasure in that kind of non-normative practice, over a hundred years ago … I found that delightfully shocking. It shook me out of my nonsense view of these practices being new.”
The project began when Mars was feeling depressed after the Brexit vote, far from home on an artists’ residency in upstate New York. A US academic came out on the porch and, promising to cheer her up, read Joyce’s letters aloud for half an hour. It did the trick – and now she wants to share this cheering potential. “There’s something joyous about making something personal and taboo into a communal activity,” she says. “I want to talk about bodies … I want to talk about pleasure.”
Sharing the very private form of a sex letter in public will certainly prompt sniggers. But these letters also deserve to be celebrated because they remind us of the varied ways people have always experienced sexual pleasure – and because writing about that can be its own work of art.
If your marriage has broken up and you’re at war with your ex over the children, letting cameras follow your family for 18 months seems like a brave initiative. Luckily for inquisitive viewers, this is what divorcees Steve and Terri-Anne – who aren’t on speaking terms – have decided to do. Family mediator Victoria Hewitt is on hand to manage the explosion when Steve brings his new wife to a meeting, while Terri-Anne’s mum gives her view on their breakup. Honesty all round. Hannah Verdier
Up-and-coming chefs participate in this most absurd of all food shows, vying to cook a banquet to celebrate the 140th anniversary of Wimbledon tennis championships. There is nice-enough stuff about inspiration and influence, but it’s the determinedly British titles for the dishes (“Moonlight on Reading”) that offer light relief. Tonight’s south-east heat finds executive chef Mike Reid, Michelin-starred Tom Kemble and Oklava boss Selin Kiazim cautiously bantering as they work. John Robinson
The second run of the brilliant car-set sitcom draws to a close. As it begins, John is leaving his nan at his house to wait indoors for a parcel delivery (“Sky’s on, and there’s quiche in the fridge”), before heading over to pick up Kayleigh (the excellent Sian Gibson), who has somehow locked herself in her house. Despite umpteen laughs, this is ultimately an episode that deals with some of the bigger issues outside the pair’s unusually compact world. Hannah J Davies
Seemingly as linked to the popular conception of psychiatry as the image of doctors with pointy white beards, the voices and hallucinations that came with schizophrenia have been seen for centuries as something to be combated. And yet, fresh insights are leading to a re-evaluation of exactly what comprises the condition. Tonight’s Horizon follows three people living with voices, hallucinations and paranoia. Mark Gibbings-Jones
Since last summer, thousands of British people have been rifling though family documents in search of ancestry that might preserve their EU citizenship. For some British Jews, this will necessitate reconciliation: a clause in Germany’s constitution extends citizenship to descendants of those who fled the Nazis. This film follows three people pondering this dilemma: Germany now is very far from Germany then, but little history hangs heavier. Andrew Mueller
Gus Casely-Hayford presents this new six-part series, where celebs take a close look at a favourite painting from the Tate Britain collection and then track down the place it was created. Tonight, Miriam Margolyes follows Gus’s coat of many pockets to St Ives on the trail of Alfred Wallis, the fisherman and artist whose seascapes Gus rates as highly as Turner’s. It’s scenic and insightful, though a bit more of the actual pictures wouldn’t hurt. JR
Selina Meyer is in Georgia, where she’s helping to ensure the country enjoys a free and fair democratic election. But the candidates are both crooks, as the not-exactly-incorruptible Meyer discovers first hand: “To ensure a fair election, I would like to offer you a $15m bribe …” With Meyer out of office, it will be intriguing to see how long Veep can sustain itself, but the signs here are good and there are guest turns from Stephen Fry and Sally Phillips. Jonathan Wright
The Woman on the Beach (Jean Renoir, 1947), 6am, Movies4Men
A superb combination of box-office superstar Joan Bennett and French director Renoir – who fled the German occupation to work in Hollywood and produced this weird, wonderfully melodramatic film noir. Bennett plays Peggy, the frustrated wife of famous artist Tod (Charles Bickford), whom she believes she blinded in a raging argument. The arrival of Robert Ryan’s hunky but traumatised naval officer at the local US coastguard base creates a toxic mix of sex, passion and betrayal, with Bennett acting her socks off as an achingly human femme fatale.
The Counsellor (Ridley Scott, 2013) 11.20pm, Film4
Michael Fassbender is an ambitious lawyer getting seriously out of his comfort zone when he wheedles his way into a Mexican drug-trafficking cartel. The screen glitters with A-list talent – Penélope Cruz as Fassbender’s fiancee, Brad Pitt, Javier Bardem, Cameron Diaz – and Cormac McCarthy, author of No Country for Old Men, supplies the violent, sexed-up screenplay. It’s not particularly convincing, but torridly watchable nonetheless. Paul Howlett
Tennis: The Estoril Open Coverage of the second day at the Clube de Tenis do Estoril. 1pm, Eurosport 2
Test cricket: West Indies v Pakistan The second Test continues in Bridgetown, Barbados. 2.55pm, Sky Sports 1
Champions League football: Real Madrid v Atlético Madrid The first leg of the bonus Madrid derby from the Bernabeu as the semi-finals begin. 7pm, BT Sport 2
It’s Sunday night in Waterloo, Sydney. In an old warehouse, standing on a cold concrete floor, a crowd whoops and hollers as punches are thrown. In the ring are two competitors: mouth-guards in, boxing gloves on, hair slick and shiny with sweat. They are women. And they are also film-makers.
“We’re fighting for people who can’t fight themselves,” screams the MC to loud cheers. Between bouts, a trainer with taut muscles and tattoos whispers in the ear of his charge. Another shadow-boxes, geeing up for the next fight.
I’m at the closing night of For Film’s Sake (FFS), formerly the Wow Film festival (Wow stands for World of Women), which bills itself as Australia’s longest running female film festival. Twelve amateur boxers make up the all-women Fight Night event, many of them film-makers with their own personal crusade.
The ring is a metaphor for a far bigger battle: that of widespread gender inequality in the Australian film industry, where just 16% of directors, 23% of screenwriters and 34% of producers are female.
Professional sporting promotions company Corporate Fighter, led by Josh King, provided the 12 weeks of training to get the boxers up to scratch.
“When I approached Corporate Fighter, Josh, he said to me, the girls in his gym, he doesn’t treat them as girls, he treats them as fighters,” FFS director Sophie Mathieson says, addressing the throng. “That’s the allegory I wanted to say tonight – to say that female film-makers want to be treated as film-makers.”
“We want our stories and our perspectives to be taken just as seriously, we want audiences to engage with our work with as much vigour and vim,” she adds. “And the way that you guys just got into those fights is testament to the fact that when you are immersed in a fight or in a story it doesn’t matter about gender.”
When King first got involved with boxing he thought of it as a male sport.
“It’s physical, it’s violent, it’s got a stereotype of being masculine and tough,” he tells me. “Watching those girls fight like they did tonight …” he trails off, shaking his head. “[They fought] with as much heart, not more or less, as much as any other guys I put in the boxing ring.”
Corporate Fighter has a 50-50 male-female participation rate and 80% of their employers are female, according to King. It’s good business sense: “People love watching women fight – and not in bikinis,” he says. “They want to see them fight just like the men fight.”
It’s not only in Australia where women’s boxing is taking hold. FFS Fight Night ends with the Australian premiere of Burqa Boxers, a documentary about Muslim women boxers in poverty-stricken Kolkata, India. The film pivots around Razia Shabnam who, despite growing up in a traditional Muslim family, became one of the first Indian women to work as both a boxing coach and international referee.
Burqa Boxers, directed by Alka Raghuram, is about ambition and agency: one young woman featured, Parveen Sajda, sees boxing as a route to her dream career in the police (jobs in the public sector are often reserved for athletes) and a way out of marriage and slavish domesticity.
But boxing is also about conquering fear. A girl in the documentary laments how her older brother regularly beats her; another little boy declares if his pregnant mother gives birth to a sister, he’ll throw the baby away. Sexual violence is a constant source of discussion: this is a country where a woman is reportedly raped every 15 minutes.
“I am a girl, anyone can take me any time, and rape me,” says 16-year-old Taslima Khatoon, who was rescued from the red light district aged just eight. “I can fight, I am a boxer. But I can fight with one, maybe two, maximum three people … If 10 of them attack me, then how can I protect myself?”
In Fight Night, one thread is clear: that it isn’t about winning, but about taking control, about writing the narrative, and about having as much opportunity and freedom as men. There’s a long way to go. But as the referee Shabnam states in Burqa Boxers, “Even a stumble is a step in the right direction.”
The nine authors in contention for Australia’s richest literary award, the Miles Franklin, have been announced.
The writers in line for the $60,000 cash prize were whittled down from 64 entries and hail from all around the country including New South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania and Western Australia, with one Australian author now settled in San Francisco.
The books cover modern stories and themes from assisted suicide (The Easy Way Out by Steven Amsterdam) to murder (An Isolated Incident by Emily Maguire) retirement (Extinctions by Josephine Wilson) and desire (Hold by Kirsten Tranter).
The title of one longlisted novel, Their Brilliant Careers by Ryan O’Neill, references the author whose will established the award 60 years ago: Stella Maria Sarah Miles Franklin, who wrote My Brilliant Career.
O’Neill’s book follows the invented biographies of 16 Australian writers.
“This year’s longlist, unusually, is nearly all contemporary and urban,” said the Mitchell Librarian at the State Library of NSW, Richard Neville, on behalf of the judging panel. “The longlist is a reflective one, as novelists grapple with the creation and remembrance of history, the contests of urban relationships, and domestic complexity, trauma and insight from the proximity of mortality.
“The diversity of these voices suggests the depth and strength of Australian writing, and its resistance to easy categorisation. Each of these novels brings a distinct voice to the Australian experience which refuses conventional description.
“Strong narratives drive these stories, which foreground an Australian perspective on questions exploring the making and understanding of identity through the writing of history, the constructions of media, the imminence of death, or the immediacy of family.”
The Australian journalist Murray Waldren, Sydney-based bookseller Lindy Jones, book critic Melinda Harvey and Emeritus Professor Susan Sheridan join Neville on the judging panel.
The shortlisted finalists will be revealed on 18 June, with the winner announced in September. Last year’s Miles Franklin award was won by a very surprised AS Patric “after many, many years of absolute obscurity and oblivion”, for his first published novel Black Rock White City – a triumph for small independent publisher Transit Lounge, which had to plan extra print runs to meet demand.
The 2017 Miles Franklin literary award longlist
The disastrous Fyre festival recruited hundreds of online personalities to advertise the event with social media promotions that did not disclose they were part of a marketing campaign, according to a leaked pitch deck.
The festival – which was billed as a luxury Bahamas getaway for the wealthy, but descended into chaos and lacked basic, functioning amenities – brought on more than 400 “influencers” with huge social media followings to publish promo videos and photos, Vanity Fair reported on Monday.
Nick Bilton, the reporter who obtained the pitch deck, called it “one of the most preposterous invitations for outside capital that I have ever seen”, noting its use of cringe-worthy terms like the “Fyre Squad” to refer to festival employees and the “Fyre Starters” to describe social media celebrities.
But one of the most notable disclosures from the 43-page document is the fact that hundreds of models and online personalities, such as reality star Kendall Jenner and model Emily Ratajkowski, were given free flights, accommodation and tickets in exchange for promoting the event to fans. As Bilton noted, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has rules in place requiring that “influencers” who share promotional materials “clearly and conspicuously disclose their relationships to brands”.
The FTC has repeatedly warned celebrities that they have to disclose paid sponsorships, most recently sending more than 90 letters to “influencers” and marketers after reviewing Instagram posts by celebrities, athletes and others, reminding them of the policies.
It’s unclear if regulators have received any complaints about the Fyre Festival. The FTC did not immediately respond to the Guardian’s request for comment on Monday night.
The festival – co-organized by rapper Ja Rule and described as being “closer to The Hunger Games or Lord of the Flies than Coachella” in a new lawsuit – claimed that its “Fyre Starters” posted promotions that reached over 300 million people in 24 hours.
“These ambassadors stand as part of, and representative of, the Fyre tribe,” the pitch deck said, adding that these “key personalities” will “lead the attendance of an influential audience at the Fyre festival around the world and therefore your potential brand partners”.
Many of the promoters – which also included models Bella Hadid, Nick Bateman and Hailey Baldwin – began deleting their posts about the festival as the controversy unfolded, and most had failed to label them as promotional in the first place, according to Vanity Fair. Some had previously posted Instagram pictures showing that they had arrived by private planes and were lounging before the festival began.
This kind of deceptive advertising has become an increasing problem, leading the FTC to threaten a crackdown.
Hadid and others associated with the event have issued half-hearted apologies since the festival unraveled.
Charles and Mary Lamb have a lot to answer for. Ever since their Tales from Shakespeare, an idea has taken root that his great plays are a kind of animated fiction, blueprints for perfectly formed, compelling stories. On this reading, our national poet is just a master storyteller who spins archetypal stories and characters as if he were Hollywood’s golden goose.
Well, not really. Shakespeare was a playwright, not a novelist, who traded in brilliant theatrical metaphors and unforgettable characters. Often from borrowed material, he conjured stunning stage plots – a quite different thing from fiction – through what the scholar Stephen Greenblatt calls the exercise of “strategic opacity”. In other words, Shakespeare would plant some unresolved and inexplicable mystery at the heart of his greatest work, and let its multi-faceted complexity dazzle and bewitch his audience.
Take Othello, for example. At a basic narrative level, it’s impossible. Desdemona’s marriage to “the Moor”, never properly explained or explored, lasts about half an hour before Iago, for reasons he refuses to elucidate, plots to poison his master’s relationship, and bring him to ruin with “motiveless malignity”. Othello, for his part, is provoked to a murderous fury by a mislaid handkerchief, an improbably slight device that must sponsor an impossible weight of lethal jealousy. And yet, despite these improbabilities, Othello on stage is both an edge-of-your-seat dramatic masterpiece and a great tragedy about sexual jealousy, identity, race and betrayal. That’s a heady mix few contemporary novelists would dare to contemplate.
So Tracy Chevalier is indeed a brave woman. Her “Othello retold” becomes a mission impossible that must a) make sense of, and b) modernise a classic of world theatre within a short novel.
Chevalier’s solution, which works very well if you’ve never seen the play, is to translate Othello, the heroic mercenary general who has “done the state some service”, into Osei (or “O”), a diplomat’s son and Ghanaian schoolboy in the ’burbs of 1970s Washington DC. In keeping with this rootless, quotidian milieu, Desdemona becomes an Italian-American girl, “Dee” Benedetti; Iago “Ian” the school bully; while the playground becomes the lethal arena for the collision of four rambunctious teens, struggling for identity and acting out some tumultuous schoolroom rivalries.
Forget race hatred, marital passion or adult frenzy, Chevalier’s drama centres on “what it means to be the outsider”. To add urgency to an everyday story of high-school bullying, she compresses the action into the cycle of a school day, from “morning recess”, to lunch break, to “afternoon recess” to the climactic “after school”. It’s a clever strategy, executed with typical aplomb by the gifted author of Girl With a Pearl Earring. But, deprived of the complex opacity of Shakespeare’s theatrical vision, and lacking the wild teenage darkness of, for instance, Lord of the Flies, her novel becomes linear, reductive and almost banal – a playground scrap, in which a prized strawberry pencil case must stand in for Desdemona’s fatal handkerchief.
The Hogarth Shakespeare has done surprisingly well for a fundamentally flawed idea. Chevalier is following Margaret Atwood (The Tempest), Howard Jacobson (The Merchant of Venice) and Jeanette Winterson (The Winter’s Tale). Her New Boy is an often inspired riff on adolescence and alienation. Its violent closing pages take it within hailing distance of its theatrical source material. But the real lesson of this book is to instruct the reader in the profound, possibly unbridgeable, differences between drama and fiction. Chevalier’s pointed retelling should be taught in creative writing schools across the English-speaking world.
• New Boy by Tracy Chevalier is published by Hogarth (£12.99). To order a copy for £9.74 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
Dave Asprey, 43, is best known for his concoction Bulletproof Coffee, the go-to caffeine kick of Silicon Valley, Hollywood and David Beckham. A Guinness-dense combination of coffee, two tablespoons of butter and a product he markets called Brain Octane Oil, a triglyceride oil derived from coconut oil, the recipe was inspired by Tibetan yak-butter tea. Before becoming a “biohacker”, he made, lost and remade fortunes in tech startups. The Bulletproof empire now includes shops, online sales and a podcast; Asprey’s latest book, Head Strong, contains his theories on how to improve your brain function in two weeks.
You’ve spent $1m and 20 years “biohacking” yourself. What does that word mean?Biohacking is the art and science of changing the environment around you or inside you so that you have full control of your own biology.
It’s interesting to hear it described as an art and science – many in the scientific establishment would regard you as quite out there…Oh no, the stuff I do is very science-based. The primary function in the scientific method is that you make an observation, you form a hypothesis and you test the observation. My observation for Bulletproof Coffee came while I was in Tibet – namely, why do Tibetans have a blender hooked up to a car battery that they carry around on a yak in order to blend their yak-butter tea? It didn’t make any sense but they do it. And two, why do I feel amazing when I drink it?
The stuff I’m doing isn’t just like flip of a coin – it’s a hypothesis based on reading thousands of papers about biochemical pathways.
How does your background in Silicon Valley inform your approach?Hackers are systems thinkers and in order to take control of another computer, you don’t have to know everything about it. You just have to know enough and apply the right techniques. And it is experimental and it is OK to try something and fail. There’s a lot of fear in medicine and there’s also a lot of, “Well, we’re only going to do one thing at a time…” It’s very, very slow-moving and I don’t want to move slowly. I’ve only got maybe 85, 90 years. My goal right now is 180 years, because I’m doing something about it now instead of waiting.
In Head Strong, you write that you started biohacking because you had “brain fog” and were overweight. So you wanted to improve your health?More than improving my health, it was about having control of my own biology. When I started out, I thought I had a couple of problems. I had some brain fog, like I’d try and pay attention or remember things and I couldn’t. I got pretty concerned about it. Then [the doctor] told me I had a very high risk of stroke and heart attack before I was 30. And I said, “Well, fix me.” And it was the utter failure of that approach that made me decide I had to take control.
What approach did you originally take?I worked out for 90 minutes a day, six days a week for 18 months in order to lose the 45kg of fat I was carrying. I cut my calories, I went on a low-fat diet, but it only made me tired and hungry. It was miserable. So it was the desperation of, “For God’s sake, none of this crap works” – that’s what really got me motivated.
What percentage of calories do you think should come from fat?I think 50-70% of calories should come from very specific fats.
Most dietary guidelines recommend 20-35%, right?They absolutely would; this is higher. If you’re eating the wrong fats or eating them with a lot of sugar, it doesn’t work. If it’s margarine and canola oil, you’re going to get one result and if it’s coconut oil and avocados, you’ll get a different result. But if someone ups their vegetable intake, they stop eating processed foods and they up their saturated fat intake, they generally have amazing results that fly in the face of what you would expect.
What “results”?This isn’t a small sample any more. My first book, The Bulletproof Diet, has sold globally somewhere around half a million copies. People consumed 48m cups of Bulletproof Coffee last year. It’s a big thing, and on my book tour for Head Strong, in every single city, there were people coming up and saying, “Dave, I lost 40lb, 50lb…” So the sample here is so large and the online forums are so large that anytime someone says, “There’s no evidence for this,” I’m like, “What kind of evidence do you like?” Here are tens of thousands of people who have struggled for 20 years to lose weight and have lost it effortlessly in a rapid period of time that you say is impossible.
Is it true you give your kids half a shot of espresso in the morning?Yeah, I give my kids an espresso cup full of Bulletproof Coffee, so 100ml. The reason for that is that I want them to have the butter and I want them specifically to have the Brain Octane Oil because it turns off their hunger too. Little kids are hungry all the time. My kids just go off and colour instead of asking for food all the time; it’s kind of relaxing.
In Head Strong, you warn against brain kryptonite. What is that?Just like your cellphone has a battery in it, you have a battery. It’s distributed throughout your body – there’s quadrillion ancient bacteria, mitochondria, that are incorporated into our cells and they take food and oxygen and make energy for us to use to make our thoughts, to move our muscles and do everything we do. The efficiency of that system is something you can hack. Brain kryptonite is something like margarine or seed oils (canola, corn, vegetable oil) – they poison those ancient bacteria and make them work more slowly.
You’re a big fan of smart drugs. We don’t have much idea of their long-term impact – does that concern you?It depends on the smart drug and I do my research on each drug before I use it, because they’re different. The most controversial drug I’ve used was something called Provigil or modafinil, and I’m pretty well known for this one, because I was maybe the first Silicon Valley guy to raise my hand and say, “I’m doping. I’m taking the limitless drug. I’ve been taking it every day for eight years and it saved my career.” I would not have my MBA from Wharton without smart drugs. They have been fundamental to me being who and where I am today. I’m really grateful for them.
How much exercise should we do?Exercise is really important but excessive exercise is bad for brain function. That’s what I was doing in my 20s and what a lot of people do today. In Head Strong, I recommend that you walk at normal pace for 20 minutes every day. That’s it. Then, once a week, do something really, really hard for 15 minutes: interval sprints, or lift really heavy things until you can’t lift them any more. If you do that, those are two different pathways for growing new mitochondria, for causing the battery in the body to recharge itself.
Many experts would regard your methods as pseudoscience. How do you respond to that?If you look at my Silicon Valley career, what I do is I disrupt things that are broken or don’t work. And there will always be people pushing back. So I welcome all the critics: all they need is to turn the book over and look at the quotes on the back from the most successful and well-respected brain doctors and anti-ageing doctors. So I guess we’re all crazy… Or we all look better than the overweight people following the 1970s, low-fat, eat-healthy-and-exercise crowd. Their stuff doesn’t work and they’re living evidence it doesn’t work. You show me a powerful, youthful, healthy-looking person who follows that kind of advice who’s criticising the Bulletproof Diet. You won’t find one.
• Head Strong is published by Harper Wave on 18 May (£18.99). To order a copy for £16.14 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
“Pain starts past six hours,” said the pianist Nicolas Horvath of performing Erik Satie’s Vexations, which requires 840 repetitions of the same few lines of notation. “Madness starts past 12 hours; hell starts past 20 hours!” Another pianist, according to the New Yorker, abandoned his performance of the piece after 595 of the repetitions “because he claimed he was being overtaken by evil thoughts and noticed strange creatures emerging from the sheet music”.
This is not the sort of talk you usually hear around the making and selling of speculative property developments, but then Steve Chance and Wendy de Silva, although they can be defined as property developers by virtue of the fact that they buy sites, build on them and then sell, are not of the usual kind. They are architects for whom trading in land and construction is a means to a creative end. “We behave more like an artist,” they say. “You just paint what you want and hope someone wants to buy it.”
They like collaborating with artists. With their latest work, a house called Vex in Stoke Newington, north London, they chose as their partners two musicians – one dead (Satie), and one living – Robin Rimbaud, who also likes to be called Scanner, on account of his interest in capturing the electronic sounds of such things as mobile phones and police scanners. Vex, say Chance and de Silva, is inspired by Vexations, most obviously in the looping repetition of its forms, a stack of irregular cylinders, which “like the Satie piece go and come back, not always in the same orbit”. Scanner was commissioned to compose a piece – any piece – that could be played in the house once complete.
Vex is mostly made of poured concrete, which is heavy and slow: slow to build, slow to warm up and cool down, and somehow imparting an atmosphere of slowness to movements inside it. It seems to belong to a different dimension of time from the thin brick skins of the generic terraced houses around it. At the same time it gets some dynamism from a spiralling movement up through its internal stair and instability from a certain teeter in the way the external shapes cantilever and recede.
The external surface of the concrete gets a more urgent rhythm from the imprint of the corrugated steel shuttering in which it was cast, whose curving profiles might also be thought of as something like sound waves. Other layers of time come with the scars and wrinkles of construction, the marks of nails and the joints between sheets, dribbles and warps, some patchy stuff round the back where, as Chance says, “it looks like a bomb’s gone off”. In a good way, it feels like a building born old. It has history already.
In truth, the decision to build in poured concrete added another layer of difficulty to the already less than obvious idea of basing a speculative house on a notoriously painful work of music. The making of each storey required months building the moulds followed by a pour that, like a many-ton soufflé, has to work the first time. There was a bulge on the ground floor that led to changes in method when the upper floors were built. The use of concrete was “incredibly nerve-racking”. It added 18 months to the construction programme. “Why don’t you build it out of something else?” said prospective contractors. To say nothing of the scepticism of some planners and neighbours: one got up a petition against the “tower block”, until the architects took round a model, to show that it was only three storeys, plus a roof terrace.
At this point in the architects’ telling of the story it begins to sound like crawling the London Marathon course in a gorilla suit; something insanely difficult done just in order to do something insanely difficult. But the means of construction give the building a presence it could get no other way. They also allow things important to both the architects and Scanner, even if they lead to raucous moments, which are unpredictability, improvisation, things not turning out as expected.
The project resembles Vexations in another way, a piece whose listeners, to quote the New Yorker again, pass through phases of phases of “fascination”, “agitation” and “all-encompassing agony” to “a state of deep tranquillity”. The interior of the hard-won house, especially the top floor kitchen/living/dining room, is at the very least serene, an elevated manmade cave around which sunlight, entering from different directions, moves. Chance and de Silva are taking their time about renting or selling the house – they are enjoying spending time there themselves, and are thinking about holding a live event there with Scanner.
Should the future inhabitants fancy it, they can play Scanner’s music in the somewhat reverberant space – two 20-minute pieces that can be heard concurrently or sequentially, formed out of sounds of the building site and of traffic in the street, which are then “wrapped”, as Scanner puts it, around samples of Satie. Some of the time you can forget you’re hearing the music, as opposed to an ambient set of city noises, which is as Scanner wants it. “The piece works best if you only notice when it’s switched off that it was there – like it’s not until a window’s broken that you notice it.”
Music is liquid architecture, said Goethe, and architecture is frozen music, and they both unfold in space and time. Scanner says that the two arts “want to be in bed together, but they can be troublesome partners”. The extent to which Vex can really be like Vexations is limited (which may be just as well): the relationship is more analogous and indirect. Where they come closest is in the making of an atmosphere, an environment that, memorably, a bit madly, mostly beautifully, is what Vex does.
Stunningly losing the best picture Oscar may turn out to be the best thing that could have happened to La La Land (Lionsgate, 12), Damien Chazelle’s sun-bright, sour-sweet satsuma of a musical. Formally released from the prestige pressure bestowed by such a title, the film that inspired such a hysterical pre-Oscar backlash as to be labelled “fascist propaganda” in certain quarters of the internet can be cherished once more as the bijou beauty it is – a film out not to change the world, but to wistfully warm it up a little. Stylistically riffing on Jacques Demy and Stanley Donen with frisky magpie cheek, Chazelle’s picture is steeped in nostalgia, but not just of the gilded “they don’t make ’em like they used to” variety. Its simple, starry-eyed boy-meets-girl story deals in emotional nostalgia too, mistily marking the romantic highs, errors of the heart and intractable influence of fate on a single love affair.
Sebastian (Ryan Gosling) is the musician fixated on recreating the past, while Mia (Emma Stone) is the actress with an eye to the future. As they move backwards and forwards, respectively, along the Hollywood travelator, the question is how long the lovers can remain within sight of each other. This isn’t the huge, iridescent heartbreak of vintage melodrama; Chazelle and his kinetically connected leads play it both gentler and cooler than that, in a story about the love that sometimes blossoms, and sometimes wilts, in the cracks of other, bigger dreams.
Having been delighted the first time round, I was nervous of returning to La La Land, worried that its poster paint visuals and swirling motion would thin and stutter on repeat viewing. If anything, however, this lovely film’s tender, wily sadness burns more quickly through the surface shimmer.
Another of this year’s awards season favourites, Kenneth Lonergan’s more emotionally assaultive Manchester By the Sea (Studiocanal, 15), translates readily to the small screen. This exquisitely heart-sore dissection of a regular Joe’s irregular tragedy sees the playwright putting words and faces to the fore, the camera merely their lowly courier to the audience.
But what words and what faces. Casey Affleck, one of those actors whose pauses have their own scale of octaves, is a shuffling screen presence with slowly shattering impact. As Lee, a Boston janitor awkwardly entrusted with guardianship of his spiky nephew when his brother dies, he doffs his frayed baseball cap to Brando at no cost to his own wiry peculiarities as a performer. His contentious Oscar could hardly have been more richly deserved; the same goes for Lonergan’s script, at once literately wrought and bloody-raw with feeling.
At his best, Cristian Mungiu is a film-maker with similar needle-to-the-heart precision. An elegantly sculpted, seething take-down of upper-crust Romanian corruption, Graduation (Curzon Artificial Eye, 15) doesn’t quite find Mungiu on peak form. A taut study of a doctor gaming the system to get his teenage daughter academically ahead, its cruelties and ironies are a little too tidy to linger in the bones the way 4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days does. But plenty of his peers could still watch and learn from Mungiu’s intricate, leave-nothing-to-chance formality: every shot choice and every incidental aside here quiver with scalding subtext.
Italian director Saverio Costanzo, by contrast, practically revels in carelessness. Sliding straight to DVD nearly three years after winning major awards at Venice, his Hungry Hearts (Kaleidoscope, 15) teeters wildly between tough emotional authenticity and stressful genre lunacy, as its story of a toxic parenting partnership unravels as recklessly as its characters. A mixed bag, but Adam Driver’s tense, nettled turn as a frozen-out father is its prize offering.
The Olive Tree (Eureka, 15) is comparatively restful viewing. An earthy, heartfelt ecological drama from the Spanish director Icíar Bollaín, written with characteristic sincerity by her partner, Paul Laverty, this fable-like tale of a young farmer battling corporate bigwigs for the return of her family’s prized olive tree has the stripped-down sincerity and sensitivity of Laverty’s work with Ken Loach, though its fist is less aggressively raised.
The week’s best new documentary, meanwhile, is another Netflix exclusive. Produced by the illustrious team-up of Wim Wenders and Errol Morris, Sonia Kennebeck’s National Bird frostily probes the ethical ins and outs of America’s secret drone programme through the frank personal testimonies of three air force whistleblowers no longer willing to hover in silence. Kennebeck sounds the alarm with stealthy grace. More so than such fine narrative films as Eye in the Sky and Good Kill, this is a picture to vivify what, for some, remains an abstract debate.
Every Paramore record unloads a fresh heap of inter-band strife – this time, their bassist quit and ex-drummer rejoined. It feels unfair that discontent dominates their narrative (the feminist emo band that made a platinum pop crossover), but it also inspires great catharsis. Throughout, Hayley Williams doesn’t sugarcoat her frustrations with false idols, futile optimism or anxiety, while reshuffling has kept Paramore nimble, abandoning rock for Tom Tom Club and Bow Wow Wow’s polyrhythmic zest, at its sprightliest on Hard Times and Told You So. Excluding the syrupy 26 and seething No Friend, After Laughter could be one of the year’s best pop albums.
Stefan (Lukas Turtur) and Andreas (Philipp Hochmair) live a charmed existence. Their affection and intimacy is explored with unexpected and explicit candour in this intriguing study of a relationship suddenly tipped off balance. The men, both involved in the music that twines together the film’s story, share their home with a much-loved cat, Moses. The sudden violent death of the animal changes everything between them. As an inciting event, it’s a troubling device and not fully persuasive. The languid pacing doesn’t help – we have plenty of time to question the authenticity of the act during the numerous shots of Andreas pensively tending his shrubs.
The year is 1919. Anna (Paula Beer), a young German woman, visits the grave of her fiance who died in the war. There, she discovers fresh flowers have already been laid. A foreigner – a Frenchman, no less – is grieving for the man she lost to a French bullet in an anonymous trench. The opening gambit of François Ozon’s elegant interwar romance invites us to second-guess the story that links Parisian musician Adrien Rivoire (Pierre Niney) to Anna’s late love, Frantz. Colour flashbacks are infused with inviting warmth, which contrasts with the black and white of a reality in which everyone mourns at least one loved one. There’s a pleasing symmetry to this story – lie is matched by lie, journey by journey – and Beer’s silky self-possession is utterly beguiling.
It’s a testament to the unfeasible beauty of the cast of Jim Sheridan’s tearjerker that Poldark’s Aidan Turner, present in a supporting role, looks distinctly average by comparison. But all the smouldering gorgeousness of Rooney Mara, Theo James, Jack Reynor and Eric Bana can’t dress up this mawkish slog of a movie. Adapted from the book by Sebastian Barry, the story deals with subject matter that has already been tackled with more heartbreaking humour in Philomena and more biting fury in The Magdalene Sisters. Credit must go to Vanessa Redgrave, however, playing a woman who has been institutionalised since she was in her 20s and acting everyone else off the screen.
Mat Fraser, who hosted the 2012 Paralympics opening ceremony, has been a stripper and played Seal Boy in the US TV show American Horror Story. His mother was given thalidomide when she was pregnant: as a consequence, his arms are short. When he delivers the opening speech of Richard III, and talks about being “curtailed”, only “half made-up”, he does not caper or smirk, but simply dips slightly towards the audience, challenging them to measure the words against his body.
This is the Northern Broadsides way. No throat-clearing. Straight in as soon as the lights are on. Attack. Drums: there is a lovely range of these in the battle scene; Fraser has also been a punk drummer. Neil Murray’s design, which sets the action in front of a burnished, unyielding screen, promises martial boldness, no fussing. I have never heard that state-of-the-nation, state-of-the-body opening declaration sound so straightforward: as if we were about to watch a documentary.
I saw Barrie Rutter’s production at a preview. Bold elements were in position, but not quite fusing. Like a jigsaw, where you see the outlines of each piece through the overall picture. An admirable clarity of diction did not always mean clarity of meaning. Characters shot lines at, rather than between, each other. The pace was unstintingly rapid. Fraser had a terrifying geniality, which served him well in wooing, but would gain from some more complicated darkness.
Still, there are coups beyond the casting of the main role. Dean Whatton, who has dwarfism, plays one of the young princes, daring you to laugh when he is called “little”. There is a finely calibrated performance from Christine Cox as a fur-stoled Duchess – serpentine in movement and crisp in speech – who brings home one of Shakespeare’s most surprising lines. In the middle of rich and elaborate curses, when it seems oaths are the main chance for cursed women, she makes a case for silence, beautiful in this confessional age: “Why should calamity be full of words?”
It is 25 years since Northern Broadsides launched itself – with a production of Richard III in a boatshed in Hull. Their distinctive feature has always been the default use of the Yorkshire accent. Rutter is very strong on why this matters. It is not about getting in “street voices”: it is about “the dignity of [your] own voice”. Every director should pin that quote to their heart.
Somewhere, several middle-aged men are kicking themselves. In a writing session with a young musician, Sigrid Solbakk Raabe, they patronised her, talked over her and acted as if her ideas were worthless; she sat there smiling and biting her tongue.
The session did turn out to be important to Sigrid, just not in the way the producers intended. The 20-year-old Norwegian singer has penned a near-perfect revenge pop anthem voicing all the things she wishes she’d said. “You shut me down, you like the control/ You speak to me like I’m a child,” she sings on her breakout hit Don’t Kill My Vibe, before her crystalline voice pirouettes around the killer chorus: “You think you’re so important to me, don’t you?”
The feeling of being spoken down to and underestimated struck a chord. Streamed more than 13m times on Spotify, the song (co-written with producer Martin Sjølie) has been billed as “the ultimate millennial empowerment anthem”. A single listen got Island Records so excited they got on a plane the next day to sign Sigrid. Lorde picked it as one of her favourite new songs on a Spotify playlist; the Guardian called her “the new Lorde, basically”.
“I remember writing the song and thinking it felt like a really big deal to me, but I didn’t think it would be like this,” she tells me over the phone as she makes her way from a soldout gig in Manchester – her second ever show as headliner – to play in London. Although navigating similar situations can be particularly tricky for young women, she says, she hopes the song can be read in different ways. “It’s about a writing session for me, personally, but we tried to make it as general as possible. Not being treated OK is something everyone can relate to, no matter what age or gender.”
Born in the seaside town of Ålesund, Norway, Sigrid spent her childhood immersed in nature, listening to Joni Mitchell and Neil Young. The first time she was put on stage in kindergarten, with 200 other children, she burst out crying and had to be taken off. Getting involved in school theatre made her bolder, and aged 13 she performed a “terrible, but very fun” version of Smells Like Teen Spirit. In 2013 her older brother, musician Tellef Raabe, spurred her to write her own music so she could perform at a gig with him, and in two weeks she had written a song, Sun, that became her first single.
Don’t Kill My Vibe, Sigrid’s first EP, released earlier this month, showcases moments of Adele-like heartbreak, catchy choruses and sprinklings of Joanna Newsom and Grimes. Dynamite is an acoustic song about two people growing apart (“You’re as safe as a mountain/ But know that I am dynamite”); Plot Twist is inspired by a boy “playing games”, Fake Friends makes the case for burning bridges. The lyrics are often underpinned by anger, melancholy or disappointment. “I find it easier to write about stuff that is frustrating,” she says. “Writing songs about having a nice time – ‘Oh I’m so happy on tour with my band’ – I’d find it really difficult to write a good song about it.”
Although Sigrid initially planned to become a lawyer or a teacher (“I didn’t think music was possible for me – it’s such an up-and-down life”), she’s glad she took the risk. She now lives in Bergen with her brother and his girlfriend, and spends her time hanging out with the local musicians (singer/producer Aurora is a friend). When she needs a break from music she likes hiking and reading (she has just finished Victoria by Norwegian writer Knut Hamsun).
She’s also not afraid to take risks musically. When I ask for her dream collaborators, she replies, at least half-seriously: “Stormzy? That would be really cool. I started listening to him last year: I love the production, and the rapping is so fast, it’s really impressive. I’m trying to incorporate that into my pop songs.”
Credit where it is due. Eugene Jarecki wanted to make a movie about absolutely everything, and what sounded goofy in the Cannes marketing material turned out to be a worthy on-ramp.
Promised Land threatens at first to be a two-hour documentary about Elvis Presley’s car, but Jarecki shrugs that notion off after a few moments. And not without a degree of self-awareness. “This is a metaphor for Elvis, and the human condition,” someone chuckles from the backseat when the 1963 Rolls Royce breaks down. He even allows a bit of criticism. Writer/producer David Simon smirks, “you should have gotten one of his Cadillacs – an American car,” as mechanics try to revive the lumbering heap of damaged glitz which, by this point in the film, has become a rolling symbol of the doomed American experiment.
Jarecki uses Elvis Presley’s career and influence to help us make sense of fame, power, corruption, self-destructive behaviour and pretty much all the other ills of the world. Why in the hell did poor people vote for that greedy skunk Donald Trump? Many have tried to explain this (and will for a long long time) but few have done so with so many toe-tappin’ clips.
Elvis Presley, as I’m sure you know, grew up dirt poor in the rural south. (“Welcome to the Birthplace,” a Mississippi tour guide, standing on the porch of a small shack, says with a zealot’s tinge in her voice.) He moved to Memphis, admired and absorbed the gospel and R&B of his black neighbours, mixed it with bluegrass and country and changed popular culture and the entertainment economy forever. It was an act of inspired genius (and really good marketing) and also the most blatant example of cultural appropriation in American history. (Yes, Chuck D is in the movie – he hasn’t altered his position, but does have nice things to say about The Beastie Boys. Go figure.)
Does that make Elvis a bad person? Take a step back and ask a bigger question: is America a good country? Hell, go even further: why do human beings believe the obvious lies from powerful forces? Oh, man, I thought this was gonna’ be a road trip down Route 66 in Elvis’ car!
And it is (with some lovely drone shots, too.) Public radio fans who want to see John Hiatt weep just sitting where the King once sat will get that moment. But Jarecki’s maximalist approach is surprisingly effective in elucidating how Western culture has subsisted on lies (“fake news”?) for a very long time now. Elvis’ route from Tupelo to Las Vegas (through Memphis, New York and Hollywood) is a classic rags-to-riches arc that ends in self-destruction. Jarecki, a madman when it comes to cross-cutting, even throws in a shot of Al Pacino as Tony Montana to make sure we get the point.
There are also outstanding moments from Elvis’ career, and the commentary from those who knew him is frequently heartbreaking. Some of the talking heads are expected: Greil Marcus, Luc Sante, Emmylou Harris. Others, like Alec Baldwin, Mike Myers, Ethan Hawke and Ashton Kutcher seem picked at random, but they all come off really well. These are people who haven’t dealt with anything near the degree of notoriety Elvis had, but are quite insightful on the topic of fame. (Kutcher, specifically, should win some sort of plaque for honesty.)
Promised Land has a thesis and it presents it well. The fabrications are catching up with us. America seemed like a new sensation for a time, even if built upon the backs of an an exploited repressed class. Now we’re in a drugged-out haze in a dopey white jumpsuit, fat and bloated and depressed. Donald Trump is our president and we’re about to drop dead in the bathroom.
We’re all doomed. At least that’s what Jarecki appears to be selling. For my own sanity I’d like to take his movie at face value, though, and not believe everything I see on a screen, no matter how convincing.
Reality-check for anyone who thought that life inside a Thai prison was a nice bed of roses, some kind of holiday camp. A Prayer Before Dawn is here to tell you that it ain’t, you slags, it’s actually a right bloody nightmare. There are fights in the yard and sexual assaults in the toilet. You have to sleep on the floor, packed in like sardines, and if the man beside you isn’t stone-cold dead already, you can lay pretty good odds he’ll have hung himself by the morning. And on top of all that, the food’s lousy too.
Obviously I’m prepared to take Jean-Stephane Sauvaire’s film at its word, not least because it’s based on the bestselling memoir by Billy Moore (embodied here by Joe Cole), a young British drug addict who spent three years inside the notorious Klong Prem prison and then came out to bear witness. A Prayer Before Dawn duly goes full Midnight Express in its depiction of these horrors, right down to the savage inmates, brutish guards and the indecipherable shrieking when the lights go out. In its better moments, though, it also bears comparison with Jacques Audiard’s Un Prophète, another tale of a supposed lamb-to-the-slaughter who, against all the odds, found a way to survive and then thrive.
Billy, it transpires, possesses some decent boxing skills, together with the junkie’s art of wheedling favours out of people who wouldn’t otherwise give him the time of day. Before long he’s won the support of Fame (Pornachanok Mabklang), a fetching trans convict who provides the cigarettes which he then uses to bribe his way onto the boxing team. Once there he’s schooled in the sweet science of punching and kicking people to a pulp, and enjoys the added perks afforded to the jail’s pugilists, like glass in the window and a table to sit at. But the battles take their toll and his old bunkmates want paying. And now – wouldn’t you know it? – Billy’s literally fighting for his life.
If those opening scenes weren’t punishing enough, the bouts aren’t in the business of providing light relief. Sauvaire doesn’t skimp on the violence or glamourise its delivery: electing to frame the fights in painful long takes, with much mauling and gasping and spitting of blood. Emerging victorious at the end of one tussle, Billy steps ringside to let a prison surgeon run a needle and thread across his tattered left ear.
A Prayer Before Dawn is playing as one of Cannes midnight screenings, the graveyard slot where the organisers like to send rough-hewn interlopers, deemed unfit for polite company. Chances are the film is going to fit in very nicely. No one would accuse it of breaking new ground, or finding fascinating new paths across its well-worn prison yard. But Sauvaire’s drama is lean and trim and unwavering in its task. You know its moves; you can see it coming. But when the punches are thrown, they rock you back on your heels.
Back in the autumn, Cambridge academic Christopher de Hamel had good and bad news in the same week. His book Meetings with Remarkable Manuscripts was published on 22 September, and was soon receiving admiring reviews, but two days earlier it failed to make the longlist for the Baillie Gifford non-fiction prize.
Happily, later judging panels have been far more enthusiastic . This week the former librarian of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, collected the £40,000 Wolfson history prize (its purse handily hiked by £10,000 this year, and with a single winner instead of two splitting it) at Claridge’s in Mayfair. “Explicit hoc totum, pro Christi da mihi potum” (the writing’s done, now for Christ’s sake get me a drink) he said to a newspaper diarist, in what may have been the first soundbite in Latin after a literary prize win, echoing a medieval scribe. This followed his winning the £5,000 Duff Cooper prize for non-fiction in February at a ceremony at the French ambassador’s residence in Kensington. Sales are flourishing too: now sporting a “best seller” flag on Amazon, his hardback)palaeographic travelogue is ranked No 1 in Christianity, No 2 in religious history and No 5 in “art issues”.
De Hamel’s frustrated-then-feted experience mirrors that of another don, Francis Spufford – whose novel Golden Hill was rejected by the Man Booker judges in 2016 but has triumphed in 2017 – and both books fared well in Books of the Year choices: Meetings ... was singled out by a disparate but illustrious group including John Banville, Rachel Cooke, Simon Heffer, Neil MacGregor, Dominic Sandbrook and Tom Stoppard.
In December De Hamel popped up on Newsnight and Radio 4’s Start the Week, and figured on the Waterstones book of the year shortlist – his book lost to Sarah Perry’s The Essex Serpent; but he was in good if somewhat surreal company among fellow finalists including Beatrix Potter and JK Rowling, and the shortlisting got his name onto Christmas wishlists.
There have been coffee table tomes about illuminated manuscripts before, and conventional historical studies (he produced one himself in 1997 while at Sotheby’s), but what differentiates Meetings ... is his personal style. Its reworking of the title of Thomas Pakenham’s Meetings with Remarkable Trees, itself derived from the guru Gurdjieff’s Meetings with Remarkable Men, crisply conveys the new approach. De Hamel treats each encounter with a manuscript (as he wrote in Review) as like a “conversation” with “a very famous person”; acts as an eccentric tour guide to the libraries that hold the 12 the book discusses, telling tales of owners, collectors and manuscript robbers, including kings, popes, tsars, revolutionaries and Hermann Goering; and often morphs into a book detective, investigating such mysteries as a text’s age or its scribe’s identity.
Robin Campillo’s 120 Battements Par Minute is a passionately acted ensemble movie about ACT UP in France in the late 80s, the confrontational direct-action movement which demanded immediate, large-scale research into Aids. The movie compellingly combines elegy, tragedy, urgency and a defiant euphoria.
Campillo, the screenwriter and film-maker who scripted Laurent Cantet’s 2008 Palme-winning The Class, here writes and directs. He commemorates the experience and comradeship of ACT UP as a kind of life during wartime and a radical moment comparable to 1848, although 1968 is probably the closer parallel.
Long before the invention of the term “woke”, the ACT UP goal was to rouse the gay community from fatalism and torpor – and strike back against the hostile complacency of the political and Big Pharma establishment who believed that this was not an emergency that concerned them, not an emergency at all, in fact.
This middle-aged establishment were also deeply irritated at young people presuming to tell them what to do. And there were many who believed that the conventions of compassion did not apply to gay people with HIV, and that the gay community’s unashamed celebration of pleasure meant that their suffering was deserved. It was a punitive logic and theology that did certainly did not apply to straight smokers and drinkers in hospital. (Without comment, but with tacit humour Campillo incidentally allows us to absorb the irony of campaigners demanding more medical information who keep going outside for cigarette breaks.)
It’s a compelling feature about love, life and friendship which can be compared to David France’s 2012 documentary How To Survive A Plague, about ACT UP in the United States. As a fictional representation, it sometimes looks like a politicised, if de-romanticised, version of something like Abdellatif Kechiche’s Blue Is The Warmest Colour, from 2013.
The movie is sited within the predominantly male world of ACT UP, gay people who are mostly HIV-positive, campaigners who have evolved a ritualistic method of debating their strategy, because time, like life, is short – with the “time out” sign for curtailing long speeches and finger-clicking instead of applause. The movie begins with a catastrophe: the campaigners have disrupted a medical convention by throwing fake blood at a speaker and even handcuffing him to a post. It is a terrible moment of indiscipline and misjudgment which allows them to be represented as violent. Bad publicity.
And yet ACT UP believes in this borderline transgressive act: throwing fake blood at objects, causing certain amounts of material damage to property, but mainly causing astonishment and disruption, because it is the only thing that stirs things up. Fake blood is indeed creepy, and there is an amusing moment when the recipe for making it in the bath is discussed. It is an image which is to recur in a somewhat Shakespearean dream of sadness in which the Seine has turned red. And these tactics get them to the conference table; the politicians and suits have to deal with ACT UP, who have forced the issue and accelerated the dispersal of information and research in a way that would have been impossible without them. Campillo’s movie reflects all this.
Among the campaigners, Nahuel Pérez Biscayart plays Sean, a wiry, smart, lippy guy who sits at the back, speaking out, challenging things that seem wrong, always in the vanguard of the action and never dismayed. Nathan (Arnaud Valois) is a quieter guy who is HIV-negative, and very attracted to Sean. Adèle Haenel plays Sophie, an exasperated organiser, and Antoine Reinartz is Thibault, someone whose authority in the group causes tensions in the group dynamic.
The movie follows them, and their hyper-alert guerrilla existence of busting into corporate offices and causing ructions while the employees look on in paralysed dismay. They are, in fact, a little creepy in these moments: a film-maker like Bertrand Bonello or early Haneke might have revelled in their icy anonymity. But they are here for a purpose and are soon ejected. Campillo does not, in fact, show them in confrontation with the police, or show the long hours in the cells after every protest-stunt. He is more interested in their lives before and after action.
And it is demanding – almost vocational. At one stage, Campillo shows Nathan asking Sean what everyone there does for a living, when they’re not campaigning – what are they in civilian life? The question is unexpected, even disloyal. They are focused on the cause. But the growing relationship between Nathan and Sean is the thread that runs through the drama, giving it an emotional direction and definition.
Sean has what is possibly the movie’s key speech. In the afterglow of what has been a successful protest, they are all heading home on the Metro and he is talking about how the nearness of death has intensified his appreciation of life. In that moment, the city seen from the train window suddenly looks beautiful with a New Wave splendour. Paris belongs to them, as Jacques Rivette might have said. But then Sean shrugs and grins. He was kidding: that sort of maudlin sentimental nonsense doesn’t help their cause. Of course it doesn’t. And yet part of the extraordinary power that the ACT UP campaign is increasingly assuming in cultural history is that it was something that valued life, and but also made people think about death – the last taboo. It made staring into the sun not merely possible but necessary. For most people in their twenties, death is just a rumour. For the gay generation of the 80s and for ACT UP, mortality, illness and bereavement were facts they had to confront, without help from the agencies of the state.
This film has what its title implies: a heartbeat. It is full of cinematic life.
Soundgarden lead singer Chris Cornell did not intend to take his own life, his family have said the day after a US medical examiner’s report determined his cause of death as suicide by hanging.
His relatives said they wanted to wait for a toxicology report before coming to any conclusions on what had happened to him, adding that they believed his judgment may have been impaired by drugs he was taking on the day he died.
“What happened is inexplicable and I am hopeful that further medical reports will provide additional details. I know that he loved our children and he would not hurt them by intentionally taking his own life,” Cornell’s wife, Vicky, said in a statement.
She said her husband had been taking Ativan, a prescription drug used to treat anxiety and insomnia, which has possible side effects including depression and impaired judgment.
Vicky Cornell added that, on the day her husband died, she “noticed he was slurring his words, he was different ... He told me he may have taken an extra Ativan or two.”
Kirk Pasich, a lawyer for the family, said Cornell’s relatives were disturbed that inferences that the singer “knowingly and intentionally took his life” were being made before the results of a toxicology test were known.
“Without the results of toxicology tests, we do not know what was going on with Chris or if any substances contributed to his demise. Chris, a recovering addict, had a prescription for Ativan and may have taken more Ativan than recommended dosages,” Pasich said.
“The family believes that if Chris took his life, he did not know what he was doing and that drugs or other substances may have affected his actions.”
Cornell had spoken openly of his struggles with drug and alcohol addiction, as well as his periods of depression and agoraphobia.
Vicky Cornell said she had asked security to check on her husband on Wednesday night and had spoken to him before and after the concert he played that evening in Detroit, Michigan, with Soundgarden.
On Thursday a local medical examiner’s office said: “The cause of death has been determined as hanging by suicide [sic]. A full autopsy report has not yet been completed.”
Cornell was a former member of the band Audioslave and had a solo career, but was perhaps best known as the frontman of Soundgarden, which emerged from the Seattle grunge scene that also produced Nirvana.
He was found in a bathroom in his room at the MGM Grand Detroit hotel after performing in the city on Wednesday night. Police said he was “laying in his bathroom, unresponsive and he had passed away”.
Robert De Niro takes on the role of Bernie Madoff, the Wall Street legend who fleeced investors of billions of dollars in the largest financial fraud in US history, in a new original movie that was aired on HBO on Saturday night.
How convincing is De Niro? For anyone assessing his performance, help is now at hand in the form of the first images of the real Bernie Madoff behind prison bars.
Madoff, 79, was last seen in public on 12 March 2009, when he pleaded guilty to running a giant Ponzi scheme: a $65bn (£50bn) scam that evaded detection for decades. Since that day, no pictures of the Wizard of Lies, to use the title of the HBO film, have emerged.
Until now. The Guardian is publishing two images of Madoff in prison garb that are believed to be the only photographic public records of the grand swindler in captivity.
The images were taken in the course of an interview with Madoff in the Butner federal prison outside Durham, North Carolina, where he is serving a 150-year sentence. The inmate is wearing a white T-shirt under a standard-issue khaki coat – Madoff is often to be seen wearing the jacket inside the prison as he complains of feeling cold, a side effect of his high blood pressure.
He has his hands outstretched as though in animated conversation. In the second image he smiles broadly, enjoying a moment of levity that may irritate some of his many financial victims still left reeling by the vast deception.
It’s been a busy couple of years for the Bernie Madoff infotainment industry, with De Niro’s performance in the HBO movie by Barry Levinson (the Oscar-winning director of Rain Man) being just one element of it. Last year, ABC broadcast a mini-series, Madoff, with Richard Dreyfuss in the title role.
Then there’s Audible Originals, the Amazon-owned digital books company and now podcast outlet. It launched its new channel with Ponzi Supernova, a deep dive by the journalist Steve Fishman into the scam based on 12 hours of recordings of Madoff talking about his crimes.
Both Dreyfuss and De Niro listened to the tapes as they prepared for their performances. The podcast reveals intimate details of Madoff’s life in captivity, including the memorable fact that Madoff has established a monopoly inside Butner over hot chocolate – he bought up every packet from the prison shop and traded them at a profit with other inmates.
Now that we can check against the images of the real Bernie Madoff, how do his imitators fare? Credit to ABC’s costume department for the uniform worn by Dreyfuss that is close to the real deal, at least in colour, though it should be noted that Madoff dismissed the series as inaccurate and “absurd”.
The bright orange jumpsuit worn by De Niro for HBO is, by contrast, wide of the mark. It comes across as more Guantánamo than Butner jail.
The actors’ voices can also be put through the reality test, by comparing their renditions to the real deal on Audible’s Ponzi Supernova tapes. De Niro and Dreyfuss, native New Yorkers both, put on their best New Yawk drawls, but neither come close to the thick Queens accents that flows from the mouth of the con artist himself.
It sold out quicker than Glastonbury. Within 20 minutes last week all sessions at Victoria Baths in Manchester had been snapped up by eager swimmers desperate to bob about in one of Britain’s most beautiful pools for the first time in 24 years.
When it opened in 1906, Victoria Baths was described as “the most splendid municipal bathing institution in the country” and “a water palace of which every citizen of Manchester can be proud”.
The council closed the baths in 1993 because of budget pressures, immediately prompting a crusade to reopen them. Next month the dream will come one step closer to reality when members of the public are invited to bathe in one of the pools for the first time since its closure as part of an ongoing funding drive.
Gill Wright, the project development manager of the Victoria Baths Trust and spokeswoman for Historic Pools of Britain, said there had been a surge of interest in saving and restoring old pools as the view of what constitutes “heritage” evolved.
“There’s a continued interest in heritage, but our interest in what is heritage as a nation is broadening. I’m 58 now and when I was a little girl heritage meant the National Trust and stately homes and castles and museums. Now, quite rightly, we have a different view of what constitutes our history. Pools are part of our social and sporting history, but it has taken the will of local people fighting for their pools to prove it,” she said.
“Swimming in a historic pool offers so much more than a modern leisure centre. It’s completely different. You walk into Victoria Baths and you are struck by the architecture – the beautiful tiles, the mosaics, the stained glass, the changing cubicles and the grand gala balcony – but also the history.”
She conceded that the baths would cost more to run than a modern pool when it eventually reopened but said it would have appeal far beyond Manchester’s borders, and be added to the city’s tourist trail. It could be like Barcelona’s Palau de la Música Catalana, she said, a historic music hall that draws visitors to Spain from all around the world.
The rapid sellout of tickets for sessions at the pool’s open day on 14 May suggests a large public appetite for swimming in historic buildings, evident in cities across the UK.
In Newcastle upon Tyne, Grade II-listed Turkish baths – closed by the council in 2013 – will reopen next year after the council granted planning permission for a £5m redevelopment. The charity Fusion Lifestyle plans to restore the baths, along with the city pool, and create health and wellbeing facilities, a spa and bistro cafe.
Work is expected to begin this year on the restoration and regeneration of the 1920s building, which was designed in a distinctive neo-Georgian style.
In nearby Tynemouth, a planning application has been submitted to restore the lido at the end of Longsands beach to its former glory. The concrete salt water tidal pool was built in the 1920s but fell out of use in the late 1970s after cheap package holidays abroad became popular.
The rebuilt pool will cost an estimated £5m, with a local pressure group raising about £100,000, from events, sales of merchandise and donations from the public, plus £50,000 from the coastal revival fund. Later this year campaigners will launch a community share offer, which will crowdfund from supporters. Members of the public have already indicated they would be prepared to buy £300,000 in shares.
With council budgets under pressure, swimmers are increasingly looking to run pools themselves. One success story is Bramley Baths in Leeds, which reopened as a social enterprise in 2013. Built on the site of a foundry, the Edwardian complex opened as a pool and public bath house in 1904, enabling local residents to wash, swim and use the Russian steam baths. The foundry chimney, built with 8,000 Kirkstall bricks, still towers over the baths and can be seen from across Leeds.
Since reopening the baths have thrived, with managers finding creative ways to pull in the punters: on Sunday there was an underwater Easter egg hunt and an underwater ballet class recently began on Mondays. The centre opens for 90 hours a week, double the number at reopening four years ago. Though a non-profit organisation, it generated a surplus of £37,120 in 2016, which it plans to reinvest in the baths.
In London, the £25m restoration of Kentish Town’s Victorian baths proved an instant hit when it reopened six years ago and is now run successfully by the social enterprise GLL.
In Birmingham, another Edwardian swimming pool looks likely to be saved from closure after campaigners secured grant funding. The city council-owned Moseley Road Baths, in Balsall Heath, was built in 1907. It contains rare features, including the only complete set of prewar private “slipper” baths: freestanding bathtubs used by members of the public with no tub at home. It also boasts possibly the only surviving steam-heated drying racks in a British swimming baths.
The pool has been earmarked for closure once the new Sparkhill pool is built and opens for business next year.
But the Moseley Road Baths Action Group has won backing from Historic England, the National Trust and Prince’s Regeneration Trust to fully investigate options for restoring the Grade II*-listed building and keeping the pool open.
Andy Beer, the regional director for the National Trust in the Midlands, has described the baths as “one of Birmingham’s most beautiful and significant buildings”.
Harrogate – Royal Turkish Baths
A 2004 restoration revitalised these splendid Moorish-style baths, which first opened in 1896. The modernised spa still follows the ritual of heating, cooling and cleansing, leading bathers through the tepidarium (warm), the calidarium (hot) and the laconium (hottest) before they cool down in the plunge pool.
Edinburgh – Portobello Swim Centre
This much-loved and restored Victorian pool is situated alongside the beach on the main Portobello Promenade, and is home to Edinburgh’s only authentic and publicly available Turkish baths.
London – Ironmonger Row
City swimmers love the big windows and long skylight brightening up their laps in this recently restored pool, which opened in 1931. A £17m renovation project tidied up the 30-metre pool and partially retained the basement Turkish baths. The original plunge pool, marble massage slabs and hot rooms have survived, alongside an upmarket new spa.
• This article was amended on 19 April 2017 to clarify that the sold-out tickets for public swimming at Victoria Baths are all for its open day on 14 May.
Welcome to this week’s blog, and our roundup of your comments and photos from last week.
First, an intriguing post from Rex Bowan:
I finished Finnegans Wake by James Joyce. I read it in a one-man post Trump and Brexit protest, as I had read, and I think it is right to say, that it is a great anti-nationalist text. It was a breezy little read and I recommend it highly to all readers.
Somehow, it seems just right that I have no idea how to take that. In a way, it would make less sense if someone posted something I fully understood about Finnegans Wake.
Luckily, most other posts were more straightforward last week - although Tom Mooney did provide an intriguing mystery:
I found a little cracker of a book this week, which seems to be an almost complete unknown. East Bay Grease by Eric Miles Williamson. It is the very, very gritty story of a teenage white trash kid growing up in the roughest parts of Oakland, California. Living in a trailer, bullied and beaten, it is his story of survival in the ghetto. It is also a love letter to Oakland, to jazz and to the city’s great hero, Jack London. It is so well written and a really enjoyable read. I can’t seem to find a great deal out about the author, other than he is a critic and college professor of some renown. But the novel seems to be all but forgotten, which is a shame.
Meanwhile, Robert Rudolph has been enjoying a novel set on the opposite side of the USA:
I’ve just finished Stephen King’s Salem’s Lot. Very good narrative, though I felt like shouting advice or asking questions of his heroes a few times. King has strong - and obviously mixed - feelings about his native state, but his paean to the New England fall - and his wart-filled portraits of villagers - add a solid underpinning to his vampire yarn.
Oliver Jeffers and Drew Daywalt, these guys are brilliant and keep both adults laughing and children entertained.
Sent via Guardian Witness
By Kevin Tedds
15 April 2017, 9:47
Poignantly, julian6 recommends the “miraculously fine” Larry’s Party by Carol Shields:
A tender nuanced portrait of a life ebbing backwards and forwards but with a basic onward movement from first love and marriage into middle age. The story is of Larry Weller - a landscape designer more specifically a maze maker. Are these mazes emblematic of his life journey - his own puzzlings about his fears and motivations - his desires - his fondnesses and sudden blank incomprehensions? Shields is a marvellous guide and observer - it is utterly rotten that cancer deprived the world of this great author far too soon. I haven’t yet reached the conclusion of the work - it will be sad indeed to finish this gem.
Here too is an important reminder from Ongley:
A couple of days late, but I just wanted to remember Primo Levi (Torino, 31 July 1919 – Torino, 11 April 1987) on the 30th anniversary of his death. Hard to believe now that Levi had difficulty in finding an editor for If This Is A Man, which was eventually published by De Silva in 1947 in a print run of 2,500 copies of which only 1,500 were sold, mostly in his home town of Turin.
Finally, Boocat01 has no doubt at all that we should all read Dodgers by Bill Beverly - and do it now:
This is an outstanding book. Easily one of the best I have read in the last 10 years. I’ll run out of words to describe it so please just go and read it. In fact I’d say put down whatever you are reading right now and pick ‘Dodgers’ up instead.
If you would like to share a photo of the book you are reading, or film your own book review, please do. Click the blue button on this page to share your video or image. I’ll include some of your posts in next week’s blog.
If you’re on Instagram and a book lover, chances are you’re already sharing beautiful pictures of books you are reading, “shelfies” or all kinds of still lifes with books as protagonists. Now, you can share your reads with us on the mobile photography platform – simply tag your pictures there with #GuardianBooks, and we’ll include a selection here. Happy reading!
The landscape of British rock is routinely pockmarked with journeyman provincial bands who have overcome critical indifference or downright hostility to slog their way to arena-filling status. Scorned by the taste-making elite, they have surfed a populist wave to success, powered by robust tunes, elbow grease and naked bloody-mindedness: Stereophonics. Kasabian. Biffy Clyro. The Courteeners. Catfish and the Bottlemen.
You Me at Six can be firmly added to their number. With negligible media support or endorsement, the hard-rock Surrey five-piece have chucked out five commercially successful albums, including a No 1 in 2014’s Cavalier Youth, and ascended to a rarefied stratosphere where they are able to record live albums at Wembley Arena. They have done so without boasting an original bone in their bodies or any distinguishing musical features whatsoever.
Such success does not roll around by happenstance, and to You Me at Six’s dubious credit they have made an impressively efficient fist of being an utterly generic, entirely unremarkable arena-rock band. Should you desire seeing an utterly generic, entirely unremarkable arena-rock band, they should be your first point of call. In their sturdy set, no heroic pose remains un-thrown; no cliche unsung.
Like many bands of their ilk, they crave depth and profundity while being definitively empty and devoid of significance. Their faux-cathartic confessionals are overwrought and hollow. They must be faking it: how could anybody’s interior monologue truly be this trite and banal?
Their rollicking pop-metal is enjoyable on a pantomime, role-playing level, but you don’t believe a word of it. The clunky, off-the-peg lyrics are there because they need something to fill the quiet bits between their cleverly soaring choruses. Lurid over-writing meets a paucity of imagination: effusions such as Loverboy’s “I beg for attention in small doses / Leave the scene smelling of dead roses” can leave you wincing.
Their tunes are aerodynamic but beneath is all pretend teen-angst and bluster, diligently buffed to a mock-heroic shine. Earnest singer Josh Franceschi puts in a shift, a composite, factory-settings frontman, yet is oddly anonymous and forgettable. His accent ranges from plummy home counties to estuary East End to transatlantic twang: when he unleashes a histrionic howl of “I’m Mr Reckless with a capital R!” on Reckless, you mentally applaud him for keeping a straight face.
With choruses to hang a leather jacket on, You Me at Six are just the type of band that some rock publications pretend to find exciting, yet are precisely as threatening to the status quo as are Coldplay (with whom they share a penchant for great, people-pleasing tunes and terrible lyrics). When an encore of Lived a Lie sees them lined up stage front to chant “We are believers!”, you wonder: in what, exactly? “You look byoodiful, Lunnun!” yells Franceschi. The crowd go absolutely wild and then they go absolutely home.

• At Reading/Leeds festival, 25, 26 August. Tickets: readingfestival.com
Back in 1996, before they had become British folk celebrities, Steve Knightley and Phil Beer boldly hired the Royal Albert Hall, and astonished the music industry by filling it with devoted followers. Now they were back for the fifth time, celebrating their 25th anniversary in the company of a 30-piece choir and an impressive array of guests. Comparisons with Clapton were inevitable, “but he doesn’t hold raffles”, said Beer.
This was far more satisfying than their last appearance here, for they achieved a delicate balance of folk-club intimacy while staging a complex, varied show. They started with a theatrical treatment of Widecombe Fair, a spooky Dartmoor story that featured Beer on fiddle, perched high above the stage. Then they were joined by double bass player Miranda Sykes for a lengthy set in which Knightley’s vivid stories of West Country life were mixed with traditional songs and constant changes of musical direction.
The bravest section came in the first half, with new choral settings for Centenary, their album of first world war music and poetry, now featuring Devon’s Lost Sound Chorus, and with Jim Carter’s powerful reading of Siegfried Sassoon’s To Victory, followed by the bleak song Hanging on the Old Barbed Wire. Later, they switched to Americana, with fine dobro work from Phillip Henry on Katrina, and banjo from Canadian Leonard Podolak on The Coo Coo Bird. The finale, of course, included the singalong attack on bankers, Arrogance, Ignorance and Greed.
• At Curzon music festival, Clevedon, 21 May. Box office: 01275 871 000. Then touring until October.



For 37 years Jane Freeman, who has died of cancer aged 81, was known to millions as the opinionated cafe owner Ivy in the long-running television comedy Last of the Summer Wine. She won the part through her performance as the seaside landlady who swung between aggression and ingratiation in the 1972 TV version of Peter Terson’s radio play The Fishing Party. Ivy’s husband, Sid, was also imported from that production, in the form of John Comer.
For them the series’ writer Roy Clarke created scenes that, while more varied and subtle, recalled the world of McGill’s seaside postcards; Ivy was like the northern women depicted by the comedian Les Dawson. Comer’s death in 1984 robbed Ivy of marital sparring, but she retained her bite. Affronted when Kathy Staff’s Nora Batty found ants under a table, she declared: “The only pests we get in here are customers.” And, remembering Sid, she declared to Thora Hird’s Edie Pegden: “Of all the gifts you can be born with, perhaps the most precious you can hope for in a man is a low IQ.”
Last of the Summer Wine, combined with further television jobs for The Fishing Party’s director Michael Simpson, whom Jane married in 1971, enabled the couple to buy and renovate a Cotswolds cottage. They would return there, however briefly, when separated by their work – he as a producer, notably of The Bill; she, when Last of the Summer Wine, Crossroads and Within These Walls allowed. She also toured with Staff in the 1991 revival of the 1950s play Sailor Beware! as the formidable Emma Hornett, a role created by Peggy Mount.
In a profession that often requires many names, Jane made a good start. Born Shirley Ann in London to Arthur Pithers, a railway engineer, and his wife, Joan (nee Dewhurst), she was considered by her family to be “very spirited as a youngster, joining the Brentford boys in their spitting competitions”. With her father’s early death in an accident on the London Underground and her mother’s remarriage and move to Methyr Tydfil, south Wales, she shook off the Shirley Ann, adopted the surname of her stepfather, Russell Evans, a solicitor, and it was as Jane Evans that she played Malvolio in Twelfth Night in a Vaynor and Penderyn school performance.
No one in the family can say why she then switched to Freeman when in 1955 she graduated from Cardiff College of Music and Drama (now the Royal Welsh College of Music & Drama), embarking on a career, which, for a while, seemed unlikely to flourish. But then came an offer of work with the Osiris Players, a company of seven women which had been founded by Nancy Hewins in 1927 and was still led by her. 
Travelling in two Rolls-Royces with set, costumes and lights, the company toured schools, church halls and other spaces in England, Scotland and Wales, performing a repertoire that consisted mainly of Shakespeare. Paid 10 shillings a week, plus half a crown to watch other actors at work, each member of the company was involved in the stage management of the two or three performances given on most days; those with licences drove the cars towing the caravans in which the company slept. Two or more of the minor roles could be played as one, and there was doubling: Jane’s Portia in The Merchant of Venice was also Old Gobbo and as much of Lorenzo as remained in a truncated Act Five.
In her 18 months with Osiris, Jane played around 40 parts in roughly 1,000 performances. There followed a dozen years in which, with weeks on the dole, she worked off and on with companies nationwide until, in 1967, at the invitation of the director Peter Dews, she embarked on the first of several seasons with the Birmingham repertory company, where she met Simpson, Dews’s successor. He had been tempted into live theatre after producing an array of classics for BBC schools television.
During those years Jane moved in an instant from the genteel to the lubricious as Kath in Joe Orton’s Entertaining Mr Sloane (1967). She also played Emilia to the Othello of Michael Gambon (1968) and Winnie in Samuel Beckett’s Happy Days, which, in the spirit of Hewins, she gave in a converted chapel in Bridgnorth, Shropshire. In 1969 she embodied the wan gentility of Amanda Wingfield in Tennessee Williams’s The Glass Menagerie and was blessed with a gift of stillness that made poetry of her Olga the following year in Three Sisters.
With the success of Last of the Summer Wine, she appealed to both stage and TV audiences. In Keith Waterhouse and Willis Hall’s Worzel Gummidge – The Musical (1980, then touring), she joined the TV show’s stars Una Stubbs and Jon Pertwee. Then in the 1983 Blackadder pilot series, The Black Adder, as the peasant woman Tully Applebottom she nearly committed bigamy with Rowan Atkinson’s Prince Edmund to spare him marriage to Miriam Margolyes’s Infanta. Later came a run of pantomimes with the comedian Max Boyce, in which she delighted huge audiences as the Fairy Queen.
Her last stage role, in 1992, came in Chatsky, Anthony Burgess’s version of a satirical verse comedy by Alexander Griboyedov, Woe from Wit. In a cast that included Colin Firth, Dinsdale Landen, John Fortune and Jemma Redgrave at the Almeida, north London, before a six-week national tour, Jane exercised her comic skills in the plum role of Countess Khryumina, who accuses others of being deaf and dogmatically retells as fact what she has only half heard.
After Michael’s death in 2007 Jane continued to work, despite suffering a neurological condition that affected her hands and feet.
She is survived by her half-brother, Russell, two nephews and three nieces.
• Jane Freeman (Shirley Ann Simpson), actor, born 12 June 1935; died 9 March 2017
Name: Kris Marshall
Age: 43.
Appearance: Eerily familiar.
Yes, his face rings a bell. Who is he? He’s an actor.
Been in anything I might have seen? Do you remember My Family?
Do you mean the execrable sitcom My Family? That’s the one. He played Nick.
I never saw it. How do you know it was execrable?
Word got round. He also starred in a string of annoying BT adverts between 2005 and 2011.
I have no memory of those. He was in Love Actually. And until recently he starred in the crime series Death in Paradise.
They both passed me by, but I’ve only heard bad things. He’s an actor – take my word for it.
Fine. Has this Marshall got any new projects lined up? He’s reported to be the new Doctor Who.
I see … wait, what? According to inside sources, Marshall has been selected to replace Peter Capaldi as the Doctor.
Peter Capaldi? What happened to David Tennant? Do you even own a television?
I mostly watch documentaries about canals. Why are we talking about this now? Doesn’t the Doctor traditionally regenerate at Christmas? Apparently it will happen sooner, making Marshall the 13th incarnation of the Time Lord.
A white man playing the Doctor – well, I never. Richard Ayoade, David Harewood and Miranda Hart were rumoured to be in the frame at different times, but the programme makers seem to have taken the safe route.
What’s safe about an actor who has only ever been in terrible shows? They’ve also risked the wrath of Doctor Who fans who, by and large, aren’t happy.
Are they ever happy? No. They didn’t like the choice of Capaldi, or Matt Smith before him.
How do we know the rumour is true? Has the BBC confirmed? A spokesman said, “No casting decisions have yet been made on series 11.”
So it’s all rubbish. Possibly, although the current series is only the 10th, so the decision may already have been taken.
There’s still hope! Maybe it’s Olivia Colman! Unlikely. Ladbrokes have stopped taking bets on Marshall, with so many punters backing him.
Do say: “Welcome aboard, Kris! Yes, it is actually even smaller inside than it looks from the outside.”
Don’t say: “I loved you in that awful thing I never watched.”
“Are you ready to lose your mind, London?” yells Anderson .Paak, clad in beanie, bomber jacket and black jeans and leaning in to a frothing, selfie-ing crowd. He’s standing atop an exercise bench he’s been pogoing on for the last couple of minutes, exhorting the room to “Bounce, bounce, bounce”.
Then, barely pausing for breath, he darts behind the drumkit to lead his band the Free Nationals through a brief, bristling burst of funk, before slowing the beat for some hazy, sweet R&B. This, clearly, is a man unafraid of breaking a sweat to bring the house down.
It’s an unassumingly hungry performance from an artist who knows what defeat tastes like and, now tasting success, is firmly focused on keeping it. In the same way Kanye West was fuelled by the sting of rejection the feted producer felt when he first recast himself as a rapper, shaping his bruised, score-settling breakthrough records – Anderson .Paak’s crisis was also the making of him. After losing his job on a marijuana farm, the singer found himself homeless, with a young family in tow. Desperate, .Paak gambled their future on the music he’d been recording in his downtime, luck smiling in the form of Shafiq Husayn of R&B collective Sa-Ra, who offered the one-time music teacher a job and a place to stay while he finished his debut album.
Six years on, .Paak’s a Grammy-nominated “overnight success” who’s collaborated with Dre, Kendrick Lamar and TI, often singing his own hard luck/good fortune tale tonight, be it the triumphant swagger of Come Down, or the carpe diem philosophising of Am I Wrong. In these tracks, struggle is inevitable but triumph is always within reach, .Paak testifying on the latter song, “I believe in fate”, with conviction – and why wouldn’t he?
.Paak delivers his inspirational tales with flourishes of Chicken Grease funk, occasionally humping the air and training his marksman-like aim at the dance floor. Stretching the laser-guided pop of Luh You into a groove-laden epic littered with false endings and euphoric peaks, it’s clear that maximum effort at all times is his approach. While his unfussily virtuoso Free Nationals occasionally wig out into gleeful fusioneering like kindred spirit Thundercat, .Paak’s pop-savvy discipline keeps him forever trained on the song.
His ballads – fevered, carnal, relatable – roil with the kind of yearning revelations that hit you when you’re wasted in a taxi at 3am, racing to the next party, while his bangers are smeared with enough dreamy synths to blur the line between the club and the bedroom. So much so, it’s almost no surprise when Syd from the Internet bounds on stage for an impromptu run through her anthem Girl. But it’s .Paak’s story centre stage tonight, culminating in The Dreamer, the closing track from his breakthrough LP Malibu, the triumphalist, gospelised funk building and building as .Paak pogos on his bench, leading the chant of: “Don’t stop now / Keep dreaming.” Corny, maybe, but that’s the truth his life has taught him, and he sells it tonight with a fervour and a flair that’s irresistible.
• At O2 Arena, London, 18, 19, 21, 22 April. Box office: 0844 856 0202. At Koko, London, 21 April. Box office: 020-7388 3222. Then on UK tour until 6 May.
On the face of it, A Rose for Emily by the Zombies seems an odd song choice to end each episode of the acclaimed, record-breaking podcast S-Town – the appearance of the William Faulkner short story that shares its title in the first episode notwithstanding. S-Town deals in real-life southern gothic: it is filled with chewy, sometimes incomprehensible Alabama accents and small-town intrigue and tragedy. But it is hard to imagine a more English record than Odessey and Oracle, the album from which the track originates, with Zombies frontman Colin Blunstone’s cut-glass enunciation, and its songs about parks in Hertfordshire and harmony vocals that sound like the Beach Boys, had the Beach Boys hailed from the home counties and met in a public-school choir. If you didn’t know your Faulkner, you would never guess A Rose for Emily was based on a story set in Mississippi. In the Zombies’ hands, the titular heroine sounds like an Eleanor Rigby-ish spinster pining away somewhere in the British suburbs, a spiritual sister of downtrodden Sylvilla in the Kinks’ Two Sisters or the BO-afflicted lady hymned in the Who’s Odorono.
And yet, you can see why it works. For one thing, A Rose for Emily possesses an eerie melancholy; for another, the Zombies’ retelling of Faulkner’s tale concentrates on the heroine’s otherness, her isolation, her sense of chances missed, her frustration, her pride – themes also found in the life of S-Town’s central figure, John B McLemore. Even the song’s own backstory seems weirdly fitting. By the time Odessey and Oracle was released in April 1968, demoralised by the failure of the two advance singles taken from it, the Zombies had split up. It attracted virtually no attention for another year, when its final track, Time of the Season, became an unexpected hit in the US. With no one to enjoy the fruits of its success, promoters hastily assembled fake versions of the band – featuring none of the actual members – to tour the country. Odessey and Oracle, meanwhile, took another 25 years to start showing up in best-albums-ofall-time lists. By 2008 it was legendary enough to warrant a live performance in full by the band’s surviving members – the group are doing a live tour of the album this year, including a show at the London Palladium in September. Like McLemore, it was long after its moment had passed that the record became known and hailed as the stuff of genius. Now, millions of podcast downloads later, both he and the album are suddenly more famous than ever.
When Allan Cubitt’s intense British-Irish psychological crime drama The Fall arrived in 2013, its initial five episodes proved darkly compelling and intelligent. It was so sophisticated that French television snapped it up for a remake, so creepy it won an Edgar Allan Poe award. Gillian Anderson, hypnotically cool as DSI Stella Gibson, arrived in Belfast styled in pristine white shirts unbuttoned to the precise point at which her seductiveness undid some male colleagues. She was seconded by the Met to the PSNI (Police Service of Northern Ireland) to review the progress – or lack thereof – in a murder investigation and quickly deduced that several unsolved rapes and murders were connected.
This was not a whodunnit but a whydunnit; we knew from the outset that the killer was handsome family man and caring social worker Paul Spector (Jamie Dornan). An intricate game of cat and mouse ensued between Gibson and Spector, who both kept diaries – hers a record of her twisted dreams, his a chronicle of his sick fantasies and murders – to give a disturbing spin to the familiar notion that to hunt a killer one must share some kind of rapport with them.
Playwright Cubitt, celebrated for Prime Suspect 2, was inspired by his research on the BTK Killer – who terrified Kansas between 1974 and 1991 – and gave his show a title referencing TS Eliot’s poem The Hollow Men (“Between the idea/ And the reality/ Between the motion/ And the act/ Falls the Shadow”); lines from which Spector writes in his journal. As Spector’s interwoven “normal” life and secret sins unravelled and he went on the run, we were ready for the second season.
Alas, the second series started losing its grip while Spector groomed his troubled tearaway teen babysitter to unnerving purpose. But the unintended theme emphatically remained Remind Me Never to Get Kidnapped in Northern Ireland as the cops bungled surveillance operations and the handling of a surviving witness.
Then came The Fall’s appalling fall. Having been led by Spector to the woods where his victim Rose was close to death in a car boot, the cops left the killer on the periphery with Stella’s latest bit of muscular relief DS Tom Anderson (Colin Morgan, hunked up nicely since Merlin). A dim-bulb gunman, who resented Spector’s efforts to help his abused wife, located them. Responding to the gunfire, it’s Spector to whom Stella runs (a slight that would make the wounded Tom a tad cool to her in series three). And she’s all but keening over the killer, wailing “Noooo!” and pleading for medical attention. Stelll-aaaahhh! Really? It felt positively indecent. Plus, of course, wouldn’t it have been better if he had died there?
There was no coming back. Series three was a cavalcade of preposterousness. Poor Rose, the eyewitness plucked from the jaws of death, is hospitalised just feet from her tormentor. Spector comes round with convenient amnesia. His nurse knows he’s a monster but warms to him and slips him a little something when he’s finally borne away to a facility where the shrink lets him groom a new patsy. And the only explanation for the ending — with a bang, admittedly, but whimpers from more than a few disappointed viewers — was that Spector was abused in boyhood. Oh. Dear.
“Yes, we know it’s cool to play here but our job remains the same,” said Ezra Furman as his early afternoon slot got underway at the large Outdoor theatre. The crowd was disappointingly small for a set that paired low-key staging with buoyant energy.
Furman is an engaging and funny performer, providing sharp repartee between songs. At a festival that has been short on political statements, the musician went straight for the jugular in a rant against billionaire Philip Anschutz, owner of the company behind Coachella. Anschutz has been linked to donations to anti-LGBT groups – which he has denied – and Furman lambasted him not only for this but also for being a proponent of “invasive oil exploration”. It was an eloquent and fiery intro to the suitably titled Tell Em All to Go to Hell, a high point of the set, Furman’s anger imbuing the track with a layer of emotion that was in curiously short supply during the rest of his act. BL
British musician Joseph Junior Adenuga’s attempt to take the US began in earnest on the hottest day of Coachella. Skepta’s resurgence in the UK is thanks to him embracing grime in its purest, most potent form, and that is what the crowd here was exposed to in his early afternoon set, which he performed with only DJ Maximum and a BT phonebox for company. The grime staples of call and response and demands of high energy from the crowd weren’t lost in translation: from the moment he emerged, performing the title track from his Mercury-winning album, Konnichiwa, he put to bed any doubts about whether Americans would get grime. The highlights, though, came when he performed tracks that reached beyond his core following, namely That’s Not Me, It Ain’t Safe and Shutdown.
The audience formed circle pits and took part in mass singalongs, and Skepta was joined on stage by longtime hypeman Shorty and Frisco for a version of their track Detox, about the power of partying. There was a clear anticipation for Shutdown, with the track’s opening sample “Trust me, daddy” shouted after every song. When it finally did come, it was the signal for moshing that continued into the set closer, Man. If this was a sign of things to come for Skepta’s US takeover, then he could once again be the person to take grime to new heights. LB
As the crowd’s energy started to intensify along with the desert heat, Chicago indie band Whitney made a casual stroll to the stage to give fans and curious newcomers a taste of their debut album, Light Upon the Lake, released last summer. It proved to be something of an endurance test for those who find a falsetto voice grating, and lead singer Julien Ehrlich’s stretched vocals were dwarfed by such a grand stage. Things improved with their slightly darker songs, such as Polly and Golden Days – a winsome track that Ehrlich says is “about the opposite of love” – and an instrumental interlude that gave the band a chance to shine. They also added a cover of Lion’s You’ve Got a Woman, a single released in March, and some new material, but it did little to prevent the general feeling of apathy by the time they left the stage. BL
In the air-conditioned surroundings of the new Sonora stage, Show Me the Body seemed determined to bring some chaos to the chillout room. People sat on beanbags and sofas, hiding from the sun, as the group appeared on stage. Lead singer Julian Cashwan Pratt was joined by a guitarist in an Anaheim Mighty Ducks jersey and a pair of tights over his head, knocking out metal riffs.
That was possibly the calmest moment in a set that showcased the hardcore-tinged efforts the band are known for. Pratt was joined by a singer who grabbed audience members while shouting lyrics, before jumping into the crowd and crawling around on his back. The contrast between a stage decorated like a children’s playground and the intensity of what was happening both on it and in the audience was as incongruous as it gets. From there the band resorted to their usual setup of bass, drums and vocals to rattle through the hardcore from their latest album, Body War. The crowd became more manic as they played with curious onlookers either having to choose between joining the melee or making an exit. LB
After a decade spent inching their way up the indie-rock food chain, Future Islands’ status escalated after their revelatory Coachella debut three years ago. The Baltimore three-piece’s blue-collar melodrama is at once classic rock, synthpop, and a little bit disco, but painted with minor-key melancholia. The music’s timeless quality feels at home in grubby bars and festival main stages alike.
Singer Samuel Herring – dressed like an office clerk in an old button-up, brow perpetually furrowed and writhing like a lonely burlesque dancer – has a captivating gruff sensuality. He sounds like Bruce Springsteen singing Tina Turner and punctuated his performance with stoic mid-song musings such as: “This ones for the young ones. It’s a fucked up world, but we’ll make it through.”
People stretched far into the polo fields, with many lounging in groups on the floor as the afternoon heat gave way to an evening breeze. “Get up offa that grass,” Herring barked, before launching into the band’s still-excellent sleeper hit Seasons. Hundreds sprang to their feet. JK
“I wanna see y’all turn the fuck up right now. I wanna see some moshing in the crowd,” Philadelphia newcomer Lil Uzi Vert implored to a packed Sahara tent, his Technicolor dreadlocks a-flowing. The audience, as young as they were enthusiastic, duly complied. It was not the last moshpit he incited during a Sunday afternoon set in which he brought his jeweller on stage to show off “where he gets his ice from” while instructing the crowd to “get out ya Snapchats, ya Instagrams”.
Lil Uzi Vert’s flow is no better than something you’d find in a middle-school lunch-break rap battle – it’s nothing but repetitive phrases and chants. Some of the bass-blown beats are body-moving, though, and occasionally he nails a catchy hook. With that, he has become one of the fastest rising rappers in the US in the last year. It did lead to awkward moments: there was something alarming about a tent of mostly white youths shouting along with a black man singing “All my friends are dead” while everyone else laughed and danced. JK
An Oscar-winning film composer taking a major spot at Coachella was always a tantalising prospect, but one that left some major questions lingering. On a mammoth stage with a crowd of thousands – most of whom being twentysomethings waiting to watch Kendrick Lamar – just how would a series of film themes be received?
This question was partly answered as Hans Zimmer came on stage to the sounds of Dreams Are Collapsing from Inception and was met with the sight of confused millennials trying to figure out just how to dance along (clue: it ain’t easy). “It takes a special kind of crazy person to bring an orchestra to the desert,” Zimmer said, before musicians who proceeded to take us through some of his greatest hits. The Pirates of the Caribbean theme was an crowd favourite, while King of Pride from The Lion King initially excited then confused phone-lifting festivalgoers who were expecting Circle of Life.
Zimmer brought out a number of vocalists and then, as with pretty much every act this weekend, he introduced a very special surprise guest: Pharrell. The pair performed Freedom, one of their tracks from Hidden Figures, much to the delight of the crowd. But the greatest moment was still to follow as Zimmer followed elements of his Dark Knight trilogy score with Time, the closing song from Inception. It was an exhilarating spectacle, and was met with an electric response. The gamble paid off. BL
Lorde used her late-evening slot to showcase material from her forthcoming album, Melodrama. Starting off with a portion of her lead single, Green Light, performed staring straight down the barrel of the backstage camera, there was an assured confidence that could have easily seen her as a headliner.
After older tracks such as Tennis Court and the Disclosure collaboration Magnets, she told the audience to expect surprises and said her new album is about the “dichotomy” of having a fantastic night out turn to dust. Although her banter sailed over some heads, Lorde’s self-belief and delivery worked – a surprisingly minimalist setup that saw the Kiwi spend much of the time on stage unaccompanied save for backing singers (and some dancers suspended behind her in a clear box). Whether or not fans get the intricacies of the mindset she’s sketching out in her new work, at its core this is music too well-crafted to fail.
Even with so much new material, the crowd maintained their attention, and tracks such as Homemade Dynamite and Sober exhibited the sophisticated pop she specialises in. Royals and a full version of Green Light finished off a set that showcased a pop star able to hold her own on the biggest of stages. LB
Justice first emerged a decade ago as a central force in a wave of French electro that gave so many stateside millennials their first taste of dance music. Even though their sound hasn’t changed drastically in that time, their new album, Woman, and their headlining set on Sunday proved they sound fresher than all the EDM pretenders who claim their influence.
The blase duo, clad in bomber jackets and with cigarettes hanging from lips, dropped a relentless hour of hard, dark, and fastidiously slick electro that had the crowd loose, squeezing the last drops of dancing from tired legs. They postured as if to close with their eternally fun re-remix of Simian’s We Are Your Friends, but in typically challenging fashion they curveballed into a high-tempo, old-school techno number that wouldn’t have seemed out of place at Love Parade in 1993. Crowds were lukewarm all weekend but Justice closed the festival on a high note. JK
Aside from Radiohead and a surprise appearance from Michael McDonald, the lineup for this year’s festival has been largely lacking in the older acts that, in previous years, have been a steady fixture. So scheduling New Order to close the Mojave tent on the final night felt like something of a treat for those feeling starved of familiar setlists filled with tried and tested bangers.
Despite opening with 2015’s Singularity, the performance was not as predictable as many might have expected but it was soon followed with Your Silent Face . It was a similar format from then on, a mixture of the new and the old, appeasing the hardcore fans while also helping to push their recent material. The band, who laid the groundwork for the EDM acts that have become synonymous with Coachella, chose to focus on their more electro-leaning tracks: a successful strategy with the eager-to-dance crowd but one that meant that, as with their 2013 set here, some classics were left out.
Other than making a poorly judged joke about Barry Manilow’s sexuality and some awkward dancing, Bernard Sumner was a masterful ringleader, and by the time Regret, Blue Monday and Joy Division’s Love Will Tear Us Apart came around, it became abundantly clear that to survive, Coachella must continue to embrace the old as well as the new. BL
The history of British supermodels in music is not an illustrious one. From Naomi Campbell’s questionable 1994 R&B outing Baby Woman to Kate Moss playing a pallid Bardot to Pete Doherty’s cut-price Gainsbourg on Babyshambles’ La Belle et la Bête in 2005, the road from magazine advertorial to musical legacy is full of potholes.
Karen Elson, however, has been gleefully bucking trends all her life. The teen nicknamed “the ghost who walks” at school and feted by Chanel’s Karl Lagerfeld as a “mixture of something from the middle ages and a mutant from another planet” is still in demand 20 years later, while carving out an authentic career as a singer-songwriter too.
In 2010, Elson made her first album, named after that school days sobriquet and produced by her then-husband, Jack White. Seven years on, the marriage is history and so, too, are the American roots-stylings and murder-ballad theme of her debut, replaced by the Laurel Canyon-meets-Haworth moor sound and intimate rumination of recently released follow-up, Double Roses.
The album shimmers with loss, regret and newfound freedom and finds Elson at her most confident and beguiling. But although the 38-year-old cuts an assured figure as she steps on the stage in a long, black, fitted dress and gracefully pulls on an acoustic guitar, her repeatedly pressed-together lips and hesitant glances at her seven-strong band betray doubt. “How are you?” she asks the expectant crowd, her smile broad but voice timid. “Fabulous?”
Once the delicate strains of a sizable harp begin, Elson puts her game face on and unleashes her warm, breathy voice – which has notably grown in beauty and strength – over the very English, flute-adorned folk of Wonder Blind. She immerses herself in the spectral loveliness of Double Roses, with its nagging harpsichord, and closes her eyes to quietly recite the Sam Shepard poem that ends the song and gave her album its name. Having spent a lifetime assuming guises, Elson is just as seductive at playing the siren on a saxophone-driven version of Donovan’s Season of the Witch, her hands wafting into the air and through her flame-red hair as, guitar-free, she moves to the pulsating psychedelia.
It’s a tantalising hint of what direction Elson might go in next, but for now she seamlessly blends gothic blues such as The Ghost Who Walks and The Thief at My Door with ethereal pop gems Distant Shore and Call Your Name. Even when, as in The End, it’s hard not to read into Elson’s very personal songs details of her equally public life, her grace and talent overcome speculation. Yet her nerves persist. “So far, so good?” she asks.
Roy Harper’s Another Day allows Elson to hide behind someone else’s pain, yet she’s most mesmerising when voicing her own experience, especially on the last song, Wolf. And despite singing the line “I admit defeat”, Elson’s latest pose is a genuine triumph.
London’s own top orchestras are on a high at the moment. So the old implicit idea that visiting orchestras, especially from Germany, provide an opportunity to hear how the core repertoire really ought to be done no longer washes. Mariss Jansons’ Bavarian Radio Symphony Orchestra concert at the Barbican underlined the point.
Don’t get me wrong. The Munich-based orchestra is a band of fabulous quality. The weight of their sound, the sheen of the strings and the technical ability of their principals are all beyond question, as is Jansons’s famous control and touch. But this all-Russian programme, with one wonderful exception, was not revelatory, let alone definitive. The Bavarians gave us one way of doing these pieces – a very good way and always exceptionally well played – but it’s not the only way.
Prokofiev’s Classical symphony, No 1, with which Jansons began, embodied this. Everything was exquisitely polished and balanced. The ensemble was whip-smart and knowing. Graceful little curlicues in the score were ideally presented, neither too ostentatious nor too obscured. Tempi were unhurried and agreeable. Jansons smiled a lot.
But it never really felt like fun, or a joyful rediscovery of the piece, in the way that the Norwegian Chamber Orchestra, with a much smaller ensemble, achieved a month ago in London’s Cadogan Hall. Where the Norwegians got gloriously inside the symphony’s carefully constructed defences, the Bavarians remained respectfully outside it. It felt like a journey through amazing scenery with the windows firmly closed in one of those brilliantly upholstered and engineered cars they also make in Bavaria.
There were times in Shostakovich’s own first symphony, which followed Prokofiev’s, when similar thoughts occurred. Can the 19-year-old composer really have expected the first movement of his 1924 Petrograd conservatoire graduation exercise to sound as refined as the Bavarians made it? I doubt it. But Jansons is a conductor who gets Shostakovich, and with an orchestra of this quality, the detailing was superb and the sheer seriousness of the piece compelling. Orchestral solos from the clarinet, flute, oboe and cello were first-class, with Jansons getting his string sections to play with a huge range of tones and colours. The quirkiness was never allowed to overwhelm the symphony’s much darker aesthetic.
It was, though, in Rachmaninov’s Symphonic Dances that this concert came together most authoritatively. Here once again, the range of string tones was exceptional, from fierce and emphatically angular in the assertive opening dance to gossamer light in the spectral waltz of the second. But this is also a work in which new sounds meet old, in which an alto saxophone, perfectly played, sings what feels like a lament from the heart of old Russia. Jansons has always been one of the finest conductors of Rachmaninov’s orchestral music, and his handling of these three late pieces confirmed that standing afresh. The work is a symphony in all but name, and Jansons ensured that it got the engaged and serious reading that it deserves.
On a stage made up like a teenager’s bedroom from the 90s, a girl in a diamante-studded denim jacket is making a motivational speech that covers vaginas, judgmental people and her love of pink clothes. Girli – otherwise known as Milly Toomey, a 19-year-old – tends to pontificate in this fashion before each song, which is helpful for two reasons. First because her half-rapped lyrics – about complaining neighbours and “fuck boys” among other things – get slightly swallowed up on stage. And second because it proves how earnest she is, something you might not have been able to identify through her retro dress sense and fashionably cringeworthy sound (sugary DIY pop delivered in a suburban London accent), which both suggest a high level of knowing playfulness.
She’s yet to release an EP, but Girli already has some earwormy gems in her portfolio – including Girl I Met on the Internet, Not That Girl and new track Hot Mess, which sounds a bit like X-Ray Spex covering Cool for Cats – and they are all brought to life here with help from Kitty, her “sexy hype girl” and DJ. On the surface Girli may resemble Lady Sovereign as produced by PC Music, but it’s more accurate to think of her as a musician in the indie tradition – it’s just that the sound of indie nowadays is crude synths, Taylor Swift-style big pop choruses and feminist-slanted rap. It’s certainly a heritage the devout, school-age crowd seem to acknowledge, as they ecstatically sing along to Jamie T, Kate Nash and the Wombats as they’re blasted into the venue pre-show. The London indie scene rises again, it seems, but this time in a girlier guise.
Kishori Amonkar, who has died aged 84, was one of Hindustani music’s finest classical singers. A specialist in the khyal style, which emphasises emotion and improvisation, she was known for her rich, soulful voice and for combining innovation with tradition; she also mixed her classical work with an interest in popular songs and film music. India’s president, Pranab Mukherjee, said that her death was “an irreparable loss to the world of Indian music”.
Although recognised as a leading exponent of the Jaipur gharana (a community of musicians who share a distinctive style), she developed an individual approach that reflected other gharanas – which brought her criticism as well as praise. She argued that “one should not teach students the limits of this art … There are none. But one has to understand the grammar – that is why one is taught the ragas.” She became known for the ease of her singing, and for what one Indian writer described as her “painful melancholy”.
Kishori was born in what was then Bombay, now Mumbai. Her father, Madhavdas Bhatia, died when she was six, leaving her and her two siblings to be brought up by their mother, Mogubai Kurdikar, a celebrated classical singer who had a profound influence on her career. Mogubai had been taught by Alladiya Khan, founder of the Jaipur gharana, and passed on these vocal techniques to her daughter. She was an exacting teacher: Kishori said that her mother would sing her a sthayi (a phrase or line of a Hindustani composition) just twice, and she was expected to concentrate so hard that she learned and understood the song in that short time.
In her early career Amonkar travelled with her mother to performances, accompanying her on the tanpura, the stringed instrument used to provide drone effects. While working with her mother, and watching her perform, she became concerned at the way that female classical musicians were treated, in particular that they were not always fairly paid.
In her 20s, Amonkar reportedly lost her voice completely for two years, and only began singing again after being treated with Ayurveda, traditional Indian medical techniques. She said that the break helped her to develop her individual style, rather than copy what she had been taught.
After establishing her reputation as a classical singer, Amonkar – Tai, as she became affectionately known – was attracted to film music, singing the title song for the 1964 blockbuster Geet Gaaya Pattharon Ne, apparently to the disapproval of her mother, who wanted her to concentrate on classical styles. Even so, she returned to film music later in her career, composing songs for the 1990 movie Drishti.
Although one of India’s finest singers, she never sought international fame. She was notoriously hard to interview, did not enjoy travelling abroad and limited the number of concerts she gave. She did not like to perform more than once a week, even at the height of her career, preferring to stay in her music room, bent over the harp-like swaramandal with which she accompanied her singing. Her riyaaz (rigorous music practice sessions) sometimes lasted for eight to 10 hours a day. Before concerts, she often spent time alone rather than socialising with other musicians.
Famous for chastising audiences if she felt that they were not paying enough attention, on one occasion she refused to perform because she considered the audience to be not suitably respectful. She was quoted as saying that “music is not just about words and beats. It is also about the emotion behind the rendition.” And that “music is a dialogue with the divine”. Her many recordings included Live in London (1998) and Sampradaya: Carrying Forward a Tradition (2003).
She received two of the Indian government’s highest civilian awards. In 1987 she was awarded the Padma Bhushan, which had also been awarded to her mother, and this was followed in 2002 by the Padma Vibhushan. In 2011 she was the subject of a documentary, Bhinna Shadja, in which the tabla virtuoso Zakir Hussain argued that she was one of the greatest Hindustani singers of all time.
Her husband, Ravindra Amonkar, a schoolteacher, predeceased her. She is survived by their sons, Nihar and Bibhas.
• Kishori Amonkar, singer, born 10 April 1932; died 3 April 2017
Yuja Wang had promised Schubert, Brahms and Chopin for her Royal Festival Hall recital in London. But by the time she walked on to the platform, the Schubert – two of the Three Piano Pieces, D946 – had been dropped, and the order of the other two works had been reversed, leaving barely an hour of music from her advertised programme.
So Wang launched straight into Chopin’s 24 Preludes, Op 28, in a performance that only occasionally flared into life – predictably enough in the numbers that are most technically demanding – but which too often resorted to tapering off the ends of phrases with diminuendos and ritardandos to conjure expressive effects. Her Chopin playing never for a moment seemed either personal or instinctive, just calculated and contrived.
After the interval, Brahms’s Handel Variations, Op 24 evidently demanded a different frock from the earlier Chopin, although Wang’s approach to the music hadn’t changed so strikingly. Of course, the variations were played immaculately, but they never took on individual characters, and remained a shapeless sequence, capped by a strenuous rather than climactic fugue.  Perhaps to compensate for the loss of the Schubert at the start of the evening, there was a generous selection of four encores. The first was Scriabin’s single-movement Fourth Sonata, which suddenly brought Wang’s playing to life, flashing and darting with exactly the right kind of nervous energy. This was Wang at her best, in music that requires technical brilliance and a bit of irresistible devilry rather than expressive point-making.
Fast cars and Hollywood have always been a crucial part of American identity, with the former helping to shape the cool identity of the latter, adding an aspirational accessory to aspirational imagery on screen. In turn, cinema was America’s subconscious writ large; the American dream played out across multiplexes nationwide. Anyone could become anything they wanted, and their exploits were projected before the eyes of millions at 24 frames a second.
In the past decade, the retooled Fast and Furious franchise (the eighth chapter of which speeds into cinemas this week) has taken that relationship to the next level, turning cars into a status symbol of almost religious importance. They’ve always denoted cool, courage and wealth, but now they aren’t just vehicles with which to smash speed limits and chase villains – they are vehicles of social mobility in and of themselves. Few would have predicted it, but right now the clearest example of the American dream on screen is a macho telenovela with a $250m budget.
With its resolutely blue-collar heroes and diverse cast, the series feels tailor-made for the American dream narrative. Like so many blockbusters, it tells the story of ordinary guys who can do extraordinary things, particularly when they’re behind the wheel. It’s perhaps unsurprising that cars are the ideal vehicle for this message when they are such a transcendent status symbol. It doesn’t matter if you’re working class or a billionaire – having a great car elevates you above your peers. In that respect, it is a great equalizer, proving, as the series so often does, that it doesn’t matter who you are or where you come from but only how you drive.
Cars are the means with which the central heroes pursue the American dream, but the films notably represent a very male version of that quest. The old cliche about flashy cars being an extension of the male ego is truer than ever in this universe. The majority of the heroes are men, and although the female drivers are just as tenacious behind the wheel, problems arise the second they put their feet on solid ground.
Working hard to ensure the male gaze is central to blockbuster film-making, the only thing the films fetishize more than cars is women. They’re shot with the exact same leery lens, with close-ups lingering over bodywork as male characters lick their lips. Fast cars or fast women: it’s all the same to them. Every film ends with a near-identical montage of anonymous bikini-clad babes displayed alongside our heroes’ beloved cars. At the end of the day, they’re both just trophies.
In that sense, cars provide a surprisingly safe and utopian space within the series, where the sexism and objectification of the outside world is briefly forgotten and all that matters is how well you can drive. This safe space is not just metaphorical but literal, considering the staggering abuse the cars and their occupants withstand while sustaining barely a scratch. The perfect encapsulation of the series’ collision of male egos and its sanctification of the car is a scene in Furious 7 in which the cockney ninja Jason Statham and the melting potato Vin Diesel crash headfirst at high speed in what should be a lethal game of chicken – but in this universe, it proves about as dangerous as an actual chicken.
The series adopts the American dream not only in message but in form, delivering a blockbuster ruled by dream logic more than trivial things such as physics. Offering the most liberal interpretation of gravity since Interstellar, Furious 7 delivered three of the most ridiculous blockbuster moments of the 21st century in the space of 20 minutes. First, the team drop five cars out of a plane before parachuting them on to a country road. Then Bryan (Paul Walker) sprints his way along the top of a bus as it slides off a cliff edge before jumping to safety – on to another car, obviously, not the ground – how very dare you. All this is topped by Dom Toretto (Diesel) jumping a car through three Abu Dhabi skyscrapers in a row. You don’t need a PhD in physics to know all of this is impossible.
But this world is ruled by fantasy and fun, not logic. It’s a world where asking how many cars it takes to destroy a cargo plane isn’t the setup for a bad joke, but a rational question with the answer: three.
Remember that moment in Speed where the bus jumps an impossible gap? The Fast and Furious films are like a magician saw that fumbled sleight of hand and realized it could be disguised a lot better if you made the leaps of faith greater and the cars faster. The bigger the spectacle, the bigger the distraction, the more audiences will accept in the name of entertainment. After all, it’s a dream – it doesn’t have to make sense.
Cars are so fundamental to the way this universe functions that in the end, being inside one is almost like being in a church. They offer salvation, protection, and no shortage of idols to worship. Cars don’t just help the team chase the American dream and better themselves: they’re there to catch the characters when they fall short.
There is one scene in Fast & Furious 6’s finale where the tank carrying Letty (Michelle Rodriguez) is jerked to a halt by the makeshift anchor of a muscle car as the characters are crossing an elevated bridge, catapulting her to her certain doom. Arriving from the opposite direction, Dom hangs out of the car’s door and intentionally crashes into the bridge’s railings, firing himself to her rescue like a tan cannonball. He catches her and they land on a car (it’s always a car). She asks: “How did you know there would be a car there to take our fall?” He replies: “I didn’t. Some things you just need to take on faith.”
The characters in these films worship cars, and rightly so, because within this world ruled by the twisted logic of the American dream, cars are everything. They are the tools with which our heroes make their fortunes and better their blue-collar lives. They are the weapons with which they fight, delivering more car-on-car action than Transformers fan fiction. And they are the armor that protects them, offering invincibility and escape. The Fast and Furious franchise breaks the laws of physics and laughs in the face of logic, but there is one rule that holds firm: anything is possible inside a fast car.
After Sweeney Todd with Bryn Terfel and Emma Thompson, and Sunset Boulevard with Glenn Close, this is the third of English National Opera’s semi-staged musicals and it is an almost total joy. Since the Rodgers and Hammerstein classic was recently lovingly revived by Opera North, there is not the same sense of rediscovery that there was with last year’s Sunset Boulevard. But it is a pleasure to hear singers of the calibre of Alfie Boe and Katherine Jenkins in the lead roles and to luxuriate in a 42-piece orchestra bringing out the rich colours of Rodgers’s score.
What strikes one is the adventurousness of the show itself. Its hero, Billy Bigelow – as in the source material, Ferenc Molnár’s Liliom – is a fairground barker who resorts to violence to cover his inarticulacy: even if one jibs at the acceptance of this by his wife, Julie, there are strange parallels, as Alfred Hickling has pointed out, with another protagonist of a musical work from 1945, Peter Grimes. But it is the radical re-imagining of the musical form that impresses. In place of an overture we get the Carousel waltz that introduces the story’s key elements in pantomime. In Billy’s Soliloquy, the show also pioneered the character-defining monologue, which was to become a feature of shows such as Gypsy and Sweeney Todd.
The only paradox about Lonny Price’s excellent revival is the use of the term “semi- staged”: it looks pretty complete to me. James Noone’s designs, projecting images of a New England fishing village on to a set of curved sails, have the subdued beauty of Andrew Wyeth’s paintings. Josh Rhodes’s choreography is a full-blooded affair, at its best in a hornpipe that the dancers perform with virile agility. The ENO orchestra, under the baton of David Charles Abell, also occupies a raised platform and becomes a visible part of the experience: even that over-used anthem, You’ll Never Walk Alone, is rescued from its football associations by our being able to see the accompanying harpist as well as hear the un-churchy voice of Brenda Edwards.
Billy himself is the show’s problem: how do we warm to a man who abuses women? The opening sequence reminds us that he was the product of domestic violence. Boe also admirably conveys the character’s complexity, combining a bear-like roughness with hints of an underlying gentleness: the big switch in his soliloquy when he suddenly imagines what it would be like to have a daughter – “you can have fun with a son but you have to be a father to a girl”– is beautifully done. Meanwhile Jenkins’s Julie is no passive victim but a hard-headed realist who knows perfectly well what she is getting into: she renders her big numbers – especially What’s the Use of Wond’rin’ – with a rapt sincerity that perfectly conveys the confusions of love.
There is good support, as the show’s second couple, from Alex Young as Carrie and Gavin Spokes as an Enoch Snow who moves from mooncalf idiot to sanctimonious capitalist. Even if my interest wanes when we get to the sententious Starmaker, Nicholas Lyndhurst lends him a silvery dignity and Derek Hagen as Billy’s evil tempter and Susan Kyd as the carousel’s earthy proprietor are both sharply defined. It is said that Molnár refused Puccini permission to turn his play into an opera. Watching this production, you’re glad that it fell to Rodgers and Hammerstein to make it into a sombrely memorable musical.
• At the Coliseum, London, until 13 May. Box office: 020-7845 9300.

China is set to allow the release of more Hollywood films as part of a trade pact with the United States.
The South China Morning Post reports that a higher number of movies from the US will be permitted to be shown on the mainland as a sign from Beijing that it is taking steps to cut its trade surplus with the US. China is also expected to increase its imports of American soy, pork and beef as part of the agreement, government researcher Mei Xinyu told the newspaper.
Tension over trade between the countries has been heightened in recent months following the election of Donald Trump, who has been critical of US trade deals with China. Trump had threatened to impose punitive tariffs on Chinese imports in response. However, the president held “very frank” and “very positive” discussions with Chinese premier Xi Jinping at Mar-a-Lago last weekend, according to US secretary of state Rex Tillerson, easing fears of a trade war between the countries.
As part of a bilateral trade agreement signed in 2012, China has maintained a cap on the number of foreign films that can be shown each year, to ensure that Chinese-qualifying films account for 60% of box-office share. Last year, the annual quota of 34 films was relaxed to 38 in a bid to boost anaemic Chinese box-office returns. A renegotiation of the quota agreement between the two countries is due to be conducted this year.
News of an increase in Hollywood releases in China is likely to be received enthusiastically by a film industry that considers the Chinese market as crucial to its future prosperity. The country is currently the biggest single export market for US films, but limits to the number of releases in the country have prevented greater growth.
Most writers and comics spend months – even years – honing scripts and refining gags. Chicago improvisers TJ Jagodowski and David Pasquesi make mincemeat of all that, plucking from thin air a one-act, multi-character play that is as funny, shrewdly observed and emotionally complex as many a slaved-over work. Right up there with the best of the Pajama Men and Improbable Theatre, they really are Zen masters of their art. I found their unshowy and beadily intelligent improv blissful to watch.
There are no frills, gimmicks or audience participation, just two middle-aged men building a story detail by extemporised detail. It begins with two office workers wondering at the late arrival of a third. One of them wears a new watch, bequeathed by his dead dad; the other, touched, spontaneously phones his own father. On these bare bones, fragments of a tale are fleshed out, in which an elderly couple fret about macaroni etiquette, a 7-Eleven attendant kvetches about his uncle Marcel, and a driver with blood spattered across the grill of his car “has no idea if it was a kid or a raccoon”.
It’s all played in a strikingly low key, as Jagodowski and Pasquesi let their off-the-cuff but pointed dialogue play out at an everyday pace, following where it leads. Tonight, it doesn’t lead to closure: the show ends abruptly after 45 minutes, its story unsatisfactorily concluded. In every other regard, however – as actors, comics, improv virtuosos – TJ & Dave give full enjoyment.
Better Call Saul returns this week with its third series, although you’d be forgiven for not noticing. The new series has commanded much less anticipation than those before it, possibly thanks to accusations that the show isn’t delivering the same whizz-bang thrills as Breaking Bad.
To be fair, the naysayers have a point. Like Breaking Bad, Better Call Saul is the story of one man’s terminal corruption. However, by this point in Breaking Bad’s lifecycle Walter White had jumped the rails to such an extent that he had indirectly caused an air disaster. Meanwhile, over on Better Call Saul, Jimmy McGill has basically made an advert and tampered with a document.
Even Bob Odenkirk has expressed frustration at Better Call Saul’s glacial pace, recently promising the Radio Times that things would be “picking up speed” over the next 10 episodes, admitting: “It’s an incremental journey, and it’s a little too slow for some people.”
Now, I don’t hold much truck with these complaints. Better Call Saul is not Breaking Bad, and it’s silly to expect similar things from it. It is a prequel, and everyone knows how the story ends, so that leaves plenty of room to methodically unearth character motivation. I defy anyone to show me a more nuanced depiction of fraternal rivalry anywhere in modern culture. Plus, if you can trust anyone to deliver a satisfying story, it’s going to be Vince Gilligan and Peter Gould. Better Call Saul is fine. It’s going to turn out great.
That said, I have a small wishlist of things I want it to do. For instance, one of the most fascinating aspects of both series has been the black-and-white flash-forwards to the present day. These show McGill, bored and anonymous after the events of Breaking Bad, slogging away at a Cinnabon in Omaha under the pseudonym Gene. There is clearly a story to be told here – and better yet, a story that allows Odenkirk to play his real age – but so far we’ve only seen glimpses. You can understand the reluctance to leap forward too far – remember that Jonathan Banks isn’t around in the present day – but these flash-forwards show a man desperate to remind the world of the impact he once made. I’d dearly love to see more of these.
I also want to see Jimmy and Mike share the screen more often. After being brought together in the first series, their storylines were basically cleaved last year, with each of them too mired in their own issues to properly interact. It has been fun to see each of their stories told simultaneously, especially because we know that Mike will end up beholden to both Jimmy and Gus Fring. But I miss watching their antagonistic, frustrated interplay. Hopefully they’ll collide again this year.
Finally, and this is a tiny point, but Better Call Saul has made no secret of the fact that Gus Fring is turning up this season. That’s all well and good, but there is one character I’d love to return more than anything else: Sobchak. Poor Sobchak only appeared in one scene in Better Call Saul’s first series, and in it he basically just got punched in the throat, but the fact that he was played by Steven Ogg – Trevor from Grand Theft Auto V – meant that he was automatically a stand-out. Better Call Saul is one of the best shows on television, and people who complain about it are misguided, but God knows it’d be a thousand times better if Sobchak came back.
Better Call Saul is on Mondays at 10pm on AMC in the US, with new episodes every Tuesday on Netflix in the UK.
Between his first recording session in 1944 and his death in 1991, Miles Davis changed the course of music many times. The first of these came with the short-lived lineups he assembled for a New York residency and three studio sessions between January 1949 and March 1950. The nine-piece lineup was unusual – few jazz bands used a French horn – and the gigs attracted little attention. The sessions produced a handful of singles for Capitol Records, later collected as an album called Birth of the Cool – these ensured the band’s shadow would prove longer than all but a handful of its contemporaries.
The recordings were the result of hanging out after hours at arranger Gil Evans’s basement flat. The punchy, brightly coloured Venus de Milo was one of three tracks the group recorded that was composed by saxophonist Gerry Mulligan. The epithet “cool” isn’t entirely helpful, suggesting a prizing of style over substance: this music is never aloof or detached. Rather, this is what you got when you tuned down the frenzy of Charlie Parker and Dizzy Gillespie and allied it to the kind of sophisticated big-band arrangements Duke Ellington pioneered. Davis was a fan – and a part – of both traditions: not for the first time, what he crafted was a fusion of preceding forms that changed what would follow.
Touring Europe had a profound effect on Davis. In France, he felt respected as an artist without question or caveat: this had never been the case in his racially segregated homeland. Certainly, he was sure he would never have been approached by a movie director during a US nightclub residency and asked to compose music for a film. When Louis Malle made just that offer to Davis in November 1957, Davis accepted the challenge. The soundtrack to Malle’s Ascenseur pour l’Échafaud (Lift to the Scaffold) was recorded in two days in December. The band – a local pick-up group, including expatriate American drummer and bebop pioneer Kenny Clarke – were given little more than some rough ideas Davis had jotted down in his hotel room the night before. On arrival at the studio they found the film’s star, Jeanne Moreau, holding court at a makeshift bar; loops of footage from the film were projected while they improvised, with Davis suggesting that whatever they played be in counterpoint to the images on the screen. It wasn’t the first jazz soundtrack to a film noir, but it’s an exemplar of the form: Davis’s careful, vulnerable, vibrato-less playing – sometimes using his mute, at others gently enhanced with echo – was tailor-made to snake through black-and-white shots of night-time city streets and imply turbulent moods swimming through shadowy rooms and behind inscrutable faces shot in stark closeup.
Davis had already formed and fired the group that would become known as his “first great quintet” (drummer Philly Joe Jones, pianist Bill Evans, bassist Paul Chambers and John Coltrane on saxophone) when, days after returning from Paris, he re-recruited five superb musicians and began working as a sextet. Lineup tweaks were frequent, and by March 1959, the group featured Jimmy Cobb on drums, Wynton Kelly on piano, Chambers, Coltrane and additional saxophonist Cannonball Adderley. Yet for one of two sessions on 3 March, Bill Evans returned to the piano stool, so fundamental did Davis feel his style was to the material the group was about to record. The two March sessions – and another on 22 April, again with Evans taking Kelly’s place – would give the world Kind of Blue, on which Davis and friends once again upended convention and took jazz off on a new expedition. The set texts tell how Kind of Blue broke the mould, with the players rejecting chords as the basis of improvisation and adopting modes. Another way of thinking about it would be to do as Davis seems to have intended: reflect on the album’s title and listen while six master musicians reconfigure the blues for a new era.
Not content with reinventing small-band jazz with the quintet and sextet, Davis was at the same time in the middle of a series of recordings with Gil Evans that bore more similarities to classical orchestral scores than what was generally considered jazz. Sketches of Spain was the third of these releases and is perhaps the most ambitious. Davis had already begun exploring Spanish music when he was introduced to Joaquín Rodrigo’s Concierto de Aranjuez early in 1959. Davis and Evans worked up an arrangement of the second movement for trumpet rather than guitar: its ubiquity as a piece for brass bands today underlines how influential this reading would become. That it showcases some of Davis’s most confident playing is only part of the story: what matters is that he inhabits the character the notes suggest, and, through his trumpet, finds a truth in the music only the greatest artists could ever have located.
There was a constant churn of collaborators through the early 60s but, with the recruitment of long-time target Wayne Shorter as the eventual replacement for Coltrane on sax in September 1964, Davis finally had what many have described as the greatest group in jazz history. That appraisal may do the “second great quintet” – Davis, Shorter, bassist Ron Carter, drummer Tony Williams and pianist Herbie Hancock – an injustice: they’re clearly one of the finest bands ever assembled, in any genre of music.
By the end of 1965, the new quintet were more than familiar with their leader’s counter-intuitive mindset, and keen to take him out of the comfort zone of a live repertoire that stuck to standards and ignored the adventurous new material they had been recording. Before a December residency at the Plugged Nickel in Chicago, and behind Davis’s back, Williams – barely out of his teens – suggested to Carter, Shorter and Hancock that from the first note of the first set they should play the opposite of what tradition, convention and their leader’s improvisations implied. The four musicians agreed, and didn’t waver even when, on arrival at the venue, they found out that the shows were being recorded by Columbia. The first night wasn’t taped – Davis was arguing with the label – but seven sets from the next two nights were.
Over the course of these performances, released in full in the mid-1990s as the box set The Complete Live at the Plugged Nickel, you can hear the band as they work out ways to become even greater than the considerable sum of their parts. It’s hard to pick a single moment to represent the combination of genius and madness all five were channelling, but by the third night, when Davis has begun to understand what was going on, the group found a way of combining the outre adventurousness of Ornette Coleman’s and Coltrane’s bands of the time with the sharp-suited cool Davis had made a visual and audible trademark. An unexpected roll through Jerome Kern’s Yesterdays from the last set finds the group in total command of this new way of working.
The album the quintet cut during the first studio visit after the Plugged Nickel shows, Miles Smiles, wrings every last drop of creativity out of a band relishing newly unleashed senses of purpose and possibility. The sessions were quick: a few minutes’ rehearsal, then one live take. The recordings crackle with risk-taking, and it’s difficult not to get swept away by the infectious sense of unshackled creativity every player brought to the table. The way Freedom Jazz Dance emerged from the mists is particularly fascinating. The initial run-throughs (released last year on an absorbing box set, also called Freedom Jazz Dance) show Carter struggling to hear the tune anew, having played on its original recording with Eddie Harris a few weeks earlier. After he finds a fresh heartbeat, ideas quickly take shape, but it isn’t until Davis suggests to Williams that he play triplets on every beat (“I can’t play it that fast!” the drummer complains, yet barely a minute later is doing so) that the last piece of the puzzle falls in to place. Davis comes in early but they keep going, Shorter’s and Hancock’s solos conversationally addressing the questions Davis had posed in his opening bars, Carter and Williams achieving what ought to be impossible by keeping the bedrock solid while ensuring it constantly moves and changes.
The quintet dissolved following Carter’s departure and there was never really a constant, consistent Davis studio band afterwards. The British guitarist John McLaughlin’s appearance in the studio for the sessions that became the 1969 album In a Silent Way was unplanned: he was in New York to start work with Lifetime, Tony Williams’ new band, and was invited to the studio by Davis the night before. They weren’t familiar with the material, and the version of the title track that ended up on the album is effectively the sound of the musicians gently and carefully feeling their way through the complicated melody. The results – almost unbearably fragile, and feeling all the more precious for the sense that it could all fall apart at any second – are astounding. It’s a piece of rare and intense beauty, infused with both a wonder and a gradually unfolding understanding that seem to have been as real and unexpected for those playing as they are for the listener. Miraculously, it retains this sense of revelation every time you play it. Taking advantage of every development available – from amplified instruments to multitrack recording and postproduction techniques that anticipate sampling – Davis was taking his own ideas and music through the doorways technology and culture had newly opened.
Bitches Brew was the record to really scare the jazz purists away: a chaotic, crowded, often cacophonous double LP, it was as extreme as Davis had got. That he was accused of “selling out” at the moment he pushed his music to the limits of listenability probably says more about his detractors than it does about the man or his creative output. The Jimi Hendrix influence is often cited as reaching its apogee on this track, with the title’s nod to Voodoo Child; but in truth, this is Miles, the native son of East St Louis, going back down the Mississippi to reconnect anew with his blues roots. The album version differs dramatically from the one the live band had been playing, and not just because twice as many musicians had been assembled for the session. It’s slower, anchored by a simple drum track played by Don Alias, who had been brought in to play congas: he’d heard a rhythm on a visit to New Orleans and felt it would fit this track better than the one the two drummers (Jack DeJohnette and Lenny White) had tried on earlier, aborted takes. Note, too, that title: Davis isn’t stalking or hunting his prey, hiding in the undergrowth ready to pounce – he’s out there in the open, letting his quarry know that he’s on its tail. That sense of fearless indomitability is there in every note of what is, even in a career brimming with standout moments, a notably thrilling and strident performance.
From the point where Hancock first used an electric keyboard on a quintet session, detractors had been complaining that Davis was making rock music. Among the many problems with that view was: if In a Silent Way was “rock”, what on earth was Bitches Brew? Davis was operating beyond genres, pigeonholes and categorisations. He’d been using the slogan “Directions in music” on his album sleeves for years. He remained, as the 1957 album title put it, Miles Ahead.
Yet in the first half of 1970, Davis finally made a rock album. A Tribute to Jack Johnson was released in a muddle and failed to replicate the impact of Bitches Brew – partly, its maker intimated, because it was the soundtrack to a film about the controversial black heavyweight boxing champion and was suppressed by those who still felt threatened by the thought of black success in a white-dominated world. There were only two tracks, both Teo Macero-edited patchworks, both clocking in more than 25 minutes – but there’s no arguing with the music. Again, the session relied on accident and happenstance. Herbie Hancock wasn’t supposed to be there – he only dropped in to the studio on his way home from the shops. The basic boogie riff that kicks the record off wasn’t what they’d planned to record: it was just McLaughlin, bassist Michael Henderson (a teenager Davis had stolen from Stevie Wonder’s band) and drummer Billy Cobham jamming while they waited for Miles to get ready.
In the control room, Davis heard the warmup and told Macero to run the tape: Hancock set down his groceries and was ushered to the Hammond organ stool. Davis left the control room to prowl the studio, waiting to hear where he could fit in: after couple of minutes, McLaughlin changed chord but Henderson didn’t, and Davis took his opportunity. His first note is the only one that features in both chords, its blast from his trumpet resolving the tension of the apparent mistake with a moment of astonishing musical acuity and insight. Davis proceeds to solo for the next eight minutes, some of the strongest, most strident playing of his life: as if the simple format of the rolling blues-based stomp had freed him from the uncertainties and doubts that often made his playing so emotional, yet could sometimes leave him sounding tentative. By the time McLaughlin quotes Sly and the Family Stone’s Sing a Simple Song, the track has taken us off into another galaxy of sound and imagination.
Influenced by everything from funk bands to avant garde classical composers, Davis’s ensemble became ever less bound to the past, even as its reliance on grooves and cyclical riffs (particularly from the rhythm section) re-emphasised its debts to blues. But whatever this new music was, it certainly wasn’t pop.
Evidence of what his mid-70s band were up to exists in several supersized portions, doled out across three official live albums and a slew of bootlegs. Nothing sounded like what this septet were up to back then, and nothing has sounded like it since. The first track on Agharta, recorded in Osaka in February 1975, is a 35-minute collision of ideas, structures and sounds given the title Prelude on the record (but which is, in effect, a medley that includes the tracks Tatu and Maiysha as well as Agharta Prelude), that is among the most singular musical moments of the 20th century. Themes and moods are built and destroyed; ideas are assayed, discussed between the instruments, then rejected, only to be replaced by something else. It’s as if the ceaseless quest for something new, the defining characteristic of his creative life, had intensified as Davis found himself skating ever closer to the edge. Though Davis continued to record, this marked the end of the parts of the journey that took him furthest and deepest into the great musical unknown.
A hundred years after the Russian Revolution, history, according to most historians, had pronounced its judgment. October 1917 had been relegated to a past that would never be repeated, just like the tumbrils in Paris in 1793 or Charles I’s public execution outside the palace at Westminster. History doesn’t repeat itself, not even as a farce, but its echoes remain.
What I wanted to do in The Dilemmas of Lenin: Terrorism, War, Empire, Love, Revolution was to place Lenin in proper historical context as an extremely gifted political strategist and thinker who, more than any other historical figure, dominated the shape of the last century. To achieve this meant studying in detail the two streams of political thought – anarcho-terrorism and European social democracy – that Lenin absorbed and transcended to create a new synthesis.
He was neither saint nor totalitarian despot, the two roles assigned to him after his death in 1924. Hidden underneath the chaos and misery created by the horrendous civil war between the Red and White armies, (the latter backed by Britain, the US, France and their allies) there was the thread of reason.
Lenin never lost sight of this thread and in his final years, crippled by a stroke and confined to his study, he returned with vigour to denounce the failures of his own side, and insisted that if the revolution was not regularly renewed it would fail. “A Bolshevik who does not dream is a bad Bolshevik,” he would often repeat. His own dream was a state modelled on the defeated Paris Commune of 1871. This dream was the backdrop to my novel Fear of Mirrors, which I began writing soon after the fall of the Berlin Wall (and has been recently republished by Verso). In the decades that followed, the tragedies of the Revolution never completely left my mind, for October 1917 had been a formative event for my generation and its ghosts stalked the streets of Paris, Saigon and Prague in 1968.
Rereading the histories of 1917 and Lenin’s own writings without instrumentalist intent, brought back many memories and moments of discovery. Of the four works I consider indispensable, two were written by Russians and two by North Americans. All of the following works are helpful in broadening one’s understanding.
1. History of the Russian Revolution by Leon TrotskyThis passionate, partisan and beautifully written account by a major participant in the revolution, written during his exile on the isle of Prinkipo in Turkey, remains one of the best accounts of 1917. No counter-revolutionary, conservative or liberal, has been able to compete with this telling.
2. Russian Revolution 1917: A Personal Record by NN SukhanovThis book was necessary reading for all early historians of the revolution. Sukhanov, a left-Menshevik hostile to Lenin, was actually present in Petrograd in both February and October. He is one of the few, if not the only, reliable eye witnesses who recorded Lenin’s arrival at the Finland station and then accompanied him to the Bolshevik headquarters an hour later. His self-deprecatory account of the February outbreak conveys his style of writing:
Tuesday, 21 Feb 1917. I was sitting in my office in the Turkestan section [of the Ministry of Agriculture]. Behind a partition two typists were gossiping about food difficulties, rows in shopping queues, unrest among the women, an attempt to smash into some warehouse. ‘D’you know,’ one of these ladies suddenly declared. ‘If you ask me it’s the beginning of the revolution!’ These girls didn’t understand what a revolution was. Nor did I believe them.”
3. Ten Days That Shook the World by John ReedA buccaneering east-coast American radical despatched to cover the revolution is hypnotised by it and his reports combined to make a book that had a huge impact in the US and beyond. Decades later, Warren Beatty made it into a movie, Reds, in which the most electrifying sections were the appearances by witnesses who had known Reed.
4. Through the Russian Revolution by Albert Rhys WilliamsWilliams was already in Petrograd when Reed arrived and acted as a calming tutor to his wilder and more activist colleague. His book is in some ways a more solid work, helped by several conversations with Lenin and other Bolsheviks, as well as their opponents.
5. Year One of the Russian Revolution by Victor SergeThis was Serge’s first non-literary work, composed in the late 1920s and, as he put it, “in detached fragments which could each be separately completed and sent abroad post-haste”. The book is both a testament to the popularity of the revolution and the hard necessities imposed on Red Petrograd confronted with the White counterrevolution. He was working on Year Two when he was permitted to leave Stalin’s Russia in 1936. The secret police decided to keep this manuscript and that of a complete novel, both of which disappeared from their archives.
6. The Commissariat of Enlightenment by Sheila FitzpatrickA riveting account of the institution that implemented the cultural and educational policies of the revolution after 1917. The Commissar was Anatole Lunacharsky, whose self-description as “a Bolshevik among intellectuals and an intellectual among Bolsheviks” was slightly exaggerated, given that the central committee was dominated by intellectuals: Lenin, Bukharin and Trotsky to name a few.
7. The Autobiography of a Sexually Emancipated Communist Woman by Alexandra KollontaiKollontai, a staunch opponent of the first world war, broke with moderates who supported the war and joined the Bolsheviks, becoming a vital figure in the women’s liberation movement for which she struggled throughout her life. She was the first woman ever to be appointed an ambassador to Norway and wrote: “I realised that I had thereby achieved a victory not only for myself, but for women in general … When on occasion I am told that it is truly remarkable that a woman has been appointed to such a responsible position, I always think to myself that in the final analysis … what is of a wholly special significance here is that a woman, like myself, who has settled scores with the double standard and who has never concealed it, was accepted into a caste which to this very day staunchly upholds tradition and pseudo-morality.”
8. Roots of Revolution: A History of the Populist and Socialist Movements in 19th-century Russia by Franco VenturiPermitted access to sealed archives in Moscow that contained the documents of, and regarding, anarcho-terrorism, Venturi made good use of them. While saddened that his Soviet colleagues were barred, he produced what is a historical masterpiece on the predecessors of the Bolsheviks.
9. Towards the Flame: Empire, War and the End of Tsarist Russia by Dominic Lieven The first chapter alone explains why the revolution was waiting to happen. A magisterial account of a decaying empire and a tsar who “created a hole in the centre of decision-making that he was unable to fill”.
10. The Tasks of the Proletariat in the Present Revolution/April Theses by Vladimir Ilyich LeninAt times of crisis, Lenin expounded his thought in the condensed form of theses that were explicit, crisply written and concise. He hated wasting words. In the April Theses he argued the case for a socialist revolution against “Marxist orthodoxy”. It was the success of this political approach with the mass of workers that shifted a majority of the urban electorate towards the Bolsheviks. Lenin’s success globalised Marxism and The Communist Manifesto became the most published text after the Bible.
One Direction’s Louis Tomlinson is not expected to face charges over an alleged assault on a photographer at Los Angeles international airport, according to prosecutors.
The 25-year-old singer was arrested on 3 March when he was travelling with his girlfriend, Eleanor Calder. Lawyers for the singer said he was “provoked” by the paparazzi during the incident. Calder is believed to have argued with onlookers who began filming the row.
The Los Angeles city attorney’s office said Tomlinson will be called to a hearing before the authority later this month.
A spokesman said: “Each of the parties will be interviewed regarding the incident and advised of the law and ways to avoid similar incidences in the future.
“Typically, there is no further action taken by our office after the hearing, though we do reserve the right to file charges up to one year from the date of the original incident should additional information or future actions require additional measures.”
An arrest record showed Tomlinson was held under citizen’s arrest, and the alleged offence was classed as a misdemeanour. Bail was set at $20,000 (£16,000) at the time of Tomlinson’s arrest.

It is a casting decision that has long puzzled fans and critics: how did Tom Cruise, who is said to be 5ft 7in (1.70 metres), come to appear as the 6ft 5in (1.95 metre) Jack Reacher in the film adaptations of Lee Child’s crime novels?
Now comes news that a rather more proportionally suitable star was in contention to play the hulking private investigator, with Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson revealing that he was turned down for the part.
Yup, luv the character. Bout 10yrs ago I went after the role, but Cruise got it. Was great motivation for me to always stay hungry. https://t.co/bwpZfEVIMm
The WWE wrestler-turned-action-star, who stands at 6ft 4in, divulged the detail on Twitter, in response to a fan declaring that he would be perfect for the role.
“Yup, luv the character. Bout 10yrs ago I went after the role, but Cruise got it. Was great motivation for me to always stay hungry,” he wrote.
Cruise starred as Reacher in two films: 2012’s Jack Reacher, and 2016 follow-up Jack Reacher: Never Go Back. The actor’s casting as the private investigator and drifter was criticised by fans of Child’s original novels, who felt that the actor was too diminutive for the part.
At the time Child defended the casting, suggesting that there were “no 6ft 5in giants out there” to play the role. “With another actor you might get 100% of the height but only 90% of Reacher. With Tom, you’ll get 100% of Reacher with 90% of the height,” he told the Wall Street Journal.
Johnson’s film career doesn’t seem to have been adversely affected by not playing Reacher. In 2016, he became the world’s highest paid actor, earning $64.5m (£51.6m) and supplanting the previous No 1, Robert Downey Jr.
Johnson’s latest film, Fast and Furious 8, is released in cinemas this week and has been projected to earn more than $380m at the box office by industry experts. Next up for Cruise, meanwhile, is a reboot of horror-adventure film The Mummy, which is due in cinemas in June.
High art needs all the friends it can get. Museum attendance is dropping all over the world, and earnest attempts to court the young and identify with the new are clearly not working. Something more eloquent is needed: unequivocal enthusiasm for great art in a language people in the 21st century understand.
How about a Louis Vuitton bag with RUBENS written on it in big gold letters over a reproduction of that 17th-century painter’s violent, exuberant and gorgeous work Tiger, Lion and the Leopard Hunt?
I can’t think of a simpler way to put great art at the forefront of modern minds. This is not a cynical exercise. The hunt painting is not a pop icon – yet – but a serious painting beloved by art connoisseurs. Jeff Koons, for instance.
Rubens is one of the great painters Koons has chosen to celebrate in a line of bags for Vuitton. Koons, a notorious appropriation artist, is infamous for turning kitsch images and objects into art, but for his range of handbags, rucksacks and other expensive accessories he is turning great art back into popular culture. Just as Andy Warhol created Warholised versions of Renaissance art, Koons has turned the old masters into fashion must-haves (if you can afford them – prices range up to $4,000).
For from rubbing Rubens in the dirt and reducing the sublime to the worthless, these luxury objects look to me like heartfelt homages to great art. Koons clearly has an erudite and passionate love of oil painting, for while his bags touting the Mona Lisa and Van Gogh’s Wheat Field With Cypresses may be easy on our brains, he is also bravely educating us by insisting on the glamour of Rubens, Titian and Fragonard.
Koons' subtle passion for art is concealed by his apparent belief in banality
Frago-who? This 18th-century French painter of frills, foliage and flesh was the last practitioner of the precious and playful rococo style that celebrated pleasure and came to be seen by revolutionary moralists as a decadent courtly aesthetic of escapism and indulgence. Many of his clients died under the guillotine in the French revolution. He was unfashionable then and is unfashionable now, but Koons has put his sensual painterly genius into the heart of the fashion world with a bag decorated with his 1770 painting Girl With a Dog, again emblazoned with the name FRAGONARD in gold.
This may not be such a surprising choice for Koons after all. Fragonard’s provocative painting of a partly nude young woman playing with a fluffy dog in bed has at least two similarities with his own creations. His giant floral statues of puppies are among his most brilliant subversions of what modern art is supposed to look like, and the painting’s voyeurism shares his appetite for blurring the line between art and pornography.
Notice this, and you see Jeff Koons in a different way. This is an artist who looks at – and thinks about – art from the past, and finds his most brilliant ideas there. The 18th-century rococo and the strange genius of Fragonard is not something he discovered yesterday. He has been drawing on the rococo for his sculptures for a long time. Similarly, his flamboyant super-pop paintings are nothing less than attempts to revive the energy of Rubens. A subtle passion for art is concealed by his apparent belief in banality.
Now Koons is sharing the art he most loves. The power of Rubens, the sensuality of Titian and the naughty painterly pastries of Fragonard clearly fascinate him, and he wants other people to see what he sees. This is not simply a line of luxury bags. It is an artist’s meditation on the masters, in handbag form. Picasso copied and reworked great paintings in his later years. Koons is offering a different kind of art lesson, and it is a joy. I want to see the names FRAGONARD and RUBENS glowing on Oxford Street, on Fifth Avenue, their masterpieces walking out of the museum into modern lives.
I have a writer friend who can’t abide Neil Gaiman. When I pressed him lightly on this once, the reasons for this disdain boiled down, as I recall, to a combination of Gaiman’s ubiquity and the tone of his writing voice. (There may also have been the way that he looks, or at least used to, as if he had stepped from the pages of one of his own books, as if he were the Prince of All the Goths. He looks a bit less like that now, and has a beard.)
The ubiquity is, though, a product of his industry, and if some might murmur that a graphic novel – he is “the author of more than 30 acclaimed books and graphic novels,” says the blurb – does not contain nearly as many words as a novel, he has also written many unillustrated words. In addition he has produced a good deal of non-fiction, in the form of introductions, addresses to conventions, profiles, and miscellaneous articles, and this book is a selection of those.
His tone of voice is readily identifiable. It’s the careful expository tone of a tale told to children, of a good, scary story that will keep them listening. I can see how this could get irritating, but it is at the heart of his technique and success. Here is the opening of his introduction to an edition of HP Lovecraft stories: “If literature is the world, then fantasy and horror are twin cities, divided by a river of black water. The Horror place is a rather more dangerous place, or it should be: you can walk around Fantasy alone.”
That, I think, is very good, even if it does not quite bear sustained scrutiny (you still have to walk around Horror on your own, surely?); and it also shows how adept he is at delivering scripts to be drawn up by artists. You can see the cities, the dividing inky waters, can’t you? There is also something in the image that reminds me strongly of The Lord of the Rings, a book which he devoured as a child. (“I came to the conclusion that The Lord of the Rings was the best book that ever could be written ... and I wanted to write The Lord of the Rings. The problem was that it had already been written.”) The other books he adored were CS Lewis’s Narnia tales (with reservations about The Last Battle), and – this came as a surprise – GK Chesterton’s stories, particularly those of Father Brown, and The Man Who Was Thursday.
Gaiman lives in the US now, but his imagination is, I think, very English, and very rural at that: “When I was growing up in England, Hallowe’en was no time for celebration. It was the night when, we were assured, the dead walked, when all the things of night were loosed, and, sensibly, believing this, we children stayed at home [and] listened to the twigs rake and patter at the window glass ... ” But as he says here, it is a miserable imagination that allows itself contact only with other similar imaginations.
This book is an excellent way of getting a purchase on the man who could be said to have almost single-handedly revived the comic genre, or made it respectable. It is also a great way of learning about the history of comics, science fiction and fantasy. We find out about the shoulders on which he stood – those of Will “The Spirit” Eisner, Diana Wynne Jones and Brian Aldiss, about whom he writes passionately and searchingly. Pieces about friends and collaborators – Alan Moore, Douglas Adams, Terry Pratchett – are relaxed, chatty, anecdotal (and, in the cases of Adams and Pratchett, who died before their time, melancholy). He is charming, enthusiastic, full of wonder. He is, at heart, the best kind of child reader: an adventurous one, and one willing to learn.
As an increasingly homogenised pop landscape reaches peak Sheeran, this collaboration between part of the Fat White Family and Sheffield electronic oddballs Eccentronic Research Council adopts a gleefully untamed, bull-in-a-record-shop approach. It’s an inspired mish-mash of Glitter Band tribal drumming, a howling wolf, tuneless saxophone squawking, heavy breathing and at least one narrative about castration; a sort of Cramps-meet-B-52s Hammer horror-rock monster. Guests range from a wailing Yoko Ono to the cowboy from the Village People (on schlock stomper Glory Hole). It should be an unholy mess, but songs as diverse as The Strangle of Anna (an outsider ballad sung by Slow Club’s Rebecca Taylor), Black Hanz (motorik electro psych) and I.D.S. (about Iain Duncan Smith, with the chorus “40,000 years of Job Club”) are held together by really sharp songwriting, and laden with pop hooks. There will be more considered and crafted albums released this year, but few that are so much fun.
This week we’re looking for your nominations of songs that feature or allude to proverbs or idioms in their lyrics or titles. For more on the theme, keep an eye on the comments below.
You have until 11pm on Monday 27 March to post your nomination and make your justification. Regular RR contributor who posts as attwilightlarks in the comments will select from your recommendations and produce the playlist, to be published on 30 March.
Here is a list of all songs previously picked and therefore ineligible for the series.
If you want to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions – and potentially blog about the process/selection for the Guardian – please email matthew.holmes@theguardian.com with the subject line “RR guru”, or make yourself known in the comments.
Here’s a reminder of the guidelines for RR:
Between 1968 and 1969, ensconced in London’s legendary bohemian flophouse The Pheasantry, Germaine Greer wrote a book that would change thousands of women’s lives. Scrawled in pen across her statement of intent, under the title The Female Eunuch Editorial, is the sentence: “My book on women, for which I have not yet devised a title, will be a collection of essays about what it is like to be a woman in 1969.”
Though it’s unlikely she knew it at the time, the publication of The Female Eunuch would give birth to a shadow work that would document the inner lives and experiences of women and men from across generations.
This shadow work would eventually become the General Correspondence series of the Germaine Greer Archive. From the initial avalanche of mail triggered by The Female Eunuch grew 50 years of letters, emails, faxes, telegrams and newsletters from academics, schoolchildren, radicals and housewives all over the world, now stored in 120 grey, acid-free boxes at the University of Melbourne Archives.
The collection offers a powerful, often amusing, sometimes perplexing glimpse into the lives of the women (and men) affected by her work and drawn into her orbit, as well as the many faces of Greer herself – academic, feminist, provocateur, confidant.
Delving into these records is a daunting and often disorienting experience. Archivists don’t just collect records, they collect record keeping systems. One of the guiding principles of our profession is that of original order – the concept that there is information and meaning implicit in the order and method in which records have been maintained.
Greer’s organising principle was egalitarian: correspondence is filed alphabetically by surname, organisation or project, regardless of date, subject or significance. A system such as this has obvious practical benefits for someone as busy as Greer, juggling television appearances, publishing deals and public lecturing as well as attempting to answer personal mail from a devoted readership. However, when we read the series as a document – as an archivist must in the process of cataloguing – the effect is dizzying.
Letters from grassroots feminists hoping to bring about the sexual revolution in 1971 sit beside those from Essex gardeners advising on the best way to protect apple trees from rabbits.
A letter from Sean Connery in 1972 requesting Greer’s phone number “as I have an idea for a project which could be interesting and fun” is sandwiched between theatre invitations and autograph requests. I like to imagine that the arrangement also has a touch of the diehard Marxist, giving equal prominence to noted author Margaret Atwood and Joe Public from Manchester.
Inside these files, time is displaced. There is a sense of disorientation while browsing through a folder and moving from printed emails to rapidly fading thermal fax paper, to telegrams and carbon copies.
Decades of changes in addresses, administrative assistants and literary agents are mashed together as we jump from a basement flat in Gloucester Walk, to the Tulsa Centre for the Study of Women’s Literature, to the rural solitude of Greer’s farmhouse in Essex and its legion of dogs, geese, doves and goldfish.
So, too, does Greer’s voice shift through these different periods. In the 1970s, she frequently answers unsolicited letters at length, sometimes entering into detailed correspondence on issues such as women’s liberation, abortion rights and contraception.
To a 17-year-old Australian girl called Penny, reeling from her encounter with The Female Eunuch, Greer writes:
There is a contribution which only you can make, and only which can give you happiness. Be true to yourself, dear Penny, and be assured of my regard for you.
Penny went on to write a women’s self-defence handbook and has a black belt in kung fu.
A 54-year-old man writes, asking Greer for suggestions of three to four books’ worth reading at his public library. She responds by suggesting he set up a secondhand book exchange and sends him a parcel of her favourites, including Madame Bovary.
To good friends, Greer often writes in a free association, beat-style ramble, breaking off to bake some bread in the massive stone oven that served as the foundation of her house in rural Tuscany. She returns in the evening with an anecdote about whatever particularly creative way her cat Boogaloo had courted death that week.
We are transported to the stone house Pianelli in Cortona where she beseeches friends to come and stay to escape the conservatism of Tory England during the Oz magazine obscenity trial in 1971 and, later, Thatcherism.
Greer tears around (and sometimes off) mountain roads in a Triumph convertible and reads The Thornbirds in between tapping what would become Sex and Destiny into an ancient, filthy manual typewriter borrowed from Newsweek’s Rome office.
This was her fortress of solitude among the madness of the 70s and 80s. To a neighbour she writes:
This is what I came for – the sereno, a kind of weather so clear that I can hear the shepherd singing to his sheep in a valley two miles away.
Her joy is palpable in these flimsy pink and yellow ochre carbon copies of her descriptions of the state of her garden and the gathering of wild herbs. Letters written during her whirlwind 1971 tour of the United States provide the other side of the picture, betraying a horrified fascination with American politics and culture.
A letter to lawyer and civil rights activist Florynce Kennedy gives an account of staying at the Hotel Chelsea and having dinner in a singlet and clogs at La Grenouille with Peace Corps founder Sargent Shriver.
To Richard Neville in 1971 she writes:
A rightwing revolution in America could mean the end of the world; can that be what Edward Heath is preparing for? Sterile screwnoses rule us all. I am deeply afraid again like I was when I was a little girl and the war was only just out of sight.
From New York, she tells her publisher, Sonny Mehta:
Jerry Rubin was trying to persuade me to come and live – come and die more like.
From the 90s onward, Greer finds less and less time for correspondence. She sends her thanks for a kind word scrawled on a postcard of a kangaroo or a printout form response apologising that she is unable to respond personally.
Despite this, she still treats it as something like a sacred duty to respond in some way to those who have approached her.
Greer’s Country Notebook column in the Sunday Telegraph, begun in 1999, resulted in an extraordinary amount of mail from old metal workers keen to explain to her the process of forging a carbon steel knife and Essex gardeners sending snapshots of English Bluebells in the wild.
To many of her correspondents, Greer seems to have been a talismanic figure able to bring scrutiny and justice to their own personal cause. One correspondent writes regarding the accused English witch Molly Leigh who died in 1746. When the people believed her spirit continued to haunt their town she was reburied facing north-south, at a right angle to the other graves in the cemetery.
Greer’s petitioner writes to recruit her to exhume and rebury Molly Leigh facing east-west (Greer’s response: Let Molly Lie).
A woman who runs a private museum in Chelsea writes several times offering to let Greer try on Queen Victoria’s underpants.
The psychologist and writer Timothy Leary, a man Nixon once described as “the most dangerous man in America”, writes from Sweden in exile: “I’ve loved you long. It’s about time we connected.”
Each believes in a mythic Germaine Greer. Most often, though, she just wants to be left alone.
The fascinating thing is that Greer has kept it all. Every letter telling her to go back to Australia and leave the Queen alone, every handwritten unified theory, has made its way into a carefully alphabetised file and been kept for posterity.
At first, the drive to keep everything seems baffling given the sheer volume of material and bizarreness of some of the requests. And, in her newspaper columns in the Daily Telegraph and the Independent, Greer has written repeatedly about the strain of answering her mail. In a 1995 column, she declared that:
All those demands for my favourite poem, recipe, book, colour, into my big new shiny black garbage bin. No more filing and cross-referencing.
But, of course, rambling letters from strangers continued to be filed, though the cross-referencing may have ceased.
Perhaps as an English scholar, well practised in the use of manuscript sources, Greer has an appreciation for another concept central to archival theory: integrity.
One of the modern patriarchs of archival science, Sir Hilary Jenkinson, has defined the role of the archivist as a calling: “His Creed, the Sanctity of Evidence; his Task, the Conservation of every scrap of Evidence attaching to the Documents committed to his charge.”
I can see more than a little of Greer in this definition. Across the archive we see retrospective attempts by her to complete the record, including employing an AV archivist at one point to document and source footage of the hundreds of television and radio appearances she has made over the years.
The archive as a whole has become something of a labyrinth for we archivists as we attempt to capture the complexity of its relationships. While we have biographies and Greer’s published works to draw on, there is much that is undocumented beyond this archive, perhaps existing only in Greer’s own memory.
Cryptic nicknames and references to places, people and events encountered early in records may be made clear 50 boxes later. Red herrings constantly present themselves – is “Rennie” Count Lorenzo Passerini or South African novelist Rennie Airth? Does “Fed” refer to Federico Fellini?
Attempting to describe the range of topics of discussion within a single file using subject headings leads to complex chunks of text that read like concrete poetry.
The description for the folder Correspondence SIN reads:
Chelsea Flower Show; Apples; Charoset; Seder; Birds as pets; Terminal care; The Female Eunuch; Prohibited books--South Africa; Bumblebees; Feminist films; Portrait of the Artist as an Old Lady (documentary); Paraskeva Clark; Women comedians; Sex and Destiny; Women’s underwear; The Sunday Times; Vietnam War 1961-1975; People’s Coalition for Peace and Justice; Taxicab drivers; Country Notebook (The Telegraph); Animal welfare; Dogs; The Guardian; Man-woman relationships; Rape victims--Bangladesh; Bangladesh--History--Revolution, 1971; Abortion; Advertising; Alka-Seltzer; Cave Creek Rainforest Rehabilitation Scheme; Homes and haunts; Travel.
In a column about her biographer Christine Wallace, Greer once stated that her archive “will take five years of genuine commitment to read”. One year in, I think this is a conservative estimate.
The Female Eunuch Editorial closes with a quote from Rainer Marie Rilke:
The great renewal of the world will perhaps consist in this, that man and maid, freed from all false feeling and aversion, will seek each other not as opposites, but as brother and sister, as neighbours and will come together as human beings.
Perhaps it’s sentimentality but, having waded through the compressed evidence of so many lives, I feel that in some small, symbolic way Greer’s correspondence achieves this. Her work can bring together novelists and gardeners, academics, prisoners and housewives, perhaps not always in agreement but in conversation.
• The Germaine Greer Archive will be accessible to researchers from the 27 March. Digitised items are available from The University of Melbourne Archives catalogue. To hear Greer’s thoughts on the archive, video of the public event Germaine Greer Meets the Archivists is available online. This article was republished from the Conversation
Janka Nabay’s songs are an edgy blend of ancient African styles and modern technology that reflect his own uneven career. In the 90s, he became a star in Sierra Leone by recording cassettes of updated bubu music, reworking traditional songs that were used in Islamic ceremonies by using keyboards, drum machines and multitracking. He fled to the US at the end of the civil war and worked in a fried chicken restaurant before reviving his career with help from David Byrne’s Luaka Bop label. His new album was constructed in the studio by using field recordings and backing tracks sent from Africa, along with keyboards imitating the sounds of horns and flutes, layers of shuffling percussion, sturdy bass lines and chanting vocals. It’s a strange but compelling set, with reworked bubu favourites such as Angbolieh matched against English-language songs including Santa Monica and occasional Caribbean vocal influences.
Let’s call it the Riddle of the Dark Horse: what do you get if you cross a Monkee, two Beatles, the man they called God, Paul McCartney’s banjo, India’s musical elite and a film about a mad professor spying on a Biba girl called Penny Lane?
The answer is Wonderwall Music. Released on 1 November 1968, three weeks before the White Album, George Harrison’s heartfelt, happily eccentric film soundtrack was the first solo record by a Beatle, the first album on the Apple label and a world music crossover before such a notion even existed. That it later lent its name to a Britpop anthem is easily the least interesting thing about it.
Newly rereleased in a boxset of Harrison’s solo work, Wonderwall Music encompasses tambura drones, Vedic chants, skiffle, ragtime, clip-clopping country, wah-wah squalls, woozy Mellotron, experimental sonic collage and, on Ski-ing, 100 seconds of Eric Clapton at his most raggedly explosive. The sound of Harrison’s musical curiosity taking flight, it is also an implicit expression of his disaffection within the Beatles, perhaps even an intimation of the beginning of the end.
After the Beatles ceased touring in August 1966, Harrison spent six weeks in India with Ravi Shankar, an immersion that led to a chain reaction of musical and spiritual epiphanies. On his return, his contribution to Sgt Pepper was the quietly assertive Within You Without You; much of the album left him cold. He was scarcely more enthusiastic about Magical Mystery Tour. While McCartney worked on the title track in the studio, Harrison produced coloured crayons from his painted sheepskin jacket and started drawing pictures. “My problem, basically, was that I was in another world,” he later said. “I didn’t really belong; I was just an appendage.”
Little wonder he jumped at an invitation, from American director Joe Massot, to compose music for Wonderwall, a film starring Jane Birkin as the objectified model who sends her oddball neighbour, Mr Collins (Jack MacGowran), into a voyeuristic frenzy. With its pop-art palette, psychedelic sex scenes, dingy domesticity and an uncredited Anita Pallenberg, Wonderwall is a curious period piece, less Blow-Up than Come Down. “It’s aged badly,” Birkin says. “I wasn’t very interesting! I was disappointed, but there are rather wonderful decors. And George was lovely.”
Massot, who died in 2002, sought original instrumental music for the film’s many dialogue-free scenes, and promised Harrison a free hand. “George took advantage of this by including a lot of Indian music in his score,” says John Barham, who worked on the project as arranger, player and a kind of conceptual interlocutor. Having studied at the feet – literally – of Shankar, Harrison’s understanding of Indian music had deepened beyond the naive sitar burr heard three years previously on the Beatles’ Norwegian Wood. He viewed Wonderwall Music as “partly an excuse for a musical anthology to help spread the word”, he said. “I used all these instruments that weren’t as familiar to western people as they are now, like shehnais, santoor, sarod, surbahars, tabla tarangs.”
Heavily spiced with Indian flavours it may be, but the album is a beguiling mixture of competing passions. Visiting Twickenham film studios, Harrison “spotted” each scene, marking where the music would be inserted, then working up basic themes at his home in Esher in Surrey. Initial recordings were made at Abbey Road on 22 and 23 November 1967, with harmonica maestro Tommy Reilly, session mainstay Jim Sullivan, and the Remo Four, a Liverpool quartet from Brian Epstein’s Nems stable. The Beatles’ manager had been dead only three months; Harrison may have felt the need to maintain a connection.
“We recorded backing tracks to accompany certain points in the film,” says Remo Four drummer Roy Dyke. “George had timed it all with a stopwatch: ‘We need one minute and 35 seconds with a country and western feel.’ Or, ‘We need a rock thing for exactly two minutes.’ Nothing was really written. We’d talk over ideas he wanted, play something, and he’d say, ‘That’s good, keep that. I like the piano there.’ It was very experimental. The idea was to set an atmosphere.”
Some of the results are lovely: the stately piano waltz of Red Lady Too; the richly cinematic Wonderwall to Be Here, on which Tony Ashton’s rippling piano melody is framed by Barham’s strings. The exotically funky On the Bed was inspired by a visit Harrison had made the previous year to BBC Television Centre, where Barham and Shankar were working on the music for Jonathan Miller’s production of Alice in Wonderland. “We were recording a scene where Ravi soloed and I played an accompanying Indian jhala [a rapid climactic flourish] texture on piano,” Barham says. “George was fascinated by the combination of sitar and piano. Back at Abbey Road, I played flugelhorn over George’s jhala. Later that day, Big Jim Sullivan, who was recording with Tom Jones, happened to drop in and played bass on the same track. It was a free atmosphere on those sessions. They were very creative and enjoyable.”
Wonderwall’s most experimental five minutes are Dream Scene, a sonically disorientating pick-and-mix of ambient backwards guitar, swooning Bollywood love calls, wailing flutes, treated electronics, disjointed harmonicas, atonal pianos, air-raid sirens, the chimes of a grandfather clock, nightmarish sampled voices and church bells. Harrison later dismissed it as “horrible stuff”, but it is not entirely fanciful to view Dream Scene as an enabling step towards the Beatles’ Revolution 9, the avant-garde sound collage pieced together by John Lennon six months later.
In December, a passing Monkee was press-ganged into service. “I’d met George when he was visiting Cass Elliot in Los Angeles, and I was dating Cass’s sister, Leah,” Peter Tork says. “Later, the Monkees met the Beatles in England, and he invited me to his house. He played the sitar and said: ‘I’m working on a soundtrack album, I’d love to have you play a little banjo.’” Tork had travelled without his instrument, so Harrison borrowed McCartney’s five-string banjo for the session – “which Paul couldn’t play – at least conventionally, because the folk five-string banjo can’t be restrung in reverse order for left-handers, it must be custom made. I played for 45 minutes, George said, ‘Thanks very much,’ and we went our separate ways.”
Tork’s breezy contribution didn’t make the record, but it can be heard 15 minutes into the film, after Collins is chided by his mother for spying through the wall. “And I did not get paid,” he laughs. “George said: ‘We’ll figure that out later.’ He knew that the honour itself was payment enough!” This regally offhand attitude to accreditation was not untypical, and became an issue on Harrison’s next solo record, Electronic Sound, when he used, without permission, improvised recordings made on the Moog by Bernie Krause. Much rancour ensued.
There were other superstar cameos. Ringo Starr – old faithful – adds his unmistakable swing to the groovy-bluesy Party Seacombe, while Clapton’s monster riff ensures that Ski-ing fairly steams along. Ski-ing was later borrowed by Kula Shakar for their song Gokula, earning Harrison a co-writing credit.
Although he had used members of the Asian Music Circle in London, Harrison wanted to draw directly from the tap-root of Indian music. In early January 1968, he spent a week recording at the EMI/HMV studio in Mumbai, assisted by Shambhu Das on sitar, Aashish Khan on sarod, and many more local musicians. A two-track stereo machine was transported from Kolkata. By now, the original $600 budget for the project had risen to $15,000, the cost covered by Harrison.
As well as laying down the bulk of Wonderwall’s eclectic Indian pieces, during these sessions Harrison recorded several ragas, one of which became The Inner Light. Following a vocal overdub, recorded later at Abbey Road, it became the B-side to Lady Madonna in March, by which time the Beatles were camped out in north India, studying with the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. For perhaps the first and only time, Harrison’s personal passions were driving the narrative of the band.
Wonderwall Music was released before the film – which premiered at Cannes before quickly vanishing into near obscurity – on 1 November 1968. Harrison’s participation was neither widely anticipated (“I didn’t even know until afterwards,” Birkin says) nor particularly celebrated. Although the record has always had its admirers, Harrison’s post-Beatles triple set, All Things Must Pass, released in 1970, is widely regarded as his first “proper” solo record, not least because of its colossal commercial and cultural impact.
Wonderwall Music, conversely, didn’t chart in the UK. Its significance lies elsewhere, in its affirmation of Harrison’s blossoming individuality, its determination to shine a tender light on an unheralded musical culture, and as a warning flare in the Beatles’ long race to extinction. The film it serves may have become a dated curio, but its soundtrack still carries an intoxicating whiff of not just one, but many futures.
• George Harrison: The Vinyl Collection is out now on Universal.
Global experimentation, Polish-style. Warsaw Village Band are one of the most inventive folk groups in Europe, with an edgy, driving style in which the harsh-edged female-harmony vocals of Magdalena Sobczak-Kotnarowska and Sylwia Świątkowska are matched against violins, percussion, dulcimer and brass. Their compositions are usually based on traditional themes, but the old Polish influences are transformed by a remarkable cast of special guests. From Galicia, Spain, there’s the experimental multi-instrumentalist Mercedes Peón, who adds vocals, electronics or bagpipes on eight of the tracks. Then there’s the Iranian master musician Kayhan Kalhor adding the kamancheh fiddle on the rousing Towards the Sun, and an Indian contingent, including the Dhoad Gypsies from Rajasthan and the singer and sarangi player Ustad Liaqat Ali Khan, bringing unexpected textures to the throbbing and atmospheric Perkun’s Fire. An inventive and often thrilling exercise in breaking down musical borders.
Sometimes, a film arrives at exactly the right time. In Brexitland 2017, that film is The Hatton Garden Job, a nostalgia-rich and semi-fictional crime caper loosely based on the case also known as the Hatton Garden safe-deposit burglary. The turnaround has been quick. You will remember the Easter weekend two years ago, when parties unknown drilled through 18in of concrete under central London to steal £14m worth of gold, cash and jewellery. And how, when arrests were finally made, the movie pitched itself – the principal gang members aged between 60 and 76, The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel with a swag bag.
The gift kept giving. The heist involved no violence, granting the story family-friendliness. Then there was “Basil” – the unknown security expert who remains at large with his share of the proceeds, allowing it a hint of sun-kissed escape. Bingo! Or indeed blingo, as in “the biggest blingo blag in history”, the phrase with which the theft is described on screen by Phil Daniels, a fine actor doomed to be remembered by many as the voice of Blur’s Parklife.
This may not be all. Another version of the same events awaits up the pipeline, a high-end affair from producers Working Title to star – of course – Michael Caine, the script adapted from a piece in Vanity Fair. Elsewhere on the industry spectrum, a third movie already exists – Hatton Garden the Heist, from Terry Lee Coker, writer-director of gangland opus Essex Vendetta. The Hatton Garden Job falls somewhere between the two, made of plyboard but with means enough for Daniels to be joined by Larry Lamb as veteran thief Brian Reader. Fancier yet, the police theory that Basil was younger than his associates is used to justify casting actual movie star Matthew Goode, 38, gamely if erratically dropping his Hs.
Goode brings with him not just his fame, but the memory of his role in Downton Abbey, a link with a counter-intuitive logic. Across generations and classes, his new film is as giddy with the past as anything from the quill of Julian Fellowes. This, it reminds us loudly and often, is a tale of the old school – proper chaps in dowdy East End boozers, observant of the criminal code. One scene takes place at West Ham’s deserted Upton Park, abandoned in the club’s move to the Olympic Stadium, for no reason the script elects to mention. In truth, the east London thing is a stretch. Reader came from Dartford in Kent and his colleagues were from Enfield; their meet-ups were held in an Islington gastropub offering craft ales and a brunch menu. You suppose a detail like that might spoil the salute to tradition restored, the kind of criminals they don’t make any more doing the kind of crime they don’t do – in the words of yet another pending British gangster film, We Still Steal the Old Way. With all that the Old Way implies.
A clue to the mood comes with Goode’s voiceover, clearly written with one eye on the Farage barmy army. The problem with modern life, he tells us, is “the lucky elite”, presumably on nodding terms with the much-despised liberal variety. The term soon crops up again, Hatton Garden itself a “playground for the lucky elite” – office workers buying lunch-hour engagement rings not in picture. The optics of the film can be unfortunate. Among a group of young loudmouths, only the one black kid, Isaac (Sam Adewunmi), ends up in a row with his all-white elders. Eventually, the gang are nabbed by a black cop, played by Sarah Jane Crawford, although in a David Brent-ish touch, she barely gets a line.
The director, Ronnie Thompson, is frank about his relationship to the case behind his movie. “I’m not making a kitchen-sink drama, it’s more entertainment,” he says in the publicity material. “It’s not reality,” he adds, to rule out misunderstanding. “It’s filmic reality.”
In summer 2015, I interviewed Brian Helgeland, the American director of Legend, the slick biopic of the Kray twins with Tom Hardy starring as both Ronnie and Reggie. Surely, with Helgeland, one-time co-writer of LA Confidential, whipping up a shiny cartoon of sharp tailoring and swinging London, this was a film made for the US. A British audience knew this stuff already, right? And would see the approach was silly, even tasteless? I put a mealy-mouthed spin on that to Helgeland. He peered back. “It was definitely made for the UK,” he said. “It’s for you guys.”
He was right. Legend enjoyed a record-breaking opening weekend at the domestic box office, eventually taking £18.4m in the UK. We love a gangster movie here, of course, a chunk of British identity wrapped up in the racing Minis of The Italian Job, James Fox wigging out in Performance, The Long Good Friday’s brilliant premonition of the future London Docklands. But none of these were nostalgic. And in The Hatton Garden Job, their influence comes pre-digested by another film heaving with freeze-frames and Walford Square voiceover – Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels.
Released in 1998 at the dog-end of Britpop, Lock, Stock was a chirpy medley of every British gangster movie before it, the politics and kinks stripped out, a thick coat of ad-agency visuals applied. The masterminds were director Guy Ritchie and producer Matthew Vaughn, well-bred pheasant shooters portraying London as run by a white working-class underworld in a way it hadn’t really been for a generation. The look was pilfered from Martin Scorsese, the tone expertly knockabout. As a formula it made both men millions and sparked a uniquely awful wave of imitators.
Ritchie has since slipped further into a mythic English past, from Sherlock Holmes to the impending King Arthur: Legend of the Sword. Vaughn’s action romp Kingsman strolled down memory lane, too, painting London council estates as crime-ridden hellholes rather than places largely terrorised by buy-to-let landlords. And now, 20 years later, all of us skinter and sadder, The Hatton Garden Job gives us a copy of a copy – two nostalgias for the price of one, a big-screen Sports Direct mega deal.
But tempting as it is to blame Ritchie and Vaughn for, well, everything, the process didn’t start with them. In postwar Britain, violent crime was rising. In 1947, motorcyclist Alec de Antiquis was shot dead outside a London jewellers while trying to foil a robbery. A year later, the gangster Jack Spot attempted a raid at Heathrow that ended in a battle of coshes and iron bars. MPs referred to a “vast crimewave”. British film responded with a gritty and popular police drama, The Blue Lamp. But the same writer, TEB Clarke, soon offered a different take on the crime movie. The new film was The Lavender Hill Mob, the Ealing comedy about a bullion heist carried out by a loveable ragbag of crooks and clerks. A wonderful movie, it won the Oscar for best screenplay, and an enduring place in the national self-image. This vision of British crime lodged in our psyche – comical, comforting, non-violent. You know, British. But even then, we were kidding ourselves.
Later, the US would have Scorsese, making gangster movies of high style that also recognised the brutishness of their subjects. Here, the white lie of The Lavender Hill Mob grew into the con of Lock, Stock, so that while the far end of the market was left to gurning tat about Essex vendettas, the mainstream British crime movie became a gift shop snowglobe, filled with old rogues and tiepins, free of social comment or blood on the carpet. Pop it next to the jams, Theresa.
As always, it’s interesting to see what’s not in the script. There is no sign, for instance, in The Hatton Garden Job of the shooting of criminal John “Goldfinger” Palmer, rumoured to be in on Basil’s identity; or of Brian Reader’s involvement in the 1983 Brink’s Mat robbery, after which a police officer was stabbed to death in his presence. Unmentioned too is the man responsible, the infamous Kenneth Noye, a longtime associate now serving life for a road-rage murder, connected in turn to gangster Clifford Norris, whose son David helped kill Stephen Lawrence.
I know. It’s only a movie, mate. Whatever the facts of the case that inspired it, it’s not meant to be real. So what better film could there be for a Britain where nothing is real and facts are for mugs, a nation that just wants to have a laugh and get back to a past we mostly made up. That’s entertainment. The biggest blingo blag in history.
There’s a symphony of uptalk and a chorus of vocal fry in this documentary about a group of teenage girls growing up in New York City, and also a small but distinct drawl of entitlement. It’s a film with a shrewd, ambient sense of atmosphere, tonally controlled and well shaped in the edit. It may not tell you that much – or perhaps anything – new. But the girls’ personalities come across with great clarity. Each is introduced with a first name flashed up in big sans serif lettering, the film’s one obvious stylistic indulgence, and maybe even a nod to Wes Anderson: one participant rather knowingly references Margot Tenenbaum, Gwyneth Paltrow’s character from The Royal Tenenbaums. They hang out with each other, obsess about boys and their own sexuality; they get mad at their parents, whose own glancingly acknowledged marital discord has coloured their upbringing in various painful ways. Inevitably, the tension with the parents comes to a crunch when these older people pay, or fail to pay, for their daughters’ various college or life choices. The film puts you in the room with these people. It’s a bit claustrophobic, occasionally.
As a vocalist, the Brazilian Eliane Elias radiates as much starry smooth-jazzy hipness as Diana Krall, but as an improvising pianist she’s in a different league: a wellspring of polished bebop lines and skittish flourishes. Jazz hardliners might shy away from the purr of her sultry vocal sound, but the smart thing about this reappraisal of her long career is that her piano spontaneity coaxes and illuminates the music at every turn. Elias’s trumpeter ex-husband Randy Brecker and Steps Ahead vibraphone partner Mike Mainieri are in the lineup, and the songs embrace jazz standards, Brazilian classics and poignant originals such as the dreamy Little Paradise. Elias is scintillating on the João Gilberto vehicle O Pato, and turns Kurt Weill’s Speak Low into a Latin glide with Brecker’s flugelhorn curling through it. Her duet with veteran Brazilian singer-songwriter Toquinho on Not to Cry (Pra Não Chorar) makes a resonant finale, not least because Toquinho half-wrote it for her when she was 18, and it took this memorable session for them to complete it.
Your report of the death of Colin Dexter (22 March) mentions that he shared Morse’s love of music, but not their shared passion for cryptic crosswords. Dexter was a frequent winner of the Observer’s Ximenes/Azed clue-writing competition, and named his detectives after two others, Sir Jeremy Morse and Mrs B Lewis (a pseudonym). In Last Bus to Woodstock, the characters are given the names of other winners, including – in an appropriately very minor role – me.Colin WestbrookNewport, Gwent
• I wonder if Margaret Squires (Letters, 22 March) isn’t mistaking admiration for aggression. We snowy-locked septuagenarians know that decades of cycling give us well-honed bums.Christine HawkesCambridge
Could someone in your sports department explain to me why England, the team ranked 14th by Fifa, are included in a feature about contenders for Russia in 2018 (Sport, 22 March), but the team ranked 12th are excluded? To save them looking at the latest table, it’s Wales.Mark LinesCardiff
• Re Peter Martindale’s letter (15 March) regarding encouraging new cartoonists, I’ve been meaning to write for ages to ask, why are you so in thrall to vintage strips? There’s probably never been a richer time for the genre: give us some more new stuff.Sue StephensonBarrow-on-Humber, Lincolnshire
• The Rev Philip Welsh (Letters, 23 March) should come up to Scotland, where “anent” is alive and well and where the diarist on a Sunday newspaper claimed to have founded the anent preservation society.Andrew JohnstoneDundee
• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com
• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters
Ben Wheatley is on top of the world in the penthouse suite, where the only way to go is down. He is lolling, shoeless, on the sofa, perfectly at ease amid the room’s swagged black curtains and gold-embossed wallpaper, like Tony Montana in act two of Scarface. The glass doors open on to a capacious roof terrace. It’s just a short, hard drop from the summit to the street.
Some directors like to soar. Wheatley, by contrast, enjoys the plunge. In High Rise – his 2015 adaptation of the JG Ballard book – a literal fall from the terrace provides the cue for a full-blown societal meltdown. Kill List lost itself in the woods, daubing itself with occult runes. A Field in England took a left turn into a tent on the heath and then promptly lost its marbles. These are films that pitch towards chaos, dragging the audience along for the ride. “I’m very influenced by Tom and Jerry,” he says with such frowning seriousness that I have no reason to doubt him. “I like the structure of those cartoons, the rise and the fall. The little run of steps up and then whoosh, down you go.”
In person, thank heavens, Wheatley is reassuringly down-to-earth; a film nerd made good, on the cusp of middle age, stroking at his beard and planting his feet on the table. He is nothing like his films, which is surely for the best. Imagine if he were: the whole interview would implode. The publicist would find us both dead on the floor, doors smashed, curtains aflame.
Instead we talk about Free Fire, his latest picture, which gathers its characters for an illicit gun deal. One minute, they’re bickering over payment and ballistics. The next, whoosh, down they go in a hail of bullets that unfolds in real time for upwards of an hour. The film is at once immaculately conceived and utterly silly; an action flick spun into absurdist theatre. We watch these sweaty, desperate idiots crawl on their bellies for cover, or dance like dervishes on wounded legs. “I’ve forgotten whose side I’m on!” wails one man from the shadows.
I’m very influenced by Tom & Jerry. I like the rise and the fall. The run of steps up then whoosh, down you go
Free Fire was prompted in part by an FBI report of a Miami shootout. It detailed the ineptitude and the carnage; the bozos who kept missing, even at point-blank range. Wheatley – in collaboration with his wife, Amy Jump – plotted the film along much the same lines. “Lots of maps, lots of building. First, I built the set in Minecraft in 3D, so as to be able to walk around the space and ensure that everyone was in the right position.”
In a more conventional picture, the shootout would last for maybe 10 minutes, tops. Here it gets pushed front and centre. This tests the narrative elastic, daring the audience to stick with the drama. “Well, it’s a conceptual conceit, isn’t it? It’s like saying: ‘You like cake? How much cake can you eat? OK, have all the cake. And then look, here’s some more.’”
Nominally set in late-70s Boston (and executive produced by Martin Scorsese), Free Fire was actually shot in Wheatley’s home town of Brighton. A cast of heavy hitters (Brie Larson, Armie Hammer, Cillian Murphy) spent their days in a dark, dirty warehouse just 100 metres from the local supermarket. “People have said: ‘Oh, is this film an attempt to be more commercial?’” he scoffs. “But they’re all commercial, or are meant to be.”
I cast my mind back to A Field in England, a grungy civil war freakshow plagued with hallucinations and as cheap as chips. Was that one meant to be commercial too? “Well, it was commercial,” the director insists. “Self-evidently it was, because it didn’t cost any money. So within that framework, it made commercial sense. If I’d made it for £6m, it would have been a huge mistake.”
Wheatley’s wild stylings, then, come allied to a keen business acumen. He cut his teeth as an animator, specialising in online virals. The internet served as a nursery slope, or a kind of virtual open-mic circuit where he could hone his craft and see how it played with the public. He won a Cannes Lion award in 2006 and then branched into TV, directing episodes of Modern Toss and the The Wrong Door. He shot his debut feature – the 2009 Oedipal gangster yarn, Down Terrace – in eight days flat, employing a stopwatch to ensure it came in on schedule.
In terms of influences, he’s a gorger. He reveres Nic Roeg and Ken Russell, those two untameable renegades of 70s British cinema. But he also loves Ken Loach and John Carpenter, Jean-Luc Godard and Ridley Scott. His work is a series of jarring juxtapositions. The critics can’t help but cross-reference him to death. Reviewing Down Terrace in the Observer, for instance, Philip French described it as “Brighton Rock reworked in the style of The Royle Family”. Appraising 2012’s Sightseers in the same publication, Mark Kermode described it as “pitched somewhere between Mike Leigh’s Nuts in May and Oliver Stone’s Natural Born Killers”.
I’ve got a problem with the neatness of life. It’s never neat, is it? Cruelty and randomness feels more honest to me
I suspect that he enjoys wrongfooting the viewer. Wheatley’s films have a habit of splattering on impact and of dividing an audience. I thought High Rise was great; many others despised it. Maybe he regards that as a badge of honour. “Oh, no,” he says, looking abruptly deflated. “I mean, yeah, sometimes people are shocked or horrified. But I’m never happy about them not liking my work. This isn’t me saying: ‘Yah-boo-sucks.’ It’s me thinking: ‘I like this sort of stuff and I hope others do too.’ So I feel sad when people get cross about it. I think: ‘Oh, fuck. Must try harder.’”
On completing a film, Wheatley likes to take it on tour and engage with the audience. Jump is not like that at all. She is happier at home in Brighton, away from the limelight, even though he feels that the films are as much hers as his. “She’s just private,” he explains. “She thinks that the work is the work and it should speak for itself. The problem is that, on the face of it, I wind up taking all the credit. Which is wrong. It’s distorted.”
Next up, he thinks they will make a sci-fi film, Freak Shift. Looking further afield, there is talk of a remake of Henri-Georges Clouzot’s The Wages of Fear, and then maybe a big studio picture: an adaptation of the graphic novel Hard Boiled by Frank Miller and Geof Darrow. He chuckles. “One day, Amy and I would like to make stuff that’s a bit more optimistic and happy. We’re not getting there yet – and I hardly think we’re likely to get there in the next few films either. But our goal is to make something like What’s Up, Doc?. Something funny and happy, where nobody dies. But we’re just a bit dark. It’s hard to get to the sunshine.”
Free Fire explodes and High Rise plunges. A Field in England staggers out of the tent in a state of mad-eyed disarray. So what, exactly, is Wheatley’s beef with the traditional three-act structure? What has he got against a straightforward happy ending? “I don’t think I have a problem with happy endings,” he says. “I’ve got a problem with the neatness of life. Because it’s never neat, is it? Cruelty and randomness just feels more honest to me. When I see stuff which has a really good resolution and everything is all right, I think: ‘What the fuck?’ Because a happy ending is only the point at which you choose to end the film. I mean, if you ended the story a few years later, it probably wouldn’t be so happy. They’d only have got themselves into still more trouble.”
He stares out at the roof terrace with its vertical drop on to the London street. “Also, there’s no such thing, because we all die, and what’s so happy about that? Unless you die while knocking one out on top of an atomic bomb.” He barks a brief laugh: “And even then there’s a downside.”
Free Fire is out on 31 March
In his work with Esperanza Spalding in her Emily’s D+Evolution band, and with New Orleans trumpeter Christian Scott, Toronto-born Matthew Stevens has shown how creatively he combines the ensemble-guitar sonics of pioneers such as John Scofield and Bill Frisell with freewheeling solo fireworks. The former qualities dominate on his second album as a leader, alongside Robert Glasper bassist Vicente Archer and drummer Eric Doob, plus a good deal of studio-production subtlety – and a guest appearance from Spalding, arching her flexible and expressive high-register vocals around the delicate solemnity of the closing track. Stevens couples a cinematic electronic-orchestral feel with a knack for sparsely expressive melody – as in the passage of Undertow’s whimsical theme through soft chord variations, a staccato groove, and then a darkly insistent guitar vamp. Cocoon is a Frisellian swell of vibrato-trembling chords against impassive drum hits; Knowhow mimics pared-down motifs with electronic echoes, like a hidden orchestra that keeps amplifying songs you hear in your head. It’s subtle and clever contemporary jazz fusion from a promising new arrival.
The British television and film director Michael Tuchner, who has died aged 84, left a body of work that vividly reflected life in the UK and US during the 1970s and 80s. As Tuchner was an unshowy man who allowed the performances and narrative to dominate a film, his contribution often went unsung, even though he made more than 40 television and big screen movies. Nevertheless, after his debut feature, Villain (1971), starring Richard Burton, he was always considered a safe pair of hands by producers and was nominated for four Bafta awards, winning one for the acclaimed BBC Play for Today production of Jack Rosenthal’s Bar Mitzvah Boy (1976).
Tuchner was born in Berlin, the son of Martin, a tailor, and his wife, Rosa (nee Wolochwiansky). When he was seven, the family moved to the UK, just as the last remaining Jewish enterprises in Germany were being shut down by the Nazis. After the second world war the family settled in Manchester and Tuchner was awarded a scholarship to Manchester grammar school. He studied classics at University College London and was the president of the film society there, before joining the BBC as a trainee editor on the Tonight programme. He moved up to be a full-blown editor and director alongside Jack Gold and Kevin Billington, and worked on a number of television documentaries, many of which featured the BBC’s roving reporter Alan Whicker.
Tuchner then directed two works in The Wednesday Play series – Sling Your Hook (1969), starring Michael Bates, and The Hunting of Lionel Crane (1970), with Robert Powell. Following in the naturalistic tradition of Mike Hodges’ Get Carter, Villain was a gritty crime thriller with excellent location work in London, including a gripping heist sequence. In it Burton played with relish a sadistic, snarling, gay gangster whose cockney accent had to be dubbed for baffled American audiences in the US release. So violent was Burton’s character, modelled on the East End crime boss Ronnie Kray, that, according to the publicity, “by the time he’s ready to kill you, it’s an act of mercy”.
Continuing in action mode, Tuchner directed Fear Is the Key (1972), based on an Alistair MacLean novel. Mainly shot in Louisiana, it featured a spectacular 13-minute car chase with the hero (Barry Newman) driving a Ford Gran Torino. Mr Quilp (1975) was a cheery musical version of Charles Dickens’ The Old Curiosity Shop, providing a vehicle for Anthony Newley in the title role of the evil, misshapen moneylender.
Tuchner’s Likely Lads film (1976) was a cut above most spin-offs from television comedy series. However, although it starred the same leads, James Bolam and Rodney Bewes as Geordie best mates, and had the same writers (Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais, who also wrote Villain), the inflated sequel could not but suffer in comparison with the popular small-screen version.
At the same time Tuchner directed several works in the Play for Today series (1974-76), including Bar Mitzvah Boy, a bittersweet comedy about the anxieties of a young working-class Jewish boy from north London approaching his big day.
Despite having moved to Los Angeles in 1978, when he claimed to have been “the hottest director in Hollywood for 15 seconds”, Tuchner continued to work in the UK, where he made the Emmy-nominated television movie, Summer of My German Soldier (1978), a touching love story about an American teenage girl and a German PoW set in the second world war. He also made two episodes of Tales of the Unexpected (1979), introduced by Roald Dahl, who wrote the short stories on which the series was based.
Tuchner was kept busy in the 80s directing television movies such as The Hunchback of Notre Dame (1982), with Anthony Hopkins impressive in the title role. The actor’s make-up alone, which took five hours each day to apply, was worth applause. Among Tuchner’s other notable television dramas, many of which dealt with social issues, were Not My Kid (1985), with George Segal as a doctor dealing with drug-addicted teenagers, and Amos (also 1985), with Kirk Douglas as a rebel in a nursing home.
In 1989 Tuchner returned to the big screen with Wilt (known as The Misadventures of Mr Wilt in the US), a witty black comedy skilfully adapted from Tom Sharpe’s novel and starring Griff Rhys Jones and Mel Smith. In it Tuchner proved once more that he knew how far to go too far, particularly in a scene where Rhys Jones appears to be having sex with a lifesize, inflatable plastic doll. Nothing if not eclectic, Tuchner’s last feature was Back to the Secret Garden (2001), a charming sequel to Frances Hodgson Burnett’s classic children’s book.
He is survived by his second wife, Dina Eaton, and by two children, Rebecca and Jonathan, from his first marriage, to Gillian Barton Cook, which ended in divorce.Ronald Bergan
Michael Apted writes: In an unusual way, Michael Tuchner and I were kindred spirits, both happy to move between drama and documentary. He did very well at it, and through the rough and tumble he never lost his sense of humour and his love of life. I can still hear in my mind his penetrating laugh, which was mostly engaging, occasionally annoying.
We worked side by side, competed with each other and fought for the same material. But the only time there was any bad blood between us was when we talked football. That, I suppose, is par for the course for English males.
• Michael John Tuchner, film and television director, born 24 June 1932; died 17 February 2017
Human rights organisations have called on Belarusian authorities to drop all charges immediately against writers, publishers and journalists who have been arrested following a wave of nationwide protests.
The Committee to Protect Journalists said security forces had detained or otherwise obstructed at least 32 people in recent weeks. It was joined by Pen America in protesting against the arrests.
The detainees include the writer and historian Vladimir Orlov, as well as the Belarusian publisher Miraslau Lazouski and bookseller Ales Jaudaha, who were arrested by six masked officers at the entrance of a literature festival in Minsk. Lazouski is a “survival instructor” who has been a publisher for five or six years. He has been previously linked to the nationalist White Legion group.
Nina Shidlovskaya, Lazouski’s wife, told the Guardian that police later brought him home, bloody and beaten, carried out a search, then took him away again. She said the men could be held for three days without charge.
Shidlovskaya said she believed the arrests were part of a crackdown by Belarus authorities ahead of nationwide Freedom Day celebrations next Saturday, 25 March, which is a focus for dissent.
Belarusians have demonstrated since early February against the imposition of a tax equivalent to £200 on Belarusians who have been unemployed for more than six months and who have not sought work at government job centres. The campaign has been run under the slogan, “We are not parasites,” a reference to President Aleksandr Lukashenko’s 2015 introduction of the tax to fight “social parasitism”.
The CPJ said security forces in the southwestern Belarusian city of Pinsk had detained Viktor Yaroshuk, a freelance journalist working with the independent satellite television station Belsat. A court ordered him to pay fines for “violating regulations on manufacturing and distributing mass media materials”. Local media in Minsk reported that authorities did not tell Yaroshuk what mass media materials he had distributed.
Freelance Belsat correspondents Andrey Tolchin and Konstantin Zhukovsky were also detained as they filmed a factory in the southeastern city of Dobrush. They were released after a document check, according to local media. Police also held Zhukovsky for more than four hours on 18 March as the journalist travelled to the southeastern city of Mozyr, where he planned to cover anti-government protests.
Belsat TV freelancers Lyubov Luneva and Olga Davydova were held for about an hour on Wednesday as they interviewed wives of jailed activists outside a prison in the capital Minsk. Their interviewees were also detained. Police searched the phones of the journalists and released them without charge, Belsat reported.


My mother Ruth Loveday-Stanfield, who has died aged 86, was an acclaimed concert pianist both in her own right and as an accompanist to my father, the violinist Alan Loveday.
Ruth was born in Stoke Newington, north London, to Max Steinfield, a diamond cutter and merchant, and his wife, Ada (nee Flatto), an artist. Ruth’s wider family was of Russian-Polish origins and populated with high achievers, including her cousins Jacob Bronowski, the renowned scientist, and Leo Baron, who played an active part in the movement against white rule in Southern Rhodesia (Zimbabwe) as a lawyer and later as acting chief justice of the independent country.
At Clapton County secondary school Ruth showed early talent as a pianist, and in 1948 went on to win a scholarship to the Royal College of Music in London, where she won the McEwen piano prize and met Alan over a game of table tennis. They soon performed together in many concerts in Britain and abroad, including the Prague Spring international music festival and an extensive tour of New Zealand and Australia, where Ruth was hailed by one newspaper as “a player of accomplished ability and wonderful technical skill and dexterity”. She went on to give a number of solo broadcasts for the BBC, as well as recitals in the Purcell Room at the Southbank Centre in London and at numerous other concert venues, both as a soloist and in partnership with Alan.
Ruth also composed and arranged various pieces for violin, piano, recorder and voice, including a full-length opera for children entitled The Blue Bird, which received performances conducted by Antony Hopkins. In the 1970s, when she was in her 40s, Ruth became a teacher of piano and recorder, inspiring her many young pupils with her passion for music.
In later life, Ruth had to cope with the death of my brother, the house music DJ and producer Ian Loveday. One of the most effective strategies she found to deal with her grief was to throw herself back into playing the piano and she became a performer once again, giving piano recitals in local church halls in Kew and Chiswick. At the first of these recitals she performed a piece she had written in Ian’s memory, a passionate and furious composition set against a repetitive single bass-note pulse at 130 beats per minute – house music tempo.
Ruth lived in London throughout her life and after retiring from teaching in 2014 remained in Chiswick. Although she and Alan were divorced in 1979, they maintained a close friendship and his death last year affected her deeply.
She is survived by me and her grandchildren, Molly and Daniel.
There are creative contemporary musicians whose origins and agendas let you roughly place them in the scheme of things in a couple of sentences, and there are those who defy summaries – such as Julie Sassoon, the Berlin-resident British pianist, who studied jazz piano and Indian violin and has worked since the millennium in jazz, world-music, multi-piano ensembles, solo ventures and improvising chamber groups, but regularly returns to partnerships with the atmospherically voicelike reeds-player Lothar Ohlmeier. Fourtune is her first quartet set, joining them with the powerful duo of bassist Meinrad Kneer and drummer Rudi Fischerlehner.
The opening Cloud patiently locates its melody in Ohlmeier’s pure-toned whispers and softly whistling tones; To Be opens with Kneer’s richly nuanced bass and develops a four-note motif echoed by tom-tom rolls and then soprano sax; the dramatic Wake Up Call is variously thoughtful and frenetic. Trumpeter Tom Arthurs makes telling appearances on two tracks – notably the pristine and evocative White Notes (For JKM) – as part of the latest evidence that Julie Sassoon continues to steer her own discreetly eloquent path.
Robert Silvers was one of the most significant cultural figures of our time. This will seem a large claim to make about the editor of a twice-monthly literary magazine, but then the New York Review of Books – or “the paper”, as Silvers always called it – was more than your usual lit mag. There had been great journals before it, of course, notably the Times Literary Supplement and the Paris Review – which Silvers edited for a time. But the NYRB was a unique phenomenon: unapologetically intellectual, politically radical, distinctive in its high-toned New York fashion and wholly committed to civilised values. And from the outset Silvers was its heart and, more importantly, its brain.
He was surely the greatest literary editor there has ever been – brilliant, autocratic, endlessly curious and possessed of an extraordinary fund of knowledge about a vast range of subjects. True, he was not always easy to deal with, but when has the best ever been easy? His gift for matching books to reviewers was uncanny; the FedEx package would arrive, containing a volume I could not imagine wanting to read, much less review. Yet a few weeks later I would find myself writing three or four thousand enthusiastic words on it, and wondering why I had not taken notice of this author, or that subject, before.
How did he do it? He just knew, by a kind of sympathetic magic, that the unlikeliest-seeming book would be to a reviewer’s taste. He or she would not know it until one of Bob’s typed notes – his handwriting was terrible – issued a courtly invitation to “see if something might be done” on yet another weighty biography of Kafka, or a satisfyingly nasty late novel by Kingsley Amis.
He was born and brought up in New York and its environs, and was entirely a product of the exciting and intellectually stimulating east coast milieu. The NYRB began life in 1963, during a newspaper printers’ strike in the city. In at the birth with Silvers were editors Barbara Epstein and her husband Jason Epstein, the writer Elizabeth Hardwick and the poet Robert Lowell, and the publisher A Whitney Ellsworth. The first issue, on 1 February 1963, was astonishing, with pieces by WH Auden, Susan Sontag, Norman Mailer, Gore Vidal and many others, all of whom wrote essay-length reviews for no fee. Autres temps, autre moeurs …
Silvers seemed to work all hours of the day, and all days of the week, including holidays – yes, I had a Christmas morning call from him, asking if I would care to reply to a letter from an academic in Nebraska commenting adversely on one of my pieces. His enthusiasm for literature and ideas – the NYRB was more concerned with the life of the mind than it was with the world of books – stamped itself on every page he published. At this perilous time, political and cultural, for America and the west in general, his death is our great loss. The king is dead; long live “the paper”.
The 27-year-old Nicolas Pesce makes a very accomplished debut with this macabre horror nightmare in which the killer is a woman – and that’s a gender issue rare enough in horror to deserve pointing out, and throws into perspective her resemblance to Ed Gein, Norman Bates or Dennis Nilsen. The film has some visual echoes of Grant Wood’s painting American Gothic. A young woman, Francisca (played by Kika Magalhaes, and by Olivia Bond as a little girl) has grown up effectively alone on a remote farm somewhere in the US, having been raised – or possibly discovered and adopted in sinister circumstances hinted at in the final act – by a Portuguese woman (Diana Agostini) and an elderly man (Paul Nazak).
The woman dissects cow’s eyes for little Francisca on the kitchen table and they seem to spend long evenings together watching the same episode of the old TV western Bonanza … on video? DVD? Is she just imagining it? However, she is parted from them in horrific circumstances and is now tormented with loneliness. To Francisca, predatory and psychopathic violence comes naturally, but this does not disturb her sense of herself as a fey romantic creature, and the movie’s miasma of evil is made the more disturbing by its air of wan and elegiac melancholy, accentuated by the use of Portuguese fado music. It is beautifully shot in monochrome. Pesce has a real flair for composition, and for generally scaring an audience a very great deal.
In the future, after Hollywood’s movie palaces have been reclaimed by the Mojave desert sands and the once-grand Odeons and Empires are nothing but squats for pigeons, the last cinemas standing will all be in Pyongyang, Beijing and Shanghai. Why? Because, along with Crimea and Syria, North Korea and China are the only places left in the world where you still can’t get Netflix.
Streaming sites such as Netflix, Amazon Prime, iTunes and Mubi represent such a grave threat to cinema that even Nato has waded in — albeit the National Association of Theatre Owners, not the other Nato. Last October, the industry body condemned Netflix’s decision to bypass the long-established “theatrical window” by releasing its war thriller The Siege of Jadotville, starring Jamie Dornan, online the same day it premiered in a handful of US cinemas. The theatrical release ensured that the film was eligible for awards, while the digital release furthered Netflix’s only real commercial interest: establishing and asserting dominance of this new distribution model.
To put it in terms we can all appreciate, Netflix et al are crashing about, laying waste to the film industry landscape, like 50ft Decepticons in a Transformers sequel. Naturally, Netflix sees itself more like Kirk Douglas rising up against his Roman slavers in Spartacus, or Mel Gibson on horseback bellowing “FREEEEDOM!”, and there are plenty of reasons for film fans to paint their faces blue and follow the streaming giants into battle. Falling box office revenue is evidence that the comfy convenience of home-viewing is not to be underestimated and, according to Netflix’s chief content officer, Ted Sarandos, those who are holding out and still prefer the cinema experience need to shake their “romantic notion” about the big screen. “We have to get rid of the romantic part,” he said in 2016. “I think over time that these films will get booked into theatres at the same time they’re on Netflix.”
For film-makers, too, the new way of doing things has its appeal. Netflix’s refusal to disclose viewing figures promises to liberate creative minds from box-office anxiety, while its deep pockets take the pressure off production budgets. This, along with its acquisition of trickier-to-market titles, such as the child soldier drama Beasts of No Nation or Ava DuVernay’s Oscar-nominated documentary 13th, may create the impression that Netflix is as serious about disrupting the risk-averse, profit-led culture of film production as it is about disrupting the distribution model.
If only. Instead, these chippy upstarts seem determined to rival the cigar-chomping moguls of old by replicating their business strategy, movie for movie. Yes, there are auteur-helmed prestige projects (Woody Allen at Amazon, Martin Scorsese at Netflix), but they put out their fair share of (supposedly) crowd-pleasing crud, too. Netflix’s upcoming slate includes Will Smith vehicle, Bright, a sci-fi-fantasy that reteams the director and star of Warner Bros’s critical flop Suicide Squad – and every comedy Adam Sandler makes between now and Judgement Day. The appointment of Universal Pictures executive Scott Stuber to head up the film arm only underscores this traditional approach. Plus, the more they spend on these “originals”, the less is left over to support the true originals.
This was always the plan, of course. There is a reason, says Sarandos, that Netflix CEO Reed Hastings didn’t call his 90s mail order startup DVDmail or Mailflix: “The eventuality was all about the content, that every piece of film entertainment would come into the home by the internet.”
In TV, a medium intended for the home, streaming has resulted in quality, commercially competitive series that might never otherwise have found an audience, the likes of Orange is the New Black, Master of None. But in specifying the mode of exhibition, cinema is different. Have you really seen a film such as Moonlight if you watched the first 53 minutes on your Samsung Galaxy?
So far, the standard industry response to this threat has been to make more films of scale: more disaster movies, more monster movies, more epic space operas and very little of anything else. They would do better to remind audiences that spectacle isn’t all cinema can do. It isn’t even the most exciting thing.
In the age of smartphones and shortened attention spans, cinema’s power of total immersion is more transcendent than ever, and more precious. Where once we filmgoers were a congregation exalted in collective screen worship, now we are mostly lonely sinners, pleasure-seeking in gloomy privacy. If that sounds like a grand, fanciful or “romantic notion” of the simple economics of digital distribution, good. That is the whole point of cinema, isn’t it? To liven up ordinary lives with a sprinkling of movie magic, at least until the lights go up.
Authors Patrick Gale and Mark Billingham have slammed a government fund to support innovation in public libraries as “a sop, a smokescreen and a whitewash” that does nothing to help the fundamental crisis facing the sector. They were joined by Horrid Henry creator Francesca Simon in criticising the ability of the £4m scheme to rescue the beleaguered sector.
Though Billingham welcomed investment in libraries, he said: “It is hard not to view this as a smokescreen – a sop – to those who have long fought the cause of libraries while their funding nationwide continues to be slashed.” Describing himself as increasingly depressed at the state of the sector, Gale told the Guardian: “This is a kind of whitewash and it makes me cross.”
Their comments followed Arts Council England and the Department of Culture, Media and Sport announcing that 30 local authority library services would receive a total of £3.9m from the Libraries Opportunities for Everyone Innovation fund, which was launched in December as part of the government’s libraries taskforce to create a sustainable public libraries service in England.
Recipients of the money include £125,121 for a soft-play facility built around the theme of children’s literature in Greenwich and a state-of-the-art digital and electronic centre to help users of Hull central library explore their creativity in arts, science and technology, which received £50,000. Other recipients of the cash include emergent readers in Norfolk, who will receive £98,020, and £50,000 to trial a whole family “learning hub” in the Wrekin.
Billingham said he was sceptical these schemes could change the fortunes of a sector that has lost £25m through local authority spending cuts in the past year, and where closures are predicted to double over the next 10 years. “A new soft-play area in Eltham does not make up for the closure of an entire library elsewhere, and a little support for emergent readers in one area cannot possibly compensate for the cuts that have robbed entire communities of this opportunity,” he said.
According to Gale, who lives in Cornwall, the plans offer local people little help in combating longstanding issues. “This area has pretty major literacy problems and is one of the most deprived in the country,” he said. “I get fed up that we’ve been given bouncy play areas as if that should make up for the lack of books on shelves.” The failure to invest in opening hours and book stock was compounding problems of generational literacy in an area where the number of illiterate adults was above the national average, he added. “Libraries in Cornwall fill a really important gap for children and adults who want to catch up on reading and can do it in their own way and without feeling judged.”
Simon lent her support to Gale, saying: “Libraries first and foremost need to be open, with professional librarians and well-stocked shelves.” She welcomed the initiatives rewarded by ACE and the DCMS, but added: “They are also window dressing against a background of £180m-worth of funding cuts since 2010 and over 400 libraries closed.”
Crime writer Peter James also welcomed the initiatives, saying it was vital for libraries to move with the times, but he added the schemes should not be seen as an alternative to libraries’ role as beacons of literacy within local communities. “The UK astonishingly and shockingly has one of the lowest literacy levels in the developed world – recently ranking 22 out of 24 countries examined – and the average reading age for 50% of prisoners in our jails is below 10 years old,” he said. “Our libraries are a key to improving these figures for all our futures.”
Library campaigners welcomed support from authors, and added that the focus of government input should be to formulate a coherent national strategy to promote the core activity of libraries – lending books – and provide a long-term blueprint to enable the sector to survive swingeing cuts by councils trying to shore up other frontline services. Pointing to the fact that a third of library users had stopped using the service over the past decade, campaigner Desmond Clarke said: “There is a lack of strategic planning and rigorous assessment as to the effectiveness of projects.”
At the professional librarians body Cilip, chief executive Nick Poole welcomed the money being pumped into individual schemes, but added: “There still remains an urgent need for effective leadership through a fully funded and evidence-based national public library plan for England to provide quality library services that meet the needs of communities.”
What is it? A preschoolers’ introduction to musical theatre by Fräulein Maria herself.
Why you’ll love it: What the world needs now is a cuddle, a milky drink and Julie Andrews. Eternal thanks to Netflix for providing this last in the form of Julie’s Greenroom. Although a show for the very small, who here can say they haven’t felt like thumb-sucking and clutching a blankie at recent world events? Andrews’ soothing tones and innate warmth combined with a cast of Henson Workshop puppet children has all the soothing qualities of a nice cup of tea.
You know where you are when episode one begins with a cheerful song called Anything Can Happen in the Theatre. It sees Andrews launch, albeit gently, into song for the first time in years with co-star Giullian Yao Gioiello. She plays Miss Julie (not Strindberg, this is a family show), the owner of a kids’ theatre workshop and he is her young sidekick Gus, a former pupil who helps her run the little theatre built by her dad.
The kids, a happy gang of peppy puppets, are, of course, putting on a show. They were going to do The Wizard of Oz but a basement flood wiped out all but a few costumes and props. So they have to write a new musical from scratch. Who will help them come up with a story and songs and a dance routine and so on? Why, the weekly celebrity guest will! Idina Menzel kicks things off with a sing-a-long and some inspirational talk to help them come up with an idea.
All “former students” of Julie’s Greenroom themselves, a different star each episode pitches up to help. It’s plain to see they’re all there for a chance to duet with Andrews. Can you imagine saying no thanks to Mary Poppins? But the script lacks the usual Henson mischief you’d expect from adult/puppet interaction, which feels like a missed opportunity.
Things stay firmly on the side of saccharine with some dialogue really giving Barney the Dinosaur a run for his money. One of the kids, Spike, tries to cheer up Miss Julie after the basement flood. “When everything you care about goes down the drain, just remember, round the corner is a candy cane.” Spike is no Auden.
When Julie Andrews says, “The show MUST go on” it’s like sun breaking the clouds. “Places everyone, please,” she adds, causing spontaneous rainbows to burst from your eyes and mouth.Josh Groban helps the kids write a song, Sara Bareilles likewise, Kimmy Schmidt’s Ellie Kemper teaches improv, Alec Baldwin does acting and ballet dancers assist with the moves while musicians rehearse the orchestra. It covers most aspects of live performance while threading it through with messages about trying your best and being kind to each other.
And it’s all topped off with a Carol Burnett cameo in the final ep when the theatre group’s benefactor, Mrs Brightful, comes to see the big finale and join in the final number with Andrews. The two women are side-by-side on the sofa, Burnett belting, Andrews more careful with her voice now, but it’s joyful.
It may be sweeter than a face-plant into a bag of Splenda, but it’s a great way to introduce wee ones to the world of theatre and clearly a passion project of Andrews who is co-exec producer and co-creator too. Fräulein Maria would 100% approve.
Where: Netflix.
Length: Thirteen half-hour episodes, all available to stream now.
Stand-out episode: Episode 12 features David Hyde Pierce (Frasier) who gives it both thespy barrels as the directing coach, roaring his instructions across the footlights and providing much-needed comic zing for the grownups.
If you liked Julie’s Greenroom watch: Yonderland (Sky Box Sets), The Furchester Hotel (iPlayer/Netflix).
Ten years ago, the Jesus and Mary Chain reformed. Reunion gigs were announced and sold out: the first, at the Coachella festival in California, featured a guest appearance from Scarlett Johansson, singing backing vocals on their 1985 single Just Like Honey. Retrospective compilation albums and box sets were released. Interviews were given and articles written, detailing the salient points of their career – their roots in the South Lanarkshire new town of East Kilbride, their feedback-drenched early sound (which gamely attempted to meld the melodies of 60s girl groups with the sulphurous industrial noise made by Einstürzende Neubauten), the chaos and violence of their live shows, their unexpected rise from music-press favourites to mainstream Top of the Pops success, their agonising decline – and lauding their importance. And among fans and critics alike, there was rejoicing that the relationship between Jim and William Reid – apparently irreparably ruptured after a disastrous 1998 gig in Los Angeles, which ended after 15 minutes with the brothers, as Jim later put it, “trying to kill each other” – had in fact been mended.
There was, Jim Reid concedes today, just one problem. Their relationship had not been mended at all. “The band was back together and we were playing live, but there was still … we weren’t really … we were saying to everybody: ‘Yeah, everything’s great now,’ and it wasn’t great. We were still sort of chucking things at each other at any opportunity.”
A long-time observer of the band might suggest that meant things were very much back to normal. The Reid brothers’ relationship was always legendarily combustible, marked by explosions of physical violence: as if to set the tone for the rest of their career, the pair managed to have a fight on stage at the sound check before their first London gig. Jim was apparently furious at the torrent of feedback emerging from William’s amplifier, a mistake that would soon become their trademark. Now, a big sticking point was whether or not the reformed Mary Chain should record a new album. William was keen: “I just wanted to do it,” he says. “I just thought: let’s go into the studio and just do it, rip it out in a couple of weeks or a couple of months or whatever, but just do it. I mean, it’s great to have a strong back catalogue and to play those songs on stage, but doing that ad infinitum … I thought: ‘I want to do more than this, I want us to be the way we used to be,’ which was an alive band.”
His brother wasn’t so sure. For one thing, he had young children at home and didn’t want to spend more time recording in the US. For another, he “just didn’t know what another Jesus and Mary Chain album was going to sound like”. How, he wondered, would a middle-aged version of the band, previously the incarnation of a very youthful kind of rage and disaffection, work? “If you had asked me when I was 25: ‘Can you see yourself doing this at 55?’ I would have pissed myself laughing,” he notes, “but here I am.”
Furthermore, he says, the disastrous sessions for the Jesus and Mary Chain’s last album, 1997’s Munki, weighed heavily on his mind. “It was painful, it was bloody painful. That was when we couldn’t be in the same room together, let alone the same band as each other. So I’d go in and record my stuff, he’d go in separately and record his stuff. It was supposed to take two weeks and it took a year and a half, and then it came out and nobody seemed to care. I mean, the weird thing is that I love that record. The music didn’t suffer, but the people who made the music certainly did.”
So the pair quarrelled about everything: how the album would sound, where they would record it. “It was like a fucking seesaw,” says William. “I wanted to do it and he didn’t want to do it – then fast forward a couple of years and he wants to do it and I was going through a time when I just didn’t want to do nothing, you know? We just couldn’t get that first step done. We just couldn’t.”
And yet, here we are, almost exactly a decade after their first comeback gig, discussing the new Jesus and Mary Chain album, Damage and Joy: Jim nursing a cup of coffee in a nondescript west-London hotel bar and William over the phone from his home in Los Angeles. They are, according to Jim, “getting on better, to the point where it’s almost like it was before we were in the band, when we were the opposite of what everyone thinks we are now; we were really good mates”.
Indeed, even separated by 5,000 miles, it’s hard not to be struck by how alike the pair seem. They’re both polite and friendly – a far cry from the Jesus and Mary Chain you can see in old clips on YouTube, answering questions with contemptuous monosyllables – if they can be bothered to answer them at all – and clearly incredibly shy. William apologises in advance for his shortcomings as an interviewee (“I’m not very articulate over the phone”) and his answers frequently tail off, his attempts to find the right words replaced by frustrated muttering involving much exasperated deployment of the word “fuck”.
As their manager, Alan McGee, has pointed out more than once, they share an ability to make rather heavy weather of life in a band, and indeed life generally. I ask them both if, given the fraternal fighting, the constant battles with a record company that kept trying to get them to work with producers who had made hits for Tears for Fears or U2, and their fabled antipathy to touring, they ever actually enjoyed being in the Jesus and Mary Chain. “Was I ever happy, full stop?” frowns Jim. “In the Mary Chain, I guess, as in life, happiness is just fleeting.”
His brother goes further: “Is anybody ever really happy? I mean, isn’t the whole world just stressed out? We’re all going to die and nobody knows where we’re going. How can you be happy knowing that you’re going to fall off the end of a cliff someday?”
Their similarities in character notwithstanding, how they ended up actually making the new album, Damage and Joy, is an intriguing question. “A couple of years ago, we just kind of thought: OK, this isn’t going to happen unless we make it happen. We thought the best thing to do would be to get a producer who could act as an intermediary,” William says. They plumped for former Killing Joke bassist Youth, in the belief that his “hippy punk” temperament might qualify him for a job Jim describes as “producer/peacekeeper, producer/Kofi Annan if the shit hits the fan”.
There were certainly moments of trepidation: Jim describes arriving at Youth’s studio in Spain and realising to his horror that it was “in the middle of a bloody desert. There’s literally nowhere else to go – all there was to do was make a record. Or,” he adds darkly, “kill each other.”
Nevertheless, their producer’s diplomatic skills turned out to be unnecessary. “What happened was that I realised, and I think William realised too, that this was our last chance,” Jim says. “If we fucked this up, there was no going back. It had taken so long to get there, and if we screwed it up with petty bickering, we would have really blown it; would have blown it big time. Had we fucked up, that would be it for the band.”
“I think we bonded during the process, actually,” offers William. “I think it was a really good experience for me and Jim as brothers. I think our mother [who died in 2007] would have been proud to see us getting along so well, and doing things for our common good. I have been playing in studios over the decades, doing demos and trying to get my shit together, and I always come back to the same conclusion: that I needed Jim, you know. I needed his input, his voice. He’s not an effusive guy. He’ll never be coming to you and telling you you’re brilliant or you’re great or whatever, but Jim’s seal of approval, even if it’s just a nod or a ‘Hmmm, that’s OK,’ means a lot to me, you know? And I think the same is true of him with me. Yeah, I can make records without Jim, Jim can make records without me, but there’s a special thing that happens, and I’d kind of missed that.”
So it was a pleasurable experience?
“Pleasurable?” he says, his voice rising with incredulity. You would think I had just asked him if he enjoyed slamming his fingers in a car door. “I wouldn’t say it was pleasurable, no. I’d say it was absolutely excruciatingly stressful.”
“I wouldn’t say it was pleasant at all,” concurs his brother. “I mean, I don’t enjoy being in the studio. There’s too much at stake … it can be incredibly frustrating.”
Indeed, during the mixing of the album, he started drinking again after years of sobriety. “I don’t really want to go on about it too much, but I’m an alcoholic, and I do fall off the wagon from time to time. I drink, I’m a drunk. I was on the wagon for five years once, fell off; was on the wagon for a year and a half then just cracked one day during the making of this record, and I have been sober since 4 October. But I don’t think there was a trigger. You know, if you’ve got a drink problem, there’s always an excuse to drink.”
Either way, the end product sounds pretty triumphant: recognisably a Jesus and Mary Chain album without sounding like a rehash of their past glories. Occasionally, it has a similarly jolting effect as their early singles, not least when a song called Simian Split reaches the lines: “I killed Kurt Cobain / I put the shot right through his brain / And his wife gave me the drug / ’Cos I’m a big fat lying slob.” (“I think I wrote it after watching that Nick Broomfield documentary,” William says, referring to the film Kurt and Courtney, in which an overweight punk singer called El Duce makes unsubstantiated claims that Courtney Love asked him to murder her husband. “Yeah, it’s a provocative lyric but … I don’t know. I don’t like talking about lyrics.”)
Intriguingly, several tracks are re-recordings of songs the Reids released, virtually ignored, in the years between their initial split and their reformation: Jim both, with his band Freeheat and solo; William under the name Lazycame. The single Amputation in particular paints a grim picture of a time during which the brothers “couldn’t get arrested”, as Jim puts it. “At first, I was totally happy not being in the limelight, not doing tours or any of that shit. After a while, I thought: I’ll dip my toe in the water again, and it seemed like nobody gave a shit. It was hard to look around and see bands that sounded like the Mary Chain doing better than the guys from the Mary Chain. At one point – and this is a true story – Ben [Lurie, the band’s former guitarist] and I seriously thought about forming a Mary Chain tribute band. You know, ‘Nobody gives a shit whether we do another band or not, why not make it a tribute band?’” He laughs. “Then the drink and the drugs wore off and we didn’t do it.”
He says he isn’t sure where the reformed Jesus and Mary Chain fit in any more. He occasionally hears bands that sound like their old records, but certainly never sees bands behaving with the kind of reckless, audience-baiting abandon the Reids did in their early days when a gig was “15 minutes long, pissed off your head, kick the guy in the front row and fall over, and then everyone goes mental and has a fight”.
Then again, he concedes, bands didn’t behave like that then either. “The first six months of the band, we seriously didn’t seem to give a shit,” he says, a hint of amazement at his own behaviour in his voice. “I remember we went on at Liverpool University, someone had given us a fuckload of speed before and it was just so … non-musical. We didn’t even play any songs, it was just a free-form freakout. And then afterwards, we had the gall to go and mingle with the audience! There was just a crowd of guys around us going, ‘How do you get away with it?’ When we played the Haçienda we turned around to Bobby Gillespie’s girlfriend Karen and went: ‘Do you fancy playing the drums tonight?’ She goes, ‘I cannae play drums,’ and we went, ‘Don’t worry. Neither can Bobby.’ And she did it. How do you go on stage at the Haçienda with someone playing drums who has never played drums before? It was fucking mental. Bands just don’t do things like that.”
Clearly, this kind of thing doesn’t happen any more, but in some ways, he says, he feels the same now as he did then. “We’re driven by the same things that made us make music then. In 1985, there was a kind of frustration about the status quo in music. Today, all I know about the music scene is when my kids play Heart FM and it’s dreadful. Pop music is dreadful. I mean, you find a radio now, switch it on, and I guarantee it’ll be garbage coming out. That still pisses me off. So it’s the same thing as what it was then but more … I hate to use the word mellow, but it’s a kind of mellow rage.”
Damage and Joy is out now on ADA/Warner.
A Russian singer who was barred from entering Ukraine has been given permission to take part in the Eurovision song contest in Kiev via satellite.
On Wednesday Ukraine’s security service imposed a three-year entry ban on Russia’s participant, Yulia Samoilova, for illegally entering Crimea, which has been annexed by Russia, to perform in a 2015 gala concert.
The Geneva-based European Broadcasting Union (EBU), which organises the contest, had criticised Kiev’s decision to exclude Samoilova.
“Taking into consideration this ban might be upheld by the Ukrainian authorities, and in order to maintain the non-political nature of the Eurovision song contest, the EBU has been working hard to find a solution to this situation,” the organisation said on Thursday.
The EBU had “taken the unprecedented move to offer Channel One Russia the opportunity for Julia to still participate in this year’s contest by performing live in the second semi-final via satellite”, it said.
“Should the Russian entry qualify for the grand final the same solution would apply … This is something that has never been done before in the contest’s 60-year history.”
The unprecedented move was necessary, the EBU said, to keep with “the spirit of Eurovision’s values of inclusivity”. It vowed “to ensure that all 43 are given the opportunity to participate”.
The Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, previously described the ban as being “on the conscience of the organisers” in Ukraine.
It was also criticised by the Kremlin spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, who said: “The decision, from our point of view, is absolutely unfair. It’s unfortunate and we hope all the same that it will be reconsidered.” He said the ban “seriously devalues” the competition.
Samoilova said she was keeping her spirits up. “Overall I’m not upset,” Samoilova told Channel One state-controlled television, which selected her as Russia’s contestant. “I will keep going. I somehow think that everything will change.”
Samoilova said she could not understand why Ukrainian authorities saw “some kind of threat in a little girl like me”.
The contest in Kiev comprises two semi-finals on 9 and 11 May, followed by the final on 13 May.
Last year’s winning song, which gave Ukraine hosting rights in 2017, was about the deportation by Soviet authorities of the Crimean Tatar population to central Asia.
Its singer Susana Jamaladynova, whose stage name is Jamala, is from the minority Crimean Tatar population which largely opposed Russian annexation. She said before the contest that the song was about the events of 1944 and 2014.
After a year cut off from modern life in the Scottish Highlands, imagine re-emerging to find a world where Donald Trump is US president, Britain has left the EU and Leicester won the Premier League.
For the contestants of the Channel 4 programme Eden, coming back from isolation means not just coming to terms with 2017 but also the news that their year of toil in the wilderness barely made it on to television.
The programme, which first aired in July last year, was billed as a social experiment where 23 strangers were brought to the remote west Highlands of Scotland to build a self-sufficient community away from technology and modern tools. The year-long saga would be recorded by four crew members and personal cameras.
However, only four episodes of the show – covering March, April and May – were screened, as viewing figures dropped from 1.7m to 800,000. Sexual jealousy, infighting and hunger also meant that over the year, a reported 13 of the 23 contestants left the show, though Channel 4 would not confirm the dropouts.
Despite the show being taken off air, those still toiling for survival in the wilds of the 600-acre estate on the Ardnamurchan peninsula were not informed that their ordeal had not been broadcast since August.
In a statement, Channel 4 said the show would return to screens later this year: “The appeal of Eden is that it was a real experiment and when filming began we had no idea what the results would be and how those taking part would react to being isolated for months in a remote part of the British Isles. That’s why we did it and the story of their time, including the highs and the lows, will be shown later this year.”
The show became something of a laughing stock among local residents who said it had been “a joke”, with some contestants smuggling in junk food and alcohol.
Speaking to the local newspaper, the Press and Journal, Maria Macpherson said: “The last 10 have left. Some of the participants were even seen in the dentist at Fort William needing treatment after eating chicken feed grit.
“It has not done this area any favours – it has just not lived up to expectations.”
The show also drew criticism from contestants who chose to leave. The first contestant to leave, Tara Zieleman, walked out claiming she had been bullied by other contestants.
In August, the participant Tom Wah tweeted that he “left because it wasn’t what I was told it was going to be. What you see on TV is all bullshit. You’re not seeing the whole picture. The programme is extremely misleading.”
On hearing that filming had finally concluded this week, Wah added that Eden was a “load of rubbish”.
Channel 4 confirmed that “the year in Eden is over and the contributors are headed back to their old lives. Eden will return to screens later this year.”
To Hollywood, where former Home Improvement star Tim Allen is the latest oppressed conservative to speak out in the hope that the world will see the evil being done to his people before it is too late. In a recent appearance on Jimmy Kimmel’s show, the voice of Buzz Lightyear smilingly compared being a conservative in Hollywood currently to living in Nazi Germany. As he demi-joked: “You get beat up if you don’t believe what everybody else believes.”
Now, there are those who feel the fact that Donald Trump is literally the president renders this analogy slightly flawed. I mean, you can’t say the odd conservative hasn’t caught a break.
In fact, you can’t really say much of what Allen said, in the view of the Anne Frank Center. “Tim, have you lost your mind?” wondered the centre’s director mildly in a statement. “No one in Hollywood today is subjecting you or anyone else to what the Nazis imposed on Jews in the 1930s — the world’s most evil program of dehumanisation, imprisonment and mass brutality, implemented by an entire national government, as the prelude for the genocide of nearly an entire people. Sorry, Tim, that’s just not the same as getting turned down for a movie role.”
Well, quite. No doubt Allen will now feel he has been persecuted even further underground – though somewhere that Toy Story cheques can still be cashed. But perhaps time has finally come for entertainers on both sides of the Trump argument to avoid all Nazi comparisons, unless they are absolutely and completely necessary.
The daddy of all podcasts, This American Life, may be on its 612th episode, but it’s still capable of dishing up a storyline that reminds you why it’s still so popular. Ask A Grown-Up looks at the idea of offering advice to teenagers, but it’s so much more than that, with lessons on love, loss and getting older.
“Where do we start?” asks Ira Glass. “With Run The Jewels,” says Sean Cole. He talks about a video he watched of El P and Killer Mike answering questions from teenage girls. “It’s 17 minutes long and I was spellbound,” he says.
Run The Jewels’ chat is from Rookie’s Ask a Grown Man, the brainchild of brainy child Tavi Gevinson. After launching her first blog at 11, she has turned celebrities such as Beastie Boy Ad-Rock, Julia Louis-Dreyfus and Thom Yorke into video agony aunts, offering support to teenagers in need. “If someone really cool says they’re on your team, that stays with you,” she says.
Glass has long been a fan of Ask A Grown Man (he’s also worked as a consultant for Gevinson’s magazine Rookie) and was once asked to contribute, but he had to make balloon animals at the same time because he wasn’t famous enough to hold the attention of Rookie’s teenage audience. (Watching him fashion a Snoopy while answering questions from people who want to know about whether their crush likes them back or how the Buffy/Angel age gap worked out is magical though.)
TAL is always a masterclass in broadcasting, with no words wasted and the ability to switch points of view while maintaining warmth. But it’s when Glass launches into a monologue about his 89-year-old friend Mary, who died recently, that it demonstrates how intimate and moving its storytelling can be. “OK, this is a very personal thing to say on the radio,” he says, voice crackling. “But my wife and I separated a few years ago so Mary has usually been the person who I talk to last before I’d go to sleep.” It leads him to think about being a grownup and losing friends. “The ones you love die off and then, and this is a total unforeseen pisser, you miss their crappy bad advice. Because even the worst advice from a friend comes with a second message: ‘I got your back.’”
If you like this, try this… Radiolab
The first thing they did on arrival was to have another breakfast. Just as if she had known what they would like Bella had made popovers for them; as well there was the most amazing fruit. Blueberries, the size of gooseberries, served with thick cream. Purple figs. Little cantaloupe melons cut in half and iced...
The Painted Garden, Noel Streatfeild
---
When I was 12, we won a competition at our local shopping centre. We could claim the prize in any store we liked and, at my stepfather’s urging, mum bypassed the grocery store, and the furniture store, and instead walked straight into the travel agent, where she purchased four return flights to Europe. Six months later, we landed at Heathrow airport, and spent the next three weeks travelling through the English countryside, before visiting Paris, Tuscany, and finally London. It was a formative trip for me; the beginnings of a sense of certainty that this is where I was meant to live. Just under 10 years later, I made the move permanent.
This month, I am on another trip, with the children I am a nanny for. We have come to Santa Barbara, California, in search of vitamin D, and the feeling of sand between our toes. We’ve spent the past weeks alternating between laying our towels on beaches, and putting on our trainers and hiking up into the hills. We’ve made tacos, and found fields of wildflowers, and stopped to listen to water rushing over rocks. It’s been heavenly, so good that all our big plans for heading out of town for a couple of days have fallen by the wayside, and we’ve instead attempted to explore every corner of Santa Barbara.
This is my first holiday with children, and it’s a completely new experience. I have found that I’ve been emulating my dad: reading The Hobbit with them on lazy afternoons, building sand sculptures around them on the beach, and bribing them with stories and a backpack full of snacks when we venture out on hikes.
While here, on the back of several enthusiastic Twitter recommendations, I have read The Painted Garden (published in the US as Movie Shoes). It’s about an English family who travel to California for the winter, after the family doctor prescribes their father a generous dose of sunshine. Like so many of Noel Streatfield’s young characters, the siblings are artistically talented: Rachel studies ballet and Tim is a gifted pianist. Jane often feels out of step with her brother and sister, but it is she who is cast as Mary Lennox in a film version of The Secret Garden, after a chance encounter with the Hollywood director who lives next door.
Their journey from London to Los Angeles, on the Mauretania, and then across the country by train, is quite an adventure. They finally arrive at their aunt’s home on the west coast, and have the most incredible breakfast. These popovers, which they try for the first time on the train to Chicago, are a welcome to their new home. And so, in our temporary home in Santa Barbara, I had to make a batch. They’re Yorkshire puddings by another name, really, but the idea of having them with jam for breakfast is a new one I’ll be adopting.
Makes 12
Ingredients 60g unsalted butter 220g plain flour 1tsp salt 2 eggs 250ml milk
To serve Honey Fruit compote (equal quantities berries and sugar, brought to a gentle simmer for a couple of minutes)
Equipment Deep muffin tray Mixing bowl or jug Whisk
1. Preheat the oven to 220C. Once the oven is at temperature, generously grease the muffin pans, then distribute the rest of the butter between the 12 pans. Put the tray on a low rack in the oven to heat up for a couple of minutes. Keep an eye on it; you don’t want the butter to burn.
2. Tip the flour and salt into the bowl and make a well in the centre. Crack in both eggs. Whisk to incorporate some of the flour into the eggs, but don’t mix in all of it, or the mixture will become lumpy. Tip some of the milk into the centre, and continue incorporating the flour. Once you have poured all the milk in, whisk a final time.
3. Pull the tray out of the oven, being careful not to splash the butter. Fill each pan 2/3 full with batter, and quickly transfer the tray back the oven, on a low shelf.
4. Bake for 15 minutes, then reduce the oven temperature to 180C and bake for a final 15 minutes. Don’t open the oven to check them, or they’ll deflate. Eat immediately with honey, jam, or any other breakfast spread you fancy.
The death of Colin Dexter has rightly brought tributes from the literary community, but the writer also has a very special place in the history of television. Apart from Charles Dickens – whose use of the serial format and exaggerated characters anticipated the demands of popular TV drama – Dexter is the novelist who has had most individual impact on the medium’s fiction output.
This impact is partly measured by volume. Dexter’s 13 books about the operatic, alcoholic, argumentative Oxford detective Endeavour Morse, have resulted in 93 peak-time dramas on ITV: 33 episodes of Inspector Morse, 42 of the sidekick spin-off Lewis, and 17 so far of a prequel, Endeavour. Dexter lived to 86, and it would be a fitting tribute if the TV afterlife of his characters reaches at least 100.
But beyond those numbers, the Morse franchise, which began on television 30 years ago, was largely responsible for making detective fiction the centrepiece of mainstream British schedules. When producer Kenny McBain and dramatist Anthony Minghella premiered their first adaption of a Morse novel, The Dead of Jericho in January 1987, it was considered revolutionary (and by some in broadcasting, reckless) to hand over two hours of airtime to a police procedural – a length previously reserved for bought-in movies, or perhaps a Christmas or Easter special.
It soon became clear, though, that the extra time allowed a luxurious visual slowness – and an intensely deliberative performance from John Thaw in the title role – that took the genre into new areas of writing, direction, acting, and, with its shots of historic Oxford, location filming. The lessons it taught about place and pace have never been forgotten. In the leisurely, immersive experience it offered, Inspector Morse was box-set television long before the concept existed.
It was a sadness for Dexter to have long outlived McBain, Thaw and Minghella, who all died cruelly young, and the death of the novelist now means that all of the key creative founders of this remarkable TV drama dynasty have gone.
But, as well as changing the form of TV crime fiction, the Morse franchise also expanded the range of sources. Many of the crime writers who have flourished in screen adaptation – Arthur Conan Doyle, Georges Simenon, PD James, Ruth Rendell, Ian Rankin – were already recognised bestsellers before television interest, and it is still possible, as Peter James has shown with his Roy Grace series, to be a super-selling novelist without being eligible for a Bafta.
Dexter, however, is a prime example of a writer whose reputation and readership were largely dependent on the TV visibility of the stories. This had creative advantages: with the bulk of the audience having little ownership of the characters, it was easier for Minghella and McBain to make large departures from the originals. Morse and Lewis (played on screen by Kevin Whately) were written more subtly for screen than page, although the key aspect of the books – the ingenious plots constructed by the crossword-obsessed novelist – were sensibly preserved intact. And some of Dexter’s literary inventions gained from visualisation: notably, a mystery that turned on mistaken lip-reading.
So, not having known of Morse until they saw him played by Thaw, TV writers and producers started trawling libraries and second-hand bookshops for little-known or now out-of-print books that might be popularised or resurrected by television. Beneficiaries included Caroline Graham, whose novels inspired Midsomer Murders, and Alan Hunter, creator of the George Gently mysteries, a largely forgotten crime sequence from which the writer Peter Flannery has now spun seven BBC1 series.
Other types of literature have also gained from the evidence of the Dexter case that little-known books can become must-know shows. Two trilogies of period memoirs – Jennifer Worth’s Call the Midwife and Flora Thompson’s Lark Rise to Candleford – were turned, by the writers Heidi Thomas and Bill Gallagher respectively, into Sunday-night blockbusters for BBC1. In both cases, broadcasting has brought the authors a posthumous fame that they would have found astonishing in their writing lives. This happened because those series are examples of books from the past being perfectly placed to serve a present need in television: in this case, stories with strong central female roles.
Recently, the crime writer Ann Cleeves, whose Vera and Shetland series have both become staples of peak-time, has come closest to Dexter in the beneficial effects of TV on a writing career. Both of the Cleeves series, though, are occupying a space that Morse helped to create in the schedules. Each offered, as Dexter’s Oxford had, a camera-friendly setting: Northumbria and Shetland.
There is still a snobbery among some readers and literary critics that most fictions are reduced by filming. But Colin Dexter was a novelist whose stories proved to be peculiarly suited to TV, in allowing unusually detailed examination of faces and places. His Morse and Lewis changed TV crime drama for the better, and forever.
The two major cello works paired up here by Johannes Moser deal with nostalgia in ways that are poles apart. It’s Tchaikovsky’s sunny Variations on a Rococo Theme that comes off best. Moser plays the composer’s original version, and sets off at a brisk trot – rococo is not going to be a byword for prissy. But the lightness is balanced by a gently yearning lyricism, and he shapes the minor-key variation into one long, seamless line. The playful exchanges between cello and orchestra in the next variation are beautifully handled; throughout, Andrew Manze and the Orchestre de la Suisse Romande are supportive at every turn. They and Moser also do a lovely job of the three short Tchaikovsky pieces that fill up the disc. Elgar’s dark Cello Concerto brings a performance from Moser that is mercurial, imaginative and, unsurprisingly, more obviously heart-on-sleeve, but the finale feels too impulsive to knit the whole thing together.
This debut disc from pianist Chiyan Wong is a bit of a guilty pleasure. Liszt’s operatic fantasies are gloriously over the top – unapologetic showcases for the composer’s phenomenal technique and ability to shape a melodic line while the piano explodes around it. Wong skilfully balances fire, flair and levity, and has a knack for nudging the melodies gently round their corners. In the Lisztian spirit, he even adds a few ideas of his own. The Grande Fantaisie on Pacini’s opera Niobe starts playfully then melts into a slow section of ethereal, held-breath delicacy. The Réminiscences on Halévy’s La Juive, plus two better-known Mozart fantasies, complete the selection. The Fantasie on themes from Figaro and Don Giovanni garlands Figaro’s Non più andrai with as many notes as even this tune’s sturdy branches can hold. Listen to all four together and you might feel queasy; one at a time is a treat.
Late-night hosts have taken aim at the latest 24 hours in the Trump administration, focusing on the extended confirmation hearing for Neil Gorsuch and other problems.
On The Daily Show, Trevor Noah spent time discussing Gorsuch and the strangely informal way that many Republicans have been addressing him throughout the hearing, calling it “dicking about”.
“You know what this whole meeting reminded me of?” he said. “It reminded me of that scene in a heist movie when the criminals can’t believe they got away with the biggest theft of all time.”
He then played footage of Ted Cruz looking lovingly at Gorsuch. “Wow, I haven’t seen Ted Cruz that giddy since that one time he got a LinkedIn request,” he said.
He added: “That’s a man who’s reconsidering same-sex unions.”
On Full Frontal, Samantha Bee talked about the president’s disastrous run of bad decisions. “He’s been bombing harder than Mike Huckabee at an open mic night,” she said.
His healthcare bill and budget proposals have both gone down badly with Republicans, but Bee warned: “He’s got the might of the Russian army behind him.”
She also spoke about how the budget was an attempt to summarize Trump’s many speeches and beliefs to this point. “Distilling Trump’s spittle-flecked campaign jeremiads and incoherent revenge fantasies into policy isn’t an exact science, and if it were an exact science, this budget would defund it,” she said.
She also showed a graph that highlighted the large increase in proposed military spending compared to the much smaller budgets for other areas. “This kind of sounds like when an insecure guy tries to make his penis look bigger by shaving down everything else around it,” she said.
Budget director Mick Mulvaney also claimed that the proposal was no different to any family making cuts here and there. “Families routinely tweak their budgets by canceling their kids’ education, throwing out all their books and medicine, selling their smoke detectors and redirecting all their money to guns, ammo and a moat stocked with alligators,” Bee joked.
On The Late Show, Stephen Colbert spoke about Trump’s healthcare bill, which is still proving unpopular. “The bill has a pre-existing condition: everybody hates it,” he said.
He also referred to reports that Trump aides are still having to pacify him by showing positive news coverage when he is feeling attacked. “They treat the president the same way you treat a five-year-old throwing a tantrum,” he said.
On Late Night with Seth Meyers, the host played footage of Trump talking about Abraham Lincoln and stating that not many people are aware that he was also a Republican.
“This can only mean one thing: Trump just found out Lincoln was a Republican,” Meyers said. “Dude, the Republicans literally call it the party of Lincoln. Did you think they were talking about the car?”
He also spoke about the need for Trump to make a public apology over his false claim that Obama ordered a wiretap on him. “It doesn’t hurt a normal person to say sorry, but it might kill Trump,” he said. “I don’t even think his mouth can make those words.”
There’s also been a fresh set of accusations against Trump’s former campaign manager Paul Manafort and his ties with Russia, but White House press secretary Sean Spicer has now claimed he had a very limited role within the party. “To be fair, I’m pretty sure everyone involved in the Trump campaign played a limited role, kind of like Trump is doing now with the presidency,” he said.
Look at Xavier Sabata, all wet and gladiatorial! It’s one way of selling a countertenor disc, though this one shouldn’t need it: Sabata’s selection of 18th-century Italian arias, in which a variety of troubled characters go through the mill, includes gems you won’t often hear by Orlandini, Ariosti, Handel, Hasse and others, and showcases a supple, communicative voice that is honeyed and forthright by turns. But the relentless bounce and in-your-face character of George Petrou’s orchestra won’t be to all tastes; the aria from Vivaldi’s Il Farnace – which is, admittedly, inspired by a horrific dramatic situation – sounds like it’s being played on elastic bands stretched around a biscuit tin. This does at least make for a bold contrast with Sabata’s voice, which takes on extra sweetness in these long, sinewy lines; elsewhere, the most athletic fast passages can sound choppy. He’s going to need a lot of towelling down.
The photographer Ray Rathborne, who has died aged 73, was driven by a search for perfection that occasionally tested the patience of those who worked with him but produced some memorable images, including covers for Time and Radio Times and a powerful poster campaign for the Salvation Army. Later he turned to cinematography and directed commercials for clients such as British Leyland, Guinness and Land Rover, often on expensive shoots in faraway locations.
Ray’s famous photograph for the Salvation Army campaign in 1967 featured a peak-capped volunteer holding a small child in a blanket next to the words: “Now will you care?” A 1969 Radio Times cover introduced a striking new Doctor Who, Jon Pertwee, with his black and red cape flowing, eyes bulging and hands moving towards the camera, while his Time cover for a 1983 feature on the tribes of Britain showcased a Mohican-haired “punk”, hands on hips, in ripped T-shirt and leather accoutrements.
Ray’s pictures were made rather than taken: not so much products of Henri Cartier-Bresson’s “decisive moment” as of many unsatisfactory moments when some aspect or other of the image in his viewfinder didn’t please him. It might be the light or the composition, too much movement – or too little. John Chillingworth, who began his career in the more carefree documentary traditions of Picture Post, thought that Ray’s meticulous picture-making “came from something deep inside him, something that translated into his idea of perfection”.
In journalism as well as in advertising, his dedication to the perfect had remarkable results. In the winter of 1976-77 we visited India together on a couple of assignments for the Sunday Times: the first on the country’s railways, then still mainly steam-powered; the second on the “eye camps”, the tented operating theatres that toured rural India, where near-blind villagers queued to have their cataracts removed. Ray took an assistant with him as well as a bewildering heap of equipment over which the assistant would stand guard in turbulent bazaars and railway stations. It was the opposite of how photo-reportage is meant to be – unobtrusive and quick – but out of it came a series of painterly images that dignified rather than disguised the reality.
An only child, Ray was born in Trealaw in the Rhondda valley and grew up in Hammersmith – his parents moved to London after his father, a lorry driver, got a job with Ford’s at Dagenham. He left school at 15 and, gripped by a passion for photography, began work as a freelance assistant to photographers such as Chillingworth and James Mortimer, who mixed editorial and commercial work.
Like every assistant he worked as a general dogsbody, carrying bags and setting up lights, but he soon began to be noticed for his clever anticipation of what equipment would be needed, as well as his ability to calm and charm the subjects of portraits. When John Hedgecoe was asked to photograph the Queen in profile for a new series of stamps, it was Ray who went with him to Buckingham Palace.
Ray’s big break came during a visit to New York, when he was hired as an assistant to Richard Avedon, then near the peak of his celebrity as a fashion and portrait photographer. The experience with Avedon made him confident enough to set up as a photographer in his own right on his return to London, where he established his first studio in St John’s Wood.
For a time he shot fashion pictures for the Observer and a few features for the Sunday Times, but it was already clear that advertising offered a far more lucrative career and one to which his technical gifts were well suited.
Money from his advertising work paid for an office in London, a succession of powerful cars and a house in the Wiltshire village of Lacock, where the pioneer photographer Henry Fox Talbot had lived and died.
Latterly Ray lived in the Roseland peninsula, Cornwall, in a house surrounded by olive trees that he had expensively imported on the grounds that if he could not live in St Tropez (he said his French wasn’t up to it), St Tropez could come to him.
Ray was at his most confident behind a camera – in other situations he had a hesitant charm. He never married, though female partners came and went and he remained close to most of them. He doted on his terrier, Poppy, and spent many thousands on the operations that kept her alive. His friends remember him for his loyalty, generosity and sense of fun.
• Ray Rathborne, photographer, born 19 September 1943; died 13 February 2017
Aquarius is a rich and complex character study from the Brazilian auteur Kleber Mendonça Filho: densely observed, scrupulously realised, and with a wonderful lead performance. There’s an expansiveness to this film’s intelligence; it has a diffuse narrative focus, bringing in a host of scenes, sights and sounds that a leaner and more obviously unidirectional drama might have chopped out. But none of it is superfluous.
Clara, terrifically played by Sônia Braga, is a retired music critic: Braga gives her a shrewdly judged mixture of vulnerability and hauteur. She lives in the Brazilian seaside town of Recife, where she has celebrity status, and the local equivalent of national-treasure prestige. The passionate devotion to music in her newspaper columns has made her well known, and her trenchant opinions, combined with an imperious manner and opulent nonconformism has made her a force to be reckoned with. She has the respectful title of “Dona Clara”, a widow with grownup children with kids of their own. They come around periodically, but this is no placid grandma: Clara is a beautiful, sensuous woman who likes sex. Braga gives her the elegant look of Audrey Hepburn. She cultivates the bohemian lifestyle and the divaish temperament of a public intellectual, with something of the arrogance and entitlement of someone who takes her membership of the governing class casually. She can be a little high-handed with her maid Ladjane (Zoraide Coleto).
Clara is devoted to her flat in the small apartment building called Aquarius. She inherited it from her adored Aunt Lucia, a dissident, romantic intellectual and resistance veteran of Brazil’s era of military rule, to whom we are introduced in the opening flashback sequence. It is Lucia’s style she has clearly copied. But then the building’s freehold is sold to a hard-faced property company which wants to bulldoze it and put up a glitzy, lucrative block on this prime beachfront site. Every other tenant has sold up. But tough-minded Clara refuses the developers’ blandishments and veiled threats. She hangs tough as the sinister firm tries to bully and intimidate her. Then Clara’s grownup children start pressuring her as well.
Hers is a King Lear story in its way; Aquarius is her kingdom and she is feeling the serpent-tooth sting of her children’s ingratitude. And it is a kingdom overrun by the forces of cronyism, nepotism and mediocrity in Brazil’s new political classes. Filho is fierce in his contempt for these bland corporate nabobs, but tough, too, on Clara’s haughty attitude. She is crudely derogatory about a maid who once worked for her mother, sacked on suspicion of stealing. The maid returns to Clara in a dream – a quietly brilliant moment – as a symbol of guilt associated obscurely with the wound, physical and spiritual, of her breast cancer surgery.
Clara has a complicated attitude to modernity itself; she is a generalist who loves both Heitor Villa-Lobos and Queen, her taste in pop music does not go later than the death of John Lennon, a watershed she discusses in a newspaper interview in which she claims to welcome digital formats and streaming. But it is her colossal library of vinyl LPs that overawes visitors to the apartment. She loves handling these records and pointing out that her discs may be old but they reproduce the music just as well as ever.
If Aquarius is a metaphor, perhaps it is a metaphor simply for the ageing body and its obsolescence. Clara is staying put. She’s not budging. She’s also not giving up on sex. Her mastectomy puts off a creepy silver-fox admirer, but with absolutely no self-pity Clara simply gets sex from an escort, and exults in how sex makes her feel. Sex was important to her Aunt Lucia, too. We see how she associated a certain item of furniture with an afternoon of ecstatic lovemaking, and that dresser is still there in the flat: a reminder of how sex is a persistent pulse, a thread of continuity. Clara has displaced these physical needs into her daily swim in the sea and daily flirtatious chat with the lifeguard who is rather in awe of her.
Filho gives his movie a righteously victorious ending, the implications of which, I think, are a little strained and naive, though it certainly brings the film to a conventional dramatic crunch, skewing towards bang rather than whimper. Sônia Braga was perhaps known before this for her role in Hector Babenco’s Kiss of the Spider Woman. But this performance is her finest hour.
The mid-80s were not the kindest time for 60s and 70s rock legends. For every gimlet-eyed operator who successfully navigated an alien and unforgiving landscape of power ballads, crashing snare drums, Fairlight synthesisers and MTV moonmen – the Eagles’ Don Henley and Glenn Frey; Tina Turner – there were scores who seemed utterly lost. It was a world in which the natural order of things had been turned on its head to such a degree that the drummer from Genesis was now one of the biggest stars on the planet. David Bowie, Bob Dylan, Neil Young, Joni Mitchell, Lou Reed … at best, they ended up making albums that diehard fans pick over for tiny morsels that suggest they’re not as bad as the reputations preceding them; at worst they made stuff they’d spend subsequent years loudly disowning, involving terrible clothes, inappropriate producers, awful cover versions and – in extreme cases – attempts to rap.
In theory at least, Fleetwood Mac should have been in more trouble than anyone. The band that reassembled after a four-year hiatus to record 1987’s Tango in the Night was in even greater disarray than usual. The celebrated complications in their personal lives that had fuelled 1977’s 40m-selling Rumours were still taking a psychological toll, as was the band’s celebrated capacity for excess. Singer Stevie Nicks emerged from rehab, free of cocaine but soon to become addicted to clonazepam, a tranquilliser so strong she claimed not to remember a subsequent four-month US and European tour. Nicks rarely turned up to the recording sessions at guitarist and vocalist Lindsey Buckingham’s home studio; when she did, Buckingham banished her and drummer Mick Fleetwood to a Winnebago on the driveway, horrified at the state they were in. Bassist John McVie’s drinking was out of control; he had an alcohol-induced seizure the year Tango in the Night was released. The era was brought to a suitably miserable close when Buckingham and Nicks had a physical altercation after the former announced his departure from the band.
Tango in the Night should have been a disaster; instead it sold 15m copies. But despite Buckingham’s belief that its synthesised slickness successfully “bulldozed” away the chaos behind its making, this 30th-anniversary edition, complete with two CDs of outtakes, B-sides and remixes, reveals Tango in the Night isn’t quite so straightforward. It is certainly polished to gleaming perfection – the only outtake that isn’t improved on is the version of closer You and I, four minutes longer and packed with gorgeous vocal harmonies and dreamy atmospherics, curiously excised from the album. And there’s some bulletproof pop songwriting here, a lot of it from the pen of Christine McVie, always the most poised of Fleetwood Mac’s trio of composers: Little Lies, the peerless Everywhere and Isn’t It Midnight, the latter a confection of booming drums, precise, tinkly synth and wailing guitar solos that sounds as if it’s just waiting to appear in the background of a film starring Ally Sheedy.
But there are also tracks that speak loudly about Tango in the Night’s background. Most obviously, Nicks’s performances, which are pretty frayed at the edges. She pulled herself together for Seven Wonders, a song as gold-plated as any of McVie’s – though, in fact, it was written by Sandy Stewart and her contribution to its composition extended to mishearing and thus mis-singing a line. The reality of Nicks’s situation is revealed in Welcome to the Room … Sara, a fractured retelling of her time in rehab (“This is a dream, right?”) and When I See You Again, an acoustic ballad – or as acoustic as anything got in Tango in the Night’s heavily buffed sound world – on which she sounds authentically zonked, a spectral presence at the centre of her own song.
Buckingham, meanwhile, couldn’t seem to stop an unsettled twitchiness seeping into even his most commercial songs: the staccato vocals of Family Man; the title track’s surges from quiet tension to florid solos; Big Love’s backing of grunts, moans and scampering guitar riffs. The latter found an unexpected audience in Ibiza as a Balearic anthem, but it’s hardly blissed out. Quite the opposite: it’s edgy and self-loathing (“I wake up alone with it all”); music with its eyes nervously darting about.
This deluxe reissue feels timely. Buckingham may publicly fret that Fleetwood Mac are “incredibly unhip”, but we now live in a world where their influence hangs heavy over pop, from the sound of Haim to hipster DJ collective Fleetmac Wood, who play nothing but Fleetwood Mac records. Rumours is hailed as a work of consummate songwriting power, rather than the kind of thing punk came to save us from, Tusk is viewed as an experimental tour de force rather than a confused sprawl, and even 1982’s soft-rock compromise Mirage is lauded by artists including Hot Chip. But somehow Tango in the Night has escaped critical re-evaluation: something of what you might call the unrevived 80s – the aspects of the decade too crushingly uncool to warrant nostalgia – still clings to it.
But if anything, Tango in the Night seems even more deserving of the “flawed masterpiece” tag than Tusk. The gloss can’t hide the turmoil, no matter how thickly it’s applied. As with Roxy Music’s Avalon, you’re struck by the sense of an album with something far darker and odder at its core than its reputation as a yuppie soundtrack suggests. In the 30 years since its release, the five people behind Tango in the Night have not managed to make another album together. That’s a pity – as the run of albums that began with 1975’s Fleetwood Mac and ended here demonstrates, the quintet were once an unstoppable musical force, even when forces conspired to stop them. But listening to Tango in the Night’s repeated lurches from breeziness to angst and sparkle to gloom, it doesn’t seem terribly surprising.
Though the percussion concerto A Table of Noises opens this exceptional collection, and provides its title, there’s another equally impressive concerto here. Witness to a Snow Miracle, for violin and orchestra, is not only one of Simon Holt’s finest achievements to date, but one of the most memorable British orchestral scores of the last 30 years. Without ever being explicitly programmatic, its seven short movements are based on the life and death of St Eulalia, Chloë Hanslip’s solo violin seems to veer between portraying the child saint herself and being an onlooker at her gruesome martyrdom.
In its own typically idiosyncratic way, the percussion work is equally haunting. Composed for Colin Currie, ], and inspired by Holt’s memories of a great uncle who was a one-legged taxidermist, it limits the soloist to the instruments he can place on a table, yet generates an astonishing variety of pitched and unpitched textures that punctuate the orchestra’s riffs and manic clockworks. The two concertos are separated by a short orchestral piece, St Vitus in the Kettle, which is also about a saint who suffered a grisly fate; like everything else here, both the performance under Nicholas Collon and the recording capture the fierce brilliance of Holt’s sound world exactly. Unreservedly recommended.
• This article was amended on 24 March 2017 to correct the spelling of Nicholas Collon’s forename.
What was happening around Los Angeles when the US civil war began? I bet you don’t know. I’ve written a book about pre-war Kansas, but I hadn’t given any thought to the LA of the time until I read Davina Langdale’s first novel. It turns out it was much more interesting than I might have suspected: more populous, more connected to the east, more culturally diverse, and, of course, plenty violent.
The Brittle Star is a romance in the strict sense of the word – a young man, with a conscience and only a few flaws, sets out to right a wrong. In this case, John Evert Burn is the only child of his American father and Spanish mother. The father has died and the mother is attempting to run the ranch; a neighbour, Phineas Dunn, who owns the adjacent property, is trying to take the Burn ranch any way he can. Late one night, raiding warriors from a local Paiute band burn down the house, injure John Evert with an axe, and kidnap his mother. John Evert’s quest is to find and rescue his mother, but, as with all quests, his real job is to grow up, see the world, and maybe find love along the way.
Langdale is British, so she introduces two amusing English characters who might be missing from a novel written by an American: Hector Featherstone, a young lawyer who is exceptionally well groomed for his place and time, and Bill, a rough but generous bounty hunter who turns out to be a former pirate. Perhaps because of her background (she studied zoology and then devoted herself to great ape research in Africa), Langdale is excellent at delineating landscapes both natural and human. Her pre-civil war Los Angeles is busy with all types of men and women, who have all types of stories to tell; her sparsely inhabited mountainous farm landscape is lively with birds and trees and animals.
Because the novel is set in the future Orange County, there are plenty of fascinating places to go. Every young knight has a mentor, and even though John Evert knows his mentor should be Hector, he can’t resist tough guy Bill. Unfortunately, but perhaps inevitably, Bill and John Evert head east and get themselves entangled in the war, which threatens to overwhelm the plot almost completely.
One of the purposes of historical fiction is to rewrite the cliches of past eras. Langdale’s most pointed attempt to do so is personified by two characters John Evert meets on his journey east – Kusox, one of the Indians employed by the union army as trackers, and Robinson, a slight and silent boy who turns out not to be a boy after all, but a young woman as shy as a fawn and as stubborn as Susan Sarandon.
The Brittle Star is readable all the way to the end because Langdale seems to have done her research. I say “seems”, because that is all that matters, really – she puts it on the page with such detail and self-confidence that I believe every word. At one point, Bill’s identity is revealed: “Ewing tossed a photograph upon the table. Bill had taken an interest in the new-fangled portable machines, but had had the good sense to stay on the other side of the camera, studying its mechanism. However, he had been caught unawares in this photograph, in which he was seated in profile in the background of a group portrait.”
Instantly, I can see them – all those sober black and white civil war photographs I have gazed at over the years. Langdale appears not only to have visited Anaheim and the Mission San Juan Capistrano, but to have travelled between them on horseback, to have immersed herself and therefore the reader in the feel of the time and place.
The Brittle Star is a great beginning to what I hope is a long and productive career. Langdale is clearly inquisitive, smart and restless, eager to shine some light on people and events hitherto overlooked. She writes in the brisk, eloquent style of an author who is more interested in the real world than the inner life, and I suspect that is what we need at the moment.
• Jane Smiley’s Last Hundred Years trilogy is published by Picador. The Brittle Star is published by Sceptre. To order a copy for £12.74 (RRP £14.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
Ryan Gosling has explained the mysterious fit of the giggles he suffered at last month’s Oscars ceremony.
The La La Land actor was pictured attempting to hold back laughter as it was revealed that his film had incorrectly been awarded best picture.
Gosling’s giggling attracted considerable attention online, with some contrasting it to the horrified reaction of the rest of La La Land’s cast and crew. But Gosling has explained that he was merely expressing his relief that the disruption on stage wasn’t the result of something more serious.
“I was watching people start to have this panicked reaction in the crowd,” he told the Adobe Summit in Las Vegas, according to Entertainment Tonight. “Guys were coming on with headsets and I felt like someone had been hurt.
“I thought there was some kind of medical situation, and I had this worst-case scenario playing out in my head. And then I just heard Moonlight won and I was so relieved that I started laughing,” he added.
Moonlight was belatedly declared the best picture winner after Faye Dunaway mistakenly announced that La La Land had won the award. It emerged that Warren Beatty, who was presenting the award with Dunaway, had been handed the incorrect envelope by representatives of PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accountancy firm that oversees Oscars voting. Academy Awards head Cheryl Boone Isaacs later announced that the PWC partners in question, Brian Cullinan and Martha Ruiz, would be banned from working at future Oscars ceremonies.
Despite the mix-up, Gosling said he was pleased for the eventual best-picture winner. “Truthfully, I was also so thrilled that Moonlight won. It’s such a groundbreaking film, made for a million dollars, an incredible achievement, and I’m so happy for them that they were being recognised,” he said.
Beethoven’s last three piano sonatas contain more than enough musical substance to make a satisfying programme just as as they are. But Steven Osborne added one tweak to that standard sequence, prefacing each of the sonatas with one of the intermezzos from Brahms’s Op 117 set, reversing the order of those jewel-like pieces so that the third intermezzo, in C sharp minor, came before Beethoven’s Op 109, the B flat minor second preceded Op 110, and the lullaby-like first in E flat was a prelude to the thunderous opening of Op 111.
The Brahms certainly provided moments of cool reflection and contrast, though each was a fresh, seriously considered performance in its own right. But then everything in the recital conveyed the sense of thoughtfulness, without ever seeming precious or contrived. Sections of Op 109 were straightforward to the point of bluntness, alongside others spun from the most refined threads of sound. Even when ideas didn’t quite work – Osborne’s tempo for the central section of Op 110’s scherzo was a bit too reckless, for instance – they were almost always framed by others that were wonderfully successful, whether it was the simple eloquence of the roving left-hand line in the first-movement development of the same sonata, or the unfussy unfolding of the fugues in its finale.
Some of Osborne’s playing was unflinchingly powerful – the close of Op 110 was shattering, the climaxes of Op 111’s set of variations ecstatically intense. But unlike Igor Levit’s late Beethoven in the same hall four nights earlier, nothing was done just for effect; this was a pianist to responding to some of the greatest piano music ever written as honestly as he could.

Here is this week’s playlist – songs picked by a reader from your suggestions after last week’s callout. Thanks for taking part. Read more about how our weekly series works at the end of the piece.
Sir Francis Bacon was said to have written scientia potentia est – loosely that “knowledge is power”, the title of the first song on our playlist – though he didn’t actually coin the phrase, which most likely came from much earlier Persian and Arabic texts. It’s an idea that of course lives on: Yuval Noah Harari has recently postulated that we are now living in a knowledge-based economy and that those countries mired in material economies are doomed to fight endless wars, fighting over resources such as gas and oil. The Ethiopians, with their song Knowledge Is Power, recognise that example is better than preaching, and that to get on when in Rome, you must learn their ways and do as they do.
On Tuesday the World Meteorological Organisation announced that 2016 was the hottest year since records began. It said we are entering “uncharted territory”. The last time our home was this warm was 115,000 years ago. We have rising sea levels, extremes of temperature and weather, and denial from those in power. Talking Heads say, in Road to Nowhere, “Well we know where we’re going, but we don’t know where we’ve been” – which is probably correct, because we have to imagine what life on Earth was like in the distant past, and what it will be like if our biosphere is altered only a fraction by human activity.
But while we’re still here, we might as well examine some of our experiences, ones that future generations may well forego. Introspection, for instance. Who will have the time or energy for it? Richard Hell and the Voidoids describe in Destiny Street Richard’s stepping off the curb into 10 years ago and meeting his 21-year-old self, who is horrified to see the man he became. We have now broached self-knowledge, and both Hells are disappointed.
Bill Withers, in his classic and much-covered Ain’t No Sunshine, has achieved self-knowledge – but it’s no use to him. Trouble is, he remains static, lacking a solution, unable to deal with his predicament and unable to move on. His young lady is too much of a young lady for him, and he is an old fool. He knows this and berates himself for his folly. In between beating himself up, he takes her back. She feeds his optimism, takes what she can and splits, leaving him distraught at his own foolishness, knowing that he is trapped forever in a self-destructive loop.
Sunshine again, now. I can’t tell you more than They Might Be Giants do in their wonderful Why Does the Sun Shine? (The Sun Is a Mass of Incandescent Gas). Musically, they seem to be channeling the Pogues, but their lyrics contains rather more scientific information than your average pop song. If there’s anything you need to teach a child about the sun, steer them this way.
Speaking of teaching children, Graham Nash, of Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young, wrote the first verse of Teach Your Children as adult-to-adult advice. But the last verse reverses the situation. Now the children are being asked to teach their parents. Which is fine if you can get them to listen and pay attention … Maybe you could in those days, but ultimately, no matter how they try, parents and children are always going to lose each other to new ideas.
On the other hand, some people can’t – or won’t – learn. The protagonist in XTC’s Mayor of Simpleton possesses enough self-knowledge to declare to all and sundry that he can’t have been there when brains were handed out. He’s not proud of the fact that he never learned much, but says that what you get is real, he can’t put on an act. It takes brains to do that, at least.
Lawrence Parker begat Krisna, who begat Kris, who begat KRS-One (Knowledge Reigns Supreme Over Nearly Everyone). The bridge between reggae and rap, KRS-One sent Boogie Down Productions out into the world to teach, promote, promulgate and propogate black history. He rose out of a homeless shelter in the South Bronx, and challenged the lies told by educators and threw light on their omissions. The man could have been a great schoolteacher. Boogie Down Productions’ You Must Learn features KRS-One at his most insistent, a beacon of controlled incandescence, describing how how the withdrawal of knowledge and the creation of ignorance provide the means of control.
“Something I learned today / Black and white is always gray.” SIn other words, nothing is ever cut and dried. We manipulate facts and figures so they conform to our own reality. Ambiguity and imprecision are the tools of the obfuscator, the smoke and mirrors man. Listening to Husker Dü’s Something I Learned Today, plugging in to Bob Mould’s punkishly passionate anger, a vision of an orange man appeared, his lips forming sneers and smirks as he spoke, his language veering from charcoal to ash.
Johnny Cash’s Get Rhythm provides us with the simplest solution of all, when it comes to raising ourselves from a dark and lonely place. Cash asks a shoeshine boy who works low down at peoples’ feet “on the windy corner of a dirty street,” how come he’s so cheerful. The little boy tells Johnny that he pops his shoeshine rag to the rhythm of rock’n’roll. Get rhythm, it wards off the blues. Johnny acquired knowledge that day, but for us it’s a snapshot of another time, another world, a different philosophy; all in a snappy little rock song.
In 1949 Carl Sigman and Herb Magidson sat down and wrote a song, a happy tune that survives, through various versions to this day. Three decades later, to a bouncing ska rhythm, the Specials’ Enjoy Yourself (It’s Later Than You Think) landed among us. The band’s appealing exhortations to enjoy our youth while we can are leavened with equal stress on gaining “wisdom, knowledge and understanding, these three were given free by the maker”. We learn here that knowledge need not be acquired through asceticism, pain, profound revelations or bitter experience. Joy, enlightenment, conversation and humility are all signposts on the road to wisdom.
Last, Billy Bragg’s No One Knows Nothing Any More kicks off with particle acceleration before switching to economics, corporate spin and a Zen hermit. Rather than the sound of a tree falling, Bragg hears a head banging against a wall. He finishes the song by reflecting on our hominid ancestors in the trees, cleverly evoking the story of Adam and Eve and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.
The new theme will be announced at 8pm (GMT) on Thursday 23 March. You then have until 11pm on Monday 27 March to submit nominations.
Here’s a reminder of some of the guidelines for Readers recommend:
Brian Catling is a poet and sculptor who published his remarkable 2015 novel, The Vorrh, in his late 60s. It is a fantastical work in the tradition of what is sometimes called “the new weird”. The Vorrh of the title is a primeval, unmapped jungle in the centre of Africa which may or may not be the location of the original Garden of Eden. With the second world war looming, it is now inhabited by monsters and exploited by colonial capitalists. It drives mad most who venture into it, whether seeking profits or prophets. The book has a classic quest structure, and encompasses historical figures such as the novelist Raymond Roussel and the photographer Eadweard Muybridge; it reads like Joseph Conrad trying to interpret a Max Ernst painting. It is also the first part of a prospective trilogy; The Erstwhile is the promised continuation.
The middles of trilogies are difficult things, a balancing act between closure and continuation. The middle can’t just tread water, nor can it wholly deliver. In the right hands, this very balance can be elliptically tantalising. The Erstwhile almost revels in its status as the hiatus between Genesis and Apocalypse. It applies the sleight of hand that many of the best middle-books do, for a shift of focus. Although there are still scenes set in Africa, the prime interest moves to old Europe.
Some characters persist from the first book. We still have the former cyclops Ishmael Williams (I never thought I would put together the words former and cyclops in any sentence, but that’s the nature of Catling’s viscously surreal prose), along with the Bakelite robots, a kind of steampunk homage, who educated him in the first volume. As his narrative progresses Ishmael returns to the Vorrh, and a former foe is able to leave the forest.
Catling has an eye to the wry, to the momentous absurdity of just being a thing made of flesh in a world that is not
Outside the imitation European city which parasitically thrives on the Vorrh, a lonely local woman finds a buried child that is miraculously still alive and takes it to the priest. Water shudders off the child as he tries to baptise her. She grows abnormally, and has an unrevealed mission of her own. Meanwhile, in Germany in the 1920s, emeritus professor of theology Herman Schumann is dwindling in a grace and favour retirement home. There he is asked to look at two vaguely anthropomorphic “specimens” retrieved from the Vorrh. His encounter leads him to London, where there is a similar specimen, one that can tell him much more. We discover that the “angels” – are they? Who knows? – whom God appointed to guard the Vorrh are slowly returning to consciousness and have a message for humanity.
Schumann’s quest to understand these slowly awakening angels allows Catling to loop around a lot of signs and symbols which have been used previously in the Iain Sinclair, Peter Ackroyd, Will Self and JG Ballard versions of alt-London. William Blake makes an appearance, as do Yiddish theatre, guillotines, radios that transmit from the future, premonitions of Shoah on Brick Lane, and a Ripper rumour. Some of this is part of a shared mythology of English esoterica. It’s no wonder that Sinclair, Alan Moore and Michael Moorcock have enthused over these books: Catling is using the same raw materials they do, but in a different manner.
What comes as a contrast here to the first volume is a quiet comedy, while the eeriness swirls in the background. This volume is as much Ealing Studios as James Ensor. Parts of Ishmael’s story evoke John Buchan and Erskine Childers and Anthony Hope, all swashbuckle and smarmy charm. Even in the most extreme moments Catling has an eye to the wry, to the momentous absurdity of just being a thing made of flesh in a world that is not. In something as fluorescently psychedelic as this novel and its predecessor, the reader still requires an affective hook; and in Schumann’s explorations of why the past seems clearer to the elderly than the future, we get just that.
The different narrative strands converge but do not conclude, and there is an ambiguous denouement for one of the characters. Another has a revelation that will surely be of major significance for the final volume – an answer to his question, “If the tree of knowledge was not meant for men or angels, who was it made for?” The theological and the ecological have been twinned throughout the first two books: I wonder if they will survive the conflagration of the third.
• The Erstwhile is published by Coronet. To order a copy for £15 (RRP £20) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
What a great top 10 singles from the Official Charts Company. A leading solo artist at No 1, a great British group at No 2, Radio 2 favourites at three, three hot young acts, one veteran band propelled there by fanbase sales, one beloved pop institution, and one proper wildcard. Admittedly, that’s nine, and the 10th song is by the bloke who’s at No 1, but never mind, because it’s David Bowie rather than Ed Sheeran, and this is a chart that paints a picture of pop in the UK that those who grew up watching Top of the Pops would recognise.
That chart – with Bowie joined by Depeche Mode, Take That, London Grammar, Rag’n’Bone Man, Deep Purple, Ed Sheeran, Blondie and Cigarettes After Sex (the wildcard) – is the physical chart, the one calculated by the old rules. The one where each of your sales was calculated by the fiendish method of counting the number of physical manifestations of an artist’s music that had been bought: the records, CDs, cassettes and anything else you can think of. No downloads, no complicated formula involving streams and their equivalence to sales.
Even if you ignore physical sales, and look only at downloads, then the simple fact that music is being sold creates a markedly different list to the official singles chart. Yes, Ed Sheeran’s Shape of You and Galway Girl are Nos 1 and 2, and he’s at No 6 with Castle on the Hill. But there’s also room for Chainsmokers and Coldplay, Martin Jensen, Katy Perry, Steps, Rag’n’Bone Man, Anne Marie, and Zedd and Alessia Cara. It’s more like a Radio 1 playlist than the singles chart, but it has the virtue of variety.
The vinyl singles chart is different again, with London Grammar at No 1, and top 10 placings for Slime (a reissue of a single by someone who was in punk also-rans Johnny Moped), Buzzcocks (their 1977 EP Spiral Scratch), hard rock supergroup Chickenfoot, as well as two singles that have been on the charts for just over and just under a year respectively, by Bon Iver and the 1975.
The three charts I’ve just looked at and the official singles chart (where Ed Sheeran still has nine of the top 10) all paint different pictures of British musical taste. None are perfect; each are skewed in their different ways. The charts that tabulate physical purchases reflect the impulses of often older buyers, for whom ownership of any music remains important, and of loyal fanbases who feel the need to possess everything their favourites release (hence the 1975’s Medicine being on the vinyl chart for 41 weeks).
It needs to be said, though, that for all the physical chart’s variety and apparent ill health, it’s a tiny segment of the market. A really tiny segment. In fact, physical sales account for just 0.03% of the UK singles market, according to the Official Charts Company, with streaming now much the dominant method of consumption. The way singles have changed is illustrated by figures from the BPI, which show that between 2013 and 2015, the average weekly streams for a No 1 single rose from 749,350 to 2,604,800.
Maybe the problem lies not so much with the charts as with those of us who still cling to the notion that the charts somehow matter, that they are a snapshot of British music. We are past the days where there can be one single picture that encapsulates the national taste (and even when it seemed possible, that picture was prone to manipulation). If the internet, as has often been argued, has fractured consensus and created niches in which particular tastes could thrive, unseen by the outside world, then the modern charts in their varying forms also capture niches, albeit niches defined by their mode of consumption.
And so the official singles chart no longer captures what people are most willing to part with money for, but what is being most listened to. The downloads chart now is the one for people who are willing to spend money. The physical chart the one for people who need to own, and the vinyl chart is the one for fetishists. Perhaps charts have become alienating to some because the web’s Balkanisation of music means people, more than ever, want and expect to see their own tastes, attitudes and behaviours reflected back to them. The official singles chart does not do that, therefore it is failing. But maybe, in the other charts, you can find something that reflects your own musical life more closely.
When people mourn the passing of the charts as a part of our national cultural life, it is not really the charts they are mourning. Instead, I suspect, its the passing of the days when they felt on top of the culture, when they didn’t look down a list of names and admit to not having heard of most of them, or pronounce the ones they had heard of boring, tuneless, shallow and vapid. That’s just what their parents probably did as well, of course, but then their parents likely didn’t continue to obsess over pop music long into adulthood. The unhappiness about the Ed Sheeran charts, then, is about confronting one’s own sense of self, and its relationship to music.
My advice? Spare yourself the grief. Ignore the official singles chart. Just look at the physical one instead – it’s much more fun. What’s that? Max Richter in at No 18? Jlin rising 56 places to No 37? And that great staple of the charts, a charity record, breaking the Top 40? That’s a chart I can get behind.
We tend to think back fondly on the recently departed, but movie-goers will chiefly remember the late John Hurt racked with pain, clutching his ribcage as a hostile extraterrestrial bursts out of him like a visceral jack-in-the-box. His spectacularly violent death in sci-fi/horror landmark Alien still stands as the film’s crowning achievement over 35 years after the fact, a sublime fusion of the gory and the unsettling. Viewers could hardly blame director Ridley Scott for drawing from that same well for his upcoming sequel Alien: Covenant, the trailer for which teases a tweak on the concept with a back-bursting parasite. Casts come and go, but the terror of playing host to a creature exploding out of your torso is eternal.
It’s a testament to the enduring potency of body horror that the Alien franchise found this longevity in the first place. Scan today’s major releases of horror and suspense, and you’ll find that the frail, vulnerable, decaying, smushy human body has remained cinema’s favorite torture chamber. The genre has stayed vital by contriving new angles and approaches that project fresh significance on to what would be otherwise tired material, while the anxiety of bodily mutilation persists across generations. Beyond scary movie trends lie the inescapable horrors of being trapped in a flesh-prison; watching the skin slacken, feeling muscles weakening, harboring disease and other maladies. Those so inclined could think of life as one extremely protracted horror movie that nobody survives.
Body horror first took (ghastly, mutated) shape on film during the 1950s through the assorted monsters-of-the-week in the pulpy B-movies popular at the time. Notable early examples include low-budget gem The Blob – a gelatinous mass engulfs a town, one swallowed limb at a time – and creature feature The Fly. That account of one scientist’s experiment gone awry got a remake a few decades later courtesy of David Cronenberg, the true godfather of body horror (another remake is also on the way). Across such films as Videodrome, The Brood, Shivers and Dead Ringers, the Canadian film-maker has gruesomely fused the body with technology, infested it with parasites, and subjected it to every stripe of degeneration. In Cronenberg’s fiendish hands, the subject contains a potentially infinite number of interpretations.
Current horror offerings have eagerly taken the torch from Cronenberg and continued to defile the human form to increasingly varied creative ends. In addition to the Alien franchise making its grand expulsive return this spring, doppelgänger release Life will likewise set an intelligent life form on a crew of unsuspecting astronauts trapped on a spacecraft. Both pictures derive their chilling psychological horror from considering the biology of an organism foreign to human knowledge, with parts that uncannily resemble human anatomy while diverging from it. The unknown can be frightening, and doubly so when it’s latched directly on to one’s face.
The black body has been a constant pop-cultural battleground ever since Billie Holliday sang of the strange fruit hanging from the poplar trees. Jordan Peele politicized the body horror tradition with his crossover hit Get Out, refashioning it as a parable about white contempt and envy for black physical excellence. (Now would be the time for the spoiler-averse to skip a paragraph.) The sinister scheme at the heart of the film’s central mystery – that the bourgeois but seemingly well-intentioned couple played by Bradley Whitford and Catherine Keener transplant the minds of elderly white townspeople into strapping black vessels – double-underlines the ongoing conflict between black and white Americans. Both the context and subtext of the film elevate a spooky genre piece into a barely covert radical statement.
Perhaps body horror owes its perennial popularity to how uniquely fertile a seeding ground it offers for hair-curling extremes of terror. Two recent releases, the French feminine coming-of-age tale Raw and Gore Verbinski’s neo-Gothic fever dream A Cure for Wellness, both target the fragile human form for shocking displays of uncommon gore as they present commentary on its gradual changes. Julia Ducournau offers a wise take on female maturity and camaraderie with Raw, but moreover, the premise (veterinary student develops a taste for human meat) provides her with a platform for displays of violence so sickening, audiences at the Toronto international film festival notoriously excused themselves to vomit. Verbinski’s latest plumbed some more graphic territory than the average studio horror property; the depravities are too good to mention here, but those viewers with sensitive teeth would do well to exercise caution.
They say death and taxes are the only things every living soul has in common; surely there’s a great horror movie about filing W-2’s out there just waiting to be written, but tapping into that universal discomfort over a disintegrating body has proven a far more reliable source for perverse fascination. The uncomfortable certainty that it’s only a matter of time until the body turns on its owner is a powerful primal force. Some people quake before clowns, some people hate spiders, but everyone has the nervous doctor’s office fantasies of what could go wrong.
In what is believed to be an industry first, the entire text of a book billed as “a practical guide to resisting the rise of totalitarianism” is to be fly-posted along an east London street next week.
US historian Timothy Snyder’s On Tyranny, out next week, is to be reproduced chapter by chapter in a series of 20 eye-catching posters pasted along Leonard Street, near Silicon Roundabout. The posters, designed by Vintage creative director Suzanne Dean and her team with students at Kingston University, will appear in sequence on Monday along the road, which is at the heart of the capital’s creative community.
Describing the book as “an attempt to distil what I have learned about the 20th century into a guide for action today”, the Yale professor said: “I can’t think of anything like this that has been done with anyone’s work before.”
He added that it was doubtful such a distillation would have been possible with his previous works, which include Bloodlands and Black Earth, both of which come in at over 400 pages, compared with On Tyranny’s 130.
In the book, the professor, who specialises in European history and the Holocaust, mixes modern history with practical lessons on how to resist tyranny. It was prompted, he said, by the shock and sense of helplessness felt by many over recent political developments in the US and UK. Utilising examples of resistance against Hitler and Stalin, each chapter includes acts of defiance readers can integrate into their daily life.
Snyder intended the book be used as “a manifesto and manual” in the fight against rising populism on both sides of the Atlantic, a situation he described as “urgent”.
“I will be more than happy if the posters themselves convey its message,” he added. “We have become unused to the stakes being high, but they are: those who control the executive branch of the US government want a regime change in my country, and the basic sense of freedom that many of us have come to take for granted in the west is under threat.”
William Smith, creative manager at Snyder’s publisher Vintage, said: “We believe it’s the first time anyone has done this to launch a book.” He said On Tyranny was a book that would get word-of-mouth recommendation, but “you need to get that word-of-mouth going”.
The east London street was chosen because “every other person around there uses Instagram and Twitter”, Smith said. It is expected that photographs of the eye-catching designs – modelled on 1930s propaganda – will be shared on social media.
Though Snyder praised the campaign, he admitted it took time for him to understand how it would work. “Any publication means the transformation of ideas into an object,” he explained. Describing the posters as “in effect a second kind of publication of the book” and its transformation from 20 lessons about tyranny into 20 original pieces of art, he said: “I didn’t grasp that until I saw the wonderful posters. This is not so much the promotion of the book as another realisation of it, free of charge in the public space.”
Was he worried when he didn’t understand it? No, he said: “Marx said that the point is not to understand the world but to change it.”
Shia LaBeouf’s anti-Trump performance art project He Will Not Divide Us has relocated from the US to Liverpool owing to safety concerns.
The project is now being exhibited at the city’s Foundation for Art and Creative Technology (Fact) gallery, as “events have shown that America is simply not safe enough for this artwork to exist”, a statement from the actor’s artistic group LaBeouf, Rönkkö & Turner said.
He Will Not Divide Us was originally installed on a wall outside New York’s Museum of the Moving Image on 20 January, the day of Trump’s inauguration. The project, which consists of a live video stream of LaBeouf and others chanting “he will not divide us” into a camera, is intended to run for four years, or the duration of the Trump presidency.
However, the site soon became a flashpoint for violence, with far-right activists regularly disrupting the exhibition. LaBeouf was arrested in January following an altercation with a man who said “Hitler did nothing wrong” into the camera. In February the museum closed the exhibition citing “serious public safety hazards”.
The project was then relocated to a wall outside the El Rey theatre in Albuquerque, but was suspended after gunshots were heard in the area. In March the project moved to an undisclosed location, and consisted of video of a white flag featuring the words He Will Not Divide Us. However, users of the message board site 4chan soon located the site and defaced the exhibition, prompting the latest move.
The project began its residency at Fact on Wednesday. Currently, the livestream for the project shows a white flag in the same style as the one displayed at the undisclosed location.
LaBeouf has previously collaborated with Fact. In 2015, the actor appeared at the gallery as part of an performance art project called #TOUCHMYSOUL, in which he answered calls from members of the public.
Bob Dylan has revealed that he is a fan of Stereophonics, and also that he cannot imagine his own writing being influenced by his series of albums of American standards, because “these melodies are so structured in musical theory, they’re so tricky with time signatures and shifting melodies, that it’s beyond me”.
In a long interview on his website, conducted by Bill Flanagan, Dylan discussed the making of Triplicate, his new triple album of classics from the American songbook, along with growing up in Minnesota, his first exposure to rock’n’roll and his tour bus TV viewing habits (“I Love Lucy, all the time, non-stop”).
Here are some highlights:
On why Triplicate is three discs of 32 minutes
“It’s the number of completion. It’s a lucky number, and it’s symbolic of light. As far as the 32 minutes, that’s about the limit to the number of minutes on a long playing record where the sound is most powerful, 15 minutes to a side. My records were always overloaded on both sides. Too many minutes to be recorded or mastered properly. My songs were too long and didn’t fit the audio format of an LP. The sound was thin and you would have to turn your record player up to nine or 10 to hear it well. So these CDs to me represent the LPs that I should have been making.”
On the appeal of songs from the pre-rock age
“These songs are some of the most heartbreaking stuff ever put on record and I wanted to do them justice. Now that I have lived them and lived through them, I understand them better. They take you out of that mainstream grind, where you’re trapped between differences which might seem different but are essentially the same. Modern music and songs are so institutionalised that you don’t realise it. These songs are cold and clear-sighted, there is a direct realism in them, faith in ordinary life, just like in early rock’n’roll.”
On whether the American songbook would influence his own writing
“I doubt it. These melodies are so structured in musical theory, they’re so tricky with time signatures and shifting melodies, that it’s beyond me. It’s hard to be influenced by any of it if you’re not familiar with that world. I could be influenced by a part of a melody or a phrase, but that would be about it. I don’t think I’d be influenced by anything lyrically.”
On whether Triplicate is nostalgic
“Nostalgic? No, I wouldn’t say that. It’s not taking a trip down memory lane or longing and yearning for the good old days or fond memories of what’s no more. A song like Sentimental Journey is not a way back when song, it doesn’t emulate the past, it’s attainable and down to earth, it’s in the here and now.”
On his favourite recent music
“Iggy Pop’s Après, that’s a good record. Imelda May, I like her. Valerie June, the Stereophonics. I like Willie Nelson and Norah Jones’ album with Wynton Marsalis, the Ray Charles tribute record. I liked Amy Winehouse’s last record.”
I was brought up on @bobdylan - to get a nod from the Master, makes me wanna write a new song! Kelly https://t.co/vtCwxXnpJw
Back in 1920, Henry Louis Mencken and George Jean Nathan ran a magazine for the well-heeled women and their sugar daddies up on Long Island: the Smart Set, they called it.
The Smart Set wasn’t doing so well – but Mencken had an idea. He had noticed that a periodical called Detective Story Magazine, was flying off newsstands, so he started his own crime pulp: Black Mask, the first issue of which landed in October 1920, complete with a woman being menaced with a burning branding iron on the cover.
Mencken had no illusions about Black Mask, writing to a friend that it was “a lousy magazine” but “it has kept us alive during a very bad year”. After just eight issues, Mencken and Nathan sold it on to a Madison Avenue publishing company – but there it pioneered a brand new genre: the hardboiled detective story.
Hardboiled is all about cynical, complex detectives; think of Humphrey Bogart’s turns as Raymond Chandler’s Philip Marlowe or Dashiell Hammett’s private eye, Sam Spade. What’s now considered the first hardboiled story was published by Black Mask in 1922: The False Burton Combs, written by Carroll John Daly (“I ain’t a crook; just a gentleman adventurer and make my living working against the law breakers. Not that work I with the police – no, not me. I’m no knight errant either.” The archetype was born: men out for justice and/or revenge, pounding perpetually rainy streets in a dark American city. But isn’t he an anachronism today?
“I suspect he always was,” says author Lawrence Block, who has been writing noir for 60 years. “Which is not to say that there aren’t a fair number of such lads walking around at present. I suppose the character owes much of his appeal to being the sort of person the reader would be if he could.”
Amid an explosion of pulp crime magazines – Dime Detective, Detective Tales, Strange Detective, Ace G-Man Stories – in the 20s and 30s, Black Mask would publish some of the greats: Hammett’s The Maltese Falcon, early stories by Chandler, and Erle Stanley Gardner. As postwar paperbacks took off in the 50s, the market began to decline, but some periodicals endured – including Manhunt, on which a teenage Block got his big break in 1957, with You Can’t Lose. Now 78, Block is the writer behind creations including alcoholic ex-cop turned private eye Matthew Scudder and gentleman burglar Bernie Rhodenbarr.
Isn’t it tough to make readers embrace heroes with ambiguous morality? “Is it?” says Block. “I wonder. I guess I assume that if I can sympathise with a character, so can a reader. And if I can’t connect with the essential humanity of any of my characters, then I’m doing something wrong.”
Block’s early books are still published today – by Hard Case Crime, an imprint set up by Charles Ardai and Max Phillips to both bring lost noir classics back into print and to find new voices working the beat today. “We both grew up loving old paperback crime novels, but we were born too late to write books like those ourselves,” Ardai says. “Fifty years later, when we started writing novels, there were no more publishers left.”
Is the form still relevant? Ardai thinks so. “Some of it is nostalgia, sure – the appeal of the period trappings: the men in trenchcoats and fedoras, the femme fatale in her negligee, gun in hand. But nostalgia only gets you so far. It might make you pick up one book once, but it won’t make you buy another every month.”
“I think crime fiction is one of the most resilient and flexible means to tell a story,” says Alex Segura, author of a series of hardboiled detective stories starring PI Pete Fernandez. “It allows you to touch on social issues, on the inner quests and struggles we all face, and spin a compelling yarn at the same time. Especially now, with all the uncertainty we’re facing politically, the hardboiled PI – whose primary function is to ask the tough questions and press forward against stronger forces that don’t want their secrets uncovered – and the crime genre are all the more essential,” Segura says. “The PI will always be struggling to find answers to questions that people want to bury. That’s always interesting, and sadly, very relevant now.”
The best noir stories, Ardai says, could have been written today, even if they’re 50, 60, 70 years old. “Corruption and violence are hardly things of the past. Men in power taking advantage of the weak and getting away with murder – that’s the stuff of headlines today,” he says. “People turning to crime in desperation or out of frustration and anger. Frightened men on the run, or vengeful ones on the hunt – when did that ever go out of date?”
The only thing to go out of date is the idea that dames can’t write. Christa Faust sold her first story when she moved to Los Angeles in the early 90s and writes for Hard Case Crime. Her books have titles such as Choke Hold and Money Shot.
Faust likes the form, despite how women are treated in them – slapped at the nearest sign of emotion and usually the murder victim. “They’re like a form of time travel,” she says. “But I also like living in an era when I can be taken seriously, don’t need to have children to be considered a ‘real’ woman and can legally marry anyone I love.”
What bothers her is when modern writers use the excuse “that’s just how things were then” to write what she calls “fan fiction that indulges all their own sexist fantasies and juvenile wish fulfilment”. The ol’ broad-slapping archetype is less crucial to the genre than, say, the complexities of a gumshoe’s moral code. “Way too many modern writers and film-makers get hung up on the fedora and forget that real noir is about what’s going on underneath the hats,” says Faust. “Those original novels and movies already exist. Why copy them exactly if you aren’t bringing anything fresh to the table?”
The essence of the hardboiled character is as vital today as it was then, says Faust. “If you mean a complex, conflicted loner with a generally cynical worldview who gets mixed up in criminal endeavours but maintains a strong, though often unconventional, moral code. A wise-cracking, ruggedly handsome middle-aged white guy in a fedora and trenchcoat who slaps women and then kisses them? Maybe not so much.”
Charles Ardai needs a lot of convincing if he’s going to take on your hardboiled novel for Hard Case Crime. “You have to bring something new either way, or else the reader will be bored. It’s no fun at all to read cliches or stories that feel like you’ve read them a hundred times before,” he says. “Yes, we all love Chandler, but we already have one of him. We already have Elmore Leonard. We don’t need more imitations of those great men. But a new voice, one that makes the pages race by and your heart race as you turn them? That we always need. And happily, that’s what we keep discovering, year after year.”
After the EU referendum result, says Tez Ilyas, conversations about race and identity need to take place. Hence his current show, Made in Britain, which stakes a light-hearted but trenchant claim for the Britishness of his “BNP” – British National Pakistani – life so far. Ilyas is a cheeky chappie from Blackburn, more Opportunity Knocks than op-ed, and his show can easily be enjoyed as perky comedy. But he doesn’t soft-soap his indignation that some would consider him, and people like him, insufficiently British – and his show makes a persuasive counter-argument, thanks in part to its peaceable good humour in the face of such provocation.
A balance is adroitly struck from the off between ingratiating himself and playing up his supposed difference. The opening routine, about the N-word, defuses tension by asserting his own, very British angst about political correctness, then follows up with some larky dancing to south Asian music. A later neat joke finds him struggling to remember the approved current terminology for white people; another – finding common cause with his likely audience, then instantly “othering” himself – tells us that: “Personally, I voted to remain in the European caliphate.”
It’s quite deftly done, this bait-and-switch technique, and keeps us ticklishly on our toes. And the pattern repeats elsewhere, as Ilyas broaches one subject after another on which a British Muslim might be assumed to have a particular take – Isis, Charlie Hebdo – before mocking that assumption in a series of rug-pulling punchlines. The point is, Ilyas’s separation from mainstream Britishness is an illusion. When he narrates a Blur-alike section, entitled Pak Life, about his Lancashire youth, it’s more familiar than exotic. His dad’s favourite comedian was Bernard Manning. On his pilgrimage to Mecca (one word summary: “Squishy”), he frets about whether queuing protocol is being correctly observed.
An audience volunteer tells our British-Pakistani host that in the US​​ he’d likely get described as Indian
Of course, this material occasionally trades on cliches of Britishness as crude as the Muslim stereotypes he mocks. And there are a few occasions when the gags are built on flimsy foundations. The demand that characters in The Jungle Book should speak with Indian accents is provocative but tenuous; the claim that Britain peaked in summer 2012 requires a very tight focus around the Olympics to sustain. At other points, Ilyas is entertaining but conventional, as with routines about his parents wishing he was a doctor, or with a closing audience participation set-piece that turns his arranged (and failed) marriage into a gameshow.
But he’s never less than good fun, and that latter skit is electrified tonight by a foot-in-mouth intervention by Ilyas’s American audience volunteer, who tells our British-Pakistani host that in the US, he’d likely get described as – dread word! – Indian. Ilyas ladles on the mock-horror, and why not – because the contingency and flexibility of such fiercely contested loyalties (to our class, our religion, our national or transnational identities) is what Made in Britain is all about. It’s a jaunty and deceptively eloquent show, sharply focused on what unites rather than divides us.
One of the lesser enigmas of life is why so many people order tomato juice on aeroplanes. Like Pavlov’s dog, I often start craving it myself the minute I do my seatbelt up. Lemon, Worcester sauce, no ice (which I find dilutes the salty thickness too much).
In the general run of things, few of us sip tomato juice for breakfast or as an aperitif, yet this savoury beverage forms 27% of all drinks orders on planes, with or without added vodka. According to one survey of more than 1,000 passengers, nearly a quarter of people will choose tomato juice when flying, even though they never drink it under other circumstances. This is exactly the kind of puzzle that interests Charles Spence, a professor of experimental psychology. In Gastrophysics, Spence notes that the “really special thing about tomato juice and Worcester sauce (both ingredients in a good bloody mary) is umami, the proteinaceous taste”. When Spence and colleagues investigated, they found that the blaring sound of being on an aeroplane – around 80-85 decibels of background noise – interferes with our ability to taste sweetness. That gin-and-tonic which tastes so sweet back on land is dulled in the air. By contrast, the noise actually increases our perception of the intensity of savoury umami flavours such as tomato juice. As we merrily ask the flight attendant to pour us a bloody mary, we have little notion that we may be driven to do so by what is happening to our ears as much as to our mouths.
One study found that people enjoyed a cup of coffee less if the coffee machine emits a horrible high-pitched noise
The book argues that eating is a far more multi-sensory experience than we usually recognise. Spence – who has worked extensively with Heston Blumenthal at his restaurant the Fat Duck – proposes a “new science of eating” to systematically observe the ways our behaviour around food are affected by all of our senses, as well as by factors such as the eating environment and even cutlery. It transpires that, to most people, meals taste better when served with heavy, expensive knives and forks. Or with no cutlery at all (Spence cites research suggesting that eating food with our hands enhances the way it feels in the mouth). Gastrophysics is about the quirks of human perception and how they play out at mealtimes: the way that red plates oddly make food taste worse, for example, whereas bowls can make it taste better. At its best, the book is wonderfully curious and thought-provoking, throwing the whole question of why we eat the way we do wide open.
Spence argues that when we reduce eating to taste or nutrition, we miss half the story. Some of his most interesting experiments – such as the tomato juice one – have shown the degree to which sound affects our enjoyment of eating. Food has a certain music, whether we are tuned into it or not. One study found that people enjoy a cup of coffee less if the coffee machine emits a horrible high-pitched noise. As Spence writes, “many of the food properties that we all find highly desirable – think crispy, crackly, crunchy, carbonated, creamy, and of course, squeaky (like halloumi cheese) – depend, at least in part, on what we hear”. His most famous experiment is his work on the “sonic chip” – winner of the Ig Nobel prize for improbable research – which could be summarised as: loud crisps taste better. He found that increasing the volume of the crunch when eating potato crisps made eaters believe they were around 15% crunchier and fresher. “You can play exactly the same sonic tricks,” Spence claims, “with apples, celery, carrots or, in fact, with any other noisy food.” He aspires to be like the Italian futurist Marinetti, who in the 1920s and 30s threw experimental dinners that used different colours and sounds and perfumes to change the mood at table.
'Patagonian toothfish' may not sound appetising, but the same repackaged as 'Chilean seabass' is suavely aspirational
Another aspect of our eating experience that gets neglected, in Spence’s view, is the role of expectation. Our enjoyment of food is far from objective. Call a piece of fish “Patagonian toothfish” and it may not sound appetising, but the same fish repackaged as “Chilean seabass” becomes suavely aspirational. It’s possible to make someone believe that the same piece of meat is saltier, greasier and less pleasant simply by calling it “factory farmed” instead of “free range”. Similarly, when served food on a larger plate, our natural reaction is to eat up to 40% more. Some of the strangest examples that Spence gives concern the way that the look of something changes the way it tastes. A detail as tiny as changing the latte art on a cappuccino from an angular star to a rounded “bouba” can make the drink appear less bitter to consumers. When in 2013 Cadbury updated its Dairy Milk bar by rounding off the edges, customers complained that the chocolate tasted sweeter than before and became convinced that the formula must have changed. But Spence’s work confirms that serving food in a rounder shape – “be it a beetroot jelly or a chocolate confection” – often makes it taste sweeter.
He admits that certain culinary experts dislike this kind of trickery, and see it as irrelevant to the more important task of making good, nutritious meals. His research is regularly dismissed by some Michelin-starred chefs, who say that good food “should speak for itself”. Spence’s riposte to this is that, however much you may believe in simplicity and provenance and an honest plate of food, “there is always a multisensory atmosphere”. Even a chef who claims to let food do all the talking will go to the trouble of buying good heavy cutlery, he observes, because a plastic or aluminium fork would “spoil the experience”. Whether we like it or not, we are all affected by these manipulations. Spence’s point is that “there is no such thing as a neutral context” for eating. The flavour in our mouths at dinnertime is affected by the company we keep, by the music playing in the room (he suggests that, for most consumers, Nina Simone enhances appetite and Justin Bieber kills it), by how expensive the ingredients were and whether we are consuming them from a hospital bed.
But eating – this most complex of human activities – is also affected by a host of factors that Spence pays less attention to. In common with other experimental psychologists, he sometimes seems to treat human beings as if they were homogeneous amalgams of sense-organs, unaffected by culture or economic circumstances. Spence does not always interrogate the assumptions behind the studies he cites. For example, he reports, uncritically, that a recent survey of 2,000 people shows that “if you are a man hoping to make a good first impression on the ladies, the top tip was to make sure not to order a salad for your main course”. He does not seem to recognise that this “finding” is less about food and more about culture and gender.
Addressing the growing number of people who eat alone, he suggests jauntily: “Next time you get peckish, why not invite someone to eat with you?” For a book on psychology, there is remarkably little here on the manifold ways that eating can become dysfunctional, from bulimia to picky eating. There are people whose problems with eating go far beyond whether their plate is the right colour. Gastrophysics is brilliant when demonstrating how much the environment of the table affects our eating – particularly at high-end restaurants – but it has less to say about what we as humans bring to the table.
• Gastrophysics is published by Viking. To order a copy for £14.99 (RRP £11.24) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
God Save the Queen – he means it, man. John Lydon has said he will “sorely miss” Britain’s monarch when she dies. The Sex Pistols/Public Image Ltd singer was appearing on the Quietus video hour when conversation turned to the topic of the recently published plans for the death of Queen Elizabeth II.
Host John Doran, a Guardian music contributor, asked Lydon if he was worried about how the Sex Pistols’ God Save the Queen might be used. After saying the song was “about a political situation and the demand for obedience to a monarchy I don’t believe in”, Lydon moved on to the question of the Queen as a person, and said: “I would sorely miss her as a human being on planet Earth.”
He said: “It’s not her fault she was born into a gilded cage. ... Can I just correct this, just slightly? Because it’s important. ‘I will miss her’ sounds ominous and I don’t want that. Long may she live. I don’t know about the “reign” part, but long may she live.”
He also added that he enjoyed the pomp and circumstance that surrounds the royal family. “I love all the pageantry, too. I loved that last wedding. Oh, when the planes flew over the palace? It reminded me of world war two and all those films, and how grim it was fighting Nazis. For me, it was a reintroduction to history, lest we forget.”
God Save the Queen, the Pistols’ second single, was banned by both the BBC and the Independent Broadcasting Authority, but still reached No 2 in the singles chart, amid accusations that it was kept from No 1 in the Queen’s silver jubilee week.
A new West End production of 42nd Street opens this month and its mix of high glamour and romantic nostalgia may prove a fitting escapist fantasy for our uncertain times. In 1933, the original movie was designed to beguile and distract a suffering US. President Roosevelt’s programmes for rebooting the economy had yet to take effect, and the movie’s audience was desperate for the temporary relief of big-budget effects, big-name stars and the 200 “gorgeous girls” that the trailer promised.
42nd Street proved more popular than the Warner Brothers studio bosses had dared imagine but credit was given less to director Lloyd Bacon than to Busby Berkeley, the actor and self-trained choreographer in charge of its musical numbers. Warner Brothers were taking something of a punt on Berkeley, who had no formal dance training and whose first experience of choreography had been organising marching drills during the first world war. But Berkeley had displayed some talent for working with chorus lines on Broadway, and spent two years with the Samuel Goldwyn studio, choreographing a number of low-budget musicals.
During that period he’d begun playing with new ways to put dance on screen. 42nd Street gave him the budget and freedom to let those ideas fly. When we look at a number such as Young and Healthy today, its structural devices may seem tame but at the time they embodied a bold new attempt to liberate dance from the physical conventions of the stage, and place it in a purely cinematic dimension.
By constructing the choreography around a trio of hydraulically operated platforms, Berkeley transformed the spatial possibilities of his choreography. He could move his dancers between different levels, without the need for complex lifts or partnerwork (0.24); he could create effective shifts in pattern and speed with only minimal physical activity (0.40). Even more radical were the visual possibilities created by his agile camera, which ranged from this tracking closeup of the dancers’ legs (1.23), abstracting them to a V-shaped tunnel of stockinged flesh, to the dizzying overhead shots that turned the chorus line into a kaleidoscope of art deco patterns.
Berkeley’s overhead shot became his signature device (it was significant perhaps that he’d been an aerial observer with the US air corps); and he made even more dramatic use of it during the second half of the movie’s title number, which dramatised the “naughty, gawdy, bawdy, sporty” life of 42nd Street. Berkeley starts out by choreographing vivid vignettes of individual characters: a juggling street vendor, a fighting couple, a drunk, a barber, a cocktail waiter. But as these individuals are re-absorbed into the ensemble, and as the crowd then morphs into a street of dancing buildings, the camera soars higher and higher, until the scene is abstracted into a dreaming cityscape.
The box-office success of 42nd Street propelled Berkeley to the top of his profession. He choreographed six more musicals during the next two years and his ideas grew exponentially – and expensively – more flamboyant. The By a Waterfall number in Footlight Parade (1933) featured giant water tanks in which its chorus could float though a riot of pin-wheeling, molecular patterns. In Gold Diggers of 1933 and Dames, Berkeley elaborated his dance numbers with an ever more inventive panoply of costumes, props and multi-level platforms.
Berkeley helped make the 1930s a golden age for the Hollywood musical and the above compilation of clips illustrates just how brilliantly his imagination was suited to the silver screen. During that decade, Berkeley had a major rival in Fred Astaire, who was working for RKO, and even a basic comparison of the two men’s choreography reveals the limits of Berkeley’s style. Step for step, his vocabulary rarely deviates from a series of rudimentary leg kicks, shuffles and taps and a few simple, decorative movements of the arms. Lacking the musical phrasing, the grace notes, the full-bodied impetus of Astaire’s dancing, Berkeley’s choreography is memorable principally for the spectacle he was able to create out of large numbers of bodies moving in unison.
Berkeley also became increasingly dependent on the interventions of the camera, for tracking closeups, witty angles and bird’s-eye views that added texture and substance to his choreography. Astaire once quipped of his own film performances, “either the camera dances or I do”, and while most of his own on-screen dancing could work just as well on the stage, Berkeley’s numbers would have palled rapidly without their cinematic box of tricks.
If Astaire focused on the pure dancing body, and Berkeley on special effects, the other crucial difference between the two lay in their handling of sex. Back in 1930, a strict code of censorship had been laid out for Hollywood and Astaire’s musicals, although swooningly glamorous, were chastely compliant. Berkeley’s early productions for Warner Bros, however, came with a strong subtext of erotic titillation. In 42nd Street’s Young and Healthy, the lingering pace of the camera as it travels between the women’s legs has the intensity of a voyeur’s gaze. More blatant still is the way the camera hovers over the dancers’ torsos in the By a Waterfall routine from Footlight Parade, revelling in the illusion of naked flesh created by the women’s clinging costumes.
Berkeley offered his female actors and dancers up to the camera with a mathematical exactness that could border on ruthlessness. One of his signature tricks was to zoom, in rapid succession, over the faces of the chorus line, but far from individualising the women it simply confirmed their conformity to type (usually blond and china-doll cute). As a device it was no more humanising than Berkeley’s favoured shots of disembodied legs, busts, feet or arms.
Of course we look at old movies now with politically correct hindsight, but some among his original audience would have been made a little queasy by the sexual innuendo of Pettin’ in the Park, a choreographed guide book to the rules of seduction that featured in Gold Diggers of 1933. Berkeley introduces a small boy (Billy Barty) into his cast – dressed up as a rollerskating baby and leading a chorus of policeman a frantic dance; then chasing a football up the skirt of a beautiful woman, who lies on the grass with her stockings and suspenders in full view; and finally leering suggestively to camera as he lifts up a window blind to reveal a chorus of women in visible states of undress.
Berkeley always claimed there was nothing to read into his dances beyond his own ambition to make each better than the last. He resisted attempts to interpret his mass ensembles as an embodiment of Roosevelt’s New Deal collective spirit; he shrugged off comparisons between his precision-tooled chorus lines and the monumental street parades beloved of Mussolini, Hitler and Stalin. However, one of the most powerful numbers he ever directed – Remember My Forgotten Man – was also the most political, as Berkeley drew on his wartime experiences to choreograph the heroism and suffering of his fellow veterans. In movement terms it could hardly have been more basic – little more than a marching column of men that Berkeley filmed against a succession of ironic backdrops; a cheering, patriotic crowd, a rain-soaked battlefield, a postwar soup kitchen and a dole queue. But towards the end of the sequence (around 5.40) he deployed all his cinematic knowhow to orchestrate an image that potently evoked the despair and the exaltation of the soldiers’ sacrifice: as lines of men tramp wearily across the screen they simultaneously look like victims of a military war machine and figures enshrined in a stained glass window.
Berkeley’s brand of high-gloss musical gradually fell out of fashion and by the end of the 1930s he moved into straight directing. In the early 1970s, a revival of interest in the music, art and fashions of the 1930s restored movies such as 42nd Street to popularity. Berkeley’s influence is still felt in a whole range of choreographic creations. In Disney’s cartoon version of Beauty and the Beast, the Be Our Guest sequence pays a joyously overt homage, with its lines of dancing crockery and ditzy kaleidoscopic formations. The epic ensemble numbers in Riverdance are no less indebted to the choreographer in their machine-drilled, percussive unison. And the pure camp spectacle of synchronised swimming would surely have become a far lesser thing without the inspiration of Berkeley’s aquatically high-kicking chorus girls.
Max More runs Alcor, an American company which, in exchange for $200,000, will store your corpse in liquid nitrogen until the science exists to revive you. Tim Cannon is a computer programmer who implanted a device the size of a pack of cards into his arm, without the aid of anaesthetics. Zoltan Istvan recently ran for US president and publicised his campaign by driving across the country in a huge vehicle modified to look like a coffin.
These are among the unusual individuals Mark O’Connell interviews in his travelogue-style exploration of transhumanism, the movement that campaigns for the direct incorporation of technology into our bodies and minds, and strives to remove ageing as a cause of death. “What are my chances, would you say, of living to a thousand?” the author asks Aubrey de Grey, an established figure in this strange world: “I would say perhaps a little better than fifty-fifty,” is the serious reply. “It’s very much dependent on the level of funding.”
O’Connell is a highly sceptical observer, sometimes horrified and often amused, but offers reminders that this is not a simple tale of eccentrics and the freaky fringe. Some very rich and influential people dabble in aspects of transhumanism, and his series of reports, taken together, provide a commentary on the (at times) sinister and (always) hubristic faith in technology radiating outwards from Silicon Valley. The PayPal cofounder, Facebook investor and Trump backer Peter Thiel, for instance, is well known for pumping millions into “the cause of vastly extending human life spans, in particular his own”. O’Connell quotes Thiel’s belief that computational power will be brought increasingly to bear on the domain of biology, permitting us to “reverse all human ailments in the same way that we can fix the bugs of a computer program … Death will eventually be reduced from a mystery to a solvable problem.”
Google’s head of engineering, Ray Kurzweil, inventor extraordinaire and popper of 150 pills a day (vitamins mostly), has predicted that if he can live to 120, he will live forever – presuming a rapid increase of knowledge about how to restore an ageing body’s molecular and cellular structure. He is also the prophet of the “Technological Singularity”, the moment when AI will usher in, to use O’Connell’s words, a “new human dispensation, a merger of people and machines”. (It is supposed to happen in a dozen years or so.) For Kurzweil, the “Singularity will allow us to transcend” the “limitations of our biological bodies and brains. We will gain power over our fates. Our mortality will be in our own hands.” Google has invested hundreds of millions into anti-ageing research, including its biotech outfit Calico (California Life Company) – which is too secretive to let journalists, including O’Connell, anywhere near.
Conversational and approachable, To Be a Machine is an attempt to understand the transhumanist movement on its own terms
Plenty of other tech billionaires – among them Elon Musk, Steve Wozniak, Dmitry Itskov – are mentioned in To Be a Machine, as the author investigates the mindset of west coast “radical optimism”, as part of which every difficulty, even getting old and dying, has a technical solution. Your body has failed? Not a problem: we’ll upload your mind! Tricky questions surrounding who gets selected or the nature of consciousness are pushed to one side. O’Connell writes of a “narcissistic fantasy of heroism and control – a grandiose delusion, on the part of computer programmers and tech entrepreneurs and other cloistered egomaniacal geeks, that the fate of the species lay in their hands”.
Aside from the billionaire techno-utopians, serious funding for human augmentation comes from the US government, in the form of Darpa: the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, set up in the golden age of the space race. O’Connell attends a cheerful Darpa showcase, in which robots fall about in slapstick fashion failing to overcome obstacles. But, as he realises, behind the agency’s seemingly pure pursuit of technological advance has always lurked “an interest in the methodology of efficient violence”.
To Be a Machine is an attempt, nonetheless, to understand the transhumanist movement on its own terms; it’s a conversational, approachable book, resembling a set of magazine articles skilfully bonded together. Even the more ridiculous of O’Connell’s subjects – such as Roen Horn, founder of the Eternal Life Fan Club, who does his best to avoid calories and is a virgin saving himself for sexbots (a “real girl could cheat on you, sleep around. You could get an STD”) – largely escape his condescension. Istvan, De Grey and the others have all been written up before, but O’Connell, in embarking on a longer quest, is able to draw out similarities in the lives of many of his believers, including libertarian politics and an unsurprising early interest in science fiction novels.
The shared vocabulary is also striking, especially the frequent software metaphors, and the dismissive description of human bodies as mere “meat”, with the brain as “wetware”. “People really suck at decisions,” Cannon argues. “The hardware we do have is really great for, you know, cracking open skulls on the African savannah, but not much use for the world we live in now.” Prominent within O’Connell’s thinking is the idea that transhumanism, in its rejection of the body and embrace of a kind of spirit, has much in common with religions. It is no coincidence that Horn’s parents, with whom he still lives, turn out to be “devout Calvinists who believed in eternal life in paradise for the elect”.
It’s O’Connell’s lack of stridency, as well as his often splendid writing, that makes him such a companionable guide. He brings out the bathos of visiting Alcor, on an industrial estate in Arizona, with its so-called “patient care bay” full of severed heads kept upside down in Perspex containers, and stainless steel corpse-filled cylinders, like gigantic vacuum flasks. When More, showing him around, mentions that the first human to be cryopreserved is housed at the facility, a man born in 1893, and claims that this makes him “the world’s oldest living person”, O’Connell gently suggests that it is “a bit of a stretch to call him living”. The warehouse seems to the author a “mausoleum … of modern delusions”, a dark twist on a very American idea of the endless possibilities of individual betterment.
It turns out that “turn-on, tune-in, drop-out” acid guru Timothy Leary was a long-standing advocate of life extension and a supporter of Alcor, to the point of hosting its annual turkey roast. But, as O’Connell notes, “when the time came to make the necessary arrangements, he went for the more show-stopping option of having his cremated ashes shot into space from a cannon”. It’s still a sore point within the cryonics community – Leary’s decision has been criticised as a capitulation to “deathist” ideology.
O’Connell expresses little desire to go gonzo and insert implants under his skin like the Pittsburgh-based biohacker and recovered alcoholic Cannon. It’s alarming enough for the author to be a fixture in the passenger seat of Istvan’s touring RV, which is prone to overheating and which has failing brakes, not to mention a driver who, despite his determination to outwit death, is surprisingly reckless behind the wheel. As they hurtle down mountain roads in New Mexico, O’Connell faces the unedifying irony of meeting his end strapped inside the “Immortality Bus”.
To Be a Machine implicitly recognises that there is a vast, less extreme territory of bodily enhancement to be navigated – involving smart drugs, wearable technologies and other small steps towards bioengineered “post-humans”. But O’Connell chooses to zero in on the transhumanists’ desperation to escape what one biohacker refers to as “miserable biological lives”. With the help of anecdotes about his very young son, he signals his contrasting belief that our animal, fallible, bodily nature is the essence of being human. And isn’t it the very fact that we are here for so brief a time, he writes, that makes “life so intensely beautiful and terrifying and strange?” The privileged white male gods of Silicon Valley are obsessed with their own mortality, but is “dying of old age not … the ultimate First World Problem?”
One of Thiel’s current health interests is reportedly the process of putting young blood into older mice, which has had “a massive rejuvenating effect”, though there is no evidence that the venture capitalist has ever received “parabiosis” treatments himself. In 1492 the gravely ill Pope Innocent VIII is said to have drunk the blood of three healthy 10-year-old boys whose youth and vigour, it was believed, he could absorb. According to the story, the boys all died, and so did the pope: not even his God could save him.
• To Be a Machine is published by Granta. To order a copy for £11.40 (RRP £12.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846.
As a documentary presenter, Livvy Haydock is no stranger to risk. She has made films about girl gangs and prison smuggling. She has been to war zones and worked with Ross Kemp. But throughout Deadliest Place to Deal (BBC3) she looked profoundly ill at ease, as if the Philippines was the last place she wanted to be.
It is not hard to imagine why. It has been eight months since the foul-mouthed populist Rodrigo Duterte was elected president on a platform of eliminating crime, corruption and drugs. “He promised that all of that would be gone in six months,” a local journalist tells Haydock. “He also promised it would be bloody.”
It has been. Duterte’s war on drugs has killed more than 7,000 people. The vast majority of these have been extrajudicial executions, either by police or – more frequently – by vigilantes acting on police instructions. To call Duterte unrepentant would be to understate things. “Hitler massacred three million Jews,” he said in one speech. “Now there are three million drug addicts. I’d be happy to slaughter them all.” His numbers might be off, but there is no disputing his intent.
Haydock joined Manila’s night-shift press pack, who travel from one bullet-ridden body to the next, reporting on as many as 22 killings a night. A single lonely underpass Haydock visited has seen 10 bodies turn up in the past eight months. “That’s more than one body a month,” said Haydock, who has a habit of resorting to the baldly obvious.
She is, however, nothing if not intrepid. She talks to the families of victims, goes on raids with the police, interviews a vigilante murderer and follows the bodies to the funeral home. She sees people being forcibly drug tested in their homes and at work by door-knocking cops. Anyone who tests positive is placed on the police drugs watch list – the list used to furnish vigilantes with the names of people to be eliminated. Increasingly, political opponents of Duterte – and even human rights workers – find themselves targeted. “It’s really starting to look like a witch-hunt,” said Haydock.
A lot of the camera work was the sort one associates with clandestine filming – shaky, murky, reliant on the hastily framed closeup – but everything was out in the open. The police were happy to be filmed at work. The drug dealer and the vigilante only required a bit of face drapery. What made Haydock’s time in Manila so uncomfortably surreal was the backdrop of Duterte’s extreme popularity: he won the election by a landslide, and currently enjoys approval ratings of around 80%.
Later, Haydock indulged a police spokesman in a bizarrely upbeat interview. Since the crackdown began, he said, “all crimes happening in the streets went down, except for murder”. Here, Haydock’s gift for the obvious served her well. She pointed out that murder was sort of the worst crime. He showed her a pie chart comparing 760,000 “surrenderers” to the 1,795 people killed in police operations. “That’s a big number, though,” she said, pointing to the killing slice.
“Where do we focus?” he said. “On the spot on the clean piece of paper? Or on the entire paper?” He rather did himself in with his own analogy there.
The programme was rounded out with an interview with Duterte’s sister, the family spokesperson. Chillingly, she ate lunch through it, pausing to swallow a forkful before defending the chaos and carnage as “the will of the people”. Now there’s a phrase for the age.
The joy of The House That £100k Built (BBC2) is watching architect Piers Taylor manage both the expectations of budget-conscious self-builders and his own exasperation with their design choices. He smiles as he looks over their plans, but you can tell his eyes are bleeding on the inside.
Kevin and Leslie have got big ideas for a retirement dream house on the Isle of Sheppey, and only £50k to build it with now they have bought the plot of land. Their plan had a curved sloping roof and a staircase to match. Piers’s sidekick Kieran Long said they’d “fallen into the classic self-builder’s trap of giving showy design priority over a great place to live in”. Piers was privately more blunt: “I have to put my cards on the table, and say I just hate the roof.”
Piers tried to convince Kev and Leslie that their roof was a stupid waste of money, but he only managed to talk them out of the staircase. At their next meeting he got rid of their two-storey wall of window. By the end of the show, their dream house was still only foundation-high. Mark my words: that crazy wavy roof has no chance.
‘Everyone comes to Brussels driven by revenge or love or both.” It might be news to those for whom the de facto EU capital is synonymous with vacuum cleaner regulations or food safety standards. But this is drama, not real life. The line is from the blurb for a glossy Dutch TV drama series, Brussels, which reimagines the city as a stage for intrigue and vicious power games.
Here is the self-satisfied EU commissioner, looking after her business interests while navigating political rivals and a past lover. Woven into the plot is a Russian-Ukrainian oligarch, an idealistic teenager dragged out of a mosque and a rough sleeper. The dialogue switches between Dutch, English, French and Russian, while the camera offers sweeping panoramas of the Belgian capital.
The show, a collaboration between the Dutch writer Leon de Winter and the Belgian director Arno Dierickx, is something of a rarity: a drama series set in the EU about the EU. “It is difficult to fall in love with the single market,” the former European commission president Jacques Delors once said. It is no easier to dramatise it. Despite decades of integration, the European project, which turns 60 this weekend, has rarely intruded into popular culture. The EU has a flag and an anthem, but has not fired the imaginations of writers and artists.
Even in shows about politics, Europe is a fleeting theme. In the Danish political drama Borgen, the EU rarely featured. An exception was an episode titled In Brussels, No One Can Hear You Scream, which involved getting rid of an opponent by making them the country’s EU commissioner.
Europe rarely cropped up in Yes Minister. Apart from jokes about Euro perks, the show did produce a memorable summary of Britain’s European policy. “Minister, Britain has had the same foreign policy objective for at least the last 500 years, to create a disunited Europe,” Sir Humphrey explains in an episode that aired in 1980, less than a decade after Britain joined. “We had to break the whole thing up, so we had to get inside … now that we are inside, we can make a complete pig’s breakfast of the whole thing.” There is a grain of truth in the satire: the British joined the common market to shape it in their interests.
But these examples stand out because they are rare. While the Secret Service had James Bond, the EEC and its later incarnations never looked anything but dull. “The EU is seen as something boring and technical, and people forget that there are people behind it who set it up,” says Ingo Espenschied, a journalist and political scientist. Espenschied makes documentaries about politics, on subjects such as West Germany’s first chancellor, Konrad Adenauer, or the history of the European project.
He reckons the EU is ripe for artistic exploitation. “If you look at the scenario [of European integration], it could be written by Hollywood. It has all the ingredients of a good story. France and Germany, who were enemies in history and became partners, the motor of Europe. It has something that has never been known before in history.”
When the EU has emerged in culture, though, it is not a Hollywood tale of triumph over adversity, but something darker. This is especially true in the British imagination, where Brussels is a den of intrigue and skullduggery. The British subgenre of dystopian Brussels flourished from the mid-1980s onwards, becoming more vivid as ferocious debates about the Maastricht treaty rocked the Conservative government.
One example is the 1995 anti-German potboiler by the Thatcherite historian Andrew Roberts, The Aachen Memorandum. The author described the book, set in 2015, as “a dystopian vision of what Britain might turn into if it became a minor satrapy of a vast, protectionist, illiberal, anti-American, politically correct EU”.
Roberts was not alone in mining the fictional seam of the EU as a murky bureaucracy with limitless ambitions. More than a decade later, the House of Cards writer Michael Dobbs imagined an obscure EU counterterrorism unit infiltrated by the Russians, cooking up a vast and murderous criminal plot, in his 2012 novel, A Sentimental Traitor.
A generation earlier, the British EU official and former MEP Stanley Johnson turned to Brussels as the setting for his thriller, The Commissioner. James Morton, a mid-ranking Tory minister out of favour with the prime minister, is packed off to Brussels to become Britain’s EU commissioner, where he stumbles across a giant conspiracy. The commission president is in cahoots with a German chemicals conglomerate that is secretly manufacturing Agent Orange and dumping toxic waste into the Rhine.
Unlike Roberts’s book, this is not a tale of the overbearing Brussels superstate crushing valiant Britain. Morton, the archetypal “decent” and ineffectual Englishman, is joined by “good” commissioners from Portugal, Ireland and Greece in fighting for the truth. One of the main villains is a treacherous British chief of staff planted by the British ambassador in Brussels to watch over the commissioner. Johnson dismisses the idea his book is dystopian. “Fiction is fiction,” he says. “If you are writing a thriller, you jolly well have to be readable.”
Arguably the most memorable British fiction about Brussels was penned by Johnson’s son, Boris, now foreign secretary. In his earlier career as the Daily Telegraph’s Brussels correspondent, Boris Johnson took the euromyths genre to new heights with stories that the EU planned to standardise condom sizes and ban prawn cocktail crisps.
Stanley Johnson, a lifelong supporter of the EU, is now writing a book about Brexit. But anyone looking for a thinly disguised account of the chatter around the family dinner table during the campaign might be disappointed. Kompromat imagines the Russians fixing the Brexit result. Stanley Johnson suggests his son the foreign secretary might have a walk-on role, perhaps as a character called Harry Stokes, “because he stokes up a lot of trouble”.
If the British invented the idea of the EU as the ultimate nightmare bureaucracy, other European countries hit on a different theme – the comedy of being neighbours. One example is the 2003 Franco-Spanish film L’Auberge Espagnole, a breezy tale about students on an EU Erasmus exchange programme sharing a flat in Barcelona. In English, it was almost given the unfortunate title Europudding, but was released as Potluck, to express the idea that each character (or nation) brings something to the party.
The film is a paean to European integration: instead of fighting in the trenches, young Europeans squabble over space in the fridge and share seduction techniques. There is a safe and schmaltzy ending, when the hero Xavier chucks in a job offer at a French bank to become a writer.
Also in this genre is the 2010 French film Nothing to Declare (Rien à Déclarer). In this screwball comedy, two customs officers – one Belgian, the other French – who loathe each other are forced to work together to combat smugglers after immigration controls are lifted in 1993. It is the kind of banana-skin caper where someone loses their trousers and many of the mishaps depend on a spluttering Renault Sedan.
Although one character prays “Lord, kill the eurozone for ever” we know where the film-maker’s heart lies. It is intended as a gentle exposé of prejudice, and its director and star, Dany Boon, took inspiration from crossing the border between northern France and Belgium. He described “a real no man’s land – empty sentry boxes, boarded-up stores, abandoned homes” that he instantly saw was an “eminently cinematic setting”.
But it’s not all slapstick comedy: the neighbours theme has been given a new twist with the multinational drama The Team, a police thriller where officers from Denmark, the Netherlands and Germany join forces to hunt for a killer. “Criminals don’t stop at borders and neither should the police” is the tagline for the show, which could have been written by the real-life EU police agency Europol. A tense and often violent story about human trafficking, tax fraud and organised crime, the drama is a co-production between five European broadcasters. It also received a slice of EU funding.
In its way, the Dutch drama Brussels is trying to corner the same pan-European audience, who are interested in multilingual dramas and flawed characters grappling with moral dilemmas – rather than bent bananas.
Much like the colonists in Mass Effect: Andromeda, the developers at BioWare have thrown everything they have at this new galaxy, and have been rewarded with a promising new world – once they clear up the mess.
With the successful original trilogy, the Mass Effect series gained a reputation as a clunky space epic, with poor combat that the player suffered through to reach the next bit of story. The first Mass Effect, released a decade ago, is a relic, all but unplayable now but at the time fresh and exciting, and ultimately revered for kicking off what became a beloved franchise. Mass Effect: Andromeda has a lot to live up to, a fresh start in a new galaxy but without the benefit of coming out of nowhere as that first game did.
The result seems inevitable. This time around BioWare was motivated less by having a new story to tell than by the need to satisfy thousands of fans of a franchise that began in 2007, and to somehow keep up with how games have changed. The game has been modernised, but the story has suffered.
Compelled to move away from the controversial ending to the original trilogy, BioWare has introduced Initiative (with a capital I): arks, each bearing 20,000 cryo-sleeping colonists from the Council races of the Milky Way (asari, salarian, turian, human), which embarked on their 600-year one-way journey to Andromeda between Mass Effect 2 and 3.
A game requires obstacles to overcome, so Andromeda’s are: a huge and dangerous cloud of mysterious origin called the Scourge which has scattered the arks; the promised “Golden Worlds” are no longer viable for habitation; and – because players need something to shoot – the cluster is overrun with genocidal aliens known as the Kett and robots called the remnant. Your chosen Ryder (default Sara/Scott) quickly suffers the loss of both father (to unbreathable Golden World air) and twin (to a Scourge-induced coma), and in the process becomes the human race’s new Pathfinder, the person whose job it is to find them a home.
Mass Effect: Andromeda is a huge open-world (open solar system, open galaxy even) game with hundreds of interrelated quests that fall into roughly the following categories of ascending order of interest: defeating the big bad alien overlord, finding the other species’ arks, making a few planets viable for habitation, and building relationships with your crew and other characters.
You’ll travel from planet to planet in your ship the Tempest, each time subjected to several seconds of presumably expensive (and thus unskippable) animation, which will bore some players enough to make the notion of scanning these planets for potential research data or resources (required for acquiring blueprints and crafting armour, weapons, and upgrades for your planetside vehicle the Nomad) incredibly unattractive. You can also gain resources from the Nomad, though the process is only slightly more interesting: hear a beep that signifies resources to be mined nearby, bring up a graph, drive the Nomad in circles until the lines go up, and drop a drone.
Gathering research data on foot is similarly little more than a nagging habit that you’ll carry out alongside your main activities, bringing up your personal scanner whenever you come across new objects. Compulsive players may resent the impulse to whip out the scanner in every new location, but it does occasionally reward you with interesting item descriptions. The personal scanner also plays a key role in quests throughout the game, used like alternate-vision modes in other games to make the player feel smarter and more engaged with the world. You might scan a door to locate the interface necessary to open it, scan footprints for information on their owner, or scan a corpse to determine the cause of death.
Your main purpose on the planet’s surface is to make it viable for habitation, which involves a range of activities in ascending order of interest: activating alien technology, clearing out enemies (Kett or otherwise), and dealing with friendlier (though by no means always friendly) locals. Even with combat vastly improved over the previous games – thanks in part to the jump-jet that lets you bounce and hover around, new skills including temporary invisibility, and automatic cover – it can still be hard not to see it as a necessary evil. When you’ve tweaked your loadout with your favourite guns and skills the fights can feel satisfying when part of a interesting quest, but they’re boring at both the bigger and smaller levels. Main quest battles are dull, with most players more likely to drive past the frequent clusters of Kett on a planet’s surface than get out of the Nomad to deal with them.
Far more interesting is dealing with the non-Kett (and non-remnant) inhabitants of the various planets, from the exiles of toxic and crime-ridden Kadara, to the angaran (a new race) resistance toughing it out on frozen Voeld. Some of the most interesting stories and characters and decisions are on these planets, often dealing with the Kett but with more localised concerns than the main quest. And once you’ve increased the viability of the planet to a certain level you can establish outposts, which will give you more of these more local quests.
With so much to do in Andromeda, BioWare has done a great job at regulating pace; contrary to how reviewers have to play, this is a game meant to be experienced at leisure over many weeks. As well as introducing some quests only after you’ve established outposts or found the other arks, a system new to the series often puts the next step for a quest “on hold” until time has passed (measured, it seems, in number of other quests completed).
With so much on offer, it’s highly unlikely any player will enjoy it all. Instead, players will skip over or resign themselves to the parts they don’t like to get to what they do. For many, that will involve ignoring prompts to mine for resources or clear out groups of Kett in favour of getting to know their crew, who represent multiple species and varying levels of likability. As with Mass Effect 2, the loyalty missions (the completion of which unlock further skills for the crew member in question) are some of the best in the game; one has you driving around on an asteroid in low gravity before infiltrating a mine and making decisions about which objects to hack to deal with the criminals running it. But those who had to leave the likes of Garrus and Liara in the Milky Way – relationships formed over the course of three games – may struggle to form the attachments they crave in Andromeda.
One unfortunate obstacle to falling for these new characters is the writing, which is inconsistent to the point of embarrassment. The overarching narrative stuff is clichéd – the big bad alien overlord, your dad’s motivation for creating the AI that sort of lives in your head via a neural implant – and so are many of the characters. Some of the implications of starting life in a new galaxy are disappointingly downplayed: first encounters with new species, the psychological effects of leaving your home 600 years in the past, the opportunity to try different ways of living, and so on.
The new conversation system – in which responses are categorised as emotional, logical, casual, or professional – feels more natural than the paragon/renegade choices of the original trilogy, though some players may miss the gating those choices provided. But the dialogue itself is often cringe-worthy; in an apparent quest to add levity to high-stakes situations it sometimes sounds like it was written by a teenager. At one point, Ryder actually says the word “sigh”.
Some people will also be put off by the animations, which are of lower quality than in games that are known for their animations. And there are plenty of bugs: events that don’t trigger properly and necessitate reloading a previous save, conversations that are cut off when events do trigger (and if you play with subtitles you’ll see overheard speech that for some reason is inaudible), objects that load in at different speeds, and so on.
The scale of Mass Effect: Andromeda means there’s a lot of stuff, and thus a lot of bad or mediocre stuff. But there are still some great character-focused moments, like the loyalty missions and relationships you can pursue (simultaneously) throughout the galaxy. There are still difficult decisions to be made on scales both large and small: do you unfreeze the families of protesters threatening the hydroponics on Andromeda’s new space station the Nexus? Do you let the krogan have powerful remnant tech they’ve found so that they’ll agree to have an outpost on their planet? Do you side with your pilot or your engineer when they disagree over how to treat the Tempest?
Though Andromeda could perhaps never match up to the feeling of a fresh new franchise, this new galaxy has promise. Heavy hints promise a sequel, and hopefully it and any DLC will use this setting to tell some more interesting stories that move away from laying the groundwork and deal with what comes next. Homesickness for the Milky Way is inevitable, and Pathfinder Ryder is no Commander Shepard, but perhaps that’s a good thing. She, her crew, and these new colonies all have room to grow.
PS4/Xbox One/PC; £49.99; Pegi rating 16+
When Lars Eidinger first appeared as a careerist Nazi officer in the BBC’s recent TV show SS-GB, some drama critics snapped their pencils in despair. Here was one of Europe’s finest young actors, already hailed as one of the great Hamlets of the 21st century, cheapening himself as a cartoon Nazi, complete with creaky leather trench coat, shiny boots and skull-and-crossbones cap. And all that for a series with a whiff of Brexit agitprop about it, as the new German rulers of Britain rhapsodise about “citizens of a united Europe” while plotting expansions for Siemens and Bosch.
But by last Sunday’s final episode of this alt-history of the second world war, something had changed. Eidinger’s SS officer, Oskar Huth, who had stormed into post-Battle of Britain London as a snappy workaholic, had quietly transformed into a world-weary existentialist, overcome by the futility of it all yet stoically refusing a blindfold as he faces the firing squad. It was an audacious heist of a performance: even the Daily Telegraph thought the Nazi had stolen the show.
“In the past, I’ve turned down a lot of Nazi-era roles because I think we Germans should approach that era with a lot more responsibility than we do,” says Eidinger, slicing through a schnitzel at the Schleusenkrug cafe in Berlin’s Tiergarten park. “Watching well-fed actors re-enact scenes from a concentration camp repulses me.”
What he found tempting about SS-GB, he says, is that the material was “obviously a fiction”, and the Third Reich setting became above all a vehicle for exploring conflicts between power and resistance. “And of course, it is extremely tempting to play a real villain. In Germany, the Nazis still cramp us up, rightly so, but the Brits have this unbridled fascination with the aesthetics of the Third Reich.” When he turned up on the set in his full leather outfit, he recalls, all the British extras wanted to take pictures with him.
Seductive evil is the 41-year-old’s speciality. His crystal-blue-eyed stare is currently unsettling an even wider audience, thanks to modern ghost movie Personal Shopper, in which Eidinger plays Ingo, a journalist whose brief encounter with Kristen Stewart’s protagonist has a subtle menace that lingers throughout the film.
His portrayal of the ultimate irresistible villain, Shakespeare’s Richard III, left audiences charmed and outraged in equal measure when he visited the Barbican last month in a Thomas Ostermeier production originally devised for Berlin’s Schaubühne theatre, where he has been part of the ensemble since 2000. In Germany, most people know him as a postman-turned-murderer in the popular Sunday evening crime series Tatort. Two years ago, in the film Dora or The Sexual Neuroses of our Parents, he played a man who has a sexual relationship with a mentally disabled woman.
It comes as no surprise to hear his dream role would be the baddie in a James Bond film, though he thinks he’s jinxed his chances by announcing it. “One of the great advantages of my job is that you can’t really plan your career. I wrote a letter to Lars von Trier telling him how much I wanted to work with him and he never even wrote back. And then other directors you admire suddenly get in touch, out of the blue. When I started out, my wife told me to piss into my little corner until it starts to stink. And she was right.”
The secret behind the stellar trajectory of Eidinger’s career may have a lot to do with the fact that he hasn’t just taken his wife’s advice metaphorically. For productions at the Schaubühne, he has urinated into a sink on stage, pushed sausages up his behind and, in Ostermeier’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream, ventriloquised Puck’s monologue through his penis.
He frequently improvises and veers off script. When his Hamlet reached London in 2011, Eidinger’s Dane wandered into the auditorium and ripped up a critic’s notepad. Meanwhile, his Richard III threw chocolate mousse into the Duke of Buckingham’s face and tried to enlist the audience in a chant of “You look like shit today, have you not eaten any pussy?” until spectators either left or shouted at him. “It’s like a form of Tourette’s: if I can see that someone has a problem, I have to confront it.”
In terms of what I have the courage to do, there's no one else out there
After one show in the same run, a fellow cast member told him he would break his arm if he ever spat in his face again. “That sort of thing annoys me,” the Berlin-born actor says. “I don’t get it. Break my arm then, but at least do it on the stage.” The next day, he spat in his colleague’s face again.
“My great quality is that I have found a way of acting which makes you aware of the risk involved,” he says. “Here is an actor who is willing to risk the whole thing blowing up in his face, because he’s improvising without knowing where it will end. In terms of what I have the courage to do, there’s not really anyone else out there. Productions I am not involved in lack that same radicalism.”
Along with Sandra Hüller (Toni Erdmann) and Nina Hoss (Barbara), he is a graduate of the Ernst Busch Academy of the Dramatic Arts. Located in former East Berlin, it used to have a reputation for churning out technically flawless but slightly soulless performers. But in Eidinger, technical ability has become wedded to an almost mystical belief in radical self-expression.
“People think acting is all about dazzling the audience and disguising yourself: lying, basically. In fact, the opposite is true. I try to be as present as possible when I’m acting. I don’t try to use the role as a mask I hide behind, but as a vehicle for expressing myself.”
Eidinger’s SS officer Huth starts out as a man of the shadows – popping up unexpectedly at every turn, breathing at the end of every phone line – but by the end of SS-GB he looks as if he has grown tired of the eternal game of bluff and double bluff. It’s a perfect fit an actor who, for all his boyish charm, seems allergic to false modesty. Does he never worry that he will be found out one day, or that he’ll run out of steam? “Luckily I don’t feel that way. With me, it’s more a kind of arrogance or hubris that I worry that people only get to see a tiny fragment of my talent. One day, I always think, I’ll get the role that allows me to show what I am capable of – and then I’ll win an Oscar.”
One wonders how that attitude went down with self-effacing British actors he had to share a set with. Eidinger says he had always been a fan of his UK counterpart in the film, Sam Riley, and he studied Benedict Cumberbatch’s Sherlock in preparation for his own lines. Ironically, given the complaints about BBC actors mumbling, what fascinates him about British actors is how fast they talk, “how little effort there is behind it”.
But Eidinger wouldn’t be Eidinger if he could leave it there. A lot of British actors, he says, are content copying something they have seen on a stage or in a film before: “I end up feeling that what I have just seen wasn’t really an actor’s personality, but an actor working his way through the history of British drama and the interpretative history of the respective play. I rarely feel: that’s a real person there, and he is opening himself and making himself vulnerable. Due to their virtuosity, they come across as very much trapped in a form that makes them unassailable.”
Eidinger’s best performance in film to date remains his turn in Toni Erdmann director Maren Ade’s second feature, Everyone Else, a romantic drama about a young couple holidaying on Sardinia. His character Chris is a far cry from officer Huth or King Richard: an introspective architect with a receding hairline and a soft belly, paralysed by doubts about his career and his relationship.
It suggests that the secret behind all those villains is not just their hard edges, but their deep insecurities. While Eidinger has little doubt in his talent as an actor, he remains unsure whether it actually means that much. “I like being an artist, but I also know how vain that is, because I am not going to make much of a difference.”
Lunch over, he puts down his knife and fork. “Even great artists and geniuses like Shakespeare or Brecht weren’t able to make a difference politically, in spite of the fact that they predicted everything. We watch and reflect and yet nothing changes. How sobering and frustrating is that?”
There is much to ponder in that icy interview Theresa May gave for the latest edition of US Vogue. Its author, Gaby Wood, revealed: “She says she doesn’t read much history and tries not to picture how things will be in advance.” Not read “much” history? Is that the same as not going to the gym much or not doing much volunteering?
We sympathise. Working lives are busy. Perhaps May does in fact take the odd volume of Thucydides or Christopher Clark or Antonia Fraser off the shelf, flick through it negligently and then put it back, before cracking on with the job of triggering article 50. And if an interviewer were to inquire what historians May reads on this partial basis, she surely wouldn’t be hubristic enough to reply, like Sarah Palin on being asked to name the newspapers she read: “All of ’em!”
Nowadays, history on TV or in schools is said to be dominated by Tudors’n’Nazis. Henry’s break with Rome or the trials of 1940 might be inspirational topics in Downing Street, but the prime minister doesn’t read “much” about them, and moreover tries not to picture how things will be in advance. Not encouraging.
Margaret Thatcher once convened a panel of historians including Timothy Garton Ash, Norman Stone, Fritz Stern and Hugh Trevor-Roper to advise her on German unification. May needs to assemble some historians of her own to discuss European de-unification.

My inner arty teenager is enraged that insufferable sports-playing types at schools now have their incredibly tiresome matches broadcast. Rugby’s Rosslyn Park National Schools Sevens is being live-streamed, and football and hockey events are increasingly shown on the web. Thousands of parents, rather than shiver on the touchline, now stay in bed and claim to their offspring that they really were watching – honest.
The Fotherington-Thomas in me resents this promotion of sportiness in schools. I was the one in class who carried Camus’ L’Etranger in a blazer pocket, and ostentatiously displayed the Buzzcocks album Another Music in a Different Kitchen in the record shop’s special souvenir carrier bag.
If there had been a move to televise school sports in my day, I would have indignantly demanded equal time: cameras to broadcast my respectably attended lunchtime production of Beckett’s Endgame, and the poetry reading interspersed with thoughtful solo pieces on classical guitar.

Waitrose is getting tough with the overcaffeinated freeloaders and latte-slurping scroungers blocking the aisles of all their shops.
Until recently, possession of a MyWaitrose loyalty card entitled you to a free coffee, no questions asked. At any moment, I was expecting Waitrose to throw in a free Proms programme as well. But as of next month you will actually have to prove you’ve bought something before you get your coffee.
But why is Waitrose promoting the coffee fetish anyway, which seems to have arisen as drinking beer in pubs has fallen? For me, the most baffling thing is Thermos-style mugs for drinking coffee while you’re on the bus, on the streets, or walking around any of the other shops that aren’t offering free coffee.
At the Berlin film festival this year we were actually offered a free travel coffee mug each, which we could refill from a free unlimited coffee tap. I didn’t want one. However if, instead of coffee, Waitrose or the Berlin film festival were to offer a free plump muffin, or sugar-glazed danish, or one of those huge medallion-sized foil-wrapped chocolates, I could be tempted.
There is little consolation available for the victims of Syria’s civil war. However, this film ponders the foundation of possible eventual retribution against the regime of President Assad: the work of war crimes investigator Bill Wiley, who is assembling documents and testimonies that could put Assad in the dock. It’s iIllustrated with archive footage and interviews with survivors of Assad’s prisons, much of which is inevitably gruelling. Andrew Mueller
After hobbyist potter Johnny Vegas lightened up last week’s toilet-themed Throw Down, things get fraught in tonight’s final firing. The last three contenders are tasked with turning out some super bowls to assemble a beautiful porcelain light feature. But will all those fragile pieces survive the lengthy process? Thankfully, the anxious atmosphere is at least partially relieved by an unexpectedly sexy Spot Test. Graeme Virtue
Hosted by Kevin McCloud, this short series profiles candidates for the prestigious RICS award. Tonight’s episode focuses on Georgian restorations and, as Kevin smirks: “They’re a good-looking bunch”. From the belt-and-braces job at Sacrewell Mill to the decorative plasterwork crafted for a derelict holiday home at Lyme Regis, the judging parameters are elastic. It’s a far simpler job to watch and enjoy. John Robinson
Enoch Foster is a Utah mailman. He is also a fundamentalist Mormon who lives in a secluded community in the side of a blasted rock and has two wives and 16 children, with a 17th on the way. Now he is contemplating taking a third wife. He and his community have agreed to be filmed for a year as we see how surprisingly well this marital arrangement pans out, though, as one partner admits, “there are days when it really hurts”. David Stubbs
Typically, Channel 5 is swift out of the traps with this investigation into the events leading up to the death of the late, lamented pop great George Michael. With the recent postmortem returning a verdict of death from natural causes, the challenge for this documentary is to fill its allotted hour in a way that’s tasteful, unsensational and appropriately respectful. Maybe a celebration of Michael’s life would have been a better use of the airtime? Phil Harrison
Noisey’s season finale visits chaotic, teeming Lagos to profile Nigeria’s Afropop industry and see how it’s changed since Fela Kuti’s day. Interviews with new stars such as Ice Prince and Burna Boy reveal shifts in ethos and aspiration, as well as sound – many artists are more likely to name-check luxury cars than rail against injustice. High-flying Drake collaborator Wizkid fails to show, but this is an illuminating, street-level view of what’s now a multi billion-dollar business. Sharon O’Connell
This series set in a once-peaceful Norwegian community has already seen headless bodies, a rampaging polar bear, a severed tongue dangled tauntingly at a funeral and the killing off of Sofie Gråbøl’s character. Tonight, crucifixion and self-mutilation are added to the series’ bewildering litany of violence. Dan faces his grimmest ordeal to date at the hands of Vladek, Freya is gravely ill, while Michael and Ingrid continue their desperate pursuit of justice. David Stubbs
The Body Snatcher (Robert Wise, 1945) Thursday, 1am, Movies4Men
“Graves raided! Coffins robbed! Corpses carved!” Yes, it’s a typical ghoul-fest from maverick producer Val Lewton, who, with director Robert Wise, has a high old time with a Burke-and-Hare tale set in 19th-century Edinburgh. Based on a Robert Louis Stevenson short story, it has Henry Daniell as a goodish doctor, reduced to employing saturnine Boris Karloff to provide fresh cadavers – some from the grave, others very much alive until Boris arrives – in a creepy, shadowy city. Bela Lugosi, as the doctor’s assistant, is implicated, too. Paul Howlett
Girlhood (Céline Sciamma, 2014) 11.05pm, Film4
Marieme (Karidja Touré) is a teenager of the banlieue, going nowhere in the downtrodden housing projects of Paris. When her school shamefully rejects her, she embraces gang life, joining three similarly disadvantaged black girls in tough but sometimes joyful scrapes involving shoplifting, drug dealing and vicious fights, in which she earns a new identity – “Vic, for victory”. A vibrantly physical and poignant coming-of-age tale. PH
Women’s Champions League Football VfL Wolfsburg v Lyon. The quarter-final first leg. 7pm, Eurosport 1.
Premier League Darts Round eight includes Michael van Gerwen v James Wade. 7pm, Sky Sports 1.
Super League Rugby Wakefield Trinity v Leigh Centurions. Coverage from the clash at the romantically named Rapid Solicitors Stadium. 7pm, Sky Sports 2.
In a year that had already taken two my greatest heroes and influences (Bowie and Prince), the news of George Michael’s death arrived with shock and disappointment that moved swiftly to “of course this happened”. It was, after all, the year of the celebrity grim reaper.
When I heard he had died, I thought of the very brief time I spent with George Michael a few years earlier, at a gala at Elton John’s house. It was the White Tie and Tiaras Ball fundraiser for Elton’s AIDS charity, and I spent the night dressed to the nines, cavorting with Adam Lambert and Beth Ditto.
Wanting to tell George Michael how much he meant to me, I instead chose to remain collected and “peer-like”. I wanted him to know that he had made a difference, and that he was loved. I didn’t know that would be my only chance.
He had a certain type of sadness about him at the fundraiser; a sort of depressive cloud above his head. We were at a fun and spirited affair and yet he seemed somber, quiet, removed. His sadness, I speculated to myself, may have been residue of how the media had treated him over the past decade and a half. The “lewd-act” scandal, and the consequent “outing”, the rumours of intoxication and drug abuse; the stories of his sexual exploits – they had all overshadowed his work as an incredible songwriter and performer.
George Michael was an earnest and sharp-witted pop auteur, who deserves much greater posthumous fanfare than he has received. He was a bold, intelligent and provocative gay man – but in the aftermath of his death, much of the coverage sanitised his life, playing down his queerness in a way that was not only disrespectful to his legacy, but harmful to the community at large.
With so few – alarmingly few – queer musicians in the pop landscape, we looked to George Michael for inspiration and acknowledgment. He should be upheld as a great storyteller whose beautiful voice expressed it all – pain, joy, humor, love.
There are many great artists who have a lane that they shine in and they stay in it (and rightfully so). But Michael could glide between a sexy dancefloor filler and an emotional anthem without over-reaching. He made me feel like I could do the same. He showed me that pop songs could be both incredibly personal and widely relatable, and that they could have depth. He was extremely hands-on in the studio, taking on the producer role on many of his records. He was exactly the kind of artist I wanted to grow into.
I had always hoped he would return with one more great body of work, full of earnest prose and social commentary. But then he was gone. What should have been a grand celebration of his illustrious career seemed to fizzle out very quickly. A couple of weekly tabloid covers, a few spins of Careless Whisper and Faith on throwback radio, and a couple of very mild and joyless award show tributes – Adele at the Grammy’s; Chris Martin at the Brit Awards. Both are world-class entertainers capable of wowing audiences, but their somber “easy-listening” performances did little justice to the depth, celebration of life and sexual bravado of George Michael’s music. What a wasted opportunity, I thought. In a time of rising global fascism and xenophobia, wouldn’t a song like Freedom! ’90 have been perfect?
And where were the gay artists at these tribute nights? Why weren’t they on the world stage, celebrating one of their own? Where was Elton John, Sam Smith or even Adam Lambert? And why are there less than a handful of gay artists with a wide enough reach to even possibly fill the position?
I was frustrated and saddened to watch his sexuality swept aside, and his work made bland and safe.
Following the bathroom scandal in 1998, the news media treated Michael as though he should grovel in shame. He responded with the single Outside, an ode to gay sex, with an accompanying video that featured disco-dancing policemen and revolving disco-ball urinals. He put his proverbial middle finger in the air and effectively proclaimed: “You will not degrade me, castrate me or shame me for living as a sexual being.”
Still to this day in mainstream culture, gay men are often cast as the silly, clownish best-friend type – people seem to be more comfortable with that. The moment a gay man is perceived as being strong, sexual, unapologetic or dominant, the norm is threatened. Traditionally, the same applies to women.
But Michael ignored that confine much the same way Freddie Mercury did. In 1996, still yet to publicly comment on his sexuality, Michael released the stellar Older album – his first since 1990’s Listen Without Prejudice. The album was laced with lyrics about his lover, Anselmo Feleppa, who had died from an Aids-related brain haemorrhage. In Jesus to a Child, Michael sings: “I’m blessed, I know / Heaven sent, And Heaven stole / You smiled at me / Like Jesus to a child.”
The song peaked at #1 in the UK and Australia without anyone really knowing it was a song of gay love lost. The notion that his lover represented the warmth and acceptance of Jesus to him is so incredibly moving to me – and undoubtedly controversial to others.
In what was to be his final UK #1, Fastlove, he wrote about the need for untethered gratification as he mourned the loss of his love. “In the absence of security / Made my way into the night / Stupid cupid keeps on calling me / But I see nothing in his eyes / I miss my baby”. This song is so deeply entwined with the gay experience that to have it represented at the Grammy’s by Adele was an injustice.
I adore Adele, have spent time with her, done shows with her, had her over to my house. I absolutely believe that she did this with the best of intentions, and out of her admiration for George Michael. But you can flip through the radio stations or sit and watch MTV for hours without hearing a single gay voice. We needed and deserved this opportunity to be acknowledged as a community, and to honour our own.
George put his life’s stories into pop music; his stories are our stories. We have a responsibility to spread those stories, to make sure they are not forgotten or rewritten, and we have to fight for a more prominent seat at the table. We need our allies to allow us to use our own voices to do so; we need to create space for other George Michaels to exist, and write songs that matter.
When I think of an artists’ colony, my mind wanders to that very average 1994 Hugh Grant film, Sirens, which depicted the life of the painter Norman Lindsay (played by Sam Neill) and the bohemian characters (Kate Fischer, Portia de Rossi, Elle Macpherson) who surrounded him in his country idyll in the Blue Mountains.
It was all art, nude bathing in bubbling brooks and talk of culture and nature and morals – an exaggerated version of how artists might actually live.
I am in an artists’ colony at the moment, four hours down the road in Bundanon, and I can tell you it is nothing like that. This colony is more like a country within a country – a republic of creation. On the south coast of New South Wales, gifted to the state by the painter Arthur Boyd (I’m writing this actual sentence while sitting on Boyd’s nice floral couch), there’s nothing to do, nowhere to go – you are just expected to work on your art, or think about it, or read. We are discouraged from swimming – the Shoalhaven river that runs along the border of the property is wide, fast-flowing and brackish – and I don’t fancy drowning before I finish my book.
My fellow artists in the colony are an Indigenous hip-hop collective, a couple of visual artists (one of whom does almost brutalist architectural-style drawings), a couple of writers, a musician and a dancer. Nor do we don’t hang out talking for hours. We’re here to work.
During the week when I went to visit one of the musicians (I needed to use his shower, my hot water was broken), his voice was croaky from lack of use and he’d had only a few hours sleep the night before. He’d had a creative breakthrough of sorts and had stayed up most of the night composing. He talked at a pace, then apologised for rambling; he hadn’t seen anyone in days.
Most people stick to themselves but on Saturday night, one of the writers invited everyone to her cottage and we had a roast beef dinner, saw and trapped a funnel web spider and stepped over wombats on the walk home. The next morning the dancer led a movement class, which we did while the musician played the music he’d composed this week. It was like a summer camp for creative grownups. Then we all went our separate ways, to our studios overlooking fields of kangaroos.
Even a successful author in Australia doesn’t earn enough to live on, owing to the demographics of the country
Artists’ colonies emerged in the late 19th and 20th century in European villages that welcomed a mix of a floating and permanent population of artists. The first world war ended a lot of them but their spirit can still be found in places such as Bundanon – intermingling different types of creative people in a rural setting, free from distractions.
In these philistine years, when artists are treated with contempt by the government and are being starved out of creation, the fact that such a place exists feels like a miracle.
Artists in this country are used to the spoils of their craft being meted out in a spiritual, not material, currency. The low four-figure advances for many Australian novelists are essentially a token amount – the real prize is the permission from the cultural mandarins to create and distribute the work. There are other consolation prizes – invitations to writers’ festivals, where you might be put up in a nice hotel, or being taken out for dinner by your publisher – but few go into the arts to get rich. Authors in Australia can expect to earn, on average, $12,900 a year and cuts to arts funding under this government have hit artists.
The novelist Frank Moorhouse explores the knotty question of writers and money in an excellent essay in this month’s Meanjin. Could, he wonders, a fund be set up to support senior writers on renewable “long term (say 10-year) national contracts”. This would get around the fact that even a successful author in Australia doesn’t earn enough to live on owing to the demographics of the country (small population, therefore small sales). Ibsen, points out Moorhouse, received a lifetime pension from the Norwegian government when he was 38; it enabled some of the finest plays of the 19th century to be written.
But artists’ colonies do fill a bit of the gap. Where else could you do writing workshops then play tennis in the hot Florida sun with the novelist Geoff Dyer, as my friend the writer Virginia Lloyd did. Or find yourself in one Australian retreat playing “naked chat roulette” with erotic fiction writers – as another writer friend did – who is still alarmed by the experience (which, come to think of it, sounds not a million miles from Sirens). Or have, as a poet friend of mine put it, Terrible Affairs I Should Not Have Had: The Residency Years.
Where else could you have the time and space to do the work?
These places of creation are a great solace to impoverished and isolated artists. It gives them a community, and space and time to create. It also takes them seriously. After all, isn’t most art a confidence trick? It is no accident that two of the most magical arts residencies in Australia – Bundanon and Varuna in the Blue Mountains – were bequeathed by artists themselves (the family of the writer Eleanor Dark bequeathed Varuna). They know what it’s like to create something when the barriers are against them.
我的家乡温岭是一个地处亚热带的南方乡镇。这些年，伴随着我的成长，家乡也经历了翻天覆地的变化。我从那个流着鼻涕、瘦小孤独的女孩长成了一心想要逃离家乡的少女。而我的家乡也从一个农业县发展成了有着140万人口的繁华城市。
如今的温岭是浙江省典型的中型城市。与中国过去三十年成百上千个县级市一样，温岭随处可见崭新而粗制滥造的高楼大厦。农民扛着装满蔬菜的麻袋、步履蹒跚地走在新铺就的大道上，他们脸上的沧桑与高楼大厦形成了鲜明的对比。
二十世纪九十年代之前，温岭还只是一个农业县，除了茶园和竹林之外什么都没有。在去北京之前，我在这里度过了7岁到19岁的时光。我小时候，人们通常会在午间小睡片刻，而我却特别害怕在白天睡觉。但如今，别说午睡了，人们甚至晚上都在忙着工作。
那时候的温岭地处偏远。现如今，从上海坐高铁只需几个小时就能到这里。七八十年代的时候还没有穿山隧道，九十年代才通了高速公路。过去，我们从不出远门，在县里我们去哪都靠步行。
我家住在竹山脚下。小学时，我会走着去位于虎山脚下的学校上学。那时候，我总是迟到。因为一路上，目之所及皆是一望无际明黄色的油菜花田，如画的景色让我双脚驻足陷在泥里而不自觉，水牛也静静地泡在水中。
我在草地上把脚上湿漉漉的泥蹭掉，然后拐上一条土路。路上经过一间塑料制品厂，厂子前的小溪经常会被塑料染色剂染成各种颜色，时而紫、时而红、时而蓝。那时候，我完全不知道这些染料是有毒的。五颜六色的溪水在我看来是那么的神奇，我甚至会把手浸在水里。我还记得会从工厂的院子里捡一些塑料绳子缠成一束带去学校。在枯燥的数学课上，我会用这些透明的塑料绳编成虾、手环、钱包等小物件。课间，女孩们还会互相比较谁编的好。我们的手被塑料绳染得红一块、蓝一块。但是，那时候我们对癌症、污染毫无概念。直到上世纪九十年代，这些字眼才逐渐进入了我们的视野。
中午，学生既可以回家，也可以在学校的食堂吃饭。我有时会抓上几个肉包子跑到教室后面的虎山上。我通常都是独自前往，只有胆大的孩子才敢从阴暗的北侧上山，那边经常有老鼠和蛇出没。正是因为如此，即便是日头高照的日子里，我也会穿着塑料雨鞋上山。我坐在山上，一边啃着手里的包子，一边俯视着山脚下的学校。有时，我也会到隐藏在半山腰悬崖下的一座庙里去探险。我的祖母生前是非常虔诚的佛教徒，因此去任何佛教寺庙对我而言都是对她的一种怀念 （尽管我当时还只是个孩子）。看着庙中那些跪在佛前念念有词的僧人，或者盯着随风摇曳的烛火，我的思绪也随之飘向远方，直到下午的上课铃把我拉回现实。
如今，所有能够唤起我对家乡记忆的只剩下几张黑白照片，城市的发展几乎抹去了我熟知的一切。上世纪九十年代，我离开温岭去北京求学。七年后，我成为了一名电影学讲师。而当我最终踏上归途，眼前的一切却让我茫然。
我至今记得，我站在路中间的交通岛上，身前身后是宽阔的四车道马路，红绿灯闪烁。而在我整个青春岁月的记忆中，温岭甚至连一个红绿灯都没有。我看到老人和农民在交通标志前仍旧不知所措，就像他们手中牵着的驴子。公交车取代了摩的，县政府如今也搬到了恢弘的市委大楼。曾经绚烂的油菜田变成了大型的建筑工地。只有虎山仍静静地立在那里，在雾霾中骄傲的仰起头。当天空清澈晴朗的时候，我可以看见山顶上新建的信号塔，僧人们全都用上了手机。
2000年，我母亲工作的丝绸厂倒闭了。小时候，我曾穿梭在一排排的织布机间寻找我母亲的身影，有时候还能吃上几串烤蚕蛹，但车间里令人窒息的空气却让我口干舌燥。如今，这些都成了过去的记忆。我母亲被调到了温岭市人民文化宫，负责组织工人的戏剧活动。其他女工去了哪里？我母亲回答说，要么去了制造业私企，要么失业了。
二十一世纪初的那几年，我虽然住在英国，但几乎每年都回家过春节。让我印象最深的是家乡语言的变化。如今的温岭方言里夹杂着宁波、温州等周边地区的方言。来自其他省份的外地人会跟我们讲普通话，让我们这些过去几乎不说普通话的当地人感觉非常奇怪。
我父母似乎非常适应周遭的变化。就在这时，癌症悄然而至。先是我父亲住进了医院的癌症病房，最后在那里离世。然后是我母亲。癌症成为了温岭死亡病例的主因。如今，当我忆起病故的父母，我仿佛看到童年时塑料厂后面的小溪里，癌症幽灵在那里作孽起舞。我一定曾与癌症幽灵日日相伴，他藏身于绚烂的油菜花田里，隐匿于学校旁那几条满是小虾的小溪中。我也一定曾在虎山上的寺庙里，在诵经的僧侣沉沉的气息间，与潜伏在缭绕香火中的他擦身而过。
然而瑕不掩瑜，城市化给我们的社会带来了无法估量的益处。中国人的务实精神是根深蒂固的，我总是能感受到家乡发展所带来的希望。大部分人的希冀也没有落空。但一想到我们所失去的原生景观，所失去的诗词歌赋中描绘的中华文化根植的土壤，我依然会感到忧伤。这样的失去所产生的影响是深远而巨大的。
Mass Effect: Andromeda is the first new Mass Effect game in five years and the first on the current generation of consoles. Set in the same universe as the original trilogy but in a different galaxy and 600 years later, Andromeda tells a new story with new characters in a new setting. This was BioWare’s opportunity to change the formula, no doubt with substantial anxiety over how fans would react. Here are some of the key ways Andromeda has changed the Mass Effect universe, based on the first few hours of the game.
Mild spoilers for the opening two missions lie ahead.
The original trilogy was set not too long after humans discovered the alien tech that allows them to travel across the galaxy at speed. Each game took the player to different planets, but they were all still within the Milky Way.
As the name suggests, Andromeda is different. As one of the Ryder twins (default Sara/Scott), you begin the game by waking up in the Andromeda galaxy after 600 years in cryo-sleep. You and the other colonists – 20,000 from each of the four Citadel Council races (asari, salarian, turian, human) – are looking for a new home among several potential “Golden Worlds”.
Naturally, everything has gone wrong. And so, rather than getting to just pick a planet and settle down, you have to fill in the role of “Pathfinder”, travelling from planet to planet looking for one that won’t kill you. It probably won’t be the one characterised by dangerous lightning and No Man’s Sky-esque floating mountains.
Of course, the threats in this new galaxy aren’t merely geographical. On the very first planet you immediately stumble across an unfamiliar alien race that someone later dubs the “Kett”. By this point you’ve already heard a few times about the “first contact” protocol, which states that you mustn’t harm any alien life unless it attacks first, but – of course – the Kett quickly reveal themselves to be targets you can shoot on sight without the need for guilt. So far they don’t seem at all interested in learning to talk to the humans. And they bleed green.
When faced with an alien who will talk (in the first few hours at least, this is only the ones you brought with you from the Milky Way), your conversation options have expanded beyond paragon (good) and renegade (bad). Now you can choose answers that reflect a variety of tones: emotional, logical, casual and professional. It’s all very Myers-Briggs, and will apparently have effects on later events in the game.
Some people have reported being put off by the relatively low quality facial animations. To what extent the fact that the characters here are less convincing than the likes of Uncharted 4’s Nathan Drake impacts your enjoyment will come down to personal preferences. As long as the characters actually have faces (I’m looking at you, Batman: A Telltale Series, I’m happy. And Fryda Wolff (Sara Ryder) is doing a great job with the voice-acting so far.
"there are some gaps in that memory" Alfred told Bruce Wayne pic.twitter.com/scysRsMizJ
Without revealing too much of the plot, your chosen Ryder has a neural implant that connects her (or him) to an artificial intelligence called Sam (Simulated Adaptive Matrix). He helps you out, suggesting next actions and enhancing your abilities, but his control over Ryder’s body and mind is undeniably unsettling, especially when you learn that he has Ryder senior’s memories in his storage. What if you try to romance someone that dad wouldn’t approve of, and Sam takes it upon himself to somehow prevent the union? If this creepy AI-human bond isn’t explored further later in the game, I’ll be very surprised.
Rather than commit yourself to one class, Andromeda lets you choose skills from combat, biotics, or tech as you see fit. It’s actually kind of overwhelming compared to the previous games, but given that combat has improved enough to make it more than just something you suffer through to get to the next bit of story, you might want to spend some time deciding what’s right for you. My early favourite is the tactical cloak, a tech ability that lets Ryder turn invisible for a while and provides a damage bonus to whatever attack you use while cloaked.
One big thing that makes the combat more enjoyable, aside from the automatic cover, is the jump-jet. In the first two missions you are encouraged to use it often: to jump up to otherwise unreachable ledges, to fling yourself across chasms, and in one case to go searching for glyphs so that Sam can feed them into his astonishingly effective translator. That the planets you visit always have a few ledges just high enough for your jump-jet to reach will probably get old, but it’s better than being forced to take a long and winding path because you can’t jump at all.
The Mako was a divisive vehicle, and BioWare is brave to try again. In Andromeda you have the Nomad, a sturdy space car that comes with two modes: fast mode and a mode that allows it to drive up hills. Unless there are more interesting uses for this further into the game, probably just expect lots of planets with one or two hills that are just steep enough to force you to switch modes for a few seconds.
It’s definitely advantageous to have an alternative to walking when it comes to traversing these new planets, especially given the hazard resistance the Nomad provides, but something is missing. Maybe it’s the charming, awkward, tumbling lightness the Mako had. Or maybe it’s just the guns.
For every mode of transport (so far), there’s a mode of scanning the environment for some kind of resources.
On foot, you have a scanner (on console, press down on the D-pad) that provides information about individual objects both animate and inanimate. The more interesting uses include scanning the first Kett you kill to prompt a conversation about this unfamiliar species, and scanning those glyphs Sam sends you after. A less interesting application is whipping it out in every new location in case any of the objects around you have “research data” to offer. This data, which comes in three flavours – Milky Way (stuff you’ve brought with you), Heleus (stuff you find in Andromeda), and Remnant (mysterious technology that will presumably be explained further into the game) – is used to unlock blueprints for crafting armour, weapons, and improvements for the Nomad.
In the Nomad itself, you use your mining computer to scan for resources like aluminium and iron, which in turn are used to craft from those blueprints. You find an area determined ripe for mining, and then drive around in circles while an overlay shows graphs representing the density of resources. When you’ve hit the peak, you release a mining drone. So far, so dull.
It’s even worse at the galaxy level, where you can scan entire solar systems looking for pockets of resources. If the very idea of what amounts to clicking on things until you find the one that makes your numbers go up wasn’t tedious enough, every time you travel between planets (and other system-level locations: space stations, asteroids, etc.) you have to watch several seconds of flight animation. The view will slowly zoom in on your current location and rotate to face your destination before carrying you through asteroid fields or light shows that presumably represent faster-than-light travel. It’s pretty, and thus presumably was expensive to develop, perhaps too expensive for BioWare to consider throwing out even if playtesters did find it as boring as those writing previews have.
Scanning for resources does fit with the narrative; it feels like the kind of thing that a group of colonists new to a galaxy would have to do. But it also feels like it ought to be the responsibility of someone other than the Pathfinder.
All the extra stuff BioWare has added to this game compared to the original trilogy makes Andromeda feel like it fills a similar role to the original Mass Effect. If this too is the first in a trilogy, then we can expect its sequels to improve on what players like and adapt or remove those features – like the scanning – that go down poorly. At this point it’s too early to tell whether what’s core to a Mass Effect experience – the story, the characters and maybe the locations – will live up to expectations. But there’s a careful balance to be struck: if players are too put off by some of these less fundamental features, they may never get far enough into the game to find out.
Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson currently has 26 movies in development. That is a staggering amount of work, possibly equalled only by crippling-debt-era Nicolas Cage. On paper, it looks like a tremendous amount of resources will go into developing all of these scripts. In reality, though, that’s unlikely to be the case, because Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson only really makes three types of film: the ironic action comedy, the kids movie and the disaster epic. In fact, you can probably guess what happens in all of those forthcoming films just by looking at their names. With this in mind, let’s go through his project list on IMDb and take a guess at the plots from the titles alone, starting with the most recent.
Baywatch Well, this is easy. Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson stars in an ironic action-comedy remake of a beloved piece of entertainment, in this case a TV series.
Jumanji Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson stars in an ironic action-comedy remake of a beloved piece of entertainment, in this case a kids’ film.
Fighting With My Family Now, this is either going to be a knockabout action comedy about hilarious domestic disputes, or a harrowing kitchen-sink drama about the emotional toil caused by a lifetime of familial resentment. Just a guess, but let’s go with the first one.
Rampage Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson stars in an ironic action-comedy remake of a beloved piece of entertainment, in this case a 1986 coin-operated arcade game.
Doc Savage Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson stars in an ironic action comedy adaptation of the closest thing he could find to Indiana Jones, after he failed to secure the rights of Indiana Jones.
Journey 3: From the Earth to the MoonOne of Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson’s films for kids, which flits inconsistently between slapstick and foot-of-the-bed ultra-sincerity.
San Andreas 2 Sequel to San Andreas. Just when Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson has finished putting the world back together after the events of the first film, it’s destroyed again by another earthquake. Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson vows to dig to the centre of the earth and punch some magma in the mouth.
Black Adam If I’ve got this right, Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson dips his toe into the dwindling stocks of unadapted superhero characters to play one of DC’s least-known baddies, the primary antagonist of Shazam!
Shazam! If I’ve got this right, Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson dips his toe into the dwindling stocks of unadapted superhero characters to play one of DC’s least-known goodies, the figure who protects the world from Black Adam. Wait, what?
Big Trouble in Little China Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson stars in an ironic action-comedy remake of a beloved piece of entertainment, in this case a film he should absolutely not have been allowed to go anywhere near.
Muscle Beach Loved Baywatch, but sad that Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson didn’t just stand in one place lifting things over and over again in it? This is just the movie for you.
Untitled Jerry Bruckheimer/Dwayne Johnson Project Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson stars in an ironic action-comedy remake of a beloved piece of entertainment, which in all likelihood is Pirates of the Caribbean.
SkyscraperEither a) a disaster film where Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson plays a lift attendant tasked with saving his family from a burning skyscraper, or b) an ironic action comedy remake of the little-seen 1996 Anna Nicole Smith vehicle.
Jungle Cruise Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson plays Jungle Cruise, a man who enjoys nothing more than cruising in the jungle. One day his hovercraft is attacked by hundreds of alligators, and all the trees catch fire, and he – alongside a woman of such indeterminate age that it’s never really clear whether she’s his wife or daughter – has to machine-gun his way out.
Alpha Squad Seven Tricky. Since this film has a number in the title, it could be a gritty wartime drama. Then again, Alpha Squad Seven abbreviates to ASS so it’s probably an ironic action comedy.
Untitled Wrestling Comedy This one might be the comedy drama directed by Stephen Merchant, which would be weird, because that also has the title Fighting With My Family. The likelihood is that this is simply a duplicate. This whole list is nonsense, isn’t it? God, I’m wasting my life.
SEAL Team 666 Again, this has a number in the title, so it might be a gritty drama about Navy Seals. Then again, that number is 666, so it might be an ironic action comedy about some soldiers punching the devil.
Racing Dreams A racing car driver has a dream: to become the world champion at driving racing cars. Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson plays the car, because there’s no way a man of his size would ever realistically fit in a driving seat.
Untitled Larry Hillblom Project This is a weird one. Larry Hillblom was the billionaire co-founder of the courier company DHL, and a man who, after he died in a mysterious plane crash, was discovered to have spent years compulsively having sex with young virgins in south-east Asia. He was by all accounts a terrible man, which suggests that this one might not actually be an ironic action comedy.
Boost Unit Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson plays Boost Unit, a tough but kind-hearted car thief who punches buildings or something.
Take My Wife Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson stars in an ironic action-comedy remake of a beloved piece of entertainment, in this case a reboot of Taken in which Bryan Mills calls up a series of human traffickers and asks them to abduct his family.
Teddy Bear Another kids’ film. Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson plays a teddy bear, which is funny because he is a muscular man in his mid-40s.
Untitled Dwayne Johnson Action Comedy That’s Untitled Dwayne Johnson Ironic Action Comedy to you, sir.
Son of Shaolin Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson plays a Buddhist monk who has to punch his way out of a maximum security jail to save his family from wolves.
Not Without Hope Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson pulls three words out of a tombola machine at random. “Sure, I can make an ironic action comedy out of this,” he says. “I mean, I’m pretty good at them by now.”
The Janson Directive Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson plays Janson Directive, a tough soldier or spy or fireman who has to save his family in a knockabout ironic way while dressed up as bloody Humpty Dumpty or whatever. I mean, Jesus Christ.
Barely 24 hours after the word had got out, Siobhan McDonald was sitting at a sunny Paris café terrace last Saturday still coming to grips with having just been named the UN Climate Action Programme’s first artist of the week in its new #Art4Climate series.
“The first I knew about it was when I opened my computer and saw the news had gone viral on Twitter and Facebook,” she says. “I am thrilled, of course, but also a bit humbled – my work strives to get the message across about the evolution of nature and the cosmos.”
McDonald was in Paris for the March 12 close of her six-week solo exhibition, Crystalline, at the Irish Cultural Centre, curated by Helen Carey. It included oil paintings on un-primed and weathered board; sumi ink drawings; photogenic drawings of the light and atmospheric conditions of the four major epochs up to the current Anthropocene; a layered sun combining basalt, calfskin, bone an silver wire; and plant pressings from the 1825 Franklin Arctic expedition, on public display for the first time.
The exhibition has prompted a number of reviews in English-language and French media, including the Apollo art magazine and the French weekly Télérama, which said the show was “beautiful and intelligent: two adjectives rare(ly strung) together.” Apollo’s Tom Jeffreys added “McDonald commemorates the vast diversity of the environment we inhabit and explores our equally diverse responses to it. She does so deftly and with an aesthetic that is at once coherent, understated and quietly powerful”.
Although her work is driven mainly by her fascination with the corrosion, compression and expansion of materials, McDonald is resolutely a visual artist, and says the climate change theme gravitated to her rather than the other way round. “My work is about the spirit of discovery of what is still unknown to science, going beyond the edge of the universe and exploring the layers that go back to our origins.”
Her fascination with nature and materials began early. “As a young child, I was always looking under rocks, and I remember the first time I held a meteorite – it was startling to hold something that came from somewhere else in our solar system.” Although fundamentally a painter, McDonald’s works also spans installation, sculpture, and sound.
The eponymous work in the Crystalline show, an installation of dozens of squares of sponge with upturned corners coated with carbon and bone and stretching along the centre of the exhibition, touched different sensibilities. Although created to mark the launch of the European Space Agency’s (ESA’s) Solar Orbiter mission in 2018, one visitor said it reminded her of a music score.
She found that less disconcerting than the music that accompanied a four-minute film, At the Edge of Visibility, and echoed the sound of dying glaciers in the Arctic Circle. “It made me feel as though I were the sole survivor on Earth, and contrasted strongly with the optimism I felt in the paintings.”
Another visitor to the work, Marilyn Smith, executive director of the Energy Action (EnAct) multimedia project, which aims to remind us that energy underpins everything we do, did not feel the same optimism. For her, the exhibition gave a sense of what CO2 emissions really mean. “It makes the invisible visible, and seems to ask whether we have reached the tipping point [of no return] in climate change.”
McDonald’s work is “provocative, complex and profoundly moving,” says Terry McMahon, an Irish film director, writer and actor. “Her interrogation of humankind’s fragile position in the universe is a daring assault on the senses that plunges the viewer into a river of history that goes right to the core of our existence. Yet, rather than these waters being dark, her show somehow reveals what a miracle our species is.”
Pace is a constant preoccupation for McDonald. “Looking back at our past gives us an understanding of time and our role in nature,” she says. “The vast diversity of the environment we inhabit has always percolated my projects, particularly the pace of human time with the slow disclosure of organic growth and change.” For her, pace is also at the core of a painting itself, for both the artist and the viewer. “There is something interesting about the act of painting in such a fast and image-saturated world. I think it has something to do with the slowing down of the process of painting, both in the making and viewing.”
McDonald is now working on a series of larger paintings. These pieces were inspired by a collection of photographs of the tragic 19th century Northwest Passage expeditions, which she found at the National Library of Oslo. “I was transfixed by the composition and shadows of a time gone by, which seemed to be erased in places,” she says. “The plates themselves seemed apocalyptic.” With this new work, she further develops her research and enquiry into the properties of materials and the relationship between humans and the natural world. “The narrative appeals to me as a metaphor for the process of painting,” she adds.
Before the end of the year, McDonald hopes Crystalline will be shown in Ireland, the UK and by the European Space Agency. New work for international art fairs with Gibbons & Nicholas, an exhibition at Paris Photo in November and a solo show at the Catherine Hammond Gallery, Ireland, are also under way.
All comfy in his striped pyjamas, Rodney Graham sleeps across the back seat of a car, driven through the night. Dimly visible, and dreaming sweet dreams on a double dose of a narcotic sleeping draught, he is like an exhausted child being taken home after a too long day. Are we nearly there yet?
Graham always goes the long way round in his videos, films and large light-box photographs, now filling two floors of Baltic. There are movies of a whirling chandelier and an indolent pipe smoker (in the next room, the sink is overflowing with suds), there are books, the smell of cinnamon, a road trip to Kurt Cobain’s hometown and recordings from Graham’s accomplished but still undervalued music career.
Most of all there are sumptuous, large-scale light-box images, all featuring Graham himself in a starring role: canoeist, stilt-walking plasterer, sous chef, lighthouse keeper, dupe in a wild-west bar, thinker, painter, voyeur. ­Graham the artist is just as much a succession of parts – musician, photographer, director, writer, conceptualist, joker and sentimentalist. The labels are insufficient for the Vancouver artist, 68, who keeps slipping in and out of view.
Now he is a US lighthouse keeper, in a lighthouse, reading a book about lighthouses, and there’s a scale model of a lighthouse on the table behind him. Come to think of it, the huge backlit image is itself a sort of light house, making the obscure visible. This is dizzying.
The staging, set-dressing and props that make up Graham’s images have a wonderful circularity. In one funny, visually complex image, Graham is a painter, a Gifted Amateur, the title tells us, getting down to some post-painterly 1960s abstraction in his mid-century modern house. He’s probably back from seeing a Morris Louis show, and has decided to do some pouring himself. Thick yellow paint drools from a Tupperware bowl towards a canvas leant across the furniture. Again, the artist is in his jim-jams, cigarette between his lips. The parquet floor is covered in newspaper (smoking and newspapers are recurrent motifs). The piles of art books, the reel-to-reel tape machine, the furnishings, the overflowing ashtrays, are perfect Mad Men-era details, still lifes that nearly trip you up as Graham lays down the acrylic.
Sometimes I wonder if Graham can’t tell method acting from real life. What rich and engaging images these are: Graham as a young Georges Braque, playing the accordion; Graham as a top-hatted guy in a saloon, forced to leap and dance as cowpokes shoot the floor beneath his feet; Graham as some sort of voyeur or spy on a park bench, reading a newspaper from 1878. He’s cut eyeholes in the paper so he can take furtive peaks at the passing world. His suit doesn’t seem to fit the times. Or the newspaper doesn’t. Something’s wrong at any event, in this almost innocent but unhinged image.
In one of the best works, he stands outside an old-fashioned, closed down Woolworth’s store with newspapers covering the windows. It is 1947. He’s reading the old news while a woman (Graham’s wife, artist Shannon Oksanen) walks down the street. Time is out of joint and so are we.
Laconic, wry and deeply complex, Graham’s art is compendious in its reach. He could easily fill the whole of Baltic several times over. His art is autobiographical, art-historical.
One image from the Four Seasons series is a play on Thomas Eakins’s 1871 The Champion Single Sculls (Max Schmitt in a Single Scull). Other works are deceptively simple. In the black and white film Coruscating Cinnamon Granules, a spiral electrical hotplate heats up, the image disturbed by flares and flashes as cinnamon granules, dropped on to the element, flash and burn. A chandelier slowly rotates, then goes into a mad spin. A snowfall of sifted flour slowly clogs a 1930s German typewriter. One thinks of a writer muffled, and of the shed hair and skin that accumulates between keys in constant use, of the whiteness of a blank page (itself a kind of whiteout) that silences thought. The more you tease at it, the more there is to it, to be wondered at, to be troubled by, to be enjoyed.
• At Baltic, Gateshead, 17 March-11 June.
Framed by Schumann’s Piano Quartet and Shostakovich’s Piano Quintet, Charlotte Bray’s new work is the centrepiece of the Schubert Ensemble’s programme. Each of the three movements of Zustände is inspired by a different form of ice, all photographed by Bray on a recent trip to Greenland.
Wiltshire Music Centre, Bradford-on-Avon, 18 March
Handel’s 1738 opera gets a rare modern staging as part of the London Handel festival. Laurence Cummings conducts the London Handel Orchestra and singers from the Royal College of Music’s International Opera School in William Relton’s production.
Royal College of Music: Britten Theatre, SW7, 20 to 25 March
Thomas Dausgaard and the BBC SSO explore the strange musical world of Danish composer Rued Langgaard. They perform Langgaard’s fourth symphony, Leaf-fall, on Sunday, and premiere his sixth, The Heaven-Rending on Thursday.
City Halls, Glasgow, 19 & 23 March
Martyn Brabbins conducts the latest of the Nash Ensemble’s showcases of new British music. There are world premieres from Colin Matthews and Simon Holt and the London premiere of Peter Maxwell Davies’s last setting of poetry by George Mackay Brown.
Wigmore Hall, W1, 21 March
Composer Lindberg and cellist Anssi Karttunen go back a long way. Lindberg wrote his first cello concerto for him in 1999, and Karttunen gave the world premiere of the second in 2013. Now that later work arrives in London for the first time.
Royal Festival Hall, SE1, 22 March
The latest Netflix-Marvel mashup, Iron Fist, opens with a barefoot Danny Rand walking through New York City.
Rand, dressed in the grey, loose linen of a gap year traveller, is on his way to the billion-dollar Rand corporation, the company founded by his late father, but his attempt to enter the company building is thwarted because a) no one remembers him and b) he looks like a man at risk of playing Wonderwall on an acoustic guitar.
Soon Rand, played by Finn Jones – more on him later – is using his martial arts prowess to defeat a number of inept security guards, before confronting Ward Meachum, a git who has ended up in charge of the Rand corporation and is unwilling to acknowledge that this is indeed Danny Rand. But if viewers were then expecting the show to explode into a cacophony of fistfights and boardroom brawls, they will be sorely disappointed.
Iron Fist moves slowly. Very slowly. Rand spends the first episode wandering around New York City, embarking on a friendship with a homeless person that seems to have no bearing whatsoever on the plot, and experiencing endless flashbacks – actually, repeatedly experiencing almost the exact same flashback – to the plane crash that killed his parents.
With 13 hour-long episodes to play with, it feels as if the writers have struggled to fill the time. Rand spends almost an entire episode strapped to a bed in a mental institution, which inevitably limits the number of fight scenes, and it takes an age before his true foes begin to emerge. In a similar vein, the Netflix blurb promises much of Rand’s ability to “summon the awesome power of the fiery Iron Fist”, but it takes a good long time for the power of said fist to even be mentioned, let alone summoned.
Once the fist’s power is finally drawn upon it does indeed prove awesome – capable of blasting through walls like some sort of bazooka-hand, or like a very strong fist, but the show could surely have displayed its might much sooner. In fact, there isn’t a great deal of fighting at all in the early parts of the show. Rand is billed as a master of kung fu, but the flashes of this proficiency are few and far between. And while we wait for the brawling to commence, there isn’t much lightness to hold the interest.
Compared with earlier Netflix-Marvel collaborations Daredevil, Jessica Jones and Luke Cage – the lead characters from which will pair with Rand in The Defenders this summer – Iron Fist is as dry as a bone. Jessica Jones, as a character, is sarcastic, cynical, funny. Luke Cage isn’t a renowned wit, but he does have the catchphrase “sweet Christmas” and the show has its moments. Even Daredevil has the comic, if occasionally irritating, foil of Foggy Nelson.
All this aside, an equally pressing problem for Iron Fist faces is that it has attracted a significant amount of ill-will before it even aired. Back in 2014 the comic fansite Nerds of Color launched a campaign to cast an Asian American to play Danny Rand. Clearly those hopes were thwarted, with the show staying true to the original comic, prompting upset among some fans. And if Jones can hardly be blamed for his own casting, he can certainly be blamed for a series of comments over the past month where he seems to have been doing his best to discourage people from watching Iron Fist.
Earlier this month, Jones became involved in a Twitter discussion with someone from the online community Geeks of Color, where he addressed the criticism over his casting by insisting Iron Fist is the “most diverse” of its three companion shows.
As Iron Fist began to attract negative reviews, Jones plaintively defended the show by claiming: “It’s for the fans”, and urged people to “get angry at the real fucking injustices in the world, yeah?”
Just for good measure, Jones has also blamed Donald Trump for the negative reaction, which similarly failed to win round a skeptical media.
While Jones’s comments have been tone-deaf, the quickfire release of his oblivious remarks have at least demonstrated a relentless pacing entirely lacking from the show itself.
Only the first six episodes of Iron Fist were shown to the press, so perhaps the second half of the season will spark into life. Let’s hope so. Because right now the show is in danger of becoming the Jar Jar Binks of the Marvel-Netflix franchise. But without the comedy moments.
Hot Chip have always tweaked their back catalogue in their live shows. Founding member Taylor’s 2016 album Piano went a step further by reducing old tracks to their bare bones, while his new project Listen With(Out) Piano invites artists to interpret that album’s songs. All of which means his current live dates should be as intriguing and unpredictable as they are reliably soulful.
Bexhill-on-Sea, 19 March; Bristol, 21 March; Liverpool, 22 March; Manchester, 23 March; Gateshead, 24 March
Even after Donald Trump unleashes his nuclear armageddon, you imagine it will still be possible to find a venue whose crumbling remains are hosting this Birkenhead band. Last year’s rarities collection, featuring gems such as Hair Like Brian May Blues, was a reminder of their comedic resilience.
O2 Academy, Oxford, 18 March
As part of music, art and technology festival Convergence, the experimental metallers bring the noise to the Barbican along with a perfectly counterbalancing opener: Icelandic singer and cellist Hildur Guðnadóttir.
Barbican Hall, EC2, 21 March
When you’re known predominantly for working with the likes of Kendrick Lamar and Kamasi Washington you might understandably feel the need to make a statement with your solo work. Hence last month’s Drunk, Thundercat’s futuristically funky 23-track treatise on the noble art of getting, well, drunk. What better gig to get tipsy at this week? Bristol, 22 March; Manchester, 23 March; Liverpool, 24 March; touring to 28 March
Alternative rock might be in the doldrums but the presence of sad lads in today’s pop landscape has arguably never been greater, with the likes of Yung Lean and Lil Peep bringing genres like hip-hop into the miserablist fold. Will Toledo’s soul-baring is more traditional – lo-fi rock is the weapon of choice – but his openness makes it refreshing. Electric Ballroom, NW1, 23 March; Gorilla, Manchester, 24 March; touring to 27 March
When Vincente Minnelli and Gene Kelly were making the 1951 film An American in Paris, their schedule had to be tailored to the needs of their star, Leslie Caron. The 17-year-old, who had been spotted by Kelly dancing with the Ballets des Champs-Élysées in Paris when he was on holiday two years previously, had been so weakened by wartime malnutrition that she could only work on alternate days.
The closeness of the war to the movie musical was embedded in its heart. Caron had seen and suffered the privations and compromised values of the occupation. Yet not a glimmer of her experience finally made it to the screen. “The movie is so sunny with all those happy Parisian children, laughing and singing,” says the writer Craig Lucas, who has adapted the show for the stage in a new version directed and choreographed by Christopher Wheeldon, artistic associate of the Royal Ballet. It opened in Paris and went on to win four Tony awards on Broadway and has now reached London.
As Lucas and Wheeldon began to research the musical, they realised how fresh the horrors of the second world war had been in the minds of American audiences. “Everyone was afraid of the Holocaust,” says Lucas. “It was so immense and so unspeakable.” Wheeldon adds: “Everything was so raw. Everybody was sensitive, devastated by the trauma of world events.”
What Hollywood producer Arthur Freed was after instead was celebration, an all-singing, all-dancing explosion of colour and life with which his unit at MGM could rival musicals from before the war. He had heard George Gershwin’s An American in Paris (composed in Paris in 1928) at a concert and recognised that both the music and the title would make an excellent starting point for a movie musical.
Gershwin had died of a brain tumour in 1937 at the age of 38, but Freed bought the rights from his brother, Ira, for $158,750, over a game of pool. Ira insisted that the tone poem could not stand alone; it had to be surrounded by other Gershwin songs. In effect this makes An American in Paris an early jukebox musical – when Alan Jay Lerner wrote the script in three months he was working around established songs.
An American in Paris was a huge success, becoming the first Freed musical to take the best picture Oscar, controversially beating films including A Streetcar Named Desire and A Place in the Sun. Yet when people look back on it, they remember its beautiful sets, its daring choreography and Kelly’s charisma; they don’t often recall the plot.
Most memorable of all is the crowning 17-minute ballet sequence, in which Kelly and Caron waltz through a Paris depicted in the style of different painters. This was shot one month after the rest of the movie – which gave director Minnelli a chance to make another entire film, Father’s Little Dividend. The final ballet nearly didn’t happen, because MGM balked at the cost, a staggering $450,000. Yet Kelly’s instinct that this would confirm the artistic merit of the film was justified.
Wheeldon remembers watching it repeatedly on television as a child. “I was a huge fan of Kelly growing up,” he says. He wouldn’t revisit the movie until after the stage show’s first run in Paris. Instead his starting point for the adaptation was the music, going through the Gershwin songbook with Ira’s collaborator Rob Fisher to find a set of songs that would suit the new story he and Lucas were about to tell. They also researched the history of occupied and liberated Paris, seeking a more realistic setting in which the great soaring romance of Jerry, the GI who stays in the city after the war, and Lise, the girl he falls for, could develop.
Lucas says he grew up with men like Jerry. His father’s friends were all GIs, who had returned from battle unable to talk about what they had experienced. “Nobody went to therapists. That was for crazy people,” he says. “So they were the walking wounded, uniquely broken.” He wanted to reflect the suffering of the people under occupation, the complexity of collaboration, the dangers of the resistance.
These themes form a backdrop to the musical, but its darkness doesn’t make the stage show bleak; rather, it adds a layer of understanding to the vibrant celebration of love and life that An American in Paris represents. “If it had been the perfect film musical, like The Wizard of Oz, then it would have seemed almost unprofessional to attempt to translate it to the stage,” says Lucas. “But in this instance, maybe we could do something that would bring another angle to it that would allow people to see it afresh.”
The other way in which An American in Paris has been rethought is in its telling. Wheeldon is widely admired on both sides of the Atlantic, ever since he left the Royal Ballet for the New York City Ballet in 1993. He has worked on a Broadway musical – The Sweet Smell of Success, directed by Nicholas Hytner – and made a narrative ballet, Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, that proved his ability to communicate character and story through the pure medium of dance.
So when it came to being solely responsible for a musical, he played to his strengths. Although An American in Paris is full of great songs and fluent acting, its special quality is the way in which, at key moments, the story is carried by the power of the dance. In this, it returns the American musical to an earlier incarnation when great ballet choreographers such as George Balanchine and Jerome Robbins, creator of West Side Story among countless other hits, worked for the commercial theatre.
Wheeldon collaborated with Robbins at New York City Ballet. “By the time I got to him, he was quite mellow,” he remembers. “He had been fearsome in his early years, with a reputation for being quite uncompromising and getting performances out of people through intimidation and fear. But he was always lovely to me – a real inspiration.”
Robbins’s expansive choreographic spirit hangs over An American in Paris. “There was always so much humanity in his work,” says Wheeldon. As there is in the masculine ease and laid-back sex appeal of Kelly, whose belief in dance as an art form for everyone was demonstrated by his work on the film.
In an example of pleasing symmetry, Robert Fairchild, on leave from his normal role as principal with New York City Ballet to star in the show, was originally inspired to dance by Kelly. “I loved to dance, but being from a small town in Utah it was hard to want to be a dancer because it singled you out and made you different from everyone else. Then, when I was about 10, I saw Singin’ in the Rain for the first time, and that was it. He was my role model.”
This sense of the stars of the past supporting and inspiring the protagonists of the present has been characteristic of the production. For Leanne Cope, a former Royal Ballet dancer who has left the company to play Lise, meeting Caron provided her with the key to her interpretation. When they met, Caron talked about the real-life experience that informed her sense of Paris, but which had never before been incorporated into the show. “It was incredibly helpful,” says Cope. “She had lived through what we were portraying – the bread lines and soldiers and barricades. She would sneak out to ballet class and one day one of her friends wasn’t there. She was a little Jewish girl and her parents had to explain to her why she had vanished.
“She told me that once she saw some German boots on the floor and knew that the person who owned them had been killed. And so when I am sitting on the Seine, with Jerry, and I am telling him about the war, that’s what my Lise is thinking of: those boots.”
• An American in Paris opens on 21 March at the Dominion theatre, London W1T.
Plastic
The nature of responsibility and what it really means to be grownup are explored in Marius von Mayenburg’s slippery satire set in the home of Michael, Ulrike and their troubled teen, Vincent. The adults have made such a botch of marriage and parenting that it’s left to new cleaner Jessica to spot the problems and clean up the mess. Matthew Dunster’s production gets perfect performances in a play that constantly shows up the squirm-inducing gap between liberal pieties and what is really meant.
Theatre Royal: Ustinov Studio, Bath, to 25 March
Othello
Shakespeare’s rather unlovely play has two fine revivals under way at the moment. At the Globe’s Sam Wanamaker Playhouse (SE1, to 22 Apr), Ellen McDougall offers a production that puts the women centre stage and lets us hear them speak, while in the Shakespeare at the Tobacco Factory season in Bristol, Richard Twyman gives us a sharply pertinent reading of the play in which Othello is a Muslim and Iago skilled at using “alternative facts” for his own gain. It’s a terrific evening with newcomers Abraham Popoola and Norah Lopez Holden both beguiling as the doomed lovers, and Mark Lockyer outstanding as an all-too-plausible Iago.
Tobacco Factory, Bristol, to 1 April
An Inspector Calls
Stephen Daldry’s staging of JB Priestley’s thriller was called “visionary” a quarter of a century ago when it played at the National, and remains in fine shape. It still speaks to us, too, at a time when the gap between rich and poor is widening. But this is entertainment not a lecture, and Daldry – aided here by Ian MacNeil’s clever, collapsing doll’s house design – always ensures a good time.
Playhouse Theatre, WC2, to 25 March
La Strada
Director Sally Cookson brings a bittersweet hue to this stage version of Fellini’s film about a young girl sold by her poverty-stricken mother to a travelling strongman. Just as Cookson’s recent Jane Eyre and Peter Pan took inspiration from the originals without being in thrall to them, this doesn’t attempt to replicate the movie but rather makes something new from it.
The Oxford Playhouse, 21 to 25 March
Low Level Panic
First seen at the Royal Court in 1988, Clare McIntyre’s play about three women sharing a house was very much of its era. Chelsea Walker’s smart revival keeps it in period but reminds that this is a play for all time, reflecting the anxieties of young women about men and their own self-worth.
Orange Tree Theatre, Richmond, to 25 March
Rosalind
The excellent James Cousins Company explores feminism and identity in this contemporary portrait of Shakespeare’s Rosalind, from As You Like It.
The Place, WC1, 18 March; Brewhouse, Taunton, 22 March; touring to 5 May
English National Ballet
ENB scores a coup in becoming the first UK company to perform Pina Bausch’s Rite of Spring. Also in the programme are works by William Forsythe and Hans van Manen.
Sadler’s Wells, EC1, 23 March to 1 April
MK Ultra
Rosie Kay’s latest work promises a darkly intense tour of a bizarre world of cults, conspiracy theory and celebrity.
Birmingham Repertory Theatre, 18 March; Lincoln Performing Arts Centre, 23 March; touring to 18 May
I first met Ariel Levy in 2009, soon after moving from London to New York, but I had been a fan for more than a decade. Her frank articles about pop culture and sex, which she wrote in her first job at New York magazine from the late 1990s, provided the template of what I wanted to write one day. Her 2005 book, Female Chauvinist Pigs, a blistering look at how young women were being sold the lie that emulating pole dancers and Paris Hilton was empowering, became one of the defining feminist statements of that decade. At the New Yorker, where she has been a staff writer since 2008, she breaks up the magazine’s occasional aridity with vivid articles about sexuality and gender. (She got her job when she told editor David Remnick that, “If aliens had only the New Yorker to go by, they would conclude that human beings didn’t care that much about sex, which they actually do.”)
Heroes rarely live up to your fantasies, but Levy exceeded them. Usually we’d go out for drinks – cocktails that knocked me sideways, but barely seemed to touch her sides – and from the start she struck me as being just like her writing: laid-back, wise, curious, kind. Sometimes Levy’s wife, Lucy, would join us. “Isn’t she hilarious?” Levy would say after Lucy had said something that wasn’t, actually, all that funny, but I envied them their mutual devotion after almost a decade together. I, by contrast, was lonely and, like generations of single women in their mid-30s before me, starting to panic. But like a lot of women of my particular generation, I felt ashamed of this. Panicking about not having a baby? How retrograde. So I never admitted any of it to Levy, who seemed more likely to eat her own hair than indulge in such uncool, unfeminist thoughts.
I left New York in 2012 and, despite my doomy fears, had twins when I was 37. Levy and I stayed in touch by email, and although her messages became shorter and more distant, I assumed everything was fine, because she was Ari. But in 2013, I opened the New Yorker and learned that it was not.
***
When we meet for brunch on a cold Saturday in February, it has been five years since we last saw each other. It’s a typical New York scene: weary and winter-pale parents eating scrambled eggs in a trendy restaurant while their sugar-rushed toddlers play on iPads. Levy, by contrast, looks calm, happy and healthy, and not just because she has a tan from a recent five-week stay in South Africa.
“If we had this conversation five months ago, I would have been in a bad way,” she says, in a lilting voice that often puts an unspoken “Oh my God!” and “Can you believe it?” behind her words. “But I’m so much less miserable – I’m not even miserable at all. So what the frack are we going to eat?”
We are just around the corner from Levy’s flat, where she has spent the past year writing a memoir. This in itself is something of a surprise, because she is not normally a first-person writer. But Levy, after negotiating her order with the waiter (“Ooh, the cheddar scramble – is that good? But do we have to have the creme fraiche with it? I mean, let’s not”), shrugs off any concerns about self-exposure: “I’m pretty open book-y, you know? I never understood what the big deal is about privacy. The hardest part was realising that I’d better mean what I say. The whole schtick of the book is acceptance and surrender. So after I finished writing it, I thought, ‘Wow, I guess I’d better follow my own advice now.’”
In 2012, Levy conceived a baby with sperm from a friend, having overcome the reservations she’d long had about parenthood. She was about to turn 38: “It felt like making it on to a plane the moment before the gate closes – you can’t help but thrill,” she wrote in her 2013 New Yorker article, Thanksgiving In Mongolia.
When she was five months pregnant, she flew to Ulaanbaatar for work. Her friends were concerned but, she wrote, “I liked the idea of being the kind of woman who’d go to the Gobi desert pregnant.” After two days of abdominal discomfort, she ran into the hotel bathroom, crouched on the floor and blacked out from the pain. When she came to, her baby was on the floor next to her. “I heard myself say out loud, ‘This can’t be good.’ But it looked good. My baby was as pretty as a seashell,” she wrote. She stared in awe at his mouth, “opening and closing, opening and closing, swallowing the new world”.
She had suffered a severe placental abruption, a rare complication in which the placenta detaches from the uterus. In shock, Levy held the 19-week foetus while blood spread across the tiles. She eventually called for help, taking a photograph of her son before the ambulance turned up. She was taken to a clinic where a kind South African doctor tended to her while she bled and sobbed. “And I knew, as surely as I now knew that I wanted a child, that this change in fortune was my fault. I had boarded a plane out of vanity and selfishness, and the dark Mongolian sky had punished me,” she wrote.
I don’t hear less privileged women thinking they’re entitled to everything, whenever they want it. The body doesn’t play by those rules
Levy flew back to New York and, within two weeks, her relationship with Lucy came to an end. For months afterwards, Levy continued to bleed and lactate: “It seemed to me grief was leaking out of me through every orifice.” She looked obsessively at the photograph of her baby, and tried to make others look, too, so they could see what she saw and they did not: that she was a mother who had lost her child.
Her article, which won a National Magazine Award in 2014, ends at that point, and I assumed that the end of Lucy and Levy’s marriage was tied to the loss of their child. In fact, that was “a whole other shitshow”, Levy says now. When she returned from Mongolia, she realised through her fog of grief that Lucy, who had struggled with alcoholism before, needed to go to rehab, badly. The women, still in love but too broken to support one another, separated. Today, they are in touch, but, Levy says, “There are times when one of us says, ‘I gotta stop talking to you for a while because this is too painful.’ Just because you get divorced, you don’t magically stop caring about each other.”
The breakup is one of only several shitshows recounted in Levy’s memoir, The Rules Do Not Apply, which looks, in self-lacerating detail, at events in her life before she went to Mongolia, and hints at some that came after. It is not the book that many expected would follow Female Chauvinist Pigs, not least because it could be spun as a warning to women about the perils of waiting too long to have a baby. Placental abruption, Levy writes, “usually befalls women who are heavy cocaine users or who have high blood pressure. But sometimes it just happens because you’re old.” She doesn’t go into this in the book, but Levy, who is now 42, has not been able to conceive again, despite having undergone “a ridiculous amount of IVF” over the past four years.
The alternative way of looking at Levy’s memoir is that she is dealing with a subject that feminism has never been able to resolve: the immovable rock of fertility, butting up against female progress. Levy says she had always wanted to be a writer, “so I built my life with that as my priority”; by the time she realised she also wanted to be a mother, she was in her late 30s. She writes that she and her generation “were given the lavish gift of agency by feminism”, coupled with a middle-class, western sense of entitlement that led them to believe that “anything seemed possible if you had ingenuity, money and tenacity. But the body doesn’t play by those rules.”
“Of course, this is partly about class,” she says now. “I don’t hear women who are less privileged thinking they’re entitled to everything, whenever they want it. That’s a privilege phenomenon, but it is a phenomenon. It makes me laugh when people say, ‘Why don’t you “just” do surrogacy, or “just” adopt?’ Believe me, there is no ‘just’ about them.” Surrogacy costs $100,000-$150,000 in the US, while adoption costs are on average between $20,000 and $45,000 (costs in the UK are much lower). After the money Levy spent on IVF (“A lot. A lot, a lot, a lot”), those options are less possible than ever.
Doomy warnings that women need to stop shillyshallying and sprog up are published in the Daily Mail every day. They are far less common from prominent feminist writers, and Levy agrees there is no point in lecturing young women, “because it doesn’t do anything, and they know it already. They’re like, ‘Eff you: I’m busy trying to earn money and figure myself out.’ It’s just a design flaw that, at the exact moment so many of us finally feel mature enough to take care of someone beside ourselves, the body’s like: ‘I’m out.’”
In the UK and US, the average age of first-time mothers has climbed consistently for the past 40 years, partly because of the decline in teen pregnancies, but also because feminism has given women options beyond marriage and motherhood in their 20s. This, Levy says, “is a seismic rejiggering, and the cost can be epic”. While not all women want children, many do eventually, and it doesn’t matter how many articles you read about women who are childfree and fabulous – when the desire hits, it grabs by the root. That much has not changed, even if the age at which it comes has.
It feels almost treacherous to say this, I say, given how hard our mothers fought to give us more options than they had.
“I was never any good at keeping secrets,” Levy says. “I mean, we see the problem all around us. All of my friends had some nightmare experience trying to get pregnant. My story took the cake, but it wasn’t pretty for anyone.”
In the book, Levy suggests it was being a writer that encouraged her to think she could choose motherhood when she wanted: “[Writers] are accustomed to the power of authorship… you control how the story unfolds.” But I tell her I see the writer side of her more in her self-recrimination, the idea that she was to blame for the loss of her child because she waited too long to conceive. Although it is above the average age for first-time motherhood (in the US, this is 26; in the UK, 29), 37 is not crazily old to get pregnant. According to the NHS, 82% of women aged between 35 and 39 will conceive within a year if they are having regular unprotected sex. Levy was in a different situation, because she was relying on IVF. Is it easier to ascribe self-blame, or even societal blame, than say she simply suffered terrible luck in tricky circumstances?
“Well, it’s not just bad luck, because you are more likely to suffer from bad luck if you’re older,” she says. “But who knows? This might have happened to me if I’d got pregnant when I was younger. I just would have had more time afterwards to get pregnant again.”
***
Levy grew up believing the rules existed to be defied. As a child in pretty Larchmont, New York state, her mother’s “special friend”, a large African-American named Marcus, would frequently come to stay with Levy and her parents, a pair of “diminutive Jews”. Sometimes Levy’s mother would go to visit him. “Marcus had the power to change my mother from a stern regulator of all food containing sugar into a giggling nymph pouring giant glasses of 7Up, as carefree as if it were carrot juice. It was terrifying to see her so happy,” Levy writes. Eventually, her parents divorced.
“They came out of the 60s, where people were experimenting with all kinds of things,” she says. “And they were going to reinvent marriage, and everything that was established was bullshit. So my mom was like, ‘I’m going to have everything. I’ll have this thing and I’ll have my domestic life, and neither will affect the other.’ She feels really bad about it. You know, it destroyed my family. But it’s not like I think, ‘Therefore convention is great and traditional families are perfect.’”
Because neither the traditional nor the less conventional approach guarantees happiness?
“Exactly.”
Levy got in touch with an ex, only to find she was now a trans man. He wanted a baby, using his eggs and her uterus
As she grew up, Levy occasionally “experimented” with women, but it wasn’t until she was 26 and fell in love with her first girlfriend, Debs, that she realised this was, in her words, “a definite thing”. “The narrative around [coming out] is that everything that preceded it was a lie. But that’s not true for me – I really dug my boyfriends. But when I was with Debs, I thought, ‘Oh, I’m totally a lesbian.’ Then I thought, ‘Oh, wait. You don’t have to choose – no one’s going to make you sign anything.’”
She met Lucy when she was 28 and Lucy 41, at a friend’s party, and fell for her instantly. They had a wedding in 2006 and were legally married the following year in San Francisco. A few years after, Levy, then 35, embarked on an affair.
Even as affairs go, this one really broke the rules. Levy had got back in touch with an ex-girlfriend, Jen, only to find that she had since transitioned and was now a trans man named Jim. The sex was as good as Levy remembered, but on a personal level Jim infuriated her: he suggested the two of them have a baby together using his eggs and Levy’s uterus, a concept she found “repellent” in its blithe presumption: “It was his sense of entitlement – his belief that you could just keep choosing whatever you wanted in life, without ever sacrificing a single thing,” Levy writes.
But this was really a form of self-reproach: she wanted to be married, but also to have an affair; she had tried to forge her own path, but ended up replaying her childhood; she wanted to delay motherhood, but not reject it entirely.
Levy finally cut Jim off, and she and Lucy repaired their relationship. Soon after, Lucy’s alcoholism overwhelmed her, and she attempted suicide. But the two of them came through it; I met them soon after, when they couldn’t have seemed more together. They decided to have a baby. This, Levy thought, would be their happy story.
But happy stories come in unexpected shapes. Soon after Levy returned to New York from Mongolia, suddenly with neither a spouse nor a baby, she got an email from John Gasson, the South African doctor who had looked after her in Ulaanbaatar. He sent her her medical report, which stated unequivocally that flying to Mongolia had played no part in the loss of the baby, “just in case you have any lingering doubt or feelings of guilt”, which she did. The two began to correspond, “and that was a lifesaver, because he was the only one who saw me with the baby, and that was the only thing that felt real to me then,” Levy says. Emailing turned into visits. Visits turned into something more, and they are getting married next year. “This relationship feels less conventional than my relationship with Lucy: we don’t live in the same country, we have different lives. My straight relationship is a lot less straight than my gay one was,” she says.
Levy only hints at this relationship in her book, and I tell her I was amazed that she resisted concluding with this better-than-Hollywood happy ending. “Well, I didn’t want the book’s message to be, ‘Someday, my prince will come’, because it wasn’t like that. I was a mess for a long time. There’s no such thing as a happy ending. And this isn’t an ending – I mean, I’m not dead.”
The real lesson of Levy’s story isn’t that women are having children later and that this is a problem, but that women’s lives are now an entirely different shape, with happiness no longer dependent on the old markers. A woman can marry another woman in her 30s, and then a man in her 40s; a woman can run for president in her 60s. And even if they don’t get the original intended prize – the baby, the presidency – the forging of that new path still feels in itself like a triumph. But I suspect it will be some time before Levy will be able to tell that story.
She has always loved to garden; her roof terrace was always bordered by shrubbery, and these days she has vegetable and flower beds. “If I had my way, it’s the only thing I’d ever do,” she says. In South Africa, she has learned to horse ride along the beach: “I like how it feels like flying.” When we meet, she is just finishing up a New Yorker profile of the artist Catherine Opie, whom Levy describes as “a feminist and visual poet on gender”.
As for herself, Levy remains first and foremost a feminist, but one who has moved on from Female Chauvinist Pigs: “I still agree with myself that reducing women to tits and ass isn’t this liberating thing. But I’m just not that interested in talking about porn and whatnot at this moment in time. I don’t know if it’s because I’m older, or because the world has changed and we’re in a genuine crisis about women’s rights with Trump.”
Last summer, Levy decided, after four long years, to stop the fertility treatments. “I just need my life not to be about what I don’t have, or consistently failing to get it in the most painful way. And it’s great. I mean, you can’t spend the month of January in South Africa riding horses on a beach and be like, my life sucks. All choices mean not choosing something else, and if the kid thing doesn’t work out, John and I can travel when we like, and that has its charms.
“I feel like we’re not supposed to admit to regret about our lives, but I do have regrets, and that’s fine. That doesn’t mean I can’t live with them, or that something’s wrong. And it’s pretty great when I can hand my friends’ kids back when they start having a tantrum. Just as you won’t lie to me and say there’s nothing fulfilling about motherhood.”
A decade ago, Levy profiled the New York Times columnist Maureen Dowd, and asked her if she regretted not having had children. “Everybody doesn’t get everything,” Dowd replied.
“That sounded so depressing to me at the time,” Levy says. “Now it just seems like a relief to know I don’t have control over everything. It’s a part of growing up.”
Another part is learning that the rules are mutable: you can be divorced and still love your former spouse; sadness is part of a happy life; and feminism doesn’t mean getting everything. It means giving women choices and that’s a good thing – even if sometimes those choices are taken away.
An email arrives from Dr John Gasson, medical director, SOS International Clinic, Ulaanbaatar. As promised, he has sent my medical report, which I need to submit to my insurance company. He has also attached a study on preterm birth that he mentioned when we were in the clinic.
I ask him if it is normal that I’m lactating. He explains that the oxytocin that brings on contractions also signals the body to lactate. He adds that the “milk letdown reflex after a miscarriage is one of nature’s less kind tricks”, which I think is an elegant and apt way of putting it.
Dr John asks how I am feeling. I tell him that I am in hell. But the very fact of him asking, of being in communication with the person who was there that night, is a balm beyond any other.
I thank him for being so kind to me at the clinic. I ask if it’s gotten even colder in UB. He says that it has, but that the real problem is the pollution: the colder it gets, the more garbage and coal people burn in the streets for warmth, and the harder it becomes to breathe.
He explains that for six months of the year, he lives on the other side of the world, in South Africa, in a cottage he built himself. There is a stable there that he put up for his horses, and next door, his two teenagers live with their mother and her second husband. “I do miss my kids and horses when I am away, and that can be difficult,” he writes. “The kids will be leaving school soon and off to university. Then I will just have the horses to miss.”
I tell him about the time I spent in Cape Town. I describe my meeting with the track team out in the wind in Limpopo, my encounter in Pretoria with Caster Semenya.
Actually, he knows that story: he has been reading some of my articles online. He says he likes the way I write.
I like the way he writes, too: “One of my father’s better stories involved being woken up in the early hours of the morning and leaving in some haste as the house was burning. He remembers himself and his younger brother peering through the back window of the motorcar, still in their Victorian nightdresses, as the night sky lit up over the rapidly receding town of Barberton. The veracity of his account is suspect, but what is fact is that some very incriminating documents conveniently disappeared in the fire.” His sentences are so jaunty! And so foreign. They sound like they were written in not just another place, but another time. His stories transport me.
Dr John tells me about his childhood in Zambia and Zimbabwe – Rhodesia, to him, at the time. Growing up, he didn’t question why, if they were Englishmen, as the people they socialised with considered themselves to be, they lived in a country where everyone else spoke Shona and Ndebele. He did not really contemplate what it meant that his father – also a doctor – and his grandfather before him were colonialists, until many years later when he began to question everything he’d been taught about blackness, whiteness and where he belonged.
His brother, Greg, was his best friend; they were only two years apart in age. Their mother died when they were toddlers. Greg died, too, in a motorcycle accident when he was 21. I can feel how haunted Dr John Gasson was – is – by that loss from 6,000 miles away. His mother, his brother, his father, his country no longer exist, are part of the past.
I wonder sometimes if my grief is disproportionate, inappropriate
When we converse in writing, everything feels complete, discrete. I don’t have to explain what just happened; he was there. Within the confines of our epistolary friendship, I am not missing pieces of my life – except the one that came from my own body, the one that Dr John alone has seen. Not a picture of the piece, the person.
I wonder sometimes if my grief is disproportionate, inappropriate. “I saw my father fall apart after my brother got killed,” Dr John tells me. “But he had the consolation of knowing the adult that my brother briefly became. You don’t even know what your son would have been like as a little boy. I feel desperately sorry for you.”
Only Dr John saw him, and only Dr John saw me with him. Only Dr John saw what feels so violently true to me, I can’t stand that it is invisible to everybody else on Earth: here is a mother with her baby who has died.
And so, in one way, our friendship is a kind of fiction.
We are two people on opposite ends of the Earth, who do not know each other, who write each other emails as if we are familiars. (At first, we just exchange a few, here and there. But soon we are writing regularly. And the first thing I do when I wake up after I stop crying is check to see if he has sent me an email full of stories about places I have never seen, in a voice that is swashbuckling but somehow intimate.) In another way, these emails – and that picture – are the only things that are real to me.
• This is an edited extract from The Rules Do Not Apply, by Ariel Levy, published on 16 March by Little, Brown at £16.99. To order a copy for £12.74, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846.
My writing day? Ho ho, those were the days! When one had a “writing day”. Before the advent of No 1: old age, and No 2: partner, wife, whoever, getting long-term incurable illnesses. These slightly disturb the cosy pattern of the working week. A whole day to yourself! When was that last experienced?
In 1958, I got my first 30 bob a week bedsit and was earning a living as a self-employed illustrator. This was what got me into writing. I was often amazed at how bad some of the stories I was given to illustrate were. Golly, I thought, I could do better myself! So I tried to write one and sent it to the editor for some advice. To my utter amazement, he said he would publish it. Just shows what the standard was. Me, a kid of 24.
But then, writing in general, and children’s books in particular, is such a quick procedure that it’s difficult to understand how anyone could do it for hour after hour, all day long, as if they were writing War and Peace. With cartoons or the so-called graphic novel, it is a slightly different matter: you can easily spend more than two weeks on a single page. Writing, drawing and design are all going on at the same time. In most publishers there is more than one person at work: writer, designer, illustrator and colourist. But there are some who do the whole jolly lot themselves, can you believe?
In the 50s, I did spend all day doing it, but this was illustrating, which takes far longer than writing. I remember saying to friends one day, the best time to work is 5pm to midnight. Shops and banks are closed, people you’re working for have gone home – you’ve got a full working day with no distractions or interruptions. Just imagine trying to do that today.
So there was time for a solid working day, despite my neighbouring bedsitter Jean frequently screaming throughout the day. She had schizophrenia, had never gone to work, so was there all the time. These fits were what she called “my attacks”. During them she would lie on her bed, tossing and writhing as if in agony. Not much help to the hardworking young fellow in the next room. But we soon became very close and got married in 1963. I don’t like marriage – it seems daft to mix up love and the law unless there are children – but I thought it might give Jean a sense of stability.
The best time to work is 5pm to midnight. Shops and banks are shut – you have a full working day
Later, in 1973, when she was in hospital dying of leukaemia, there was a bit more time for a working day in the gaps between hospital visiting hours. I was doing my Father Christmas book at the time and used to take in the latest spreads to show her. Even then, when trying to work, it was difficult to concentrate, having just seen schizophrenia and leukaemia doing their worst together at the same time.
Later, I met Liz in our local pub and we started a long friendship that lasted for the following 40 years. She was divorced and had two children, aged eight and six, and one or two lodgers, so there was no room for me to live with her. I stayed in my house and went to Liz in the evenings. Now, there was time for a working day and I could just get on with it. During this time I did Fungus the Bogeyman, which took over two years, and as light relief after that, The Snowman and other books.
This went on until Liz developed Parkinson’s disease, which led to dementia and continued for so many years I lost count. Eventually, she had to go into a care home for many months, until she died in October 2015.
Hey ho, on we go. A full working day at last. But then old age came clattering in – 18 January 2017, my 83rd birthday. As an old chum gleefully pointed out: “Entered your 84th year, Briggo!”
• Raymond Briggs has received the 2017 Book Trust lifetime achievement award. Among his most famous books are The Snowman and Fungus the Bogeyman, published by Puffin.
West Yorkshire Playhouse’s new associate director, Amy Leach, delivered an imaginatively minimal, two-handed version of Kes in 2016. Stepping up to this theatre’s bigger stage, she delivers a hot and hormonal Romeo and Juliet, whose oppressive northern environment and wilful destruction of teenage dreams places Shakespeare and Barry Hines on the same wavelength.
It’s not in fair Verona so much as unfair Harehills – or some equally underprivileged district of Leeds – that Leach sets the scene, where kids barely out of school uniform film civil brawls on their mobile phones and the Capulets are proprietors of an inner-city boxing gym. You could argue that an entirely avoidable tragedy becomes even flimsier in a world equipped with social media – couldn’t she have sent him a text before faking her own death? Yet the production particularly captures the sense of futility and waste at the heart of Shakespeare’s play. It’s notable how, as the action progresses, the pillars and flyovers of Hayley Grindle’s set accrue the increasingly familiar sight of cellophane-wrapped flowers signifying pointless, premature deaths.
Leach drives home the point with an astonishing final scene that reminds you how botched, ugly and unpleasant the central couple’s demise turns out to be. Dan Parr’s Romeo chokes and retches on the apothecary’s draught like an accidental OD; while Tessa Parr’s touchingly vulnerable and juvenile Juliet reminds you how completely the older generation have abnegated their duty of care. Pitifully, she bursts into tears like a frightened child who just wants her mother – then, perhaps remembering the one she’s got, drives the dagger home.
This breakneck palaeontological western is perhaps best not judged by its cover. A jigsaw dinosaur skeleton seems to welcome younger readers, despite the tagline’s warning that “Love lies buried”; this makes the appearance of sexual attraction (“I felt myself stiffening between my legs”)on page nine slightly disconcerting. But for a reader mature enough to handle the pungent, realistic detail of 19th-century life, it’s a fascinating, fast-paced, rich and provocative novel.
Appropriately, its author specialises in adventure that takes place on boundaries and frontiers. Kenneth Oppel’s Silverwing trilogy, with its cast of migrating bats, has been compared to Watership Down, selling over a million copies worldwide. In steampunk vein, he has written about thousand-car trains crossing Canada in The Boundless, and 900-ft airships crossing the Pacific in Airborn. Now he has turned his hand to the secrets of prehistory.
Neither palaeontology nor romance is slow or sedate in Every Hidden Thing, with its central story partly inspired by the “bone wars” – a race between two early palaeontologists to discover new species, and to trash each other’s reputations en route. In Philadelphia, at a lecture on the elasmosaurus, the speaker’s son, Samuel Bolt, meets Rachel Cartland, daughter of his father’s arch-rival. Though she is plain, and “dressed with all the flair of a cabbage-moth”, her herpetological knowledge makes her “extraordinarily interesting” to him, and when their warring fathers set out on a race to unearth the king of dinosaurs, they are increasingly drawn to each other. But who will reach the “rex” first – and can their romance survive their parents’ antipathy?
There is a great deal packed into this book beside the breathless contest at its heart. It might be a whirlwind romance, but there is no sense of a fairytale ending, and a strong but nuanced vein of feminism runs throughout. For Rachel, even sewing a split skirt so that she can ride astride is potentially risque. Her hard-won knowledge is dismissed by her father’s Yale-student researchers; her father himself perceives her half as possession, half as burden. She is a credible, determined, enforcedly self-focused character: a heroine in the mould of Frances Hardinge’s Faith, in the Costa-winning The Lie Tree.
The earthiness might deter some, but it brings the thrill of discovery, first love and a nail-biting chase vividly alive
The lives of the “Indians”, and their casually cruel treatment by scientists and soldiers, are interwoven throughout. The novel opens with a boy experiencing a vision, and winning a prehistoric tooth; this relic will later be stolen from a corpse by Rachel, her scientific curiosity contending with her guilt at desecrating the burial. Her father, however, does not scruple to rob the body of its head, or to torture a Sioux boy who knows the secret of the rex’s resting place. Rachel and Samuel sympathise with the boy, and the expedition’s Pawnee scouts, but remain credible creatures of their time – even as the 21st-century reader is maddened by the invaders’ arrogance.
This is a warts-and-all novel, more Deadwood than Rawhide. Sex involves armpit hair and impotence; sharing a tent with Samuel, Rachel hears him break wind in his sleep. Fathers fist-fight, admit to cheating and philandering, resort to blackmail and dirty tricks. While the writing’s earthiness might deter some, it brings the thrill of discovery, first love and a nail-biting chase vividly alive in this dinosaur adventure emphatically for older readers.
• Every Hidden Thing is published by David Fickling. To order a copy for £9.34 (RRP £10.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
Born in Buckinghamshire, Tim Rice, 72, is a lyricist. In the 60s, he teamed up with Andrew Lloyd Webber and wrote the hit musicals Joseph And The Amazing Technicolour Dreamcoat, Jesus Christ Superstar and Evita. Later Rice collaborated with Elton John on The Lion King, winning an Oscar for Can You Feel The Love Tonight in 1995. Rice has written the theme song for the film The Time Of Their Lives, which stars Joan Collins and Pauline Collins. He has four children aged 41, 39, 17 and five months, and seven grandchildren. He divides his time between London, Cornwall and Scotland.

When were you happiest?When I was seven. I remember it as a golden time, long gone.
What is the trait you most deplore in yourself?A pathetic desire to be liked.
What is the trait you most deplore in others?Blokes wearing shorts in the middle of winter.
Property aside, what’s the most expensive thing you’ve bought?A painting by Tamara de Lempicka.
What is your most treasured possession?For a long time it was my boxer dog, Tasha. My collection of Wisden Almanacks would be high on the list.
What makes you unhappy?Time moving too quickly.
What do you most dislike about your appearance?An overall gradual decline.
Who would play you in the film of your life?Mel Smith, but dear Mel has died, so Anthony Andrews.
What is your favourite word?Paradise.
What or who is the greatest love of your life?Beyond any doubt, my children.
What is the worst thing anyone’s said to you?Bernard Levin, a famous critic and brilliant writer, went to Evita and said it was the worst evening he had spent in the theatre and indeed the worst evening he’d ever spent out of the theatre.
What is top of your bucket list?I always wanted to swim the Channel, which is insane. I would like to write a play.
What is your guiltiest pleasure?I love watching Pointless.
What do you owe your parents?My father said once when I was 13, “Perhaps the best reason to be British is because Shakespeare was British.” I thought that was a bit bonkers. But he was dead right.
What was the best kiss of your life?My first one, in 1961. Who? I suspect she reads the Guardian so she’ll know.
Who would you invite to your dream dinner party?Eva Perón, Jesus, Elvis, the cricketer Don Bradman, the Everly Brothers, Barbara Stanwyck, Machiavelli and Socrates.
What is the worst job you’ve done?I worked in a petrol station on the A1 one summer. I enjoyed it except when I was on latrine duty.
If you could edit your past, what would you change?I would definitely change the way one or two relationships ended.
How often do you have sex?As often as I’m required to.
What do you consider your greatest achievement?Possibly the fact that some of the stuff I’ve written will still be around after I’ve snuffed it.
What is the most important lesson life has taught you?That you are more like other people than you think; you are not uniquely brilliant or beautiful.
The history of India’s independence and the creation of Pakistan had been unfamiliar to Gillian Anderson when she took the role of Lady Mountbatten for her new film Viceroy’s House. The actor had once hired a private history tutor, a dozen years ago, to fill in some gaps of history she was hazy on – “Stuff that just wasn’t in my brain” – but this had not been one of them.
“No, I’d thought let me start with a couple of things that I don’t actually know that much about, or I can’t remember that much about, which was the first and second world wars.” She starts to laugh. “But it was a disaster. Because I have no memory. I took notes, blah, blah, blah, but couldn’t remember a thing he taught me. Nothing. I’m not even sure, if you’d asked me the next day, I could have told you what I’d learned. You know, even my favourite books, I couldn’t tell you what they were about. It’s always been that way.”
The menopause hasn’t helped, and lately things have become so bad that she’s going to get herself tested to see if she might actually be dyslexic. “Somebody had said to me that dyslexia isn’t just about seeing words backwards, it’s also about the assimilation of information. I’d always been afraid to look into it, because I was afraid that if I found something out, I would think that I couldn’t do anything that I wanted to do. I have this impression that I can do whatever I make up my mind to. But the reality is...” She lets the sentence fall away with a grimace.
By a bit of luck, the one thing the actor has always been able to remember are her lines. “But of course that’s terrifying for me, thinking, well, what if this problem that exists in the rest of my life shows up in that respect, too? Then I’d be buggered.”
If this creates an impression of a ditzy blonde, it would be misleading. We meet at the photographer’s studio, where a rack of stylist’s clothes stands unused; she chooses to be photographed in her own, and the way she chuckles about this makes me think the preference is par for the course for Anderson on shoots. Her fitted black trouser suit and heels are a sort of corporate/fashion hybrid, and her manner is similarly friendly but business-like. Apart from her enormous eyes, everything about Anderson is tiny, and the compactness reinforces the sense of efficient self-possession she conveys. She was just 24 when, as FBI agent Dana Scully in the paranormal TV drama that would make her a global star, she captivated X-Files fans for 10 years with her hyper-rational cool, before moving to London where her career has been equally sure-footed. From period dramas (Bleak House, House Of Mirth, War And Peace) to big-budget TV series (Hannibal, The Fall), to independent movies (The Last King Of Scotland, A Cock And Bull Story), comedy (Boogie Woogie, Johnny English Reborn) and theatre (A Doll’s House, A Streetcar Named Desire), Anderson seems to get busier the older she gets. It’s a tall order for a beautiful blonde to play consistently powerful, intelligent women, but Anderson has pulled it off.
The actor brings her air of serious purpose to the role of Lady Mountbatten, giving us a less flighty version of the aristocrat than the good-time girl caricature we’ve been accustomed to. She evokes her character’s classic colonial glamour, but depicts her dashing about nursing the sick and injured, and being a generally good egg.
“One of the things that I was surprised by in studying Edwina was that there was certainly a turning point in her life when she went from being predominantly a socialite, and wafting around and having affairs, living pretty much from holiday to holiday and leaving her children at home. But when the war happened and she started to participate in nursing et cetera, her escapism completely switched over to being of service, so everything she did from that moment on was about properly digging in and working around the clock.”
Viceroy’s House opens with the arrival in India of Lord Mountbatten and his wife in 1947, to oversee the nation’s transition from colonial rule to independence. Hugh Bonneville plays Edwina’s husband, and their official residence – Viceroy’s House – is not so much the film’s setting as the third star member of the cast. Sumptuously filmed, at moments the movie is a sort of Downton Abbey of the Raj, with all sorts of romantic intrigue going on below stairs among the 500 Hindu, Sikh and Muslim household staff. But there is not so much as a hint of the affair Lady Mountbatten was rumoured to take up with the man about to become India’s first prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru. Their romance was to have been the subject of a 2009 film, Indian Summer, until the Indian government took exception to the salacious storyline and forced the movie to be cancelled. In the hands of British director Gurinder Chadha, whose own family were among the 14 million displaced in the violence and bloodshed of the period, this new version of India’s independence is less racy, if rather more substantial, and concerns itself with the politics of partition.
Anderson says she was always conscious while making the film that some viewers will find the concept of a “good” colonialist inherently problematic – “yes, absolutely, absolutely” – and 70 years after independence, she found herself revisiting colonialism’s dynamics on location. They filmed in Jodhpur, staying at the Umaid Bhawan Palace hotel, where the film was also shot, using the palace to double for the real Viceroy’s House. “And, you know, we’re in a situation where we’re in a developing country and we are filming at the height of luxury and, yes, there’s an uneasiness to it. There was one actor we worked with, who does a lot of work around the world in – I can’t remember whether it’s around poverty or Aids – who would not stay there. He refused to stay in the hotel, and wanted to stay in some place that felt more like India.”
I have opinions, but I don’t think my opinions are more valid because I’m an actor and have more of a platform
Even by the standards of activist actors, Anderson’s own involvement in social and political causes is prolific. The 48-year-old has campaigned variously for women’s rights in Afghanistan, against sexual violence towards girls in Myanmar, for better access to HIV treatment in South Africa and education in Uganda, against domestic violence in the UK and child trafficking across the globe, for the rights of indigenous tribes in South America and conservation of cheetahs in Namibia, against deforestation in the Amazon and rabbit fur farms in China – and that is nothing like the full list. I was therefore expecting her to be quite forthright about current political affairs, but am completely wrong.
“I generally have a tendency to steer away from outright political discussion in interviews, because I am an actor, and there’s so much that I don’t understand, and I don’t for a second feel like I have a right to that platform. I don’t want to get into a discussion about Trump or about Brexit or any of that – I feel it’s best left to people who really understand the very, very complex issues. Not for a second am I going to pitch in, because I don’t really know what it is that I’m talking about. I have opinions, but I don’t think my opinions are more valid because I’m an actor and have more of a platform than others.”
I wonder if this is her way of saying she shares the view that actors ought to stop turning awards ceremonies into anti-Trump rallies, but she looks faintly alarmed. “No, no, no, I’m not saying that at all. I’m only talking about myself. I don’t have an opinion on whether or not actors should speak out.”
She has, on the other hand, just co-written a book called We: A Manifesto For Women Everywhere. Rather like Anderson, it is less polemical than one might guess from the title, and more a manual for spiritual self-improvement. Co-written with her close friend Jennifer Nadel, a former barrister and BBC documentary maker, Anderson has described it as a work of advice to her younger self. “I have struggled with self-esteem myself,” she said last year, “and in looking at the ways that I have dealt with overcoming those things, I started to think that maybe some of it might be potentially useful for other people of all ages.”
According to the introduction, it is a “manifesto for a female-led revolution”, and Anderson stresses that it is “not a self-help book”, although it reads a lot like one. Chapters are called things like Acceptance: Making Friends With What Is, and Courage: Ending The Victim Trap, and its pages promise to “change your life”. It prescribes a detailed programme of fairly recognisable techniques, which range from meditation, affirmations (“This is who I am and I’m glad to be me”), messages to oneself on Post-it notes stuck to the bathroom mirror (“My name is Decca. I am a good and kind person. I do not need to please everyone. I do enough. I am enough.”) and a nightly gratitude list of reasons to feel grateful to the universe. As is often the case with this sort of book, I find myself torn between cynical giggles and the mesmerising thought: what if it works?
Anderson swears it does, but she has such cut-glass British poise that I struggle to picture her solemnly reciting affirmations. It might have been easier to reconcile her voice with the book’s rather Californian, new-age tone had we met in America, for she is what’s called bidialectal; when in the US, she speaks in an American accent, but here she sounds completely British, and says she has no control over it. “I was in Los Angeles recently with a couple of Brits and I thought, I’m going to see what it’s like to talk among Americans with a British accent, and I felt so uncomfortable. It felt so disingenuous, and I kept thinking they must think I’m a complete twat. But when I’m here, it’s nearly impossible for me to maintain an American accent.”
Anderson was born in Chicago but moved to London aged five, while her father attended film school in the city. When she was 11, the family moved back to the States, to Michigan, but continued to spend summers in London, and by her early teens Anderson was rattling off the rails. Punk rock, drugs, an addict girlfriend and a much older boyfriend all featured heavily in her adolescence, and her classmates weren’t wrong when they voted her “most likely to get arrested”. On the night of graduation, she broke into her school to try to glue the locks shut, and was charged with trespass.
She has been in therapy since the age of 14, and the book is interspersed with personal passages on her own experience of mental-health difficulties. “There were times,” she tells me, “when it was really bad. There have been times in my life where I haven’t wanted to leave the house.” But there’s a bit of a dance between disclosure and discretion, because whenever I ask her to elaborate on the personal vignettes in the book, she shuts down.
I kept hearing myself say, ‘I’ve got to slow down, I’ve got to slow down, I’ve got to slow down’
The book contains enough 12-step-style advice to make me think addiction issues went beyond teenage experimentation for Anderson, and when I say so, she nods. Could she say a little more? “No.” After 24 years in therapy, and writing the book, I’m guessing she has a good idea where her problems stem from, but the question receives a chilly, “Pourquoi?” There are “quite a few”, she says, but “I would have put them in the book if I wanted to talk about them out loud.”
Her first husband was a Canadian art director she met on the set of The X-Files and married at 25. Their daughter Piper was born a year later, but the marriage was over within three years; her second marriage, in 2004, to a journalist and producer, ended within two. Months later, she announced she was pregnant, and had two sons – Oscar, now 11, and Felix, nine – with a British businessman, before they split up five years ago.
I’m curious about how a single mother who has been working flat out for 25 years (she was back on the X-Files set nine days after giving birth to Piper) can even find the time to practise all the spiritual techniques her book recommends.
“Well,” she smiles, “I’ve definitely deliberately slowed down. Because I kept hearing myself say, ‘I’ve got to slow down, I’ve got to slow down, I’ve got to slow down.’ I must have said that for 10 years, or maybe even 20 years. I was just sick and tired of hearing myself. I just thought, why do I do this to myself, and why have I done it for so long? People would laugh at me because I’d be like, ‘I had an extra 10 minutes, so I stopped in to say hi, you know.’ It became enough of a joke among my friends that I had to start paying attention to it. So one of the things I try really hard now to do is, no matter what, after I drop the kids, I go back home so I can meditate.”
Why has she always pushed herself so hard? “Well, the bigger-picture part is that I’m responsible for quite a lot of people financially, so it’s that. But it’s also a little bit of fear of what happens when one slows down. When I think about an empty period of time, fear comes up. I’m quite good at being on my own, so it’s not necessarily fear of myself, but probably fear of facing those things like: why do I drive myself so hard?”
Does she really compile a list of things to feel grateful for every day? “Yes! I do a gratitude list every night. I mean, it’s in my head now, but I go through stages where I think I’m just complaining all the time again. It’s too floating in my head, it needs to be on paper.” Complaining all the time is “probably one of the things I struggle with most. I suffer from great intolerance. Such intolerance of so much.” Such as? “Oh, intolerance of myself. Intolerance of situations. Intolerance of people on the street. Intolerance of whatever. So I have to constantly settle myself down from the state of being aggravated.”
I try to picture her stropping about, grumbling about roadworks or noisy neighbours, and find this image easier to conjure than the new-age version of her intoning, “My name is Gillian Anderson, I am a good and kind person.” She has a steeliness about her that I really like, but whether it’s proof of the success of her spiritual techniques or indicates the limits of their powers, I can’t decide. She certainly feels like someone in full control of herself and her life, and if this keeps her at a slightly cool distance, it is also rather enviable.
She says she used to be pitilessly intolerant of her own physical self, but won’t elaborate on how that manifested itself, because she refuses to allow herself that line of thinking. “I will not go there. I simply will not allow it any more. Because the things that we might be critical of ourselves about actually don’t matter. The only thing that really matters in terms of our peace of mind is our peace of mind itself, and how we react to things. All I know is that when I meditate, one goes beyond the physical, and it is possible to tap into a sense of absolute contentment and joy in that place. So if that’s where you’re starting, then actually none of this,” and she gestures to her body, “means anything, really.”
How is it possible for a working actor to liberate herself from concerns about physical appearance, when her existence is so entwined in it? After eight seconds of silence, she replies: “I don’t know. I mean, as I get older, I imagine the roles that I’m able to get are going to change. There will be a certain point where I’ll make the decision to go grey, you know. There might be a certain point where I decide that it’s silly for me to continue being blond when I’m in my 60s. I’ve also always wanted to direct, I’ve also always wanted to be an artist. Maybe when the kids are out of college, I can decide to downsize and go grey and get less work.”
The art of acceptance is one of her new book’s biggest themes. As someone who is terrible at it, I’ve never been sure how realistic an ambition true acceptance really is.
“Well, there’s an opportunity for fear around every corner, fear of the future, fear of what if,” Anderson says. “But the acceptance of wherever we are, whoever we are, is freedom. So, you know, I can sit and bemoan the fact that I don’t get the same roles, or bemoan the fact that my skin is starting to look like chicken skin, or bemoan whatever it is. But that’s not reality. That’s fighting reality.”
• Viceroy’s House is in cinemas now.
Women tend to get left out of the story of the European Enlightenment. Perhaps that’s because, while all that high thought and lofty chat was going on in 18th-century coffee houses, someone was still required to get supper and put the children to bed. Then there was the tricky fact that reason itself, which was the new guiding principle for everything from religious worship to transport infrastructure, was always figured as male. That left women symbolically aligned with all the things that needed to be repressed if progress was to prevail: impulse, flesh, superstition, not forgetting nature herself.
In this brilliant book, published to coincide with an exhibition at the Yale Center for British Art in New Haven, which will head to Kensington Palace this summer, a lineup of leading historians chart the myriad ways in which three individual women, far from blocking out the Enlightenment, helped refract its sunbeams over Georgian Britain. All three were German princesses who married into the ruling royal family. First came Caroline of Ansbach, the queen consort of George II; then Augusta of Saxe-Gotha, who was married to Frederick, Prince of Wales; and finally Charlotte of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, the long-suffering wife of poor George III.
In 30 brief chapters, some only three pages long, we hear about the avant garde composers these women commissioned, the educational toys they gave their children, the libraries of new thought they assembled on their bookshelves. Some of these essays deliberately overlap – Handel pops up in a music chapter while also making an appearance in the discussion of London’s Foundling hospital, of which he was a patron. Yet far from feeling confused or excessive, this approach builds a rich allusive pattern, a sense of the cross-fertilisations that were everywhere in play. Set alongside these essays are illustrations and close readings of key objects – a useful reminder that something as airy sounding as the Enlightenment was actually grounded in the material world of a Wedgwood dinner service, an architect’s protractor, and a pocket full of solid silver coins. It all adds up to a reading experience that feels positively tactile.
The book begins with an excellent contextualising essay from John Styles, who explains how German princesses were regarded as the Swiss army knives of early modern dynastic politics – useful all-rounders who could slot in anywhere. At a time when Britain’s Hanoverian settlement was still under threat from a Jacobite rump – there were attempted revolts in 1715 and again in 1745 – it was crucial that the nation’s consorts be impeccably Protestant, without any romantic attachment to the Stuart cause. What’s more, although these princesses hailed from principalities the size of pocket handkerchiefs, they had been exposed to the best of Enlightenment thought as it sluiced around the major courts of mainland Europe. Caroline, the cleverest of the trio, was a friend of Voltaire and Leibniz.
Still, if the incoming princesses thought that they were about to be given carte blanche to let the light in on Britain’s insular culture, they were in for a shock. The bill of rights of 1689 had been devised to ensure that the British monarch would always have to answer to parliament (no one wanted to go through the whole Charles I debacle again). In these circumstances the princesses’ new job descriptions weren’t so much about splashing the cash with flashy novelties – this wasn’t Versailles – but to use whatever ideas, goods and services came their way to shore up a shaky status quo.
For instance, when Caroline, newly anointed as queen consort, was rummaging through an old bureau at Kensington Palace, she discovered a run of Holbein drawings from the 16th century. Dusting them off and hanging them in her closet meant that anyone who had an audience with the queen would now see venerable Tudor courtiers peeking approvingly over her shoulder. Caroline’s next wheeze was to get the fashionable architect William Kent to build “Merlin’s Cave” in Richmond park. According to an old story, the Celtic wizard had once prophesied the accession of the house of Hanover. Preposterous nonsense though this was, the “cave” – actually a sizable thatched house – was copied all over London in the form of tea gardens, coffee shops and spa buildings.
German princesses were regarded as the Swiss army knives of early modern dynastic politics
Proliferation, indeed, turned out to be the key duty of the transplanted German princesses. The Hanoverians had inherited the British throne only after Queens Mary and Anne had failed to produce a viable heir. To avoid that disaster happening again, it was crucial for Caroline, Augusta and Charlotte to produce a flourishing crop of children. As soon as this was achieved, paintings were commissioned by luminaries including George Knapton, Johan Zoffany and Allan Ramsay showing the women drowning in an infinite number of small podgy arms and little lace caps. From here, increasingly sophisticated print technology pushed reproductions of these portraits to the furthest corners of the kingdom. Pretty soon wherever you looked, in market towns, manor houses and smart metropolitan shopping streets, the spectacularly multiplied royal family appeared to have got there first and set up camp.
This endlessly reproducible body remained the key instrument on which the three princesses performed their Enlightenment credentials. Caroline, who had lost her own father to smallpox, pioneered inoculation, heroically allowing her own children to be infected with a mild version of the disease in the hope of triggering future immunity. She was also deeply involved in setting up the Foundling hospital, an institution that rewrote the moral codes by treating illegitimacy not as a moral crisis but as a social problem in need of a clear head and a kind heart.
Queen Charlotte, meanwhile, demonstrated her faith in the advancements of obstetric medicine. Rather than being attended by a middle-aged midwife with no formal training, she put her trust in William Hunter, a smart young doctor who sought to banish the hocus pocus that could still, fatally, hang around childbirth. Charlotte rewarded his scientific optimism by producing 15 triumphantly bouncing babes.
Finally Augusta, having managed a mere nine children, turned to her garden to showcase her fecundity instead. Her aim at Kew was to build a “theatrum naturae”, a highly ordered space in which to display “all the plants known on earth”. By imposing a classificatory system, in which relations between parts and wholes became intelligible, her goal was to show nature dramatically tamed. How intriguing, then, that out of the three German princesses, it was Augusta whose personal behaviour struck spectators as most wild. Following the death of her husband in 1751, she was accused of having an affair with the third earl of Bute. What needs to be said in her defence is that, since Lord Bute was Kew’s “principal manager”, and a dab hand at mulching, the princess was making a rational, not to say enlightened, choice in opting to keep him permanently on call.
Whoever said, “Wagner’s music isn’t as bad as it sounds” got a cheap laugh, but the concept sometimes comes in handy with regard to other fields of creativity. A few years back, an expensive movie called Equilibrium was based on the idea of our world having turned into a dystopia where you could be consigned to the disintegration chamber if you were caught reading a book. Sean Bean got caught reading the collected poems of Yeats and was duly eliminated, barely before you had time to remember that this was yet another variation on Ray Bradbury’s postwar novella Fahrenheit 451, named for the temperature at which paper catches fire on its own.
The zillions of people who never saw Equilibrium were right: it’s a dreadful mess. But in the brief scene that shows Bean, with his Irish coffee voice, reading aloud from Yeats, he was at the height of his career. Somewhere in that paradox there is a work ethic signalling for attention. Performers do best to do their best every time. By no paradox, it is easier to maintain this attitude if you are not being treated as a deity.
Sam Neill, for example, has put together a richly sane career without ever having departed from the human scale, except for the odd stint as an intergalactic grand vizier or something. I met him once in Sydney and couldn’t initially believe how non-weird he was compared with the superstar I had interviewed in Hollywood a few days before, who would run towards himself and try to bite his own shoulder. Sam had already made The Dish, so I was able to pay him the biggest compliment you can pay any artist, and tell him, honestly, that my kids had loved it.
A few days ago, I watched it again, and it’s bliss. Better than that, it makes Australia look like bliss, too. Even around Parkes, where the dish still stands, there are ants and snakes, but there is something the whole world needs going on among the people: a reasonable expectation of each other. The mayor’s teenage daughter has reached the age of seemingly permanent know-all scorn, but the mayor’s wife knows how to straighten her out with no more violence than a sarcastic remark.
Meanwhile, Sam brilliantly delivers a deliberately non-bravura aria about what he himself has lost. It’s a great performance in a great movie, and a reminder that even the most lordly possessor of a talent must from time to time remember that he or she is a servant. Not even Olivier, arriving on stage to play Hamlet, could ever have imagined that he himself wrote the lines he was about to say. Although the asylums, of course, teem with poor men who imagine exactly that.
There are many reasons to miss the writer Gordon Burn, who died in 2009 at the age of only 61: his fearlessness in depicting the crimes of the Yorkshire Ripper, the Moors murderers and Fred and Rosemary West, and parsing their distorted, occult refraction of the English psyche; his wonderfully engaged, wry writing on sport, art, politics; his intuitive, loving understanding of the deep pathos and nostalgia of popular culture. But one of the talents that his death deprived us of becomes more noticeable by the minute. In 2008, Burn published Born Yesterday: The News as Novel, which he had written to a punishingly tight schedule during the course of 2007. Born Yesterday had only the slightest plot – a Burn-like character absorbs the world around him, noticing incidentals, making connections, drawing conclusions – because its real business was the news itself, its events and atmosphere gleaned from the newspapers and TV bulletins.
Here is an elderly, infirm Margaret Thatcher, walking in the park; there is Tony Blair departing office and leaving Gordon Brown to deal with attempted terrorist attacks in London and Glasgow, a flooded country and an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease; further afield, in a Portuguese resort, are Madeleine McCann’s parents making their stricken appeals for her return. But there are also appearances from those who might linger in the memory less concretely for those not intimately involved: “Super Smeato” – John Smeaton, the baggage handler who threw himself in the way of danger during the Glasgow attack; Michael Barnett, who died from hypothermia after his leg fastened in a storm drain during the Hull floods; Fiona Jones, the Labour MP and “Blair babe” convicted and later cleared of election fraud, whose alcoholism led to her early death.
Everywhere is detail, unstoppable, irresistible, kaleidoscopic. “I see what I see very clearly,” writes the novel’s narrator. “But I don’t know what I’m looking at.”
During the course of the book, Burn quotes a novelist also known for his striking ability to metamorphose the everyday into the uncanny: “Given the unlimited opportunities which the media landscape now offers to the imagination, wrote JG Ballard, I feel we should immerse ourselves in the most destructive element, ourselves, and swim.”
How to swim, though, if your preferred stroke is made with a pen? Or: how to respond to a time of extreme political and social uncertainty, a time when language itself is contested at every turn, and when urgency seems the order of the day? What can fiction writers make of the shifting ground beneath their feet, and how does their participation in – or withdrawal from – public life affect our view of them?
Just short of a decade after Born Yesterday came a novel, albeit very different in style, that was also written at furious pace and, at least in part, dictated by external events. Ali Smith’s Autumn presented readers with a novel that had clear kinship to her previous work – the preoccupation with the legacy of a forgotten artist, an imaginatively wayward child, the hidden life of a mysterious adult, all somehow woven together – but which also reflected on the country’s recent, momentous decision, whose impact was summarised in a short, incantatory chapter:
Autumn was hailed as the first Brexit novel, and it’s certainly hard to see how anyone could have written one faster
All across the country, there was misery and rejoicing.
All across the country, what had happened whipped about by itself as if a live electric wire had snapped off a pylon in a storm and was whipping about in the air above the trees, the roofs, the traffic.
All across the country, people felt it was the right thing. All across the country, people felt it was the wrong thing.
Smith’s gaze fell on those Googling how to apply for an Irish passport, the graffiti of swastikas, the flag-waving, the disappearance of money, and the constant appearance of lines:
All across the country, the country was divided, a fence here, a wall there, a line drawn here, a line crossed there,a line you don’t cross here,a line you better not cross there,a line of beauty here,a line dance there,a line you don’t even know exists here,a line you can’t afford there,a whole new line of fire,line of battle,end of the line,here/there.
Autumn was hailed as the first Brexit novel, and it’s certainly hard to see how anyone could have written one faster; Smith has spoken of how, having embarked on the project, the dramatic unfolding of events forced her to petition her publishers for another month to deliver her manuscript. At the same time, she was conscious of how the novel reflected her existing concerns, “about divisions and borders and identities”, and the uses, or abuses, of political rhetoric. That doubleness – an ability to produce a novel so recognisably of a piece with her previous work, and at the same time a springboard into something new – is surely a clue to how any artist might be able to make a rapid response to new realities aesthetically viable.
That, and determination. Howard Jacobson, whose novella Pussy will be published in April, put aside the novel he had long been working on and rose at dawn for six weeks to articulate his astonishment at the election of Donald Trump. It was also, he recently told me and an audience at Jewish Book Week, the result of having, for the first time in 18 years, no weekly newspaper column to write. All that news happening, and nowhere to respond to it: what else to do than get writing?
But, like Smith, Jacobson realised that a straightforward mirror was not the best way to reflect the strangeness of the times: Pussy, despite a fairly unequivocal cover – a flaxen-haired and querulous-looking man, clad in a nappy and clutching a naked Barbie-type doll beneath his chubby arm – does not name the Donald, recasting him instead as a spoilt prince named Fracassus who spends his youth watching reality TV in a gilded palace.
Jacobson’s most recent novels – the Booker-shortlisted J, and Shylock Is My Name, a contemporary reworking of The Merchant of Venice – have both taken a turn for the fabular, and both reveal the creative flexibility that incorporating elements of other genres affords: in J’s case, a dystopia that ensues when there has been an act of mass silencing, and a ghost story-cum-social satire in the retelling of Shakespeare.
Many novelists have reached for the unreal, the allegorical and the fantastical to depict contemporary concerns; we need look no further than Gulliver’s Travels, Animal Farm or The Handmaid’s Tale, once again racing up the bestseller charts (“Make Margaret Atwood Fiction Again” placards have become popular at US protest marches as the encroachment on women’s reproductive rights intensifies). And often such devices are useful precisely because they deter a literal interpretation that limits their reach; Kazuo Ishiguro, in setting his novel The Buried Giant in an imagined ancient Britain, allowed its exploration of the effect of the collective amnesia that follows atrocity to encompass numerous countries and societies.
Taking liberties with reality can also underline the enormity and aberrance of what is under discussion. Think, for example, of the talking cat in Bulgakov’s The Master and Margarita and the giant spiders of Jonathan Coe’s Number Eleven, or Colson Whitehead’s The Underground Railroad, in which a subterranean sci-fi plot erupts in an account of slavery. What other way to describe horror, Whitehead seems to suggest, than to write a horror story?
In her 1993 essay “Waiting for Godot in Sarajevo”, about staging Beckett in the midst of the Bosnian war and the city’s state of siege, Susan Sontag set out her view of the artist’s altered reality. “No longer can a writer consider that the imperative task is to bring the news to the outside world,” she wrote. “The news is out.” Her essay proceeds from that realisation, and the necessary question that it entails: what can and should those whose business lies in the realm of creativity and the imagination do in the face of crisis and suffering?
She recalled being asked if her choice of Godot was too pessimistic or depressing for the circumstances, “as if the representation of despair were redundant when people really are in despair; as if what people want to see in such a situation would be, say, The Odd Couple”. One could make the point that they might indeed yearn to see The Odd Couple instead of or as well as an existentialist play; and Sontag herself notes that there were doubtless more Sarajevans who wanted to see a Harrison Ford movie than Godot. But, she adds, “That was true before the war, too. It is, if anything, a little less true now.”
Instead, she pointed to the reparative possibilities of art: “Culture, serious culture, is an expression of human dignity – which is what people in Sarajevo feel they have lost, even when they know themselves to be brave, or stoical, or angry.”
If we accept the premise that “serious” culture – a loaded term, of course – can have properties that extend beyond the therapeutic or consolatory towards the more fundamentally healing, we are left considering the situations in which it might be deployed. But here comes the rub: the writing of anything, “serious” literature included, never comes from a place of neutrality. Filtered through its creator, it is inflected with place, time, social context, political bias. The idea of aesthetic purism, wrote Jean-Paul Sartre in What Is Literature? in 1947, was a “brilliant manoeuvre of the bourgeoisie”, for whom the writer, at least pre-1850, was a tool to make the status quo seem more palatable: “If he started reflecting on the social order, he annoyed and frightened it.”
In time, Sartre argued, the littérateurs began to buck the bourgeoisie and to set literature up “as being, in principle, independent of any sort of ideology”. And there, one might say, was the issue: literature “had not yet understood that it was itself ideology; it wore itself out asserting its autonomy, which no one contested. This amounted to saying that it claimed it had no privileged subject and could treat any matter whatever. There was no doubt about the fact that one might write felicitously about the condition of the working class; but the choice of this subject depended upon circumstances, upon a free decision of the artist.”
A great deal has changed since the time about which Sartre was writing, and the time in which he was writing, although writers are still free to talk, one day, “about a provincial bourgeoise, another day, about Carthaginian mercenaries”. It is difficult and undesirable to conceive of it being any other way – but in such deeply divided times this raises a particular issue.
In the wake of the Brexit referendum and the US presidential election, those on the losing sides have been told, repeatedly and vociferously, to “get over it”. You lost. Suck it up. Deal with it. Who are you, to deny the voice and will of the electorate? An enemy of the people?
One might lament the vulgarity, aggression and triumphalism of such language, but you can hardly deny its effectiveness. And there, at its head, is Donald Trump, the world’s only teetotal drunk tweeter. Of course, his mad messages are brilliant, distracting his detractors with their falsity and disinhibition. Mingling a pretended naivety (“Can that be possible?”) with bizarre quotation marks (“rigged”, “epidemic”), a predilection for capslock (“FAKE NEWS”, “VERY WELL”, “MESS”) and pomposity (“I hereby demand …”), they are manna to his supporters, whose eyes are drawn to those words he deploys so frequently: terrible, bad, sick, sad. For aghast witnesses, only his Pooterishness amuses: after all, as he reports, Rush Limbaugh said his press conference was “one of the greatest”, and if Rush Limbaugh says so …
In this arena at the very least, Trump has wrested control of the language away from those who would use it more temperately, more responsibly, more mercifully, more ethically. And the issue for artists is not simply that he is beyond parody (although I would still revivify Ballard and pack him off to Mar-a-Lago, Trump’s Florida club, pronto), but that he has undermined the notion of objective truth more successfully than most novelists can dream of doing.
But if artists want to effect social change, a greater problem awaits them. We have had change, and we may well be getting more. “The people” may have been seduced by lies, they may have been fooled by the sides of buses and promises of jam tomorrow, but they have indeed spoken. “We” just don’t like it.
This is not to suggest that writers, musicians, visual artists should be complicit in normalising what they might see as fascism, racism, totalitarianism. They should not shy away from facing squarely up to what lies ahead of us. But they will have to examine their own mediums’ specific forms of privilege. In a recent review of an exhibition of American art, Simon Schama sounded a note of optimism when he praised its brilliance at “inventive disrespect, and the relentlessly self-congratulatory vanity of Donald Trump presents the fattest target imaginable for its satirical artillery. The challenge, as with all such imaginative counter-attacks, is the capacity to project the message beyond the halls of college and museum and into the street where it counts.”
“Should that happen,” Schama continued, “the complacent dismissal of resistance art as the self-indulgent playtime of a defeated ‘elite’ will die on the faces of the powerful. Aux armes, les artistes!”
Let us hope so. Meanwhile, novelists must grapple with another key challenge: how to adapt a form that takes a long time to construct and execute to a climate so skittish that any attempt to capture it seems doomed to failure. Many of those who have done so in the past have realised this and taken action; George Eliot’s novel Felix Holt, the Radical, published in 1866 and set at the time of the First Reform Act in 1832, is more easily decoded, as Kathryn Hughes has argued, if one understands how it relates to the schisms in political parties and the generalised social unrest of its time of writing.
Narrative innovation and changes to the traditional publishing cycle may well need to happen. Literary magazines and newspapers must rise to the challenge, perhaps reviving the tradition, as outlined by Philip Hensher in his introduction to The Penguin Book of the British Short Story, of commissioning and publishing work that responds to topical events. Shorter forms of writing, appearing in different places, support for essays and poetry: Zadie Smith on Brexit, Atul Gawande on Obamacare, Junot Díaz on radical resistance. Hot takes by cool heads. Short-form satire, such as Hari Kunzru’s brilliant tweet-impressions of Trump: “Tax I mean what is it for us its voluntary more like tipping I mean the IRS is not even top 5 in the list of what stops me getting to sleep”; “Gimme your tired your poor your huddled masses and I will rate them hot or not.” Many writers will find – as with Jodi Picoult’s Small Great Things, or Amanda Craig’s forthcoming The Lie of the Land, which focuses on rural poverty and will be published on the first anniversary of the referendum – that what they have been working on for years has become even more timely.
But we also need writers who will play the long game; who will bide their time and present us with a more settled view in the years to come. When Robert McCrum spoke to American novelists in the wake of Trump’s victory, they appeared largely minded to exercise restraint. “We’ll have to see what Trump is going to do,” said Walter Mosley. “If it’s bad enough, I won’t be writing novels, I’ll be talking and writing about it.” Others appeared utterly wrongfooted: “I said Trump was an impossibility. The fact that I was so completely wrong has made me doubt what I understand about my country,” said Richard Ford.
Lionel Shriver, known for her ability to zero in on contentious and difficult issues, and whose last novel The Mandibles makes salutary reading (it contains a wall, for a start), has warned that: “It’s dangerous for novelists to point a plot at a moving target.” And Don DeLillo, with characteristic phlegmatism, possibly captured the mood best, months before Trump was elected. “I don’t know what the future holds,” he told a London audience last year, “but I don’t think anybody in the country is looking forward to it very much.”
In the meanwhile, we do what we can, and seize on moments of opportunity. A few weeks ago, I was at a 5x15 storytelling event (five speakers with 15 minutes each), at which I heard a Syrian man, Ahmad al-Rashid, recount his journey to this country in exceptionally clear and moving detail. A few days later came Trump’s travel ban. The juxtaposition was unbearable, but galvanising. I decided to organise a night of stories centred on the refugee experience, which will take place on 21 March at Conway Hall in central London; proceeds will go to Refugee Action and a number of other charities.
I am under no illusion about the sticking-plaster nature of an event such as this, but I do know that if someone tells you a story, they are no longer a stranger. And that the roots of all stories lie in a shared oral culture, not in a parlour or ballroom designed to keep anyone out. And that being a reader does not prevent you from also being a citizen; it might even help you to be a more empathetic, imaginative, compassionate one.
This collection has an extraordinary origin story. Bandi, meaning “firefly”, is the pseudonym for a North Korean who has worked, and might still work, as part of the nation’s official writers’ association. In public, Bandi contributed to government-authorised periodicals; in secret, from 1989 to 1995, he wrote stories and poems criticising the state – itself a heroic act in a land where the slightest political dissidence is enough to get you killed. When a close relative told him she planned to leave North Korea, he asked her to take along what had become a 750-page manuscript. She promised, instead, to send for it once she’d escaped. En route, she was picked up by Chinese soldiers; she bribed her way out, made it to South Korea, and enlisted the help of a human rights worker, Do Hee-yun, in retrieving Bandi’s writing. Eventually, in 2013, Do recruited a Chinese friend to smuggle out Bandi’s manuscript while visiting North Korean relatives.
The seven stories in The Accusation were selected from this clandestine manuscript, billed as the first of its kind: defectors have published books in the larger world, but not North Korean residents. Initially published in South Korea, the collection has now been translated into English by Deborah Smith, who with Han Kang won the 2016 Man Booker international prize for the translation of The Vegetarian. In Bandi’s stories, each of which is based on a factual situation, the characters are from a wide range of locales and social classes, from collective farm labourers to the Pyongyang elite. Some of them are relatively powerful, others unable to even obtain a travel permit to visit a dying parent; the accidents of birth determine much of their luck. In North Korea, people are organised into classes according to familial histories of loyalty to the Communist party. To be able to claim a father who died fighting in the Korean war, for instance, is a godsend; to have a relative who has defected to the South is the opposite.
But all the characters in The Accusation inhabit North Korea, and in these stories, as in life, no citizen is safe from the threat of political ruin. It’s a place where, following Kim Il‑sung’s death in 1994, Bandi’s characters leave flowers at altars built in the dictator’s memory “once before each mealtime, morning, noon, and night” because they know the visits are secretly being tallied. With Pyongyang soon stripped bare of flowers, the would-be mourners are forced to find the requisite floral tributes in the mountains. The ground is treacherous, slick with monsoon rains; some of them die in landslides. Still, they persist in trying to find more flowers, afraid that if they don’t, they’ll be charged with antirevolutionary crimes. In another story, a single parent works so hard on a soybean farm that he goes long stretches at a time without seeing his children; nonetheless, when his crop fails, he is indicted for antirevolutionary crimes. A party stalwart’s small son cries at the sight of giant posters depicting Stalin’s and Kim Il-sung’s faces. She tries to prevent his crying, but to little avail: the posters are ubiquitous, and she and her husband are judged guilty of, once again, antirevolutionary crimes.
The Accusation reads like powerful emotion felt right now, in a condition of ongoing crisis
In story after story, industrious North Koreans, “innocent people whose lives consisted of doing as they were told”, accidentally run afoul of the state and lose their last political illusions. They then get jailed, escape, die, or go mad, but the real culmination of each story occurs in that instant of revelation, when they realise that, despite everything they have always been told, the state is malign. It’s like living in an evil garden, one character says: they are slaves ruled by a demon, secluded from the rest of the world by high walls. The overall structures of Bandi’s stories are almost identical – perhaps too identical, one might think, except that the repetitiveness of their trajectories seems all too accurately to reflect the fates of real-life North Koreans. Bandi’s prose style is rough, jagged with exclamation marks and anguished rhetorical questions: this, too, could be said to fit the exigencies of his book. If poetry, as Wordsworth said, can be glossed as powerful emotion recollected in tranquillity, The Accusation reads like powerful emotion felt right now, in a condition of ongoing crisis.
In the book’s afterword, it is pointed out that, in lieu of trying to escape, Bandi chose to dispatch his manuscript, an “entreaty to shine a spotlight on North Korea’s oppressive regime”. In 2015, the human rights worker, Do Hee-yun, said he hadn’t heard from Bandi in months. He expressed concern that the author’s identity had been discovered, which would have led to death, or worse. “People write books and sing songs claiming that love is this or that,” one of Bandi’s characters says. “But to me, love was indistinguishable from sympathy.” In its scope and courage, The Accusation is an act of great love.
• RO Kwon’s novel Heroics will be published by Riverhead. The Accusation by Bandi is published by Serpent’s Tail. To order a copy for £12.74 (RRP £14.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.
Fame, says Simon Amstell, was supposed to fix his loneliness. Being on TV, taking the piss out of pop stars first on Popworld, then Never Mind The Buzzcocks, being loved by enough people, was supposed to make him feel safe. “But when it didn’t, when I still felt lonely and unsafe, it was: ‘Well, now what? What do I do now? Experience actual love? Well, that’s going to be tricky. How am I going to find actual love?’”
Amstell is now 37 but still looks, as he has always done, a decade younger. His hair’s longer, the glasses aren’t as thickly framed, but he’s still slight and boyish, shrouded under a thick grey marl sweatshirt. We meet in the cafe at the BFI where his new BBC film Carnage – a mockumentary about veganism that he’s written and directed – will be screened in a couple of weeks.
From the outside at least, it seems he’s had something of a career hiatus. It’s been five years since the final episode of Grandma’s House, the BBC2 sitcom loosely based on his family, and almost two since his last standup tour. In which time he directed a short film for one of the Klaxons, did voice work for a video game – and found love. “Yes, I’m in a stable, non-deranged relationship,” he says with slow, deliberate emphasis, “so, that’s handy.” It seems that “actual love”, coupled with his self-searching trip to Peru – where, he says, drinking the psychedelic brew ayahuasca “cured my depression” – have flipped things for him.
It’s probably unsurprising that the height of Amstell’s fame – when he was, arguably, the funniest presenter on TV – collided with the height of his angst. “I used to feel my neutral state was despair,” he says. “Now my neutral state is one of peace and contentment. However, it is a constant practice to clean up the mud that could get in the way of such joy.” He giggles, as punctuation to deflate the loftiness of therapy-speak. “I’m happy, but if I don’t meditate, if I don’t jump around in the morning, do a bit of yoga, that despair will return.”
He physically cringes when asked whether he might return to TV presenting. It’s 10 years – to the day according to a story in the Metro that very morning – since Buzzcocks’ most famous moment, when Amstell, with a nerve and guile easier in your 20s, goaded Preston from the Ordinary Boys until he walked off the show. But just the mention of it now makes him clam up, lips sealed under a cartoon headshake, until I laugh and move on.
“Ruby Wax, who I basically stole from in every interview I ever did, said the problem is we live so long we keep having to come up with new things to do.” Leaning forward, Amstell’s arms waggle over the table to make his point. “If you made a film about my life, the biggest arc would be growing up in Essex and getting into television – that’s the journey. Really, the credits roll when I’m 21 years old. But I didn’t die and so I keep having to come up with new things to do because the horror of being at a party and that question.” What question? “‘What are you up to at the moment?’ If we didn’t have that question, we wouldn’t do anything! That question! ‘What do you do?!” He yelps.
Three years ago, it seemed clear that Amstell was on the verge of breaking the US. His shows in New York sold out, he did well on the late-night talkshow circuit; the next step might feasibly have been Hollywood or a HBO show. His manager sent him for auditions, which Amstell invariably found uncomfortable and eventually put a stop to. “What I discovered about myself is that I really like being in charge,” he says. “Much more than wanting to be cast as the skinny Jew in something, I’d rather be the guy who is directing the thing he has written that there is a connection to.” The plan now, he says, is to write and perform a standup show every couple of years and alternate that with writing and directing films.
“It took a while to figure out why to continue what I was doing,” he explains. “Because the ability to do standup comedy began as a defence mechanism about an inability to experience intimacy with one person at a time. So to now allow myself to be vulnerable enough to experience love … ” He breaks off, to think about how his sentence will work in print. “Suddenly, there is an energy missing,” he starts again. “There was a driving force in me before that needed a lot of applause quite often. It wasn’t there any more and I really had to reconfigure myself.”
Being prone to both acute self-awareness and control freakery has served him well, though. Amstell always seems to have to cut loose from a project far earlier than his audience are ready for and so never really outstays his welcome or risks over-exposure. The main reason, he reckons, is boredom. “Once I know how a format works, it’s very difficult for me to stay within that format,” he says. Standup remains the exception but everything else becomes unnecessary noise unless it’s original and makes him laugh: “If something is inauthentic or not funny, I feel a bit sick.” Plus, as he’s now in the comfortable position to point out: “I don’t have to think of a TV project that doesn’t mean anything to me. I can wait till something bubbles up.”
In the case of Carnage, the BBC came to him asking if he had any ideas – “and I had an idea! I had one in my pocket!” – and gave him relative freedom and control to do what he liked. So he arrived at a future utopia in 2067, where depression is defeated by intimacy, violence is destroyed by compassion – and everyone is vegan. Made as a spoofy documentary with turns from Linda Bassett (Grandma from Grandma’s House), Martin Freeman, Joanna Lumley and grime rapper JME, Carnage makes tonal nods to Chris Morris and Louis Theroux; real archival footage of, say, vegans from the 70s being interviewed about their diet is cut alongside clips of Jamie Oliver moaning about “thick-as-shit parents”. The Best in Show-style scripted set-ups are awkwardly funny, satirising “the time people got upset when their pets died – and when other animals died, they ate them”. And there are relentless jokes at the expense of veganism, a surprise if only because Amstell himself is a committed vegan. “That sounds horrific, though,” he says, looking appalled. “A committed vegan!” He honks. “I’m just a … I think it’s best if we go for: ‘Brilliant, funny person who unfortunately happens to be vegan.’ Ha ha ha ha!”
As it is, he says he’s spent the last nine months sequestered making Carnage and now there is a new tour – What Is This? – coming up. He says that standup is the best way for him to reveal all the worst, most embarrassing parts of himself and feel freer, lighter. “I’m telling the truth each time. That’s what it will always be about and if that’s worth anything, I think I’ll have a career that keeps going.” It’s why, for instance, he says Grandma’s House did its run of two series and stopped. “I felt like I’d told the story and … nobody disagreed. What I could have done is make a very entertaining third series that, for me, wouldn’t have done anything. I feel like I wouldn’t have revealed anything more, there was no more healing to be done in that subject area.”
So, is being funny alone never enough? Does his comedy still need to act as a form of therapy? “The things I loved growing up, like Roseanne, actually said something about actual human beings,” he says. “I really loved her for speaking to people that didn’t have much of a voice. That excites me. Although I’m very excited by comedy, obviously, because it’s sort of what I do.” He giggles: “Although it depends who you ask.”
He talks about being excited rather than daunted by doing his live show in the US this time around. He wants to take what he calls the Eddie Izzard route: perform in a small theatre in New York every night for a couple of months until people notice. Last time he tried it he was still riddled with anxiety and his ego’s need “to get somewhere off the back of doing shows”. He forgot that performing had been his original ambition. “Somebody told me [back then]: ‘You’re doing your own show in New York every night. If you’re not happy now, you’ll never be happy.’ And I thought: ‘I’ll never be happy.’”
Except now he is. And it’s a lovely, if quieter thing – the more relaxed Amstell, liberated from the neediness of ego, competitiveness and insecurity. “I’m not interested in doing a thing just for the sake of making my name and face well known,” he says.
Having spent a portion of his very early career chasing fame, Amstell’s relationship with it now is significantly more laidback, a natural consequence of the realisation that it couldn’t “fix” him. “It’s a very sweet spot for me now,” he says. “I can be anonymous enough to be in a restaurant and have a delightful time with the person I’m with, but not so anonymous that somebody in that restaurant won’t tell me something I’ve done is brilliant.” He knows it sounds ridiculous, but it’s also his honest truth.
Carnage is available from 19 Mar, 9pm, BBC iPlayer
I was there. Standing, weeping, with everyone else, in a boggy field in Somerset, because Radiohead were on stage expressing our millennial anxiety so perfectly and so beautifully. Can it really have been 20 years ago? And did the Guardian really give OK Computer only four stars?
The People’s History of Pop (BBC4), the occasional series about music fandom, has reached its final chapter, 1997-2010. And it’s presented by Sara Cox, because this was her time.
It’s the best yet – and not just because of Coxy, who’s brilliant as ever, or because of the music, though some of that is very special (from Thom Yorke and co at Glastonbury to east London grime via Amy Winehouse, RIP, the Libertines and UK garage). It’s because this was the era that the internet brought music fans closer to their idols, broke down barriers, put fans on stage – or else in Pete Doherty’s living room.
“We’re on the cusp of something exhilarating and terrifying,” said David Bowie, in a 1999 interview with Jeremy Paxman. It’s amazingly prescient: the man was a wizard as well as a genius.
Out of this breakdown – of them and us into just us – come lovely stories. Like the fan called Moray, whose letter of support to a magazine persuaded his favourite band, Travis, not to jack it all in after some harsh reviews. He was repaid, many years later, when lead singer Fran Healy made a surprise appearance at his wedding.
And we meet recently widowed retired bank clerk Jane, whose life was given a new purpose by Pop Idol, because it was something to look forward to; and Sally whose deaf dad had a dance with Amy Winehouse in a Camden pub; and Omar, who was at the very centre of the Arctic Monkeys buzz. And Ronan and Glenn, who were dragged up on stage by Adele.
It’s a refreshing change from the usual Friday-night BBC4 music doc. No music journos, showing off their vast vinyl collections and encyclopaedic knowledge. No musicians even, picking out chords or dropping names. Or producers filmed at their massive mixing desks.
Here, it’s just regular fans, with their memorabilia and their memories. It’s human, touching, personal and meaningful, the way pop music should be.
There’s a scene in the 1988 movie The Princess Bride in which Westley (Cary Elwes) makes a noise described as “the sound of ultimate suffering”. For a family comedy, it’s pretty intense; it’s a raw sound – an animal in anguish – and not played for laughs.
Of course a howl is not the only way to telegraph pain and despair. Similarly eloquent is music, and I have not heard anything in recent years quite as expressive as British musician Sampha. His voice is unique, and I can listen to it for hours on end.
Born into a Sierra Leonean-British family in London, Sampha Sisay, 28, is prolific. I first heard him on Valentine, a track he made with Jessie Ware. I remember feeling startled by the sound of his voice: it’s airy, but somehow packed with emotion; every lyric comes across as deeply felt. He kept popping up over the years: with SBTRKT, another Ware collaboration, then Drake, Kanye West and Solange. His evocative voice lends itself faultlessly to lyrics that conjure yearning and love and loss. When he sings the hook on Saint Pablo (“And you’re lookin’ at the church in the night sky/Wonderin’ whether God’s gonna say hi”), he elevates the preceding verse to a grand philosophical and existential plane. Nobody’s voice swoops more elegantly and mournfully.
On his new (and somewhat uneven) record, Process, he sounds even more intense. The stunning (No One Knows Me) Like The Piano, Sampha is a meditation on home and hurt, and the death of his mother in 2015 (“They said that it’s her time, no tears in sight, I kept the feelings close”).
Sampha’s voice wrecks me every time, but I love him dearly for it.
In which Geri Horner, AKA Ginger Spice, revisits the 1990s, the decade when she cavorted in a union flag and helped launch girl power at the wider world. The title, consciously or not calling to mind Nelson Mandela’s Long Walk, is perhaps a trifle tasteless, but Geri has quite some personal and pop culture story to tell as she recalls her Cool Britannia years. Wallow in the nostalgia: back then, things could only get better … JW
Affable trainer Graeme “The Dogfather” Hall says he can make any dog behave, but after some of the furry menaces he encounters here he might eat his words. There’s a whopping great dane who likes to intimidate people, a food-stealing labrador and a poodle who’s jealous of his owner’s boyfriend. Can the dogs and their owners be trained? If you prefer your canines a little better behaved, it’s the final of Crufts this weekend, too. HV
No stone has gone unturned to help SNT capture the essence of the classic variety shows it aims to emulate. Tonight, Steps join the pair for the karaoke-with-peril segment Singalong Live and there’s another episode of miniseries The Missing Crown Jewels. Starring Emilia Fox and Joanna Lumley as chiefs of secret organisation The Honoured, it’s an excuse for plenty of cameo appearances, and is actually quite a lot of fun. JR
The live knockout stages of the relocated talent show continue. This week, Will.i.am is the coach seeking to halve his current stable of six hopefuls via one-on-one sing-offs. Public voting will decide the top two talents who progress to the next phase, with the third survivor selected by the pragmatic cyber-pop omni-mogul himself. Heartstring-tugging backstories are unlikely to help in this regard; the Black Eyed Peas man rarely gets sentimental. GV
There’s a certain deadpan naturalism about the delivery of Scandinavian dramas that lends them a superior air of authenticity, but this Danish drama about criminal activity in the renewable energies business is a touch too dry for some. This week, Claudia has a breakthrough in her search for employment, tensions arise between Nicky and Bimse following the assault case, while the Fraud Squad start to unravel the dubious activities of the Nova Bank. DS
For a few weeks each year, the lives of Botswana’s big cats are upended by the wet season’s violent storms. Adapted to the dry plains and unsettled by the weather and the changing landscape – the youngest have never seen rain before – leopards, lions and cheetahs struggle to hunt effectively. But they do not have the luxury of waiting out the rains, leaving them fighting for survival. Sadly, lovely photography clashes with an irritating voiceover. BA
Louis Ferrante’s world tour of organised crime arrives in Poland, on the trail of the notorious Grypsers. Rising to prominence following the fall of communism, the Grypser gang now dominate the Polish underworld. Ferrante connects with gang members, visits the notorious Nowogard Prison, meeting former mobsters-turned-informers and a Grypser amphetamine cook. In short, enough material to terrify a Daily Mail reader for weeks. MGJ
The Red Shoes, (Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger, 1948), 1.30pm, BBC2The melodramatic tale of Moira Shearer’s ballet student, torn between the conflicting demands of her art (personified by Anton Walbrook’s autocratic impresario) and love for composer-husband Marius Goring, is one of P&P’s finest. A stunning study of the world of ballet, with mesmerising dances and Oscar-winning designs. Paul Howlett
Room, (Lenny Abrahamson, 2015), 9pm, Channel 4A woman and her son are locked in a 10 sq ft room for years by a psychotic captor: it’s the stuff of modern gothic horror, but Abrahamson directs so skilfully that it becomes a life-affirming parable of the triumph of the human spirit, and of maternal love. He’s helped by extraordinary performances from Brie Larson as Ma and Jacob Tremblay as the five-year-old Jack, for whom the squalid world of “Room” is entirely normal. PH
Land of the Dead, (George A Romero, 2005), 10pm, SyfyThis late addition to Romero’s zombie trilogy is as stomach-churningly gruesome a satire as you could hope for. The monsters still lurch and munch on body parts, but now the survivors are split between the well-protected capitalists, led by the scenery-chomping Dennis Hopper, and the poor, endangered drones who service them: zombie horror for the post-9/11, down-with-Bush era. PH
FA Cup Football: Middlesbrough v Manchester City 11.45am, BT Sport 2 Guardiola’s City visit struggling Middlesbrough in the Cup.
Six Nations Rugby Union: England v Scotland 3.30pm, ITV The leaders play at Twickenham. Preceded by Italy v France.
Boxing: Craig Kennedy v Stephen Simmons 10.15pm, Channel 5 A bout for the British cruiserweight title from Motorpoint Arena in Cardiff.
Justin Bieber, 23 as of a week ago, has sins to confess. About $158m in earnings can’t hide the fact that the Purpose World Tour, his largest to date, doubles as a public apology tour. Bieber used to sing about puppy love, making promises to girls. These days, he sings about breaking them.
Melbourne’s Etihad Stadium is packed – almost to its 54,000 capacity – with three generations of Beliebers. Yesteryear’s tween girls have grown up, and a new crop have joined them, accompanied by surprisingly eager parents.
But for the first time, there are young men in attendance, wearing shirts emblazoned BIEBER without a hint of irony. Bieber’s 2015 album Purpose, led by EDM-pop collaborations with Skrillex and Diplo, not only rejuvenated his career – it made him cool. There’s no question he takes his music seriously – on Friday night, he plays 15 songs from Purpose, and only four from 2013 or earlier. He’s finally dispelled the myth that his talent was ever manufactured.
The lights go down; a collective scream rolls across the crowd. “I don’t want to live a lie”, he pleads, delivering Mark My Words from inside a glass cube. I’ll Show You, too, traps him in a UFC-like octagon cage, as fiery LED projections swarm around him. Is Justin Bieber a futurist? The hyper-modern backdrops, lasers and fireworks are worth the price of admission alone. It’s the most expensive staging money can buy, for a young multimillionaire’s songs about emotional detachment in the digital era.
It’s been five years since his voice broke, but Bieber still hasn’t fully grown into his adult voice. He’s never sounded as nimble as when we first saw him, a 13-year-old prodigy wailing Justin Timberlake songs on YouTube. His lower register, noticeably aged, occasionally dips into a reedy, nasal tone. But in the right setting, he still sounds angelic.
Where Are Ü Now is an early highlight – a gorgeous, secular prayer for companionship that culminates not in a chorus, but a wild dance break. But two Hillsong-influenced piano ballads – Purpose, Life Is Worth Living – make the show’s Christian themes explicit. Bieber sings them like he’s still searching for redemption every night. His younger fans know every word; the older ones go to buy drinks.
Justin sings Love Yourself, his Ed Sheeran-penned breakup song, alone with an acoustic guitar – and for the first time, the audience is truly hushed. Love Yourself encapsulates his persona: the wounded asshole who’s too charming to hate. The song’s written about an ex-girlfriend, but he directs its vitriol at himself, as if he’s alone in the stadium. But the mostly female crowd flips it around, singing it back at him with affection. Other performers would smile back, or at least react – but Justin looks as lonely as ever.
Bieber’s voice doesn’t project outward, it pulls you in toward him. His natural environment isn’t anthemic dance-pop, but smooth R&B. His best singles blend drama with intimacy, but live shows are an uphill battle. As the stadiums get larger, genuine emotional connection becomes more difficult. His band, talented as they are, compete for attention – adding prog-rock drum fills and guitar solos to songs that call for restraint.
The louder the volume, the more detached Bieber comes across as a performer. It’s not just that he rarely smiles; it’s that no one knows what to make of it. Is he having an off day? Has he lost the joy in performing, or is his James Dean pout his default expression? Are we reading too much into it?
Bieber’s early pop songs – including Baby, which he performs tonight – are straightforward rushes of emotion. His recent singles – Sorry, What Do You Mean – aren’t so simple. They interrogate his failed relationships with women, his masculine self-loathing, and toy with our sympathies toward him – all over buoyant dance beats. There are more virtuosic singers, and certainly more likeable celebrities, but none have Bieber’s gift for pathos.
The show has one truly odd moment. After playing Love Yourself, Bieber noodles around on his guitar, as if feeling out the chords to the next song. An army of musicians, dancers, sound and lighting technicians await his cue, but he’s lost himself in his guitar. But seconds later, he abruptly stands up – “right, thank you” – and jumps straight back into another choreographed electropop song.
Would he rather be somewhere else? Is this his only escape from the meticulous routine of a modern pop show? Or maybe it doesn’t mean anything at all. That’s Justin Bieber in 2017: distant, intimate, inscrutable, fascinating.
The “Good People” is a term of appeasement. In Irish folklore it is believed that the fairy folk walk among us, living in a parallel world humans cannot see – unless they are chosen to see it. “Fairy” has come to have a Disney sound; hear the word and it’s hard to banish an image of Tinkerbell from your mind. Banish that image. For the Other Folk (the Fair Folk, the Good Neighbours) are rarely benign; best to speak well of them, lest they become displeased. “The Good People watch us with a kind of knowing that can undo a man,” says Nance Roche in Hannah Kent’s second novel. Sometimes they will reward those who please them; but their punishment can come with little provocation. “Sometimes ’tis all unreason and no knowing why things are as they are, except to say ’tis the fairies behind it and they have their own intentions.”
The Good People is set in the south-west of Ireland in 1825 and 1826 – a place and a time not so far removed from the early 19th-century Iceland of her award-winning first novel, Burial Rites. Both are places of poverty and superstition, where characters are forced to look for explanations beyond the world they can see; both are places where the forces of modernity and change press hard upon tradition, and those who cling to the old ways can pay a heavy price. Both take their inspiration from actual events, and both are attempts to give voice to people who have often been voiceless.
The novel begins with hardship and sorrow – and much more will follow. Nóra Leahy’s grown daughter has died, leaving Nóra to care for her little boy, Micheál. As the book begins, poor Nóra’s husband dies too, struck down suddenly, a run of misfortune that leads some of her neighbours to believe that the supernatural is at work – not least because Nóra’s grandson, while apparently born a perfectly healthy child, is now mute and crippled, his ravening hunger never sated, his howling cries never silenced. Nance is the local healer, her presence in the community both required and reviled; the new priest, Father Healy, wishes to stamp out her heathen practice. But to Nóra, Nance’s charms offer the best hope of a cure for Micheál.
As with Burial Rites, there is no arguing with the diligence of Kent’s research, or indeed with her good intent. Unfortunately, however, her storytelling cannot sustain either her research or her intention. Characters are too weighed down by their circumstances to ever move beyond stereotypes. Nóra is a grieving woman battered by fate, but she has no room to be anything more than that. Nance Roche is a witchy woman living in a tumbledown cottage at the edge of the village, sustained by milk from her goat and her knowledge of plants and local lore – what else would we expect? Father Healy is stern, with a love of God that seems most unloving; again, as the reader might expect. There is a missed opportunity in Mary, the servant girl Nóra picks up at a hiring fair to help look after the house and care for little Micheál; red-headed Mary forms a greater bond with the little boy than Nóra ever has, but why this should be is never truly examined, and it leads to the result the reader will expect. This is a book of few surprises.
Which is a shame. Kent is a good descriptive writer: when Mary sees Micheál she observes him carefully, seeing that his skin “was tight and dry, and there was a thinness to it, like the pages of a priest’s holy book. He had nothing of the round-cheeked softness of the children Mary knew.” But it is as if Kent cannot decide whether to imaginatively enter the world of the Good People – or, conversely, tackle the larger social issues that give rise to the circumstances in which these characters live. The title of the novel, which asks the reader to question just who the good people in question might be, offers more than the writer can finally deliver.
Erica Wagner’s new book, Chief Engineer, will be published by Bloomsbury in June.
• The Good People by Hannah Kent is published by Picador (£14.99). To order a copy for £11.24 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
We’re now running a regular weekly photography assignment in the Observer New Review and the next theme is ‘attach.’ Share your photos of what attach means to you – and tell us about your image in the description box.
The closing date is Thursday 9 March at 10 am. We’ll publish our favourites in The New Review on Sunday 12 March and in a gallery on the Guardian site.
You can share your ‘attach’ pictures by clicking on the blue ‘Contribute’ button on this article. You can also use the Guardian app and search for ‘GuardianWitness assignments’ – and if you add it to the homepage – you can keep up with all our assignments.
You’ve called your exhibition at Yorkshire Sculpture Park A Rare Category of Objects. Why?Sculptures are rare. It’s not as if you walk down pavements dodging sculptures, do you? Sculpture is a rare use of materials. We’re in the industrial north here, where billions of tons of material are being used to make cars, pottery, books, textiles, chemicals – but how many kilos of sculpture are made today? The non-utilitarian use of material is important. Utility means limitation in the forms produced. Expedient industrial production systems produce simple geometries – a world of boring and repetitive forms. Sculpture is the opposite of that.
The park is a tremendous setting for your work…It is a magnificent institution. I don’t know anywhere else like it. This exhibition is extensive – with 14 large sculptures [made within the last 10 years] outside, 35 indoors and 80 works on paper. Today, it is dramatic here in Yorkshire: there is snow on the hills, beautiful blue skies, the sun is shining, and Atlantic clouds are scudding about. Sculpture is not only measuring itself against nature; changes in climate, time of day – all these have an effect. People can make anything, but nature has had a long time to make things complicated. If you live in nature, you have a richer vocabulary of forms in your mind.
Could you compare two works from the show – one old, one new?Minster (1990) is stacked circular objects that go three metres high, with little pinnacles. The circles used to be stacked straight, but at some point I had to fix the piece for security reasons, and realised gravity was no longer the glue. There are weldings and rods inside the structure, and the geometries took off into space. A larger work, Points of View (2013), is three – seven metres tall – columns. These are stacked, horizontal elipses. Along their tangents are drawings. There is more than 20 years between these pieces, but what they share is a geometry that takes on an emotional quality.
When I went to Germany my colleagues were people like Joseph Beuys. There was much existential bantering over lunch
Am I right in thinking that, as a little boy, you wanted to be a scientist – and does your life as a sculptor resemble a life in science?Actually, as a small boy, I wanted to work on my grandfather’s farm. I was always interested in geology. As a seven-year-old, I found a fossil that fascinated me – I still have it. My brother and I moved to a council estate in Welwyn Garden City and were given a job, by Dad, to make a path with pebbles. We found an amazing heart-shaped, flint echinoid. We thought it must have fallen from outer space. I was never a scientist, although my father was an electrical engineer who worked on Concorde. When I left school, I worked as a lowly assistant in an establishment researching rubber. Art is different from science. Science influences our lives, dictates the forms of materials around us. But science means nothing without art. Art gives everything meaning and value.
You once said: “You only learn about art by making it”…People who write will know what this means. They might think, “I’ll change that word”, or “this needs a new ending” and, eventually, they’ll write something more powerful than their original thought. If you make something with your hands, every change in line, volume, surface, silhouette, gives you a different thought or emotion. After several moves, you’re in unknown territory. Although I change material with my hands, the material itself changes my mind. It is a dialogue in which the material always has the last word.
What is most important in teaching art?I taught at the Kunstakademie Düsseldorf from 1978. The level of engagement is important. I tried to get people to find out what they really had to do. I’m glad I studied in the 60s, when you went to art school for idealistic reasons. Art has been such an enormous success over the last 30 or 40 years that today’s students, instead of following a personal path, often strategise about the best way to become successful.
What was the turning point in your career?I was at the Royal College in 1977 and invited to exhibit in the Queen’s Jubilee exhibition. I was over the moon. I’ve had a lucky life. I pinch myself regularly. But every time a work turns out that I feel excited about, that’s the real reward.
How important are your titles – Sinbad, Manipulation, Can-Can...?They’re not frivolous – although my assistant will sometimes say of a piece, “That ugly thing in the corner” – and that’s what we’ll call it.
In conversation at the American Academy in Berlin, you said everything in our heads comes from the outside world. Is there any spiritual element in your work?This is what philosophers like Heidegger talk about. Everything is material. But the material is so complicated. We’ve no idea what absolute reality looks like. I find that sublime and uplifting. It has a spiritual quality. I’m most interested in the emotional qualities of things. Every emotion has a material basis – run by hormones and nerves. But isn’t that magnificent?
You are based in Wuppertal in Germany – how did that come about?I met my first wife studying at the Royal College in London. She was from Wuppertal. I moved there with the idea of staying a year. We had a couple of kids, a divorce and I married again. I have four kids and never thought of leaving them. But I’m British, and so is my sense of humour. I’m not a nationalist. Working in France, in 1974, opened my eyes. I come from a family that did not have much opportunity to travel. I found the French dress well, have nice family relationships, eat well… There’s a hell of a lot to learn from other people. When I first went to Germany, my colleagues were people like Joseph Beuys and Gerhard Richter – we had great conversations, with much existential bantering, over lunch.
Drawing remains essential to you – why?There are endless ways of joining two spots on paper. Once you move the pencil, it becomes the most complicated, fantastic journey. It’s like modelling with clay where you could – if you were God or good enough – make limitless forms.
You talk about art as a defence against mediocrity?We use materials to impoverish form. We cut down a forest, make it into a field and, after a while, a car park. We screw up landscapes – everything has been changed by us. But sculpture? Art takes on space, makes new forms, ideas, emotions, languages, freedom. An increasing number of people have a better quality of life because art is in their life. Just think about that.
A Rare Category of Objects is now at Yorkshire Sculpture Park, until 3 September 2017
You might have certain expectations of an unsigned artist playing what is only her third ever headline show. Emerging R&B singer Ray BLK should be talking too shrilly between songs, nerves overwriting her prepared bons mots. You would bank on a few icy R&B covers as well, to pad out the running time and signpost her now-ness, and the odd glance stolen between band members. Brio would be likely to trump competence.
Instead, Ray BLK – it’s actually “black”, not “bee-ell-kay” – strides on stage like a lioness, every inch the finished article. Tossing ropes of hair, hitting all the notes with ease, the winner of the BBC’s Sound of 2017 poll is playing what already feels like a greatest hits set with a band who can segue between hip-hop breakbeats and jazzy licks before throwing back to 90s US R&B.
It’s actually startling how fresh it feels to hear an R&B singer being frank about desire
The industry metric declares that Ray has yet to release a debut album – Durt, from 2016, was technically a mini-album – but all the important decisions have been made, and made soundly, without the input of a major label. Ray mostly sings, but, like her lodestar Lauryn Hill before her, it’s with a reflexive command of hip-hop in her cadences, and truth-telling in her sights. The covers the south Londoner does choose aren’t at all current, but two vintage, girl-positive crowd-pleasers – Say My Name by Destiny’s Child and Don’t Let Go by En Vogue. Although the 90s clearly loom large in Ray BLK’s iTunes – one song, Hunny, starts its second verse with a lift from Lauryn Hill – her own tunes are fiercely local. BLK sings pointedly about “caffs not cafes”.
Her influences range far. Those hard-hitting urban antiheroes the Cardigans crop up at the start of the excellent 5050, a skeletal half-sung, half-rapped tour de force: “Love me, love me, say that you love me,” Ray sings, “’cos if you ain’t trying to wife me you need to get off my line.” There are no forced transatlantic compromises, the better to sell in a North American market, just Ray expressing lust, love and points in between.
BLK sorts the boys from the men, from the friends with benefits; some, she’ll only see “on a Friday/ with some high-grade” (Chill Out). It’s actually startling how fresh it feels to hear an R&B singer being frank about desire and nonchalant about ill-defined hook-ups, rather than merely expressing a kind of rote sexiness. Breezy set opener Westside Story lists locations where Ray and her love interest might do the dirty: the sofa, the kitchen, the garden, the roof, the Uber. Her music, meanwhile, is both synth-y and contemporary – thanks to young producers such as Aston Rudi and SG Lewis, who guests on Chill Out – and confidently classic.
Such is BLK’s stature already, she can command not one but two grime superstars to come along and lay down their verses next to her. Veteran rapper Wretch 32 is in the house for Gone, a sparring duet in which two parties examine the end of a relationship. At its close, Wretch praises “my little sister, my compadre, my next-door neighbour, my friend, my everything”. It’s a pretty accurate description of BLK’s strengths: Ray’s songs are direct and candid, and her no-bullshit demeanour leaves plenty of latitude for warmth. Her songs tend to tell stories about women like her, full of specifics yet reaching for universals all the while.
The “caffs not cafes” line comes from My Hood, BLK’s finest and most nagging tune to date. It features fellow south Londoner Stormzy, whose album is now at No 1.
When the MC comes on for his verse, the place becomes a sea of smartphone screens, topped with a light surf of pure joy, one of those moments where you can actually feel invisible cogs turning as one possible future becomes the present. Together, the two of them sing the praises of their gritty “ends”, turning south London into a place of bittersweet fable. You could rank My Hood alongside Adele’s Hometown Glory as a London anthem, but tonight it actually has something of the grandeur of Empire State of Mind by Jay Z and Alicia Keys. Stormzy isn’t just phoning it in on the way to an awards ceremony, either – he sings along with Ray’s parts, she raps along with his and at the end, they hug like actual friends who have twigged their moment has arrived.
Following my somewhat sniffy review of Gurinder Chadha’s uneven 2010 supernatural comedy It’s a Wonderful Afterlife, several British Asian viewers contacted me to say that the film was far funnier and more affecting than I had allowed, but required specific cultural knowledge (which I lacked) to be fully appreciated. Quite the opposite is true of Viceroy’s House, Chadha’s heartfelt and very personal drama about the traumas of partition, which strives to dramatise the epochal events of 1947 for the widest possible audience, including those who know nothing of the independence of India or the creation of Pakistan.
Cynics may complain that the resulting drama plays to the gallery as it personalises complex politics with its broad-stokes characters and Gosford Park-style heritage appeal. Yet despite an oddly underdeveloped Romeo and Juliet romance at the heart of its multiple storylines, I found myself increasingly gripped by Chadha’s handsome period drama – impressed by the accessibility of its history-primer narrative, entertained by its warm wit and occasionally boisterous charm, and moved by its melodramatic contrivances, which turn out to be more rooted in fact that one might imagine.
Gillian Anderson has ripe fun as Edwina Mountbatten, sporting an accent somewhere between HM and Mrs T
Downton Abbey mainstay Hugh Bonneville is very much on home ground as Lord Mountbatten, the last viceroy appointed by George VI to oversee the peaceful transfer of power from Britain to India. In the employ of his titular Delhi household are Hindus, Sikhs and Muslims, providing the prism through which the story of partition is refracted. Downstairs, Manish Dayal’s handsome Jeet pines for Huma Qureshi’s Aalia (“a Hindu boy like you and a Muslim girl!”), their putative romance becoming a symbolic microcosm of the divide-and-rule conflict playing out across the country. Upstairs, politicians and dignitaries argue about the fate of a nation, with Mountbatten portrayed as an increasingly powerless patsy, an unwitting pawn in this imperial game.
“Division doesn’t create peace,” says Neeraj Kabi’s Gandhi, “it creates havoc.” Taking their lead from Narendra Singh Sarila’s book The Shadow of the Great Game, Chadha and co-writers Paul Mayeda Berges and Moira Buffini cast Churchill as the secretive architect of this havoc, opportunistically fostering Pakistan as a strategic counterbalance to a left-leaning India. “We didn’t defeat the Nazis and the Japs to give away the shop to the Soviets!” exclaims Michael Gambon’s General Hastings Ismay, acting on furtive instructions “from the top” that will leave Mountbatten carrying the can for Britain’s ignoble endeavours.
Not so much signposting as trumpeting its contemporary references (“You divided India for oil?”), Viceroy’s House presents a refugee crisis driven by political duplicity, intertwining Movietone newsreels depicting the horrendous human cost of conflict with the unspooling drama. It is impossible, too, to avoid making connections with rushed Brexit deadlines as parties hurry towards a divisive future in double-quick time. No wonder Simon Callow’s owlish legal eagle Cyril Radcliffe is racked with guilt at being forced to draw “a bloody axe cleaving right through people’s lives”.
In the face of such solemnity, Gillian Anderson has ripe fun with the role of Edwina Mountbatten, sporting an accent somewhere between HM and Mrs T as she declares that her new home “makes Buckingham Palace look like a bungalow”. Diplomatically sidestepping her infamous infidelities (there’s scarcely a whiff of flirtation with Tanveer Ghani’s Nehru), Edwina is portrayed as an outspoken voice of conscience, airily firing those who are disrespectful to the local staff and impressing upon her husband the need to address illiteracy and infant mortality among what Churchill calls “primitive Indians”.
There’s a streak of cheeky humour, not least in the mutterings of a household chef who “spent a lifetime learning their cuisine” only to be told that her ladyship would like to see more Indian dishes on the table. When the house comes to be divided along the same lines as the country, Chadha finds poignant absurdity in the divvying up of its contents; from cutlery (knives and forks separated) to musical instruments (a tuba for India, a french horn for Pakistan) to books (“we’re taking Wuthering Heights and all of Austen!”). Elsewhere, the phrase “it’s worse than Glasgow on a Saturday night” is deployed to crowd-pleasing effect.
Underpinning it all is a rich AR Rahman score, as lush and lavish as cinematographer Ben Smithard’s arresting visuals. Denzil Smith catches the eye with his enigmatic portrayal of Jinnah, a role previously essayed by the likes of Christopher Lee, and the late Om Puri is effortlessly engaging as Aalia’s blind father. The real star, however, is Chadha, who has set out to make a personal-political drama with a solidly populist edge, a bold ambition for which deserves three cheers.
Time it right, and you could enter straight into the most dizzying spectacle – a million coloured circles hurtling towards you on screen. Discs flash and whirl in the darkness, accompanied by what might be the sound of distant rioting but is actually a circular saw. The furious buzz is perfectly attuned to the constant strobe. It feels like a cross between a mind game and an apocalyptic countdown.
John Latham’s Speak (1962) was screened by Pink Floyd at an early Roundhouse gig. The band even wrote a soundtrack, which the artist rejected, preferring his own tape-recorded saw. To experience this famous work in the 21st century is to feel the elasticity of time, for it is both a period piece of the early 60s and an eye-popping shock – forever young, cool and now.
Latham (1921-2006) is probably best known for getting his students at St Martins to chew up a library copy of Clement Greenberg’s detested Art and Culture and spit it out. (Their mastications, fermented and preserved in vials, belong to the Museum of Modern Art in New York.) Latham lost his job for failing to return the book in readable condition, and gained his evergreen reputation as an establishment goad. Even at his death, he was at loggerheads with Tate Britain for withdrawing from display a work that embedded copies of the Bible, Torah and Qur’an in chunks of glass. He saw their action as pusillanimous.
Latham himself was never afraid to offend. When he built – and then burned – a tower of encyclopedias, the historic resonances were clear, all the way back to Savonarola. Books were both ideas and objects to him, and he even spoke of using them as alternatives to paint. They stood, too, as instances of history, moments of time and culture briefly embodied. And time was Latham’s true subject – his perpetual medium and obsession.
The Serpentine’s long-awaited survey includes time-based paintings – pigment flicked at the canvas, the cartoon splats a measure of the rapidity with which the action took place – and several of his one-second drawings from the 1950s. Latham used a spray gun to shoot a second’s worth of black paint at a white substrate. The result is a perfect record of the event, of ejected particles moving through space, and a kind of constellation in reverse – black stars in white outer space.
Latham claimed to have made spray-gun paintings before anyone else.
Books are balled up in papier-mache orbs and suspended from the ceiling like new planets, or ancient fossils in rock. They are glued to canvases and painted black with their leaves spread open: crowds of flapping ravens trapped in a cliff. Six copies of a guide to vanished species are surgically halved and wedged into glass armatures, each containing traces of some other idea – electric wires, lightbulbs, primitive sculptures. Time is caught by the wing.
Latham lived in Flat Time House in Peckham, south London (where another pair of gigantic books – interleaved so they can never be read – still hangs in the window). His theories about time are so nebulous as to be beyond my grasp, and indeed that of several catalogue contributors, including Richard Hamilton, who confessed he had no clear idea what his friend was talking about. Latham seems to have believed that time consisted of a series of events, that space was not the measure of the universe but time, and that the chief characteristic of all art was “its extensions in time”.
This is certainly the prevailing theme at the Serpentine Gallery. There are paintings where the high-chrome stripes simply fade away – here and then gone – or explode as if shot by a bullet. Silk-screened words arrive and then vanish, shifting from the present to the past. Canvas is twisted up like a curtain, knotted to one side as if to let in new light; or hangs, spattered and torn from its frame, like some poor deflated flag. Each work speaks of the moment of its making, but also of the past and future.
Latham was a hardcore conceptualist, and some of his work is as tough to look at as it is to comprehend. “THE MYSTERIOUS BEING KNOWN AS GOD is an atemporal score, with a probable time-base in the region of 1019 seconds.” What does this mean (lettered large on the wall) if it means anything at all? Latham insisted that his art consisted of events and not images. Yet the film in which the pages of the Encyclopedia Britannica rush past at warp speed is extraordinarily expressive in visual terms, not least for being such an antique artefact in itself by now. What it shows is an Ozymandian vision of time: whole civilisations passing rapidly away.
Latham’s continuing influence on younger artists is apparent in Speak, an anthology of homages at the Serpentine Sackler Gallery that features a great variety of works, from word pieces to impromptu ping pong and billiard games to an interview with John Latham filmed by Douglas Gordon in 1999; the catalogue transcription is full of Gordon’s illuminating insights, connecting Latham’s one-second drawings, for instance, with the black page in Laurence Sterne’s Tristram Shandy.
Cally Spooner presents a wittily ludic wall drawing, in which separate lines trace her person (at chin height) against the rise and fall of the pound and the development of her own career according to the market website artfacts.net; as if time, or indeed life, were susceptible to such meaningless measurements. And the Cuban artist Tania Bruguera, reflecting on how representative art came to be distorted by Castro’s regime, explains in an absorbing film how she came to an artistic language of political gestures in the true spirit of Latham.
But most startling is Turner prize winner Laure Prouvost’s darkened chamber of glass objects, each glowing in a sudden coloured spotlight on its plinth, and each a commemoration of something vital to our daily existence: a glass of water, cheap but precious; an egg frying in a pan; a scarlet human heart. Elevated by the process of being blown in Venetian glass, they are accompanied by an abrupt son et lumière conveying the alterations of time.
Prouvost was once Latham’s studio assistant, and this is in part a remembrance of their life together, from the fruit they ate to the teabags drying on the radiator. But every object is more than itself. The installation is both a private story and a public narrative describing our human experiences in twinkling emblems; it is both moving and stunning.
• A World View: John Latham is at the Serpentine Gallery, London until 21 May. Speak is at the Serpentine Sackler Gallery, London until 21 May
Ciaran Bagnall’s set is starkly impersonal in its shiny whiteness and sculpted clean lines. Two arching struts rise up at the back of the stage and curve slightly above it. The overall image suggests giant, geometrical fallopian tubes and womb. In this clinical setting, Colin and Anne are trying to conceive. Their couplings are intimate, funny, touching – and all the more convincing for the actors remaining fully clad. Cool, scientific logic contrasts with the messiness of life throughout David Rudkin’s 1972 play – as fiercely intelligent as it is moving.
The first half focuses on the couple’s journey through the indignities of early 1970s fertility treatments: intimate medical examinations, masturbation-on-demand, the bathing of testicles in cold water, adopting a doggie position to encourage sperm to mutate ovum-wards, scheduling sex by temperature chart. Psychologically well observed and deeply affecting, Anne and Colin’s struggle to bring a new life into the world (subtly realised by Katy Cavanagh and Colin Connor, with no trace of marshmallow sentimentality) is, we gradually discover, one part of the play’s wider focus on identity and being.
Three extended monologues dominate the second half and expose connections between the couple’s particular situation and wider existential choices and responsibilities. An adoptions officer lectures potential adoptive parents about relations between children and families. Colin, returning from a family funeral in Northern Ireland, describes horrors of violence and interrogates complexities of relationships with family and native land. Anne digs up blighted potatoes and wonders about humanity’s relation with nature.
David Thacker’s elegant direction subtly emphasises interconnectedness. For instance, one character may be alone in a scene, speaking their thoughts (as they often do) directly to the audience, and meanwhile, at the edges of the stage, other cast members sit still and quiet – not directly participating, but, by their presence, implicated in coexistence.
Rudkin’s writing blends everyday exchanges, phrases of Shakespearean resonance and expressions of poetic intensity. It is direct, vibrant and uncondescending. In Ashes, he sows seeds of ideas and trusts the audience to see them germinate.
• At the Octagon theatre, Bolton, until 11 March
Robert Icke is one of the most important forces in today’s theatre. He blew the dust from Oresteia and made 1984 newly penetrating. Now he and Andrew Scott give us a terrific modern-dress Hamlet. Full of ideas but not manacled to a concept. The originality is a question of pitch and pace and breath. It is as if the lungs of the play are different. Every moment of the text rings with significance.
Scott is convulsed with emotion on a small stage. From the beginning he is emphatic, tipping easily from fury into tears, a windmill of small gestures, pointing to his eyes when he talks of weeping. He is on the brink of being too much. But then Hamlet is too much – for himself. Scott, spilling over with emotion, continually moves in unexpected directions. Away from lucidity, towards illusion, and suddenly dipping into laconic humour. In an inspired moment, on the eve of his death he sends up the idea of his fitness as a fencer.
This is one of the least declamatory of Hamlet stagings. It has extraordinary conversational ease. These characters are members of a family as well as a dynasty. They are also – again unusually – in the grip of love. Gertrude and Claudius are intoxicated with each other. Entwined on a sofa, they have to be woken to receive an ambassadorial visitor. Ophelia flings herself into her loving father’s arms. Hamlet sobs on Ophelia’s shoulder.
Dylan songs thread though the action like the voice of a goblin damned
Angus Wright is an exquisitely subtle Claudius, using his great height slowly to uncoil himself. Juliet Stevenson’s Gertrude is fervent and finely calibrated. As Ophelia, Jessica Brown Findlay actually makes the mad scene work. She is in a wheelchair, rigid-limbed and staring. There is no Scarborough Fair sweetness about her herb handouts. She hits herself; she hates her life.
Could this – given the unforgiving nature of the Almeida seats – be a little shorter than four hours. Possibly. Yet it is hard to see where, apart perhaps from the extended dumbshow, it would profit from a tuck. Could it be more three-dimensional and searching? Scarcely.
Dylan songs thread through the action like the voice of a goblin damned. The great designer Hildegard Bechtler divides the stage with sliding doors, their opalescent green giving a hint of aquarium. At the beginning these separate the brooding Hamlet from a fairy-light waltzing court. At the end – in a brilliant touch – they become a different frontier. Patrolled by the Ghost.
This may be a small space but it has a long reach. There’s a touch of Scandi-noir and a touch of The Bridge in the bulletins from Fortinbras’s Norway, relayed on giant video screens. But modern tech-y touches go well beyond the modish. The Ghost is seen through surveillance cameras, making his way through a puddled vaulted space: when he disappears, the screens fizz as if a big brain is malfunctioning. During “The Mousetrap”, Claudius’s face is captured in closeup. The machine goes wrong and the tormented image gets stuck there, flickering anguish above the stage. Claudius abruptly walks away from the play within a play. The action pauses. It looks for a moment as if something has gone wrong with the production. The audience is left in as much doubt as Hamlet himself.
Jason Lytle’s two solo records rarely strayed too far from the template he’d perfected as Grandaddy frontman –synth-infused symphonic indie shot through with a nagging sense of unease – so the band’s first album in 11 years seems like a seamless continuation. Jed the 4th is a sequel to 2000’s heartbreaking Jed the Humanoid, and familiar themes of loss and loneliness recur throughout, most notably on the bleakly beautiful This Is the Part and I Don’t Wanna Live Here Anymore (the latter an autobiographical take on Lytle’s relocation from Montana to Oregon). Ultimately, though, for all its emotional tug, Last Place is solid rather than spectacular, with nothing quite matching the peaks of their first two albums.
In September 2016, Julie Cunningham became the first recipient of the Leverhulme choreography fellowship, which helps professional dancers to become full-time working choreographers. Cunningham trained at the Rambert school, then spent 10 years dancing for Merce Cunningham (no relation) in New York before returning to Britain to join Michael Clark’s company, where her performances won her a Critics’ Circle award. This week, at the Barbican in London, she launches her own four-strong company with a choreographic double bill, To Be Me.
Can you tell me how the new work came about?The first piece is set to a recording of poetry read by Kate Tempest. I saw her perform at Glastonbury in 2015, and when I got home I bought the audiobook of her collection Hold Your Own, a reworking of the ancient Greek myth of Tiresias. I loved its rhythm, Kate’s voice, and the way she used her breath. I knew a bit about Tiresias, that he was turned into a woman for seven years by the gods, and then blinded but given the gift of insight. I liked the idea of changing from one sex to another. Of knowing what it’s like to be another.
Does that idea have personal resonance for you?I’m gay, and my experience of the world is not represented on the dance stage. Gender is a social construct. It doesn’t exist – it’s just a box. The body is unstable, constantly changing. This is me today. This piece is how I see the world.
Everyone wanted Merce’s attention; stress levels were high. You never felt you were good enough
How did you become a dancer?I was born in Liverpool, and went to after-school classes. I did ballet, modern, jazz and tap – I was the world’s worst tapper. In my early teens I wanted to be a ballet dancer. I was pretty obsessed with Darcey Bussell and Sylvie Guillem. Then when I was 14, I saw a documentary about Merce Cunningham. I’d never seen anything like it. No music in rehearsal – what is this? I wanted to write to Cunningham and ask: how do I join your company?
But you went on to join a ballet company.Yes, briefly. I trained at the Rambert school, and when I was 21 joined a company in Koblenz in Germany. For six months I danced Sleeping Beauty in a tutu, with my hair in a bun. I was a fairy, and I didn’t feel like myself at all. Ballet dancers want to look beautiful all the time; they have a real problem with imperfection. I ended up in Paris at the same time as Merce Cunningham’s company were there on tour. I took class with them, and it turned out they needed an understudy. Two weeks later I was flying to New York with a suitcase. They told me it was just for four weeks, but it turned out to be 10 years.
That must have been an adventure.Yes, within a week I was working with Merce on new material. I was so amazed this was happening to me. Even if this goes no further, I told myself, I’ll never forget this experience. I apartment-hopped, cat-sat and scrambled around. I lived in Brooklyn, and then moved to Harlem. But we were on tour a lot of the time. I remember dancing in Paris at the Palais Garnier, with its steeply raked stage. And performing Ocean at the Roundhouse in London – that was amazing. Within the company it was very competitive though. Everyone wanted Merce’s attention; stress levels were high. You never felt you were good enough; it wasn’t what was said but what was not said. People were hard on themselves; it was a punishing environment. Merce was just doing what he wanted to do, using the people he wanted, and that caused tension. Eventually I got an injury, and my lumbar spine was in spasm for six months.
Every dancer’s nightmare.I couldn’t dance for a year, so I studied at New York City University. Physics, chemistry and biology – I still have five credits. And then Michael Clark came knocking at my door in 2012. I stayed with his company for three years, and then started choreographing and performing in my own work. I’m 37 now and still consider myself a dance artist.
Can you describe your process?It’s about finding new ways of moving. The translation of feelings into quality of movement. I’m consciously not making pieces that are gender specific. We can all do all the parts. We don’t do lifts. The traditional duet always has the woman reliant on the man, him leading and her going along with it. Even with Merce, partnering was traditionally gendered. Sexual but “pure”. I’m sick of it. I’m trying to be human, to make something that is ourselves. It’s about stripping away mannerisms and affect. So you just see the person, moving.
Wayne Parsons is a familiar figure on the UK contemporary dance scene. From Richard Alston to Shobana Jeyasingh and Mark Bruce, Parsons has performed for them all, carving confident shapes on stages large and small. For the most part this work has been abstract in nature, but last Saturday Parsons launched himself as a choreographer with a distinctive narrative voice.
His new work, Vestige, is compelling and accomplished. The piece is based on the life of Livia (Sarah Baltzinger), a fictional celebrity who has died young. We first meet Livia laid out on her hospital bed, postmortem. She awakens and performs a dreamily joyous dance, finally free. Thereafter, she weaves through the memories of those who knew her, or claimed to.
There’s her quietly distraught, upper-class husband (Ian Garside), who remembers Livia “sipping chablis by the Aga” and her “bohemian nihilism”. There’s the shrill and needy artist (Katie Lusby), who once painted Livia and is desperately attempting to establish herself as a significant player in the narrative. And there’s the hard-boiled curator (Sonya Cullingford), who is assembling the exhibition of Livia’s clothes and costumes, and thoughtfully considering “the moment the dress became a parachute. The moment she jumped, a first-attempt suicide.”
All have conflicting memories of Livia, but we sense from Parsons’s choreography, a skilful elision of speech and movement, that none of them ever had the full measure of her. As they voice their thoughts, Livia slips unseen among them, an elusive wraith. With her soft back and sensual body language, Baltzinger is an entrancing Livia, and the outstanding performer in a strong cast. She is indeed, as Lusby’s artist wistfully describes her, “a tsunami of glamour”, but Baltzinger gives her delicacy and sensibility too.
Experience of dancing in others’ productions has taught Parsons the value of collaboration, and he has chosen his team carefully. Ankur Bahl’s text is lean and expressive, while Pooja Ghai’s dramaturgy ensures clean structural lines. At 45 minutes, this is a piece cut to its essence, rather than expanded to fill a conventional “full evening” time slot. I’ve lost count of the dance works that start strongly, only to lose focus, repeat themselves and leave you wanting less.
Parsons is a hearteningly good choreographer. The double bill opens with Meeting, an abstract duet for Lusby and Parsons himself. As in Vestige, we have memories that are out of sync and that fail to dovetail. It’s a fluent enough piece, with clever knottings and unravellings, but Vestige suggests that it’s with narrative work that Parsons’s creative future lies.
If I have a quibble with the piece, it’s that I would have liked to see more movement apportioned to the versatile Cullingford, recently so sharp and articulate in Protein Dance’s May Contain Food. That said, I look forward to seeing more of Wayne Parsons Dance. If small in scale, this launch is significant in terms of promise.
“Strange” is not an adjective that slots very comfortably into the lexicon of Marvel movies. Bound by formula and conceived by committee, the comic brand’s steady supply of superhero spectacles may, in their best incarnations, merit the odd “fantastic” or “awesome” from generous fans — but strange, uncanny or unexpected they most certainly are not. And yet along comes Doctor Strange (Disney, 12), with its whoa-dude scramble of hallucinogenic imagery, a curiously aloof eponymous hero in the shape of Benedict Cumberbatch, and, just for the hell of it, Tilda Swinton as his invisibly ancient, shaven-headed mentor, spouting serene aphoristic wisdom and teaching teleportation. (OK, that’s just par for the Swinton course.) These aren’t exactly David Lynch levels of peculiarity, but it’s at least enough to merit the title Doctor Odd.
And it turns out the formula is better for a bit of curdling: this is Marvel’s spryest, most puckish big-screen outing to date, with a slightly daft sense of humour to match its daffy visuals. Narratively, it all feels a bit dashed-off. Cumberbatch is Stephen Strange, a preening New York super-surgeon who discovers literal magic in his moneyed fingertips after a career-ending accident; from then on, it’s all cod-mystic, higher-plane training in Kathmandu in pursuit of a villainous, immortality-seeking sorcerer (Mads Mikkelsen) with no particular urgency. Every detail of this claptrap plays as a mere excuse for horror-schooled director Scott Derrickson to try out another inspired effect or eye-crossing image, but his spirit of on-the-fly playfulness proves infectious. Disposable but disarming, Doctor Strange is blessed with about as much make-it-up-as-you-go-along spirit as any calculated corporate blockbuster can possibly forge.
As such, Doctor Strange shares at least one microstrand more of DNA than might have been expected with Endless Poetry (Curzon Artificial Eye, 15), the latest extravagant display of freaky ingenuity from veteran Chilean surrealist Alejandro Jodorowsky. Following on from 2013’s The Dance of Reality, this one’s also in an autobiographical vein, wonkily tracing Jodorowsky’s bohemian awakening in Santiago and Paris in the 1950s. Needless to say, biopic form isn’t in the 88-year-old film-maker’s language: this is life revised as a dream, swirling and heaving with carnivalesque caricature, swarming skeletons and, yes, a fair bit of poetry. The title seems to wittily anticipate criticism, and not unreasonably so: Jodorowsky’s vision can be exhausting, but it’s exhilarating too.
Exuberant in a far scrappier way is The Young Offenders (Signature, 15), a rumbustious but essentially gold-hearted Irish crime caper that has proven something of a phenomenon on home turf. Viewed from a distance, it doesn’t seem quite so special, but its rattling charm still translates well – thanks in chief to a pair of sparkplug performances from young leads Alex Murphy and Chris Walley. They have perfectly gobby comic coordination as best friends Conor and Jock, whose uninspiring routine of fishmonger toil and bike theft is disrupted by the loftier criminal prospect of a multimillion-euro cocaine bust off Cork’s gusty shores. Much of the quippery is standard, but delivered in a pretty irresistible vernacular.
Former throwback horror specialist Ti West delves into a different well of genre nostalgia for In a Valley of Violence (Universal, 15), a notionally old-school western that walks the walk, talks the talk and yet never feels like more than a skilled impression, with sporadic digressions into jokier territory that don’t aid our investment in the material. Ethan Hawke, as a lone drifter running foul of a sleepy border town, slouches into this territory more comfortably than John Travolta’s opposing lawman; it’s a tremendous collie named Jumpy, however, that really seizes the camera.
You may as well treat yourself to the real thing. Arrow’s gleaming new Blu-ray update of John Ford’s My Darling Clementine (Arrow, U) emphasises just how lean and clean the 1946 classic is at a narrative and stylistic level too; its moral stakes stand as stark as its burnt black-and-white landscapes.
I felt a pang of guilt last week on reading a sheaf of impassioned obituaries for Japanese B-movie auteur Seijun Suzuki, who died at the age of 93 – for as much as he meant to many of my most esteemed colleagues, I had never seen one of his films. Luckily, Mubi.com came to the rescue, and with quite an eye-opener at that: a wild-hearted hitman thriller from 1967, equally in thrall to its own pulpy yakuza tradition and the contemporary free-jazz styling of Jean-Luc Godard, Branded to Kill is an immediately arresting introduction. Enjoy the ride first; mourn later.
With her sixth feature, Kelly Reichardt more than ever feels like a director who is using cinema in a way that is wonderfully at odds with our expectations for the medium. While mainstream cinema often feels like an assault, pinning us back in our seats, and her arthouse contemporaries tend to prefer showy gestures and directorial techniques that declaim themselves, Reichardt’s low-key, intimate films draw us in. Her work is subtle, deliberately anti-dramatic. Her approach goes beyond naturalism and lands somewhere between painful introversion and acute empathy. As such, Certain Women won’t appeal to everyone.
But for those who connect with Reichardt’s approach – and I count myself among them – the film is a minor miracle. Based on the writing of Maile Meloy, it is loosely a triptych of stories in which nothing much happens, full of expressive moments in which nothing is said, but which somehow convey an ache of longing or a small stab of triumph. The tales don’t so much intersect as brush against each other. They unfold in the small-town American northwest and feature four women, who each, in their own way, have something of the unvarnished pioneer spirit that fascinated Reichardt in Meek’s Cutoff (2010).
Laura Dern plays a lawyer wrestling with a troublesome client who seems to view her as an emotional crutch as well as a professional adviser. Michelle Williams, Reichardt’s regular collaborator, is a high-achieving wife and mother designing a weekend retreat in the hills who only subliminally realises the extent of the estrangement between her and the rest of her family. And the extraordinary Lily Gladstone plays a rancher, raised among boys and animals, who doesn’t fully understand what it is she feels when she blunders into a night school legal class and meets the browbeaten teacher, a crumpled, washed-out Kristen Stewart. It’s this final segment, with its melancholy rhythms and lovely, textured performances from Stewart and Gladstone, that elevates the film into the unassuming masterpiece that it is.
This British debut (the director previously worked in TV) has something of the oppressive threat of the similarly themed Australian drama Animal Kingdom. Both stories are set against the unpredictable outlaw backdrop of a crime dynasty; both explore the near impossibility of escaping from an environment that both supports and suffocates. But what sets Trespass Against Us apart is the fact that its milieu, the Traveller community, is one rarely seen outside Gypsy wedding-style TV series.
There are tonal inconsistencies – the ending in particular seems inappropriately wacky and absurd. But the tricky bond between Brendan Gleeson’s looming patriarch Colby Cutler, a personality so strong that he can – and does – convince his family that the world is flat, and his son Chad (Michael Fassbender) is nicely handled. Chad would prefer to raise his kids outside a world where crime is a career and an evening’s entertainment involves chucking pressurised containers on to a bonfire. But he knows that society is unlikely to welcome a semi-literate habitual thief into its midst.
Fronted by British-Nigerian vocalist Eno Williams, the eight-piece band deliver a bold, exhilarating follow-up to their self-titled debut album. Lyrics are sung in part-English, part-Nigerian language Ibibio over a high-spirited mix of afrobeat, electro, rock, funk and disco. Overall the blend of styles is refreshing and well balanced, although on Joy the mishmash of synths and guitar solos sounds crowded. The vibrant Williams holds her own in busy arrangements, but her voice is at its most sonorous when accompanied by few instruments on the stripped-back Quiet. An exciting listen, but the group’s uplifting energy and brilliant instrumentalists (including renowned Ghanaian guitarist Alfred Bannerman) are probably best experienced live.
A teenage boy finds religion, causing waves through his school in contemporary Russia. Slightly strident in tone, but unnervingly timely, this slow-burning drama works as a small-scale satire of the rise of extremist rightwing views and religious intolerance. Director Kirill Serebrennikov employs elegantly choreographed, long, unbroken takes to absorbing and sometimes uncomfortable effect, as Veniamin (Pyotr Skvortsov) mounts a concerted assault against his liberally inclined science teacher.
There is a theatricality to the film that can feel a little overbearing at times – it’s hard to sympathise with the grandstanding central character – but this is forceful and provocative film-making.
Previous Wolverine screen outings suddenly feel a little fluffy and domesticated next to the feral rage of Logan. This is the adamantium-clawed assault of a movie that fans have been waiting for all along. But just as the film-making starts to feel legitimately dangerous, the subject, Hugh Jackman’s troubled mutant, is starting to lose his punch. Something is poisoning him from the inside; it takes longer to recover from each new bout with the forces that would see his kind wiped from the face of the earth.
Once again, Wolverine unwillingly finds himself in a protector role. He is nursemaid to both the ailing Professor X (neat sound design captures the effect that brain disease has on the world’s most dangerous mind). And to Laura (Dafne Keen, compelling), a child in whom he recognises the best and worst of himself. Perhaps the main question is why Laura speaks Spanish while the other children raised alongside her in Mexico speak American-accented English. However, it’s not enough to derail the story.
The score is particularly well used – from the woozy, barbiturate-blunted music of the first act, to the rumbling pulse of threat that drives us through the second two, it meshes brilliantly with the sound design. Tightly plotted and ruthlessly bloodthirsty, this is an impressive return to form for the X-Men franchise.
The title gives just a hint of the full extent of cranial damage crammed into this dizzyingly relentless action movie. Heads are shot, punched, kicked, clobbered with typewriters, dented with retractable truncheons and submitted to some particularly grisly eye-socket trauma. Indonesian genre specialists the Mo Brothers (Timo Tjahjanto, Kimo Stamboel) tackle the martial arts genre, and the result is the most insanely violent film of the year.
The whiplash pencak silat skills of Iko Uwais (star of The Raid and both star and fight choreographer of this film) and his Raid co-star Julie Estelle are showcased, alongside those of a host of expendable other fighters. Notable are Very Tri Yulisman, playing a killer hipster with ironic spectacles and a Hoxton haircut, and Sunny Pang, radiating evil as the Father from Hell, a powerful crime boss with a grudge against Ishmael (Uwais).
Washed up on a beach and suffering the convenient Bourne-style amnesia that wipes out identity but still leaves fighting prowess, Ishmael is nursed back to health by doctor/love interest/kidnap victim Ailin (Chelsea Islan). The romantic subplot is a bit of a tokenistic distraction, but the fight choreography is thrilling. The directors shoot handheld with a camera that takes almost as much punishment as the cast: it gets chucked across rooms and, at one point, through the back window of a bus along with Ishmael.
Charlie Day deploys his most irritating strangulated voice and twitchy performance as a high-school English teacher who finds himself challenged to a fight by a fellow teacher (Ice Cube) in this crass, painfully overstated comedy. Day plays Andy Campbell, a meek husband and soon-to-be father who understandably fails to cover up the fact that his colleague smashed up a desk with a fire axe. With its bullying mob mentality and inexplicable character motivation, this is film-making for people who watch YouTube clips of happy-slapping for kicks.
Blame Glee or Gareth Malone, but you can barely move these days for community choirs. Life-affirming they may be for the participants, but for the listeners, yet another a cappella version of Lean on Me can get wearisome. Enter all-female Deep Throat Choir, who have been refining their drums-and-vocals arrangements under the direction of musician Luisa Gerstein since 2013. The east London collective’s first record consists mostly of cover versions, tackling Björk and Amy Winehouse with cool understatement, while throwing up tasteful curveballs from Sylvan Esso and Electrelane. But a little more vocal wildness in the finale of MK’s 1995 house banger, Burning, and their own composition, Be OK, really distils their full-throated joy.
She claimed the unique distinction among jazz musicians of not only having played through nearly 70 years of jazz history, but of keeping up to date the whole time. As a pianist, composer and arranger, starting in 1922, aged 12, Mary Lou mastered blues, boogie-woogie, swing, bebop and even free jazz with remarkable facility. Many bandleaders, including Duke Ellington and Benny Goodman, tried to sign her up, but she valued her freedom too much. This session, recorded at a New York club in 1975, bears out her claim. It starts with a spiritual of her own composition and takes in pieces by Ellington, Gershwin, Kurt Weill and Miles Davis. She is accompanied by bassist Brian Torff.
It’s not hard to find outstanding professional choral singing (we seem to be living through a golden age) so to stand out today a new choir has to have something else to offer in addition to perfect intonation and a clean, pure sound. Sansara, while possessing these qualities in abundance, marks itself out by having no single conductor. Instead, several individuals step out from the choir and direct according to their specialism, giving this impressive debut recording a real depth of insight. Careful narrative programming is also a plus, introducing us to several spectacular new pieces from Oliver Tarney, Marco Galvani and Malcolm Archer on a journey from darkness into light.
For a while it seemed like all we ever did in video games was shoot Nazis. In 1997, Steven Spielberg, post-Schindler’s List, pre-Saving Private Ryan and apparently in the midst of a second world war fixation, met with a team at DreamWorks to outline an idea for a first-person shooter set in 1944. In the resulting game, Medal of Honor, you played as protagonist Lieutenant Jimmy Patterson, who parachutes into Nazi territory in a bid to single-handedly turn the tide of war. In this way, Spielberg’s game was reminiscent of Hollywood’s most jingoistic postwar output. Like 1949’s Sands of Iwo Jima or 1965’s Battle of the Bulge, Medal of Honor used the theatre and mud-flecked aesthetic of the war to present a revisionist, nationalistic yet deeply cathartic take on the war of our grandparents.
Nazis offer us uncomplicated, centrally organised bad guys, a simplistic antidote to dispersed, incognito pariahs
Medal of Honor wasn’t the first video game to drop into Nazi territory in search of a setting. It was, however, responsible for inspiring a charge of me-toos. Principal among these was the Call of Duty series, which between 2003 and 2007, produced three major second world war works, each casting the player as an American, British or Soviet hero in the un-nuanced battle against fascism. Other games looked to historical figures to lend them authenticity: 2005’s vainglorious Brothers in Arms attempted to tell the story of the 502nd Parachute Infantry Regiment, dropped behind German lines on D-day.
And then, like the Reich’s Hugo Boss-made uniforms, the Nazi-shooting simulator slipped from fashion. 2007’s Call of Duty: Modern Warfare moved its setting to the near-future battlefield to great success. Most of the other first-person shooters soon followed its example. When Medal of Honor was rebooted in 2010, the setting was contemporary Afghanistan.
The switch was in part due to the technological limitations of the period. The guns of the 1940s were less accurate, enjoyed less range and packed less power than today’s arsenals. In video-game terms, that made the tools less reliable, flexible and enjoyable to use in sport-like multiplayer games. By choosing futuristic wars, such as 2014’s Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, the game designers could give players access to powerful exoskeletons and sci-fi weaponry.
Be it due to gathering fears of fascism on the left or hardening fears of foreigners on the right, the second world war setting is undoubtedly enjoying a revival. In film, 2009’s Dead Snow and Inglourious Basterds offered their boisterous, humorous takes. 2014’s The Imitation Game and 2016’s Anthropoid gave us more serious takes on the war. Amazon’s 2015 series The Man in the High Castle was a prestige fantasy interpretation of a postwar world run by victorious Nazis. This summer will deliver the first second-world-war blockbuster in many years in Christopher Nolan’s Dunkirk. Nazis, in the form of exaggerated caricatures, zombie monsters, or historical figures ripe for assassination, are in vogue again. They offer us uncomplicated, centrally organised bad guys, a simplistic antidote to today’s dispersed, incognito pariahs.
The Nazi invasion will surely soon spread from Hollywood into video games. Sniper Elite 4, a British-made game released last month, in which you play as an agent of the US Office of Strategic Services (the forerunner of the CIA) fighting fascists in 1943 Italy, leads the charge. Time slows to a crawl when you fire a shot from your sniper rifle. The camera tracks the bullet as it spins through air, then cloth, then flesh and bone. It’s grimly pornographic, at once satisfying and icky. Perhaps we will never tire of this black-and-white conflict, on to which we can project our fears and anger, and feel the self-satisfaction of knowing that we were on the winning side.
There is exemplary festival planning for Hull’s year in the cultural limelight. Each major production draws on the life and history of the city. Together they run the gamut of dramatic form. James Phillips’s and Slung Low’s epic Flood will appear partly online, partly as a site-specific work at Victoria Dock. Northern Broadsides will restage their celebrated Richard III, first seen in a marina boatshed 25 years ago. Meanwhile, Richard Bean’s The Hypocrite, a co-production between Hull Truck and the RSC, is new and big and comic, and produced in a purpose-built theatre.
Bean has set the theatre on a roar with farce, in One Man, Two Guvnors. He has steamrollered over sentimental liberalism to make strong political statements – in the unfairly vilified England People Very Nice. In the story of Sir John Hotham, governor of Hull at the outbreak of civil war, he has lighted on an irresistible subject with which to celebrate in sardonic and jesting style the place of his birth, while nudging by implication the conscience of all politicians and trimmers.
In 1642, when Hull held the country’s second largest arms magazine, Hotham refused entry to Charles I. But later his allegiance wavered. Bean pictures him vacillating between the claims of royalists and parliamentarians. As well as between wife and wenches.
So far, so interesting. There are some good Bean jokes: shown a portrait of a prospective spouse, one character objects that the face is all rough and scarred. Well, comes the response – it’s a woodcut. There are some salty curses and some lively Leveller songs from an onstage band. And some neat insider jokes, hugely appreciated by an in-the-know audience.
But, oh, the humour is hard work. Boisterousness, big boots. A string of gags rather than a developing story. A foreskin flips on to the stage as part of a bargain. Someone hides in a commode – guess what happens to his head. Two princely fops – the most floridly enjoyable performances of the evening – disguise themselves as girlies and mince around. Copulation thrives noisily behind curtains. Mark Addy struts flamboyantly. Caroline Quentin has not much to do but dimple and grump. I’d be a hypocrite if I said I laughed as much as I had hoped to.
• At Hull Truck theatre, Hull until 25 March
In her last novel, The Virgins, Pamela Erens created an unreliable narrator without rival, so it comes as no surprise that her latest offering, Eleven Hours, demonstrates similar audacity. Her subject is childbirth, an experience it’s near impossible to capture, but Erens rises admirably to the challenge, this slim novel pulsing with an urgent life force.
The setting is a maternity ward in a New York hospital, the central characters two women: 31-year-old Lore, who arrives alone, in labour with her first child but seemingly unperturbed, her birth plan and insurance card in hand; and Franckline, the nurse assigned to Lore’s care, herself newly pregnant, not yet showing but aware of the fragility of the foetus growing inside her. Thrown together by circumstance, they’re the poles of each other’s existence for the duration of the next 11 hours.
Flashbacks entangled with the present drama reveal the backstories of each. Fragments of Franckline’s life: her childhood in Haiti, where she demonstrated an early skill for the demands of midwifery; the birth of her own baby, who died only days later; her exile from her family; and her subsequent life in America, a happy marriage marred only by miscarriage. Lore, meanwhile, is afforded a more substantial history, a brutal tale of loss, loneliness and eventual betrayal, which has left her “both father and mother to this child”.
It’s “one of the most ordinary stories in the universe”, Erens reminds us, a necessary prompt since her most impressive skill is the effortless way she transforms the commonplace into the captivating – I would have greedily devoured a whole novel’s worth of the love triangle Lore unwittingly finds herself in. A similar alchemy is at work when it comes to Erens’s central subject; her visceral depiction of the full gamut of the agonies and ecstasies of childbirth is strikingly original. This is a novel that pushes beyond “the side of birth that manifests in lusty cries, in pink health,” instead invoking the experience’s horror-story elements: “The baby will have to come out. It will have to come out that way,” thinks Lore with chilling realisation. Nowhere have I read a more delightfully stomach-churning account of the indecencies, the invasiveness and the violence of bringing life into the world.
• Eleven Hours by Pamela Erens is published by Atlantic (£8.99). To order a copy for £7.64 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
Paddling palms and pinching fingers… I’ll have thy beauty scratch’d with briers… When you do dance, I wish you a wave o’ the sea… The Winter’s Tale has so much music of its own, refined in the fire of Shakespeare’s strange late play, it is hard to think an operatic version could add more. Surely it would shrink instead of grow. Instead, Ryan Wigglesworth (b1979) has made a thoughtful and lyrical case, not smaller or bigger but different, in his first opera, commissioned by English National Opera and premiered at the Coliseum last Monday.
He also wrote the libretto and conducted the performance. No mad egoist – really not, though as it happens he is also a virtuoso pianist – Wigglesworth left the designing to Vicki Mortimer and, as a wild shot, invited the actor Rory Kinnear to make his debut as a stage director. In a clever set whose two halves split and reunite, the action has been updated to contrasting military regimes, two versions of fragile power. Leontes’s Sicilia is all medals and peaked caps, Polixenes’s Bohemia khaki, shades and black berets: you’ll have seen them before at the opera if not in life. ENO has gathered a wonderful cast of British singers. Led by Iain Paterson (Leontes), Leigh Melrose (Polixenes), Susan Bickley (Paulina) and Sophie Bevan (Hermione), who is also the work’s dedicatee, they honoured this new score.
The music converses rather than shouts, it unfolds in harmonic argument rather than noisy headlines
So far so good. Many an operatic axe has fallen on Shakespeare’s plays, Macbeth, Hamlet, The Tempest, A Midsummer Night’s Dream, Romeo and Juliet among them. The better the composer, broadly but no guarantee, the more convincing the result. We have grown used to unexpected happy endings, mashed-up plots or radical reinventions (think Bernstein’s West Side Story). We may even forget that Shakespeare was the source.
A first encounter with a new interpretation is another matter. Abandoning the play can involve a tough wrestle for the audience. High horses to the ready, we list the changes and ask how a composer dare weld his or her more modest skills to the greatest writer in the English language. We want proof of purpose. The idea of homage is somehow not allowable. Thomas Adès met that response when his 2004 opera, The Tempest, was new.
Inevitably similar questions arise with The Winter’s Tale. Wigglesworth fell for the play as a student some two decades ago. That affinity shows. His short text is never drowned out by the orchestra. Quintessential phrases, such as those quoted at the start of this column, remain intact. Every word is audible. Action is simplified, plot meanders excised, which leaves some key moments feeling peremptory. Heralded by the chiming bells that start each act, the opera plunges in without preamble. Almost immediately, Leontes, a despot bestriding his own marble hall of heroic statues – including one of himself – succumbs to jealousy, believing his wife has been unfaithful. We move quickly to catastrophe and Hermione’s “death”, with the rural frolics of Bohemia providing a spry scherzo to the darkness of the outer acts.
Wigglesworth’s score is fluid and sensuous, building on the tradition of Britten and Tippett but with plenty of individuality – the pairing of piano and harp, the dry, whip-crack intimations of tension, the anger of the Apollo chorus. Textures are shaded not spattered. Wigglesworth prefers restraint to explosive drama. The music converses rather than shouts, it unfolds in harmonic argument rather than noisy headlines, though the composer is quite capable of a triple fortissimo when needed. Is this enough for opera? Some will think not. We’ll discover as the work settles. I was absorbed throughout, but not quite ambushed. I’m not sure The Winter’s Tale, an ever enigmatic play, invites that kind of response.
Kinnear’s staging did not distract, though a couple of clumsy moments need sorting out. Paterson’s Leontes fills the stage, his folly and arrogance palpable and chilling, his remorse touching. Melrose is agile and strong as Polixenes. As Hermione, Sophie Bevan conjured the role’s dignity and anguish impeccably, with an unearthly top B utterance as she, a statue, returns to life and cries out to the gods. Susan Bickley’s sage and authoritative Paulina deserves a prize. The impetuous young lovers Florizel and Perdita (Samantha Price and Anthony Gregory), Neal Davies as Antigonus and Timothy Robinson as Camillo all excelled. Go and decide for yourself.
The bad blood of violence and abusive desire runs deep through Debussy’s Pelléas et Mélisande, based on Maeterlinck’s symbolist play. The composer imagined that his orchestra was a forest and that his tragic heroine could die among the violins. This is not quite the case in David McVicar’s new staging for Scottish Opera – brilliantly designed by Rae Smith with lighting by Paule Constable – the company’s first Pelléas since 1979. Every aspect, though, is exemplary, starting with the conductor Stuart Stratford, Scottish Opera’s music director, who draws terrific playing from the orchestra, urgent, pulsating and menacing. The floor-level pit in Glasgow’s Theatre Royal added to the impact.
Using the Danish artist Hammershøi as a touchstone, Rae’s designs merge forest and castle, interior and outside as one. Blind windows fill one side of the stage, tall, dark pine trunks the other. The ever present, ever watchful family sit around a table, midway between the two. All looks beautiful, and claustrophobic. Carolyn Sampson’s Mélisande had scorching purity, mysterious to the end. “La vérité!” she cries on her death bed, but what is the truth of this woman whom we first encounter weeping? Sampson’s experience as a baroque singer reaped rewards here. The baritone Andrei Bondarenko was a compelling Pelléas despite his Ukrainian accent never yielding to French vowels. Roland Wood’s Golaud, no monster until suspicion reduces him to despair, evoked terrible pity. Alastair Miles as the old king, Arkel, plays out the confusions of incomprehension, horror, cowardice and helplessness with heart and voice. Cedric Amamoo (b2003) gave an intelligent and remarkable performance as the boy Yniold. When Golaud held him up to the window to spy on the illicit adults Pelléas and Mélisande, the tension was intolerable: enough to make you grip the chair arm. For a moment this 1902 opera felt like Hitchcock.
Star ratings (out of 5)The Winter’s Tale ★★★★ Pelléas et Mélisande ★★★★★
• The Winter’s Tale is in rep at the Coliseum, London until 14 March
• Pelléas et Mélisande is in rep at the Festival theatre, Edinburgh until 11 March
Anyone who champions Brahms’s gloriously eccentric, lyrical and capacious Serenades – No 1 in D with six movements, No 2 in A with five – deserves full attention. Here they get it. Jaime Martín was chiefly a flautist until switching careers to full-time conducting in 2013. He gets three big pictures on this CD – the first in a series of Brahms recording with the Gävle Symphony Orchestra – whereas Brahms has only one, scarcely bigger than a postage stamp. Despite occasional thickening of textures, there’s some lovely playing, with warm woodwind and horns and nice, crisp syncopations. Martín does not allow the tempi to drag: important in works that need to be kept agile and alert to reveal their special charm.
In so many ways Saturday Night Live is a tradition-based show – it very rarely breaks format, mixes live and pre-taped elements, or toys with “meta” comedy.
But this week, the show played with expectations – and people who only watch sketches on YouTube – by inserting Kate McKinnon as Kellyanne Conway into the mid-commercial live-shots, where viewers get a peek at the actors setting up for their next scene.
Sitting on her knees and playing on her phone, McKinnon/Conway never looked up or was acknowledged by anyone, despite a couple references to “couchgate” throughout the show.
It seemed the show was trying to emphasise the obvious – that it was a funny photo and nothing else, certainly not enough to hang an entire sketch on.
Another possibility is that the show may have found itself bound by its reliance on McKinnon, who did her Jeff Sessions impression in the cold open, thereby ruling out a Conway appearance.
McKinnon’s Sessions is among the weaker of her impressions, with an impish quality that feels a bit off. This time, we saw Sessions in Forrest Gump-mode, chatting to strangers on a Southern park bench.
“I always say life is like a box of chocolates,” he explained to Leslie Jones. “Sure are a whole lot of brown ones in there.” It was an unforgiving take on the attorney general that ended with a clever appearance by the episode’s host, Octavia Spencer.
Minny Jackson has a special delivery for Jeff Sessions. #SNL pic.twitter.com/cB3ak6U9mm
"Being in the government is so fun." #SNL pic.twitter.com/EW3zNiMO6A
"This is my best good friend Kellyanne." #SNL pic.twitter.com/wPrT3ym4oU
Spencer proved to be a very skilled host for episode that was otherwise fairly average. Other notable sketches included:
The autobiographical story of Bartók’s six string quartets is as powerful as that of Beethoven’s quartets: a lifelong absorption in the form, which produced utterly compelling and completely distinctive pieces. From the meditative First of 1909, through the rhapsodic Second of 1918 and the acerbic Third of 1929, to the elegiac Sixth of 1939, these works reinvent the string quartet form. They have surely never found more idiomatic interpreters than the Végh Quartet, recorded in 1954, with a profound understanding of the idiom, finding the earthy folk roots in so much of this music, bringing it to life with a touch of old-fashioned portamento and restrained vibrato; supremely eloquent.
There are well-founded fears that few of the politicians tasked with devising legislation covering the use of encryption technology have any expertise in that field – and in many cases, much understanding of how it even works. Yet a growing number of politicians and their aides are getting hands-on, day-to-day experience of encryption through their use of messaging apps for that most traditionally political pastime: plotting.
The Times recently revealed that Brexit-backing MPs have been coordinating their attacks on chancellor Philip Hammond, Bank of England governor Mark Carney, high court judges and other perceived enemies of a hard exit from Europe via a WhatsApp group called “ERG DExEU/DIT Suppt Group”. Meanwhile, on the left, a WhatsApp group called the Birthday Group reportedly played a key role in the coordination of Labour frontbench resignations in 2016, in an effort to unseat Jeremy Corbyn.
If these apps are being used to discuss government business they should be covered by Freedom of Information legislation
The appeal of these apps for political plotting lies in their immediate, always-on lines of communication – enabling instant control of spin and talking points. As one MP told the Times: “Our real power is that, by using the WhatsApp group, we can also ask everyone to shut up.”
They also appeal because they promise secrecy, which is somewhat unexpected, as Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group, points out. “When MPs argue for back doors into encryption, they fail to see how vital encryption is for our everyday lives – whether for communicating, shopping or banking securely,” he says. “The fact that MPs are increasingly using WhatsApp to communicate is rather ironic, given that they have just voted for a law that undermines the privacy of the UK population.”
So, despite claims in some quarters of government and media that encrypted apps are an enabler for terrorism, it turns out they are a handy alternative to huddled conversations in the nooks and corners of Westminster and Washington alike.
The Washington Post recently claimed that a number of Donald Trump’s administration have taken to using messaging app Confide, which not only encrypts messages but deletes them after they have been read, to avoid getting caught leaking to the media. As John Naughton noted on these pages last month, it’s difficult to square Confide with the US legal requirements to archive all communications within the presidential team.
This could encourage more politicians to buck the terrorist-enabler narrative and/or make an effort to properly educate themselves about how the technology works. However, it also raises questions about transparency. If these apps are being used by members of the government to discuss government business, they should be covered by Freedom of Information legislation, just like email, or other forms of communication.
However, as Matt Burgess, who runs FOI Directory, says: “It’s impossible to know whether these groups exist without them being admitted to, which makes them hard to request information about. There are also record-keeping issues with using commercial apps that are end-to-end encrypted, as they make it harder to extract conversations that need to be kept for archives.”
In January there was a successful FOI request in Ireland for WhatsApp chat within the Dublin government over their response to Brexit, but if there have been any requests in the UK, their results have not been made public. However, their content could leak into the public domain via other means, such as hacking.
“The current digital goal for those trying to sway elections is to discredit candidates and undermine them personally. All it takes is one private conversation shared publicly, one internal memo, or one message confirming an unpublicised indiscretion to lose an election,” says Alan Duric, chief technology officer of communications app Wire.
His company is preparing to publish a series of educational blog posts aimed at politicians and civil servants – part marketing for Wire, of course, but also a recognition that these people may need the advice.
“It is vital that politicians educate themselves about the differences between channels and protocols, and what is and isn’t safe,” says Duric. “It is not acceptable for those people who are entrusted with the running of our countries to be ignorant of others trying to listen in on conversations, and they need advice on how this can be prevented.”
Could self-interest alone rein in the impulse among politicians to call for more monitoring and built-in back doors, if they are enjoying the benefits of private, encrypted conversations for their parliamentary plotting? We shall see.
WhatsAppFacebook-owned WhatsApp reached the milestone of 1 billion active users in early 2016, and proceeded to expand its use of end-to-end encryption technology later that year.
“The idea is simple: when you send a message, the only person who can read it is the person or group chat that you send that message to,” wrote CEO Jan Koum in a blog post that April.
“No one can see inside that message. Not cybercriminals. Not hackers. Not oppressive regimes. Not even us.”
And not Jeremy Corbyn, who was reportedly schemed against by frontbench colleagues in a WhatsApp group called the Birthday Group in June 2016. Remain campaigners were also accused of using a private WhatsApp group that year, to avoid their discussions being targeted by FOI requests.
ConfideConfide is the app being used by some members of Donald Trump’s staff to communicate with journalists at a time when the administration is on the warpath over leaks.
The app encrypts messages and also erases them after they are read. It came to prominence in 2014, when it pitched itself to Hollywood studios as a secure alternative to email in the wake of a high-profile hack of Sony Pictures.
Confide’s use by Trump aides has been causing concern in the digital-security community, however. Unlike rival apps such as Signal, it has yet to make its code available to the community for scrutiny.
“Ultimately, the application warrants a cryptographic review before I could endorse its use in the White House,” security expert Jonathan Zdziarski blogged last month.
SignalBefore Confide’s latest brush with the headlines, Signal was regularly hailed as the go-to app for politicians and other public-sector officials seeking secure messaging.
It certainly has the pedigree: Signal was developed by Open Whisper Systems, a well-respected company in online privacy and security circles. It also got top marks in a 2014 “scorecard” of secure communications services published by the Electronic Frontier Foundation.
Signal has been given a boost by the recent US presidential election. In January, the Wall Street Journal claimed that aides of Donald Trump, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton had switched to it, while prominent Republican Rudy Giuliani is also a user.
Following the high-profile leak of emails from and to Clinton’s campaign boss John Podesta, downloads of the app increased by 400%.
WickrFor WhatsApp in the Labour party, read Wickr in the upper echelons of the Australian political establishment.
In spring 2015, then-communications minister Malcolm Turnbull was accused of using the app with a close circle of colleagues to plan his strategy for a leadership contest. That strategy paid off: later that year, Turnbull successfully unseated party leader Tony Abbott to become prime minister.
Like Confide, Wickr’s appeal is not just its encryption technology, but its ability to erase messages after they are read. It too has faced criticism for not releasing its code to the online-security community for review, although it has now done that.
Wickr also has a nonprofit arm called the Wickr Foundation, which in 2016 invested in an app called Whistler for whistleblowers and activists.
The Nightly Show (ITV) ITV PlayerThe Replacement (BBC) | iPlayerBroadchurch (ITV) | ITV PlayerPrime Suspect 1973 (ITV) | ITV PlayerCatastrophe (C4) | All 4
What a difficult business it must be having ITV as a friend. Brightly new-pin sharp some days, radiating intelligence; the next day a bleary, weary fright of a mess, both cock-boastful and wheedlingly needy. On one hand, the channel continues to produce some of the finest drama currently on show on, yes, the planet. On the other, the channel continues to showboat its contempt for news and current affairs by not only moving News at Ten to 10.30 but, now weaving like a drunk trying to remove his trousers, replacing it with The Nightly Show.
There is still a space, arguably an urgent need, for an American-style blend of satire, chat and to-the-second topicality on British TV (again, I’d humbly propose Eddie Mair for the job). But there are not italics sufficiently viciously slanted to express the opinion that this wasn’t it. There is already talk, unusual perhaps in any programme’s debut week – I don’t even remember this with Eldorado – of taking it with urgency behind the barn and hitting it with an axe. I’ll give it a chance to find what’s left of its feet, as it varies its weekly presenters, and Mel, Sue and Bradley Walsh are usually great value. But it was someone’s decision – an apparently unique combination of condescension and panic – to open with a week of David Walliams. To be fair, Walliams and I appear to possess wildly differing views on what is or might ever be funny, intelligent or interesting, so I’m coming at him with distaste anyway. All I’ll say is it’s borderline possible that someone has made a joke about Donald Trump’s hair at some time in the past year, and without being paid £1,500 a minute.
Back to that winning ITV drama soon, but for the moment the week still belongs to The Replacement, a very BBC (in a good way) psychological drama that fair gripped the thrapple, as they say in Scotland, though this was a very middle-class Scotland, all chi-chi architects and mews refurbs and lazy winter sun blinking through empty gastropubs. And a pregnancy, and needs-must maternity leave at the very bloody height of Ellen’s architectural success, and an impossibly nice replacement found in Paula.
It was remarkable for many things. The skill of the storytelling was one: writer and director Joe Ahearne ratcheted the tension in ever-credible gradations, yet to the extent that by the end you were left blinking, asking: how did it get to this? Same principle as boiling a frog. And, like The Girl on the Train, or Before I Go to Sleep, you would keep questioning the trustworthiness of the narrator: is Ellen’s burgeoning distaste towards replacement Paula the fault of Paula (her inappropriate invasion of personal space, annexation of Ellen’s pregnancy as celebration of all things mother, sly adjustments to the blueprint of Ellen’s big project), or the product of Ellen’s own paranoid, exploding hormones? The two leads, Morven Christie as Ellen and Vicky McClure as Paula, simply excel. Together they evoke, with hard stares melting into ersatz all-girls-together smiles, lipsticked moues snapping when out of sight into feral snarls, the very embodiment of passive-aggressive workplace feuds, reminiscent even of Bette Davis, Joan Crawford. There is, yes, a body, plunging through a skylight, but in truth it didn’t need it: the drama is contained in the too-credible scenario of two colleagues murdering each other with smiles. Might Ellen be wrong? Madly wrong about the succubus trying to steal her job, her husband, even her baby? Oh, but trust me, it’s Paula. Never mind frogs: the smart money says she’ll be boiling the bunny by the end of things. In a far-too-long fortnight when the third, last, episode arrives. Can’t wait.
Broadchurch, I’m delighted to say, veered back with a welcome clunk on to high good form. I actually liked Chris Chibnall’s second series – I had just interviewed David Tennant, in situ in Bridport, and was thus well disposed – but can still accept it was seen as a retreat from the impossible heights achieved by the original (which Chibnall had only ever intended to be a one-off).
Due to popular demand, he’s had to make it three, before going off to be the new Doctor Who showrunner, and there was no body on the beach this time either. Instead, a searingly distraught – to the point of amnesia, almost narcolepsy – Julie Hesmondhalgh, numb from rape. Which she’s taken three days to report.
The first half-hour of this re-established much. The awkward relationship between Tennant and Olivia Colman’s Ellie, by turns bickering and fond, but (almost) ever to the good. The impact on the community, that big trick borrowed from Scandi drama to supplant body-count; already there are dark untruths appearing. Chiefly, though, Chibnall’s ear and eye for all niceties and nastinesses of changing modern life, revealed here in the steady, slow, patient processing of Julie H – does another award loom? She was blisteringly good – with encouraging hand-grasps and whispers from Ellie, great care from crisis worker Anna, sensitivity in the swabs, overall empathy from police, overall belief from the police. Fabulous, with many winces to truth. Soon, Broadchurch’s locals will scuttle back to lying.
A great contrast, certainly, to the treatment of women in 1973. Not just within the police force: even the victims, such as a prostitute on a slab, are subjected to a dearth of dignity unimaginable today. This was fiercely evinced in Prime Suspect 1973, a reimagined timeslip from Lynda La Plante, à la Endeavour. And wow. It’s got legs.
As has (sexist critic spoiler alert) Stefanie Martini. As the desperately young Jane Tennison, she has been criticised for wearing too much eye makeup, for being too pretty, too silly – for, basically, not being Helen Mirren – but to my mind did an immense job of credibly balancing her impossible life. A nice middle-class gal from Maida Vale, with parents who can’t give her credit for not being her hairdresser sister, coping in probationary policedom with tea-making, vomit-clearing, every haughty misogynist slapdown while the whole cop-shop lusts after her. And meanwhile, trying to solve a nasty druggie murder, which might possibly foil a bank raid. And drunkenly, youngly, snogging her boss. No wonder the later Jane hit the bottle – swallowed the bottle. Tantalising, beautifully realised – even the rain seems to come from ’73 – and very moreish.
Catastrophe remains the funniest programme on television, despite its success. Horgan and Delaney might justifiably have grown lazy: they haven’t. Series three kicked off with the usual scatology from Sharon Horgan – it’s never a programme I would recommend to Irish nuns, though I don’t know that very many – mostly revolving around knicker-sweat. Hubby Rob Delaney, the forsworn teetotaller, is back on the booze, which is immensely promising. Mostly it promises an accident waiting to happen – just not a very interesting accident. Two milk-floats colliding. All you’re left with is the smell of spilt milk, going off.
The genius lies in the creation of a couple who can kick seven leathers out of each other and achieve impossibly stupid circumstances, but remain clever enough to know it is, still, and will always be, clever them against the world.
The World According to Studs Terkel (World Service) | iPlayerPeople Fixing the World (World Service) | iPlayerBetween The Ears: The Enemy Within (Radio 3) | iPlayer
A few offbeat listens this week… First up, Studs Terkel. Also known as America’s liberal conscience, Terkel had a show on a Chicago radio station that ran from 1952 to 1997. And on that show, he interviewed artists and singers and thinkers that changed the world.
Now Alan Hall of Falling Tree Productions has knitted together some of these interviews into a two-part programme called The World According to Studs Terkel. This isn’t your usual, heavily signposted, hammer-the-point-home BBC programme. Hall has taken care to let us listeners hear the speakers properly, without too much editorial interference. He calls the result an audio mosaic, which is about right. And, crikey, it’s amazing. To hear Maya Angelou, Simone de Beauvoir, Muhammad Ali, James Baldwin, Erika Jong, Mahalia Jackson in one programme! And every single one with a beautiful speaking voice, you notice. In fact, I was in such a reverie about their tones that for a while I found myself not really listening to their words, and went back to the start to take it all in. This proved a salutary experience, with Angelou and Baldwin talking about the deep wounds on American life caused by racism. “The American Negro is the key figure in this country,” said Baldwin at one point, “and if you don’t face him, you won’t face anything.” Their words sang out across the years, as resonant as ever.
Hall met Terkel on a number of occasions towards the end of his life and interviewed him. So we hear Terkel describing how he lost his TV show because of his supposed communist sympathies; and how he got a radio show because Jackson insisted he host it. And then, when the anti-communists came in again to try and kick him off, Jackson said: “You tell those people if you fire Studs Terkel, you find another Mahalia Jackson!” A lovely show. I am looking forward to the second episode.
Also from the World Service, I thought I’d try the People in Fixing the World podcast. This is a mixed bag of a show, drawn from the World Hacks series. Some episodes, such as Jobs for Syrian Refugees, use reporters on the ground (in Jordan, in this case) to explain and illustrate a problem and its supposed solution. These programmes are utterly fascinating. Other episodes gather those who have been directly affected by what’s being talked about, such as the lady in The Voter Lottery, who won $10,000 just because she voted in a US local election. And then others, such as The War on Fake News, simply try to explain the problem and interview experts to seek the solution. These are the least successful, coming across like a cramming session for a lazy student.
I also have a slight problem with Sahar Zand’s presentation. She emphasises certain words and swallows others, so that People Fixing the World, for instance, sounds like “PEEPULL! …fixinthewurl”. This makes it hard to follow on occasion. But she has a lovely upbeat tone. “Hello lovely people!” was one of her introductions, which I loved. And there are facts and figures galore. Did you know that in many towns in the US, the turnout for a local election is 6%? Or that in most countries, refugees are not allowed to work?
And in a very moving and upsetting edition of Radio 3’s Between the Ears, we heard from women who live with partners who suffer severe post-traumatic stress disorder as a result of duty in the armed services. The Enemy Within, another programme from Falling Tree Productions, was sensitively put together, with wonderful interviews and beautiful editing and music. Imagine living with someone you love who flips into violence or trauma at the sound of a child’s shouting, or in their sleep, through not fault of their own. A sad highlight of the week.
With its huge eyes, comical name and diminutive size, Mark R Smith’s image of a baby Hawaiian bobtail squid can’t help but raise a smile. A curiously endearing creature, the cephalopod is just 1.5cm across, its mantle cavity bearing more than a passing resemblance to a rather natty shower cap. But it is also a beautiful example of symbiosis – nature’s version of “I’ll scratch your back if you scratch mine”– for on the underside of the squid is a light organ which houses bioluminescent bacteria. The squid offers the bacteria protection and food, while the bacteria emit a glow – a handy trait that the squid uses to offset its silhouette, helping it to evade predators in the depths below.
One of the winners in this year’s Wellcome Image Awards, the bobtail squid strikes a cheery note. But others scooping a gong evoke quite different emotions.
Open-beaked against a jet-black background, the image of a bird leaps forth, a frenzy of red-and-white squirming lines hinting at its form. It looks like a still from a Hitchcockian nightmare. “It looks so cross, sort of squawking at you,” says Catherine Draycott, head of Wellcome Images.
In fact, the eerie shot is the product of data captured during a CT scan; the hectic lines are the blood vessels inside a humble pigeon. “It is fascinating because of the way it shows the incredible density of blood vessels around the collar area, around the base of the neck,” says Draycott, pointing out the secret of the pigeon’s ability to regulate its internal temperature.
The picture was captured by Scott Echols, a veterinarian and president of Scarlet Imaging, as part of an ongoing endeavour known as the Grey Parrot Anatomy Project, which aims to develop ways to aid diagnosis and treatment for a host of animals, from birds to humans.
But the image isn’t just an arresting testament to the ingenuity of mother nature – it is also a tribute to scientific innovation. As Echols explains, using CT scans and contrast agents (substances to improve the visibility of things inside a body) to map blood vessels is a tricky business. “I had a student and we were working with what was considered at the time the best agent to look at the cardiovascular system,” he says. “And at some point the material exploded – it exploded all over me and, more concerning, all over my student – and left a mark on the wall like a crime scene where you have a body and a chalk outline.” Even more worrying, the contrast agent was toxic. “It was a mixture of lead, cadmium, mercury – horrible stuff,” says Echols.
In a bid to find a non-toxic alternative, Echols began concocting various experimental mixtures. The result was a contrast agent known as BriteVu. “That pigeon represents one of the earlier images after we figured out how to get the formula right,” says Echols. “It circulates through all the blood vessels to the capillary level, so you can see every single capillary in the body.” Echols says that the image is limited only by the capability of the CT scanner. “That particular pigeon was scanned at 100 microns, so you are seeing a fraction of the vessels that are there,” he says. “If we were to scan it in greater detail you’d see even finer vessels.”
The upshot is a technique that offers the chance to explore cardiovascular systems in three dimensions. But the success hasn’t been limited to birds. “We ended up testing the product on different animals and since then we have discovered anatomy no one knew existed,” says Echols, adding that all animals used in the project are already diagnosed as having terminal conditions.
But while the image, and the technique behind it, is shedding new light on anatomy, Echols, a former wildlife artist, hopes it will also captivate those outside the lab. “One of the beauties of art is that it brings out something inside of you maybe you didn’t even know was there, a curiosity, a past memory – whatever it may be,” he says. “I hope it brings out that inner curiosity that I believe is in all of us.”
It’s a sentiment that seems to distil the ethos of the Wellcome Image awards. Now in its 20th year, the prize has grown in breadth as well as in profile. “There is more communication between artists and scientists than there ever has been before,” says Draycott.
Indeed, this year’s shortlist embraces spectacular images from the lab, infographics of Twitter connections and even portraits of the scientists themselves, including a dramatic scarlet illustration of Rita Levi-Montalcini, the late neurobiologist, by artist Daria Kirpach.
A medical graduate from a Jewish family in Italy, during the second world war Levi-Montalcini was banned from taking up academic work, so instead she set up a small, secret laboratory in her bedroom in Turin, using sewing needles as surgical instruments, to study the growth of nerve fibres in chick embryos. After fleeing with her family to the countryside to avoid the bombs, she continued her research, cycling to farms to collect the necessary chicken eggs while, later in the war, she was appointed doctor at a refugee camp in Florence. After the conflict, Levi-Montalcini returned to her work on embryos, sharing a Nobel prize in 1986 for the discovery of nerve growth factor.
The colourful work is, perhaps, a nod to Levi-Montalcini’s vivid life. “Artists’ interpretations of science are about communication, they are about communicating something to an audience, and it is up to you how you interpret that work,” says Draycott of the awards.
That audience is growing. Not only are this year’s images set to go on show in the huge windows of the Wellcome HQ in London, but they will also be displayed around the UK and beyond. “It is not London-centric – the exhibitions are opening at science centres up and down the country, from Aberdeen to the Eden Project [in Cornwall],” says Draycott, adding that the images will also be on show as far afield as South Africa and Moscow.
As the awards have burgeoned over the years, so too has the technology behind the images, a point neatly illustrated by The Placental Rainbow, a colourful array of mouse placentas created by Suchita Nadkarni of the William Harvey Research Institute at Queen Mary University of London. “The resolution of that image and the way that the colours pick up the nuclei and the blood supply – if you look at it really really closely – is just incredible,” says Draycott. “[This type of image] used to be very luminescent and colourful but the definition was always an issue, whereas now you are getting incredible definition.”
The picture, says Nadkarni, sheds light on how the structure of the placenta, such as the development of blood vessels, can be affected by changes to the immune system – each placenta in the image is from a mouse with a genetically different immune system. “This is all relating to a condition called pre-eclampsia, which is the leading cause of maternal and child death worldwide,” she says, pointing out that the condition is linked to problems in the development of placental blood vessels that are thought, in part, to be down to the mother’s immune system not functioning properly. By tinkering with the immune systems of mice, Nadkarni adds, it might be possible to find a telltale marker for such problems, offering a possible approach for prediction or early diagnosis of pre-eclampsia in humans.
But the striking multicolour image is not only a beautiful illustration of her work, says Nadkarni – it is also a stark reminder of the complexity of life. “People think of pregnancy being just a mother and child thing and they don’t think about the individual cells that are involved during pregnancy that help make it successful or in this case don’t make it successful,” she says. “I want people to understand that there is a lot going on during pregnancy and the immune system plays a really important part.”
For Draycott, that ability of images to lay bare the essence of research lies at the heart of the awards. “The scientist is discovering and drilling down and finding out more and more, and they are immersed in it and they know everything about it,” she says. “But the end result is something that you can put on the street and explain to somebody who doesn’t know anything about it and make it make sense.”
The overall winner of the Wellcome Image awards will be announced on 15 March. Exhibitions open from 16 March 2017 in the UK, Europe and Africa. A full list of venues can be found at wellcomeimageawards.org
Our appetite for neglected parts of our national history has been fed in recent times by any number of biographies, novels and BBC4 documentaries by camera-friendly academics. Few, though, pause for long on the recusants, that small number of Catholics who, amid the post-Reformation religious havoc wreaked by Tudor and Stuart monarchs, refused to be coerced into abandoning their allegiance to the pope.
Roy Hattersley, politician turned historian, sets out to correct that sin of omission in his elegantly written, sweeping account of Catholics in these islands from the Reformation to the present day. It’s a tale of high drama and high stakes, by turns horrifying, romantic and ultimately hopeful.
In just a handful of places – Hattersley mentions in particular the ancient healing shrine of St Winefride’s in north Wales – the Catholic mass has been said continuously despite Henry VIII’s break with Rome. Successive Protestant kings, queens and ministers may have deployed every weapon at their disposal – spies, penal taxation, exclusion from public life and gory, staged executions – to force Catholics on pain of destitution and death to conform to the new national religion, but they failed to impose their will.
Survival and continuity, however, came at a cost. Hattersley chronicles the long list of those hung, drawn and quartered for their faith, now regarded by the church as martyrs, and highlights one case “as an example of barbarism, corruption and sheer evil”. Father Nicholas Postgate had been trained like many others as a Catholic priest on the continent and then smuggled back into England to lead a secret life, perpetually on the run between priest-holes and hidden chapels in the recusant homes of the Catholic gentry.
Unlike most, he had survived into his 80s but found himself caught up in 1678 in the latest of many waves of anti-Catholic hysteria, this one caused by the “Popish Plot” to depose Charles II and replace him with a papist. No matter that the plot existed only in the imagination of its unreliable narrator, Titus Oates, Postgate was arrested, found guilty of treason, and executed. “I do not die for the plot, but for my Catholic religion,” the old man told the crowds at the gallows in York before he met his maker.
Such attachment even unto death fascinates Hattersley. Why didn’t the recusants just go with the religious flow, outwardly at least? It was, he concludes, something to do with the certainty that Catholicism represented, and how it was impervious to persecution and prejudice. Indeed, they have the opposite effect, a lesson just as relevant today in handling minority faiths mistakenly regarded as subversive by an often overexcited majority. What finally healed the recusant breach was compromise and acceptance of Catholics’ right to be different – in the Relief Acts of the late 18th century and the granting of emancipation in 1829.
For Hattersley, the story he tells has a personal side. The book is dedicated to his father, who was a Catholic priest in 1932 when he fell in love with a young woman who had come to him with her fiance for marriage preparation. The wedding went ahead, but two weeks later Father Hattersley eloped with the bride. The couple never told their son about their past. He only discovered it by accident after his father’s death in 1972.
He touches on this private wound at the start, but all too briefly, which is a shame. Elsewhere he could have done with rationing his words in the same manner, especially in the sections on the already too familiar story of the buildup to the post-Reformation persecutions. But the core of The Catholics is worth waiting for. The story of the recusants is neglected no longer.
Peter Stanford’s Martin Luther: Catholic Dissident is published by Hodder on 16 March.
• The Catholics: The Church and Its People in Britain and Ireland, from the Reformation to the Present Day by Roy Hattersley is published by Chatto & Windus (£25). To order a copy for £21.25 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
When George Saunders won the inaugural Folio prize in 2014 for his story collection Tenth of December, I had the good fortune to interview him in the immediate aftermath. Charmingly open and expansive, he humorously recounted the false starts to his writing life without a hint of faux self-deprecation. Once, he told me, while still gainfully employed as a technical writer, he had written a Joyce-influenced novel about a Mexican wedding where he’d been a guest that had somehow grown to unmanageable proportions. He gave it to his wife, Paula, to read. After some hours, he saw her with her head in her hands. The novel was history.
We see the dead inhabiting his body, willing him to keep walking away from the graveyard, back towards life
A week later, he heard Paula laughing “with real sincerity” over some poems and doodles that he had made to amuse himself during conference calls at work. The answer came to him: he had left the fun out of his work. He stopped doing that, acknowledged the influences of Monty Python and Steve Martin, and wrote six story collections of inspired, hyper-real mayhem, including CivilWarLand in Bad Decline, Pastoralia and Tenth of December.
Now comes his first novel, which, at first sight, appears to have little of the satirically comic about it. It is the story of Willie Lincoln, the 11-year-old son of Abraham and Mary Lincoln, who died, probably of typhoid fever, in February 1862. His parents were devastated. Unable even to attend his burial, his mother retreated to her bed, where she remained under sedation for a prolonged period. His father, already beset by internal doubt and external uproar a year into the American civil war, was propelled by restless grief to walk the dark and stormy Georgetown cemetery where Willie’s body lay.
Out of this familial catastrophe – albeit one that was available for the scrutiny of a divided and loss-struck nation – Saunders conjures a breathtakingly agile narrative, a polyphony (and occasional cacophony) of the voices of the dead that surround Willie, and attempt to ease his passage through his final bardo, the transitional state between life and death defined by Tibetan Buddhism. Those voices, and Willie’s, come to us in snatches, usually brief, little bursts of subjectivity and consciousness tumbling over one another, sometimes conversing, sometimes interrupting, squabbling, contradicting. Occasionally, a chapter from what is called “the previous place” intrudes: eye-witness accounts, diaries, letters, newspaper reports, also frequently contradictory.
But this story belongs to the dead, even if they don’t think they are. We become aware that our two principal speakers, Hans Vollman and Roger Bevins III, believe themselves to be grievously injured, but still in with a chance of exiting their “sick-boxes” and returning to the lives they’ve lost, and thus determined to resist the temptation to transition into death. Vollman longs for the pleasures of his as yet unconsummated marriage bed, from which he was separated by a freak accident that has combined with desire to leave him, in his liminal state, with a colossally engorged member. Bevins, stricken with a change of heart minutes after slitting his wrists in a fit of romantic agony, is possessed by a heightened apprehension of the world’s beauties, and in the bardo has sprouted numerous pairs of eyes, ears and limbs.
The pair, often joined by an elderly reverend who, as we come to realise, knows more about the bardo than he’s letting on, find in Willie a cause for action, a distraction from the boredom of the cemetery that allows them access to greater empathy. This, it transpires, is Saunders’ primary intention in the novel: to take these whirling and disparate voices – miserly widows, violent grifters, drinkers, doting mothers, licentious young men, abused slaves (even in this realm cast into a less hospitable portion of the graveyard) – and unite them in their common humanity.
“These young ones are not meant to tarry,” says Bevins, but Willie himself is unsure, feeling somehow that his father would want him to stay within reach: “It is soon to be spring / The Christmas toys barely played with / I have a glass soldier whose head can turn / The epaulettes interchangeable / Soon flowers will bloom / Lawrence from the garden shed will give us each a cup of seeds / I am to wait / I said.”
In the ceaselessly shape-shifting world of the bardo, under periodic siege from recruiters from the world of the dead, who entrap the semi-dead with visions of their lost loved ones and with fast-growing tendrils of ivy, the material is a movable feast. In the “previous place”, the material is inescapable, as Abraham Lincoln reflects during his visits to Willie’s tomb; unable to prevent himself from opening the casket to hold his son once more, his mind is also assailed by the dead Union and Confederate soldiers piling up, mourned with equal intensity by their parents. Experiencing one’s individual bereavements as part of a greater community of loss is something that Lincoln begins to learn at his son’s tomb; in an extraordinarily powerful scene, we see the dead inhabiting his body, willing him to keep walking away from the graveyard, back towards life.
A practising Buddhist (he might well emphasise the practising, as he’s previously spoken of being a beginner), Saunders threads his fragmented narrative with many of the religion’s key tenets: the acceptance of flux; of relinquishing all attachments; of repetition and cycles; of the journey away from the self towards an indivisible whole. Yet his book is also profoundly worldly, committed to the accurate presentation of each voice, its particular context, its variations and sensibilities.
He could, of course, have written a book untethered to such large-scale historical reality; a grieving father is a grieving father. His spritely imagination could have whisked into existence his strikingly antic bardo and its inhabitants in any place, any time. But his revivification of Lincoln dramatises not only a general sense of the conflict between private and public selves, duty and inclination, doubt and resolve, but a very specifically American one. Lincoln in the Bardo was clearly conceived before the present circumstances, but it is nonetheless inflected with the tensions between the individual and the commonwealth that characterise the American psyche. Chronicling his attendance at a Trump rally in the New Yorker last year, Saunders described himself as “a sentimental middle-aged person who cherishes certain Coplandian notions about the essential goodness of the nation”, even if what he witnessed made him slump against a tree to recover. His first novel is a brilliant, exhausting, emotionally involving attempt to get up again, to fight for empathy, kindness and self-sacrifice, and to resist.
• Lincoln in the Bardo by George Saunders is published by Bloomsbury (£18.99). To order a copy for £14.24 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
We cannot know whether Misty Copeland would have become America’s most celebrated ballet dancer if she had not met Cindy Bradley, the flame-haired instructor who first recognised and then sharpened her talents, but it seems unlikely. Then again, it’s doubtful that Copeland would have met Bradley if not for Elizabeth Cantine, the coach of her school drill team who urged her to check out the free ballet class at the Boys & Girls Club of San Pedro. Nor is it clear that Copeland would have joined Cantine’s squad without the encouragement of her adored older sister, Erica, a drill team star. It was Erica who helped Copeland choreograph an audition piece to George Michael’s I Want Your Sex. And who, knowing her story, can omit the Romanian gymnast Nadia Comaneci from this roll call? As a seven-year-old, trying to emulate Comaneci’s pyrotechnics, Copeland instinctively understood “that rhythmic motion came as naturally to me as breathing,” to quote from her memoir, Life in Motion.
This is life, a cascading series of chance encounters and arbitrary choices that shape our destinies, but for a young black girl in a working-class Los Angeles suburb, who characterises her childhood as “packing, scrambling, leaving – often barely surviving,” catching the right breaks are nigh on impossible. Yet through whatever alchemy of grit, resilience and compulsion, Misty Copeland, a 65lb ragamuffin when she arrived at Bradley’s class, beat the odds. In August 2015 she was promoted to principal dancer for the American Ballet Theatre (ABT), the first black woman to achieve the distinction in the theatre’s 75-year history.
For millions of Americans, Copeland’s journey to the pinnacle of her profession is an archetypal story of triumph over adversity. At the Boys & Girls Club where she practised her first ballet steps, today’s visitor is confronted with a painting showing Copeland in a forlorn crouch, forehead resting on her knees. Around her swirl words like “agony”, “hurting”, “desolation”, “hardship” and “rejection”. Next to it is another painting in which Copeland pirouettes like a music box ballerina, music notes spiralling over her head. Nearby, a sign proclaims “Great Futures Start Here”. Copeland is the girl from the wrong side of the tracks who got to stand tall – on pointe shoes. “I’m often asked if I’m OK being referred to as the black ballerina,” she says. “And I say: ‘I don’t think that’s something I want to change.’ We’re still at a point where it needs to be acknowledged all the time.”
It is early afternoon, and in a small waiting area inside Steps on Broadway, one of New York’s best-known dance studios, Copeland sits scrunched up on a bench trying to talk above the din of wailing toddlers as they wait for a class to begin. Although they might not know it, Copeland is the acme of what those little girls dream to be, and a riposte to classical ballet’s long history of exclusion. It’s partly her Cinderella story that has made her a household name in a marginalised art, but it’s also a reflection of the astute way she has parlayed her visibility beyond the world of ballet. She has danced for Prince (in his 2010 Welcome 2 America tour), appeared in a 2014 commercial for Under Armour that quickly went viral, interviewed President Obama and made the cover of Time magazine in 2015 – the first dancer to do so since Bill T Jones in 1994. Her memoir is to be turned into a movie.
Ballet was a place I felt safe. I didn’t have that in any aspect of my life growing up
Predictably, none of that has stopped the envious from turning her success into a question. “People ask: ‘Is she getting this opportunity just because she’s had such a voice, and because she’s black, or is she good enough to get this part?’” says Copeland. “All of these things can mess with you psychologically and emotionally. You’d think it would get easier over time, but for me it gets harder.”
Copeland did not always perceive the prejudice she was up against as plainly as she does today. As an adolescent, dance was a safe harbour where she felt entirely at home. “Going to a school in southern California that was very diverse I never felt like I fitted in,” she says. “But stick me in a ballet studio surrounded by white girls, and I was, like: ‘Oh, I belong here.’ I wasn’t even thinking about the colour of my skin.”
A cripplingly shy child, at her happiest hiding in the closet playing Solitaire or locked in the bathroom listening to Mariah Carey, Copeland was 13 when she discovered dance, a belated epiphany. “Ballet was always an escape,” she says. “It was a place where I felt safe, and I didn’t have that in any aspect of my life growing up. I was so introverted because I felt that something could hurt me. There wasn’t always a man in our house who I trusted, or we weren’t always living in a place where I felt secure, and ballet was this one constant in my life that I could rely on.”
In many ways Copeland’s life is a powerful validation of the idea that talent is innate. “When I saw her in the gym, a tiny malnourished girl who stood with such poise and presence, I couldn’t believe it,” says Cantine. “I just said: ‘I’ll take that one.’” Copeland not only made the squad, she was made captain. But when Cantine recommended Bradley’s ballet class, Copeland was sceptical. “I was, like, ‘Absolutely not – this is as far as I go outside my comfort zone.’” She went to watch, just to please Cantine, dutifully returning every day for two weeks until Bradley persuaded her to join in. Copeland quickly realised she’d found her place. “It was the first time I ever felt beautiful,” she says. “Just to look in the mirror and to be told: ‘You’re what a ballerina looks like.”
Bradley, a former punk rocker who had enjoyed moderate success in the 1980s with a band called the Wigs, took to her new pupil instantly. The affection was mutual. Within eight weeks, Copeland had learned to dance en pointe, a skill that most young ballerinas take years to master. The moment of triumph is recorded in a photograph that Bradley had the foresight to snap: Copeland is ramrod straight on the point of her right foot, a smile suffusing her face. “Cindy was definitely a big part of my growth, not just as a dancer but as a person,” says Copeland. “I had never experienced someone forcing me to voice my opinion, and to communicate. I started to develop skills that were so underdeveloped in me.”
Copeland’s growing intimacy with Bradley came at a time when life at home was getting harder. Her mother, Sylvia DeLaCerna, left one temperamental husband for another, and the family found itself living in a motel, sharing two rooms and pooling loose change to buy food. Copeland found her escape in ballet, but DeLaCerna worried the commute to class was too onerous, and told her daughter to quit. That was when Bradley persuaded DeLaCerna to let Copeland move in with her, sharing a room with her two-year-old son, Wolf. “I’d only been married for two years, and suddenly we had a teenage girl, and she stole our hearts, immediately,” says Bradley. On Fridays, Copeland would make matzo ball soup and light the Sabbath candles. “It just felt like this beautiful thing that they shared, and I think that’s what I was drawn to,” Copeland says. When the Bradleys had a professional family portrait taken, Copeland was part of it.
It’s not difficult to see how this would begin to grate on Copeland’s mother and siblings, who began describing their sister as brainwashed. When those pressures finally exploded, shortly after Copeland won a prestigious award for playing Kitri in her favourite ballet Don Quixote, the fallout was painful and highly public. DeLaCerna decided her daughter no longer needed the Bradleys; in response they encouraged Copeland to petition the courts for emancipation from her parents. DeLaCerna fought back, securing the legendary civil rights lawyer, Gloria Allred. Eventually, Copeland dropped her petition, but the damage was lasting. “It was very traumatic having so much of my life exposed for everyone to see,” she says. “It took 10 years before I could talk about it without crying.” It was no easier for Bradley. “It was a huge void that never healed,” she says. “I had so many things to say to her.” The two would not speak for 15 years.
I was promoted at a late age, so my career as a principal will be shorter than most
In May, Copeland will play Kitri again, but this time in a production for the ABT. It’s the role of a lifetime, one she has dreamed about since seeing her idol, Paloma Herrera, play it in 1996. But Copeland is 34 now, and her journey has been arduous. In 2012, days after her critically lauded debut in the title role of Stravinsky’s Firebird, she discovered six stress fractures in her tibia. It would take seven months of physical therapy before she could return to the stage. Last year, she finally got to reprise her Firebird performance, one of several lead roles she took on as part of the ABT’s spring/summer season, including Odette in Swan Lake. She also married her long-time beau Olu Evans. Her promotion to principal dancer may be a vindication of her hard work, but she knows a dancer’s career is short. “A couple of weeks after I was promoted to principal dancer was the first time I felt: ‘This is the beginning of the end,’” she says. “I was promoted at a very late age for a dancer, so my career as a principal will definitely be shorter than most.” She thinks for a moment. “The scary thing is what will fill that void.” She laughs. “My poor husband.”
We live in an era, to quote dance critic Madison Mainwaring in The Atlantic, “when Kim Kardashian’s selfies get more serious coverage than dancers who have dedicated their lives to their form”. Copeland might be the exception that proves the rule, but the vitality of classical dance in America rides on the trail she’s blazing. At a time of heightened consciousness around black identity, her story has lured new audiences to classical dance. Is it enough? “The ballet world is constantly talking about how we need more exposure, to bring more people in, but they don’t want to change anything about it,” Copeland says, with exasperation. “It doesn’t work that way, something has to change and evolve.”
It’s a bright blue morning in San Pedro, and the city glows after weeks of abnormally high rainfall. In her black Volkswagen Beetle, Bradley is pointing out the landmarks of Copeland’s youth. “Did you see the sign?” she asks, pointing to a plaque that reads “Misty Copeland Square” at an intersection adjacent to the San Pedro Ballet School, a former bakery that Bradley and her husband, Patrick, bought in 1998. The plaque was unveiled just before Christmas in 2015, and if you Google footage of the ceremony, you will see a visibly moved Copeland thanking the Bradleys “for giving me a path and platform to change not only my life, but so many little brown girls’ lives”.
Bradley drives me to her former condo, near a bluff overlooking the ocean. In her memoir, Copeland recalls it smelling of cinnamon and the sea. We sit in the car for a while, and Bradley tells stories of Copeland helping to potty-train Wolf, dancing with him, being a sister. “It seems like yesterday,” she sighs. “I knew it wasn’t going to end well from the start. It was wonderful, but very scary, feeling that every minute was going to be our last.” She pauses. “But it worked out OK.”
Our tour ends where the story begins – at the Boys & Girls Club of San Pedro. Inside the gymnasium, Bradley indicates the lines of benches. “She wasn’t just watching casually – she was absorbing while she was sitting there,” she says, summoning the image. “She didn’t move, she watched intently for a few weeks and kept saying ‘No, no, no’, until finally she stepped on to the floor. She was a skinny, skinny brown girl with pretty hair.”
Ever since Bradley could dance, she has wanted to teach. “I just thought: ‘Everybody needs to know this,’” she says. In Copeland she found her first prodigy. “I touched her foot and that’s when the magic happened,” she says, lost in a private reverie. “I’ve never been able to describe it before, but I knew she was special.” Blinking back tears, she shakes her head in astonishment. “She hadn’t danced!” she says. “It was an angels singing moment.” That same day, Bradley offered Copeland a scholarship, sending a note home to her mother.
We walk back through the club, past the twin posters of Misty Copeland in despair and triumph, the pool table, the vending machine dispensing frozen fruit bars, the spray-painted symbol of the power fist. And as we emerge into the sunlight, Bradley recovers her composure. “I have actually just found my second prodigy – Enrique.” She pulls out her phone. “I’ll show you a picture.” Like Copeland, Enrique started late (at 16), and like Copeland, he is beset by challenges, most having to do with being a Latino man in a world still defined as white and female. “It’s the first I’ve talked about him, because I learned the first time you should not talk about them too much,” says Bradley. She laughs, before adding: “Until you’re ready to lose them.” We both peer at the photo. “This is a while ago, so he’s more spectacular now,” she says, beaming. “He’s got it all.”
Hair and Make-up by Bank using Pacifica at Factory Downtown; Producer Stephanie Porto; Digital Tech Jordan Zuppa; Lighting perry hall and JP Herrera; Set design Chris Stone; location Steps on Broadway, NYC
Life in Motion by Misty Copeland is published by Sphere, £9.99. Order it for £8.49 at bookshop.theguardian.com
Sally Coulthard was inspired to write Studio by a barn on her North Yorkshire farm. It’s not the studio she uses herself for her work as an interiors and garden designer and writer – she prefers an old bureau in her house – but one that she has rented out to an array of crafters and painters. For the past decade, she has watched as each new arrival reinvents the barn to suit their craft.
Chaos reigns in Mark Hearld’s dishevelled attic, a tribute to spontaneity and creative freedom
Some have come armed with tins of white emulsion, aiming to create the perfect backdrop to their bright illustrations. Others, with grand chandeliers and boudoir mirrors, have summoned a Parisian boutique to the North York Moors. The dimensions have never changed and yet the barn has been re-born time and time again according to the needs of its tenants. It was seeing her barn’s flexibility that piqued Coulthard’s interest in studio spaces.
“Anybody writing a book about interior design today is going to meet stiff competition from bloggers on Instagram, Pinterest and Tumblr,” says Coulthard. There is a legion of interior design aficionados online, blogging and pinning coolly composed photos of well-designed interiors every minute of the day. But Studio teems with compelling case studies. These spaces have not been arranged to harvest shares and “likes”. Instead, they are honest, real-life workspaces that, until now, have been kept out of the public eye.
Creating the perfect studio space takes practice, as artist Lisa Congdon knows all too well. Congdon’s brilliantly light garage conversion is her third studio and one that has been 12 years in the making. Working so much with colour, Congdon opts for crisp, white walls and furniture to instil a sense of calm. Her studio is in a detached garage divided into distinct zones, which she says is essential so that she is not “distracted by disorganisation”. There are areas for writing, painting, illustration and shipping.
Congdon’s studio is worlds apart from artist and illustrator Mark Hearld’s dishevelled attic. Here, chaos reigns and inspiration lies strewn on a floor carpeted with clippings. Hearld’s studio is a tribute to spontaneity and creative freedom– though some might say it’s just a mess.
These examples are typical of those that appear in Studio, a book that really celebrates the personality and idiosyncrasy of creative people. Other standout spaces include painter Linda Felcey’s shepherd’s hut, designed and built by her husband following the birth of their children. It comes on wheels so it can be moved to different locations, ideal for her work as a landscape artist inspired by the British countryside and the South Downs.
One of the key reasons for writing this book, Coulthard explains, is to encourage readers to give their creativity the space it deserves. For Coulthard, creating a studio for your craft, however large or small, is the start of a healthy cycle. Acknowledgement that your work deserves its own space is the first step to taking it a little more seriously. With the right environment, creativity flourishes and the quality of the work changes. To this end, Studio provides readers with practical advice on setting up their own workspace regardless of room or budget. From proper studio practice to seating arrangements and natural lighting, every element is considered and explained.
More importantly, it shows creative people that a studio space is not only beneficial for their work, it is also totally achievable.
Studio by Sally Coulthard is published by Jacqui Small at £25 on 16 March. To order a copy for £21.25, go to bookshop.theguardian.com
When the doors of the Birmingham Conservatoire open this summer, and music students walk into their new home, a key jigsaw piece in a fresh cultural quarter for the city will slot into place. But the arrival of this £57m building will mean more than just a substantial investment in the artistic life of Birmingham. For Julian Lloyd Webber, the conservatoire’s principal, it will mark a challenge to the dominance of London’s established musical education colleges.
“Access to a career in making music really should have nothing to do with your background, as it all too often does,” he told the Observer during an exclusive tour of the site in the new east side zone of the city centre. “Birmingham already has a fantastic musical heritage, with its two world-class concert halls – the symphony hall and the town hall. And the conservatoire is already known for its open attitude. We want to build on that.”
Despite the highbrow title “conservatoire”, and all the hi-tech digital equipment being installed, Lloyd Webber promises that the institution, which has recently produced successful musicians such as singer-songwriter Laura Mvula, concert pianist Duncan Honeybourne and conductor Michael Seal, will stay connected to the people living and working around it. He sees the conservatoire as an architectural champion of the people’s music, becoming a venue for all kinds of public performance and academic experimentation.
“It is quite a moment for the country, let alone the city, because this conservatoire, the first to be newly built in Britain since 1987, may well be the last because of the reduction in funding for music,” he said.
The internationally renowned cellist, younger brother of the composer of Evita and The Phantom of the Opera, Lord Lloyd-Webber, suspects music education is “in his blood”. His father, the composer and organist William Lloyd Webber, was director of the London College of Music, and as a child he overheard many discussions about teaching methods and funding negotiations.
“I feel as if I have inherited the interest,” Lloyd Webber said. “And I needed the demands of a big job like this to help me adjust from a performing career.”
In April 2014 the cellist announced his early retirement from the concert hall due to a painful neck condition that limited movement in his right arm. A year later he was appointed principal in Birmingham.
Lloyd Webber’s performing experience had helped him at Birmingham, he said, where he had to present the public face of the conservatoire, as well as teaching cello: “I can handle speaking in public. Let me tell you nothing is as scary as having to go out in front of an audience and play a Britten symphony.”
Staff and students have had to leave the old conservatoire, along with the former Adrian Boult Hall, because of the redevelopment of the Paradise Circus area of the city. The new pale brick structure sits next to the city’s Millennium Point building and between the Birmingham City University campus, the Thinktank science museum, and Birmingham Ormiston Academy for creative, digital and performing arts, known as “the Brummie fame academy”.
The conductor Sir Simon Rattle, who is shortly to return to Britain from the Berlin Philharmonic to conduct the London Symphony Orchestra, is president of the conservatoire and has a close association with the city in which he made his name in the 80s and 90s with the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra. Another supporter is Prince Edward, who is the conservatoire’s patron and is expected to visit when the building is finished.
By then the foyer will be covered with ash floorboards and the main concert hall and the smaller recital room will be oak-panelled. There will be three other performances spaces, each built as separate “boxes” to prevent sound or vibrations from leaking out. A “lab” venue will stage experimental work, while an organ recital room will sit above a dark-panelled jazz club. “We have modelled it on Ronnie Scott’s in London and we’re calling it East Side Jazz,” said Lloyd Webber, 65, adding that, while he enjoyed jazz, he found the idea of improvising difficult. “I played with Stéphane Grappelli once, and the others were happy to play something different each night. I had never learned and I certainly was not going to try it out on Grappelli.”
Above the public areas and venues will be rooms for practising and then the technical control rooms.
During the wait for the new building, the conservatoire has made use of a wide range of public spaces. Lloyd Webber believes this period of risk-taking has been instructional. This weekend saw a typically adventurous bit of programming. The conservatoire staged an all-night “pianothon” inspired by the all-night jazz sessions at Birmingham’s town hall in the 1950s and 60s. Using three Steinway concert grands, period pianos and harpsichords and for a ticket price of one pound, audiences on Friday night and Saturday morning listened to more than 20 pianists.
These included the award-winning Hungarian pianist Gergely Bogányi and the impressionist Alistair McGowan, who played music by Satie and Grieg. Simon Callow recited Tennyson’s poem Enoch Arden to the music of Richard Strauss, and, in the finale, the “Olympianist” Anthony Hewitt cycled up from London through the night, live-streamed to the foyer, arriving at dawn to play Ravel’s Gaspard de la nuit. Primed for such tricks, the new building will be wired not only to cope with emerging sound technologies, but also with the standard analogue sound recording equipment still favoured by some artists, such as violinist Nigel Kennedy.
The conservatoire’s technical team jumped at the chance to equip a building from scratch, future-proofing it as much as possible and fitting it with lighting and recording facilities of broadcast standard. This will also allow teachers and students to interact with musicians across the country and even abroad. (The conservatoire already has a teaching project working with children in Soweto, South Africa.)
Improving access to music is the key aim. In 2009 Lloyd Webber launched the In Harmony social development scheme in Lambeth, south London, inspired by the work of the Simón Bolívar Orchestra and the Sistema scheme in Venezuela, as a way of introducing orchestral music to young children who cannot afford private tuition.
The conservatoire already works with In Harmony Telford and also reaches thousands of other young people across Britain each year. The new building will become an official hub for the wider music education sector and will sponsor selected schools in the Birmingham area.
“It is our job to plug the gaps, as the government continues to pull back on providing music education in schools,” said Lloyd Webber, as he headed off to visit a nearby school.
For Glenn Ligon, the provocative American artist, Barack Obama’s tenure in the White House was notable not just as the first time a black man took the reins of power in the US, but because the president knew about art. And the admiration went both ways: Obama hung Ligon’s work in his private quarters in the White House. This weekend the uncompromising art of the 56-year-old New Yorker favoured by the former president is to take its place in an unusual and timely art show at the British Museum that looks at American ideals and the reality behind them.
The exhibition of the museum’s modern and contemporary prints – The American Dream – and ranges from the dawn of pop art to the present. It covers a range of more than 200 works from 70 artists working between 1960 and 2014. While the show does not mention the current US president by name and delivers no overt message, much of its content is clearly political. The final section of the show will look specifically at the effect of “the war on terror” and the financial crash of 2008. Questions of race, feminism, Aids and identity are all addressed by many of the artists, who include stars of the post-war scene such as Andy Warhol, Robert Rauschenberg and Jasper Johns.
Contemporary prints, which are relatively cheap and accessible, have been collected by the museum since Hogarth’s time. Works for this show have been acquired by curators since the success of the 2008 exhibition, The American Scene: from Hopper to Pollock, although many prints have not been displayed until now because of their size.
Ligon’s work often reproduces lines of text from famous books and essays about the experience of being black and gay in America, printing them again and again across a canvas. “The political,” the artist has explained, “gets turned, through repetition, into a kind of abstraction.”
While he continues to use paint, Ligon has also turned to other methods, such as collage and neon light, for examining what he regards as his country’s illusory offer of equality and prosperity. In the early 1990s, he used Robert Mapplethorpe’s idealised photographs of nude black men and contrasted them with quotes from philosophers, activists, and religious leaders. More recently he made a neon signs of the word AMERICA – but displayed them either upside down, reversed or with the light switched off.
Obama’s chosen Ligon work, the painting Black Like Me #2, repeats the single phrase “All the traces of the Griffin I had been were wiped from existence” in black paint until it blurs into a black mass. The line comes from the white writer John Howard Griffin, who posed as a black man in the southern states of America in 1959 and was widely mistreated.
Ligon was introduced to Obama unexpectedly one evening at a fundraising event in Harlem, New York, and impressed the artist with his attitude to art. “They live with art, they take their children to look at art, they’re not scared of artists. This is not some bullshit,” Ligon has said. The president knew Black Like Me #2 and told him he had a further set of prints hung at the White House, but these had been moved because of potential light damage and he missed them.
Ligon was both reassured and gratified: “It’s not just decoration. He looks at it and knows when it’s not there. It was touching to realise that visual art is an integral part of his and his family’s life. It’s not just window dressing, not something you have to talk about because people expect you to. It was a really great way to meet him.” Speaking at the Art Basel fair in Miami last December, Ligon talked about how he had to “unlearn” his belief that making art meant being white. He also told his audience about his frustration that black artists were still excluded from the established history of art. Explaining his position on those who attempt to label art that criticises society or expresses a minority view, Ligon told the story of a friend who was asked if he was a political artist. “No,” he replied, “I’m a citizen.”
I think the activism and organisation that’s happening now is showing protest matters, calling your representatives matters, becoming involved in community organisations matters, sending your donations every month matters. It has never mattered more to show up with your money, with your body, with your time and with your voice than it does right now. Lots of people had valid criticisms of the Women’s March, but it was the largest global protest we’ve seen and that’s because every single person made the choice to take time off work, to give of themselves, to give their bodies and fill space and show they wanted to say no. That scares people and even if right now we’re not seeing the result we want, the government has been warned. They understand they are not supported. They are fighting an uphill battle against women and allies of equality in all of its forms.Lena Dunham is an actor, writer, producer and director
It’s a source of frustration that, decades on from legislation that was supposed to pave the way for equality of the sexes, too many gaps remain. I have made equality a key feature of my government, with a gender-balanced cabinet, one of very few in the developed world.
However, if there is one specific policy area which can permanently advance the cause of gender equality, I believe the answer lies not in the workplace itself, but in the early years. Delivering high quality childcare as widely as possible is, I believe, fundamental to achieving the kind of equal society that empowers women.
It is a simple fact that, for many women, the barrier to career advancement comes when they are faced with juggling the competing demands of a job and raising a family. And in too many cases, the lack of adequate childcare becomes a decisive factor in preventing women from continuing their careers.
Improving access and affordability in childcare is not an easy challenge – and of itself will not solve all gender equality issues. But it is a challenge which must be met if we are to deliver a society which truly has equality of opportunity for men and women.Nicola Sturgeon MSP is First Minister of Scotland
I represent women in the Afghanistan parliament, in a country that is one of the worst places to live as a woman. We suffer from violence, insecurity and lack of access to basic rights, such as education and health. We tried many things, such as investing in civil society organisations, education and democratic processes, but still Afghanistan stays the same. My analysis is that in order to ensure women’s rights and equality in Afghanistan, and generally all around the world, we need to involve women in the production process, empowering women economically. We also need policies to make sure that the process of development is “bottom to top”, completely the opposite of what is practised right now. Women’s inclusion in political, economic and social aspects of development can stabilise society by consistently empowering women and involving them in high-level decision-making processes.Naheed Farid was elected MP in 2010 at the age of 27
As I watched Donald Trump’s inauguration, I noticed something familiar in the body language between him and Melania. My mind flipped back to President Jacob Zuma’s inauguration in 2009. He didn’t even look back to see whether his wife was comfortable. She trotted behind, with shoes that were too big for her. She could have tripped and he would not have noticed.
People have written about Trump and Zuma’s disdain for the judiciary, the constitution, media and civil liberties. But they are similar in other ways, including their public devaluing of women. Trump’s tape about women throwing themselves at you, if you are famous, reminded me of Zuma’s statement when accused of rape. “I am not afraid of women. They are attracted to me. Why would I rape?” Zuma must be envying Trump, though. He is unable to reverse the Constitutional Court decision enabling women to make choices about reproductive rights, bodily integrity and freedom of choice. His ANC is unlikely to garner enough votes to change the Bill of Rights.
Contesting these men requires a careful unmasking of their devious narratives, combined with civic action in defence of our freedoms. This must be a well-planned and sustained struggle against misogynistic bullies.Nomboniso Gasa is a South African researcher, writer and analyst on land, politics, gender and cultural issues
There is a single, clear action that experts agree could make a substantial difference. For the past decade, campaigners, teachers, parents and pupils alike have urged successive governments to implement compulsory sex and relationships education (SRE) for all young people, including topics such as consent, healthy relationships, pornography, gender stereotypes and LGBT rights and relationships. Schools are currently only obliged to teach the biological basics of reproduction by the age of 15, with no compulsory coverage of issues, such as consent.
This would help protect vulnerable children who may already be experiencing sexual abuse. It would create change for the many girls who report “unwanted sexual touching” – a form of sexual assault. And, by educating young people about their rights and responsibilities, it could have an impact on the broader problem of sexual violence. With 85,000 women raped annually and two women per week killed by a current or former partner in England and Wales, this is an urgent priority.
We know that young people today face a bombardment of influences, from sexting to pornography. If we teach children how to read maps so they can find their way, and how to do maths so they can work out their change in a shop, why do we leave them shockingly ill-equipped to navigate sexual relationships, a similarly universal life experience? With 43% of young people reporting they don’t receive any SRE at all, we are failing them and letting wider society down as well.Laura Bates is founder of the Everyday Sexism Project
I’ve always watched a lot of TV and when I was younger watched EastEnders. As an east Londoner it felt close enough to reality that I would get excited when they filmed on location – trying to point out landmarks and guess the road. Soaps don’t fully reflect reality, but they do try to stay current. These days most characters have a mobile phone and technology sometimes features in storylines.
In the battle for gender equality I’d like to see the soaps embrace some new careers for their characters – particularly the female ones.
“Where’s Dot?”
“Oh, she’s just taking air quality measurements in the square for her PhD thesis, she’ll meet us at the Queen Vic.”
Normalising science and tech-related careers can start with a female character or two deciding to leave work at the chippy for a job at a digital start-up. Someone in Hollyoaks might strike up an affair with someone they’ve met on an evening coding course (affairs happen all the time on soaps). Seeing these characters have breakfast, and fight with family while enjoying science, technology, engineering and mathematics (Stem) careers will work against the one-sided portrayals of Stem characters that we see in films and on TV. The small screen can do what Hollywood is beginning to do with films, like Hidden Figures – the story of African-American women who helped Nasa.Anne-Marie Imafidon MBE campaigns to get women into science, technology, engineering and maths
The answer for me is chasing gender equality in China. It has become my daily life, making noises against all the discrimination. And when we meet the backlash, we have to stand together and fight back. As a woman, I have no country: my country is the whole world. So I will also criticise Donald Trump, who is a straight man cancer.
In China, the space for civil movement is becoming more narrow. One of the most powerful Weibo [China’s Twitter] accounts, Feminism Voice, has been blocked for publishing an article about the planned women’s strike against Trump in the US. Thus, no single issue belongs to one country, we must fight together against the censoring of women’s voices.Li Maizi is one of China’s “feminist five”, detained for more than a month in 2015 for organising a protest against sexual harassment on buses and subways
There’s no single fix because the mechanisms keeping women down are intertwined. However, one of the seven core objectives of the Women’s Equality Party – equal parenting and caregiving – is capable on its own of creating huge change. If we can shake the idea that childcare is primarily a mother’s responsibility, if we learn to value the unpaid labour now primarily undertaken by women, then we also unpick some of the causes of the gender pay gap. There are also ways to speed the process. In 1975, when 90% of Icelandic women left jobs and homes for the day, their male compatriots learned just how much women do. Iceland now ranks as the world’s most gender-equal country. I’m helping to organise a Women’s Day Off in the UK next year.Catherine Mayer is the co-founder of the Women’s Equality Party and author of Attack of the Fifty Foot Women: How Gender Equality Can Save the World!
The change we need to make is mobilisation. We have to sound the alarm. The worst thing we can do is despair. My message is, don’t stand aside, get stuck in. Don’t be a click-avist. Keep asking: “What next?” If you go on a march and think: “That’s the job done,” they win. A backlash is a reaction, so we have to keep taking action. I keep saying to people, I adore Martin Luther King, but he was wrong when he said: “The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends towards progress.” It doesn’t, unless you fight for it.Stella Creasy is MP for Walthamstow. Join her Feminist Action Network (stella@workingforwalthamstow.org.uk)
The face of feminism I’m surrounded by is young and fresh. Feminism has the potential to be a bright, vibrant movement. But it’s difficult. There are so many pressing issues for women. What’s really important is economic empowerment. I think as a woman of colour it’s important that we are running our own businesses, able to support each other and generating our own income to support other young women of colour who are coming up in the world. As a black female graduate you’re likely to earn a lot less than your white male counterparts. You’re increasingly seeing women of colour in positions of power, but there are still not enough of us in prominent positions.Liv Little is editor-in-chief at gal-dem
You know what make us strong? All the things you think are a hindrance. Our strength is our “weakness”. Our love of silly things to wear. Our love of jokes. On the Women’s March, there were millions of “weak” women with buggies, with elderly relatives – women who are disabled, or from “minority” groups – wearing pink hats and holding placards. And our strength is, you can’t send armed police into a crowd like that. There’s no way to spin that footage. You can’t pretend it’s violent, radical extremists. There’s no excuse to break it up. The weaker, sillier and funnier we are, the more impossible it is to demonise us, or stop us, as so many protests have been stopped and demonised before. As things go backwards, we think: “We can’t fight this,” and the answer is – we mustn’t fight it.
Fighting is how it’s always been done before. They know how to stop fighters. But these old, white, straight, angry men? They don’t know how to stop joy, humour, knitted pink hats and buggies. We are the force they’ve never seen before. They have nothing in their box to counter this. This is our strength. And we have it in endless amounts. We are the 52%. And we can knit and joke the fuck out of the revolution.Caitlin Moran is an author and columnist
In a time of threat, the places we might be able to call home, our bodies, are being ripped apart by commercial pressures. They bear down on labias (too messy), faces (too tired), lips (too small), eyes (too hooded), breasts (too small, droopy or large)… For each of these crazy designations, there are surgeries sold as empowering, sold as safe, sold as solutions. But what’s the problem and who is generating it? Control girls’ and women’s bodies – whether by the purveyors of “beauty”, the cultural enforcers of female genital cutting, the anti-choice gang in the White House – and insecurity is induced. Give girls as young as three cosmetic surgery games that divert their dreaming and imaginative energy into pursuits that hurt what it means to be a girl, and you ensure big profits and big body preoccupations for a lifetime. It’s time to dare to feel OK in our bodies as they age and change.Susie Orbach is a psychotherapist, analyst and writer
If your push for social justice excludes women of colour – or disabled women, trans women, sex workers, Muslims, Jews, poor people – you don’t want equality, you want privilege. Promoting women of the same class and colour while ignoring and speaking over women less privileged than yourself isn’t feminism. It’s supremacism. I come from a mixed-race family. I like to think I know a little bit about racism. But I’m not black. So I listen. I follow feminists from minority backgrounds on social media: Reni Eddo-Lodge, Nesrine Malik, Janet Mock, Phyll Opoku-Gyimah, Fatima Manji, Roxane Gay. Most women voted for Hillary in the US election, but a significant proportion – white women without a college degree – voted for Trump. In the end, their votes swung it. This is what can happen when women don’t pull together. So let’s pull together. Fascism is back. Women are leading the resistance, but if we really want decency to prevail, it’s time to revive another idea from the mists of time: solidarity.Paris Lees is a journalist and transgender rights activist
I’ve been a feminist since my lungs first filled with air, but I’m weary of war and eager for a coalition. In my small corner of the western world it’s hard to find a man who doesn’t believe his daughter, his wife, his sister, his mother or his colleagues to be his equal, yet we continue to mark out our battle lines on a gendered basis. No social revolution in the history of mankind has succeeded without the participation of both sexes so it’s time to invite the guys aboard. Instead of car ads that accept a woman can control a vehicle (doh!) I’m more hopeful for one that entices a man to try a vacuum cleaner. Our ability to participate in a man’s world is beyond dispute, but the jury’s still out on our success in enticing men into what was once our domain. The proportion of women doing the world’s unpaid work has barely changed. The only difference is that most women today are holding down two jobs. It is stress levels, not our incomes, that are rising. Expectations of both sexes have changed beyond measure and the conversation needs to stop being so one-sided, which is why we’ve set up Great Men, opening conversations with boys in secondary schools exploring masculinity and gender issues. If we want to eradicate misogyny, we need to make sure boys are given the support and emotional investment they need.Mariella Frostrup is a broadcaster, columnist and co-founder of the Great Initiative
An issue for women throughout the world that is implicitly played down by lack of adequate attention is fear. The topic is broad and the specifics are difficult to address through existing systems, but whether it is physical violence, online stalking, harassment, or unwanted encounters at work or in schools, women are prevented from living their best possible lives and from contributing in the most significant ways. Current systems address only very explicit danger. Even when the attacks are merely upsetting, the resultant loss of diverse voices – online and elsewhere – because of women’s reluctance to be subject to insults or insinuations, is a loss to us all.Lisa Randall is professor of science at Harvard University
Leading British historians are calling for the return of a huge hoard of UK art treasures that has gone missing in the United States.
The works – a slice of the nation’s cultural history – range from ship-loads of paintings and sculptures to entire interiors from old houses, transported across the Atlantic as part of the largest movement of art and architecture since the Renaissance. The former V&A director, Sir Roy Strong, is one of the academics calling for Britain’s vanished heritage to be found.
The extent of the lost art and architecture has emerged since the launch in January of an appeal to find a Tudor oak parlour “missing” from Gwydir castle in north Wales. The ornate panelling and a fireplace were bought by the US billionaire William Randolph Hearst in the 1920s and were last seen at his palatial home in New York in the 1930s.
Efforts to find the room, one of two from the castle sold to Hearst, have so far failed. But the search has brought to light the greatest single loss of cultural artefacts from Britain. Though many pieces shipped across the Atlantic passed into public collections in the US, and some worldwide, the fate of the bulk of the material is unknown.
Hearst, fictionalised by Orson Welles in the film Citizen Kane, was an obsessive collector of European – especially British – art and architecture. He was dubbed “the great accumulator” by one dealer. Rumours persist that sealed Hearst containers remain in storage.
The largest Hearst storage site is in the Bronx, New York, but other warehouses are believed to exist across the country. His fantasy medieval castle at San Simeon, California – Xanadu in the film – displays many works, though they are thought to be only around 10% of his entire collection. More than 90 rail wagons brought treasures to San Simeon, and one of the final scenes in Citizen Kane shows an endless vista of crated art at Xanadu.
Hearst was one of several super-rich Americans vying to amass art and antiques. John D Rockefeller, JP Morgan and Henry Clay Frick were also major players, with an extensive “second tier” of buyers below them.
For nearly 60 years, from the 1880s, items from Italy, France, Spain, Germany and Greece were snapped up, but Britain was the richest source. The trade was frenzied. When the Titanic sank in 1912, 30 tons of crated English architectural objects were on board. Entire historic interiors would be acquired – panelling, fireplaces, doors, paintings, timbers and plaster ceilings, libraries and tapestries – and shipped as job lots, often without an inventory. Artworks in particular were sold “en bloc” – by quantity – by dealers with no detailed description.
Over time, US galleries and museums came to own some of the items. Georgian rooms bought by Hearst, taken from Sutton Scarsdale Hall in Derbyshire, were used as film sets in Hollywood before ending up at the Huntington Library collection, California. Other Sutton Scarsdale rooms are held by the Philadelphia Museum of Art.
In the 1990s, the owners of Gwydir traced one of the castle’s two missing interiors, a 1640s room, to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, which acquired it from Hearst. The room had been stored at the museum for decades, and the owners bought and reinstated it.
The extent of exports of British art and antiques to America is known to a few academics, but Gwydir’s search for its lost room has brought this episode out of the shadows. Now calling for a concerted effort to find the lost heritage are the pre-eminent historians Sir Roy Strong and John Harris.
Strong told the Observer: “There were ship-loads of early English portraits exported, not just grand things. There were interesting Elizabethan and other pictures. Back then, you wouldn’t have got 50 quid for an Elizabethan painting.
“It was the fashion, the English ‘Tudorbethan’. There’s English sculpture – how much of that went to America? We don’t know. There were no export controls. Records just went over to America, those of fantastic gardens, for instance. The fate of the rooms has never been highlighted.
“A large proportion of Britain’s art history from the 16th to 18th centuries may be missing.”
John Harris, who, with Marcus Binney – founder of SAVE Britain’s Heritage – campaigned in the 1970s to prevent heritage neglect, shares Strong’s concern. Harris is the only historian to have studied the export of artefacts from the UK. “I lived in New York in the early 1960s,” Harris told the Observer. “Around 20 houses on Park Avenue alone had old English rooms. Hundreds, if not in the low thousands, of items [are unaccounted for]. Some of the finest craftsmanship. At least 200 rooms were taken apart.
“We have underestimated the number of [historic] rooms in the US. It is unclear what is in storage, what the Hearst people have. It is odd that there has never been an effort to identify what is in the States.”
The scale of the buying was historic. “Only the Renaissance princes were spending on an equivalent scale,” says Dr Mark Westgarth, art historian at Leeds University and a specialist in the art trade. “One of the reasons why heritage laws began in Britain was to stop the flood of material to America.
“Hearst was notorious for buying pieces then leaving them in storage.”
By the late 1930s, Hearst’s empire faced bankruptcy and, in 1941, 20,000 lots were auctioned off at New York department stores Gimbels and Saks. “There hasn’t been sufficient awareness of this aspect of what has been exported to America,” says Harris. “That was seriously to this country’s loss.
“A lot of the documentary records have vanished, dealers’ papers especially. Years ago, I searched the records of one, French & Company, and Hearst without success. I’ve always been told there are Hearst stores in the US, difficult to access. Efforts must be made to examine Hearst sites and open containers. But I’m past it now.”
Those looking after the surviving Hearst archives believe there is much to be discovered. “The whereabouts of a lot of the items Hearst bought are not known,” says Dr Catherine Larkin of the William Randolph Hearst Archive at Long Island University, New York.
“Things have gone missing by being placed in homes which might not exist any more, or are still in one of Hearst’s many warehouses.”
This was supposed to be a British answer to America’s late night entertainment giants. A nightly mix of topical monologues, comedy sketches and chat modelled on the format that turned Johnny Carson, David Letterman and a host of men named Jimmy into stars and recently helped James Corden become a US household name.
Unfortunately for ITV its much-trailed new nightly talkshow, The Nightly Show, presented in its first week by David Walliams, with John Bishop, Davina McCall, Sue Perkins and Mel Giedroyc lined up for future slots, turned out to be more damp squib than firecracker with reviews variously calling it “awkward”, “unfunny” and “as flat as a Shrove Tuesday pancake”.
By the end of the week media outlets were dissecting the show’s sharp drop in ratings from 2.8 million viewers on Monday to 1.2 million on Tuesday. ITV argued that these were largely driven by the programme on air beforehand with big hits such as Broadchurch and Benidorm understandably driving more traffic than lacklustre fare like Play To The Whistle, however it’s worth noting that on Thursday the Prime Suspect prequel drew 5.3 million viewers of whom only 1.7 million stayed to watch The Nightly Show. Of far greater concern, however, was the related drop in viewers of the ITV News at Ten, which struggled to pull in more than a million in its new 10.30pm slot amid growing rumours that ITV has conceded the 10 o’clock news slot to the BBC and will instead aim find a commercial hit.
So why didn’t The Nightly Show wow? Is it even possible for a UK channel to create a successful chatshow following the US mould? And is there anything that ITV can do to turn things around? The answer to the first question is largely one of format and tone; the second and third: maybe but it depends on what they hope to achieve.
“These five-night-a-week shows don’t seem to work in the UK – maybe we don’t have the money to pay enough writers to come up with good enough gags,” says Bruce Dessau, editor of the comedy website Beyond The Joke.
“With The Nightly Show, specifically, there was just a general awkwardness about the first week. The interviews are too short and not very relaxed – on ITV a 30-minute slot is more like 23 minutes, which means the interviews are way too quick and superficial. That said, I do think you have to give them a little bit of leeway at the start. When Walliams interviewed Rob Brydon, for example, they’re friends and had more time together and the chemistry worked.”
Television critic Michael Hogan agrees, saying that the problem is one of execution. “The format is derivative but pretty solid,” he says. “The problem is one of tone. I think we do chatshows very well, from Parky to Harty, Wogan to Wossy, Norton to Alan Carr. It’s when we’ve tried to ape the Carson/Letterman/Jay Leno model that it’s gone less well.”
But why is that? It’s partially a question of slickness, but also of substance. “David Letterman welcoming Hollywood stars on to a big glossy set is a lot slicker than David Walliams interviewing Martin Clunes in a London theatre,” says Hogan. British chatshows such as The Graham Norton Show and The Jonathan Ross Show do nod to the US format, with Ross in particular clearly a fan of Carson and Letterman, but they also bring something of their own to the mix. Norton’s relaxed atmosphere and willingness to go with the flow allows his guests to spark off each other (who can forget Lady Gaga’s love-in with EastEnders’ June Brown?), while Ross, a genuine film fan, is a witty host, albeit one whose show has been lacking star power of late.
By contrast, The Nightly Show doesn’t seem sure what it wants to be. Is it a broad light-entertainment show, as ITV’s director Kevin Lygo suggested during pre-show publicity? A witty nightly news show? A star-powered daily chatshow? The mix of topical comedy and sketches, which Lygo described as “covering some of the territory” of US behemoth Saturday Night Live, doesn’t quite hang together and there’s too often a sense that everything might shoot off the rails before grinding to a halt.
“Part of the problem is that in the US there’s a complicit way in which the host interacts with the audience to give an almost conspiratorial mood that doesn’t quite translate over here,” says cultural historian Joe Moran, author of Armchair Nation: An Intimate History of Britain in Front of the TV. “It’s also that hosting and putting together these types of shows is exhausting. It’s a very demanding format and American networks, being bigger, are better able to cope with those demands.”
Corden might have succeeded because he’s smart – but Carpool Karaoke wouldn’t have been as huge with British pop stars
Nor does the decision to change the host every week, presumably in the hope it will generate audience and media buzz, help with coherence and flow. “The stunt hosting is a mistake,” says Dessau. “They should have had more confidence in one big name and given them the permanent job from day one. As it is, just as Walliams beds in he will be gone, same with the other guest hosts.” Hogan agrees. “The revolving host is a huge error,” he says, adding there’s a sense the UK is less attuned to the format. “A lot of Daily Show viewers in the US, for example, use it as a primary news source but we’re a bit more news-obsessed here. We’re a much smaller country and we have a different press culture.”
It’s also true that in contrast to Michelle Obama doing Carpool Karaoke with Corden, or Hugh Jackman yucking it up with Letterman’s replacement Stephen Colbert, The Nightly Show’s guest roster was both parochial and, rather more worryingly, too often linked to other ITV programmes. Thus Monday night saw Martin Clunes talking about the long-running drama Doc Martin while a later episode featured “all four judges from The Voice”. “It’s all a bit in-house pluggy,” says Hogan.
Despite this, ITV remains bullish about The Nightly Show’s chances. “We know that the figures will vary from night to night but it’s early days. In a creative business you have to experiment. We’re trying something new and different here and we’re just getting our head down and concentrating on making a good show.”
Yet while they should be applauded for taking that risk, Moran says audience viewing patterns tend to fall back on the familiar. Thus it’s easier to launch a late-night comedy chatshow in the US where the concept is an institution than in the UK where we prefer our daily talkshows at a different time, as evidenced by the previous success of The Paul O’Grady Show, which aired at teatime on ITV, and the current popularity of BBC One’s 7pm chatshow, The One Show. “The success [of these shows] proves that there is an audience for light-hearted daily chatshows. It’s just an audience at a different time of day,” says Moran. “One of the big themes of my book was the power of habit. It’s nearly impossible to predict why something will become a hit or what makes a winning formula but we can say that people get into habits of TV watching and in this country our rhythms are less attuned to a nightly show of that kind in that slot.”
Maureen Ryan, television critic for Variety, agrees. “In the US the format is certainly viewed as a way to recap the day and begin the process of winding down before going to sleep,” she says. “People do funny topical jokes, a few celebrities come out to promote their movies or music and it’s generally a light, ideally enjoyable way to end the day.”
She says the right host is key. “The humour on a late-night show can occasionally be biting and the interviews can occasionally be tense but generally what’s required is a host who is light on their feet and witty without necessarily being off-putting or overly cruel. It’s a hard skill to hone or acquire but there are a lot of comedians from the UK like James Corden and Craig Ferguson as well who are really good at being spontaneously funny and having a laugh without being too chilly or too nasty.” With that in mind is there anything ITV can do to up its game? Hogan says that even Corden, the darling of the US late-night circuit thanks to his assured hosting of The Late Late Show, might have struggled selling the format in the UK. “He might have succeeded because he’s smart, hard-working, talented and surrounds himself with good people – but Carpool Karaoke wouldn’t have been as huge with British pop stars.”
Despite that, Hogan believes the audience is out there for a US-style mix of chatshow and topical comedy. It’s just a matter of finding the right tone and host. “Charlie Brooker shows flashes of it on Wipe but I’m not sure he’s quite warm enough. The Last Leg [Channel 4’s late night topical news show] tends to be overlooked but it’s the closest we’ve got right now.”
Dessau agrees. “The right person could crack it though they’d have a harder job on ITV than on BBC where the show would be at least a full 30 minutes,” he says. “If it were a late night BBC show I’d suggest Charlie Brooker or maybe Phoebe Waller-Bridge but ITV at 10pm needs big ratings to justify moving the news, which is a very tough nut to crack.”
THREE THAT WORKED
PARKINSON (BBC1 1971-2004, ITV 2004-07)  The grandfather of all British chat shows, Parky’s interviews were fascinating (Muhammad Ali), fatherly (a young David Beckham) and occasionally furious (Meg Ryan).
THE GRAHAM NORTON SHOW (BBC2 2007-09, BBC1 2009-present) Norton’s relaxed charm masks a strong interview technique. He lands A-list stars because of an ability to keep things light without being sycophantic.
THE LAST LEG (C4, 2012 to present) This smart, savvy mix of chat and satire is the nearest thing we have to a US-style late night show.
AND THREE THAT DIDN’T
DAVINA (BBC1, Feb – April 2006) Davina McCall’s show lasted for two disastrous months – here’s hoping she fares better hosting The Nightly Show later this year.
LILY ALLEN AND FRIENDS
2008 (BBC3 February – April 2008) The opinionated pop star’s talkshow made headlines when audience members walked out during the first episode. The show limped on for seven more.
THE MICHAEL MCINTYRE CHAT SHOW
(BBC1 March – December 2014) The BBC reportedly paid McIntyre £500,000, confident that the popular comedian would deliver a primetime hit. He didn’t.
It’s 11am and the Pawar family are dressed to impress. The women have put on sparkling saris and the men are in clean, ironed shirts. The man of the moment, eight-year-old Sunny, the child star of the Oscar-nominated film Lion, is inside the house, getting his face aggressively powdered by an aunt, while an uncle sprays him with perfume and adjusts his oversized jacket. I’ve come at a bad time, clearly, but the family are polite enough to invite me to stay as they prepare for a photo op with a local politician.
The domestic chaos is a stark contrast to the glitzy, star-studded life Sunny has led for the past three months while touring America to promote the film. Sunny plays a young Saroo Brierley, who was separated from his biological mother aged five before being adopted by Australian parents. The film, based on Brierley’s autobiography, A Long Way Home, has received international acclaim, including six Academy Award nominations and two Bafta wins.
Sitting outside his family home in the Kunchi Kurve Nagar slum near Mumbai’s airport, Sunny recalls being whisked around the world with an international film crew. “It was like a dream,” he says. Neither he nor his father had left India. “First Kolkata, then Indore, then Australia and then America for three months.”
The whirlwind journey ended last week after the Oscars, where a beaming Sunny was lifted into the air by the host Jimmy Kimmel, as The Lion King’s title track played in the background. Some have criticised Kimmel for using Sunny as a prop in a racist joke, but Sunny doesn’t see it that way. “It was fun. I loved it,” he says.
Sunny and his father returned to India on a flight that landed at 2am on Wednesday. A swarm of local news crews and journalists greeted them at the airport along with a mob of relatives. “He has brought a good name to our whole family,” says Raviraj, a distant relative who was there. “We all went and nobody knew where the arrival gate was, so all of us were squashed in that airport lift, going up and down until we found him.”
“They beat drums, they set off fireworks,” says Dilip, Sunny’s father. “They brought flowers and covered him with garlands. The reporters crowded around him, ‘Sunny look here, Sunny do this’. They even came back to our house with us, and they stayed until 4am. They wouldn’t leave until Sunny’s grandfather shouted at them for harassing the kid,” he says.
In Mumbai, home to the world’s most prolific film industry, making it into the movies is the epitome of success. Thousands of people travel to the city from small towns and villages around the country every day, hoping to be cast in a Bollywood blockbuster. But with a tightly knit, powerful film fraternity that rarely embraces outsiders, successes like Sunny’s are few and precious. “He was selected from over 2,000 children,” says Dilip. “They came to his school to do auditions, and the director says he was a natural in front of the camera.”
Sunny’s family are from humble origins. His father used to sweep streets, but was fired for having too many days off to take Sunny to auditions. For the past two years, he has been Sunny’s business manager, touring the world and helping him practise lines on set. “I never, ever thought I’d reach this point in my life,” says Dilip. “My first son, and he has made me so proud.”
The film has turned Sunny into a local hero. Posters slapped on the slum’s walls read: “Congratulations Sunny on your achievement.” Outside the house, the family have set up a stage, carpeted in red and covered in confetti left over from a welcome home ceremony. There is a floor-to-ceiling photo montage of Sunny meeting American celebrities, as well as Barack Obama and Bill Clinton.
Children from the slum who wander past after school point excitedly at the pictures, whispering, “That’s Sunny meeting the Rock,” referring to the WWE wrestler-turned-actor, Dwayne Johnson. All of them claim they’ve watched Sunny’s film, though it’s easy to call their bluff as none of them recognises Dev Patel, the film’s lead actor, who also starred in Slumdog Millionaire. “He must be some singer or something,” says one child. “No, he’s Sunny’s acting coach,” says another.
“He was just a normal little boy,” says Vasu, Sunny’s mother. “Now everybody says, ‘Oh, a Hollywood star lives in our neighbourhood’. Overnight, I’ve become the mother of a movie star.” She admits she hasn’t seen the film yet. “I was waiting for Sunny and his dad to come home so we could watch it together, as a family. But I’m so proud.”
Sunny was only five when he started auditioning for the role of Saroo. Between travelling to locations for shoots, he attends the government-run Air India Modern school where, he says, he gets none of the benefits of being a movie star. “None of the kids treat me differently. It’s exactly the same as before. They haven’t even seen the film,” he says.
The role has given Sunny new ambitions. “I want to work in Hollywood, Bollywood, everything,” he says. “I’ve learned so much, like the sign language of the director for example. When he signals, I know I have to be sad,” he says. “It’s hard work. You have to follow all their instructions and you have to try to show real emotion, from the heart.”
“Nobody ever taught him to act. He learned it on his own by watching TV,” says Dilip. “He loves watching Rajinikanth,” he says, referring to a south Indian actor whose film release dates have been declared holidays by companies in an effort to avoid hundreds of staff requests for leave.
“I like his action scenes,” says Sunny, jumping in. “I hope I can work in an action movie like that one day.”
Though Dilip and Sunny’s tour of America coincided with Donald Trump’s arrival in the White House, they remained oblivious to rising anti-immigrant sentiment sweeping the country. “We got there when Obama was still president so we didn’t have any visa troubles like I know others have,” Dilip says, in reference to Asghar Farhadi, the Iranian film-maker who could not travel to America to receive his Oscar because of Trump’s travel ban. “We did not feel for a second like foreigners there. The people there have done so much for us,” says Dilip. “When you go to work, they give you so much respect and love. The whole public is appreciating Sunny, they made him a suit to wear, they took him to the Oscars. They treated us like we were members of their family, really. There was no question about race or religion.”
Despite their new fame, the family still live in their same small house. I ask naively to see Sunny’s bedroom. Dilip laughs. “This is chawl, madam. There are no bedrooms here,” he says, referring to labourers’ accommodation. He shows me a brightly coloured room with peeling paint and bare walls, except a Ganesh-themed calendar. “Here we roll out mattresses and sleep.”
Outside, in a metal cupboard, the family keep their valuables. Perfumes and jewellery are pulled out, tested and replaced, as they rush to get ready to visit the local politician who has asked to meet Kunchi Kurve Nagar’s new star. I ask how many people live under the same roof. “It’s our whole extended family,” Dilip says. “I’ve never counted but it must be more than 50 of us.”
Sunny’s family were initially reluctant to let him work in the film. “One of Sunny’s aunts had cancer, she was very sick. At that time, we were trying to sort out all his passport, visas, so he could travel. Then she died, and in our tradition, you have to spend a month in mourning. So we were going to pull out of the whole thing,” Dilip recalls. “I had told the producers no, we can’t come. But then the family really supported us. They said, no you have to go, it’s such a big opportunity for Sunny. And he really wanted to do it. So we went.”
Two taxis pull up outside the house and the family pile in. The politician is waiting, one relative says, hinting that our interview has concluded. I ask Dilip what he plans for Sunny’s future, and whether he will go back to work. “Let’s see,” he says. “For now, all our days are filled with doing interviews and meet-and-greets. Sunny will go back to school, he will take his exams. But maybe he will get more film work. Who knows? We haven’t planned anything.”
One Direction singer Louis Tomlinson has been arrested at Los Angeles airport after an altercation with a paparazzi photographer. The 25-year-old singer was taken into custody before being released on a $20,000 (£16,000) bond and instructed to return to court on 29 March. Footage of the alleged incident was published by Radar Online.
The singer was reportedly with his girlfriend Eleanor Calder when the confrontation, which happened on Friday, took place. Police documents showed Tomlinson was subjected to a citizen’s arrest. Calder then argued with onlookers who had begun filming the incident.
TMZ.com reported that the photographer was too close for Tomlinson’s comfort, “so he allegedly pulled the photographer to the floor by his legs. The photographer fell backwards and struck his back and head on the floor.”
According to the celebrity news site, “A female witness started recording Louis’ GF as she tried to leave. The two women allegedly then got into a physical altercation.”
Lawyer Martin Singer told TMZ: “The paparazzi provoked and caused the altercation that occurred with Louis at the airport this morning. While the altercation was going on with the paparazzi, three other individuals were attacking his girlfriend during this incident and he came to her defence.”
The incident took place as the couple were returning to Los Angeles from a holiday in Las Vegas. Tomlinson is reportedly working on a solo career while One Direction are on hiatus. The group remain one of the most successful boy bands of all time.
A good music documentary can get you excited about an artist or scene you’ve never heard of, but this one, on Glasgow indie label Chemikal Underground, assumes you’re already a convert, and probably a middle-aged bloke. Even if you are, you might feel slightly deflated by this subdued nostalgia trip, which returns the label’s key figures (chiefly, members of the Delgados and Mogwai, plus Alex Kapranos, latterly of Franz Ferdinand) to the French town of Mauron, where they played an apparently seminal festival in 1997. “Apparently” because there’s virtually no record of the original event. Instead, we get six musicians reminiscing about the 90s glory days before playing a low-key gig in a cafe. The musicians are talented, thoughtful and charming, and their story says plenty about the decline of the music industry. But it feels like we’re getting the comedown without having had the high. They’d have been better off staying in Glasgow.
As anyone who witnessed A Tribe Called Quest booting a border wall to bits at the Grammys will attest, this is an unusually lively time for politically minded pop music of all stripes. Of course, the downside to such engagement is that for every Lemonade you’re likely to get 10 sixth-form common-room jam bands wailing about “TONY B-LIAR”. Dumb Blood, the debut album from London outfit Vant, unquestionably falls into the latter camp. Workaday nu-grunge in sound, it distinguishes itself from the pack with vocalist Mattie Vant’s toe-curlingly gauche lyrics: think Bush if Gavin Rossdale had skim-read Chomsky for Dummies in WH Smith before recording Razorblade Suitcase. Opener The Answer boils down the “special relationship” to the thoughtful couplet “You’re from England, well Hello there my brother / Keep sucking my dick, while my friend fucks your mother,” while Peace and Love only just falls short of calling for the world to sing in perfect harmony. “It’s time to wake up”, Vant wrote in a mission statement letter accompanying Dumb Blood’s release. If this is the soundtrack to the revolution, a lie-in looks preferable.
Only John Waters could stage a Charles Manson-style slaughter then think: “This could really do with a giant-lobster rape scene to spruce it up.”
This restored 1970 film is rough around the edges even by Waters’ own lo-fi standards, but it’s still gleefully subversive, outrageously trashy and, possibly, shocking. Shock is very much the name of the game when Divine’s modern-day freak show rolls into suburbia, promising fetishists, a “puke-eater” and “two actual queers kissing”. She later receives a “rosary job” in a church, courtesy of lesbian seductress Mink Stole (a scene you can’t imagine any priest gave them permission to shoot), which leads to a tangle of lurid murder plots.
Some of the camerawork is equally shocking, it must be said, and many scenes ramble on too long, but there’s still the feeling that this is the work of a genuine group of outsiders, rebelling against all society had – bourgeois respectability, hippie values, religion, professionalism – and having a great time doing it.
With their namesake, bassist Daniel Fenech-Soler, having exited the band last year alongside fellow co-founder Andrew Lindsay, these days the Northamptonshire outfit operate solely as a vehicle for the remaining members, brothers Ross and Ben Duffy. Zilla is the third album in the band’s career, which began promisingly in 2010 with a track called Stop and Stare, a nicely melodic slice of synth-laden electropop. With nothing since then having made much of an impact, Zilla feels like the brothers’ attempt to breath new life into the band. In some ways they have succeeded: this record is energetic, hook-filled and sonically diverse enough to not to lapse into the uniformity that blights so much of the genre. But it also operates in a generic no man’s land – not novel enough to pass for pure pop, not cold and perfunctory enough for faceless EDM, not experimental enough to qualify as interesting alternative fare – and, ultimately, not quite distinctive enough to excite on its own terms.
Chicago trio Meat Wave were already purveyors of bracing, pulse-racing feral noise, but for their third album, they’ve also channelled the intensity of The Rat by the Walkmen – all lasering barks, mercuried distortion and taut guitars that squeeze your emotive grapes. Engineered by Steve Albini, The Incessant is the name that frontman Chris Sutter gave to the all-encompassing anxiety he experienced after the breakup of the relationship he had been in since he was 12 (one song, Tomosaki, is also an ode to the cat he lost in the split). That frustration is palpable throughout: songs like Bad Man, Glass Teeth and Leopard Print Jet Ski are despairing ribcage rippers, inspired by as much by Drive Like Jehu as they are as queen of torturous feelings, Fiona Apple. There are slivers of upbeat melodic punk here and there (Run You Out, No Light), but the final annihilator, Killing the Incessant, serves to remind you that this is an album meant for breathless angst, fists in the air, spit in your hair.
So trippy it makes Ben Wheatley’s A Field in England look like an afternoon at the tax office, Dublin director Lorcan Finnegan’s debut sprig of sylvan-psych makes up for its occasional heavy tread with outstanding photography. Alan McKenna is a middle-aged surveyor with a curdling home life, sent out to chart ancient woodlands in preparation for development. But his surveyor’s pendulum is acting up, he witnesses strange figures in the morning mists, and, when his assistant-cum-lover (Niamh Algar) arrives, it’s clear his spiritual compass is erring, too.
A clear subscriber to the school of the atmospheric slow build over the jump-shock, it’s a shame Finnegan is too eager to will-o-the-wisp us down predictable paths – as he does with some unsubtle plotting, and diary entries from a mysterious antecedent flagging up the eco-agenda. But once it strays off into the realm of pure visuals, he and cinematographer Piers McGrail – using spectral lighting shifts, lens distortions and good old-fashioned creepy gnarled boughs – unleash something special. At last, Without Name taps a tart and heady sap.
This glowing, anthropologically flavoured drama – Australia’s nominee for the foreign-language film Oscar – features an unlikely cameo from Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip by way of an argument for arranged marriage. It’s one way in which Tanna, set among the tribes of the eponymous Pacific island in the Vanuatu archipelago, outlines its interest in how indigenous peoples experience broader human truths: in this case, how society always exacts its price from the individual.
Chieftain’s son Dain, the villager with the flyest fern headdress, falls for broad-smiling beauty Wawa, but their attraction threatens neighbouring tribal bonds. It could be something from Renaissance drama. In fact, it is: Romeo and Juliet (almost). With such lush locations, it must have been a temptation for directors Martin Butler and Bentley Dean to epically frame the lovers ad nauseam. But they restrict themselves to one silhouetted shot against the local volcanic eruption, and spend more time in proximity to fantastically vital performances from the Yakel-tribe cast. Less fixated than 2015’s Embrace of the Serpent on the threat to indigenous people from the outside, Tanna is an open-throated and universal call for change from within.
Here’s an alternative to the aggro punk poetry of Sleaford Mods: for their fifth album, Dutch Uncles have captured the cold, industrial grind of being broke and betrayed in austerity Britain. After 2015’s O Shudder – an odyssey into awkward sex – the Salford band have shed some of their lithe, shoulder-pad pop for something burlier and with greater intent: inspired by Kate Bush’s The Red Shoes, Low-era Bowie and eastern European techno, its songs barge in with urgency: Big Balloon is a song about antidepressants, its wobbling ascent firing out the type of energy that can’t be sustained, while Same Plane Dream, a song about benefit cuts, careens in a panic, instruments crammed in like a cluster headache. Beauty lies amid the twitchy paranoia – Streetlight is a moment of elegant Manchester romance, and throughout there are jangly, Marr-style guitars that slice into the darkness like light escaping through the slats of a blind.
“Seven hundred thousand rednecks – that’s what it takes to get to the top,” yells Nashville singer Nikki Lane, having calculated exactly where she wants to be. After working with producers including the Black Keys’ Dan Auerbach, her third album sees her take more control, along with boyfriend Jonathan Tyler, for a boisterous collection of firecracking “outlaw country.” Lane’s fiery, Loretta Lynn/Emmylou Harris-style vocals deliver tales of life on the road, smalltown gossips and female empowerment. She sassily sings of breaking hearts in every town, but Send the Sun alludes to the depressions caused by conducting a relationship via telephone. The beautiful, pedal steel-laden Forever Lasts Forever mourns a failed marriage. It makes for a convincingly personal but still universal portrait. Trading postmodern sheen for a more traditional sound could help attract the support from country radio stations that Lane needs, in a crowded field, to achieve a mainstream breakthrough. But even if not, “There ain’t no one gonna make me stop.”
Documentary maker Danae Elon grew up in Jerusalem, the only child of an American Jewish literary agent, Beth Elon, and an Austrian Jewish refugee from the Nazis, Amon Elon, who became a prominent left-wing intellectual, writer and public figure in Israel. This biographical context is crucial to Danae’s latest film PS Jerusalem, just as it was to her previous, Another Road Home, in which she tracked down the Palestinian man who looked after her when she was a child. Here, the director’s personal history becomes a prism through which to explore Israeli-Palestinian relations and family dynamics.
Despite her father’s dying wish that she stay away from Israel, Elon moves back to Jerusalem with her French-Algerian Jewish husband, Philip, and their two young sons (a third is born in the city), for reasons even she can’t quite explain. It would seem she’s motivated partly by a primal need to reconnect with her childhood home, and partly by a desire to be a moderating voice in a country increasingly dominated by right-wing settlers and religious zealots. However, the transition challenges the whole family, especially long-suffering Philip, who starts out game for the change but eventually becomes deeply disillusioned and disgusted with Israeli racism and bigotry. Some might feel repelled by Elon’s self-absorption, while others might marvel at her honesty and willingness to edit in material that shows her in an unflattering light. Either way, this is a conversation starter, not especially distinguished as film-making but vital and deeply felt.
It’s hard to make American rock with the epic sweep of Springsteen or Petty and keep it free of bombast. Ryan Adams doesn’t always manage it on Prisoner, his first album since he covered Taylor Swift’s entire 1989 album a couple of years ago, and his first set of original material since 2014. But he comes close. Between the clanging power chords and the big choruses, Adams, who also produced Prisoner, leaves ample space for intimacy. And he doesn’t bellow; he sings the tunes. Such restraint is appropriate on Prisoner’s vignettes of lost love. Shiver and Shake seethes with regret and muted passion, and a reverberating guitar coils around the plaintive Outbound Train. His heart-on-sleeve lyrics are often unambiguous: “Feels like I’m headed for a breakdown,” he sings on Breakdown; “I am a prisoner,” he declares on the title track, as a guitar chord pans prettily across the stereo. Adams is not breaking new ground with Prisoner, but it seems churlish to quibble when he’s at the peak of his powers.
Another elegantly made and thoroughly informative art-history documentary from Phil Grabsky, the latest in the Exhibition on Screen series. Although Grabsky is a past master in the mini-genre of gallery films, this one doesn’t seem linked to a particular show or collection, but rather juxtaposes excerpts from Monet’s letters with the paintings he was working on at the time. What emerges is a portrait of an artist who withstood his fair share of privation and discouragement – the passages around the birth of his children and death of his first wife are particularly tough – but who displayed an unswerving commitment to his work. It humanises a figure who has become somewhat devalued by the haze of modern-day blockbuster art shows. A graceful film that suggests there’s passion beneath the beautiful surface.
Frank Martin’s opera about Tristan and Iseult - the tragic couple of Celtic legend whose love for each other is awakened when they drink a potion – is, in many respects, the polar opposite of Wagner’s celebrated version of the same myth. Wagner’s work is famous for being one of the most influential and ground-breaking operas of all time. His five-hour, opulent extravaganza exalts erotic love to a transcendental, epic level, and extensively explores the metaphysics of love. Commanding the forces of super human singers and an enormous orchestra, it is a huge undertaking for any opera company.
Swiss composer Frank Martin was born in 1890 – 25 years after the première of Wagner’s Tristan. His treatment of the medieval legend is for eight instruments and 12 singers, written between 1938 and 1941. Though he admitted to being influenced by the German composer (and you can hear echoes of Wagner’s Tristan quoted at moments in Le Vin herbé), it was Bach, not Wagner, whom he described as his greatest artistic influence “yesterday, today, forever”.
Le Vin herbé does feel very close to the oratorios that Bach composed, and was described by the composer himself as a “secular oratorio”. Indeed, in traditional oratorio fashion, the story of the lovers is more narrated than dramatised, and Martin himself was resistant to the idea of theatricalising his composition, which he had intended to be performed as a concert.
And yet, the more one examines Le Vin herbé, the more it reveals itself as a work of instinctive theatricality. The very first thing the singers do is acknowledge the presence of their audience. “My Lords, will it please you to hear, a great story of love and death?” they ask, in the prologue. Contained within this narration, are psychologically vivid, “close-up” moments of the mythical protagonists’ experience.
Equal to the drama of this famous, fated romance, is the drama of a collective engaging with this myth: this is the story of people telling the story of Tristan and Iseult. Through their direct address, Martin’s chorus simultaneously both distances and draws in the audience. This layered, ritualistic approach to the presentation of this story assumes the meeting of three distinct plains of reality: the world of the mythical protagonists, the world of the storytellers, and the world of the audience. As the dramaturgy shifts between these three plains of reality; the unique theatrical leverage of Martin’s piece grows.
In our new production for Welsh National Opera we’ve expanded Martin’s original 12 singers to an ensemble of 40 and – in whole or in part – the chorus are our narrators. All the performers are on stage throughout; it is essentially their belief and imaginative investment in the story that gives the drama life. Also onstage, indeed centre stage, are the chamber ensemble and conductor, James Southall, which allows the musicians to also become part of the storytelling process and puts Martin’s most unique musical idiom at the centre of our dramatic world.
Martin’s narrators tell this story in 22 short, discrete tableaux. They set the scene for the audience and then give the protagonists the stage, for as long as is necessary to reveal the psychology behind the development of the plot. The longest tableau is Tristan’s breakdown, at the very centre of the piece. It’s a ten-minute monologue in which Tristan tears himself apart with guilt at having betrayed his uncle King Mark. He decides, that despite his love for Iseult, he must “return her to the King” as she is his lawful wife. But even this intensely psychological exploration is framed, and therefore controlled, by the narrators. In rehearsals with Tom Randle and Caitlin Hulcup – who play our Tristan and Iseult – we have discussed the power of stepping into these intense moments, and then also stepping away from them, rather than trying to sustain, for example, Tristan’s mythical sadness for the entirety of the show.
In response to Martin’s pared back, austere sound world, we have set the action in the empty shell of the theatre, where nothing is masked. The lighting bars, fire exits, props tables and stage management are all revealed making this, essentially, a site-specific show in an empty theatre. In rehearsals we have been exploring the effects of starting with an empty stage (like David Byrne in the Stop Making Sense Talking Heads movie) and building towards the world of the mythical progressively. Unlike Wagner’s maximalist, ultra Romantic and overtly theatrical operation, the trance-like, mesmeric effect of Martin’s music, is, like the love potion, a rare kind of intoxication, which leads us towards the mythical.
• Welsh National Opera’s new production of Le Vin herbé, directed by Polly Graham, opens at Wales Millennium Centre, Cardiff on 16 February before touring.


Whether it is from trauma, depression, addiction or just general malaise, share your songs about recovery in all its forms.
You have until 11pm on Monday 20 February to post your nomination and make your justification. RR reader Hywel Roberts (who posts in the comments as ScarletsOHywel) will select from your recommendations and produce the playlist, to be published on 23 February.
Here is a list of all songs previously picked and therefore ineligible for the series.
If you want to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions – and potentially blog about the process/selection for the Guardian – please email matthew.holmes@theguardian.com with the subject line “RR guru”, or make yourself known in the comments.
Here’s a reminder of the guidelines for RR:
Pink Floyd have raised the tantalising prospect of finally playing Glastonbury, or at least two-thirds of the surviving members have.
Roger Waters and Nick Mason made a rare appearance together on Thursday and said they would be up for playing Glastonbury, presumably music to the ears of the festival’s founder, Michael Eavis, who last year said his wishlist included Pink Floyd and Fleetwood Mac.
The problem will be David Gilmour: his former bandmates gave the impression of only being vaguely aware of his movements.
“The last I heard, David retired,” said Waters to Mason. “You know David better than me.”
Mason replied: “I heard he’d retired and then he seemed to unretire, so we don’t know.” He added that he had never played at Glastonbury and it would be fun “but I don’t think it is very likely but yes I would do it given the opportunity”.
Waters has played the festival and remembered it being “really cold. There were a lot of people and it seemed very jolly and I liked it”.
In truth, the prospect of a full reunion seems remote with Gilmour and Waters having had a particularly strained relationship over the years. They appeared as a foursome with the late Rick Wright for four songs at Live 8 in 2005 and Gilmour and Mason joined Waters at an O2 concert in 2011.
Waters said the subject of why don’t Pink Floyd get back together “is so dull … isn’t it?”
The two men were speaking at a press conference about a major show opening at the V&A in May, an exhibition along the lines of the museum’s hugely successful David Bowie show.
The exhibition will feature a laser light show and previously unseen concert footage as well as more than 350 objects and artefacts including instruments, handwritten lyrics, posters, architectural drawings and psychedelic prints.
Waters said he was particularly pleased to hear about a recent addition to the show: the cane used on him when he was a boy at Cambridge and County high school for boys.
“I’m inordinately proud, I don’t know why,” he said of his six strokes for fighting in 1959. “It is so archaic now, the idea of hitting people with sticks. It’s normally now confined to the foreign policy of major western powers.”
He said he remembered the cane being a flimsy thing used by a headteacher whose heart was not fully in it. Pink Floyd’s creative director Aubrey ‘Po’ Powell said the cane and the school’s punishment book were recently discovered by his colleague Paula Webb Stainton. “There are artefacts in this exhibition that have very, very deep emotional and contextual references to the work of Pink Floyd,” he said.
It was Waters’ school experiences that directly influenced The Wall album, with the anti-education song Another Brick in the Wall (We don’t need no education/ We don’t need no thought control/ No dark sarcasm in the classroom/ Teachers leave those kids alone). Also important was the artwork by Gerald Scarfe, which included a grotesque cane-wielding school teacher. Waters commemorated the fall of the Berlin wall in 1990 with a performance of The Wall.
On Thursday he was asked whether he would consider performing The Wall post-Trump, on the Mexico and US border. “I’ve always said I’d do it again if they ever figure out what to do about Israel and Palestine and get rid of that appalling security barrier,” he replied.
“If there was a resolution and we could realise there is no ‘us and them’ and that we’re all human beings and we all need to figure out how to live together because at the moment … as an act of celebration, if that moved towards a humane way of organising ourselves, I would be only too happy to perform that concert in some place that was significant geographically.
“If that happened to be the border between the United States and Mexico then yeah absolutely.”
• The Pink Floyd Exhibition: Their Mortal Remains is at the V&A 13 May – 1 October.
Nidhal Yahyaoui was born in the little town of Bargou, in a highland region of Tunisia near the border with Algeria that has its own distinctive songs in the Targ dialect, a blend of Berber and Arabic. Concerned that the local music was dying out, he spent more than a decade collecting songs from the region, and then, with help from producer and keyboard player Sofyann Ben Youssef, he assembled the Bargou 08 band to record in his parents’ home. Yahyaoui sings and plays the loutar lute, backed by local reed instruments, the gasba and zokra, along with a rhythm section of drums and percussion, with basslines played on a Moog synthesiser by Youssef. The result is a gutsy, entertaining album of North African folk-rock that ranges from the drifting Le Min Ijina to the stomping dance song Wazzaa, driven on by flute and a loping bass line.
One of Ireland’s most original young singer-songwriters returns with a set of often painfully honest, compelling songs. Lisa O’Neill is from Cavan, in the centre of the country, and her distinctive accent plays a key role in a vocal style that constantly changes direction, from soulful passages to songs treated with a croaking intensity, along with sudden reminders of her power and range. On the chillingly descriptive Nasty, she switches from a sneer to tenderness as she sings “he’s a nasty man, and he’s my man and he’s nice to me”. Elsewhere she mixes pained and personal songs with Gormlaith’s Grieving, an unexpectedly intimate ancient Irish history lesson, or Black Sheep, a surreal and poetic children’s song. O’Neill’s voice dominates the album, but she is helped by often sparse backing from her own guitar, banjo and piano, matched against sudden, atmospheric use of violin and percussion.
Violinist James Ehnes and pianist Andrew Armstrong play together with an easy spark and suppleness that only old friends really can. In the past they’ve done excellent things with Franck, Strauss, Debussy and Elgar; now they turn to Beethoven with the same combination of light touch and searing focus. There’s a clarity of ideas that means they never have to overstate – take the initial phrase of the Kreutzer Sonata, the impeccably eloquent way the opening chord clouds from radiance to shade so decisively. Flashes of white heat in that sonata subside into a graceful reading of the Sixth. For some listeners, the featherweight diction won’t be brawny or volatile enough for mid-period Beethoven, but it would be wrong to mistake cleanliness for lack of emotional heft. The uncluttered, conversational generosity of this duo speaks volumes.
When Brian Eno met Basil Kirchin for the first time, in a London recording studio in 1974, he realised that he was encountering a true outsider artist: someone doggedly oblivious to the wider world as he pursued his unique musical vision. “Basil just wasn’t part of any scene that I knew,” he says. “The British avant-garde music scene in those days was a tiny group of about 31 people. Everything you went to, they were there. Basil didn’t belong to any of those groups.”
Kirchin, born in Blackpool in 1927, had begun his career conventionally enough as a 13-year-old drum prodigy with the successful dance band led by his father in the wartime West End before spending much of the 1960s writing music for British films from the Dave Clark Five’s Catch Us If You Can to The Abominable Dr Phibes.
In 1967 the Arts Council granted him the money to buy a Nagra tape recorder, of the type used by musicologists making field recordings, and Kirchin’s work took a new direction. It enabled him to pursue his vision of a sound world in which everything around him – birdsong, abstract jazz, children’s voices – could be made into a new kind of music.
By the time he met Eno he had taken a leap into the future, devising a complex and painstaking method of manipulating taped sounds – both musical and natural – that went beyond the work of the pioneers of musique concrète.
“Basil realised long before the rest of us did that sound could become a malleable material,” says Eno. “He was like a painter. That idea of music as painting was something that became very important to me. When I started working in recording studios, I realised that the picture people had of how music was made – of someone with an idea in their heads standing in front of a microphone doing something, was less and less what was actually happening. You’d go in and put a background down one day, then try something else the next day. You’re not linked to a moment in time as you are with performance, because you keep returning to it and you can change things. When we [Eno and David Byrne] made My Life in the Bush of Ghosts, with the idea of using found voices as the centre of the piece rather than having them as an ornament, I’m sure the boldness and confidence I had for that partly came from Basil.”
Kirchin’s 1971 album Worlds Within Worlds embedded the free improvisations of saxophonist Evan Parker and guitarist Derek Bailey in the mosaic of altered sounds. I first met Kirchin when he visited Island Records to offer me, their then head of A&R, a second set of tapes: this time he was doing without musicians altogether, but making affecting use of the voices of autistic children with whom Kirchin’s wife, Esther, was working in Switzerland, where they were living.
Neither of the Worlds albums sold more than a handful of copies and they would be his last official releases for 30 years, until Jonny Trunk, a writer and DJ who runs a label devoted to rescuing British film and library music from the vaults, released the first of a series of CDs devoted to his often wildly original output.
Kirchin’s extraordinary musical journey will be explored this coming weekend during a series of concerts and talks in Hull, the city where he went to live in 1979. Hull was where his parents had made their home, and it was where he spent his last two and a half decades working at his music in complete obscurity, collaborating with local musicians and sound engineers, living mostly on benefits, until his death in 2005, at the age of 77. Titled Mind on the Run: The Basil Kirchin Story, the weekend is a component of Hull’s year-long UK City of Culture programme.
Among the participants, who include members of the High Lamas, Wilco and St Etienne, is Will Gregory of Goldfrapp, whose composition for an ensemble including members of the BBC Concert Orchestra pays homage to Kirchin’s use of birdsong. “I hadn’t heard of Basil until I was approached about this project,” Gregory says. “I listened to his music and became interested in its colours, layers and shadings. It’s quite a mysterious voice. He seems to have been a very primal, earthy person who was coming at music from a spiritual end of things.”
Kirchin had begun exploring his spiritual side during a visit to India in 1958. His studies of philosophy and music put him, as usual, 10 years ahead of the curve.
Evan Parker first worked with him in 1968 on a film called Negatives, a piece of Edwardian erotica starring Glenda Jackson. Parker and several fellow members of the Spontaneous Music Ensemble were called to the studios to do their free-jazz thing when Kirchin needed music to accompany depictions of psychotic states: “He called us the Paranoia Boys.”
Those who encountered Kirchin recall his intensity and his lack of interest in the outside world’s opinion. Parker remembers a “mildly obsessive” character, determined to pursue his own personal development. “He wasn’t humourless. Not at all. But perhaps the things that amused him weren’t everybody’s idea of funny.”
Mind on the Run: the Basil Kirchin Story is at Hull City Hall, 17-19 February.
Cédric Tiberghien’s Bartók series has been an ear-opener – expressive and sharp-witted performances that clinch the music’s essence in original terms. The French pianist has saved some of Bartók’s most straight-up tuneful material for last, and this instalment includes the Three Hungarian Folksongs from the Csík District (melodies Bartók learned in summer 1907 from a Transylvanian flute player), the Three Rondos on Slovak Folk Tunes and the slight, blithe Sonatina. Tiberghien balances these with the knotty Études and the thick-set Sonata – and through it all, the angular and the earthy, he has a way of making Bartók’s rhythms sound simultaneously stretchy, precise and personal. He’s joined by fellow pianist François-Frédéric Guy and percussionists Colin Currie and Sam Walton for the Sonata for Two Pianos and Percussion from 1926 – jostling, gracious, deft playing to round off the disc.
Trumpeter/composer Henry Spencer is a recent conservatoire graduate, but his spectacular technique and strong musical character make him sound like an old hand. His Juncture quintet’s striking debut features some unusual ingredients. One such is the pairing of his trumpet with Nick Costley-White’s electric guitar as the dominant texture, a rhythmic approach that often lets his blistering, long-tone brass power soar over Mehldau-like piano ostinatos and busy drum grooves. There is also an unjazzily songlike directness in the themes. Spencer’s remarkable trumpet prowess is plain from the album’s solo intro of wriggling runs, squeezed-valve slurs, dolorous swerves and gleaming sustained tones. The set progresses through hard-rocking drama (the excellent David Ingamells is on drums); brooding, Spanish-tinged themes with emerging snare-tattoos beautifully sketched slow trumpet meditations shadowed by subtle guitar chordwork; dreamy classic-ballad reflectiveness and brightly serpentine melodies cushioned by the strings of the Guastalla Quartet. Some of the grand, fanfare-like gestures go on a bit, but Spencer’s is a very promising arrival.
It was not a question of race, insisted Grammys boss Neil Portnow, in the wake of the furore surrounding Adele’s victory over Beyoncé for the album of the year award – the top prize – at this year’s awards in Los Angeles on Sunday. “I don’t think there’s a race problem at all,” Portnow told Pitchork. “We don’t, as musicians, listen to music based on gender or race or ethnicity.”
Portnow’s problem is that a lot of people aren’t convinced by his argument that the 14,000 voting members of the Recording Academy “almost put a blindfold on” when they listen to the nominated albums. Adele did not seem convinced in her acceptance speech on Sunday night when she said: “I can’t possibly accept this award,” before addressing Beyoncé directly. “You are our light. And the way that you make me and my friends feel, the way you make my black friends feel, is empowering.”
Sufjan Stevens didn’t seem convinced when he wrote that that the “urban contemporary album” category in which Lemonade won is “where the white man puts the incomparable pregnant black woman because he is so threatened by her talent, power, persuasion and potential”. St Vincent did not seem convinced by the snub when she agreed with him. Solange – Beyoncé’s sister and a Grammy-winner in her own right – did not seem convinced when she hastily tweeted then deleted: “Create your own committees, build your own institutions, give your friends awards, award yourself, and be the gold you wanna hold, my Gs.” Frank Ocean did not seem convinced when he addressed the Grammy producers on Tumblr: “You know what’s really not ‘great TV’ guys? 1989 getting album of the year over To Pimp a Butterfly … If you’re up for a discussion about the cultural bias and general nerve damage the show you produce suffers from then I’m all for it.”
One year, one overlooked album – that might not be a problem. The issue for the Grammys is that in an era when R&B and hip-hop have been going through a period of massive creativity – matched by huge commercial success – the album of the year prize at the Grammys has been going to white artists. The last black winnner was Herbie Hancock, for River: The Joni Letters in 2008. Since then, Taylor Swift has won twice (for Fearless in 2010 and 1989 in 2016), as has Adele (for 21 in 2012 and 25 this year). Meanwhile, black artists have been shortlisted, but lost out: Beyoncé alone has been in the final five three times since 2010 without winning. Kendrick Lamar has had two shortlisted albums without winning. Frank Ocean, the Weeknd, Pharrell Williams have all been shortlisted without winning. Kanye West has not even been shortlisted since Graduation in 2008, and Drake has been shortlisted just once, for Views, this year.
It is not as if these are marginal acts being passed over for something more mainstream; that list of names contains many of the main drivers of popular culture. They are hit artists, the most-talked about artists of the moment. Are they really not as good as Mumford & Sons (2013 winners), Arcade Fire (2011 winners), Beck (2015 winner) or Robert Plant & Alison Krauss (2009 winners)?
But there is nothing new here. The Grammys have always had a problem with the album of the year award. Looking down a list of winners often has you wondering what on earth the voters were thinking, even when the winner was black (was Natalie Cole’s Unforgettable … With Love really the best album of 1992?). There was a period in the mid-70s when album of the year was, more or less, the Stevie Wonder award, as he won it three years out of four between 1974 and 1977, but equally there have been years when the winning album (and the entire shortlist) have ignored not just black music, but a whole load of other great music, too. So, in recognition of the fact that the Grammys have long been both #grammyssowhite and #grammyssocrap, here are some of the least memorable years for the album of the year winner in Grammy history.
Winner: Blood, Sweat & Tears by Blood, Sweat & Tears
The album of the year prize ignored rock, soul and R&B until 1968, when Sgt Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band won. It was back to the soft pop of Glen Campbell the following year, and then in 1970 Blood, Sweat & Tears won. It is not that their second album is bad; it was a huge critical and commercial success, and their fusion of classical, rock and jazz styles was groundbreaking. It is more that when you look back at what else was happening, you would be hard picked to call this an album that defined the previous year.
Black artists who were overlooked …
• The Temptations: Cloud Nine
The soul harmony quintet were at their psychedelic soul peak with Cloud Nine, whose opening side – Cloud Nine, into I Heard It Through the Grapevine into Runaway Child, Running Wild – is one of the great achievements of Motown.
• Sly and the Family Stone: Stand!
A huge hit album that contained three of the Family Stone’s greatest pop hits – the title track, I Want to Take You Higher and Everyday People – as well as the discombobulating Don’t Call Me Nigger, Whitey, was passsed over for the shortlist for album of the year.
• Isaac Hayes – Hot Buttered Soul
A US No 8 hit, Hot Buttered Soul set a template for soul as the 70s dawned: lubricious, ambitious and luxurious. Hayes stretched out on epic versions of Walk on By and By the Time I Get to Phoenix, and created the soul loverman. A landmark in soul. Hayes did get an album of the year nomination in 1972 for Shaft.
The Grammys also missed …
Led Zeppelin: Led Zeppelin I and Led Zeppelin II, Rolling Stones: Let it Bleed and The Band: The Band
Winner: The Concert for Bangladesh by George Harrison and Friends
Pop’s capacity for backslapping on the rare occasions it manages to do A Good Thing manifested itself in this live recording of Harrison’s charity show winning the album of the year prize. This is rarely an album dug out when one fancies hearing a former Beatle.
Black artists who were overlooked …
• The O’Jays: Back Stabbers
Two brilliant, massive singles – the title track and Love Train – and a top 10 album were not enough to draw the attention of the Recording Academy, even if Back Stabbers was the pinnacle of the Philly soul sound.
• Aretha Franklin: Young, Gifted and Black
Aretha Franklin has won the Grammy for best female R&B vocal performance 11 times, but has never even been nominated for album of the year. That’s despite the fact that in the late 60s and early 70s, on Atlantic, she produced arguably the greatest run of soul albums ever: this is one without a single track you would skip.
• Curtis Mayfield: Super Fly
A film soundtrack that overshadowed its parent film, Super Fly was a huge creative breakthrough for Mayfield, and a critical and commercial smash: a soul concept album that stood up in its own right, with impassioned commentary on the state of black America.
The Grammys also missed …
Neil Young: Harvest, Todd Rundgren: Something/Anything? and David Bowie: The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders From Mars
Winner: 52nd Street by Billy Joel
There’s nothing wrong with 52nd Street – it’s got My Life on it, and who doesn’t like My Life? – but when you look at what was missed out that year, you realise that this was the Grammys at their very safest.
Black artists who were overlooked …
• Chic: Risqué
The year being rewarded, 1979, had been the Chic Organisation’s annus mirabilis. The third Chic album opened with Good Times, the song that to this day defines the sound of disco, but that was only the start of Bernard Edwards and Nile Rodgers’s achievements that year …
• Sister Sledge: We Are Family
Chic also took the reins of the soul trio, producing what Rodgers believes to be “our best album, hands down”. And who is to argue, given it contained He’s the Greatest Dancer and Lost in Music, as well as the title track?
• Michael Jackson: Off the Wall
As if missing the previous two was not bad enough, the Grammys also ignored what was, arguably, Michael Jackson’s greatest album (Thriller would win in 1984). The only disco record to get an album of the year nomination in this, the genre’s golden year, was Donna Summer’s Bad Girls. Though there was room on the shortlist for both Minute by Minute by the Doobie Brothers and The Gambler by Kenny Rogers. Just not Off the Wall. Or Risqué. Or We Are Family. For shame.
The Grammys also missed …
The Clash: London Calling, Neil Young: Rust Never Sleeps. Abba: Voulez Vous
Winner: Christopher Cross by Christopher Cross
As the aftershocks of punk echoed through music, as hard rock enjoyed a massive resurgence, as disco started to give way to hip-hop, the Recording Academy decided that the best album of 1980 had been a soft rock record of unimpeachable craftsmanship (if you count John Lennon and Yoko Ono’s Double Fantasy as soft rock, we are in the midst of a four-year run of soft rock winners).
Black artists who were overlooked …
• Diana Ross: Diana
The Chic Organisation were back, this time steering Diana Ross to make what was probably her best solo album, led by a pair of hits – Upside Down and I’m Coming Out – that were as good as anything she ever recorded.
• Teddy Pendergrass: TP
The leading male R&B singer of his era had been passed over the previous year for Teddy, and the pattern was repeated with TP. Never mind that it was a platinum album, that Pendergrass was at the peak of his powers, and that Love TKO was one of the great Philly singles.
• The Jacksons: Triumph
Well, if you’re going to disregard Off the Wall, you may as well disregard what was to all intents and purposes its successor, too. Michael Jackson, at the top of his game, did most of the lead singing and writing on Triumph, another platinum album. Incredibly, the brilliant opener Can You Feel It peaked at No 77 in the US.
The Grammys also missed
Pink Floyd: The Wall, AC/DC: Back in Black, David Bowie: Scary Monsters (and Super Creeps)
Winner: No Jacket Required by Phil Collins
After a two-year break for Thriller and Lionel Richie’s Can’t Slow Down, the soft rock supremacy returned with No Jacket Required. It’s not a bad album – none of these winners is – but there were some issues with what was missed.
Black artists who were overlooked …
• Prince: Around the World in a Day
Prince’s 1999 had been nominated for album of the year in 1985, but lost out to Can’t Slow Down. Prince was also nominated for Sign o’ the Times in 1988 but incredibly never won album of the year.
• Whitney Houston: Whitney Houston
Never mind that voice, or those three US No 1 singles: the multi-platinum debut album by a singer who redefined female pop-soul and R&B singing, and who became the biggest star of her generation, crossing race boundaries and appealing to young and old, black and white, was no match for No Jacket Required. Though nominated in three categories at the 1986 Grammys, Houston won only one, for best pop vocal performance (for Saving All My Love for You).
• Luther Vandross: The Night I Feel In Love
The mid-to-late 80s were the heyday of the smooth, sophisticated male soul star; as well as Vandross, Alexander O’Neal was an international star, and Freddie Jackson’s debut album was a monster US hit in 1985. At this point, it may not come as a surprise that none of the smooth, sophisticated male soul stars were ever nominated for album of the year.
The Grammys also missed …
Kate Bush: Hounds of Love, Tom Waits: Rain Dogs and Talking Heads: Little Creatures
Winner: MTV Unplugged by Eric Clapton
There is a case for saying that no awards ceremony that preaches diversity should ever reward Eric Clapton, who – despite being given multiple opportunities to do so – has never seen fit to apologise for or backtrack from his notorious onstage pronouncement in 1976 that “Enoch was right”. Yet he was rewarded for an album of acoustic rerecordings of old tracks in one of hip-hop’s great years.
Black artists who were overlooked …
• Michael Jackson: Dangerous
It dealt with the kind of platitudinous big themes that often get rewarded (Black or White, Heal the World), it took Jackson into new jack swing, it sold a bazillion copies, but Dangerous did not even get a nomination. Bad had been nominated, in 1988, but Thriller was to be the only album of the year award Jackson ever won.
• Arrested Development: 3 Years, 5 Months and 2 Days in the Life Of …
A landmark in conscious hip-hop that managed to be infectiously enjoyable, intriguingly weird and joyously danceable – as well as being one of the first statements that southern hip-hop was about to eclipse its coastal counterparts.
• Mary J Blige: What’s the 411?
Blige’s first album was the big hit that the Grammys require before granting one of the big awards. It was also, like the album above, a portent of something new, in this case the melding of hip-hop and soul into something that managed to be simultaneously tougher than leather, but washed down with tears.
The Grammys also missed …
Beastie Boys: Check Your Head, Tori Amos: Little Earthquakes and U2: Achtung Baby
Winner: MTV Unplugged by Tony Bennett
One sure way of getting Grammy success was to be a great recontextualising your music: hence Clapton, and in 2000 Santana’s Supernatural album, pairing him with younger artists. Tony Bennett revisiting his back catalogue fell slap-bang in the middle of that period. It is hard to begrudge an evidently decent man, and a great singer, but once again, look at what was passed over.
Black artists who were overlooked …
Nas: Illmatic
One of the great hip-hop albums, one of the great debut albums, and a hit to boot – it peaked in the US chart at No 12. This was a landmark hip-hop album, yet it would be another nine years before OutKast’s Speakerboxxx/The Love Below became the first hip-hop record to win the album of the year award.
Warren G: Regulate … G Funk Era
Warren G actually got two nominations in the 1995 Grammys – for best rap solo performance and best rap performance by a duo or a group – but the album of the year category that year rewarded safety: alongside Bennett, the nominees were the Three Tenors, Eric Clapton, Bonnie Raitt and Seal.
The Notorious BIG: Ready to Die
One of the greatest rappers ever, and someone who helped revitalise east coast hip-hop, Biggie Smalls never got an album of the year nomination. In what was already a depressingly familiar pattern, he was instead confined to genre categories, with Big Poppa getting a best rap solo performance nomination the following year.
The Grammys also missed …
Soundgarden – Superunknown, Nine Inch Nails: The Downward Spiral, Jeff Buckley: Grace
• This article was amended on 19 February 2017 to correct a misspelling of Teddy Pendergrass’s name.
Kanye West made a landmark appearance at the 2015 Brits. It wasn’t the 30-foot flame throwers or Taylor Swift’s hyperventilating expression in the audience that made his performance of All Day the most startling moment of the show, however. It was the presence of MCs such as Skepta, Novelist, Stormzy, Jammer and Krept & Konan who lined the stage behind him – grime’s new generation, who until now had been neglected by the awards, neither nominated nor invited to perform at the ceremony, in spite of UK rap and grime scene’s burgeoning popularity. It prompted 126 complaints and an avalanche of racist statements on social media from viewers appalled at the presence of so many black men on primetime television; an alarming response that exposed just how alien it was for a major award show to recognise musicians of colour.
The landscape remained unchanged a year later. Last year’s Brits committee failed to nominate a single black artist in any major category, sparking outrage among artists such as Laura Mvula, who threatened a boycott; Stormzy, who called the awards “embarrassing” on his One Take Freestyle; and the hashtag #BritsSoWhite, which quickly went viral.
Finally, in a bid to reinvigorate the award system, the organisers of 2017’s show announced a new voting method that would be more inclusive of black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) communities as well as ensure a more balanced gender ratio. This year’s committee is made up of approximately 17% BAME voters, and 48% women.
So far the nominees already represent a more accurate picture of a thriving British music scene: Skepta receives three nominations for male artist, breakthrough act and album of the year (his first ever Brit nomination, four albums into his career). Kano is up for male artist and album of the year, as is Michael Kiwanuka. Zayn gets a nod for best single for Pillow Talk, Tinie Tempah for his Zara Larsson collaboration Girls Like, and Lianne La Havas, Nao and Emeli Sandé are all up for best female.
A cursory glance at Brit award winners throughout the decades reveals that this decision to diversify is a few decades too late, especially when you consider the popularity of retro R&B, soul and blues music over the last decade, accolades that have traditionally been handed to white artists such as Sam Smith, James Bay, Adele and Duffy. Outside of the urban and international awards, there have been few BAME winners in its major award categories: Sandé, Dizzee Rascal, Tinie Tempah, JLS, Ms Dynamite, Sonique, Des’ree, Finley Quaye, Shola Ama, Dina Carroll, M People, Seal, Sade and Shirley Bassey remain some of the only winners in the Brits’ four-decade legacy.
2017’s changes are incremental, and hopefully more than a short-term gesture, but they are a sign that a spirit of revolution is in the air. In a few days’ time, Skepta returns to the Brits stage as a verified performer, only this time without the world’s most famous rapper, a pair of industrial flame throwers or, hopefully, any complaints.
William Byrd was a Catholic in the service of an Anglican monarch; Benjamin Britten was a gay pacifist in second world war England. It never hurts to remember how many of the artists we end up deifying faced some kind of bigotry in their day. This album presents the two composers as a pair of outsiders, alternating works by each in a programme that illuminates but doesn’t force the parallels. Conductor Mark Williams opens with a Byrd anthem (O Lord, Make thy Servant, Elizabeth Our Queen) and closes with Britten’s youthful Te Deum. In between we get a considered performance of Britten’s Missa Brevis and Byrd’s sublimely introspective Quomodo Cantibimus. Though 350 years separated their careers, Byrd’s scraping harmonies often sound no older than Britten’s. The singing of Jesus Cambridge isn’t always sharply defined but it is warm and breathy, topped by excellent boy choristers and best in stately slow music such as Byrd’s Ave Verum Corpus.
Barcelona trumpeter/singer Andrea Motis has sounded and looked like a mainstream jazz star since her teens. She is now 21, and her major-label debut features a Spanish band led by her teacher and bassist/saxist Joan Chamorro, plus American guests including saxophonist Joel Frahm and accordionist Gil Goldstein. A raft of standard songs include You’d Be So Nice to Come Home To, He’s Funny That Way and a spirited Never Will I Marry, which Motis handles with an impulsive abandon on both vocals and trumpet, in contrast to the pristine cool of much of the set. She catches a punchily hard-boppish 60s Blue Note trumpet feel on Horace Silver’s Señor Blues and her own instrumental Save The Orangutan, and a mature vocal expressiveness on Brazilian mood-pieces. She does occasionally sound like an artist still blinking in an unexpected spotlight, and her material and methods are very traditional. But this is an engaging session, and full of pithy soloing from the participants.
Since its birth in 1995, the Scottish National Jazz Orchestra has steadily matured into a big band fit to grace any stage in the world, regularly featuring international jazz stars as guests. Former Miles Davis saxophonist Bill Evans takes the lead role in this powerful jazz concerto composed by orchestra founder Tommy Smith – following the story of Beauty and the Beast, but with a darker, Jekyll-and-Hyde spin. Drummer Alyn Cosker’s thumping backbeat launches an inventive opening collision between Evans’ capriciously Wayne Shorteresque soprano sax reflections and variously smoochy, scampering and slamming rejoinders in Smith’s score. Film-noirish smokiness turns to free-jazz burnups; snappily riffing episodes trigger Evans’s fierce, staccato tenor-sax marathons; an almost Stan Getzian sax romanticism unfolds against superb writing for low brass and shivery, trilling reeds. Evans is occasionally inclined to bombast (it would have been interesting to hear a version by David Liebman, for whom the suite was originally written), but Tommy Smith’s Mingus-meets-Stan Kenton scoring is wonderful.
The latest addition to Mark Elder’s British music series continues his exploration of Elgar with a couple of the works composed during the first world war. A Voice in the Wilderness is one of a triptych of small-scale pieces with narrator that Elgar composed between 1914 and 1917 (all of them recently recorded by Martyn Brabbins and the BBC Scottish Symphony, while the settings of Laurence Binyon in The Spirit of England was his last major choral work. Perhaps the first number revisits the music of The Dream of Gerontius rather too blatantly; but in the latter piece, the impressionist world of its second movement, To Women, is unlike anything else Elgar wrote, except, perhaps, parts of what survive of his third symphony.
Three pieces of incidental music composed in 1901 for George Moore and WB Yeats’s play Grania and Diarmid make a neat connection with the rarity by Arnold Bax that Elder also includes. In Memoriam carries the subtitle An Irish Elegy; it was written in response to the 1916 Easter Rising and the execution of its leaders by the British government. Originally scored for sextet, Bax’s orchestration was lost for many years, but it makes a brooding tone poem which deserves to be much better known. Both versions have been recorded before (on Chandos), but Elder’s performance has a special, spacious inevitability about it.
The early 1990s were glory days for the pubescent male. And, by extension, grand times for the stars of Baywatch: Pamela Anderson, with her awestruck army of admirers; David Hasselhoff, his career bounding off into a sunset of irony, lasting far longer than anyone could have imagined.
But no one expected, 25 years later, to be betting on Baywatch for a second time. When news of the film remake broke, predicting its tack seemed easy: red swimwear stretched over wanly-cast reprisals of characters that were pretty wan to start with; some skimpy something’s-rotten-in-the-state-of-California plotline; possibly Hoff and Pamela cameos, too. The new version has all these things, but the trailer was still an upbeat surprise. With The Rock and Zac Efron’s bromance game looking strong, this one – unlike the majority of remakes – had a visible pulse. And, all-importantly, a sense of self-awareness. “Everything you guys were talking about sounds like a really entertaining, but far-fetched TV show,” ironises Efron.
Coming clean on the dirty business is how Hollywood has remade its most discredited genre: the remake. “We’re staring into the abyss here,” one pencil-pusher in the teaser points out. “It’s up to us to restore the Baywatch brand.” Such faintly meta directives, pre-empting the audience’s misgivings, are following the model laid by another self-referential workover of a derelict property: 2012’s 21 Jump Street. There, the police chief swiftly laid the cards on the table: “We’re reviving a cancelled undercover police programme from the 80s and revamping it for modern times. You see, the guys in charge of this stuff lack creativity and are completely out of ideas, so all they do now is recycle shit from the past and expect us all not to notice.”
Well, yes. After The Avengers (not the Marvel one), The A-Team, Shaft, Clash of the Titans, Fame, Arthur, The Karate Kid, Get Carter, The Wicker Man, Total Recall, Alfie, The Italian Job and a gazillion other sorry revenants, who couldn’t fail to notice? This nineties and noughties deluge – when the need for “pre-awareness” pushed the remake factory into overdrive – was what 21 Jump Street was reacting to. “I thought that would be kind of a fun and risky thing to do because people so immediately assume that a remake, reboot, retelling, rehashing is gonna be awful,” writer Michael Bacall told GQ at the time. “And I get the same shivers too when I hear things like that announced.”
Both 21 Jump Street and its equally candid 2014 sequel made big money for comedies: $201m and $331m worldwide respectively. It’s clear, not just from Baywatch, that they have become the remake model to emulate. Apart from the slightly tragic air of gay panic, that’s the notable thing about the trailer for the new version of 70s/80s TV series CHiPs. The larky tone – with Michael Peña and Dax Shepherd’s motorcycle patrol cops dicking around as much as Channing Tatum and Jonah Hill – is a straight Jump Street crib.
Crucially, it looks like Peña is an FBI agent who assumes the identity of Frank “Ponch” Poncherello, Erik Estrada’s character from the TV series, for a case. This sense of play-acting, putting everything at a remove, is at the core of the new-school remake. It’s a way of acknowledging the audience’s own feelings about returning to and reinhabiting old favourites; the desire for them to be the same, but the likelihood that you have changed. 21 Jump Street wasn’t just funny; it was sharp on this cultural nostalgia, too. Tatum and Hill – unconvincing cops play-acting students – find winding the clock back to high school bewildering. The jock/nerd divide has splintered into a dozen different tribes, and neither are sure where they belong any more.
Bothering to detail millennial attitudes, rather than just indulging the Gen X viewpoint, showed that 21 Jump Street had an uncommon grasp of its demographics. It knew exactly where both parties stood in relation to the idea of the remake. An obligatory Johnny Depp cameo for any remaining fans of the original, but younger audiences were probably too tickled by watching Captain Jack Sparrow getting shot through the neck to wonder what he was doing there. Openly servicing the audience perspective began some time ago, as critic Tom Shone notes of Independence Day in his book Blockbuster: “‘This is so cool,’ murmurs one Los Angelino [in the film]. There would be someone like her in every disaster movie of the 90s – less a character, in fact, than a cheerleader for the film’s sense of fun, an ambassador for the audience’s sense of excitement.” But we have become unignorable in the social-media age; fully incorporated into the story in 21 Jump Street, this dramatisation of our cultural preferences, done with meme precision, has given the remake a new alibi.
There’s something celebratory about this tip of the hat to our collective pop-culture fixes. 21 Jump Street directors Phil Lord and Chris Miller have made that participatory ethic their calling card. Their near-masterpiece The Lego Movie paid tribute to the imaginative spadework done by little old us in any fictional endeavour; The Lego Batman Movie, if not quite as subtle, still has plenty of winks to our relationship with the franchise. “Sir, I have seen you go through similar phases in 2016 and 2012 and 2008 and 2005 and 1997 and 1995 and 1992 and 1989 and that weird one in 1966,” Alfred the butler tells the man in black.
Such in-jokey tactics are close to spoof, the lowest form of Hollywood recycling. There is definitely something spoofy about 21 Jump Street, in its derisory attachment to the original property and gags – like the climactic explosions that never come – about the action-movie form. But spoof believes in nothing, and the model of remake set down by the Jump Street films is too invested in its ideas about film-viewing and the audience to be entirely throwaway. It comes closer to the kind of postmodernism first imported into the mainstream by Last Action Hero and Scream. The latter deviously used horror connoisseurship to set up a regressive hall-of-mirrors effect inside the film: us watching the characters watching classic horror films. But the post-Jump Street remake makes a beeline outwards straight for us.
It’s even possible, for an instant, to believe that’s because it’s conspiring with us to change Hollywood. Joshing about the studios’ creative drought allows to us feel superior; to entertain the idea that the rules can be broken. Alongside the lampooning of redundant sequels in the Jump Street sequel is a running skit about Tatum’s reluctance to improvise. But much of the second instalment, Lord and Miller claim, came out of improvisation, and the film “emerged” in editing,as if even the on-brand Jump Street jokes about the roteness of sequels were too rote for them (they turned down directing initially). Quite radical, as it goes, for a modern studio film, but both films still couch their subversion within the confines of the traditional action-comedy. By the time 22 Jump Street is spitballing its own sequels over the end credits, it’s clear any radicalism is running down a blind alley.
The chances of the CHiPs or Baywatch remakes amplifying this subversion are as likely as the latter having the Rock decapitate Hasselhoff mid-movie, or featuring an unattractive principal actor. But the new self-referential remake still poses Hollywood an important question about its creative commitment. Yes, it’s always been a remake kind of town, as the three versions of Ben-Hur, spanning nearly a century, demonstrate. Or the five Count of Monte Cristos, or the seven Three Musketeers. But most of these regurgitations arrived at wider intervals, during times less media-saturated than ours. It’s hard to escape the feeling that every recognisable brand has been plundered; the bottom of the remake barrel definitively scraped. Even the big franchises like Marvel are, if not remaking exactly, then cloning a formula from one film to the next. Or like Star Wars, Terminator and Jurassic Park, cannibalising their own heritage in quasi-remakes like the most recent instalments.
In other words, remaking the remake, making it self-conscious, is surely the last throw of the dice. What will there be left for the next generation of Hollywood directors to build on? All respect to Schmidt and Jenko, as well as the new Mitch Buchannon, CJ Parker, Jon Baker and Ponch (remember them?), it’s doubtful there’s enough emotional substance there for a third go-around. Over the last decade, Hollywood has faced the biggest question marks over its future since the first time TV overshadowed it in the 50s. Getting back on top might mean ditching remake’s first syllable and remembering the important part.
• CHiPs is released on 24 March; Baywatch on 2 June
Tiësto is the most-travelled musician in the world, according to a new report that calculates the career miles of leading artists, based on their tour schedules.
The Dutch DJ – who has previously topped Forbes’ list of the richest people in dance music – has travelled an exhausting 1,557,131 miles in the course of his career, equivalent to 62.53 times around the world (or 6.52 times to the moon).
Tiësto is followed in the league table by another DJ, Paul van Dyk, who has travelled 1,442,993 miles during his career and 115,968 miles in the past 12 months alone.
Though in stark contrast musically, Nobel-nabbing songwriter Bob Dylan came in third place, with 1,389,374 career miles, followed by rockers Metallica (1,307,842 miles) and Aerosmith (1,099,901).
Beyoncé was ranked 19th, travelling 472,443 miles in her 15-year career, while the Beatles travelled a humble 95,970 miles between 1960-1970 (though they stopped touring in 1966).
The report by travel deals site TravelBird shows that the number of years over which an artist has performed does not always mean they have travelled further; the two leading artists have both been active since the 1990s, beating many acts that have been performing since the 60s.
Muse and Snoop Dogg were two other artists who have been active since the 90s and are in the top 10, while the Rolling Stones, U2 and Cyndi Lauper were also among the top-ranked acts. Rumours that Australian pop duo Savage Garden made it to the moon and back have yet to be confirmed.
The full report looked at 36 artists chosen from a poll of 100 influential musicians. Distances were estimated based on tour schedules, with one-off and private events excluded.
Late-night hosts took aim at Trump’s failing administration, saying it was “fully engulfed in chaos”.
On The Daily Show, Trevor Noah covered the reality TV star turned president’s meeting with Benjamin Netanyahu, stating that “Watching Trump’s diplomacy is a surreal experience.”
Tonight at 11/10c, Donald Trump’s surreal press conference with Israeli PM Netanyahu. pic.twitter.com/wP9itMDlLH
He also joked about how Trump handled the topic of illegal settlements, simply by telling him they should be stopped. “I’m sorry but Donald Trump is a genius,” he said. “No one has ever thought to just straight up ask Netanyahu to stop the settlements. He asked him like a neighbor telling someone to turn down the music.”
On the response, he said: “You can see Netanyahu’s like ‘who the fuck is this dude?’”
Noah ended with a theory that maybe Trump’s plan is actually going to work after all. “Trump is either a genius or he is the biggest idiot the world has ever seen ’cause I honestly wonder if Trump’s plan is to be such a bumbling fool that Israel and Palestine are going to get together in a room and say: ‘I think we can both agree that guy’s a fucking moron,’” he said.
On Full Frontal with Samantha Bee, the comic discussed the many changes that have happened in the last few weeks that most people are unaware of, saying the Republican Congress had gone “hog wild like Amish twins on a Rumspringa”.
She brought up their use of the Congressional Review Act which allows for the rollback of any law that Obama introduced in his last six months in power. “When the current Congress discovered this fun toy, they were excited as a puppy discovering a dildo and just as destructive,” she said.
In particular, she talked about the Endangered Species Act which is being modernized in “the same way an elderly volunteer modernized that fresco of Jesus” in order to allow for oil drillings over the welfare of many animals.
“Here’s the thing: the vast majority of Americans support wildlife protection,” she said. “The Endangered Species Act unites conservative warriors and unemployed liberal farmers. For God’s sake, animals are awesome is the only safe topic of conversation most American families have left.”
But Trump isn’t someone who appears to care about the environment. “Unfortunately the guy who spends his life sealed in a no pets Isengard in the middle of Manhattan and never wears anything but a suit isn’t what you’d call a nature lover,” she said.
She went on to talk about Trump’s “staff of wildly incompetent bumblefucks” and the mess that’s been made in the first few weeks.
She showed footage of Kellyanne Conway defending Trump’s decision to hire and then protect the disgraced national security adviser Michael Flynn.
“When Donald Trump put his hand on those two Bibles and swore to preserve, protect and defend a mendacious, Kremlin-stroking nutbag who would wreck America’s national security apparatus in the span of four weeks, he meant it,” she said.
She gave closer attention to Paul Ryan, commonly spoken of as the intellectual of the right. “In today’s Republican party, that’s kind of like saying Mo is the smart stooge,” she said.
“How did a principled social and fiscal conservative like Ryan wind up in bed with a bigoted, adulterous grope-machine who wants to blow $25bn on a coyote urinal?” she said, before looking into Ryan’s fall from grace.
“Watching Ryan play moral watchdog was like watching Taylor Swift pretend to be surprised at an award show,” she said. “Bland and fake but weirdly compelling.”
She also questioned whether he is putting party over people. “Paul Ryan would put Cthulhu in the White House if it would let him privatize Medicare,” she said.
She finally stressed the importance of Ryan and how more attention should be paid to his many wrongdoings.
“If in theory, a hypothetical president, we’ll call him Doug, were to collude with a foreign enemy, engage in self-dealing, defy a co-equal branch of government, share state secrets with the entire early dinner seating of his private club, be clinically bonkers or worst of all, lie under oath about an alleged sex act, guess who would be expected to draw up articles of impeachment?” she said. “Stand out of groping range everyone, it’s going to be a long four years.”
On The Late Show, Stephen Colbert spoke about Andrew Puzder, “Trump’s labor nominee and suburban dentist you meet at the swingers party.”
He withdrew his name from consideration and one of the reasons may have been Oprah unearthing video footage of his ex-wife talking about his alleged abusive behavior. “Thank you, Oprah,” he said. “Oprah can do anything. Quick follow-up question, Oprah, no real reason but do you ever do any shows in Russia because we could use some help?”
He then criticized Trump for his latest set of tweets, claiming that the leaks of potential collusion with Russia were to paper over the fact that Hillary Clinton lost the election.
“You’re like the guy who’s still talking about the big touchdown he made 20 years ago,” he said. “By the way, Hillary won the popular touchdowns.”
He also spoke about Trump’s press conference with Netanyahu, joking: “As a courtesy, Trump asked his staff to put a 24-hour hold on retweeting neo-Nazis. That’s just good manners, he’s a lovely host. It’s funny because it’s necessary.”
Finally on Late Night with Seth Meyers, the ex-SNL comic claimed that “the government is fully engulfed in chaos” and that there was “an unprecedented level of dysfunction in the White House”.
He also said that “this administration is like a really intense haunted house where every door that you think is an exit is just a door to a scarier room.”
He brought up reports that even though Trump knew of Flynn’s calls with Russia, he didn’t want to fire him as he risked embarrassment.
“You’re the ‘you’re fired’ guy and you couldn’t bring yourself to fire someone?” he said. “That’s like finding out that Flo from the Progressive commercials rides the bus.”
A Canadian university professor claims to have found the only existing moving picture of French writer Marcel Proust.
The black-and-white footage of a wedding cortege filmed in 1904 shows a brief glimpse of a man in his 30s with a neat moustache, wearing a bowler hat and pearl-grey formal suit, descending a flight of stairs on his own. Most of the other guests are in couples.
Jean-Pierre Sirois-Trahan, a professor at the Laval University in Quebec, believes the film, which he found in the Centre National du Cinéma in Paris, could contain the only known footage of the author.
Sirois-Trahan says the film is of the marriage of Élaine Greffulhe, daughter of the Countess of Greffulhe, who was one of Proust’s close friends and the principal inspiration for his character Oriane de Guermantes in À La Recherche du Temps Perdu (In Search of Lost Time).
Exclu @juliencdt : ce serait le premier gif de Marcel Proust. https://t.co/HbrI3F5nKD pic.twitter.com/Enna00Gga4
Luc Fraisse, director of the Review of Proustian Studies, has no doubt the film shows Proust.
“Because we know every detail of Proust’s life, we know from several sources that during those years he wore a bowler hat and pearl grey suit... It’s moving to say to ourselves that we are the first to see Proust since his contemporaries... even if it would be better if he was descending the steps a little less quickly! It’ll be fine when we have slowed the film down,” Fraisse told Le Point magazine.
Sorbonne professor Jean-Yves Tadié, another Proust specialist, said he was delighted. “I’ve always thought we’d end up seeing him in a news film. The shape of the face, the approximate way of dressing, all corresponds to him, and the identification seems quite convincing,” Tadié told Le Point.
He added: “I find this discovery very moving, and all the more so because Proust always had an ambiguous relationship with moving images.
“It’s astonishing that nobody has thought to look for Proust in the archives of films of the Greffulhes before... It shows that new discoveries are still possible, even about an author who, it would seem, has already been so minutely studied.”
Proust died in 1922 aged 51. His most famous work, In Search of Lost Time, was published in seven parts between 1913 and 1927.
Sirois-Trahan, however, remains cautious about his find. “Everything leads us to believe this could be Proust,” he said, but added: “There can be no absolute proof that it is indeed Proust. But in any case, it’s a valuable document about the world of In Search of Lost Time.”
Larenz Tate’s new podcast Bronzeville (iTunes) isn’t so much an audio drama as a movie served up in 10 episodes. It’s pure escapism, turning the clock back to the 1940s, when the African-American neighbourhood of the same name on Chicago’s South Side was thriving.
Now two episodes in, the opener paints an evocative picture of Bronzeville, with its plush shopping district, apartments for middle-income families and Washington Park, “the playground of the South Side”. Like the atmospheric Homecoming, it’s a high-quality podcast that uses Hollywood actors to voice roles. With an evocative soundtrack and strong characters who are easy to get to know, it’s not long before you’re immersed in the story. It has moments of violence made even more sharp by the need to fill in the blanks with your mind.
Tate stars as Jimmy Tillman, who goes on the run after stabbing a white man in self-defence. Laurence Fishburne is local gangster Curtis Randolph and Tika Sumpter is Lisa Copeland, who has just graduated from college, but missed the ceremony because black students weren’t allowed to go up on stage. “I got a great education. That’s the important thing. Maybe one day they’ll let us be part of the show,” she says, rising above it, just as she does when her white friends patronise her.
Bronzeville residents chase the American dream, but scratch the surface and you’ll find an underground gambling racket and the need to stay strong in the face of racial tension. “Everybody knows what happens if we don’t stand together,” says Randolph, wisely. When Jimmy is told that the Soviet Union has laws against prejudice, he’s cynical. “How’s that work?” he scoffs. “They figured out how to outlaw what people think?”
When Jimmy and Lisa cross paths in the Royale nightclub, there’s a real sense of fun and glamour under a cloud of gangster goings-on. The voiceover paints a picture of a community holding its head high and living the best possible life: “Bronzeville’s people have never let poverty, disease and discrimination get them down … The vigour with which they enjoy life seems to belie the gloomy observations of statisticians and civic leaders who know the facts about the black ghetto.” Glossy, intriguing and slick, Bronzeville will have you hooked.
If you like this, try this… Homecoming
Philip Pullman has added his voice to critics of the Carnegie medal, one of the UK’s most prestigious children’s book awards, after an exceptional year for books by black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) novelists failed to make a dent on its longlist. Writers of colour, led by Alex Wheatle and Sunny Singh, have called for a boycott of the award.
Despite strong showings by writers of colour in every other major children’s book prize this year, not one appeared on the 20-strong longlist for the CILIP Carnegie medal, which is chosen by librarians around the country. The Carnegie, which was established in 1935, has never been won by a BAME writer.
“It’s appalling. There is no other way to describe it,” said Wheatle, who won the 2016 Guardian children’s fiction prize with Crongton Knights. He added that he had instructed his publisher Hachette not to submit his forthcoming novel, Straight Outta Crongton, for next year’s prize.
Though the author was on the Carnegie medal nominations list of 114 books, alongside other BAME writers including Malorie Blackman and Patrice Lawrence, he slammed the failure of the judges to longlist any of them. “They are just ticking a box,” he said. “When it comes to the serious part of the award – the longlist and shortlist – we just aren’t there. We continue to submit our work every year and they treat us like this.”
Singh, who set up the Jhalak prize to tackle the lack of representation of British BAME writers in publishing, was furious at the snub: “I’m just looking at the Carnegie and thinking how is this OK?” she said, attacking claims on social media that the books were not good enough. “That argument is consistently repeated,” she said. “Are they really saying that in a year that had such extraordinary books from writers of colour?”
She called for white authors to pull out of the prize, saying: “There has to be collective action. It cannot just BAME writers against it, it has to be all authors. It’s all very well for already marginalised people to do a boycott, but if you are already excluded, what difference will it make to not enter?”
Support for Singh came from Philip Pullman, who won the Carnegie in 1995. “In every area of social and cultural and political life, people who aren’t white are regarded by the prevailing mindset as marginal,” he said. “I welcomed the recent awards of the Man Booker prize to Paul Beatty and Marlon James for that reason, and I’d very much welcome a more inclusive and thoughtful list from the Carnegie judges, because children’s books ought to be – as I’ve always argued – very much included in our discussion of books in general.”
Author Alan Gibbons, who has been Carnegie-shortlisted twice, said the omissions were a scandal: “Why has Malorie Blackman never won? Bali Rai, Leila Rashid, Alex Wheatle, Benjamin Zephaniah, Catherine Johnson, Candy Gourlay? It is high time the Carnegie reflected multi-ethnic Britain.”
The Carnegie is an important award to children’s authors because of its influence on what is stocked in school libraries. Jo Mead, who co-manages the Southwark book award, which is chosen by pupils in the south-east London borough, said: “The Carnegie prides itself on ‘reflecting the very real issues children have to deal with’ and supporting books ‘which help to make sense of the world’, and while the subjects covered by the list are very laudable, its blanket choice of authors excludes a very large part of the real world and its issues – certainly for my students in Peckham.”
A 2015 report by CILIP found that 96.7% library workers in the UK identify as white, almost 10% above the national workforce average in the UK Labour Force Survey.
Patrice Lawrence, whose novel Orangeboy has been shortlisted for a clutch of awards, including the 2016 Costa children’s book of the year and the Waterstones children’s prize, said the failure of BAME authors to make the cut in the Carnegie reflected a wider problem. “There is still a really big issue that if you are a white author who writes about black lives you get on [awards lists], but if you are a black author then you don’t,” she said. “It really comes down to the powerful role of gatekeepers in prestigious literary prizes. If they are not looking for diverse authors, there is an issue.”
Previous Carnegie winners that have focused on black lives include 2015’s Buffalo Soldier by Tanya Landman and The Other Side of Truth by South African writer Beverly Naidoo in 2000.
Nick Poole, CILIP chief executive, said that it “acknowledges and respects the concerns expressed” and added that the librarians choosing the longlist, shortlist and winner were committed to CILIP’s stated ethical principles, the first of which stipulates “concern for the public good in all professional matters, including respect for diversity within society, and the promoting of equal opportunities and human rights”.
“The books on the longlist are judged on merit and on an equal playing field. This year’s longlist represents, in the opinion of the judges, the very best books of the year, with no consideration of gender or ethnicity of either the writer, illustrator or audience,” said Poole. “The broad subject matter of this year’s longlist – stories about refugees, disability and migration – illustrates the breadth of range that the medals are known for.”

Philosophical puzzle, memento mori, bleak joke on the nature of existence: interpret it however you want, but Hamlet lifting a skull is one of the defining dramatic images of all time. When Andrew Scott comes on for the graveyard scene at the Almeida later this month, in a production directed by Robert Icke, he will come face to face not only with Yorick, but with the ghosts of thousands of actors who, over the last four centuries, have done exactly the same.
No other piece of stage business has burned itself so deeply into the collective consciousness. All the greats have been there, from Richard Burbage to Thomas Betterton, Sarah Bernhardt to Laurence Olivier. Even Bart Simpson has got in on the act.
Given all this, it’s worth reflecting on the fact that, for Hamlet’s earliest audiences, seeing real human remains on stage would have been a shock. The diary of theatre manager Philip Henslowe (1550-1616), who ran the Rose on Bankside, lists any number of exotic props – among them a “snake”, a “tree of golden apples” and two “lion’s heads” – but a human skull is not among them. And as far as it’s possible to tell, no 16th-century play before Hamlet called for one.
Some have speculated that in creating the backstory of the jester Yorick, Shakespeare was paying tribute to a man called Richard Tarlton, Elizabeth I’s favourite clown and a huge star in the generation immediately before his own. Tarlton had died in 1588, so it’s theoretically possible his own cranium could have been available a decade or so later, provided Shakespeare’s company had not been too queasy about trying to get hold of it. But the props master at the Globe most likely employed the simplest option: bribing someone for access to the charnel house of a nearby church, where skeletal remains were stored.
As with so much about the early years of Hamlet’s life in the theatre, the evidence is vague, and it’s not until a century and half later that evidence of how the graveyard scene was staged begins to appear. In 1755, the critic Paul Hiffernan bemoaned the use of “real Skulls and bones in the Gravedigging Scene of Hamlet, to which a wooden Substitution might be easily made”. By the 1850s, another critic was lamenting the “highly indecent, at the same time repulsive to the audience” practice of employing human remains.
Such concerns lingered into the 20th century. After bringing a real skull into rehearsals at the National Theatre in 1975, director Peter Hall was overwhelmed by the “actuality of the scene … everybody aware of a dead man’s skull among us”. So much so that he decided not to use it in the performance. Since then, companies have experimented with wooden, plaster, papier-mache, fibreglass or plastic replicas, though as much for reasons of fragility as human dignity.
Yet even if actors or audiences are unnerved by the idea of using real remains, there seems to have been no shortage of people eager to donate their own and achieve a few moments of posthumous glory. The American actor Edwin Booth, who became a phenomenon as Hamlet on Broadway from the 1860s onwards, was reputed to have used a skull given to his actor-manager father by a notorious horse thief so desperate to appear in Hamlet that he was willing to do so even after his own death.
A similar tale concerns the barnstorming English star George Frederick Cooke (1756–1812), whose skull was reputedly retrieved from his grave and used at a one-off performance in New York in the 1860s. According to a witness – who swore to the prop’s authenticity – Cooke “enacted a great part that night”, thus stealing the show one last time. Another skull has become even more famous: signed by many of the great Hamlets of the 19th century, among them Booth, William Charles Macready, Edwin Forrest and Charlotte Cushman, it now resides in the Furness Memorial Library at the University of Pennsylvania, testament to the hazy line between real-life remains and theatrical relic.
It is a tradition that has continued up to the present day, as the story of musician and theatre-lover André Tchaikowsky attests. After Tchaikowsky’s death in 1982, it was discovered that the pianist had donated his body to medical research, with the proviso that his skull would be offered to the Royal Shakespeare Company. Mark Rylance rehearsed with it seven years later, but was unsettled by the story of its provenance, and it wasn’t until David Tennant played Hamlet in 2009 that the skull was finally used in a live performance, which provoked a minor media frenzy.
Even though the company claimed that the prop had been replaced by a replica, so as not to “distract” audiences, artistic director Gregory Doran admitted months later that Tchaikowsky had in fact starred alongside Tennant throughout. Currently, the company keeps at least four fake skulls in its props warehouse in Stratford, and would be prepared to manufacture more if a director or actor requested it.
The story of how actors have handled the skull is no less varied. The great Victorian actor Henry Irving reportedly “stroked Yorick’s skull gently with his hand”, in performances in the 1870s, while the French star Charles Fechter (1824–79) made as if to kiss it, before turning away with a shiver.
In his 1948 film adaptation, Laurence Olivier pointedly touched the skull’s cheekbone at the line “let her paint an inch thick”, and whispered bitterly in its ear at “make her laugh at that”. In a modern-dress production, Ralph Fiennes out-Fechtered Fechter, “plant[ing] his lips on Yorick’s mucky skull, as if curious about the taste of mortal soil”, in the words of the New Yorker’s critic.
So enduring – or cliched – has the symbol become that some directors have dispensed with it altogether. Thomas Ostermeier’s production, first seen at Berlin’s Schaubühne in 2008, cut the gravedigger scene entirely, merely hinting at Yorick’s presence with projected video imagery of a skull, which tracked eerily across Hamlet’s own features. When Maxine Peake played an androgynous Dane in 2014, her switch of gender was not the only transformation on offer. Instead of picking up something resembling a real cranium, the object she addressed as “Yorick” was a rolled-up beige sweater.
What will Andrew Scott do? No one’s saying, but given that his director, Robert Icke, transformed Aeschylus’s Oresteia into a kind of TV gameshow and renamed Chekhov’s Uncle Vanya “Uncle Johnny”, presumably we should expect the unexpected.
• Hamlet is at the Almeida, London, 17 February to 8 April. Box office: 020-7359 4404.
• This article was amended on 22 February 2017. An earlier version placed the Furness Memorial Library at Philadelphia University. It is at the University of Pennsylvania, in Philadelphia.
What is it? A romcom sitcom about what happens when a happily married couple start dating a third person, together.
Why you’ll love it: You Me Her tells the story of Jack and Emma Trakarsky, a married couple pushing 40 with a nice big house, aspirational jobs and a tepid sex life. They like each other almost as much as they like eating at the street food vans in their home city of Portland, but, as Emma admits, she’s kind of relieved when they do have sex, because it means she’s off the hook for a while.
The wheels are in motion for a retro romcom with an ultra-current twist. With surprising ease, Jack (Greg Poehler, wide-eyed brother of Amy) takes the advice of his boorish older brother and hires an escort, Izzy, with the roundabout intention of making himself more attracted to his wife. He quickly confesses all to Emma (Rachel Blanchard, who played Cher in the TV version of Clueless and Nancy in Peep Show), who does the sensible thing and hires Izzy for a date herself, which ends in much bathroom snogging and a barrage of confusion for all parties.
In the very first episode of the sketch show Portlandia, the residents of the city band together to sing their imagined anthem: “the dream of the 90s is alive in Portland”. You Me Her takes that very literally. It’s so 90s that it’s practically wearing a skinny T-shirt and a choker. The characters talk about their feelings, a lot, usually while walking in a park. There are many montages, some of which involve bad dancing. There’s loads of irony. There’s even a nod to the biggest 90s romcom cliche of all at the end of the first season, though this might have worked better had Jack not continued to point out that what they were doing was a romcom cliche.
For all its attempts to explore what feels like a contemporary question – is monogamy the only way? – there’s something incredibly earnest and old-fashioned about You Me Her. There is no suggestion that it’s merely about sex and desire, as emotions and attachments form rapidly, and in fact, what it leans towards is a pretty traditional form of a non-traditional relationship. It also feels like television that could only have been conceived of pre-Trump: an architect and a teacher at a private school skipping through their sunny middle-class life inventing problems somehow seems more indulgent than it did back in October.
Nonetheless there is something charming about it. Poehler and Blanchard are just the right side of sweet, while Priscilla Faia, who plays Izzy, is just the right side of intense. The three-way chemistry is palpable. The lingering shots of Portland are not unpleasant. It sits somewhere between a sex farce and Sleepless In Seattle, which is not a combination that should be successful, but on occasion, when the jokes land as they should, it hits the spot. A second season has just begun on its US home, Audience Network, which means there’s a lot of logistical work for the throuple to do yet.
Where: Netflix
Length: 10 half-hour episodes
Stand-out episode: Episode six. After much sincerity about its romantic intentions, it finally gets silly, as the nosy neighbours and one very irritated boyfriend descend upon Jack and Emma’s house to find out what exactly is going on in there.
If you liked You Me Her, watch: Easy, Love, anything Judd Apatow has done recently.
By revitalising fairytales in The Bloody Chamber (1979) – infusing them with eroticism, making their passive heroines sexier, smarter and stronger, telling them with what Sarah Hall has called “lit-up prose” – Carter initially emboldened other literary authors to tackle supernatural themes afresh. Then her approach, duly toned down for mass consumption, became a model for the feminist-lite reinvention of other disregarded genres in print and on screen, in adult and children’s fiction – from vampire horror (Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Twilight) to SF dystopia (The Hunger Games) to Disney princesses with attitude (Frozen, Brave) – and so played a significant part in fantasy’s resurrection and its ascendancy in the bestseller and box office charts since the late 90s. (It’s a rather fascinating coincidence that when JK Rowling had the 1990 epiphany in which she thought up the Harry Potter saga, she and Carter were both living in Clapham, south London).
They range from Anne Enright (taught by her at UEA) to Neil Gaiman (has said he was inspired by her seeing each fairy story as “a loaded gun ... a bomb”) to Sarah Waters (indebted to Carter’s historical novel Nights at the Circus in her early work). In his biography of herThe Invention of Angela Carter, Edmund Gordon also names Nicola Barker, China Miéville, David Mitchell, Ali Smith and Jeanette Winterson as novelists from the next generation who have acknowledged her influence. Others have suggested an impact on figures from her own generation, such as Margaret Atwood, AS Byatt and Salman Rushdie. Her re-energisation of the short story form has also been seen as seminal.
Just as Carter championed the Marquis de Sade as an unlikely ally of feminism in her non-fiction study The Sadeian Woman, EL James audaciously made his fiction a model for her tale of female empowerment via BDSM, Fifty Shades of Grey. Her Anastasia is the antithesis of a Carter heroine; but Carter was not averse to alpha-male characters (eg Duke in “Wolf-Alice”) in her celebrations of transgressive sexuality, and it has been noted that her bloody chamber anticipates Christian Grey’s “red room”.
They existed before, particularly in the US, but Carter’s writings for New Society and the LRB had a different, cultural studies-like sensibility (post-Barthes, Benjamin and Berger) and ranged freely across subjects such as films, sci-fi, fashion, food and sex, rather than being one-off reporting assignments or a regular column or reviewing gig. The likes of Geoff Dyer, John Lanchester, Andrew O’Hagan and Will Self, who similarly double up today, are closer to her than to, say, Norman Mailer or Martin Amis.
Set up in response to the omission of Carter’s Wise Children from the all-male 1991 Booker shortlist, as its original name – the Angela Carter prize – reflected.
Would thousands of students have ploughed through Ann Radcliffe and Horace Walpole, had Carter’s tales not also been part of their gothic lit module? She is also prominent in gender and cultural studies courses, thanks to her Nothing Sacred essays and The Sadeian Woman as well as her fiction, and Marina Warner has identified The Bloody Chamber as the inspiration for her own scholarly work on myths and fairytales.
Carter had genuine muso credentials (as part of the 60s Bristol folk scene) so would be delighted that indie band Wolf Alice take their name from her story mashing up Charles Perrault and Lewis Carroll. Singer-songwriter Polly Paulusma and experimental pop outfit Let’s Eat Grandma also nod to her. While she is routinely invoked, though, in reviews of leading singer-songwriters - Björk, PJ Harvey, Laura Marling – if there is an influence it’s elusive: Florence Welch only bought one of her books after being compared to her, and efforts to persuade Kate Bush that she must have read her have proved unavailing.
More than a decade before Richard Dawkins and Christopher Hitchens, Carter was scandalising the god-fearing. More sly subversion than frontal attack, her 1991 Channel 4 film The Holy Family Album mischievously treated religious art as a divine photo album. It caused a flap and has never been repeated.
The cover of the Lorsch Gospels is one of the most unexpected beauties in any of our museums. This yellowish-white carving comes from the depths of the dark ages, when Europe was supposedly a primitive and barbaric place – yet it is a delicate and subtle artistic masterpiece.
It was made in Aachen, Germany, in about 810 to protect a splendid illuminated manuscript produced at the court of the Emperor Charlemagne. Its harmonious design, symmetrical arches, putti and robed figures cleverly emulate the lost splendour of ancient Rome – a splendour Charlemagne longed to restore. In the lowest panel, the infant Christ lies in a manger watched over by an ox and ass in one of the earliest nativity scenes in art. This tender portrayal has a loving humanity that communicates directly with us across the centuries.
And it could become illegal in Britain. Under new rules being seriously considered by the government, if a work of this age and quality came on to the market, no British museum or private collector would be allowed to buy it. How long will it be, if this legislation is introduced, before campaigners take the next logical step and call for treasures such as the Lorsch Gospels cover to be taken off display, or even destroyed, like the obscenities they supposedly are?
For this early medieval wonder was carved from elephant ivory. Under new rules, it is illegal in Britain to trade in ivory objects made since 1947, a totally proper and necessary measure against the modern ivory trade and its incitement of ivory poaching. Yet campaigners including the World Wildlife Fund, Tusk and the Duke of Cambridge insist that doesn’t go far enough. Illegal ivory traders can forge pre-1947 antiques, they claim, in calling for a total ban on all trade in ivory objects. Unbelievably, the government is taking seriously the idea of banning trade in all ivory antiques, however old.
There is no rational argument for criminalising some of the greatest art in history just because it does not satisfy 21st-century moral qualms. The Lorsch Gospels cover comes from a time wildly different from our own, with totally alien ideas and beliefs. Elephants were legendary beasts to Europeans in the ninth century, their ivory a wonder. It also happened to make a good artistic material: easy to carve, yet enduring. It is absurd to look at the Lorsch Gospels and see nothing but brutality towards elephants, yet this historically ignorant, narrow-minded view may be enshrined in British law.
The argument that modern ivory objects can easily be disguised as older ones does not hold water. An organic material, ivory can also be carbon dated – a test announced in 2013 even measures the age of ivory accurately within the 20th century using traces of nuclear radiation. Carbon dating helped convict an illegal ivory trader in Britain last year.
Even without carbon dating, it is easy to disinguish medieval masterpieces from crude modern imitations. The notion that criminal ivory traders can easily knock up a masterpiece like, say, the ivory salt cellar from 16th-century Benin whose pungent portraits of Portuguese soldiers can be seen in the British Museum, is obviously nonsense. The real drive to ban all ivory objects is to express a dislike of anything that embodies cruelty to animals.
Prince William made this explicit when he reportedly said he would like all ivory in the royal collection “destroyed”. That’s a passionate response to the horror of the ivory trade, not a rational way to fight it. How can 21st-century poachers be defeated by destroying 19th-century ivory artworks given as gifts to Queen Victoria? This does not stop modern crimes. Instead it criminalises the art of the past.
Ivory art made before modern times is not just beautiful and skilled – it is a document of global encounters before modern times. An “oliphant” in the British Museum is a hunting horn covered with African scenes that reveals a cultural dialogue between the Arab world, sub-Saharan Africa and the kingdom of Portugal in the 16th century. It also happens to be carved out of an elephant’s tusk. To see the tusk and ignore the history is to narrow our minds.
Paul Heermann’s early-18th-century ivory sculpture of Christ on the cross meanwhile, in the V&A, was made almost a thousand years after the Lorsch Gospels but still comes from a world that had no understanding of the vulnerability of the species. If we stop ourselves looking at such premodern ivory we will be philistines and bigots, congratulating ourselves on a victory over art. The next step is cultural destruction. We should leave this deadly line of thinking to Islamic State.
I had to laugh when I read about a Guns N’ Roses guitar technician greeting “Sydney” as the band came on stage. They were in Melbourne. I laughed because as an Australian I know about the inter-city rivalry between Sydney and Melbourne. That’s like calling a New Zealander an Aussie, or a Scotsman an Englishman. No wonder there were boos from the crowd.
But I was also relieved that it wasn’t one of the band members themselves who had made the mistake, for as a performer, it’s one of your worst nightmares and something I’ve almost done numerous times. I am forever saying, “Hello (insert city)” and then immediately thinking, “Oh no, did I get that right?”
Most of the venues I play are much smaller than those of Guns N’ Roses, so they generally have something that clearly distinguishes them from the venue the night before. It could be some quirky lampshades; or a dressing room the size of a toilet; in some cases a dressing room that is a toilet; or a stage too small to actually fit all your equipment, meaning one of your band members has to play standing in the crowd.
Time and location get blurred when you’re moving so quickly around the globe
I’ve found being on arena tours makes getting lost and confused all too easy, as Spinal Tap satirises so brilliantly. But whatever the scale, touring is a sleep-depriving occupation and the hours around your short amount of time on stage are long. I average about 200 shows per year, so most nights I don’t get to sleep in my own bed.
Time and location get blurred when you’re moving so quickly around the globe. Recently I played in Cologne, and it wasn’t until after the gig, when I went out the front to sign merchandise that I realised I’d played the venue just five months before. Luckily, the crowd didn’t seem too offended that I hadn’t remembered them. Many times have I thanked the crowd for coming out on a Monday night, when it fact it was Friday. At least people don’t boo at those gaffs. They just laugh.
Pronouncing place names correctly can also trip you up. A friend of mine once greeted Leominster phonetically, only to discover it’s pronounced “Lemster”. As an Australian living in the UK, I know all too well about these mispronunciations.
To create intimacy with a room full of strangers, you need to make each show and crowd feel unique, despite the aforementioned blurriness, and the fact that you’re playing the same songs in the same order, and with the same, or similar, banter occurring at the same time point in the set. There is a certain amount of crowd flattery that goes on, to make the audience feel special. It’s an important part of the job. But crowds aren’t always so easily won over.
On the first proper tour I ever did, in 2008, I had to resort to blowing a whistle just to get everyone’s attention. I was opening for Frank Turner and we were playing rock venues full of students. I was used to folk clubs, but these crowds were so loud I couldn’t even hear myself sing. On the third night, I borrowed a whistle off the drummer and went out on stage blowing it loudly before shouting into the mic: “Shut the fuck up!” Being a petite woman armed with just an acoustic guitar, I think it shocked them into being quiet.
A gentler trick performers employ is inserting the host city’s name in a song. Turner even once did an entire US tour covering a song by a local musician at each show. When I toured an album called Dear River a few years ago, each night I asked the crowd from stage what their local river was and they shouted it back at me. Then, after the show I had loads of people come up to tell me stories about their watery expanse: their morning walks and the birds they’ve seen there, their escapades on canoes or boats, how they used to swim in the river as children. These are meaningful, personal interactions.
And that’s the truth– most nights do feel special. So don’t take it personally if we performers sometimes forget where we are momentarily.
Changes to the the UK’s art export system have been demanded after the National Gallery raised £30m to purchase a Renaissance masterpiece – only to be turned down by its American owner because of the post-Brexit exchange rate.
The gallery confirmed on Thursday that its offer to buy Jacopo Pontormo’s Portrait of a Young Man in a Red Cap had been refused.
The case of the Pontormo is unprecedented. It was purchased from its former owner, the Earl of Caledon, by the billionaire US hedge fund owner Tom Hill in 2015. It was sold despite an agreement with the gallery, where the work had been on loan, that there would be a three-month warning of any intention to sell.
After its sale, a committee of experts advised a temporary export bar to allow a UK buyer time to come up with a matching offer. The gallery succeeded but the post-Brexit decline in the value of sterling meant Hill was effectively making a loss on the deal of more than $10m (£8m), it was claimed.
The Art Fund, which had offered £750,000 to the fundraising campaign, said the export licence system needed reform.
Its director, Stephen Deuchar, said: “Today’s news that Tom Hill, the American buyer of Pontormo’s Portrait of a Young Man in a Red Cap, has refused the National Gallery’s matching offer of over £30m marks a great cultural loss to the nation. We believe the UK’s art export control system should serve our public collections more effectively than at present.”
He said the rules governing the export licence process were imprecise and difficult to enforce, which had resulted in the Pontormo situation.
“Licence applicants should be required to give a clear and legally binding commitment to abide by the rules – which they are not at present – and we have recommended a number of other specific improvements in addition. We ask government to undertake a formal review of the process and to introduce these measures now to help better protect our nation’s most important works of art so they may remain in the UK, held in trust for current and future generations.”
The National Gallery itemised how it had raised the money to buy the artwork. The biggest amount, £19.4m, came from the Treasury. There was also £3.3m from American Friends of the National Gallery, £2.1m of donations, £1.3m from the National Gallery Trust, £4m from the Heritage Lottery Fund, £750,000 from the Art Fund and £250,000 from gifts in wills.
The Pontormo, dated 1530, is one of only 15 surviving portraits by the Florentine painter and one of few examples of his work residing outside his native Italy. It was on loan to the National Gallery from 2008-15, and its future fate remains to be seen.
It cannot leave the UK because ministers have refused an export licence. A spokesman for the gallery said there were no plans to loan it from the current owner.
The combination of artistry and emotional directness in this film is overwhelming. Barry Jenkins writes and directs, having adapted Tarell Alvin McCraney’s unproduced play In Moonlight Black Boys Look Blue. Moonlight is about a young African American man and his coming of age, presented as three stages in his life, like the panels of a triptych. The film has power and generosity, giving such full access to his thoughts and feelings that it’s as if you are getting them delivered intravenously. It is the kind of film that leaves you feeling somehow mentally smarter and physically lighter.
Love, sex, survival, mothers and father figures are its themes, the last one foregrounded by the poignant absence of the fathers themselves. Moonlight put me in mind of John Singleton, Terrence Malick and Charles Burnett, but also Edmund White’s A Boy’s Own Story; the structure even had me thinking about Tolstoy’s trilogy: Childhood, Boyhood and Youth. There is an array of visually ravishing dream sequences, epiphanic surges, hallucinatory closeups, lush swathes of music. Jenkins is not shy of breaking out Mozart’s Laudate Dominum over a woozy, wordless scene of kids playing.
The protagonist comes to be named Black: macho, gym-built, with gold teeth; a man of few words. He got out of jail to start a new life far from his Miami home town, ending up in Atlanta, Georgia, “trapping” – that is, dealing on street corners. But Black has a secret: something he keeps hidden from other people, and maybe even himself. He is gay. How did he get here?
Jenkins takes us through the scenes of his life: as a kid he is called Little (Alex Hibbert), always getting picked on, worried about his drug-addicted mom, Paula (Naomie Harris). As a teen, he is known by his given name Chiron. Now he is played by Ashton Sanders, and he is recognisably the same kid, only a bit older, slight, spindly, gawky, with a watchful silence that is a symptom of and a defensive strategy against the vicious bullying he endures from Terrel (Patrick Decile), a guy who has a malicious sixth sense for Chiron’s growing relationship with classmate Kevin (played by Jaden Piner as a kid and Jharrel Jerome as a teen). Finally, as a result of rage, self-hate and jail time, Chiron bulks up, grows new layers of muscle and becomes unrecognisable in his last evolutionary stage of development: reinventing himself as Black (Trevante Rhodes). Then he gets a phone call from his past: Kevin (André Holland), is now out of prison himself, an absent father, working as a chef.
The narrative arc is both initiated and held together by a wonderfully charismatic performance from an actor who appears only in the first act: it is Mahershala Ali, playing Juan, the Miami drug-baron with a kindly, fatherly side who protects Little when he sees him getting chased by other kids. Juan lets Little stay at his place occasionally, looks out for him; he gives him a swimming lesson which becomes a kind of baptism. Juan provides food, comfort, support, but also drugs. He is a very questionable caregiver and role model, with an inexpressibly painful and ironic relationship with Little and his mom, and Jenkins shows how Black’s own conflicted destiny follows the example laid down long ago by Juan.
The casting of three different actors is a visible part of the film’s theatrical inheritance: a formally stylised effect, with each new incarnation a jolt, and obviously different from the incremental, almost geological changes achieved in Richard Linklater’s real-time movie Boyhood. But it is not there to distance you. Interestingly, Naomie Harris’s performance is spread out over the movie’s running time and the changes in her character’s appearance are subtler and more naturalistic: she deteriorates with drug use but then achieves a kind of stability and dignity as an older woman. It is a great performance.
Moonlight is moving and mysterious: a dance to the music of time, in its way. But it also shows that the three stages can be considered in parallel, as well as in sequence: Little/Chiron/Black is a palimpsest of identities. Moonlight is a film about masculinity, the wounds and crises of which are the same for all sexualities, but conditioned by the background weather of race and class. “I cry so much sometimes I might turn to drops,” confesses Chiron to Kevin, and, as for so many men, growing up for him is the search for ways to cauterise sadness, to anaesthetise it with rage. Moonlight finds a way to convert it into happiness.
Cellists are lining up to pay tribute to Mstislav Rostropovich in what would have been his 90th year, but Alban Gerhardt’s is an especially apt homage, showcasing the Russian master’s commitment to expanding his instrument’s repertoire and popularity, at the same time as celebrating his sense of fun.
It’s not a bad vehicle for the sparky Gerhardt and pianist Markus Becker, either. Rostropovich, with his knack for making the cello seem to sing, would surely have approved of their seamless playing of Glazunov’s arrangement of Chopin’s C sharp minor Etude, Op 25 No 7, in which the German cellist’s dark timbre engenders a very Russian sense of yearning. Amid miniatures by Scriabin, Stravinsky, Popper and Ravel, there are Rostropovich’s own arrangements, including a riotous March by Prokofiev and a slidy, twangy version of Debussy’s Minstrels. The disc is bookended by two rare pieces by Rostropovich himself, a scurrying Humoresque and an intricate Moderato for cello alone.
Fans of Philip Pullman and his wonderful His Dark Materials trilogy are in for an abundance of treats over the next few years. Pullman’s long-promised followup The Book of Dust – which turns out to be a trilogy itself – has its first volume arriving in October, while the BBC is working on a TV adaptation of His Dark Materials that is set to start filming in autumn.
So not only might we finally get the screen adaptation that the books deserve (let’s continue pretending that the sanitised monstrosity that was The Golden Compass never actually happened, agreed?), we also get to dive in to the world anew, meeting new characters and – more importantly – getting reacquainted with Lyra Silvertongue.
If we needed a reason to reread His Dark Materials, there are now two . Despite the first book having been published 22 years ago, the trilogy is a glowing antidote to the murky and unpleasant reality we’re currently living in. Pullman has ridden back on his agnostic/atheist steed to teach us lessons about rejecting corrupt authority, favouring facts over unfounded beliefs and being true and tolerant to yourself and others.
If you think Harry Potter is a great political allegory for today’s world, then you’ve obviously not read His Dark Materials. Yes, the Potter books give us a dangerous fascist on the rise, but His Dark Materials gives us an enemy that is not only already the accepted authority, but happens to be the bloomin’ Catholic church. The Magisterium, as Pullman renames it, is an organisation in the ultimate position of power; to criticise it is to blaspheme. Just as Donald Trump’s doubters across the pond are branded “unpatriotic” for daring to question their new president, so too critics of the Magisterium are quickly shut down.
Pullman has been savaged in some places for his brutal takedown of religion, but his real target is institutionalised belief and the leaders who use scripture to justify their wants or hates. The same kind of fierce scrutiny could also be applied to a political leader or party seeking to rule by fear, or legislate for personal gain.
The Magisterium, just like many religious and political bodies, has a nebulous enemy it seeks to control – in this case, the mysterious Dust (hopefully soon to be slightly less mysterious with the new trilogy). Dust stands in as the cause of everything it opposes, everything from free sexuality to the independent-mindedness in children as they become young adults. Here, Pullman’s allegory tips over into explicit political commentary: the Magisterium harms children in a fantastical but heart-wrenching way, by permanently separating them from their Dæmons (a physical embodiment of a human soul), and thus stunting their sexual and intellectual growth. In case that symbolism isn’t explicit enough, Pullman even refers to genital mutilation, a problem that we’re barely any closer to solving now than we were in 1995, when Northern Lights was first published.
Pullman wrote His Dark Materials two decades ago, but the books are full of lessons we could all learn from. While the Church of England is still debating gay marriage, Pullman gives us gay angels with Baruch and Balthamos. While opinion takes growing precedence over fact, Pullman gives us characters who constantly reassess and revise their own stances. Through Mrs Coulter and Lord Asriel, Pullman reveals there is bravery in admitting you were wrong.
And putting aside allegories and hidden meanings, His Dark Materials is just so damn joyful. Don’t get me wrong, you’re going to bawl your eyes out, no matter how many times you’ve read it, and you’ll never look at a hare or a polar bear the same way again. But right now, we could do with a book that’s about a little person taking on her world’s biggest authority and not destroying it – but setting it free. His Dark Materials isn’t about killing a bad guy, it’s about banishing corruption and overthrowing a dangerous ideology. Let’s all start rereading, while we wait to see what The Book of Dust might have to teach us.
You could read it as an ironic reference to her newly blossoming career, but the fin most obviously referenced by the title of Sydney Bennett’s debut album is the fish kind. Bennett obscures the swirling script of the album’s artwork with a jagged-edged mohawk, both text and hair submerged in a colour wash that fades from aquamarine to a deep-sea navy blue.
It looks like classically slinky and slightly saccharine R&B disrupted by androgyny, which isn’t a million miles away from how Fin sounds. Bennett – 24 years old, formerly of hip-hop collective Odd Future and latterly their offshoot the Internet – takes the late 90s/early 00s iteration of the genre and furnishes it with a narrative volte-face in which she herself becomes the R&B flâneur: observing, admiring and desiring the female object.
Like her Odd Future compatriot Frank Ocean, Bennett’s queerness – something hinted at by her shaven-headed, skatewear-clothed appearance and confirmed in lyrics, videos and interviews – is relevant in the context of R&B, the genre in which she and Ocean both operate. It is one that has been dominated by sex and sensuality, but, like much pop, also characterised by their less appealing derivatives: raunch, restrictive heteronormative romantic tropes, as well as a certain falsettoed masculinity whose effeteness only serves to reinforce its aggressive virility. In singing about sex from a female, gay perspective, Bennett strips the style of its more discomfiting baggage – in Got Her Own, for example, she crushes on a financially independent woman – without ever making that seem remarkable.
In fact, subtlety is Fin’s watchword. The way Bennett’s perspective as a gay woman understatedly tinkers with the traditional R&B template is a microcosm of what she does on a wider sonic scale. Languid rapping, snappy trap snares, odd synths, and occasionally dissonant production supplement a sensual, soulful and astonishingly accomplished selection of songs that more often than not give the impression of being suspended underwater, cloaked in a distance and inertia that makes their captivating core accessible only with repeated listens – Know, for instance, is like an Aaliyah and Timbaland collaboration once removed from reality. It’s a style that demands attention – not through desperate ploys to get notice, but the opposite: a distinct lack of immediacy.
Bennett isn’t alone in this regard. This kind of approach to R&B – a tendency towards subtlety, complexity and experimentation that delays gratification until at the very least three listens in (a sound that has been labelled “alternative R&B”, to the chagrin of those who point out the genre has always been curious and pioneering) – is something the music industry currently has coming out of its ears, with industry behemoths like Beyoncé and Rihanna having ditched their obvious and frequently abrasive pop for it, long-time purveyors of the ideal like Solange and Ocean finding their feet and a raft of critically tipped young artists (many of them, such as Nao, Jorja Smith and Ray BLK, being British) establishing themselves in the midst of this new status quo.
Bennett’s petri dish, on the other hand, couldn’t have been further removed from this tastefulness – and perhaps it’s that which makes the record feel more like a reasoned stylistic choice than a nod to the zeitgeist. The Angeleno first came to notice as part of Odd Future, the controversial hip-hop collective that hit the headlines at the turn of the decade, primarily for the strange and disturbing rap of founding member Tyler, the Creator – whose favoured ghoulishly distorted vocals echo faintly around Fin – as well as the group’s general air of unsettling insouciance. In many ways the outfit were the closest thing to punk that mainstream music had encountered in recent memory. Bennett ended up as the group’s producer, then DJ, after she invited Tyler and Matt Martians – both of whom she had discovered and subsequently contacted through MySpace – to use the recording studio she had constructed in her parents’ guesthouse while experimenting with music production as a teenager (she had decided she wanted to produce music at an early age, an idea partially inspired by her uncle Mikey Bennett, who co-wrote Shabba Ranks’s Mr Loverman). Then, in 2011, Bennett left to form the Internet with Martians. She moved from a technical role to vocalist and songwriter, and created tracks that encompassed soul, hip-hop, R&B and funk (they have cited Jamiroquai as an influence apparently without irony).
The funk surfaces again here during an irresistibly groovy interlude on closing track Insecurities, which sees the protagonist end a relationship in which she was overlooked and unloved – an act informed by hard-won and still tenuous self-esteem. Lyrically, it’s remarkably nuanced: Bennett is besotted by her lover, but belatedly enlightened enough to “rebuke [her] evil ways”, telling her, with barely detectable bitterness over skidding, synthetically truncated beats, to “thank my insecurities” that the relationship ever happened in the first place.
Like the rest of this album, effortless sophistication gradually oozes out of this finale. As hinted at by the record sleeve’s oceanic shadows, Fin has depths that only become more apparent the longer you spend engulfed in them.
The coming-of-age novel can be almost as painful as actually coming of age. It’s a genre that demands a tricky combination of narrative knowingness and character naivety, while recruiting the reader’s sympathies for one of God’s least sympathetic creations: the teenager. Even so, many novelists choose it for their debut, and last year offered two examples that exemplified both the successes and frustrations of the form. Emma Cline’s The Girls was a woozy hormonal fug that found the horror in the thrill of growing up; Tiffany McDaniels’ The Summer that Melted Everything smothered its story’s gothic potential in stentorian hindsight.
Emily Fridlund’s debut falls between the two. Teenage narrator Linda gets called “commie” and “freak” by her schoolmates, and it’s small wonder that she doesn’t fit in when her background has precision-tooled her for oddness. Raised by parents who are the last vestiges of a failed cult, she lives a semi-wilderness life in a cabin at the edge of a lake, on the fringe of a northern Minnesota forest. Uncomfortable in the world, she spreads discomfort about her: “I was flat-chested, plain as a bannister. I made people feel judged.”
Life offers her two simultaneous chances to fit in, although both – as we know from the start – go terribly wrong. Firstly, there’s Mr Grierson, a new teacher who encourages Linda to enter the “History Odyssey” inter-school competition. Linda gives a presentation on the history of wolves, from which the novel takes its name. There is no such thing as a true “alpha wolf”, she tells her audience (and the reader): instead, “an alpha animal may only be alpha at certain times for a specific reason”. Linda memorises those lines like “an amendment to the constitution”. What they teach her about power changes her life, and directs the story of the novel.
Secondly, there’s four-year-old Paul, who along with his mother Patra moves into the cabin across the water from Linda. Linda’s background means she’s only really seen how to be a kid from the outside: “I remembered children from the playground where I’d watched them when I was growing up. Plus, I’d read some books with children in them,” she says. Paul is her chance to belong to a real family, to learn to be normal. Unfortunately, Paul is not normal. His parents are deeply involved in Christian Science and Paul himself is, we learn on page four, doomed.
This should be a recipe for morbid curiosity. But when everything is explicitly foreshadowed, nothing is at stake
Mr Grierson is not much better off. His concern for his pupils is not limited to innocent encouragement, and his fall is flagged soon after his introduction. God and grooming, child death and grotty sex, blame and betrayal – this should be a recipe for morbid curiosity. But when everything is explicitly foreshadowed, nothing is at stake. Fridlund carries on meticulously dressing her traps long after they’ve been sprung. In some ways, this is the standard literary fiction shortcoming of thinking plot is the least important part. In others, Fridlund’s weaknesses are her own.
Characters tend to be vague outlines with tics. Leo tucks his shirt in a lot; Linda’s mother baptises her obsessively. But there are none of the subtle mechanisms that make characters coherent – and capable of acting surprisingly. There is only one mood: slow and sad. A good teenage novel needs some riot with its woe (The Bell Jar, for example, is enormously funny, as well as being a book about suicide). Having given up the plot goods early, Fridlund’s hold on the reader slips too. For a novel that aspires to say something about about power, History of Wolves is strikingly impotent.
• To order History of Wolves for £11.04 (RRP £12.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
Miranda Hart will make her West End theatre debut in her “dream role” of Miss Hannigan in a new production of Annie.
The Call the Midwife actor said taking the part of the orphanage manager had put a spring in her step.
The role was made famous by Carol Burnett in the 1982 film version of the Broadway musical, which also starred Albert Finney as as wealthy industrialist Daddy Warbucks, the benefactor of orphan Annie.
Hart said: “Miss Hannigan is a dream role, and certainly has been for me, but I never thought it would be a reality. But here we are and I have a newly found musical theatre-esque spring in my step!
“I hope people will leave the theatre feeling life is a little better and dreamier and jollier after watching it, as much as we feel that performing it.
“Now if you’ll excuse me, I have some legwarmers to put on...”
The musical is set in 1930s New York during the Great Depression, and tells the story of 11-year-old Annie, who wants to escape from her life of misery at the orphanage to find her parents. The score includes songs such as It’s the Hard Knock Life, Tomorrow and Easy Street.
Previews of Annie, directed by Nikolai Foster and produced by Michael Harrison and David Ian, will begin at the Piccadilly Theatre on 23 May ahead of opening night on 5 June.
Hart will play Miss Hannigan until 17 September. Public booking opens on 27 February and the production will run until 6 January 2018.
“Apologies for the shirtlessness,” says Tom Hiddleston. “I didn’t want to show off.” The world’s most impeccably spoken Marvel baddie is looking awfully embarrassed. I’ve caught him emerging topless from his trailer, late at night, with female company. The makeup artist has been in with him, carefully pawing at his torso. Hiddleston is shooting a movie in Hawaii and, as it is, his skin doesn’t look sufficiently sun damaged. Muddier stuff is slathered on, and our star is good to go.
This dramatic tan is part of the latest, and perhaps most adventurous, step in Hiddleston’s ascent to the A-list: the lead role in a grand new reboot of the King Kong franchise. It is why we are both standing in mud in the middle of the night on the Hawaiian island of Oahu.
The question arises, though: do we really need another movie about King Kong? Ever since the romantic giant ape landed in New York in 1933 with a giant crush on Fay Wray, he has cropped up in at least another six films, most recently Peter Jackson’s handsome 2005 remake. In the latest reincarnation, Kong: Skull Island, he is getting the origins treatment – his story beginning again, ready to be continued in future films. Reassuringly, any reservations one might have about such a project seem to be shared by the film’s producers, who chuck around words such as “fresh” and “current” as casually as Kong juggles biplanes.
“I went in and pitched a movie I would want to see and my friends would want to see,” says the director, Jordan Vogt-Roberts. “I honestly thought they were going to laugh me out of the room. Then they responded really well and we started building that story.”
One can understand this initial concern. The 33-year-old has just one full-length credit to his name: the low-key coming-of-age indie The Kings of Summer. The only thing that film has in common with this one is that trees feature. Vogt-Roberts also looks every inch the indie director – gold medallions, heavy hipster beard – not a guy you would automatically trust with a reported $190m (£152m) budget. But maybe it is because of his indie credentials that the vibe on set seems so relaxed. There is an army-like camaraderie between the actors playing soldiers and those playing non-military folk.
So what is the movie that Vogt-Roberts and his pals would want to watch? Well, it’s set in 1972: the Vietnam war is almost over and the Landsat programme is dawning. For the first time, satellite imagery is able to capture the Earth as a whole and shine a light on previously unknown areas. A voyage to discover what really lies on a mysterious island is launched with a ragtag crew, all with conflicting missions.
“In the early 70s,” says Vogt-Roberts, “the world was in chaos, and I love the idea of using that as an access point for the characters, taking people who are in the middle of sexual revolutions and racial riots and losing wars for the first time and political scandals – people who are watching the world crumble around them – and sending them to an island untouched by man. There’s a sense of catharsis to that.”
But don’t be fooled by the film’s vintage feel. The producers are keen to  position this as a contemporary adventure. Recruiting Hiddleston, hot off award-winning TV show The Night Manager, is indicative, and he is surrounded by an eclectic and self-consciously contemporary ensemble. There is 2016’s best actress Oscar-winner Brie Larson, franchise addict Samuel L Jackson, character actor John C Reilly, Straight Outta Compton breakouts Corey Hawkins and Jason Mitchell, plus John Goodman, fresh from his terrifying turn in 10 Cloverfield Lane.
“It’s a pretty big family to be travelling around the world with,” Larson says, mid-midnight snack. We are in an open air tent and she is ploughing through salad, surprisingly energetic and awake. She has just done the umpteenth take of one especially draining scene; there are many more to come. “Usually, I’d be done by now,” she says with a grin. “Most films I’ve done are 20-, 30-day shoots. So I keep thinking this is the end and we’re not even a quarter of the way in.”
To create a place of unique otherworldliness that could conceivably exist on Earth, three locations – Australia, Vietnam and Hawaii – are being amalgamated. There is an emphasis on bricks–and-mortar sets rather than a CGI overload, which is reserved for the big man himself (a Kong record height of roughly 85ft/26 metres) and a host of nasty creatures with whom he shares his ecosystem. “Jordan always insisted that we should be in real places,” Hiddleston says. “There should be as little soundstage or green-screen work as possible. He was location-scouting for nine or 10 months.”
Despite the hour, he is animated and enthusiastic as he talks to me between takes. This scene involves the characters arguing over whether Kong is friend or foe. It is intense, but what is initially thrilling to watch from the wings becomes notably less exciting the 30th time round. While Hiddleston and Larson remain upbeat (she does an improvised workout with a prop gun whenever the camera stops rolling), Jackson is starting to feel the strain. “How many times have we done this?” he asks. No one seems to know.
When it comes to my chat with him, I’m gathered with a handful of other journalists and his weariness seeps through.
“Why do you think this King Kong is different from the other King Kongs that we’ve seen,” asks one journalist. “I don’t know. I haven’t seen it,” replies Jackson.
“When we spoke to the director and the other actors, they compared your character to Captain Ahab. Is that something that inspired you too,” asks another. “No,” says Jackson.
Still, at least Jackson made it to Hawaii this time. In 1992, he was due to head here to film his doomed role in Jurassic Park when a hurricane destroyed the set before his scenes were shot. His work on Steven Spielberg’s dinosaur thriller was consequently based in LA. His biggest challenge for both projects, he reports, remains the invisible co-stars.
“The first lesson I got on green screen was from George Lucas years ago: the more you do, the more we have to draw,” he says. Do the practical sets help? “No, because you still have to ask the same questions. How big is it? Where is it? How fast is it moving? Sometimes they don’t have the answer to that.”
At least his Avengers co-star is living and breathing, right? “Tom’s got his fans,” he says with a smile. “A lot of girls. It’s good to work with people you know and trust. I guess he’ll be going back into the Marvel universe and put that green suit on again. Hopefully, I’ll be back with my eye patch and we’ll be together again.”
The love is mutual: Hiddleston waxes on about how Jackson is “a consummate professional … just a very fine actor”. But that, surprisingly, is about it when it comes to romance in the film. Despite Kong’s penchant for women, in this version, he is all business, no pleasure.
“This is not a traditional Beauty and the Beast story,” says Vogt-Roberts. “I personally don’t want to see a damsel-in-distress story and I don’t think the rest of the world really wants to see that any more.”
This was a deal-breaker for Larson, too, who added tenacity to a victim narrative in Room and will next be squaring off with a warehouse full of gun-toting blokes in Ben Wheatley’s Free Fire. “We’re in a really interesting time when we’re interested in seeing something different,” she says. “I’ve seen women who have found their way to continue to be feminine but still exert a sense of force and a sense of strength, and that’s important to me.”
Kong: Skull Island, then, is dodging some familiar tropes. But it is also part of a very modern trend: not just a kickstart to one dusty franchise, but a way of breathing life into a shared universe, a world also inhabited by another giant of the screen: Godzilla. The breadcrumbs have already been dropped online, and there are easter eggs in the film to reward the hardcore monster fans. But, on set, everyone is tight-lipped about the upcoming face-off, scheduled for 2020.
“I don’t know much about it,” Hiddleston says. “We’ve got to finish this one. I obviously know it’s a plan and that’s what Legendary [the company in charge of both properties] wants to do. It’s exciting and something that hasn’t been done in a long time. If it’s done in the right way, then it could be cool.”
Godzilla 2, with its rather leading title, King of the Monsters, is next, with Millie Bobby Brown of Stranger Things attached. Might a Kong sequel be on the way, too? Vogt-Roberts shrugs off talk with a lightness befitting his roots, rather than his reality: “That’s a little bit above my pay grade.”
• Kong: Skull Island is released in the UK on 10 March.
In the same week that a man sent a woman a bill for £42.50 after she declined a second date, Channel 4’s First Dates saw one meet-up take an awkward turn this week: would-be couple Elaine and Steve were enjoying a lovely night, dancing together in the restaurant, before things went south when the bill came and Steve asked to go Dutch.
First, Steve held the bill, took a sharp intake of breath, and then spat out, “Oh I ain’t got all that”. Then he asked the waitress, Laura, to leave with it as he prepared himself for his request: that Elaine pay some of her own way. Then came the final flourish, which Steve delivered with gusto: when Elaine offered him some money, he said: “Put another tenner in.”
A three-act play in ruining a date, all in the space of 50 seconds. Steve tried to save face later with the classic “I’m all about equal opportunities” line – but the damage was done: the couple both decided they weren’t going to see each other again. Gentlemen, equality does not mean “everything stays the same but a woman has to pay for the date”. If anything, the state of the world means if chivalry and outdated patriarchy are going to screw women, the least you could is offer to pay for everything.
The politics of going Dutch is one of the most consistent dating preoccupations, along with how much should you expect to pay on the first date – and whether Nando’s is an appropriate first location (the answers to those questions are: “don’t be surprised to spend around £100 for a dinner and drinks date in London” and “yes, if that first date is more of a formality in the development of an existing friendship”).
While the name most likely doesn’t originate from the Netherlands (although I’m assured that they do go Dutch there), the concept of going Dutch is rather commonplace around continental Europe. In Germany, Sweden and Finland, paying for yourself is common practice. In fact, in Catalan they have their own term for it – “pago a la catalana”. But it has proved uniquely sticky in Britain, perhaps because it combines a number of our particular obsessions – money, sex and gender stereotypes. Any attempt to organise a fair deal for everyone leaves us confused and shocked.
I asked my ex about our first date – a 13-hour jaunt around the architecture festival Open House London before tapas and drinks. “We went Dutch and I didn’t resent it at all because I had an amazing time,” she says. “But my stance is generally that it’s not a lot to expect a guy to pick up the bill on a first date because usually there are more risks involved for women – and also a bigger investment in time and energy on our part.” It’s certainly a far cry from the insistence some of a slightly older generation may have that going Dutch is the only acceptable option when dating.
But in this era of Tinder and Uber, where a date could conceivably mean a two-hour round trip for sex, what actually is a date – and what is an acceptable amount to pay? The confusion has spawned its own weird tradition, that of the cheque dance, where both parties offer to pay parts of the bill. Or as the writer Emily Reynolds put it to me: “We try to balance proper gender politics with the fact that it’s very nice when you are being bought something.”
Another person tells me that the idea of going Dutch should be planted in the language used to secure the date. “Can I take you out some time?” or any variation thereof should mean the inviter pays, whereas the more casual “Do you want to grab something to eat?” opens things up to going splits.
Be wary of the location as well. If person A has more money than person B and takes them to a location out of their price bracket, a Dutch request is a little out of line.
Even if you have been invited on a date, you should be prepared to at least pay for your own drinks. Going on a financially extravagant date completely unprepared is silly.
Ultimately, asking to go Dutch on dates is fine, provided your intentions are clear before the bill comes.
First heard in Perth, Australia, in 2015, Mark-Anthony Turnage’s Håkan is a trumpet concerto, his second, written for Håkan Hardenberger, who gave its UK premiere with the London Symphony Orchestra; John Wilson conducted, replacing the indisposed Daniel Harding. A virtuoso work of some difficulty – Hardenberger told Turnage he thought the first draft too easy – it effectively consists of three genre pieces that never quite succeed in forming a coherent totality.
At its centre is a nocturnal Arietta of considerable beauty, in which the trumpet’s lyrical line hovers, poised and yearning, over shifting string chords and percussion splashes. Turnage’s inspiration dips a bit in the outer movements, however. The first, Falak, alludes to traditional Afghan music, as Hardenberger traces an angular, meandering recitative over string drones and percussive throbs, as the tempo gradually accelerates: the effect is exotic, reminiscent at times of Khachaturian. The closing Chorale Variations become increasingly eruptive as the trumpet phrases become ever more angry, florid and assertive. The solo writing is unremitting, and Hardenberger sounded pushed to his limits at times. Orchestrally, you couldn’t fault it.
After the interval came a magisterial, truly great performance of Rachmaninov’s Second Symphony, a work that Wilson seems to have in his system on this showing. Passion and excitement blended with lucidity. There wasn’t a trace of self-indulgence anywhere. The LSO were on exemplary form, the brass rich and noble, a warm sheen on the strings and woodwind playing of exceptional sincerity and elegance.
“Awards! They do nothing but give out awards!” – Alvy Singer in Los Angeles.
What normally wins the best picture Oscar can usually be divided between miserable and horrible. Most of the time a typical Academy voter comes off like one of those guys with saliva dribbling down his mouth who wanders into a cafeteria with a shopping bag screaming about socialism. Tuning in each year is irrational and crazy and absurd, but we keep going, I guess, because we need the eggs.
But on rare occasions they actually get it right, and the award for 1977’s top prize is the most striking example. (Don’t worry, they also gave gun nut Charlton Heston a “humanitarian prize” that year, so feel free to maintain your jaundiced view.)
Not only is Annie Hall the most experimental best picture win – it also features an entire section dedicated to viciously roasting the shallowness of awards show culture. Before Annie Hall, Woody Allen was a joke-scribbler and standup and talkshow guest who made small, oddball comedies that, while brilliant, were hardly known for rich character development. His previous film, Love and Death, dumped his classic neurotic New Yorker persona into a plot to assassinate Napoleon. (If you haven’t seen it, you really must.) After Annie Hall he emerged as the lovechild of Chaplin and Bergman and Buñuel by way of Philip Roth, and one of the greatest artists in the history of cinema. (That title still fits, by the way. Even the Amazon show that no one paid any attention to is really good.)
Annie Hall had some birthing pains. Allen and his co-writer, Marshall Brickman (yes, occasionally Woody Allen works with co-writers), developed the story from conversations and walks around New York City. An initial draft included subplots that were eventually dropped. (Never one to waste a good idea, Allen later turned one of Annie Hall’s “lost chapters” into Manhattan Murder Mystery.) New scenes were written during production (the house under the rollercoaster, such a key element explaining Alvy Singer’s personality, was stumbled upon and added in) and when they got to the editing room they had a film nearly an hour longer than what we now know.
The relationship between Allen’s Alvy and Diane Keaton’s Annie, it was soon realized, was the spine of this comic-philosophical cri de coeur, and the movie began to take shape in the cutting. The result is a time-jumping, fourth-wall-shattering spasm through the mind of a man in midlife crisis, sifting through the wreckage of a failed romance. Allen’s nonstop joke-telling (he is playing a comic, after all) allows for dips into surrealism, and the result is one of the fastest movies ever made.
From its opening joke (literally, the first line is: “There’s an old joke …”), the swift synaptic transitions move at supersonic speed. (Only Raising Arizona, Goodfellas and Wong Kar-Wei’s Fallen Angels open with such narrative zoom.) We bounce to Alvy’s childhood, which includes a tracking shot across a chalkboard that’s so riddled with jokes you don’t realize its Terence Davies-level beauty.
The first scene to plant its feet is the very rehearsed “stuck on a movie line” bit in which Alvy and Annie bicker as a pretentious intellectual pontificates loudly about TV, media and culture. It concludes with Alvy pulling Marshall McLuhan out from behind a large placard to tell this dolt he knows nothing of his work, fulfilling a fantasy for everyone who’s ever wanted the guy behind him to shut the hell up. It’s one of the only lengthy scenes in the movie and it’s done in one take.
The off-the-wall comedy allows for other experimental moments, such as subtitles reading the thoughts of Alvy and Annie flirting (“I sound like FM radio!”), split-screens, temporary transformation into a Disney cartoon or Woody Allen just wandering around West 4th Street breaking into psychoanalysis with whomever is passing by, including a horse. One of the more touching conversations, in which Annie first says “La-di-dah”, is a voiceover to a shaky-cam first-person shot of walking along a marsh at sunset. I shall go to my grave convinced that this was just a random exposure taken between set-ups because it looked nice, and only during the groundbreaking editing sessions did it end up in the movie at all.
This fleet-of-foot silliness (and, hot damn, the wall-to-wall brilliant zings) wouldn’t mean that much, though, if there weren’t a substantial story underneath. Annie Hall is among the quintessential portraits of sophisticated womanhood in what we now call second-wave feminism. Importantly, it is also a fair critique of would-be progressive men adjusting their attitudes, and not always coming off so well. (Alvy pushes Annie to take adult education courses right up until the point where she starts showing a little too much independence.)
For all the angst and psychological chit-chat (a wry stew of Freud and I’m OK – You’re OK) there’s an awful lot of heart on the screen. The romance feels real, and the fact that Woody Allen and Diane Keaton were once an item and then remained close friends certainly doesn’t hurt. What’s so revolutionary is how Annie Hall makes falling out of love seem so romantic. One watches in hopes of one day having such complex and incompatible entanglements.
There lingers a whiff of controversy about the 1977 win. There was, of course, a very good science fiction film that came out that year. But I’ll take Annie Hall over Close Encounters of the Third Kind any day, and besides it wasn’t nominated. What was nominated, however, was a zippy and highly entertaining fantasy film set in space called Star Wars, and it has had some lingering influence.
But Annie Hall’s legacy, I think, is just as strong. Star Wars, a great movie, aped the serials George Lucas grew up on and slapped them with a new coat of visual effects paint. Annie Hall’s style (we haven’t even talked about her outfits yet!) was truly created from scratch, and every would-be urban intellectual (especially the leftwing, communist, Jewish, homosexual pornographers in New York) have secretly been sizing up their day-to-day foibles against this masterpiece ever since.
Annie Hall is firmly rooted in late 1970s New York but its themes concerning human relationships are universal. To every couple facing up to their own dead shark, it seems like old times.
Jonwayne starts all his recent interviews with a request. “I’d much appreciate it if we focus on the music itself, rather than the personal story,” he says. “I think it’s actually a much better story, the actual making of the album.”
He is asking not to recount the night of 25 May 2014, when he nearly drank himself to death. The first time he told this story publicly was in a typewritten letter posted to Facebook in December. Its opening paragraph describes how he woke up with his throat burning, on a hotel bed covered in vomit. He then explains how he initially thought stepping away from music was the answer.
“In the process I alienated friends and allies,” he writes. “Opportunities and security slipped through my fingers. Bridges were burned. Momentum screeched to a halt. I was scared. All which I’ve spent my entire adult life building seemingly came crashing down on me.
“And in the silence of settled dust, the irony of my situation emerged through the fog and tapped my shoulder. It almost seemed tragic, the one thing I could turn to in the midst of all that: the music.”
In the version of events he tells on his new album, the one-time Stones Throw signee – he was barely in his 20s when founder Peanut Butter Wolf took notice – was on tour and in disbelief. “This is how I make my life, but how I almost died,” he raps on the track Blue Green.
Later this year, an interview series with journalist Max Bell will expand on the timeline of events leading up to Rap Album 2. “Not to say any of that is interesting or that it’s interesting enough for a book,” Jonwayne says, “but essentially we did it this way so I don’t necessarily have to talk about it again.” But for now, consider the title of his latest full-length – how matter-of-fact a mission statement it is. It dares you to ask why we’d want anything more of him.
This attitude toward his music isn’t new. Rap Album 2’s predecessor, 2013’s Rap Album 1, was recorded after two of Jonwayne’s grandparents died within a 48-hour time span the year before. As a result, he does remind himself of his mortality, though mostly to further justify taking an artisan’s approach to hip-hop: “I’m living every day like yesterday was my last/ This undead kid will live forever and then some/ Find me in the future, you can live in the past.” Masked rap villain MF Doom was an obvious influence when Jonwayne first began navigating LA’s underground music scene, both because of his deft lyricism and decision to be enigmatic.
“It’s like people feel the need to know the emcee as a person in order to get into the music, on some soap opera shit,” he said in 2011; back then, he was a frequent performer at Daddy Kev’s beat music epicenter Low End Theory. (The first label he ever signed to was Kev’s Alpha Pup, which is distributing Rap Album 2.)
Last summer Jonwayne released the song Wonka, where he mentions his departure from hip-hop label Stones Throw. “No, I’m not on Stones Throw, I thought you’d know that by now,” he crows. Never mind the role that the crate digger-friendly label played in his formative years, from when he first heard Quasimoto while playing Tony Hawk’s Underground on PlayStation. Until his interviews with Bell arrive, that line is all he has to say about his departure, including why he left or even whether he left on amicable terms. “I prefer not to talk about that,” he says. “I mean, I’m not offended by you asking. I’d just rather talk about the music.”
To be fair, this is for a good reason. A reference point for Rap Album 2 was Sun Kil Moon’s Benji, in which Mark Kozelek’s native Canton, Ohio, comes alive with each lyrical reference to restaurant franchises and relatives who died in freak accidents. Jonwayne’s latest isn’t as obsessive with detail, though it is his rawest work yet – proof of how an artist can sometimes best articulate himself through his art than he ever could in conversation.
He mentions his mother and nephew among the loved ones he abandoned for work – rap – because he thought he’d be better off left alone, a common refrain from anyone dealing with depression. The album comes alive each time he mentions his regrets, the sips of Jameson to combat his fear of flying while touring and times when he catches his own sobering reflection before his recovery. The one instance he tries to shift to default braggadocio mode (The Single), he leaves the booth cursing himself out.
Jonwayne spent nearly two years writing Rap Album 2. So many songs got scrapped in the process, though he kept on drafting because from day one, he knew the point – to relay “the angst or frustration we feel toward the rest of the world because we feel like we’re being misunderstood”.
“It was a very interesting exercise, when I sat down and said, ‘OK, I’m going to stick to this overarching narrative when I write these songs,’” he says. “A lot of the songs that I initially wrote weren’t very good, or they just felt incomplete or they felt forced because I was trying to stick with the narrative. But I stuck with it. And it forced me to become a better writer in terms of being able to manifest my imagination but still stick with a prompt or feeling. I always felt before that, I was sacrificing one for the other.”
One of the standout tracks on Rap Album 2 is Out of Sight. “And on the way I know I gave away some friends/ And every day I wish that we can speak again,” Jonwayne raps, his voice lilting, to a music box melody, “but every time I want to make it right, I freeze up/ in the visions of the shadows of my demons/ who went out of sight.” What motivated Jonwayne to become this vulnerable was this realization that his words can serve a greater purpose.
“The two things that are most important on the record are the feelings of apathy and loneliness – and at the same time, the angst or frustration we feel toward the rest of the world because we feel like we’re being misunderstood,” Jonwayne says. “I wanted to show the importance of friendship and how when we go through these things, we go inside ourselves instead of seeking out compassion within others because we feel like they’re doing a great job, or they’re fine, when in reality we’re all feeling that way.”
“Having those intentions,” he adds. “I think that it’s important that I be as vivid as possible.”
Rap Album 2 is out Friday on Authors Recording Co/The Order Label.
Manchester By the Sea, it must be said, is a tough sell. Its premise – man returns home to look after his dead brother’s son – doesn’t exactly scream good times. Its poster, full of muted blues and haunted expressions, further cements that suggestion. It’s written and directed by a man, Kenneth Lonergan, whose last film, Margaret, was a sprawling and hugely divisive work that wallowed in development hell for half a decade and then flopped badly when it eventually limped into cinemas. Even the many rave reviews afforded to the film sound like backhanded compliments, containing adjectives likely to make most cinemagoers run a mile: heartbreaking, raw, devastating.
And, in truth, Manchester By the Sea does conform to those descriptions. It is achingly raw and heartbreaking, and it will most likely devastate you. If that sounds like something you’d rather not experience, then it’s probably best to turn away now. But if you are able to stomach it, this film proves immensely rewarding.
Casey Affleck stars as Lee, a withdrawn handyman who reluctantly returns to his Massachusetts home town to take care of his nephew Patrick (Lucas Hedges), after the boy’s father (Kyle Chandler, seen only in flashback) dies suddenly. It’s a task fraught with jeopardy: not only does he have to deal with the challenges of caring for an emotionally raw teenage boy, but returning home means reckoning with the traumatic incident that forced him to leave in the first place. Even now, a month after release, it would be unfair to disclose the event that transformed Lee into the defeated figure he now is, but suffice it to say that when that truth is divulged, it explains his outlook with heartbreaking clarity. It’s a moment deserving of empathy, yet utterly unknowable.
Make no mistake, this is at times crushingly heavy subject matter. Yet Manchester By the Sea never feels maudlin or melodramatic. Lonergan constructs a jigsaw puzzle of a film, whose fragmented, elliptical flashbacks draw us into Lee’s world slowly and carefully. It means that the moments of emotion, when they come, act as controlled explosions, all the more affecting for their economy.
Remarkably, given the subject matter, Manchester By the Sea is frequently funny. It’s funny in the way that real life is funny, not with a series of sculpted one-liners, but with sideways looks and coughs and interruptions and all the strange ways real people make each other laugh. Many of its biggest laughs are entirely wordless, tiny gestures, nods and looks between Lee and Patrick that convey more than an artful bon mot ever could. Their relationship contributes to a world that feels authentic and lived-in.
Affleck's performance is notable for what it doesn’t do: there’s no wailing or lamentation​. Everything is internalised
At the centre of this world is Affleck. His performance is notable for what it doesn’t do: there’s no wailing or lamentation, no grand, revealing monologues. Instead, everything is internalised and in miniature. Lee’s grief, rage and self-loathing are so acute that all he can do is swallow them back down, subdue them. Only once does it bubble to the surface, in a chance meeting with his ex-wife (Michelle Williams, making the most of her limited screen time) that shifts from cordial to traumatic. It’s a horribly watchable moment, but Affleck never oversells it. As with the rest of the film, it’s a remarkably restrained performance.
Whether it’s a performance that deserves to be rewarded at the Oscars, given what has been alleged about Affleck’s past behaviour, has been subject to much debate. Around the time of Manchester By the Sea’s release details of two lawsuits filed against Affleck in 2010 by women working on I’m Still Here resurfaced, accusing him of sexual harassment and verbal abuse. The suits were settled out of court, though that hasn’t prevented people comparing it to the controversy that torpedoed Nate Parker’s The Birth of a Nation.
It is worth noting that the circumstances of Parker and Affleck’s alleged improprieties are significantly different (David Sims of the Atlantic explains why very well here), but both raise the thorny issue of whether we should separate art from the artist. Should Affleck’s alleged actions discount Manchester By the Sea from the prize circuit? By rewarding the work are we tacitly excusing his behaviour? These are knotty questions unlikely to offer easy, straightforward answers.
That seems strangely in keeping with Manchester By the Sea, a film that resists tidy resolutions or simplistic life lessons. Instead, it offers up life as it truly is: messy, maddening, full of regrets and words left unsaid. At a time when escapism seems like the default mode, it refuses to look away. For that reason, and so many others, it would be a deserving best picture winner.
A host of star names – including JK Rowling, Frank Cottrell Boyce, Chris Riddell and Philip Reeve – are ranged against virtual unknowns on the longlists for the UK’s oldest and most prestigious children’s book awards. However, the Carnegie choices immediately provoked anger in some quarters that not one of the BAME authors nominated has been included.
The 20 books on the longlist for the 80-year-old CILIP Carnegie medal include Mal Peet’s final novel, Beck, which was published posthumously after friend and fellow novelist Meg Rosoff completed it, while children’s laureate Riddell is longlisted for the Kate Greenaway medal, now in its 60th year, for his illustrated books.
Announcing the longlists, chair of judges Tricia Adams said it was the strongest year for nominations she could remember, in part because many of the books tackled issues that, in previous generations, would not have been addressed in children’s literature.
“Themes that emerged this year were refugees, sexuality, transgender issues and depression – some quite difficult concepts for children to talk about,” Adams said. Though sexuality did not appear in titles aimed at the youngest readers or in the 20 books longlisted for the Kate Greenaway medal, depression was tackled, with emphasis on how it affects children of depressed parents. Adams added: “It must be horrendous for children to face that, but books really do provide a refuge and a safe place for them to explore almost everything.”
Rosoff said Peet, who died in 2015, would have greeted news that his final novel was longlisted by saying: “Excellent news, darling, excellent news!”
Rosoff took over the book when Peet told her of his diagnosis with terminal cancer. “He’d done a good deal of the hard stuff – the plot, the research, the basic shape of the story and a lot of the writing,” she said. “I came in and made the arc work, filled out the characters – and toned down a few of the sex scenes.”
Should Beck win, it will not be the first posthumous novel to take the Carnegie: Siobhan Dowd took that honour in 2009, with Bog Child. Dowd had finished the novel in May 2007, two months before she died of cancer.
Other books in contention for the Carnegie, which is nominated by librarians, are Philip Reeve’s epic fantasy Railhead, set in a whimsical future world in which sentient trains crisscross the universe; Zania Fraillon’s acclaimed novel about refugees, The Bone Sparrow, which was shortlisted last year for the Guardian children’s fiction prize; and Frank Cottrell Boyce’s Sputnik’s Guide to Life on Earth. Describing the Carnegie as the gold standard for children’s book prizes, Cottrell Boyce said he was elated to be on the longlist. “Librarians really know what they’re about,” he said.
But others were much less happy with this year’s Carnegie longlist, which is entirely white. (The prize itself has never been won by a BAME author.) Alex Wheatle, who was longlisted for the Carnegie and won the Guardian children’s fiction prize in 2016, said he had instructed his publishers to not submit his next book for the 2018 prize: “[My publishers] were as appalled as I am and I would urge other black writers of YA children’s to do the same until they think about this situation.”
“You are telling me there is no Malorie Blackman, no Patrice Lawrence, no Kiran Millwood Hargrave?” he said, naming three BAME writers who were nominated but not longlisted for the Carnegie this year. “It’s been an incredibly strong year for BAME writers of children’s and YA books. It’s appalling … it feels like there is an agenda. Why not include Patrice? Why not Malorie? This has been the strongest year in my memory for BAME YA novels, it just beggars belief.”
Novelist Catherine Johnson, who was longlisted in 2015 and 2016, said she was not surprised. “Most of the big awards and literature festivals are always white, with - if we’re lucky - one ‘other’.”
In a rare double, writer and illustrator Brian Selznick’s The Marvels made it on to the longlists for both awards. Illustrator Jim Kay’s work resulted in an unexpected listing for JK Rowling, with Kay’s illustrations for a new edition of Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone putting it on the Kate Greenaway longlist 20 years after the book won the Carnegie prize in 1997.
Children’s laureate Chris Riddell made the Kate Greenaway longlist for his illustrations in Michael Rosen’s book A Great Big Cuddle – if he wins, it will be for a record fourth time. Fellow previous winners up in contention again include Emily Gravett, who wrote and illustrated Tidy; Levi Pinfold, writer and illustrator of Greenling; and William Grill, for The Wolves of Currumpaw. These veterans are joined by several debuts – notably Francesca Sanna’s the Journey, which is based on her experiences of working with refugees in southern Italy and Switzerland.
The winners of the awards will receive £5,000 each, plus £500 of books to donate to their local library and a specially commissioned gold medal. The shortlists will be announced on 16 March, with the winners announced on 19 June at a dinner in London.
Aubrey and the Terrible Yoot by Horatio Clare (Firefly Press)Sputnik’s Guide to Life on Earth by Frank Cottrell Boyce (Pan Macmillan)Unbecoming by Jenny Downham (David Fickling Books)The Bone Sparrow by Zana Fraillon (Orion Children’s Books)How Not to Disappear by Clare Furniss (Simon & Schuster)The Smell of Other People’s Houses by Bonnie-Sue Hitchcock (Faber & Faber)Whisper to Me by Nick Lake (Bloomsbury)Beetle Boy by MG Leonard (Chicken House)The Stars at Oktober Bend by Glenda Millard (Old Barn Books)Pax by Sara Pennypacker (HarperCollins)Railhead by Philip Reeve (Oxford University Press)Beck by Mal Peet with Meg Rosoff (Walker Books)Orbiting Jupiter by Gary D Schmidt (Andersen Press)The Marvels by Brian Selznick (Scholastic)Salt to the Sea by Ruta Sepetys (Puffin)Island by Nicky Singer (Caboodle Books)Dreaming the Bear by Mimi Thebo (Oxford University Press)Time Travelling with a Hamster by Ross Welford (HarperCollins)Wolf Hollow by Lauren Wolk (Corgi)The Serpent King by Jeff Zentner (Andersen Press)
Alpha illustrated by Barroux, written by Bessora, translated by Sarah Ardizzone (The Bucket List)Return illustrated and written by Aaron Becker (Walker Books)Wild Animals of the North illustrated and written by Dieter Braun (Flying Eye Books)Bob the Artist illustrated and written by Marion Deuchars (Laurence King Publishing)The Lion Inside illustrated by Jim Field, written by Rachel Bright (Orchard Books)Perfect illustrated by Cathy Fisher, written by Nicola Davies (Graffeg)Tidy illustrated and written by Emily Gravett (Pan Macmillan)The Wolves of Currumpaw illustrated and written by William Grill (Flying Eye Books)Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone illustrated by Jim Kay, written by J.K. Rowling (Bloomsbury)The Whale illustrated by Ethan Murrow, written by Vita Murrow (Templar)Greenling illustrated and written by Levi Pinfold (Templar)A Great Big Cuddle illustrated by Chris Riddell and written by Michael Rosen (Walker Books)A Beginner’s Guide to Bear Spotting illustrated by David Roberts, written by Michelle Robinson (Bloomsbury)The Journey illustrated and written by Francesca Sanna (Flying Eye Books)The Marvels illustrated and written by Brian Selznick (Scholastic)There is a Tribe of Kids illustrated and written by Lane Smith (Two Hoots)Rain illustrated and written by Sam Usher (Templar)Counting Lions illustrated by Stephen Walton and written by Virginia McKenna and Katie Cotton (Frances Lincoln Children’s Books)Little One illustrated and written by Johanna Weaver (Hodder Children’s Books)The Great Fire of London illustrated by James Weston Lewis, written by Emma Adams (Wayland Books)
Jonathan Lethem’s latest novel, The Blot, is a story about – well, I’m not entirely sure. Better perhaps to say that The Blot takes backgammon as its subject matter. Alexander Bruno, Lethem’s detached and disaffected antihero, has spent his life as a professional gambler: shuttling around the globe from one blandly luxurious venue to the next; offering rich men the revitalising thrill of being parted from their money. He is a board game prodigy, a scalp hunter in an impeccable tuxedo, and he’s invariably victorious – until an encounter in Singapore leaves him on the back foot
It’s here that we meet him, on his way to the Berlin mansion of a wealthy German developer whom he needs to fleece in order to recoup his losses. On the ferry across the Wannsee lake, however, he suddenly becomes aware that there is a hole at the centre of his vision, a “vacancy now deforming his view of the receding shore”. In backgammon, “an unprotected checker, sitting singly on a point” is “called a blot”. Bruno, a gambler to the last, gives the same name to his burgeoning blind spot.
So far, so engaging – and, for a while at least, things only get better. Instead of heading straight to a hospital, Bruno – on his uppers and in need of cash – swallows some paracetamol and proceeds to his game. The encounter Lethem depicts in the German’s ostentatiously costly study, “insulated with leather volumes, plush furniture, oak panelling, all burnished in age and redolent of cigar”, is one of the finest standalone scenes I’ve read in some time. The dry technical detail of checkers and points is balanced and backlit by a setting that grows steadily more overwrought and hallucinatory. At first Bruno wins easily, but as the evening extends and his opponent layers on the scotch and heat and shrieking, cackling jazz, his grip begins to slide.
The entry into the room of a masked woman, naked from the waist down and carrying “a silver tray heaped with tiny sandwiches”, tips the whole event into the realm of nightmare. Struggling to bring things back on track, Bruno collapses into a seizure instead, and comes to in a whitely lit, impersonal hospital, where he is told that the cavity he can see has been invaded by a slow-growing, crablike tumour. Only one surgeon in the world, he learns, would consider operating on such a growth in such a location. That surgeon is based in Berkeley, California, which just happens to be Bruno’s hometown: the place “where he least wished to return”.
But return he must. Salvation appears – or seems to appear – in the overstuffed, greasy-haired form of Keith Stolarsky: an old school friend turned Berkeley businessman, whom Bruno met again in Singapore at the point when his winning streak ran out. Stolarsky’s insistence on paying for Bruno’s plane ticket and hospital bills, coupled with the uneasy falsity of their relationship, deepens the sense of an impending settlement; of a debt from his past that will soon be collected. For the reader, all of this is deeply satisfying: the counters, it seems, are neatly deployed, the board set for a reckoning.
Sentence for sentence, few writers can compete with Lethem for fluency and panache
But where the first half of the novel is a lean and focused construction, a game with a clear trajectory, the second spirals into chaos. The scene of Bruno’s operation – shown through the eyes of his brilliant but maverick surgeon – is another superb set piece. But it also marks the point at which, having spent the opening chapters carefully building his position, Lethem appears to lose his grip. As Bruno wanders the streets of Berkeley in a surgical mask, flipping burgers under “brash, flat sunlight” by day and consorting with Berkeley’s depleted and cynical counter-culture by night, the narrative is curiously directionless: a mishmash of extended metaphors (games; dice; masks) and false leads. So many seeds are scattered: the possibility that Bruno may be telepathic; his inexplicable and almost entirely unexplored relationship with the German dominatrix from the opening scene; his equally inexplicable and unexplored relationship with Stolarsky’s girlfriend who, like Stolarsky himself, may or may not be aiding Bruno’s recovery to further her own opaque ends; a generalised critique of globalisation and its discontents. It abruptly becomes clear, two-thirds of the way through, that there is no way in which Lethem will be able to draw these themes together into any sort of satisfactory conclusion. Ultimately, he doesn’t even try, and the novel ends on a dying fall.
Undeniably, there is much to admire here: the author’s ability to bend genre; the depth of his knowledge of his chosen subjects (backgammon; brain surgery) and the breadth of his pop culture references. Sentence for sentence, few writers can compete with Lethem for fluency and panache. But style only carries you so far; I put the book down feeling as if I still hadn’t found the substance. The Blot is a high-stakes gamble. In the end, it doesn’t pay off.
• The Blot by Jonathan Lethem (Jonathan Cape, £16.99). To order a copy for £14.24, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.
Here is this week’s playlist – songs picked by a reader from your suggestions after last week’s callout. Thanks for taking part. Read more about how our weekly Readers Recommend series works at the end of the piece.
What a lovely day for a stroll! Come with me, children, as we set off with a light tread and a twinkling heart, humming a cheery tune, for we’re heading for a Walk in the Black Forest (beginning with Horst Jankowski).
What could possibly go wrong? We can just walk or, if you fancy, play Robin Hood (with Dick James’s theme to the 1950s TV show) like we used to do when we were kids, or we can pretend to be Bold Sir Rylas (as in Spiers and Boden’s modern interpretation)? That would be fun.
Our spirits lift as we follow the track into the forest’s depths. Is that a Cukoo we hear, as the Wind and Leaves rustle our cares away? How spiritual the green woods are, we can feel nature’s call and we achieve a Oneness with the Forest (Bobby Brown).
Let us pause in A Glade Somewhere in the Forest. Have a sandwich, why don’t you? We have meat paste and sardine and, for the vegetarians, lettuce and quinoa with an organic, sun-dried mistletoe chutney. We’ll settle on a mossy bank and drift into a contented slumber and can almost imagine Bo Diddley’s Babes in the Wood cavorting among the verdure.
Something’s not right though; the air is somewhat heavy and scented with damp from soil rich in organic matter. It feels a bit odd, as if we are being observed by unseen eyes. Perhaps it’s time to leave.
We make it to the River (also King Trigger’s 1992 one-hit wonder) and our dugout canoe – the quickest way out, hopefully, that will allow us to avoid the hazards that the ever darker, more claustrophobic woods can throw at us. The trees seem to crowd in as we paddle. The gloaming has become the “glooming”. This Enchanted Forest (Mohawk and the Rednecks) isn’t so appealing any more, it’s more like Dirty Filthy Mud’s disturbing Forest of Black.
It’s dark and it’s getting colder as the trees shade out the sunlight. The wind has changed from a light zephyr to a howling, screaming gale. There’s something going on here, Deep in the Woods (the Birthday Party). Shadowy forms, weird lights ... a ceremony of some kind ... there’s some strange men here. They are misshapen, leathery, weathered people of the woods, they are not like us ... But wait! That’s no human, that’s the friendly face of a kindly forest spirit that has come to show us the way home! He’s been waiting for us right here, under Joe Hisaishi’s Huge Tree in the Tsukamori Forest (Tsukamori no Taiju, from My Neighbour Totoro). We’re safe and heading back for a cozy evening by the fire. What an adventure.
1. Horst Jankowski: A Walk in the Black Forest2. Dick James: Robin Hood3. Spiers and Boden: Bold Sir Rylas4. Cukoo: Wind and Leaves5. Bobby Brown: Oneness with the Forest6. Forest: A Glade Somewhere7. Bo Diddley: Babes in the Woods8. King Trigger: The River9. Mohawk and the Rednecks: Enchanted Forest10. Dirty Filthy Mud: Forest of Black11. The Birthday Party: Deep in the Woods12. Joe Hisaishi: The Huge Tree in the Tsukamori Forest (Tsukamori no Taiju)
Not all songs appear on the Spotify playlist as some are unavailable on the service.
The new theme will be announced at 8pm (GMT) on Thursday 16 February. You have until 11pm on Monday 20 February to submit nominations.
Here’s a reminder of some of the guidelines for RR:
Fleetwood Mac have spent the past few years reissuing their peerless back catalogue in the obligatory remastered, expanded, deluxe editions. Last year brought us the 1982 album Mirage, which somehow managed to make an album already slathered in cocaine sound even more cokey, all sheen and shine.
Next up is Tango in the Night, coming out on Warner on 10 March, and we’ve got this early, unreleased version of the Stevie Nicks track Seven Wonders for you. It’s longer but also a little harsher than the album version, drawing out the fatalism of the chorus and de-emphasising the keyboard hook.
Tango in the Night came out five years after Mirage, and had originally been planned as a Lindsey Buckingham solo record – Nicks spent only two weeks in the studio with the band because she was concentrating on her solo career. Be thankful that it became a full-band record, because the album became defined not by his songs but by the contributions of the other writers; without the two singles from Christine McVie – Everywhere and Little Lies – it would be a very different record. While many Mac fans might have their favourite writer in the group, it takes all three of Buckingham, Nicks and McVie to balance the group. It was noticeable how different the shows with McVie back in the band were to those when the group was performing only the Buckingham and Nicks songs; it was if her songs were the bridge between Nicks’s airy proto-gothiness and Buckingham’s barely suppressed rage.
That balance is what makes Tango in the Night so great. For all that the music is of a piece – sophisticated, slick, without ever being over-complicated – it manages to shift through moods effortlessly. Buckingham is on edge throughout and has explained that Big Love, his single from the album, gets misinterpreted: when he sings that he is “looking out for love”, he doesn’t mean he is looking for love, he is putting himself on guard for it. In the title track, he’s restless, discomfited (“Try to sleep, sleep won’t come”); Caroline upbraids a woman who is crazy and lazy; Family Man seems to be a hymn to domestic stability, but even then he can’t help observing that “the road gets tough”.
McVie’s songs appear much more straightforward. Everywhere is a simple, gorgeous statement of love; Little Lies its counterpart, the realisation that the feelings of Everywhere depend on self-deception. Nicks’s are neither straightforward, nor angry: Welcome to the Room … Sara was written after treatment at the Betty Ford clinic, and uncertainty echoes throughout her contributions (“If I see you again / Will it be the same?” she asks on When I See You Again. “If I see you again / Will it be over?”), and Seven Wonders exemplifies that, with Nicks confronting the notion that even living to see the seven wonders will never match what she has lost.
Have a listen.
The Human Be-In rally that touched off the Summer of Love in San Francisco’s Golden Gate Park on 14 January 1967 may have been a psychedelic, hippy-dippy, drug-addled, free-love, damn-the-man love-fest, but it did have one thing going for it: a permit.
Fifty years later, San Franciscans can order delivery of a joint with an app and marry a same-sex partner at city hall, but bureaucratic approval for a concert celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Summer of Love is out of reach.
On 7 February, the San Francisco recreation and parks department denied a permit to the anniversary concert in a harsh letter to concert organizer Boots Hughston, citing his “numerous ‘misrepresentations of material fact’” in his dealings with the department.
“The Summer of Love was an incredible moment in our city’s history and its message of peace and love is more important than ever,” the department wrote, citing concerns over safety before adding: “We cannot put the public at risk and grant a permit for your proposed event.”
The whole generation woke up and realized that there was more to life than just working every day
The denial is a major setback for Hughston, who had been planning to host a free day-long concert featuring, among others, Eric Burdon and War, Country Joe McDonald, and the remaining members of Jefferson Airplane. Hughston, who previously organized a 40th anniversary Summer of Love concert, had hoped to secure an appearance by the Dalai Lama to this year’s celebration but, he said, “his holiness was booked in LA”.
“The whole thing about the 50th anniversary is that we are marking our generation and what our generation accomplished,” Hughston said. “We impeached presidents. We started all these movements: the environmental movement, the free speech movement, the feminist movement.”
“It’s because the whole generation woke up and realized that there was more to life than just working everyday and spending your whole life sitting at a desk,” he added.
Visitors to San Francisco throughout 2017 will have no dearth of events at which to wear flowers in their hair. Museums around the Bay Area will host Summer of Love-themed exhibits, and annual street festivals will probably see a boost in flower-power accessories. One tour company will even take visitors around town in an authentic Volkswagen “love bus” complete with beaded curtains, shag carpet, and neon blue seats.
Hughston blamed the city for “dragging its feet” throughout the permit process, which he said he had been working on for nine months. He also accused the city of favoring large, corporate events that can pay millions of dollars in fees.
He plans to appeal against the permit denial at a hearing on Thursday. More than 1,300 people have signed an online petition asking the mayor to allow the concert to go forward.
Hughston did take some comfort from the fact that it took the original Human Be-In two attempts to get a permit as well. After being denied on his first attempt, organizer Michael Bowen asked his friend Melvin Belli for help. In 2004 Bowen told the the San Francisco Bay Guardian how Belli, a famous attorney, “sent his secretary downtown and asked and received in five minutes a permit for his birthday party at the Polo Field. Jan 14 was not even his birthday.”
Representatives of the city and the mayor’s office did not immediately respond to queries from the Guardian.
Hearkening back to the Summer of Love may seem incongruous to American’s experiencing a Trump-induced winter of discontent. But to Hughston, young people in 2017 can learn lessons from the hippies of the 60s.
“You have power in your own individual thinking,” he said. “If you say to yourself, ‘I’m not going to eat that GMO food and I’m not going to put up with Donald Trump,’ you can do it.”
Hughston also advised that young people seek out the spirit of the Summer of Love at events like Burning Man.
Country Joe McDonald, who was part of the Summer of Love scene and played Woodstock with Country Joe and the Fish, had a more modest view of the anniversary.
“To me, it’s not really important to mark the anniversary of the Summer of Love, but I like to play free music in the park,” he said. McDonald will play at the anniversary concert, if it is allowed to go forward.
But he said he was unsure whether the celebrating the Summer of Love five decades later has much relevance.
“It is the past,” he said. “It holds meaning to people who are old.”
Kesha has released a series of emails sent to her manager, in which her producer Dr Luke insists “A-list songwriters and producers are reluctant to give Kesha their songs because of her weight”.
The release of the emails is intended to back up her claim that she should be released from her contract with Dr Luke, after her case to have the contract terminated following allegations of sexual abuse was dismissed by a New York judge last April. The emails are intended to back up her assertion that the producer psychologically abused her.
Kesha wants to “be free from her abuser and rebuild her physical, emotional, and mental health”, according to court papers filed this week and seen by the New York Post.
In the emails to Kesha’s manager, Monica Cornia, Dr Luke – real name Lukasz Gottwald – wrote: “We were having a discussion on how she can be more disciplined with her diet. there have been many times we have all witnessed her breaking her diet plan. this perticular [sic] time – it happened to be diet coke and turkey while on an all-juice fast.”
The emails also show Cornia reporting a fight over lyrics for Kesha’s single Crazy Kids, in which Cornia says Dr Luke dismissed Kesha’s request to change the words by saying: “I don’t give a shit what you want. If you were smart you would go in and sing.”
Dr Luke’s lawyer, Christine Lepera, reacted to the release of the emails with a statement to Rolling Stone magazine that read: “Kesha and her attorneys continue to mislead by refusing to disclose the larger record of evidence, showing the bad faith of Kesha Sebert and her representatives, which is greatly damaging to them. It also shows the tremendous support that Dr Luke provided Kesha regarding artistic and personal issues, including Kesha’s own concerns over her weight.
“Rather than agree to a thorough disclosure, Kesha and her representatives improperly publicised, without court permission, three out-of-context emails which do not present the full picture regarding the events they concern. For example, these emails do not show that the lyrics of Crazy Kids were, in fact, rewritten at Kesha’s request. Any claim by Kesha to the contrary is deceiving the public – just like her other meritless claims of wrongdoing by Dr Luke. Dr Luke looks forward to full vindication in court.”
After seeing a photo of him, Zadie Smith imagined Ahmed Naji as someone wild and antic. (“Rather handsome, slightly louche-looking, with a Burt Reynolds moustache, wearing a Nehru shirt in a dandyish print and the half smile of someone both amusing and easily amused” she observed in the New York Review of Books – without having met him.) Just a short extract of his prose allegedly gave one reader heart palpitations, and, for one judge, his language – “pussy, cock, licking, sucking”, according to court documents – was enough to justify a two-year jail sentence.
It’s hard to equate these intense, fleeting impressions with the quietly spoken man in front of me sipping green tea.
Naji is best known internationally for being imprisoned for the sexual content and drug references in his novel The Use of Life, in a society where these subjects remain largely taboo.
However, sitting in his apartment close to the Nile in central Cairo, Naji plays down the image he has acquired as a result of his plight, and the themes that got him into trouble.
A blend of existentialist literature, fantasy and social criticism, The Use of Life follows Bassam, a young man who lives in an alternate Cairo, which Naji imagines as a grubby metropolis that has risen from a series of natural disasters that levelled the city. Filled with irreverent references to masturbation, fetishes and pornography, the book is consistently transgressive. Bassam’s opinions and ideas are also knowingly progressive – having sex with an older woman, keeping transgender friends, indulging in drugs and drink.
“Sex and drugs play a very important part in Cairo,” says Naji – while stressing that they are not the main themes of his novel. As he sees it, The Use of Life is about “the history of the city and how it has been designed … and how people in this Kafkaesque maze are trying to find a small piece of joy”.
The 31-year-old author first ran into legal trouble in 2015, when a chapter of The Use of Life was published in the state-run literary magazine Akhbar al-Adab. A male complainant, who said the passage came to his attention only when his wife ridiculed him for allowing such material into their house, alleged that reading Naji’s descriptions of sex and hashish-smoking gave him “heart palpitations, sickness and a drop in blood pressure”.
In January 2016, Naji was acquitted by an Egyptian court. But a month later, a higher court fined him £1,000 and sentenced him to two years in jail – the maximum sentence – for violating public morality, as enshrined in Egypt’s penal code. (The editor of Akhbar al-Adab was fined £430 for publishing the chapter.)
Naji’s lawyer, Mahmoud Othman, describes the chaotic legal process leading up to the sentencing as unprecedented.
“There was not enough discussion or attention paid to what we said in defence and the court refused to listen to a witness who is the head of Egypt’s general book institution,” he says. “They issued the verdict quickly, in less than an hour, without the announcement even being made in court – we found out the verdict from a security source.” Naji was the writer in Egypt to be jailed over a novel extract published in a newspaper.
Finally, after more than 300 days behind bars, Naji was released on appeal on 22 December. Now out, he is reluctant to say much about his time in jail, apart from revealing that it had affected his health and that one of his cellmates was the prominent revolutionary Alaa Abd El Fattah, with whom he discussed literature. “Jail is jail,” he says, quietly.
He does, however, take solace from being the latest in an international line of literary outlaws. “Joyce had something related to the same problem, because he’s using dirty words and it seems like it was a huge battle in the 1930s and 40s. And in the US, for example, when you read Kerouac and Ginsberg,” he says. “It’s about words that people are using in the street which suddenly have another meaning when people use them in literature. How can I know about all this and not use it in my writing?”
Naji is not the only Egyptian writer to go to jail, but he is the first to be imprisoned for reasons of morality. Others have been put behind bars for political or religious reasons, among them the novelist and short-story writer Sonallah Ibrahim, a member of the “60s generation” who was jailed between 1959 and 1964 during a crackdown on dissent by the nationalist president Gamal Abdel-Nasser.
Ibrahim was one of Naji’s most vocal domestic supporters, even appearing in court for his defence. He was one of more than 600 Egyptian and Arab writers, artists and authors to sign a statement calling for his release. As Naji’s case gained attention, his defenders were backed by international cultural figures including Woody Allen and Patti Smith as well as authors Dave Eggers, Philip Roth and Zadie Smith.
Naji seems unfazed by his new-found fame, but says he read an Arabic translation of Smith’s novel On Beauty in jail before he knew about her support for his release.
“It was a sign for me to believe in my literature more,” he says. “Before jail, I used to see myself mostly as a journalist and found it more difficult to be motivated. Now that is easier and has become a habit. I write fiction for two hours every day.”
This week, a leading Egyptian publisher took the risk of publishing a new collection of short stories by Naji. Mohamed Hashem, owner of Merit publishing house, is a patriarchal figure on Egypt’s literary scene and is no stranger to run-ins with the authorities.
He says that he decided to publish the stories because “I believe in the freedom of expression, freedom of thought and belief, as well as freedom of literary creativity. There shouldn’t be any kinds of restraints on the mind.”
He points out that though Naji’s language might seem bold, it is no more transgressive than that of One Thousand and One Nights.
“If you open [that] or other books from the Arabic-Islamic heritage, you will find an explicit language magnified by thousands of times more than in The Use of Life. And those authors were not called heathens or judged by anyone,” Hashem says.
Naji, meanwhile, reveals that while in jail he secretly started writing another novel, now about a quarter complete. He won’t divulge what it’s about, but another book that he read in jail, passed on to him by his friend Abd El Fattah, might give a clue. “I’ve just discovered an amazing writer,” he says. “China Miéville.”
He is due to appear in court again in April and is aware that he could go back to jail. If he is acquitted, he says, he plans to move to either Washington DC or Hong Kong at the end of the year.
After everything, Naji downplays suggestions that his sentencing was for political reasons. “I don’t think so. Of course, I heard some conspiracies and a lot of rumours but we didn’t have any evidence to support it,” he says. Some members of parliament even attended his trial and tried to change the law - frustratingly, it was unsuccessful (“The Egyptian political scene is complicated,” Naji says).
“I’m not a writer with a message,” he insists. “I’m more of a writer with questions. I’m not what they call in Egypt an enlightened writer or thinker.”
Mel Gibson may make a late move into superhero movies by directing the forthcoming sequel to Suicide Squad. Gibson, 61, is currently riding high after his commercial and critical hit, Hacksaw Ridge, was nominated for six Oscars.
Warner Bros are said to be in talks with Gibson to take over from David Ayer, who directed the first film, which met with mixed notices but took $746m worldwide. It starred Will Smith, Margot Robbie and Jared Leto as a ragtag bunch of baddies forced into the government’s service.
Since the film’s release, Ayer has expressed sceptcism about some elements of his film, but stayed within the DC stable for his next project, Gotham City Sirens, which reunites him with Robbie and concentrates on DC’s female villains.
The Hollywood Reporter quotes sources who say Gibson is familiarising himself with the material, and that the studio is also casting around for other film-makers. The name Daniel Espinosa has been mentioned; the Child 44 director took over from Bryon Howard on forthcoming big-budget sci-fi film Life, starring Jake Gyllenhaal and Ryan Reynolds.
Gibson’s renaissance after years in the industry doghouse was cemented by the news he’s joining Will Ferrell and Mark Wahlberg for the Daddy’s Home sequel, as well as collaborating with Vince Vaughn on a crime thriller about police corruption.
Gossiping, chain smoking and preaching the word of the Lord: Dot Branning (formerly Cotton) is Albert Square’s self-appointed conscience. And as June Brown turns 90, she remains the backbone of the soap that made her famous 32 years ago. Her character has survived everything EastEnders has thrown at her, including endless shifts in the launderette, the death of her beloved son Nick and kidney cancer. Scandals keep on spinning around her, and while her eyesight is failing her strength, humour and (sometimes unwanted) advice never does.
Any soap conversation that starts with “I ain’t one to gossip” is a juicy one – especially when those words are uttered by Dot. She’s judgmental to all, a confidante to those in trouble and a friend to the younger generation. In a time when teenagers drink cocktails out of jam jars and mourners brandish glowsticks at funerals, Dot remains reassuringly serene, upstanding and an unwavering beacon of traditional – often controversial – values.
Brown was 58 when Dot first appeared in Walford and she set out her stall early as a hypochondriac who always seemed to have “one of her heads coming on”. When teenage Michelle Fowler became pregnant, Dot wasted no time voicing her concerns about the moral decay going on around her. Not that she was squeaky clean. Her first husband, Charlie, was a conman and an adulterer. Other than God, the biggest love of her life was her son, uber-villain Nasty Nick. Their relationship was beautifully played each time the scheming heroin addict turned up with a gravelly “Hello Maaaa.” He was evil enough to try to poison her with a candlelit dinner so he could steal all her cash, but Dot loved him fiercely until his final, fatal dose. She decided not to call an ambulance and was sentenced to 14 months for manslaughter.
By her own admission, Dot is a “miserable old bag, quoting from the Bible”. When her old friend Colin turned up to invite her to his wedding, she declined with a refusal to condone gay marriage. Back in the 80s, she unleashed a shocking homophobic rant against him and his boyfriend Barry. “I couldn’t clean your flat because that would be tantamount to condoning it,” she said. “Not to mention that the pair of you might well have Aids.” But when her friend Ethel wanted to end her life, Dot parked her Christian beliefs to help her.
Although her life hasn’t been easy, Dot’s eyes had a special twinkle during her relationship with gargoyle-faced lothario Jim Branning, who proposed on the London Eye. She was coquettish and sexy in fur on her wedding day. Like Coronation Street’s Jack and Vera Duckworth, Dot and Jim’s relationship thrived on constant bickering, but her love was tested when her husband had a stroke. Brown’s famous “one-hander” episode saw her recording a message for Jim, telling him why she couldn’t care for him. “I ain’t got no strength left … I’m better on me own, where I’ve always been,” she said. The reflective scene earned her a Bafta nomination. It summed up a life of loss and disappointment from a woman who couldn’t take any more.
Today, Dot is going blind and has lost her job in the launderette, but she hasn’t lost her touch. She’s never more alive than at a funeral, which gives her a chance to bring out her best clothes and red lippy, coiff that quiff and offer support to others. Apart from her health problems, which have always been there, her character is ageless. She can dish out advice to youngsters and likes to surround herself with their energy. The late Fatboy lodged with her and broadened her mind, not least when he opened her eyes to the phrase “sket”. “What, you mean like Pat Butcher in the 80s?” she retorted.
It’s rare to see such a strong but beleaguered soap character survive to old age and, with Lou Beale, Ethel Skinner and Peggy Mitchell all gone, Dot is the last matriarch standing. Long may she gossip.
Few genres have fallen from grace quite as fast as the real-time strategy (RTS). It’s now nearly a decade since Starcraft, Command & Conquer and Age of Empires regularly duked it out at the top of the charts. Today, two of those mighty names are no more and even 2009’s Halo Wars, which tried to re-think the whole experience from the ground up, proved to be developer Ensemble Studios’ final game. So all credit to Microsoft for having another go at taking its most treasured IP in this most difficult of directions.
Luckily, Halo Wars 2 arrives with plenty of shock and awe in its arsenal – not just a rollicking 13-level campaign but a flurry of multiplayer modes and a whole new game type called Blitz. Development duties have switched to strategy specialist Creative Assembly (the Total War series) and Halo specialist 343 Industries, but otherwise this is instantly familiar stuff to fans of the original.
The plot sees the battlecruiser Spirit of Fire, emerging from a 28-year cryosleep and confronted by a new Covenant faction; the Banished and their brutish leader, Atriox. Although the game takes place shortly after the events of Halo 5, the early feel is much more like Battlestar Galactica, as crusty old Captain Cutter and his depleted crew set about restoring order to the Ark. In fact, after a while you won’t even care that Master Chief is nowhere to be seen, as these grungier, more battle-worn characters have plenty of personality and intrigue. In keeping with the lore that gave us Cortana, there’s even a new sentient AI named Isabel to guide you.
After a disappointingly on-rails opening mission, the game throws you straight into the fray – so you’re well advised to try the two excellent tutorial missions to get ready for the first hurdle: learning to live with the UI. If you’ve never played an RTS before, this means collecting resources, building various combat units and directing them out on the terrain to do battle with enemy craft, attempting to out-build, out-manoeuvre, and out-gun your foe in every mission.
A console RTS is always going to stand or fall on how well it copes with troop management. Halo Wars 2 takes the old interface and tweaks it in just the right places. To select a single unit click A then X to deploy, attack or garrison that location, or Y to activate special weapons and moves. If you can grab a bunch of nearby units, or double-tap the button to select ‘all units’ – which is what most people will resort to just to see Halo Wars 2 at its most aggressive and bombastic. Maps tend to be smaller than a traditional RTS, but even so it can be hard to keep track of what’s going on, despite judicious use of the D-pad to switch quickly between bases, units or flashpoints. You can also create squads, though this never feels as instinctive as simply looping them together with a PC mouse and allocating a hot key. In fact, a defiantly sluggish cursor remains the biggest blot on the UI.
Speaking of bases, HW2 retains its pared-down approach to buildings and resource management. There are only two resources to worry about (supplies and energy), and only a handful of modular buildings, each with their own upgrade paths. Pathfinding is much improved on last time, even with all the alternative routes available. Indeed, the AI does a pretty good job of taking care of units when you’re off fighting somewhere else, although it’s less reliable when it comes to attacking, something needs to be micromanaged more closely.
But focusing on what the user interface (UI) may lack is to ignore all the great things that come from the Halo part of this unholy alliance. This is a game packed with familiar lore, high production values (including some stunningly atmospheric cut-scenes) and units that look and feel just like their FPS equivalents. The first time you hear your all-terrain Warthogs crunching gravel while turning, or your powerful Spartans slicing through enemies like butter, you’re right back in the core Halo experience. Finally, although there’s no sign of the Flood in this game, don’t assume that Covenant and UNSC are the only technologies available. In fact, getting your hands on Forerunner tech can be an unexpected gamechanger if it comes your way.
You might expect Creative Assembly to use their Total War: Warhammer expertise to overhaul the multiplayer side of things, and it shows. In addition to Deathmatch and Domination – which are perfect for those who enjoy base-building – there’s a new quick-fix mode called Strongholds where you can recruit as many units as you wish, provided you keep expanding to increase your population cap. There’s also a greatbattle mode, dedicated maps for 1v1,2v2 and 3v3 skirmishes and a version of Firefight that can be played solo or co-op against waves of relentless AI forces, only ending with your extinction.
However, the big new addition to MP is Blitz – an intriguing combination of Deathmatch and card game, where 12-card decks are played during the game for tactical advantage. With all base building removed from these matches, assembling and playing the perfect deck will take practice, but initial impressions seem to favour taking an aggressive approach and deploying your strongest units early.
So has Microsoft pulled off the double whammy of pleasing both Halo and RTS fans? Apparently so. This is a game that can sit proudly in the Halo canon and also call itself a true, albeit hybrid, RTS. It’s instinctive to play, exciting to watch and packs in some genuinely new ideas that deserve exploring. And if you still can’t get past the inevitable compromises and unfamiliar UI, there’s always the PC version.
Microsoft; XboxOne (version tested)/PC; £40; Pegi rating: 16

More than 200 artists, musicians, writers and curators have signed up to a global art coalition promising to stage exhibitions and events confronting the rise of rightwing populism.
Leading figures including Steve McQueen, Laurie Anderson, Ed Ruscha, Mark Wallinger, Cornelia Parker, Wolfgang Tillmans, Anish Kapoor and Tacita Dean have all given their support to the Hands Off Our Revolution movement, whose website was formally launched on Thursday.
One of the project’s driving forces is the artist Adam Broomberg, who said the movement aimed to channel anger and explore “the possibility of envisaging a future we want to be in. Just countering the cynicism is a really big thing.”
Broomberg said participants were talking to many arts institutions, large and small, and the first details of exhibitions and projects would be announced in March.
The collective was a reaction to events such as Brexit, the continuing refugee crisis and Trump, Broomberg said. “What is important is that it is not just seen as America’s problem, or Europe’s problem, so we are planning shows in Mexico and Lagos.”
Among the first 200 or so supporters is Kapoor, who said artists were united in a mission to counter small-minded prejudice.
“Our art affirms our humanity and we insist on inclusion of all and for all. We call for action by people of good conscience to stand against the abhorrent policies of the governments that claim to represent us.”
Broomberg said it would be a communal arts effort, a sentiment echoed by Anderson who said: “Artists need to stay in touch with each other more than ever and to focus on making clear effective and artful plans for resistance.”
The coalition also includes gallery chiefs including Iwona Blazwick, director of the Whitechapel in east London. She said: “Economies and communities once flourished around jobs in industry, manufacturing and agriculture, jobs that are disappearing with no alternative in sight.
“Yet I have not heard a single politician put forward a credible strategy for devising inclusive, rewarding and sustainable forms of work. Which is why culture must step in.”
Artist Mark Titchner created an animated web banner for the project launch. He said: “No to the society that demands we all be alike. No to the coercion to consume and conform. No to the poisoned world that drives its people to flee into introspection and solitude. No to the dislocation, depression and anger this breeds.
“Art is for empathy. Art is for loving your brothers and your sisters and yourself. Art is for a chance to live.”
Yinka Shonibare said to do nothing “is to be complicit with intolerance and cruelty”.
The artist added: “We must all unite, regardless of race, gender or sexual orientation, to oppose all forms of bigotry. Populism must never be a guide to our conduct, empathy should be our guide. As artists we bear witness and we must never be silent or be silenced.”
Broomberg, one half of an artistic partnership with Oliver Chanarin, said the project’s origins were in the classroom. He is a professor of photography at Hamburg’s University of Fine Arts, and he recalled going in to his class after Trump’s election and his students sitting in downcast silence.
“Somehow we decided to respond by writing a manifesto, channeling our despondency and anger and that’s where it started,” he said.
The movement had gained traction and momentum, he said. “The amount of support we’ve had has been amazing; people just saying thank you for giving us a place to put our anxiety and to share it.”
The three-times Oscar-nominated film director Agnieszka Holland has said her first foray into murder mystery had accidentally turned into an allegory of the divided society her native Poland has become under its populist nationalist government.
Holland said she and the author Olga Tokarczuk – whose novel Drive Your Plough Over the Bones of the Dead inspired Holland’s latest film, Pokot (Spoor) – had not set out to create a political film, but that they had inadvertently ended up telling a story about a male authoritarian agenda that attacked women’s rights and environmental protection, thereby reflecting the wider reality.
“A lot of things have happened that mirror the scenes in the movie but it was meant as a fantasy, so it seems like we had something of a premonition,” she said.
The 68-year-old, whose first international hit was in 1990 with Europa, Europa, which concerned a young Polish Jew who disguises himself as a member of the Hitler Youth to survive, said: “There’s a cultural counter-revolution going on, which we see with Jarosław Kaczyński [the de facto leader of Poland], as well as in Russia and the US, which is represented by men who have a populist authoritarian agenda that places women’s rights and nature preservation in the front line of attack,” she said in an interview with the Guardian at the Berlin film festival, where her film had its world premiere this week.
Women’s rights and ecology have been two areas under attack since the rightwing Law and Justice party took power in 2016. Among many controversial moves, the government has sought to introduce an all-out abortion ban, as well as relaxing laws that protect swaths of Europe’s last remaining primeval forests.
“Spoor” means the track or trail of an animal that is being hunted, and tells the story of retired civil engineer, Duszejko, who has a penchant for astrology and lives a quiet life in a Polish mountain village on the Czech border, where she teaches English to children in her spare time. When her two dogs – her closest companions – go missing one day, Duszejko sets out to discover who is responsible for their disappearance. What unfolds is, as Holland describes it, an “anarchistic, feminist crime story with elements of black comedy”.
Holland said she and 55-year-old Tokarczuk, with whom she wrote the screenplay, had already been branded “targowiczanin” in Poland, a communist-era term meaning traitor.
Polish journalists who were in Berlin to review Spoor, scheduled for release in Polish cinemas on 24 February, were quick to condemn the film as hostile to their country.
“One journalist for the Polish news agency wrote that we had made a deeply anti-Christian film that promoted eco-terrorism. We read that with some satisfaction and we are thinking of putting it on the promotional posters, because it will encourage people who might otherwise not have bothered to come and see it,” Holland said.
Shooting parties and poaching are the main activities of the men in Duszejko’s village, reflecting its predominance in Poland. “The hunt is quite often the place where important political decisions are made. It’s like a boys’ club – I went to several hunts as research for the film and I saw a woman maybe once. The men are together and they feel free to talk, like Donald Trump does to his buddies about women and power. They can execute their power in a very direct way, by killing living creatures. They also take their sons with them so that they are sure to pass on the flame.”
Duszejko’s passionate opposition to the hunts defines the story, which Holland said is “a bit like a fairytale about anger”. “Anger is a very dangerous thing, and those big men with power are playing with the anger of people. Danger is like a fire. It keeps you warm and you can make your food on it, but it can also burn your house down.”
Holland said the protagonist embodied many disillusioned women of her generation “who are very rational, working as engineers or scientists, who reject the official religion that became very politically corrupt and has little to do with Jesus Christ. But at some point they start to have the need to connect to something like astrology, yoga or zen. It’s the above-55 generation who believed in progress and in the freedom that came with the collapse of communism, and the fact they could take things into their own hands, but who have now lost this hope.”
She said recent large-scale demonstrations in Poland, where women turned out in their thousands to protest against the government’s plan to ban abortion, “were dominated by older women, who feel they have to defend the freedom of their daughters – and sons”.
Similarly, Duszejko takes care of the younger and weaker in her environment. “She is not just thinking of her family, but of the voiceless wider world,” Holland said.
The film-maker started her career as an assistant to Andrzej Wajda and has collaborated with Krzysztof Kieślowski. More recently, she has directed several TV series including The Wire, The Killing and House of Cards. She said she would not rule out making a film about Brexit, recognising the similarities between Brexit supporters and those of the Law and Justice party. “They’re mainly white men who feel deprived of their power, their possessions, who’ve been the gods of the universe and now they’re not. To me Brexit is a disaster that has triggered disintegration, and God knows where it will lead,” she said.
“The Polish right supported Brexit, not openly, but they were really happy it happened – to show these stupid liberals that they’re fucking losing. But it’s like turkeys voting for Thanksgiving, because the Poles will be the first victims of Brexit.”
She added: “One Polish guy in Britain was killed and several were beaten. The Poles in Britain are living in insecurity now and don’t know what will happen to them. There could be a film in it for me. Ken Loach has too strong a belief in social justice for him to make it, whereas I’m much more pessimistic about humanity.”
A plan by former footballers Ryan Giggs and Gary Neville to build two bronze skyscrapers in Manchester city centre is a “planning disaster of a magnitude not seen in decades,” heritage bodies have warned as they urged ministers to intervene.
The pair’s £200m blueprint to build luxury apartments, hotels, offices and restaurants would see the demolition of a 1950s synagogue, a 1930s police station and an 18th century pub believed to be the only nearby building with a direct link to the 1819 Peterloo Massacre.
Four heritage bodies on Thursday told the Guardian they want Sajid Javid, the communities and local government secretary, to consider the application himself and stop what one described as a “substantial, unprecedented and unjustifiable degree of harm” to Manchester’s heritage.
The two bronze towers would include a five-star hotel, luxury apartments, restaurants, bars, retail outlets and a synagogue. Giggs and Neville insist the work would transform the St Michael’s area near Manchester town hall and the Central Library.
But the proposals, announced last July, have been met with fierce opposition from heritage groups and received a mixed response from Mancunians.
Historic England, the government heritage agency, was the latest to attack the China-backed plans on Thursday. Catherine Dewar, Historic England’s planning director for the north-west, said: “We are deeply concerned about how this scheme would affect some of Manchester’s most precious heritage.
“It would have an impact on people’s appreciation and experience of the stunning town hall and library but it would also erase different layers of this area’s history, irreparably damaging the special character of the surrounding conservation area.”
Four other heritage groups – Twentieth Century Society, the Victorian Society, the Ancient Monuments Society and Save Britain’s Heritage – have gone further and asked Javid to “call-in” the planning application if it is approved by Manchester city council’s planning committee, which is expected to consider it in the next few months.
The 700,000 sq ft scheme includes a 200-bed five-star hotel, 153 apartments, 135,000 sq ft of Grade A offices and a synagogue. The site will also include 30,000 sq ft of retail and leisure space, including two sky bars/restaurants, in the 31-storey Number One St Michael’s, while Number Two St Michael’s will be a 21-storey office tower.
Historic England said the design, height and colour of the development on Jackson’s Row would dominate the Deansgate and Peter Street conservation area and “dwarf the nationally important” Central Library and Grade I-listed town hall.
Dewar said: “A dynamic city like ours needs to fully embrace development but this scheme is not good enough to justify the damage it would cause to the streets around the site and to the setting of the city’s most important buildings and spaces.
“It threatens Manchester with the loss of historic places that have soul and tell important stories about our city’s past.”
Save Britain’s Heritage said in a letter to Manchester city council: “It is one of the most damaging applications we have seen in many years, and would have far reaching consequences for Manchester’s historic buildings, townscape and skyline.”
Speaking at the unveiling of the project at Manchester town hall in July, Neville, 41, said he wanted the development to become the new landmark in the city. The former England full-back, who is director of Jackson’s Row Developments, said: “Our vision is to deliver the biggest statement in architecture and development that Manchester has seen in modern times.”
The ex-Manchester United players had not commented on the row on Thursday. Neville retweeted a comment posted by the St. Michael’s consortium on Twitter that said: “St. Michael’s will breathe new life into underused streets linking Albert Square to Deansgate … This project can stitch the wider neighbourhood together providing opportunities for more regeneration to occur beyond the red line”.
Opinion among Mancunians is split. Some have described the towers as “two massive turds pointing to the sky.” But those in favour say the critics “just don’t like change”. The website Manchester Confidential said it had been “removed” from a presentation given by the project last year after heavily criticising the plans.
Some 4,500 people have signed a petition calling for the Sir Ralph Abercromby pub, which is believed to be the only structure remaining in the St Peter’s Field area from the time of the Peterloo massacre. It is also said to be the inspiration for the pub in BBC’s Life On Mars.
“I’d be very disappointed if this place would go,” said one lunchtime drinker on Thursday. “Everyone knows everyone here and it’s nice to have welcoming staff. I’m not into pretentious wine bars. This is a proper boozer where you can get your pints asap.”
The pub’s landlord, Mike Christodoulou, 43, said: “I’m a Manchester lad, born in Old Trafford, and I’ve watched the city move and grow and it’s unprecedented. At the beginning I was looking at buildings getting knocked down but now it’s like the city’s coming together and we’ve got a new city on our hands. We’ve got to be proud of that.
“All I can say is we’re in good talks with the developers and, whatever the outcome, the Abercromby will live on within the new development.”
A Manchester City Council spokesman said: “It would be inappropriate for us to comment on the details of this planning application, which the Council’s planning committee will be asked to adjudicate on in due course, at this stage.
“All planning applications are assessed against a range of criteria including the relevant planning policies, heritage and environmental considerations, their viability and their contribution to regeneration. Any feedback received on the application will be considered carefully as part of the planning process.”
A DCLG spokesman confirmed that the government had received the requests to call-in the application but declined to comment further.
David Beckham: The biggest name of Manchester United’s famed Class of 92, Beckham hung up his boots in 2013 after becoming the first English player to win league titles in four countries. The former England captain now has his own fashion range, a number of lucrative advertising and sponsorship deals and he is a global ambassador for Unicef. He and Victoria Beckham – together dubbed ‘Brand Beckham’ – are said to be worth around £280m.
Paul Scholes: Scholes retired at the end of the 2012-13 season after an illustrious 19 year career at Manchester United. Now more likely to be found on BT Sport, which signed him as a pundit in 2014. The former midfielder is also a co-owner of Salford City alongside former United colleagues Gary Neville, Ryan Giggs, Nicky Butt, and Phil Neville.
Nicky Butt: Butt is the only Class of 92 graduate who retains a full-time role at Old Trafford, where he is head of the club’s youth set-up. The former midfielder was appointed head of academy in February last year after 12 years at the club, in which time he won six Premier League titles, two FA Cups and a Champions League. He also is a co-owner of Salford City.
Phil Neville: The former United defender now regularly appears on Match of the Day as a pundit. Neville, who retired from playing in 2013, had a brief foray into management with Valencia in Spain’s La Liga. He was appointed assistant manager in July 2015, serving in the same role when his twin brother Gary took over in December that year. Phil left the role in May last year and is now said to be looking for a management role elsewhere.
It’s no easy task, writing a memoir of an era, constructing a narrative that your entire generation would even recognise, let alone sign up to. There are many people who would disagree on principle, of whom I think I am probably one. Tiffanie Darke’s Now We Are 40: Whatever Happened to Generation X? sets itself a bold and daunting task, with a central question that is preoccupying us all: “Democratic earthquakes … are undermining much of the progress we made and fought to achieve.” Or, even more straightforwardly: “The political denouement to all of this was starkly illustrated in the Brexit vote. The inclusive, liberal, multicultural society we thought we had built was rejected by just over half the country.”
It is, you have to admit, a head-scratcher: to find oneself having to argue, again, that grabbing women by the pussy is unbecoming behaviour for a head of state; that it is functionally impossible for Polish people to have caused the British housing crisis, or for Mexicans to all, or even predominantly, be rapists, or that Muslim children are no more dangerous than other children. How on earth were our values so poorly defended that we’d have to go back to square one and argue them all over again? And yet, of Darke’s diagnosis, I agree with almost none.
It’s a very tricky form in which to ask these questions, moving from chatty personal reminiscence – “I began to rebel against my mum’s choice of wardrobe for me; she loved all those 80s bright colours” – to large statements about society, interspersed with interviewees of varying relevance. Martha Lane Fox makes elegant observations. Eleanor Mills is good at distilling causation – for example, porn has changed the way young women see themselves – even if you don’t always agree. Ben Elliot, founder of the luxury concierge company Quintessentially, is less enlightening. They seem to have been chosen the way you would populate a newspaper feature: whoever will take your call when you’re on a deadline.
The social observations are made with the glibness of a futurologist, except they are about the past – so it would have been possible to interrogate them a bit more closely, and thereupon discover them to be incorrect. “We currently have a female prime minister,” Darke writes (leave aside for the time being that this was also true of the 80s). “The US voted a black president into the White House and narrowly missed voting in a woman; senior political party members, heads of business and church are now openly gay. Race, sexuality and gender politics have come a long way, thanks to us.”
Except no, it wasn’t thanks to us; these identity politics battles were fought by the generation before us, by the GLC and the Southall Black Sisters, by Peter Tatchell, by Stuart Hall, by second wave feminism. If Generation X had any defining ideology, it was a sort of hedonistic indolence, a puckish refusal to take anything seriously, the adoption of irony as a creed, an MO and a style statement. While Darke namechecks irony, there is no serious attempt to square these positions – that we were the pioneers of inclusivity and multiculturalism on the one hand, and we just wanted to get off our tits and dance to repetitive beat music on the other. Yet the only way to answer today’s sense of political homelessness (as Tony Blair described it) is to confront the fact that we didn’t build our political home. We thought the home was already built, and anyway, homes were for losers.
If Generation X had any defining ideology, it was a hedonistic indolence, a puckish refusal to take anything seriously
In a chapter entitled Clinton’s Cigar, Darke describes the process by which, via the internet, “restrictions around reporting on authority began to melt, power fell victim to the truth”. The US president was undermined, she says, by the new media (the Drudge Report), then the old media (the Washington Post), and was finally hoist on the petard of his own dishonesty. I agree that Bill Clinton and Monica Lewinsky marked a political turning point, but no further; the deeper relevance is that a billionaire, Richard Mellon Scaife, ploughed untold amounts of money into slinging mud at Clinton, some of which finally stuck.
This pattern has been repeated at key moments since, from the creation of Islamophobia by well-funded thinktanks in the US to the generation of a set of alternative truths about the EU by Arron Banks. Conceivably, it wouldn’t have been possible before the internet, but it is far more complex than the creation of transparency by a sudden rush of democratised news. It’s a story about wealth infiltrating politics in a completely new way, and might well tell us something about why we no longer recognise our civic terrain. “Power falling victim to the truth” this ain’t.
Sexual politics is perhaps the hardest thing of all to generalise about, and one could not, in good faith, ask of a single perspective that it do anything beyond starting a debate. However, lines such as “there is a consequence to casual sex, and any girl who thinks she can sleep with as many men as she likes and not beat herself up is lying” begin that debate in an unfortunate place, one that has never heard of sex-positive feminism, has no understanding of the importance of female sexuality in driving equality forward in the first place, and doesn’t even have the curiosity to ask why, in the 90s, we explicitly retook the words “slut” and “slag” as compliments.
When young women today are facing open misogyny unseen since the 1950s, Darke’s tepid half-morality is not enough
When young women today are facing open misogyny unseen since the 50s, this kind of tepid half-morality – sleep with whoever you like, so long as it’s not too many people, because that’s dirty – is just not robust enough. You need to allow for the possibility that not all girls are the same. As for “there always have been and always will be men who take more than is offered, who fail to decode the semantics of when no means no (and, you know what, it is complicated)”, it’s certainly complicated the way Darke tells it. “Someone goes further than the other person wants them to, allowing something to happen that is unwelcome at the very least.”
The syntax is wild. Nobody did anything, one person just allowed something to be done, although was it the person who went further or the person for whom that was too far? And the unwelcome thing, what was that? Did he sneeze in her handbag? “Either party, and it is normally the woman as she is usually physically inferior, cannot always be in full control of a physical experience.” Wait, what? Does that mean physical inferiority necessitates that one relinquish control? Is it just my triceps that are inferior, or could my reflexes use a little work? I can’t figure out whether the mangled language makes these assertions more or less difficult to stomach.
I still applaud the aplomb; aggregating a lifetime is hard enough on one’s own account, let alone on everyone else’s. But these sure as hell weren’t the 90s I remember.
If the star of a reality TV show can become president, then anyone can go into politics, right? That appears to be the thinking of Republicans in Michigan, who are apparently considering asking Kid Rock to run for the US Senate next year.
Roll Call, the newspaper of Capitol Hill, reports that Rock’s name came up during discussions about the state’s senatorial race at a convention of Michigan Republicans. If selected as candidate, Rock – real name Robert Ritchie – would be running against the Democrat incumbent Debbie Stabenow, in what is traditionally a safe Democrat seat. However, Donald Trump narrowly took Michigan in the presidential election, winning by 10,704 votes, or a margin of 0.23%.
Rock has previously supported Republican presidential candidates. He backed Mitt Romney in 2012, then Trump in 2016, and sells Trump merchandise on his website. During the primary campaign last year, he told Rolling Stone: “I’m digging Trump. I feel like a lot of people, whether you’re a Democrat or a Republican, feel like if you get Hillary or Bernie, or you get Rubio or Cruz or whoever, there’s going to be the same shit. Has that much fucking changed when anyone’s in office, whether it’s been a Republican or a Democrat in office, in our lifetime, anyway? I haven’t really seen this big, like, fucking change. Obviously some people fucked up. That’s a long debate. My feeling: let the motherfucking business guy run it like a fucking business. And his campaign has been entertaining as shit. ”
His political views tend towards the libertarian and are strongly anti-left. In a 2015 interview with Rolling Stone he referred to then president, Barack Obama, as “Obummer”, although he did play at Obama’s first inauguration.
That same year, he told the Observer: “I am definitely a Republican on fiscal issues and the military, but I lean to the middle on social issues. I am no fan of abortion, but it’s not up to a man to tell a woman what to do. As an ordained minister I don’t look forward to marrying gay people, but I’m not opposed to it.
Walk into Mandy Parnell’s studio and you might think you were on LA’s Sunset Strip, not Walthamstow, east London. There are animal skulls and guitars on the walls, a vinyl press, an enormous 70s wicker pod. Crisp music booms out of the five enormous speakers that encircle her computer desk.
Parnell is one of the country’s leading mastering engineers, and this is where the likes of the Chemical Brothers, Max Richter and Brian Eno come to hear their finished tracks. Parnell has polished a huge number of albums here including, last year, Jamie xx’s In Colour and Aphex Twin’s Syro.
She is also one of the few women in the male-dominated production world. At tonight’s Music Producers Guild awards – which she describes as the “technical Grammys” – she is one of only two female nominees out of 36 (the other, Manon Grandjean, is up for breakthrough engineer). The MPG says that an estimated 6% of their membership is female, based on a sample survey they sent out last year.
Parnell reckons that women have to work twice as hard. “You put lots of men in a studio and it’s that ‘Who’s going to be top dog?’ pack mentality. You’ve got to be able to deal with that,” she says. “I’ve found that I needed to understand technology a lot more than some of my peers. I’d get a producer really challenging me on a technical level, yet they’d want to talk about the football [with the male engineers].”
Born in Essex, Parnell grew up playing with records rather than dolls. “My parents had a greasy cafe in Wickford and the jukebox guy would give me the old seven-inches. Then life went a bit haywire and I ended up running away and was on the streets.” But she happened to have a friend who was a housekeeper at Richard Branson’s Oxford studio The Manor and the first time she went inside, she knew she wanted to work behind the mixing desk. “It was like that,” she says, clicking her fingers.
Parnell went straight back to London and got on to a music production course. “It took me three years to get a paid job after finishing, though it’s even harder now.” She was “taken on as ‘the woman’ during the Maggie Thatcher era of encouraging women into ‘men’s’ roles”. But she also says that, to her, tokenism is irrelevant. “If you’re passionate about something it doesn’t matter. If you want it you’ve got to fight for it.”
It is for her forward-thinking work on Björk’s last two albums – 2011’s Biophilia and 2015’s break-up album Vulnicura – that Parnell is perhaps best known. Working on Vulnicura was particularly intense, she says. “I was going through a breakup with my husband, the father of my son, and able to relate to Björk.” (Her former husband, the late New Orleans jazz pianist Phil Parnell, died from liver cancer eight months after Vulnicura’s release.)
The album was not without its technical challenges either – amplified when Björk began to combine her music with virtual reality. The Icelandic singer’s Björk Digital exhibition last year comprised a number of VR music videos that the audience could step inside, such as Stonemilker’s sweeping 360 and 3D vistas of Björk on a beach. Parnell was drafted in to make sure the audio worked inside the headsets.
“There’s virtual reality, which works on a gaming engine and then you have 360, which is a film that’s all around you,” explains Parnell. “To do the mix for 360 is complicated, the technology isn’t quite there, because it’s not surround sound – you’re going to move your head inside this experience – so the sound has to relate to your movement. When it comes to an audio mix, especially Björk’s, there are untold layers of sounds, drums, vocals, keyboards and strings. To try and get that to feel natural wherever you move is very difficult. And it needs to feel natural otherwise you’ll get motion sickness.”
All of which sounds impossibly convoluted but by all accounts Björk relishes such puzzles. In a 2015 Pitchfork interview the Icelandic singer made headlines for calling out the sexist assumption that she has less input than her (often male) co-producers. Parnell scoffs at the idea. “She’s ridiculously involved. She pushes you out the way!” she laughs. She demonstrates Björk’s knack for hogging the keyboard over her desk. “Slowly she leans across to get the mouse and within half an hour she’s here and you’re there!”
Many more female artists self-produce now, from Leila Arab to Mica Levi and Shura, whose debut album Parnell mastered last year. But, given that 6% figure, clearly there is still work to be done to get more women working in studios. “I mentor female engineers from all over the world. I say: ‘Look! Been there, done it, worn the T-shirt – if you get any sexist problems, come talk to me.’ We need to get young women over the fear [and say] ‘You can do this!’”
The biggest challenge to Parnell’s work these days is the glut of ways we now consume music. “Often producers joke that it doesn’t really matter, it’s just going to end up as an MP3 on a phone with a kid listening to it down the street.” What’s more, music is changing according to new platforms. “We have Spotify, YouTube, iTunes, Tidal – they’re all doing very different things to the audio in terms of compression,” she says, which in turn affects the depth and scale of what you’re listening to. “There’s a lot of distortion out there.”
In many ways, all this means the role of the sound engineer is more important than ever. After the mixing engineer has worked their magic, mastering people like Parnell must ensure that the final mix is balanced and refined so that it sounds pristine, whether pumping out of an audiophile stereo or a hissy mobile phone. Even so, she says, “if the emotional intention of the music gets across, it shouldn’t matter what we listen to it on”. Take Bob Marley’s Jammin: “It doesn’t matter how you play it, where you play it, on what system: it just works.”
Theresa May’s first bid for her party’s leadership was a low-key affair. It might have escaped detection altogether had she not dropped her guard in a radio interview when asked about the contest. “Let’s wait and see what happens when the autumn comes and the candidates actually declare our … themselves.” It was the summer of 2005 and May was the Tory party’s shadow minister for the family. Michael Howard was its lame-duck leader, beaten in the general election by Tony Blair and sticking around only to hold the ring for a succession battle that would be won by David Cameron.
May abandoned her campaign early, having failed to drum up enough support among MPs. There would be no reason to recall it had her ambition stopped there. But that one misspoken pronoun was a periscope revealing the presence of a battle-class political submarine advancing stealthily through Westminster’s unpredictable waters.
May has not cultivated inscrutability just to thwart her biographer, but that is a side-effect. Rosa Prince’s book, speedily assembled for publication soon after Downing Street changed hands, is a valiant trawl through the new prime minister’s record, but there is only so much that a hasty investigation can reveal about a politician who has spent years fortifying her privacy. Prince’s narrative energy never flags. In a short volume she covers May’s humble ancestry (both grandmothers were domestic servants); her vicarage childhood (during which, as the clergyman’s daughter, she learned always to be on her best behaviour); schools (a mix of grammar and comprehensive, instilling a lifelong prejudice in favour of the former); Oxford University (where she dabbled in politics without arousing great expectations); marriage to loyal companion and political consigliere Philip (but no children – a source of chagrin that May resisted discussing in public until crass insinuation by rivals dragged it into the open); a stint in the City and, finally, steady elevation up the Tory party apparatus.
The author mostly conceals disappointment at her subject’s scandal-proof caution but the subtitle gives the game away: “The Enigmatic Prime Minister” speaks of puzzles unsolved. Old interviews in which May has digressed from politics reveal a formulaic method of sticking to “safe” topics – shoes, cricket and baking. “Read one after another, they are strikingly repetitive,” Prince writes in mourning of hours spent scouring old cuttings for colour.
May’s ascent doesn’t make gripping reading, but since she has reached the summit of power, the story is worth telling. Everything required for a three-dimensional portrait of the prime minister is in this book, but the insight comes flat-packed for efficient shipping, like Ikea furniture: the material is there but it needs assembly.
We read about May’s apprenticeship as a councillor in the London borough of Merton, from which time colleagues report a stalwart work ethic, lack of sociability and thinly disguised impatience to advance to greater things. It is the same when May reaches parliament in 1997. Friends testify to the existence of a private, fun-loving May with a dry sense of humour but none has a great anecdote to prove it.
The details of May’s mundane early career are interesting chiefly because of the historical context. Here is someone who was chasing selection as a parliamentary candidate at a time when the Tory party was unravelling. Black Wednesday in 1992 had shredded the economic credibility of John Major’s government and factional warfare over Europe was thwarting any prospect of a political recovery. Conservatism was deeply unfashionable. The Tories looked sleazy and haggard. Blair was about to be carried to power on a swing of the generational pendulum towards slick metropolitan modernity; it was the age of Cool Britannia.
Cameron’s coterie grated – May had toiled to get to the top; the Cameroons seemed to have landed there in one helicopter
May cannot have been oblivious to this incoming cultural tide but there is no evidence that she understood it or knew people who swam with it. This sets her apart from a younger cadre – the Cameron and George Osborne generation – who leapfrogged over her on the road to power. They felt Blairism had captured an irreversible public mood and calibrated their politics to the style and substance of New Labour.
The contrast with Cameron reveals more about May’s politics than any battle with Labour or Ukip. Prince depicts resentment that built up as May felt excluded from the gilded clique that captured the party when Howard stood down. Class plays a part here, as it always does in British politics. The privileged Notting Hill sensibilities of Cameron’s private school-educated coterie grated against May’s more orthodox small-town Toryism. She had toiled to get to the top; the Cameroons all seemed to have landed there in one helicopter. It is hardly surprising that she sacked most of them when appointing her first cabinet. May’s submarine had ample storage space for grudges.
That doesn’t make the prime minister an enemy of modernisation. Her contribution to the rehabilitation of the Conservative brand is unarguable. In 2002, she famously rebuked conference delegates for allowing themselves to be construed as “the nasty party”. Her views on gay rights shifted enough over the years that she was able to support equal marriage as home secretary. She was sufficiently irked by the patronising and patriarchal habits of Tory local associations that she took an instrumental role in Women2Win – a highly effective organisation supporting aspiring female candidates with a view to reversing parliament’s stubborn gender imbalance.
May has been unafraid to challenge some of the most stultifying reactionary traits of her colleagues. But she also has a deep attachment to the institutions and social networks of grassroots Toryism. They have been a surrogate family to an only child who lost both parents shortly after graduating from university. The party is something “she loves to its bones”, Prince writes. That was never said of Cameron, and it is a reason why many members distrusted him and embrace his successor with devotion. It is also why May is untainted in the eyes of her party by her support for the remain side during the EU referendum. She was merely showing loyalty to the leader at the time, while every unguarded mannerism radiated sympathy with the Eurosceptic instincts of the rank and file. No one doubts the fullness of her conversion to the Brexit cause and few Tories seem to query her judgment in the enactment of a rupture from Europe far more severe than anything advertised by the leave campaign.
May comes across in this account as intelligent but intellectually incuri­ous, lacking agility and imagination
May has the complete confidence of the party grassroots because she is one of them. She has stuffed the envelopes and delivered the leaflets. She has mud on her boots from time served in the campaigning infantry, while the officer-class Old Etonian before her had his feet up on a desk miles away from the frontline. May embodies a tradition of volunteer provincial Toryism at its best and worst. She channels its spirit of redoubtable self-reliance and charitable works. She projects its starchy no-nonsense manners and moral code that is equal parts Anglican faith, Middle England “common sense” and nostalgia for a lost world of deference and ethnic homogeneity.
May comes across in Prince’s account as intelligent but intellectually incurious; determined to absorb the data required to compute a course of action, but lacking agility and imagination. Her desire to serve the country is undeniable, although she appears to have conflated that task long ago with a personal mission to lead the Conservative party. That narrowness of purpose is one reason why her story is impressive, yet uninspiring. She has outmanoeuvred powerful rivals, circumnavigated institutional sexism and worked hard to become prime minister. No one doubts her dedication to a cause, yet very few could confidently say what the cause has really been. And to her biographer’s frustration, those who might know aren’t telling.
• Theresa May: The Enigmatic Prime Minister is published by Biteback. To order a copy for £17 (RRP £20) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
Two teenage girls cycle through Tasmanian woods. One of them is wearing a red coat: always a bad sign. The landscape, punctuated by vertiginous cliffs, looming sea stacks and native forest, is bathed in the raw blue-tinged light particular to small-town mysteries influenced by Twin Peaks. And sure enough, before the spooky opening credits have rolled, one of the girls is drawn into the forest by some weird lights. Are they torches? Aliens? Lynchian hallucinations? I haven’t got a clue, but the girl drops her bike, wanders off, and all we’re left with is the obligatory closeup of the spokes still turning.
So begins The Kettering Incident (Sky Atlantic), billed as the first adult drama filmed in Tasmania, written by a host of Australian talents including Victoria Madden, Cate Shortland and Andrew Knight, and starring Elizabeth Debicki, who is just as good here at fusing mettle with fragility as she was in The Night Manager. The first of eight episodes is a spare, richly atmospheric, Scandi-noirish and largely incomprehensible affair. Not that I’m complaining; if I understood anything this early on, I would feel cheated.
Debicki is Anna Macy, the girl who was with Gillian Baxter when she disappeared. This is the incident of the title that has become so much a part of the coastal town’s identity that the local cafe sells commemorative “Kettering Incident” snow globes alongside its strong black coffee. Shortly after Gillian’s disappearance, Macy left Kettering and we meet her 15 years later working as a doctor in London, where she is plagued by migraines, nosebleeds and blackouts lasting hours at a time. A colleague asks if she experienced any trauma as a child. “I’m not bloody mad,” she snaps. “Far from it,” her friend replies. “All you have is the fear of it.” Fear, in The Kettering Incident, is so pervasive that it is virtually a character in its own right, as is Tasmania: remote, stunning and perpetually and metaphorically misty.
After one such blackout, Anna wakes up inside a hire car with a passport, boarding pass and no luggage. She is back in Kettering, where all sorts of stranger things are happening. Frozen birds drop out of the sky, across which sweeps the green glow of the aurora australis. Massive moths behave unmothily. Threatening notes are received. There are disputes between loggers and “greenies” camped out in the forest. Everyone looks suspicious – and extremely cold. Some locals welcome her. Some hold her responsible for Gillian’s disappearance. Others, including her mother, give her a wide berth. A local girl, Chloe, who confesses to Anna that she, too, sees “the lights”, has a nosebleed. “My mum calls this place the Hotel California,” she tells Anna, before inviting her to a forest party, which, considering the foreboding vibe, sounds about as appealing as an invitation to the White House. “You can’t leave even if you do check out.”
So basically there is no point in Anna leaving: not 15 years ago, and not now. She may as well go to the forest party, which is creepy as hell. She takes drugs with the local disaffected youth, dances to trance and demands Chloe take her to “the lights”, whatever they are. No doubt The Kettering Incident will unfold into one of those disappointing series where the reveal is much less mysterious than you imagined, but for now I am happily lost in the Tasmanian mist.
The Real Marigold Hotel (BBC1) is even more unsettling. It is billed as the “authentic experience of eight famous senior citizens” living together in India for a month to see if they want to retire there. But my first question was to wonder if India had been consulted as to whether it wanted them. By the time Lionel Blair, the oldest member of the group at 87, had described Kochi, in Kerala (a tropical paradise in the south of India known as God’s own country for its beauty and diversity of religions and cultures), as “for want of a better word … a shanty town”, I had my answer. Gesturing at the 16th-century mansion built by Portuguese merchants, where they are waited on hand and foot by Indian housekeepers, cleaners and cooks with the patience of saints, he said with disdain: “When I first started touring, I stayed in places like this.” Going outside the door, he later added, is “horrific”.
Some of the travellers are lovely, though. Miriam Stoppard gamely boogies away at a festival parade. Amanda Barrie declares Kochi has “the edge on Eastbourne, quite frankly”. Dennis Taylor strokes an elephant with a massive grin on his face. Paul Nicholas buys some pants. Otherwise, it’s just a bunch of Brits behaving badly abroad, saying the kind of things that make you wince when they come from the mouths of your own elderly relatives. Saying that, my seventysomething Indian parents absolutely love it.
About 15 years ago, gay photography was largely concerned with nudity and sexuality. There were lots of shots of scantily clothed young subjects romping through the forest or laughing on the beach. I wanted to offer a different perspective, so started photographing the homes of LGBTQ people. Gay men often had a flair for design and lived in some of the most playful places I had ever seen. There was a breed of beatnik iconoclasts and maverick bohemians in New York’s Greenwich Village and San Francisco’s Haight-Ashbury – and they were disappearing. Many had died in the Aids epidemic.
This is Randal Kleiser, the LA film-maker who directed Grease and The Blue Lagoon. He lives in a typical 1960s ranch house, but attached to it is a red barn where he keeps farm animals. I often wonder what these animals are thinking – what do they make of the skyline behind them? Randall treated them as pets rather than as something utilitarian. It looks like the horse is reading his scripts with him.
You see farm animals a surprising amount in LA. There was once a scheme to use goats to “mow” grass. It was meant to be more environmentally friendly, though you could argue it created a lot of methane. And in Mexican communities, it’s not uncommon to see chickens in front yards. You’d be looking at a house to buy and hear this rooster and think: “Oh, I don’t want to live here.” You also see coyotes, foxes, deer and rattlesnakes.
I’ve always had an appreciation of animals. At school, I started this group called Cows Can Collect Credit – there were so many cows in Burlington, Vermont, where I grew up, and I thought nobody appreciated them. It was so successful, with so many kids joining, that the school made me shut it down.
Vermont is widely considered the most liberal state in the US – Bernie Sanders was once mayor of Burlington – but I still worried about being beaten up. Prior to the 1990s, it was not acceptable to be gay. You had to be hush-hush. You had to conform, alter your voice and the way you looked. There weren’t many gay characters on TV: the few that did exist were either extremely effeminate or hairdressers. So people used their homes as a sanctuary, where they could truly express themselves.
The film-maker John Waters is quirky and idiosyncratic, so you’d expect him to have a really interesting crazy space – and so it was. His house in Baltimore had an electric chair in the entryway and there was all this fake fruit everywhere. In his attic, he had this art installation that looked like a place terrorists would use to manufacture anthrax.
Mother Flawless Sabrina, the 1960s drag queen, had wigs up everywhere, not to mention portraits of himself, gold leaf on his ceiling and Brillo pads taped on his wall. He even had a Picasso – though I never found out if it was real. I did find homes that went the other way, though. They were very formal and colonial, like their owner is saying: “I’m just like everybody else.”
Born: Vermont, 1971.
Trained: Economics and politics at Harvard and Cambridge; self-taught in photography.
Influences: Gregory Crewdson, Joel Sternfeld, Arnold Newman and David LaChappelle.
High point: “The new book. It took so long – I went to 30 different states.”
Low point: “I’ve been burnt out to the point that I felt lifeless.”
Top tip: “Don’t focus on equipment, lenses, camera and lighting. Focus on composition, setup, expression and the moment.
A birthday celebration of the actor who has, over 32 years, gradually made Dot Cotton one of Britain’s best TV characters. The programme offers clips, behind-the-scenes shots and glowing tributes but wisely spends most of its time just letting Brown talk. She’s a spiky old pro who doesn’t take the character home with her and has flourished when EastEnders has veered toward the pure theatre you suspect Brown would rather be doing. Jack Seale
The black-clad marauders encountered by England fans at Euro 2016 seemed like a new strain of hooligan: not drunken brawlers but sober, disciplined and terrifyingly single-minded. This shocking film sees Alex Stockley von Statzer travel to Russia to meet some of these paramilitary thugs, placing them in the context of emergent Russian nationalism and locating links to some very high places indeed. What fun the 2018 World Cup could be. Phil Harrison
A sequel to McDonald’s previous investigation into the modern-day mafia, in which he meets the wives, girlfriends and daughters of the professional criminals he interviewed last time. The calibre, if that’s the word, of the subjects of this two-part documentary is impressive: they include Toni Marie Ricci (ex-wife of Gambino family capo-turned-informant Michael DiLeonardo) and Linda Scarpa, the daughter of prolific hitman Greg Scarpa Sr. Andrew Mueller
Released as a film last year, this revelatory Bafta-nominated docudrama concerns John Hull, a theology professor who lost his sight in 1980 at the age of 45. Soon after, he began recording his beautifully articulated insights into blindness and its effect on his mind. Along with subsequent interviews, it is these tapes that the film constructs itself around, with a cast of actors – including Dan Renton Skinner as Hull – lip-synching along to them. Rachel Aroesti
It’s raku week, involving “the most brutal firing in ceramics” and the subsequent nerve-wracking transferral of hot pots into a box full of customised combustible materials. Will everyone’s Japanese sake sets survive? And what’s with all the banana skins? Elsewhere, there are rice bowls to be flung and artful lanterns to be carved, all under the watchful eyes of Sara Cox, and judges Kate Malone and Keith Brymer Jones. Graeme Virtue
Part two of an intriguing behind-the-scenes exploration into the Parisian fashion house focuses on its current creative director, Maria Grazia Chiuri – the first woman to lead the brand, and one who seems determined to bring her own eye for detail and feminist ways to Dior. There’s also further exploration of the different branches of the 70-year-old empire, from perfume to skincare to jewellery, much of which their mega-rich clientele purchase without even viewing. Hannah J Davies
New series of the documentary strand exploring cultural and music scenes around the world – from French rappers in Paris to South Korean K-Pop, and Afrobeat and Femi Kuti in Lagos. In this excellent opener, Zach Goldbaum heads for the San Francisco Bay Area to meet musicians such as G-Eazy and Nef the Pharaoh, alongside the Black Lives Matter movement, in a territory that has witnessed a high number of police shootings of black people. Ali Catterall
Cypher (Vincenzo Natali, 2002) 11.15pm, Film4
Things seem to be looking up for Jeremy Northam’s jaded accountant Morgan Sullivan when he is enlisted by the mysterious Digicorp organisation as an industrial spy. Suddenly, he’s transformed into Jack Thursby, jetting off on adventures and meeting a genuine femme fatale – Lucy Liu’s Rita. But Sullivan’s dream of an exciting life soon turns into a deadly nightmare in this fast and smart sci-fi thriller. Paul Howlett
Up In The Air (Jason Reitman, 2009) 11.45pm, BBC1
If anyone can make a professional redundancy consultant charming, it’s George Clooney. His effortlessly suave Ryan Bingham first-classes it around the US, putting a ludicrously handsome face to a heartless business. It’s sophisticated, witty, beautifully shot and has super support from Vera Farmiga as Bingham’s similarly business-class lover, and Anna Kendrick as a young colleague who needs a lesson in (supposedly) compassionate capitalism. PH
Snooker: The Welsh Open Day four from Cardiff 11.45am, Eurosport 2
Cycling: Tour of Andalusia Stage two, involving a 177.9km journey from Torredonjimeno to Mancha Real in Spain. 3pm, Eurosport 1
Europa League Football: Manchester United v St Etienne The second-tier European competition continues at Old Trafford. 7.30pm, BT Sport 2
One of the most bizarre and weirdly memorable stories of the last 20 years, the coughing major who cheated on Who Wants to Be a Millionaire, is to be the centrepiece of a new stage play.
Called Quiz, it was written by the prolific James Graham, whose breakthrough work was This House originally performed at the National Theatre and currently showing in the West End. His new play was announced as a highlight of the 2017 Chichester Festival Theatre season, the first under the leadership of Daniel Evans and Rachel Tackley.
The coughing major is Charles Ingram, a former army officer who in 2001 successfully answered all of Chris Tarrant’s questions to win £1m. Suspicions were quickly raised and two years later he was found guilty of deception, a jury believing the charge that he used an accomplice to cough when an answer was correct.
“I remember being one of those people who watched it and couldn’t believe the story, couldn’t believe how dramatic it was,” said Graham.
The story itself is a compelling one but Graham said it was recent events which seemed to give it a resonance for now. “We are so obsessed at the moment about truth and what happens when justice becomes entertainment, when politics becomes purely performance and when reality becomes unreality and fantasy.
“There is something about the idea of looking at a story about the search for black and white answers and objective truths that seems quite exciting. But done through the bizarre prism of this incredibly surreal story.”
Graham has been a rising star in British theatre for a number of years and is a writer in demand. Among the things he has written since This House are Privacy – about mass surveillance and whistleblowing – for the Donmar Warehouse, the TV drama Coalition and the book for the musical Finding Neverland. A new play, Ink, exploring the birth of Rupert Murdoch’s Sun, will premiere this summer at the Almeida.
Graham said the idea of a play using the coughing major was brought to him and he soon realised “I could pour into it all my current anxieties about what is going on in the world at the moment.”
The play is expected to have the feel of a live quiz show with possible audience participation. It will also explore the wider “oddly endearing culture, quite middle class, quite southern English” of quiz fanatics, who were just waiting for something like Who Wants to Be a Millionaire to be invented.
It will be directed by Evans, who succeeded Jonathan Church as artistic director last year, arriving after seven years in charge of Sheffield Theatres.
Other highlights include Sir Ian McKellen in the smaller Minerva theatre space for King Lear, a role he first played for the RSC in 2007. “I think he feels he wants another go at it,” said Evans. “And another go in a small space. He is approaching 80 and I think he feels he has to strike while the iron’s hot.”
Chichester has built a reputation for musicals that have gone on to have bigger success – Half a Sixpence, Gypsy and Guys and Dolls being the most recent.
Two musicals were announced for 2017, a new production of Fiddler on the Roof starring Omid Djalili and Tracy-Ann Oberman; and Michael Longhurst directing Sharon D Clarke in Tony Kushner and Jeanine Tesori’s Caroline, or Change.
Revivals will include a new production of Alan Bennett’s first West End play, Forty Years On, starring Richard Wilson; Githa Sowerby’s The Stepmother directed by Richard Eyre; Tennessee Williams’s Sweet Bird of Youth, starring Marcia Gay Harden; and Alan Ayckbourn’s trilogy The Norman Conquests, directed by Blanche McIntyre.
Two other new plays will also be staged: The House They Grew Up in by Deborah Bruce and a “free-flowing” adaptation by Edna O’Brien of her own novel The Country Girls.
The family Michelle Law has created in her debut play, Single Asian Female, is my family. Not just because they, too, are a family of Wongs, and not because they are Asian. The family Law has created could be any Australian family. This one just happens to be Asian.
Produced by La Boite and showing at Brisbane’s Roundhouse theatre, Single Asian Female follows a family of Asian women as they navigate the intricacies of race and racial stereotypes in the predominantly white community of Nambour on Queensland’s Sunshine Coast.
The show opens in a Chinese restaurant, complete with chopsticks, lanterns, chao fan (fried rice), an upstairs bedroom and Pearl (Hsiao-Liang Tang), who has just finalised her divorce but still bears the responsibilities associated with her ex-husband’s business dealings, delivering a table-top karaoke rendition of I Will Survive.
Her daughters Zoe (Alex Lee) and Mei (Courtney Stewart), are at their own crossroads. Zoe, the eldest, has had to move back to Nambour after the loss of her apartment in Brisbane. She is trying to negotiate dating, sex, a possible pregnancy and life as an artist. Mei is in her last year of high school, dealing with mean girls – including the red-haired, image-obsessed Lana (Emily Vascotto) – and peer pressure, while struggling to reconcile her Chinese background with her upbringing in Australia.
The question of culture clash and cross-cultural identity development is interrogated early, as Mei is introduced in the midst of a purge of her “Asian” possessions, including Hello Kitty pyjama pants, a pink puffy jacket, jelly shoes and a comically large Doraemon head mask. Her best friend, Katie (Emily Burton), tries to reason with her, but to no avail. Mei’s Asianness makes her different and she just wants to fit in. Her peers only see her as a stereotype and she has had enough.
But such tokenism doesn’t just disappear after graduating from high school – it follows people into their adult lives as well, and Law’s script deftly and humorously examines the different ways in which objectification manifests for Asian-Australian women. We are taken through a slew of Zoe’s cringeworthy dates, and there is a subversive kind of joy in watching the Anglo actors, Vascotto and Burton, play these characters – a way of literally talking back to the racialised misogyny faced by many, if not all, women of colour who are actively dating, and turning the notion that “all Asians look the same” on its head. The final date, with Paul (Patrick Jhanur – the only male member of the cast), an immigration lawyer, is no less awkward, but the joy of Law’s characters is that they are approachable – partly because they are all unapologetically flawed but still willing to learn.
Law interrogates the basis of many Chinese (and broader Asian) stereotypes, but does not cheapen them by constantly using them as the butt of jokes. Yes, Pearl runs a Chinese restaurant, and both Zoe and Mei play the violin, but Law’s writing forces the audience to view them as three-dimensional characters – as more than just representations of ingrained racial stereotypes. Racial slurs and prejudices are sprinkled throughout the play but not treated lightly. Every “gook”, “chink”, or “where are you really from?” has its place and purpose. There is also an acknowledgement that everyone has their prejudices – and that Asians, too, can be racist.
The play is packed with social commentary but manages to avoid feeling contrived. It tackles the blase way in which white people use “political correctness” to hit back at accusations of racism or sexism, for example, and even manages to sneak in a reference to Pauline Hanson. There is a frank discussion between Zoe and Paul about the confusing terminology around first-, second- and or even third-generation immigrants. Zoe has anxiety, has seen psychiatrists for her mental health, and has taken medication to manage her condition. Law does not shy away from discussing the impacts of domestic violence in a marriage, which is swept under the rug in many Asian families on the basis of saving face.
Most importantly, it is refreshing to see female Asian characters discuss sexuality so openly on stage – complete with views about abortion and promiscuity. It is a subject that is often taboo in Asian families, many of which still subscribe to the strict, conservative ideal of no sex before marriage. The inclusion of such social commentary is both welcome and significant.
It is clear that Law has carefully considered the nuances of her work – no reference or prop is insignificant. A rainbow slinky symbolises a mother’s love, a Missy Higgins shirt a throwback to the previous decade. Mei’s favourite novel is Jane Eyre, a story about a young woman who feels out of place in a world that is supposed to be offering her all manner of opportunities. In one scene, the song Yue Liang Dai Biao We De Xin (loosely translated: my heart is like the moon) plays in the background while Pearl talks of the love she has for her children.
Single Asian Female is not just a play about being Asian, single, female or any combination of the three. It is a play about family, about culture, and about the ways in which we treat people who seem different from what we consider to be “normal”. It is funny, touching and at times profoundly moving. It forces the audience to consider their relationships with their own cultures, as well as those that may be foreign to them. The play is a gift to young women of colour, an extraordinary opportunity for them to see their faces reflected on stage – and I hope it will push those who have been estranged from their culture to find their equivalent of a Doraemon head mask and a pair of Hello Kitty pyjamas.
• Single Asian Female is at the Roundhouse Theatre in Brisbane until 4 March
Damian Cowell was the guy in TISM. We know because he told us so, in a song called I Was The Guy In TISM. Anonymity can be a tough mask to shed, and it was one the seven-piece band clung to for over two decades, hiding their faces and donning fake names.
Think of Kiss without the war paint, or the Residents without the eyeballs: what lies behind the balaclava can only be a disappointment. Years ago, a friend of mine ripped off Ron Hitler-Barassi’s mask in a mosh pit. Stupidly, I asked him who it was. “Some guy,” he replied. Who did I expect?
But amid the constant clamour for TISM to reform (how many original members would it take? Who would know? Would anyone care?), Cowell, the artist formerly known as Humphrey B Flaubert, has been quietly building a catalogue that’s not far short of his old band. And if people aren’t as interested in listening to an advertising copywriter in his mid-50s as they are in TISM, maybe they’ll listen to him alongside a supergroup featuring the cream of Australian satire. Hence: the Disco Machine.
The first Disco Machine album boasted cameos from Shaun Micallef, Tony Martin, Kathy Lette, John Safran and the Bedroom Philosopher, along with a bunch of other celebrities and fellow musicians: Lee Lin Chin, Julia Zemiro, Tim Rogers and Kate Miller-Heidke. That, if nothing else, speaks of some serious pulling power and the esteem Cowell is held not just in Australia’s music community, but in comedy circles.
TISM were the rarest of joke bands (their first gig was poetically called The Get Fucked Concert), in that the joke has remained as obnoxious, funny and true as it ever was – and the music was frequently as good. They cut to the quick of Australian society and manners, pricking the left’s self-righteousness and the right’s mendacity in equal measure. Sometimes they even played it (almost) straight: The Philip Ruddock Blues is as good a protest song as anything by Midnight Oil, though they’d probably cringe at the comparison.
Get Yer Dag On! is the second Disco Machine album, and Micallef and Martin are again present, alongside another stellar roll call of guests: Celia Pacquola, Judith Lucy and many more. There’s a certain irony in there being a sort of identikit anonymity about many of these pounding dancefloor grooves, but that doesn’t matter, because (a) irony is central to everything Cowell does, and (b) he can sing: his melodies and phrasing make many of these songs instantly memorable.
And then there are the lyrics.
It is honestly difficult not to quote some of these songs in their entirety. My favourite is 365 Lemmys, featuring Henry Wagons, which points out how everyone’s favourite rock’n’roll outlaw made fundamentally conservative music by never deviating from a proven formula: “Lemmy turned it up to 10 / Lemmy did it all again / And again and again and again and again / Lemmy was totally Zen.” In a similar vein, Can’t Stop The Music* (*conditions apply) observes that the most common revolutions in rock now are in the modes of distribution and consumption.
Come On Waleed features Henry Rollins (who just gets the title line) and Melbourne songwriter Liz Stringer. It rattles off a list of fallen heroes, both artistic and sporting: “No means yes, I learned that from Lance Armstrong / And Pistorius left us no leg to stand on.” The chorus then begs the beloved polymath columnist/academic/musician/co-host of The Project, Waleed Aly, not to follow them down the celebrity S-bend: “Don’t go changing on me!”
Another inspired duet is between Micallef and Regurgitator’s Quan Yeomans on When You’re Incredibly Good Looking, which imagines a beautiful person’s secret fear that they might not have got where they were on the basis of merit alone: “Thank God I’m ugly!” goes the chorus.
Myf Warhurst guests on two songs: I Smell M.A.N., with Machine Gun Fellatio’s Pinky Beecroft, and My Baby Is Interested In Geopolitics But I Just Wanna Dance (with Tony Martin). The delight of these tracks is just how well she sings them.
Best of all is Barry Gibb Came Fourth In A Barry Gibb Lookalike Contest. Pairing Cowell with a purring Adalita, it shamelessly borrows its hook from Prince’s Controversy, and starts with an oblique reference to his own dilemma: “The truth is horrid / Never quite as good as fiction / That’s why we run away from it / How else do you explain religion?” Later comes this middle-eight: “Young girl with passionate views, says journalism is the calling for me / Then finds out that her job at the news is to keep the public stupid and angry.”
It seems sadly unlikely that TISM are about to get back together any time soon. But while Get Yer Dag On! might not reach the heights of Great Truckin’ Songs Of the Renaissance (what could?), it stands tall alongside much of what came after. Cowell is one ad man you can trust.
It’s no secret that Kanye West and his family have had a weird and rough few months.
In October, his wife, Kim Kardashian West, was robbed at gunpoint in Paris. In November, West endorsed Donald Trump (“if I would’ve voted, I would’ve voted for Trump,” he told booing fans during his Saint Pablo tour); soon afterwards he had a breakdown and was hospitalised; after that West and Trump met for a cringe-making photo opp at Trump Tower. Later, during the furore over Trump’s executive order, West deleted every tweet mentioning the president from his timeline, while reports circulated that he was still regaining his memory after his illness.
It seems amazing that West would have the bandwidth to produce a fashion show in addition to all that, but produce one he did. In fact, Yeezy presentation was a much smoother affair than last season’s show, during which models fainted and editors grew disgruntled while waiting for hours in the searing September heat.
This time the show took place in a darkened studio on Pier 59, and started just 25 minutes late, which in Fashion Time is basically early.
It began with large projections of videos of models wearing clothes that were far broader in scope than the usual dusty, apocalyptic Yeezy streetwear: light washed denim worn with camel-coloured boots that brought to mind suburban malls, teal-coloured hoodies, sweaters and cardigans with Calabasas – a reference to the Californian suburb in which West and his family live – emblazoned across the back.
There was camouflage military wear, too, with oversized parkas and shearling coats and tracksuits worn tucked into thigh-high boots that more closely echoed the look of previous Yeezy collections.
Trainer-heads have been speculating for months about the Yeezy range’s new “runner shape” shoe – a traditional spongy design that looks more 1990s gym than the brand’s more famous Star Wars-esque designs – which appeared here in black and burgundy.
The model casting certainly did not represent a Trump-friendly isolationist America. It included the catwalk debut of featured Halima Aden, a Somali-American who wears a hijab and was born in a Kenyan refugee camp. Aden made headlines last year when she wore a hijab and a burkini while competing in the Miss Minnesota beauty pageant. In today’s show she wore an outfit that might undermine the positive message for many people, if it was as real as it looked: a floor-length fur coat.
West has had a tumultuous time while trying to make it as a fashion designer, running the gamut from critical ridicule for his first collection in 2011 to huge commercial success working with Adidas on the Yeezy. Never one to quit while he is ahead, last season’s ramshackle show undermined much of his hard work, with many editors swearing off ever attending a Yeezy show again – and that was even before he enraged the liberal industry by endorsing Trump.
But then a funny thing happened at the end of the show. Expecting fireworks, or at least a Kanye West bow, when the last models filed off, the audience members sat patiently. In fact the show was over: Kanye had pulled a Martin Margiela and declined to come out and accept the applause. Eventually they got an encore of sorts as Kim ran across the catwalk in heels, beckoning to Anna Wintour, who beamed as she quickly sprinted afterwards to join the rapper and his crew backstage. For the fashion industry, that’s quite the endorsement.
Dancer Daniel Kok was recently in Melbourne in a show he devised with Australian performer Luke George called Bunny: an interactive exploration of bondage and the ancient underground erotic art of shibari. Kok’s works are provocative, often erotic explorations of current politics, of desire, of complicity. They’re not, in most cases, about being Singaporean.
But as part of the inaugural Asia-Pacific Triennial of Performing Arts (Asia Topa) in Melbourne, cultural categorisation is inevitable. Although not the festival’s overt aim, Asia Topa and festivals like it – including Adelaide’s OzAsia festival – categorise performers according to geography and culture in an attempt to improve a still underdeveloped relationship between Australia and its neighbours.
Kok is ambivalent about being involved in an “Asian” festival. He says the idea of representing his country through his work makes him “cringe”. But the existence of Bunny, alongside most of the shows in the triennial, speaks to a sophisticated international network of collaboration and funding which Kok and Asia Topa’s organisers believe is necessary to really engage with artists and venues in the region in a meaningful, ongoing way.
“This is what it means to be involved in cultural diplomacy; I realise I’m involved in a bigger picture, it’s not just about my work,” says Kok. He sees Asia Topa as the latest in a growing field of opportunities for collaboration throughout the region. “This is a very good moment to be working in Asia.”
Asia Topa, which started in January and is based in Melbourne, is a four-month-long juggernaut of 60 shows from 15 countries across the region, including a tour by celebrated Indian Bollywood composer AR Rahman, the Australian debut of the National Ballet of China’s The Red Detachment of Women, and an ever-changing program of Asian art, dance and music at the State Theatre’s XO State.
The festival’s creative director, Stephen Armstrong, who is in his 50s, says for his generation, Asia was a “transit zone” on the way to the cultural centres of Europe and the US. The associate director, Kate Ben-Tovim, says for a generation younger, Asia has become a magnet for Australia’s creatives, a place to learn and collaborate.
Asian cultural experiences – in art, design, music, food and spirituality – are no longer seen as unusual for Australians, and the thrust behind the triennial is to normalise it even further. “The whole point was removing the barriers ... even for the older generations,” Ben-Tovim says.
But while bringing Asian artists to Australia helps whet local appetites, what about those already on our shores? Residents of Asian descent make up Australia’s fastest-growing demographic and represent more than the 12% of the population. Yet when it comes to culture, our stages and screens still show a marked lack of Asian faces or themes.
Australian stage and screen actor Ming-Zhu Hii, who has recently had roles in TV series Party Tricks and the Ex-PM and is currently appearing in Newton’s Law, says the culture has only recently begun to change. “My colleagues and I have been talking about this for years,” she says. “We are the audience too. The interesting thing about Asia Topa is that you [now] feel the groundwork has been done politically.”
It’s a sentiment shared by director and producer Tony Ayres, born in Portuguese Macau and co-founder of successful film and TV production house Matchbox Pictures.
Ayres says we’re only now beginning to see white as one of many colours, rather than the default, and there has been a marked increase in Asian actors being cast in mainstream dramas. With shows like Maximum Choppage, Nowhere Boys and The Family Law among the Matchbox stable, Ayres’s work represents a recent shift in telling non-Anglo stories on screen and in our theatres.
“The conversation’s changed in the past few years. Diversity and colour-blind casting is increasingly becoming the norm in conversations,” he says. He welcomes Asia Topa as part of that broader movement. “Any opportunity to see work from Asian cultures is of itself a good thing, and a multiplicity of tactics are needed.”
The Asia Topa triennial is shared between the Melbourne Arts Centre and venues throughout the city, and includes $2m from the Sidney Myer Fund.
Three-and-a-half years in development, its blueprint, says Armstrong, is Queensland Art Gallery’s Asia-Pacific Triennial of Contemporary Art, founded in 1993, which has fostered arts practices across the region, and developed international arts careers.
Asia Topa has a similarly devolved style of programming, with loose consortia of local and regional artists and producers of Asian descent and beyond, who devise their works in “labs”. The collaborations will hopefully continue and spawn other productions. As Armstrong puts it: “We are just as interested in the morning after as we are in the act.”
He says the regional sweep of the inaugural triennial feels necessary in order to “open the door as wide as possible”, but it’s just the beginning of a dialogue about what culture means for Australia and its neighbours.
For Kok, a performer with an international practice, work being made in Asia is now part of a “bigger conversation” – and although he finds being pigeonholed according to his ethnicity “plain ridiculous”, it’s “not surprising in a conversation about Asia that’s still quite new”.
“Twenty years ago artists tended to be more focused on their own sense of cultural identity,” he continues. “There’s still that, but a contemporary work [in Asia] today is not just about contemporising a traditional form or directly dealing with social commentary of our own country. It’s quite exciting.”
• Asia Topa runs in Melbourne until April 2017
My mother, Mary Welsh, who has died aged 88, inspired thousands of people to walk the wilds of Scotland and northern England and appreciate their flora and fauna, through her numerous books and published articles. While Alfred Wainwright guided walkers up high fells, Mary described walks that explored less visited lower slopes, moorlands and valleys, often covering three or four different habitats in one circular route and providing views of famed peaks from little-known vantage points.
Mary’s first book, A Country Journal: The Diary of a Cumbrian Naturalist (1982), chronicled her wonder as she settled into the Lake District village of Broughton-in-Furness, to which she had moved from Islington, north London, a few years before. Her last, Walking Fife: The Ochils, Tayside and the Forth Valley, was published in 2012. She wrote 38 books and 12 substantial booklets, which together sold more than 200,000 copies.
Mary was driven by her enthusiasm for others to share her love of nature. From a brief burst of song, she could identify a bird, whether it was a male or female, young or mature, looking for a mate or defending its territory. She particularly loved Scotland, and treasured the woodpeckers in her garden and the signs of spring, the first cuckoos and daffodils.
There were books on walks to waterfalls, along canals and for children, across northern England. Her magnum opus, however, was written between 1989 and 2012 and consisted of 21 books covering every corner of Scotland in a series called Walking Scotland. Each volume contains 40 walks, and she hiked 6,000 miles, with friends and family, to complete the series.
Mary was a writer for the Kendal-based Westmorland Gazette, contributing 692 columns over many years. She also wrote over various periods for the Times, the Daily Express, Country Walking, Lakeland Walker, Cumbria, the Lancashire Telegraph and the Big Issue in the North. Her last walk appeared in the December 2016 edition of Country Walking.
Mary grew up in Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire, the third child of Walter Croker, a school bus driver, and his wife, Ethel (nee Goodenough), a seamstress. In 1942 she went to Watford Technical and Art Institute for two years before attending Watford grammar school for girls. She then went to Furzedown Training College, south London, in 1946 to train as a biology teacher. Over the next four decades she taught in secondary schools in London, including for six years at Chandos secondary modern school, Stanmore, and Cumbria, retiring in 1991 from John Ruskin school in Coniston, where she taught from 1979.
In her childhood, she had loved exploring the countryside. She met her future husband, Tom Welsh, who became a Guardian journalist and editor of Essential Law for Journalists, while youth hostelling in Devon in 1947, and they married in 1954. They made their first home in Kendal, where my father was working on the Westmorland Gazette as a trainee reporter.
Tom died in 2014. Mary is survived by her four children, Cheryl, Sarah, John and me, and six grandsons.
Volker Schlöndorff’s scalding film of The Tin Drum shared the Palme d’Or with Apocalypse Now in 1979. The director turns 78 next month and is no longer at the peak of his powers. But Return to Montauk proves that he still has it in him to startle and wrongfoot an audience.
What appears to be a clunky, tasteful, middle-aged rehash of Before Sunset, with two former lovers reunited after one of them writes a novel about their affair, turns out at the eleventh hour to have a sting in its tail. Schlöndorff and the novelist Cólm Toibín wrote the screenplay, which is adapted in part from the memoir Montauk by the late Swiss playwright and novelist Max Frisch, to whom the picture is dedicated. All three men have in one sense taken a leaf out of another book – or, to be precise, a short story, since the picture owes its killer ending to James Joyce’s The Dead. Irishness makes itself felt also in a perky turn by Bronagh Gallagher (The Commitments, Pulp Fiction) and a cameo from Toibín himself, who is seen grinning on the steps of the New York Public Library.
Max (Stellan Skarsgård) is in Manhattan to promote his latest book, a partly fictionalised memoir called The Hunter and the Hunted, which includes reminiscences about a romance that slipped through his fingers. The object of his affection was Rebecca (Nina Hoss), who just happens to be living and working as a lawyer in the city. When he turns up at her swish apartment, she is less than impressed. “You’ve put on weight,” she says. “I told the cats you’d be thinner.”
After thawing a little, she invites him to accompany her to the Hamptons at the weekend, where she is scheduled to view a holiday home that she’s thinking of buying. She had a place before, she admits, but put it back on the market after only using it a few times. Audiences would be forgiven at this point for wondering where exactly the appeal might lie in a story about the property woes of the extravagantly wealthy. The early scenes have already tested our patience by appearing to suggest that a self-absorbed nitwit like Max is fascinating purely by dint of being a novelist. Ever noticed that it’s usually novelists advancing that argument?
Besides, there are more promising characters in the margins. Max’s mentor Walter is played by Niels Arestrup, that switchblade of a man with nicotine-yellow locks, who was so hypnotically brutish in A Prophet; he lends Walter a distracted, impatient manner which hints at buried secrets. And when Rebecca mentions that she buys bespoke toiletries made by two lesbians in Connecticut “who talk to you and then tell you what soap you are”, it will be a tolerant viewer indeed who doesn’t think: They sound colourful! Couldn’t the film be about them instead?
But as Return to Montauk hits the 80-minute mark, and the waves crashing on the beach generate almost as much froth and foam as there has been in the script, the tone turns suddenly overcast. Max’s earlier flippancy (“Never believe anything a writer tells you,” he had joked) is challenged by Rebecca, who demands: “Tell me for once something that’s true.” Until that point, it’s possible to wonder why Nina Hoss, who has been so complex and surprising in films for Christian Petzold such as Yella and Phoenix, was drawn to this rather plain and snippy role. In the space of two scenes, the penny drops and the attraction becomes clear.
Whether the ending justifies the journey is another matter. Toibín’s Brooklyn, which was adapted for the screen by Nick Hornby, also took a circuitous route to its painful payoff, but at least there were rich and telling details along the way and the characters were not borderline insufferable. Nothing really rings true in Return to Montauk until the pain breaks through and the tears start to flow. Perhaps that’s the point. The film-makers should accept, though, that not everyone will want to put up with Max for an entire movie just to see the smug smile wiped off his face at the end.
Speculation has long raged over the fate of the characters in Love Actually, Richard Curtis’s 2003 Christmas classic. Thirteen months ago, script editor (and Curtis’s wife) Emma Freud sated some fans with a scattering of answers: Alan Rickman and Emma Thompson remain married but aren’t as happy; Keira Knightley and Andrew Lincoln never get together; the little lad and that girl he saw off at the airport do.
But the day so many have been waiting for has finally come. On Wednesday, Curtis announced a belated sequel to the film – albeit with an abbreviated running time, and premiering on TV rather than at the cinema.
Red Nose Day Actually will be broadcast on BBC1 on Red Nose Day, 24 March in the UK, and on NBC to coincide with the US equivalent on 25 May. It promises to reunite many of the cast, including Hugh Grant, Martine McCutcheon, Keira Knightley, Andrew Lincoln, Colin Firth, Lucia Moniz, Liam Neeson, Thomas Brodie-Sangster, Olivia Olson, Bill Nighy, Marcus Brigstocke and Rowan Atkinson.
Emma Thompson is not listed among their number. Alan Rickman, who played her unfaithful husband, died last January.
Curtis has previously made spinoffs for Comic Relief – of which he is a trustee – of TV projects such as Blackadder, The Vicar of Dibley and Mr Bean.
He said: “I would never have dreamt of writing a sequel to Love Actually, but I thought it might be fun to do 10 minutes to see what everyone is now up to. Who has aged best? I guess that’s the big question … or is it so obviously Liam?
“We’ve been delighted and grateful that so many of the cast are around and able to take part – and it’ll certainly be a nostalgic moment getting back together and recreating their characters 14 years later.”
A notoriously polarising film, Love Actually’s cultural currency has grown in the 14 years since it was released. The film has been repeatedly unpicked, spoofed and deconstructed; four foreign language films – in Japanese, Hindi, Polish and Dutch – have also been inspired by the movie.
The showdown between Hugh Grant’s upstanding UK prime minister and the boorish, lecherous US president – reportedly based on a Bill Clinton/George W Bush hybrid – has been a touchstone of political discourse ever since. Even this week, Canadian premier Justin Trudeau found himself compared to Grant, following his meeting with US President Donald Trump.
Breaking: Justin Trudeau Is Hugh Grant in 'Love Actually' https://t.co/b0xYXeBvtk pic.twitter.com/E1lW6Pccvh
The original film made £194m worldwide and won a supporting actor Bafta for Bill Nighy. It marked Curtis’s debut as a director; he has since taken the reins on The Boat that Rocked (2009) and About Time (2013).
Curtis co-created Comic Relief and its biennial highlight, Red Nose Day, with Lenny Henry in the mid-1980s. On the last Red Nose Day in 2015, it was announced that over the 30-year history of Comic Relief, Red Nose Day and Sport Relief, more than £1bn had been raised.
Late-night hosts took aim at former national security adviser Michael Flynn, who resigned after just 24 days on the job.
On The Daily Show, Trevor Noah joked about Flynn’s assertion that he wasn’t aware that his calls with Russia would have been recorded.
Tonight at 11/10c, Michael Flynn is the first of Trump’s cabinet to resign. (We had our money on Spicer…) pic.twitter.com/I4yQShaqh7
“He didn’t know that the US government routinely taps calls to the Russians, which is stupid,” he said. “That’s the plot of every spy movie: America taps Russia’s calls. Everyone should know that.”
He also ridiculed Flynn’s excuse for not conveying all of the information to Mike Pence: the “fast pace” of the job.
“That’s not a valid excuse,” he said. “That just sounds like you’re trying to tell someone a story and you’re both on opposite trains, and that’s why you couldn’t tell them the story.”
On The Late Show, Stephen Colbert took pleasure in the overwhelmingly poor start to the ex-reality TV star’s presidency. “By now I’m sure you’ve all heard the news: the Trump administration is going great,” he said.
He referred to Flynn as “former national security adviser and man who doesn’t see what’s so damn funny” before joking about his actions: “It’s funny because it’s treason.”
He also commented on Trump’s lack of action throughout, despite former attorney general Sally Yates saying weeks prior that she was concerned Flynn was susceptible to Russian blackmail. “The president did nothing about it, but then he’s very busy attacking Nordstrom, Arnold Schwarzenegger’s ratings and then firing Sally Yates,” he said.
Colbert also found time to criticize the White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, who claimed that Flynn leaving was not about legality but rather trust.
“Yes, it wasn’t a legal issue, it was a trust issue,” he said. “Trump stopped trusting Flynn because Flynn did something that was so darn illegal that Trump had to ask for his resignation. Say what you will about Sean Spicer, but he is the MC Escher of bullshit.”
Spicer also claimed that Trump has been incredibly tough on Russia. “Trump has been incredibly tough on Russia,” Colbert said. “I mean, the hotel dry cleaning bills alone.”
On Late Night with Seth Meyers, the host also brought up Flynn’s short time as national security adviser. “Twenty-four days!” he said. “I use disposable razors longer than that. He didn’t even last as long as a David Blaine stunt.”
He also played footage of Flynn last year calling for Hillary Clinton to be charged for misconduct. “I guess that’s why Flynn’s resignation letter was just the words ‘lock me up’, written Shining-style on a typewriter,” he said.
He then moved on to Stephen Miller, who he said “looks like the guy who shows up with a flashlight when teens are getting drunk in a graveyard”.
There was also time to remind viewers of Kellyanne Conway’s deceptive tactics: “Just a reminder that if Kellyanne Conway is ever on TV saying there isn’t a tornado coming, get in the basement,” he said.
He also found footage of Trump claiming he had no idea that Flynn was being investigated for a connection with Russia. “Trump sounds like a guy who’s being told there’s a nude scene in a movie he’s definitely already watched,” he said.
Mixed feelings are the only ones available on hearing that Richard Curtis is bringing out a bite-sized mini-sequel to 2003’s portmanteau romcom Love Actually, to mark this year’s Red Nose Day on 24 March. This featurette promises – or threatens – to bring us up to speed on what those adorably quirky lovestruck characters are up to now. This is for charity, and Red Nose Day is a thoroughly admirable institution in British public life, and Curtis deserves every plaudit for having invented it.
But for most of the characters in Love Actually 2, the best case scenario would be that they all happened to be crammed on to the same hot air balloon that is struck by lightning over a desert, resulting in them falling through the air and all being impaled on the spines of the same giant cactus. Horny Colin, played by Kris Marshall, who cops off with three gorgeous American girls on his trip to the US, is a candidate for the hot-air balloon tragedy, although I’d like to see Julia Davis, who was wasted on the tiny role of awful caterer in Colin’s story, brought back as a serial poisoner, perhaps married to Rowan Atkinson’s weirdo store assistant. Martin Freeman and Joanna Page, who met on a film set as body-doubles for a sex scene, could also frankly go on the hot air balloon, although their offspring could now be professional child actors in School of Rock in the West End.
Andrew Lincoln was the entirely insufferable bloke in love with Keira Knightley, the bride of his best mate, Chiwetel Ejiofor. He unendurably confessed his love by silently holding up a series of cards on her doorstep, to the tune of carol singers. The scene became legendary enough to be spoofed on Saturday Night Live. However, he could now come out as gay and in denial about his love for Chiwetel, which was what the original plot should have been.
Liam Neeson’s son Sam, played by Thomas Brodie-Sangster, is now married to Joanna, played by Olivia Olson, with whom he was desperately in love at school. They now live in the US, where they have become billionaire vloggers marketing their own online seminars in couples therapy. Ageing rock star Bill Nighy is living in platonic bromantic bliss with his manager Gregor Fisher, and they are now jointly curating the Meltdown festival at London’s Southbank Centre. Colin Firth is still together with the lovely Portuguese woman played by Lucia Moniz who did his cleaning for him after his painful marital breakup. They are living in Britain with children – but Brexit threatens to tear them apart! Aurelia no longer has the right to stay in the UK! So Firth writes an impassioned letter to the prime minster, played by Hugh Grant and who has returned to No 10 after Theresa May was defeated in the general election she was finally forced to call.
Grant is now divorced from Martine McCutcheon, who instead lives with Laura Linney’s character, Sarah. But Grant faces his biggest challenge yet: having become famous for standing up to the Americans, he now cancels President Trump’s state visit and sees his poll numbers go through the roof. He confers honorary Brit citizenship on Aurelia. There is actually a cloud of sadness in Love Actually 2.
Easily the best scene of the original film was the moment when Karen, a married woman played by Emma Thompson, realises her husband is having an affair. His Christmas present to her is a Joni Mitchell CD and not the expensive necklace she found in his coat pocket. She has to go into their bedroom to have a tiny suppressed cry. It is very well acted: a poignant and real moment. Her husband was played by the late and much-loved Alan Rickman, who very sadly died in last year’s annus horribilis of loss. It could be that Thompson’s character will be brought back in LA2 as a widow. Her gentle, humorous, well-judged presence could save the whole thing.
All relationships are built on a foundation of trust. Donald Trump trusts Sean Spicer to be perpetually angry and confused, like a giant toddler trapped in a hall of mirrors, because that is, apparently, what he wants. Piers Morgan trusts everyone on Twitter to scream abuse at him all day long, because that is the only way he gets to experience human emotion any more. And, less public but just as important, I trust my wife not to watch episodes of Orange is the New Black behind my back.
Because that is the absolute nucleus of our relationship. And probably yours, too. Between work and parenting, the time we get with each other is precious and fleeting. If we’re going to watch a TV series, we’re going to do it together. We’re going to experience all the highs and lows and twists and turns together, as a couple, and under no circumstances are we allowed to charge off on our own and leave the other behind.
And yet this happens. A study from the streaming company suggests that an increasing number of us indulge in “Netflix cheating”. We are all sneaking off behind our partner’s back to stream an illicit solo episode of a series we had promised to share. The study says that nearly half of American subscribers have cheated like this in the past, and it often causes an argument. Netflix cheating is basically an ugly flipside to Netflix and Chill, where all the transient pleasure of sexual intercourse is replaced by unbearable tension and nightmarish reprisals.
In my parents’ day, you couldn’t Netflix cheat, because television programmes were simply on when they were on. If you missed an episode of Dallas, you would have missed it for ever. You would have to go the rest of your life without knowing who shot JR. It’s a wonder how anyone managed to get anything done with that sort of pressure hanging over them. Now, though, since everything is available all at once, it’s a real test of moral fibre for people to watch at an agreed pace.
You can understand why Netflix cheating causes so many fights. It’s a basic abuse of trust. If you have agreed that you will watch each new episode of a series together, only to gorge yourself when your partner calls it a night, it’s hard to tell what else you are capable of. Your impulse control is clearly blasted to smithereens. You probably have a secret chocolate stash in a cupboard somewhere, don’t you? You are probably having an affair with a neighbour. You probably creep out of your house at the dead of night and lease your children to black-market organ harvesters, don’t you?
To my knowledge, my wife has never Netflix cheated on me. I have run all the basic checks – I have logged into her account and checked her “Continue Watching” submenu to see if she has been sneaking in episodes of The OA on the sly. Sometimes I will even read online spoilers of episodes I have yet to see, just to try to catch her out. “What do you think will happen to that dragon,” I’ll ask at the end of Game of Thrones, then scan her face to see if she knows that it will blow up a sheep or whatever. If I were ever to see any of those signs, that would be it for us. I’d stuff all her things in a bin bag and hurl them out on to the street. We simply could not survive with a betrayal of that severity.
Luckily, we have communication in our favour. We both know that, if either of us are tempted to steam ahead with House of Cards alone, the best thing we can do is be upfront about it. “I need to know what happens to Frank,” we’ll say, “but I can’t because you’re in hospital having that operation.” And, from there, we can build a framework where we can both watch the next episode independently of each other, never discuss it, and then come back and enjoy the rest of the series together.
We also have a clutch of back-up shows that are just for us. When things get really bad, these shows are our methadone. Sure, our bodies are telling us to plough on and devour the Stranger Things finale, but our heads remain cool. Our heads tell us that this is a prime opportunity to watch Comedy Bang Bang, because our wife hates it and we are forced to watch it alone like some sort of bloody leper anyway.
This trust is the very foundation of our relationship. We know how wrong Netflix cheating is. We would never stoop to the depths of setting up a new account for our son – ostensibly because we don’t want our finely curated viewing algorithm to be upset by a rainy afternoon Timmy Time session – purely so we can use it to watch The Crown without the other one ever finding out. Well, my wife wouldn’t. Sorry, wife. I didn’t want you to find out this way.
When Channel 4 was launched in 1982, its brief was to be distinctive and innovative. As a senior commissioning editor and then head of drama until 1990, David Rose, who has died aged 92, took up that challenge for the movies produced under the banner of Film on Four, with many successes including Neil Jordan’s Angel (1982) and Mona Lisa (1986), David Leland’s Wish You Were Here (1987) and Mike Leigh’s High Hopes (1988).
Two decades earlier, Rose had been breaking new ground at BBC Television, as the first official producer of its police series Z Cars, and he went on to invigorate regional drama for the corporation. Among the writers whose talents he nurtured were Alan Plater, David Rudkin and Alan Bleasdale – and David Hare was astonished and delighted by his boldness.
The idea of Z Cars came from the writer Troy Kennedy Martin, who during a brief illness in 1961 had idly eavesdropped on police messages using his newly acquired VHF radio. The concept was eagerly taken up by the assistant head of drama responsible for the documentary strain, Elwyn Jones, who sought the cooperation (quickly withdrawn) of Lancashire police, and incidentally learned the code names for the cars with which they policed the urban sprawl north of Liverpool.
Kennedy Martin and a fellow writer, Allan Prior, were sent there to live among the local populace. John McGrath, director of the first episode, on 2 January 1962, was responsible for the inspired casting — James Ellis, Brian Blessed, Jeremy Kemp, Joseph Brady, Stratford Johns, Frank Windsor and, as wife of one of the coppers, Dorothy White. The black eye her husband had given her was an early indication that this was to be a warts-and-all picture of policemen rather than the cosy Dixon of Dock Green image. It was also revolutionary in the pace and range of the action, despite a sparing use of film inserts. Within a month it was attracting an audience of 15 million.
The sheer pressure of rehearsing, recording and editing the equivalent of a brisk little movie every week, however, was formidable. No one director or pair of writers could do it. If continuity and style were to be preserved, there had to be someone to supervise every detail of the series, which eventually ran for 16 years as well as spawning various spin-offs. This was where Rose came in for the first three years, his task not eased by the need to transmit the show live from the BBC studios in London, 200 miles from the actual location. He then launched Softly Softly (1966-67), relocating Johns and Windsor to a police regional crime squad.
Another series set in the north of England, The First Lady (1968-69), with Thora Hird as a crusading local councillor, had scripts by Plater. Again it had to be recorded in London. Though Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland might be allowed to shoot a few plays, in other respects drama was centralised, and Rose was not alone in questioning this policy. After a spell in charge of television training (1969-71), he was the logical choice to fill the newly created post of head of regional television drama (1971-81).
He based himself in Birmingham but cast his net widely. Results started to come at once. Second City Firsts (1973-78) was a rather intimidating title for an anthology of short plays from all quarters, including a striking debut, Early to Bed (1975) by Bleasdale, who would go on to write The Boys from the Blackstuff. The latter series had as its starting point The Black Stuff (1980), produced by Rose as a Play for Today. Also in that slot came Rudkin’s magical masterwork Penda’s Fen (1974), not only set in the Malvern hills but recorded with lightweight cameras at the precise locations.
Plater’s six Trinity Tales (1975) were swapped by latter-day pilgrims not on the road to Canterbury but aboard a bus taking them from Hull to the Rugby League final in Wembley. Philip Martin’s Gangsters (1976-78) depicted Birmingham at the mercy of multiracial villains.
Born in Swanage, Dorset, David was the son of Alvan Rose, a jeweller, and his wife, Gladys (nee Hill). On leaving Kingswood school, Bath, in 1942, he volunteered for the RAF, and by the late stages of the second world war was a flight engineer in Bomber Command. He flew on 35 operations, one of them to Königsberg (now the Russian city of Kaliningrad), at the very limit of a Lancaster’s range. Another time, he and all the crew of his plane narrowly missed being blown to bits when two engines failed on take-off and they crashed into a ditch. The usual bomb-load at this time was one huge explosive blockbuster embedded among scores of little incendiaries. The big bomb would certainly have detonated, Rose believed, but by error one too few of them had been delivered to the squadron, and their plane carried incendiaries only.
On demobilisation he studed at the Guildhall School of Music and Drama, London. He worked in repertory from 1952, and this was followed by stage management experience in a couple of ballet companies before he joined the BBC in 1954. He won recognition in 1958 as producer of Medico, a vivid TV drama-documentary about a ship steaming for port with an injured man aboard and the efforts to get the medical officer to his aid. It was written by a former BBC war correspondent, Robert Barr, who went on to contribute to the writing of Z Cars.
By the time Rose started with Channel 4, he had been won over to the idea of making all he could on film, both in short and feature formats. In the absence of government support for the British film industry, Film on Four support, in return for a shorter delay between cinema release and TV transmission, proved of vital help.
Rose was awarded the gold medal of the Royal Television Society in 1988, and continued to be involved with films after his departure from Channel 4 two years later.
In 1952 he married Valerie Edwards, with whom he had three sons, Simon, Paul and Matthew, and three daughters, Charlotte, Mandy and Jemima. After Valerie’s death in 1966 he married Sarah Reid. They had a daughter, Tamsin, and he adopted Sarah’s children, Nicholas and Venetia. The marriage came to an end in 1980, and they divorced in 1988. In 2001 he married Karin Bamborough.
Jemima died in 1991. He is survived by Karin, his other children, six granddaughters, three grandsons, and a great-granddaughter.
Philip Purser
Jeremy Isaacs writes: David Rose, in charge of fiction, was good for Channel 4, for film-lovers, for British film. We had no studios: everything was made for us on location, on film. Some lively figures in film urged me to make movies to be seen in the cinema, before being shown on TV. I said we’d try.
David was perfectly happy with that, and got to work. But the first proposal he put to me, as chief executive, was for a daily soap opera: Phil Redmond’s Brookside, made in Liverpool. It eventually ran for 21 years, until 2003.
His main thrust was Film on Four. With £6m to spend a year, he commissioned 20 feature-length films at £300,000 a piece, and film-makers were to supplement that if they could. David, backed by Karin Bamborough, Walter Donohue and, later, Peter Ansorge chose every one.
On our first night on air, we screened David Cook’s Walter, directed by Stephen Frears. Ian McKellen, as the young man with learning difficulties who kept pigeons, sticks in the memory still.
As we went on, we made fewer films at higher budgets. Hanif Kureishi’s My Beautiful Laundrette (1985), directed by Stephen Frears, cost £650,000 and was worth every penny. Bill Douglas, author of the trilogy My Childhood, My Ain Folk, My Way Home, realised a lifetime’s ambition in filming the Tolpuddle martyrs in Comrades (1986). That cost £2m.
David cast his net wide: he was for realism, but did not rule out fantasy. He preferred the present, but allowed the past. He wanted films that said something to us, with an edge, or from an unexpected perspective. He worked with mainstream directors, and also with Peter Greenaway and Terence Davies.
Like Channel 4 itself, he rejected insularity. Of 150 films for Film on Four, 20 were from abroad. We helped along Theo Angelopoulos and Andrei Tarkovsky. Wim Wenders’ Paris, Texas (1984), in which we had a major stake, won the Palme d’Or at Cannes. In 1987 David deservedly collected for us the first Roberto Rossellini award for services to European cinema.
David was quiet, persistent, totally without vanity, confident in his judgment, eclectic in his range. He never stopped. On his 90th birthday he showed a film he’d made that year. In front of a fixed camera, he danced.
• David Edward Rose, television producer and executive, born 22 November 1924; died 26 January 2017
In the early 1990s, visitors to Iran would have been struck by the country’s lack of vibrant colour. Eight years of war, on top of a revolutionary ideology that regarded individual expression as frivolous, had obliterated it from the streets. The palette of the public space was dominated by dark shades of brown, grey and navy blue, interspersed with the prominent black chadors of the women.
In most religions, white is the colour of purity, cleanliness and virtue. But in Iran, it was black that symbolised righteousness. This was especially ironic given that, before the revolution, devout Iranian women would wear light, flowery chadors to step out of their homes. Where did the colour go in Iran? And where did black come from?
These questions motivated my own staged photographs of unusually colourful chadors in 2005, as I sought to investigate the demise of the flowery ones worn by my aunt and grandmother as I was growing up in pre-revolution Iran.
I found some answers in David Batchelor’s book Chromophobia, in which the British artist traces the trajectory of highbrow hostility to colour in western thought. Colour, he writes, is regarded either as the “property of some foreign body, usually the feminine, the oriental, the primitive, the infantile, the vulgar, the queer or the pathological … or relegated to the superficial, the supplementary, the inessential or the cosmetic”.
Take out the oriental and the primitive and this could easily be a manifesto for revolutionary Islamic Iran in its early years, where the only colour in the country was found in the murals memorialising revolutionary heroes and martyrs of the war with neighbouring Iraq.
So I was thrilled to hear about Batchelor’s solo show in Tehran’s Ab-Anbar Gallery, a stone’s throw from Revolution Avenue. Spanning the past 20 years, 120 works offer Tehranis a taste of his fascination with colour. First, there were what he calls his doodles: an installation of 90 drawings, creating a wild collage of colours.
In a room opposite, Batchelor’s “poured” paintings show how the doodles develop into larger pieces. Between these and his glowsticks – digitally tuned colour LEDs held in geometric steel frames – he plays around with rigid ideas of two and three dimensions. His paintings all include a black rectangle at the bottom channelling a plinth, while his light installations are hung flat to be looked at as canvasses.
The poured paintings can take six months to dry, resulting in a wonder of random texturing as the surface of the thick paint contracts. The resulting patterns are a vibrant testament to the existence of underlying order in chaos.
Curator Leyla Fakhr had two things in mind when she decided to bring Batchelor’s work here: “Tehran is devoid of colour during the day, with pollution and dust everywhere, but at night it is brought to life with an increasing amount of synthetic colours.” She is pointing to the recent craze for neon lights decorating the streets and buildings of Tehran. “I also felt an exhibition that was purely concerned with colour and abstraction would be interesting in a place accustomed to imbuing meaning to everything.”
Between the four rooms of art, a chandelier hangs in the stairwell. It was made in situ using a local found object, the aftabeh, a plastic pitcher used for personal hygiene in Iranian toilets. a number of them have been strung upside-down together, their spouts and handles lit up from within, providing a cascade of translucent pinks and blues.
In the cafe upstairs, a prominent Iranian artist and an art critic are debating this chandelier. Was it exhibiting orientalist, or at least touristic, tendencies? Given the cultural connotations of this object for the Iranian viewer, can it exist purely as form without any meaning being attached? Found object yes, but why a foul object? Or does such a reaction merely highlight the sensitivities of Iranians, pained at being seen as backward? One could almost hear the subliminal question: which is more modern – a washed arse or a wiped arse?
In fact Batchelor, who calls himself a “colour activist”, didn’t know what an aftabeh was for when he spotted one in the Isfahan bazaar on his research trip last year. But once he found out, he took pleasure in using it so humorously. “I always look for the least valued elements,” he says. “I think one of the purposes of art throughout the 20th century was to draw attention to that which is overlooked.” His choice of colours were limited to what was available. “I wanted yellows and greens but the supplier said pinks and blues were this year’s colours.”
The truth is that little is ever stripped of wider meaning in Iran. Iranians are programmed to read between the lines, to find coded meaning in the nooks and crannies of life. This is, after all, the land of Hafez and Rumi, the mystic poets revered as seers because of their mastery of multi-layered conceits. The feverish fondness for conceptual art in recent decades in Iran reflects the need to pose oblique questions, in many instances by drawing attention to what is disregarded. In this, Iranians feel their art to be as modern as any on offer.
Batchelor, on the other hand, is clear where his preoccupation with colour comes from: it’s a reaction to its absence in the aftermath of conceptual art in the west, which he thinks favours form above all else. The 61-year-old Dundonian believes there’s a longstanding aversion towards colour that is manifested in the reverence for, and the supremacy of, white in western modernist writings.
“There is a kind of white that repels everything that is inferior to it,” he says, “and that is almost everything. There is a kind of white that is not created by bleach but that itself is bleach.” As an Iranian, I find it hard not to see this as a metaphor for what is happening in western politics today. And its parallel here at home, in the venerated superiority of black.
Could this suspicion of colour have permeated Iranian lives through our exposure to the west? Beneath the hijab, the Iranian woman is an ardent follower of the diktats of western fashion forecasters. Wearing colour is left to the women of the diminishing nomadic tribes unless it is sashayed on a catwalk in Paris. The urbane and the modern would rather not be associated with their rich heritage of colour, neither in attire nor in their décor choices.
The western aversion to colour can be attributed to a post-Enlightenment need for reason and secular agency in societies that eventually came to champion the freedom apparently signified by white. In Iran, black became the colour for dissolving impulses of individuality in the group. If lack of colour is an affectation of western modernity, how did it become emblematic of rejecting western values here in Iran?
Batchelor is aware of the complex relationship western religions have with colour, from Catholicism’s love of it to puritanical rejection. But he consciously avoids commenting on social issues, which he feels are articulated more elegantly elsewhere. How will Iranian audiences react to his work? I hear a young visitor looking at the bidet chandelier in glee and saying: “I never realised the aftabeh could be so classy.”
The screenwriter and producer of Zero Dark Thirty are reuniting for a miniseries that will cover the 2016 US election.
Mark Boal, who won the best original screenplay Oscar for The Hurt Locker, will write the political drama as an 8-to-10-hour event series, with Megan Ellison producing. Ellison’s credits also include Foxcatcher, American Hustle and Her.
Hugo Lindgren, the acting editor of the Hollywood Reporter, will reportedly assemble a team of investigative journalists to help Boal research the project.
Boal recently collaborated again with Zero Dark Thirty director Kathryn Bigelow for an untitled drama about the 1967 Detroit riot. The film, which will be released this summer, stars John Boyega and Anthony Mackie. He was also involved in the second season of Serial and is also set to write the script for videogame adaptation Uncharted.
Ellison’s upcoming films include the Alexander Payne comedy Downsizing and Paul Thomas Anderson’s new drama with Daniel Day-Lewis.
A Catholic comprehensive school has rebutted claims that it cancelled a visit by a bestselling children’s author at the last minute because she is transgender, saying that teachers had been misinformed about the suitability of her latest book for pre-teens.
Last week, Juno Dawson said St Mary’s Catholic high school in Preston had pulled its invitation 48 hours before she was due to speak as part of a promotional tour for her new novel, Margot & Me. The book tells the story of Fliss, who discovers the wartime journal of her grandmother Margot while staying with her in south Wales.
Dawson told the Guardian: “I asked [my publisher] why they had cancelled and there was an awkward silence. They said the subject matter was deemed inappropriate.” The author, whose previous books include the acclaimed This Book Is Gay, added: “Margot & Me is probably my tamest book. It is a nice family story set in the second world war.”
Prior to the event, which was scheduled for 8 February, the school had heavily publicised the author’s visit with Twitter posts, leaflets and letters to parents. Though Dawson had initially accepted that the cancellation was “just one of those things”, she became incensed after Jake Hope, a consultant who had arranged the visit, phoned the school and was told by the teacher who arranged the event that senior staff had rescinded the invite.
“I cannot see how it is the book,” Dawson said. “I can only assume that they meant I am not appropriate.”
However, head teacher Martin Reynolds said that the school had been told by the publisher that Margot & Me would be suitable for 11-year-olds. “We have to go on what the publisher tells us, as the books often haven’t been published when we book visits,” he said.
When the school’s literacy coordinator read a copy of Margot & Me before the event and “realised it contains some complex themes, including castration and ‘corrective’ rape [intended to change someone’s sexuality]”, a team including Reynolds decided staff should spend more time considering the book. “We felt that our parents would want us to exercise caution and to study the themes more carefully before inviting an author to speak,” he said.
In an interview with Buzzfeed, Hope alleged that when he called the school, offers of future alternative events with Dawson were all rebuffed. But Reynolds said that because Dawson was currently on a book tour, “we knew there would be no flexibility in changing the date of Juno’s visit so were forced to postpone it”.
“We do think the issues faced by the transgender community are extremely relevant and important for all young people to understand. However, on this occasion we felt the issues raised in Juno’s book weren’t appropriate to the audience of young students we had identified.”
In the past, St Mary’s has hosted talks by Sir Ian McKellen on behalf of LGBTQ organisation Stonewall and has been commended for its work on raising awareness in this area. Reynolds said the school was in the process of organising a trans role model to visit the students with Stonewall. “We agree with Juno that trans people should be treated as unique individuals and would never ban a visit on the grounds she has suggested,” he said.
After Dawson was interviewed by Buzzfeed about the incident, Reynolds said that students had been upset by the suggestion that the school was transphobic: “The ones who have contacted me directly over the half-term holiday are really upset that Juno has totally misunderstood our school. Some of our LGB and Q students feel that Juno does not know the great work done in school with Stonewall over three years … If Juno ever came to meet us she would understand why we feel so sad.”
Student Failenn Molloy, who works on the school’s Equalities Group, published a complaint in response to Buzzfeed’s article, writing: “Juno’s gender identity was an important part of her visit because it teaches our pupils that it’s OK to be transgender and that you can be just as successful as Juno, regardless of your sexuality or gender identity … I’m quite disappointed in Juno herself for assuming this was an attack on her gender. If she had given the school a chance to rearrange with her, she would have found that our school is welcoming of people of all sexualities, genders, religions, race and ability.”
A spokesperson for Stonewall said it worked with a number of faith schools to provide training, support and speakers on LGBTQ issues. “We don’t know why this visit was cancelled but we would encourage the school to welcome Juno Dawson back to talk to students about her experience as a successful author.”
The killing of the tsar and his family bothered the American writer Mary McCarthy, even in her quasi-Stalinist phase, when she was impressed against her better judgment by communist apparatchiks. Whenever she got a bit drunk, she wrote in “My Confession” in 1953, she would bring up the killing of the tsar’s children and look hopefully, but in vain, for “a trace of scruple or compassion”. The next morning, for some reason, she would feel “bitterly ashamed”. I found this confession bewildering when I first read it many years ago. Why the shame? But then, on the other hand, why such a strong reaction to the killing of the tsar’s family in the first place, when death came to so many bystanders as well as participants in the course of Russia’s revolution and civil war?
Many others have shared McCarthy’s reaction, but not Robert Service, whose unsentimental account of the last 16 months of Nicholas’s life seems to have been motivated largely by a desire to dispel the myths that have gathered around the killings, and to get the facts of the matter established once and for all. It is a non-partisan account, which gives Nicholas good marks for stoicism and lack of pretension in adversity, but bad marks for conservative rigidity as a ruler. Service reproaches him for not rethinking his conservatism once he had leisure to do so, which is a lot to ask under the circumstances. What struck me most on the basis of Service’s account was the contrast between the tsar’s strong sense of sense of duty while he was in the job, and the ease with which he resigned it and his subsequent lack of regret.
It is hard to imagine a ruler with less apparent interest in power than Nicholas. He was a patriot, attached particularly to Russia’s military tradition, to Orthodoxy, and to what he imagined as the goodness and devotion of Russia’s simple people, as opposed to its elites, who had lost touch with Russia’s traditional values. During the first world war, he spent a lot of time out at army headquarters in Mogilev, hoping to encourage the war effort by his presence. Back in Saint Petersburg, then called Petrograd, his wife Alexandra and elder daughters did their bit by nursing the wounded. Nicholas was in Mogilev in March 1917 when emissaries from the Duma – the parliament he had unwillingly set up after the 1905 revolution – came to report alarming signs of elite disaffection and popular unrest and suggest that abdication was the answer. To their great surprise, Nicholas put up no resistance. Perhaps, as Alexandra always thought, it would have been a different matter if she had been around to strengthen his backbone. As it was, his only stipulation was that he would not abdicate in favour of his young son Alexei, the legal heir, because the boy’s haemophilia and delicate health meant that he should not be separated from his family. So he abdicated in favour of his brother, Grand Duke Mikhail, which was in fact unconstitutional, and likely to cause no end of trouble. But Mikhail immediately declined the throne, thus paving the way for a provisional government without a monarch, set up, initially, by the Duma leaders and their associates.
Nicholas, a man of ascetic tastes who was comfortable in old clothes, proved remark­ably amenable as a quasi-prisoner
The provisional government, trying to rule in tandem with a much more radical Petrograd Soviet, which had strong support in the urban working class and the army, was concerned to keep Nicholas out of the limelight and also out of harm’s way. At first he and the family were confined under house arrest to his palace in Tsarskoe Selo outside Petrograd; then, in August, they were moved for their own safety to the relatively quiet and non-radical Tobolsk in western Siberia, where they remained for some months after the Bolshevik takeover (the “October Revolution”) in November. In April 1918, when Tobolsk became unsecure, they were moved to Ekaterinburg in the Urals. Nicholas, a man of ascetic tastes who liked outdoor work and was comfortable in old clothes when not in uniform, proved remarkably polite, reasonable, friendly and amenable as a quasi-prisoner. He came to like Alexander Kerensky, the socialist who took over leadership of the provisional government from the liberals in the middle of 1917, remarking to a confidant: “That’s a person who could have been useful to me; it’s a pity that I didn’t know him earlier.” He and his household were looked after by Kerensky’s appointees, and he had many interesting conversations with one of them, a working-class socialist who had served time in tsarist prisons. Nicholas even got on reasonably well with the overseer appointed by the Bolsheviks, Vasily Yakovlev, a revolutionary known for his participation in bank expropriations before the revolution. Alexandra, on the other hand, treated all their overseers and guardians with resentful hauteur and was widely disliked by them.
A man more given than Nicholas to grievance might have found much to begrudge in his situation after the February revolution. In the first place, his and Alexandra’s royal relatives in the British and German monarchies proved strikingly indifferent to their fate, despite occasionally making noises of concern. In the second place, Russia’s monarchists, whose presumed plots to rescue the Tsar were a continuing concern for the ruling revolutionaries of February and October, never managed to mount anything like a serious rescue attempt. For the leaders of the White Armies – the Bolsheviks’ opponents in the civil war that broke out in the spring of 1918 – restoration of the monarchy was not a rallying cry. Even Nicholas himself seemed not to be a partisan of absolute monarchy, though Alexandra remained one. Musing on what might have happened had Alexei assumed the throne, Nicholas suggested that he might well have accepted limitations to autocracy, since he would have been free of the constraints of Nicholas’s own coronation oath to “guard intact the form of government that I received from my father and to hand it on as such to my successor”.
One of Service’s contributions to the extensive literature on the last Russian tsar is the information he has dug up on Nicholas’s reading after his abdication. Evidently not much of a reader before – since Tolstoy’s War and Peace was new to him – Nicholas now made up for lost time and devoured an eclectic range of Russian and foreign literature and historical works, including Dmitri Merezhkovski’s Silver Age novels and even the work of satirist Mikhail Saltykov-Shchedrin, as well as Chekhov and Conan Doyle, whose stories he read aloud to his family in the evenings. Alexandra did not share his new taste for literature, preferring a diet of ultra-conservative devotional works. As for the children, four daughters ranging in age from 16 to 21 at the time of Nicholas’s abdication, and the 12-year-old tsarevitch, they receive little attention from Service. They all caught measles in the winter of 1917, resulting apparently in their heads being shaved. The girls still had short hair when they died.
The tsar’s hopes of being ultimately allowed to live quietly in Russia as a private citizen were never realistic
Nicholas’s hopes of being ultimately allowed to live quietly in Russia as a private citizen were never realistic, but the circumstances became immeasurably worse after their move to Ekaterinburg. The Bolsheviks in charge there were wild men, more militantly inclined towards the former royal family than the party leaders in Moscow, and the military situation had sharply deteriorated. The Czech legion’s prisoners of war were supposed to be evacuated across Russia to Vladivostok to sail round the world to fight with the allies back in Europe, but they started taking over stations on the Trans-Siberian railway in June 1918 and joining forces with Russian anti-Bolsheviks. The transfer to Ekaterinburg was itself perilous, with Nicholas and his party unable to be unloaded at the main station because of a hostile crowd gathered there. The original intention of the Bolshevik leaders in Moscow had been to hold a show trial of Nicholas in that city, but the idea had to be abandoned as it became clear that Ekaterinburg was likely to be occupied by anti-Bolshevik forces. The decision to dispose of the Romanovs was batted back and forth through telegraph exchanges with Moscow that took three days to get through, but there was little real doubt about the outcome. On 17 July 1918, the former tsar and his whole family, plus retainers and the family doctor, were shot in the cellar of the Ipatiev house in Ekaterinburg, where they had been held under house arrest. The bodies were then taken into the forest, burned, and dropped down a mine shaft. A week later, the city fell to the Czechs.
Whether Moscow authorised or ordered the killing in advance, or simply accepted a fait accompli, has been a point of controversy. Service dismisses as whitewashing suggestions that it was purely an initiative of the Ekaterinburg Bolsheviks. The motivation for the killings is easy to see, since it would have constituted a major threat to Bolshevik security had Nicholas or any of his children fallen into White hands. The Bolsheviks announced Nicholas’s execution, but remained silent about the fate of the rest of the family, leaving popular rumours about the miraculous survival of at least one offspring to multiply. It was a trivial issue, according to Trotsky at his most studiedly callous, responding to the inquiries of a German diplomat: “This is of completely no interest to me. I cannot take interest in the life of an individual Russian citizen.”
Discovery in the Urals of what were alleged to be Romanov remains and disputes about their authenticity caused great excitement in early post-Soviet Russia; in 2000, the Moscow patriarch declared the whole family to be “passion bearers” (a lower category of suffering than that of martyrs, earlier bestowed by the Russian Church in emigration). Now, with the centenary of the Russian Revolution, the issue may become contentious again. Putin’s government, along with Russian public opinion, is still conflicted in its evaluation of the revolution, and by implication the execution of the Romanov family. Once a communist by conviction, by his own account, and still an admirer of many aspects of socialism and the Soviet system, Putin himself has problems with it. He told a conference in Stavropol last year that “the elimination and shooting of the tsar’s family, including the children”, was a (or perhaps “the” – Russian is ambiguous on this) “most outrageous example” of the repressions that characterised Soviet rule from the very beginning. Unlike McCarthy, Putin could see there might be reasonable grounds for revolutionaries to kill the family, since “one had to root out, so to speak, possible heirs”. But why did they kill Dr Botkin? Why did they kill the servants, people in general of proletarian origin – for what? His answer – implying a foundational sin at the basis of the Soviet regime that Putin in other respects still cherishes – was “in order to hide a crime”.
• The Last of the Tsars is published by Macmillan. To order a copy for £20.99 (RRP £25) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only.
Riccardo Chailly has had a recording contract with Decca for 30 years, which has followed him through his association with four orchestras. It began with the Berlin Radio Symphony in the 1980s, then 16 years with the Royal Concertgebouw in Amsterdam, the Leipzig Gewandhaus from 2005 to 2015, and now the orchestra at La Scala, Milan, where he took over formally as music director in January. Chailly no doubt intends to raise the profile of the orchestra in the concert hall as well as in the opera house itself. His first recording with them makes a neat bridge between the two, as well as signalling his determination to promote a much wider range of Italian music than the house has programmed in recent years.
The 16 orchestral pieces included here are taken from operas that received their premieres in Milan; all except the two by Leoncavallo were first performed at La Scala. Chailly has resisted the temptation to present them chronologically, preferring to vary and contrast the mood of the numbers, but it’s still a fascinating forage through almost 100 years of Italian music, from the earliest, the overture to Rossini’s La Pietra del Paragone, first performed in 1812 (and later reused to begin his better known Tancredi), up to Puccini’s Madama Butterfly of 1904. The intermezzo from Butterfly is one of only four pieces on the disc that could be described as well known, together with the overture to Bellini’s Norma, the intermezzo from Leoncavallo’s Pagliacci and the Dance of the Hours from Ponchielli’s La Gioconda.
Even the two Verdi items that begin the disc are not particularly familiar: the overture to Un Giorno di Regno (listed here under the original title of the libretto, Il Finto Stanislao) and the prelude to the third-act trio of I Lombardi. Other rarities include the overture to Donizetti’s Ugo, Conte di Parigi, Giordano’s looming prelude to the second act of his Siberia (with its motto from the Song of the Volga Boatmen), first performed in 1903, more Leoncavallo (two preludes from I Medici of 1893), and the majestic music that opens Boïto’s Mefistofele.
There’s nothing very substantial, but it all makes a fine workout for the Filarmonica della Scala. There may be room for improvement here and there in the orchestra, but the recording suggests that most sections are already in fine shape – the brass is particularly impressive in the Boïto extract.
Chailly has always been a superb Puccini conductor, and predictably it’s the music of the last decades of the 19th century that shows him at his best here. The Rossini and Donizetti are, of course, neat and tidy enough, but they don’t hold the attention in the way that his performances of Giordano, Ponchielli and Leoncavallo do.
The heat death theory of the end of the universe suggests that trillions of years of entropy will leave the cosmos a vast, frozen wasteland of indistinguishable particles. Nights like tonight augur a similar fate for pop culture: a Brits Week charity show by the latest white retro blues and soul singer who has been handed instant chart success by winning the Brits critics’ choice award, a vehicle for major labels to garner this year’s formulaic high-priority cash cow a facade of critical respect. Sussex soulman Rag’n’Bone Man – AKA Rory Graham – can’t even say that his biker pub doorman image is breaking any moulds. He resembles the Russian nesting doll that the Brits pulled Jack Garratt out of last year.
He takes to the stage solo wearing a colour-blindness test of a T-shirt because “someone spilled rum” on his favoured stagewear, and delivers a stark, impassioned blues take on bluegrass standard Reuben’s Train. Rag’n’Bone Man has a fantastic voice but, in truth, Graham’s gritted-honey vocals smack as much of Michael Bolton as Ben E King, and he rarely belts it out as powerfully as you might expect.
As his band kick in on Wolves and Ego they leave him muted and restrained, grooving gently around the stage to pedestrian mainstream soul and living up to the latter’s line “I know my gospel but I ain’t a preacher”. It’s his base tone – straight-bat retro-soul spirituals with occasional lounge rap interludes, stripped of the modernist crackles of his records and sung in a style that The X Factor has beaten into a generation as the way that good singers sing. Be a Man could have fallen off Phil Collins’ But Seriously…, while Guilty is Clapton’s idea of the blues. Graham seems genuinely proud to have co-written the unremarkable Your Way with the unremarkable Jamie Lidell, or serial-killer suicide lament Lay My Body Down with Dan Smith from Bastille. It all adds up to a new faux-leftfield cult of the ordinary. No wonder Elton’s already been on the blower.
When Graham strips the band away and sings “miserable songs” accompanied by haunting piano, though, he stops looking like he’s about to be knocked out of The Voice in the battle rounds and his voice billows, wielded with a mastery that eluded other recent critics’ choices such as Garrett, Smith and that one in the hat. Odetta is a touching ode to a friend’s newborn and his acoustic take on new single Skin received such hushed attention you could hear someone’s knuckles crack. His big, brooding hit Human, a steamy gospel Hulk of a tune, impresses too, but as Graham’s debut album outsells the rest of the Top 20 put together, it comes with a background whimper of some distant, more interesting musical galaxy disintegrating.
Warning: this article contains spoilers.
Taboo is like one of those hidden stages at Glastonbury where you turn up expecting Mumford and Sons and instead get three circus performers riding naked on a bear while a wrinkled man, equally naked, shouts polemical blank verse over his cousin’s remix of the Prodigy played entirely on squeezebox. It’s different, it’s challenging, and in a way not easy to put a finger on, it will change you.
Tom Hardy’s story of voodoo, incest and trade regulation on the Canadian west coast has been variously described as thrilling, visceral and, on our own pages, “completely batshit”. All of this helps make Taboo something distinctive – not an easy task in today’s saturated TV landscape. At the same time, it’s probably best enjoyed without truly trying to understand it. If you start quibbling about the sex magick James Delaney can conjure up from the grate of his fireplace, it might have an adverse effect. You could even end up developing the haggard countenance of the frustrate-watcher.
Frustrate-watching is a new concept invented by me to cash in on the popularity of the phrase “hate-watching” which is something I have never actually done (unless you count the news when Iain Duncan Smith is on). Frustrate-watching, however, I am intimately familiar with. It is the process of persisting with a TV programme even though it frustrates you. This can happen for a number of reasons, but a couple pop up more frequently and I believe they are linked.
When Samuel Taylor Coleridge coined the term “suspension of disbelief” he may well have had a naked Tom Hardy in mind. Writing in his Biographia Literaria, the notorious opiate consumer was reflecting on his hit collab with hill rambler William Wordsworth, the Lyrical Ballads, and trying to explain what made them so great. [Admittedly this was complicated by the fact that the two had by this point fallen out and Coleridge was most keen to point out how his former mucker was completely deluded.] The deal, as Coleridge recalled it, was that Wordsworth would write poems that sought to bring out the transcendental glory of the everyday; the wonder of a humble flower, that kind of thing. Coleridge, meanwhile, was to write about spooky, supernatural stuff, but try to make the reader believe it was real. In other words, he would force them to suspend their disbelief.
Nowadays it often feels like the manufacture of disbelief is the obligation not of the creator but the audience. Rare is the serial where, if I’m going to stay engaged, I don’t have to pretend certain things didn’t happen. I love Mr Robot, for example, but the revelation halfway through season two that the protagonist has actually been in prison the entire time was a difficult one to take. Line of Duty has some of the best scenes in TV, but when it turned out a massive conspiracy had been buried by the actions of one gangly copper? That was tough. And these are just the dramas I liked.
To forcibly suspend disbelief so you can stick with a show is frustrate-watching. Also frustrate-watching is continuing with a series in anticipation of some resolution. I kept with Mad Men for seven seasons in the hope that I would eventually find out what Don Draper wanted (and the fact no one can truly know what goes on inside another’s head was not the answer I was seeking). I went all the way through the first season of Better Call Saul on the verge of falling asleep but confident that at some point there’d be some gonzo action (it never came). And I hear even Walking Dead fans have got bored of years of endless wandering punctuated only by moments of desensitizing ultraviolence.
One of the things people tend to say about television shows is ‘oh it gets good in the second season’. In the case of Boardwalk Empire, I heard it said about every single season of its five-year run. If you’re talking about the average American drama, that means watching at least 13 hours of the moving image before you actually enjoy yourself. And you’re never getting that time back.
Frustrate-watching is, to my mind, a consequence of the “golden age of TV”. Such is the sheer number of dramas that there is real pressure on the discerning viewer to choose wisely (Emily Nussbaum wrote something typically great about this with relation to Better Call Saul). What’s more, there’s pressure on producers to make their show stand out, hence the moments of sex, violence or dramatic contrivance that might prompt conversation. As for the delaying of gratification, that’s a given if your interest is in carrying an audience over to a second/third/94th season.
Frustrate-watching is something viewers will have to live with, but I would ask creators to consider once again wild man Coleridge and his maxim. The most successful show in the world right now, and perhaps in the medium’s history, is certainly full of extreme moments which prompt shock and outrage that keep people talking. But Game of Thrones is successful less because of these moments and more because they make you believe that not only dragons are real, but so are the machinations of houses who sleep with family members and keep wolves for pets. If old Samuel were alive today, he would binge on it I’m sure.
House of Cards
When House of Cards began, everyone knew what it was; an entertainingly barmy game of cat and mouse between an obnoxious reporter and a slippery career politician with a tendency to deliver fourth-wall asides in the style of Foghorn Leghorn reciting beatnik-era tone poetry. It wasn’t great, but it was good. And then the politician shoved the reporter under a train.
In that moment, with that shove, the show traded all its tension and sexual intrigue for an instant of gimmicky spectacle, and it never recovered. I’ve sat through three post-shove series now, in the desperate hope that someone will give Frank Underwood an opponent worthy of Zoe Barnes, but it never happens. Instead we’re left with endless footage of him twisting in the wind, filling time by engaging in mind-numbing machinations or impassively staring at his wife until one of them snogs a security guard for something to do. House of Cards hasn’t been good for years. Why do I keep watching? Clearly, I must hate myself. Stuart Heritage
Mr RobotI love almost everything about Sam Esmail’s hacker drama. The fantastic cast, the twisty plot that nods to the paranoid state we are living in, the endless pop culture references. I even love that the second series pretty much disappeared down a David Lynch wormhole, riffing on everything from Twin Peaks to Lost Highway. But Mr Robot also drives me up the wall.
It’s that nagging feeling that Esmail might not truly be in control of the material, that he’s keeping so many plates spinning he’ll inevitably drop one or two. Plus the fact that he loves to tease. After two series, we still don’t know whether the creepy Tyrell Wellick really exists, what game hacker and double agent White Rose is playing or even what Elliot Alderson’s ultimate aim is. No one who sat through all six seasons of Lost will ever feel entirely comfortable watching a drama with an unreliable narrator – and they don’t come much more unreliable than Elliot, who has dissociative identity disorder. Sarah Hughes
The SimpsonsIt’s hard to believe this now, but The Simpsons used to be incredible. Overflowing with charm, intelligence and a wit that managed to be both inclusive and waspish. To call it the best cartoon on TV was to damn it with faint praise. It was the best thing on telly. Simpsons-ologists often point to the episode in which Principal Skinner’s identity theft is revealed to the town as the start of a plummet in quality. But it’s not that simple.
The Simpsons carried on being very good for a long time after that so most people, myself included, carried on watching. But its aura of infallibility was pierced. Quality control, once breached, became dangerously elastic. And the overall effect has been incremental decline, like driving on a tyre with a slow puncture. You didn’t notice it happening until eventually, you were bumping sadly along the road, getting nowhere fast. But enough’s enough. I can’t understand why they’re still making The Simpsons. So I can’t be bothered to watch it either. Phil Harrison
Girls
Over the years, I’ve met many Hannah Horvaths: highly strung, unreliable, self-absorbed and convinced they’re only a blog post away from a six-figure book deal. But I too can sometimes succumb to a bit of millennial navel-gazing, and perhaps that’s why I still watch Girls. Back in 2012, it was comforting to see a group of young women who, like myself, didn’t have it all figured out. Girls also presented serious topics with sincerity. Hannah’s mental health issues were nuanced, Marnie’s struggle for fame was bittersweet, Jessa was gorgeous but tortured and Shoshanna was the unlikely glue keeping the friends together through it all: abortions, STDs, breakups, joblessness, OCD – the whole Gen Y shebang. However, as the series progressed, the Girls’ friendships did quite the opposite. Everyone seemed locked in a cycle of pain, whinging and self-sabotage, without a SATC-style unity to bring them back together. Despite this, I hold out hope that there could be a bigger message about my generation, or friendship, still to come. Hannah J Davies
FortitudeWe had the most expensive British drama in history. We had a cast boasting Michael Gambon, Christopher Eccleston, Sofie Gråbøl and the mighty Stanley Tucci. And we had a setting – oh, that setting – of the howling, desolately beautiful Norwegian tundra. It looked phenomenal. It felt stifling. And its brutal mystery kept you guessing right until … wasps.
That’s right. The whole thing – the murders, the truly shocking violence – was because of some wasps. Really old, frozen wasps, which made people act like zombies to breed further wasps. In the second series, which is showing now, the atmosphere and setting remain. But can it recover? Probably not. If it can live up to even half its promise, though, and give a more satisfying ending than “some wasps did it”, it will be worth the slog. Luke Holland
Prison Break
Like Homeland or Broadchurch, Prison Break really should have ended after one series. Its first outing, while hardly The Wire, was a watchable piece of primetime TV, with a strong premise – man has to break his wrongly incarcerated brother out of a state penitentiary before he gets the chair – some decent set pieces and a satisfying conclusion (decade-old spoiler alert: they break out). Great job, everyone. Now pack up and move on.
Not quite. Prison Break ran for three more seasons. In the second, the brothers were on the run, then in the third the brother who originally did the prison-breaking was locked up in a completely different prison, with the other brother on the outside this time. By season four the plot had become utterly incoherent – something about a dead mum who wasn’t dead after all, a memory card with some compromising information on it and a dead girlfriend who also wasn’t dead after all, despite the fact that we had seen her severed head in a box, Seven-style, one season earlier.
And like a complete sap, I watched every second. But I certainly won’t be tuning in when the show returns for a surprise fifth season in April, that’s for sur … ah, who am I kidding – I’m going to watch every last second, dead mums, USB sticks and all. Welcome back, Prison Break, you terrible, terrible show. Gwilym Mumford
Last year it stole the show with a haunting, politically charged ballad about Stalin’s deportation of Crimean Tatars. Now Ukraine risks “nul points” for its hosting of the Eurovision song contest after almost all the top organisers of the 2017 event quit.
The European Broadcasting Union (EBU) has warned Ukraine’s public broadcaster UA:PBC to “stick to the timeline” following the abrupt resignation last week of 21 members of the company’s senior Eurovision team, including two executive producers, the event manager and head of security.
The setback is the latest to afflict this year’s competition after reports Ukraine was having serious difficulty financing it and complaints from the Orthodox church that the choice of venue for the opening ceremony, a cathedral dating back to the 11th century, amounted to blasphemy.
While it thanked the departing team members for their work so far, the EBU, which founded the popular pan–European contest in 1956, said every effort must now be made to ensure the show goes on as planned in Kiev in May despite what it described as “staff changes”.
The broadcasting group said: “We have reiterated the importance of a speedy and efficient implementation of the plans already agreed … and that we stick to the timeline established and approved by the reference group to ensure a successful contest.”
The 2017 show’s executive producers, Victoria Romanova and Oleksandr Kharebin, and most of their team stepped down last Friday, saying in a letter published later by the Strana news site that they felt sidelined by a new event coordinator and worried by a lack of transparency in decision-making.
“Hereby we, the Eurovision team, for whom this contest has become not only part of our work but also part of our life, officially announced that we are leaving this project and stopping work on the preparation for the contest,” the signatories said.
They said preparations on the show had stopped for almost two months after Pavlo Hrytsak, the deputy head of Ukrainian state television, was appointed official event coordinator late last year – a move they said had “completely blocked” their work.
“We do not want to comment on the managerial skills, project management principles, communication skills, professional achievements, as well as the values and goals of management,” the letter continued.
Hrytsak insisted the organisers were coordinating closely with the EBU and that “everything is going on according to plan”. Ukraine’s prime minister, Volodymyr Groysman, has also insisted preparations were being conducted “properly” and “absolutely nothing threatens Eurovision”.
Ukraine won the right to stage the 62nd Eurovision contest after last year’s unexpected victory by Jamala, an ethnic Tatar from Crimea, with the controversial ballad 1944, about the wartime deportations of Tatars under Joseph Stalin.
The result annoyed Moscow but cheered many Ukrainians following Russia’s annexation of Crimea in 2014 and the subsequent fighting in the Donbass region of eastern Ukraine. Jamala said before the contest – one of the most politicised in years – that her song also referred to more recent events in the peninsula.
Zurab Alasania, the head of Ukrainian state TV and radio, resigned last year citing a funding crisis so severe it threatened UA:PBC’s ability to host the 2017 show, while the Orthodox church has sharply criticised the choice of the historic St Sophia’s cathedral complex, a Unesco world heritage site, for the opening ceremony.
Tapestries, leather armchairs, candelabras, sculpted woodwork and figures of the apostles: Book Capella, a newly built, gothic-inspired library in central St Petersburg, is complete with all the expected luxuries of an ancient athenaeum – and a price tag to match.
To enjoy the library’s collection and atmosphere, you have to pay a ticket of just under £100 for a four-hour reading session – a markedly different experience to the free access readers can enjoy in Russia’s public libraries.
Book Capella’s 5,000-odd book collection is entirely published by St Petersburg-based publishing house Alfaret – also the owner and initiator of the project. The individual books have an average price of between 30,000 and 50,000 rubles, the equivalent of £400 to £700. All the books date from between the 16th and 19th centuries and are displayed in thematic rooms with names including The Book of Wars and The Book of Travels. Its motto is a phrase from Jorge Luis Borges: “I have always imagined paradise as a library.”
“One hundred pounds per visit is certainly not a low price, but it is less expensive than tickets to the opera or ballet,” said Irina Khoteshova, the project director. “People aren’t really surprised by the price itself. They are surprised that it’s the price for a visit to a library.”
While it may not be the only library in the world to charge for entry – the London Library charges between £255 and £510 for annual membership (and up to £22,000 to a lifetime subscription), while the Portico library in Manchester lifetime subscription will set one back £4,667 (discounted to £3,271 for those over 60) – Book Capella is comparatively exorbitant. Its “Book Apostle” yearly card costs 230,000 rubles (£3,209), while the “Preacher’s Book Apostle”, a lifetime subscription, can cost up to 5m rubles (£69,000).
Khoteshova said that the library, which opened in December, is mainly used by book collectors, historians and scientists – as well as businesspeople, who want to have meetings in a quiet space that also serves as an exotic change from their usual haunts.
When asked how academics, who earn less than the average per capita income in Russia, would afford such a pricey ticket, she said: “Some of the young professionals who recently graduated from universities and are just beginning their serious research would not be able to afford the membership, we understand that. But academics, professors, professionals who lead and create a historical transmission often become buyers of our books.”
Some of the library’s most expensive items include facsimiles of manuscript atlases of the main provinces of the Russian empire in the 1760s, as well as a complete edition of the pre-revolutionary Russian Niva magazines, which are much sought-after collectibles and hunted by private collectors around the world.
Founded in 2006, Alfaret mainly publishes traditional Russian and western history and art history books in luxury editions of around 100 copies, as well as print-on-demand titles; the kind of books that those who are more interested in power than culture would seek, for the purpose of putting on show.
“Book Capella is not a library in the traditional sense, and it is not a museum, although elements of the museum are presented. It’s also not the bookstore, although you can buy our books here. [It] is a new way for people to communicate with rare books,” Khoteshova said. However, while Book Capella proclaims its motto to be Borges’s heavenly vision, the space appears to be less library, and something more akin to a luxury showroom.
The actor Harrison Ford has emerged unscathed following another mid-air mishap.
Ford, 74, was told to land his single-engine plane on a runway at John Wayne Airport in Orange County, California, on Monday, but he mistakenly landed it on a parallel taxiway, passing over an American Airlines jet holding nearby, NBC reported.
“Was that airliner meant to be underneath me?” Ford is heard asking air traffic controllers in a recording.
American Airlines Flight 1456, with 110 passengers and six crew, departed safely for Dallas a few minutes later.
Ford’s publicist, Ina Treciokas, declined to comment.
Federal Aviation Administration spokesman Ian Gregor couldn’t confirm that Ford was piloting the Aviat Husky that overflew the Boeing 737, but he said the pilot received and had read back the proper landing instructions.
The FAA is investigating, Gregor said.
In March 2015, Ford was seriously injured when his second world war-era trainer crashed on a Los Angeles golf course when it lost power shortly after takeoff. The actor was praised for his ingenuity in avoiding more populated areas.
In 1999, Ford crash-landed his helicopter during a training flight in which he and an instructor were practising auto rotations in Ventura County, northwest of Los Angeles; neither of them was hurt.
An in another incident, Ford was flying a Beechcraft Bonanza in 2000 when wind shear forced him to make an emergency landing at Lincoln Municipal Airport in Nebraska. Ford and his passenger were uninjured when the plane clipped the runway.
The actor is best known for his role as maverick pilot Han Solo in the Star Wars series. While shooting Star Wars: The Force Awakens in London in June 2014, the actor was involved in an onset accident in which he broke his leg. The production company was later fined $2m after claims were upheld that the hydraulic door which injured Ford could have killed him.
The success of Asif Kapadia’s films Senna and Amy, which dispensed with talking heads in favour of generating narrative from archive footage alone, has opened up a new avenue for documentary. It is one along which the makers of Beuys proceed with some uncertainty.
They have at their disposal an abundance of material. After all, the groundbreaking German sculptor and performance artist Joseph Beuys, who died in 1986, was no shrinking violet. He staged numerous art happenings, such as the 1965 work How to Explain Paintings to a Dead Hare, for which he caked his entire head in honey and gold leaf and cradled the eponymous creature while whispering lovingly in its ear. Nine years later, an animal took a more active part when Beuys was placed in a room in New York with a coyote for several days for I Like America and America Likes Me. He had only a shepherd’s crook to defend himself once the animal started ripping at his protective felt covering.
If there is one element of Beuys’s work that even the uninitiated will know about, it is his use of felt. He wrapped a piano in it, filled galleries with rolls of the stuff and included it in The Pack, which shows a Volkswagen camper-van disgorging 24 sleds, each one bearing a survival kit of belts, felt, torches and tallow. These materials were drawn from Beuys’s personal mythology. He claimed to have been shot out of the sky during the war (he called it being “shot into shape”) and rescued by Tartars on the Crimean front who smeared his body in fat and swaddled him in felt. Parts of the tale were later disputed, but it didn’t matter. The story had stuck.
He also gave lectures, made regular chatshow appearances and campaigned for the German Green party. He was willing to go wherever the money for his next project was. Fundraising in Japan for his ambitious 1982 sculpture 7,000 Oaks (where each oak tree planted in Kassel, Germany, was accompanied by a corresponding hunk of basalt stone standing sentry beside it), he became the face of a whisky campaign, Lost in Translation-style.
It’s an embarrassment of riches for a documentary maker, with Beuys himself as charismatic as any star. (It’s no coincidence that the first line we hear him say is: “It’s just like Hollywood.”) He’s all eyes and teeth and cheekbones; when he grins impishly, as he often does, his gnashers fill the screen. And he has the hopped-up twitchiness of a classic character actor (think Walton Goggins or a young Bruce Dern), the sort who gets killed off in the third reel for being impetuous and trigger-happy.
Beuys, the film, is good at showing how Beuys, the artist, marketed himself. When it came to branding he was way ahead of the game, always eager to throw his hat in the ring for publicity. Not literally, of course. That hat ( made of felt, of course) was so much a part of his image that he doodled a picture of it alongside his signature when doling out autographs, and even made a piece two years before his death entitled Must One Really Wear a Hat as a German Artist Nowadays?
Director Andres Veiel and his editors Stephan Krumbiegel and Olaf Voigtländer originally planned a film that would be only 30% archival; they estimate that the final figure is closer to 95%. That there are any new interviews here at all may betray some anxiety about the picture’s higgledy-piggledy format, which has the camera zooming into individual frames on giant contact sheets, with new scenes springing to life arbitrarily from each still. At another point, the style switches to photographs flicking past our eyes like pages in a book. The impression is one of bets being hedged.
Newcomers to Beuys’s work could be dazzled. Experts may well be exasperated. While the movie has plenty of noise, incident and anecdote, it is frustratingly bitty. It is also reluctant to devote much screen time to more reflective footage of Beuys or the artistic context from which he emerged. He provides so much obvious momentum that Veiel must have been wary of sacrificing that in favour of contemplation or stillness. Anyone who has stood in one of the felt-lined rooms that comprise the artist’s 1985 work Plight, however, will recall the comprehensive and intimidating hush, which is as pervasive as the dawn silence after a night’s ceaseless snowfall. Would that some of it had reached the screen.
The Sonoran desert is a piece of the American landscape that has evolved as if to edit humanity out of existence. Populated by spiked plants, poisonous insects, rattlesnakes and one of America’s few native big cats, the jaguar, its arid terrain stretches along the US-Mexican border over a total of 260,000 sq km.
Crossing this wildnerness on foot takes three to five days, and during the summer, daytime temperatures regularly exceed 40°C (104°F). The US border patrol is alleged to have retrieved 6,029 human remains from this stretch in southern Arizona since the 1990s. The bodies of thousands of others who have tried to enter the US through the desert may have been bleached away by the searing sun before they were found.
For El Mar La Mar, which premiered at the Berlin film festival this week, film-makers Joshua Bonnetta and JP Sniadecki visited this hostile environment for lengthy spells over the course of almost three years, filming the landscape, recording wildlife and talking to border rangers, aid workers and people-smugglers.
Though their project started more than a year before the American electorate was lured by the promise of a “great, great wall” on its southern border, the result is a nature-documentary-cum-film-poem that also works as a sarcastic riposte to the new president’s grand plan: how could anyone artificially design a more mercilessly efficient deathtrap than the Sonoran desert in its current form?
Sniadecki, a graduate of Harvard’s increasingly influential Sensory Ethnography Lab, says he and Bonnetta became interested in the politics of the Sonoran after a chance encounter with a border guard on a dirt track near the desert, which in turn led them to a book, The Land of Open Graves, by the anthropologist Jason De León.
The arid borderlands of Arizona have been politicised for far longer than the Trump campaign: in 1994, the US government adopted an “enforcement through deterrence” strategy that involved building fences and increasing drone surveillance in the areas around official ports of entry, such as El Paso and Tijuana, while leaving open swaths of hazardous hinterland. Of the around 1,900-mile (3,100km) border between American and Mexico, 650 miles already has some kind of barrier in place.
“It funnels people through the desert,” says Bonnetta. “The signs and policy are designed to make it seem as if migrants crossing are taking their lives into their own hands.”
“It bears much resemblance to the [refugee] crisis in the EU. The desert, much like the sea, is used to deter and in some cases erase. The policy tries to place the blame on individual volition and shift the burden of responsibility for these unfortunate tragedies.”
Bonnetta and Sniadecki recorded their interviews only on audio. They are played back over shots of brutal landscape or complete darkness, rendering the stories even more harrowing. There are tales of migrants losing their bearing after being scattered by border patrols and wandering in circles for seven days. One farmer recalls seeing a man burned black from wildfire, still walking. Two brothers break down in exhausted sobs as they explain that they had to leave behind weaker members of their group.
Using contact microphones, the pair also created a soundtrack that often consists of little more than crackled telecommunications between border patrols, the whistle of sandy gales or the eerie rustle of plants.
At a Berlin festival in which directors have this year fallen over themselves to affirm their political stance, Bonnetta and Sniadecki’s film stands out because it allows one of the most politicised terrains in the world to speak for itself.
In 1947, the Oscar for best picture went to Gentleman’s Agreement, starring Gregory Peck as the campaigning journalist on a mission. Awards for best director also went to Elia Kazan and best supporting actress to Celeste Holm. At first glance, it looks like a rather worthy “issue movie” of the 40s, the sort of film that the Academy felt it had to honour. Yet Gentleman’s Agreement is still a riveting movie, intriguing, a little exasperating, alternately naive and very sharp, fascinating for what it puts in and leaves out.
It is about the antisemitism of prosperous postwar America and the insidious way that Jews were excluded from upscale social clubs, vacation resorts and of course jobs. There were no official bans, just a nod and a wink and a “gentleman’s agreement” between conservative-minded Wasp gentiles that they know the sort of people they want to associate with. It is the sort of everyday prejudice that Groucho Marx elegantly knocked back with his joke about not wanting to join a club that would have him as a member.
Not that explicit bigoted language was in any way uncommon. The movie is adapted by Moss Hart from the bestseller by the popular author Laura Z Hobson, which she was moved to write from outrage at the way a congressman had called the columnist Walter Winchell a “kike” without anyone raising a murmur.
Hobson was Jewish; born Laura Kean Zametkin, she changed her name to get a job as a magazine secretary – a decision that occurs in the film, interestingly transformed. Hart was Jewish, the movie’s producer Darryl Zanuck was a Methodist, Elia Kazan came from a Greek Orthodox background and Peck was raised Catholic. The personal, authorial religious intelligence of this film is Hobson’s.
Hollywood was then rather reticent about mentioning Judaism explicitly, and maybe not much less reticent now. Perhaps one of the few Hollywood movies before this to mention the J-word so prominently was Charlie Chaplin’s The Great Dictator in 1940. And the high concept of the film is presented so earnestly, so guilelessly, and with such lack of self-awareness or pre-emptive cynicism that you can’t help but smile at the dramatic moment when the idea is revealed.
Peck plays Phil Green, a charming and personable widower with a young son, Tommy (Dean Stockwell); he is a journalist of some repute who has come to New York to take up a job writing for a liberal magazine. The proprietor, John Minify, (Albert Dekker) introduces Philip to his elegant, beautiful if somewhat brittle niece, Kathy (Dorothy McGuire), who has a feature idea – how about writing about antisemitism?
Phil agonises fruitlessly about how to write this article. He pores over dull statistics and decides that’s an arid, futile approach. (And here’s the first question a modern audience might ask – wait! What statistics, exactly? Those statistics are interesting … aren’t they?) Phil agonises about knowing what it’s like to be a Jew and face prejudice. He broods about his Jewish friend Dave Goldman (John Garfield), who is in the army: “What does Dave think?”
Finally, after much discussion with his elderly, concerned mother (a typecast Anne Revere), Phil has a eureka moment. Of course! That’s it! Just as he once wrote Orwellian reportage about being a miner or an Okie – he would be a Jew! He would pass himself off as a Jew and apply for jobs, club memberships, hotel bookings, etc. In a state of writerly ecstasy he almost shouts: “And I’ve got a title for it – I Was Jewish For Six Months!”
It’s one of the most inadvertently hilarious lines in cinema. The whole setup could in fact be a delicious satirical comedy. But of course it’s deadly serious. Phil finds nasty little incidents of antisemitism everywhere: his doorman objects to his putting a Jewish name on his letterbox in the apartment building (and so advertising that the building takes Jews) and by gossiping with janitors spreads the word about him being Jewish and so indirectly subjects Phil’s son to bigoted taunts at school. Phil discovers that his secretary, Miss Wales, is Jewish and has changed her name to get a job (like Hobson) but also that she is a self-hating Jew who in her heart believes in her own inferiority. The magazine’s smart, witty art director, Anne Dettrey (Celeste Holm), becomes a pal and admires his plan to expose antisemitism, but like Miss Wales and most of the people in the office does not realise that he is not actually a Jew.
And here is where the strange thing happens. Phil insists on complete immersion in his Jewish identity, a kind of method-acting imposture (although in fact it is not clear quite why he needs this uncompromising approach – why not just pose as Jewish for his phoney club applications and visits and leave it there?). He gets engaged to Kathy, who is in on his secret, but she becomes uneasy about how her extended family and high-class social circle will react. Liberal idealist Phil in turn becomes enraged by her tightlipped hesitation and her reluctance to let his Jewish pal Dave and his family rent a cottage near these haughty Wasps. It’s almost as if Kathy suspects Phil of actually becoming “Jewish” – that is humourless, sanctimonious, touchy.
Weirdly, the film it reminds me of is Preston Sturges’s Sullivan’s Travels, about the idealistic young film director John L Sullivan, who yearns to make a serious drama about poverty and so resolves to live (for a short while) as a poor person – to the dismay of his butler, who suspects that poverty, like leprosy, is somehow contagious.
And Judaism and Jewishness are almost entirely absent. It is an important (and cogent) part of the film’s liberalism to insist on the Jew and Gentile being actually indistinguishable in human terms. But there is no Jewish household visible, no Jewish culture, no menorah, no synagogue. Dave is – importantly – away from home trying to find a place to rent. Phil and his fiancée meet a famous Jewish scientist, Fred Liebermann (Sam Jaffe), at a cocktail party, and he is an exotic European intellectual, transparently modelled on Albert Einstein, who talks about Zionism and the Palestinian homeland. But really that’s it. And the movie is very apolitical, apart from slighting references to such forgotten extreme-right figures as Theodore G Bilbo and Gerald LK Smith.
The elephant in the room is of course the Holocaust. It is not mentioned, despite having happened so recently. Phil earnestly tells his wide-eyed little boy about how antisemitism is a kind of religious prejudice like anti-Catholicism, and perhaps it’s understandable he doesn’t want to burden his son with the subject of the Holocaust. But he never mentions it to his mother or colleagues. This could be because he and the film can’t quite absorb the awful paradox of the US having gone to war to defeat Hitler and American troops having liberated a number of camps – yet still nurturing vile antisemites at home. Putting Dave in an army uniform is the film’s coded way of trying to say all this. The Jewish best friend in army uniform is the film’s silent rhetoric.
Yet Gentleman’s Agreement isn’t all coy. There is a great scene at the end where Dave calmly confronts Kathy about her failure to speak up when one of her smart dinner party guests made a joke about a “kike”. Tearful Kathy had expected Dave to congratulate her on her conservative-minded liberalism simply because she felt bad about it afterwards. Coolly, with a hint of steel, Dave insists she spell out what the joke was and how she failed to make a stand – because every time some nasty crack passes unchallenged, the forces of bigotry gather strength for bigger plans. It’s a great moment for Garfield, and still a rousing scene. For all its faults, Gentleman’s Agreement is a tough, high-minded, interesting member of the best picture club.
John Michie’s Leontes has a bad case of confirmation bias. In his personal echo chamber, he hears only what he wants to hear. Sporting a clean-cut suit and golden tie, this avuncular figure sees himself as the reasonable type; used to having his own way, yes, but genial with it. So if he says his wife, Hermione, has been having it off with his best friend, Polixenes – well, he’s obviously in the right and everyone else must be deluded.
It’s hard to know whether the feeble smile that crosses his lips whenever he is challenged is a sign of patronising indulgence or a mark of vulnerability. When he shoves his hands into his pockets and lollops casually about the stage, is he displaying smug self-confidence or concealing his doubts? The degree to which it is the latter makes the first-half tragedy and second-half reconciliation all the more moving.
The nobleman Camillo becomes Camilla (Janet Kumah) in Max Webster’s rich and rewarding production, which means that all the forces lined up against Leontes are female. He may believe he is right, but Frances Grey’s Hermione knows she is. Needing neither histrionics nor rhetoric, she speaks with the authority of a woman with truth on her side. Her plain-talking honesty nearly cracks him. Like Camilla before her, Maureen Beattie’s Paulina takes on Leontes with equal conviction, unnerving him with the clarity of common sense.
How lucky we are in 2017 not to have leaders whose warped sense of the truth creates such chaos and division.
In archetypal terms, it’s a head-and-heart battle between the masculine and feminine, a conflict mirrored by Shakespeare in the switch from the courtly order of urban Sicily to the birds-and-bees freedom of rustic Bohemia. It’s a transition made apparent by designer Fly Davis as the enclosed vertical and horizontal lines of the first section give way to the open expanse of the second, ravishingly lit by Lee Curran, with jumble-sale costumes and pound-shop trinkets replacing Christmas jumpers and low-level coffee tables.
Webster has taken it one step further by commissioning a Scots translation from James Robertson to give a boost of linguistic and theatrical energy to the Bohemian scenes, as if we’ve shifted from orderly Edinburgh to raucous Fife. Played with relish by Jimmy Chisholm as Autolycus, John Stahl as the Old Shepherd and Fiona Wood as Perdita, it is as vigorous as it is poetic.
Like the Lyceum’s recent Picnic at Hanging Rock, this is an exploration of the line between the civilised and the wild – between a boy in a bear costume and a genuine growling beast (Will Robertson is excellent at both).
All this makes extra sense of Alasdair Macrae’s superb electro-Celtic score. The musicians, who start out like modern-day courtly entertainers confined to a tiny sound booth, are gradually liberated, as if music itself is a tool for revolutionary change.
For the queer black and brown women who find themselves fractured into racist or sexualized stereotypes in the media, look no further than your internet browser for the antidote to bad representation.
Queer women of color who are writers and film-makers are circumventing Hollywood gatekeepers to tell their own stories online. In the web shows Brown Girls and 195 Lewis, queer women of color are the norm. They support and uplift one another. They think deeply and love fiercely. They thrive in social enclaves where community, discourse and art are the tools of resistance.
And white people don’t exist.
Brown Girls centers on the close friendship between Leila, a South Asian Muslim writer, and Patricia, a black musician, both of whom are navigating sex and relationships among a group of queer people of color living in Chicago.
In the first episode, a perpetually frazzled Leila (Nabila Hossain) wakes up to her aunty’s relentless scolding over the phone: was she sleeping in? Is she going to mosque later for Eid? Was she just having sex? Leila pretends she’s at work and says she must go before the goras overreact to hearing her speak “Muslim words”. She hangs up in exasperation as her on-again-off-again lover Miranda rolls over to greet her. Still in her first shaky steps of being queer, Leila awkwardly deflects when Miranda initiates the dreaded “what are we” conversation, in effect ending their casual hookups.
The show’s creator, Fatimah Asghar, said she had funneled her personal experiences as a queer Muslim woman into Leila, unpicking the threads of family, religion and desire tangled within her own sexual identity.
The show fleshes out the contours of Leila’s queerness, wading in the infinite desires that dwell in the spectrum between gay and straight. After Leila and Miranda’s fallout, the unabashedly frank Patricia (Sonia Denis) recalls a time when Miranda stalked Leila to the home of Mark, her older married boss whom she was also sleeping with.
“Queerness is complicated,” Asghar said. “Some people would see that as a contradiction, but it’s not. Leila could operate on both desires and still be queer.”
Meanwhile, Patricia practices an emotionally distant, Tinder-based approach to sex positivity to combat feelings of abandonment after her boyfriend leaves the country. Patricia now swears by her mantra “single girls club forever”, rebuffing her mother’s suggestion to reconnect with her ex and calling an Uber at 4am for a one-night stand.
Leila and Patricia’s interweaving storylines unfold through a series of intimate conversations with friends, family members, lovers and coworkers that exude a palpable authenticity.
Asghar said she wrote Brown Girls as a “love letter” to her best friend and as a restorative for her circle of artists and activists to laugh with. “I wanted to create something that’s not just about our struggle, but also celebrated the joys of what it means to be a person of color,” she said.
Asghar said she hoped increased representation translated not only into self-recognition for queer audiences of color but also opportunities for aspiring film-makers of color to get paid for their work.
The director Sam Bailey said making a web show allowed for creative freedom to parse out the nuances of marginalized identities that are often flattened in the mainstream. “Web series for me have always been an equalizer where people of color can share their stories and that levels the playing field a little,” she said. “There are more of our stories being told on the web than there are on TV.”
Of the paltry 47 LGBT characters in 126 major studio film releases in 2015, 34 were white, according to Glaad’s annual report. LGBT characters on primetime TV and streaming services have been steadily increasing, but the racial gap persists.
Bailey emphasized that Brown Girls did not represent all women of color, but rather portrayed a slice of life. “I’m not interested in [Brown Girls] being the voice of queer women of color. I’m interested in adding to that voice,” she said. “So often we get pigeonholed into one way of being. [Characters] don’t get the room to be complex and messy but also lovely – all the things that white characters always get to be.”
While the critically acclaimed Insecure (which started out as a cult web series) and the Oscar-nominated Moonlight depict young black women and black gay men through a POC lens, stories of queer women of color remain curiously absent from the media landscape.
When queer women of color do appear on screen, they seem to be plucked from their communities and dropped into a fantasy of diverse coexistence that may not reflect the lived realities of those who form bonds based on shared politics and experiences. Perhaps not since The L Word has a show about queer women and transgender people depicted the melange of friends and lovers known as “chosen family”.
The L Word inspired the creators of 195 Lewis to write their own version based on the queer black women they met after moving to Brooklyn’s Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood, said Rae Leone Allen, a co-writer and actor.
“There’s a lot of beautiful black women [in Bed-Stuy] and that’s my weakness,” she said. “They have natural hair, they read books – we were very inspired by the space and running into a lot of interesting things, like polyamory.”
The dramedy lays bare the anxieties, stigmas and competing attractions that arise in the open relationship of Yuri (Allen) and Camille (Sirita Wright) without making a hypersexualized spectacle out of non-monogamy. Director Chanelle Aponte Pearson used the phrase “radical honesty” to describe the tightroped vulnerability involved in telling a partner about wanting to be romantically involved with more than one person.
“We have plenty of examples of how non-monogamy is done very poorly, all the cheating and lying and how from an entertainment perspective, that’s the source of drama,” she said. “We don’t have a blueprint for how this is done responsibly.”
The complications of Yuri and Camille’s relationship develop in the embrace of a close-knit community of queer black women, who dance together under sensual pink light, host femme of color brunches and pepper flirtations with flakes of critical theory.
“For me, this is a project about black women loving each other,” Allen said. “We’re black, we’re queer, we’re women – we all have a lot of luggage, and that comes out in these relationships.”
While the series was originally intended for online release, the showrunners are also looking for a larger platform following a strong premiere at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in December. “Knowing that our community wants content like this, the internet is the most accessible way to share it,” Aponte Pearson said. “But there was something really special about getting folks in a room and having a shared experience of the show, so we want to build on that.”
“Nobody can tell our stories like we can tell our stories,” Allen said. “My perspective is particular, I come from a certain place, my ancestors are powerful, and we have important things to say.”
This year is the 20th anniversary of Oasis’s Be Here Now, an album ripe for sympathetic reappraisal, if only because any record that attracts so much rancour can’t be all bad. Along with marking the moment Oasis’s creative well ran dry, it turned out to be Britpop’s endgame, sweeping the whole genre into the dustbin. And that’s how many remember Britpop today: a backward-looking bubble of we-are-the-champions triumphalism. But it wasn’t always the embarrassing uncle that nobody wants to acknowledge. Before the fatal hubris of the Cool Britannia phase, which generated an NME article proclaiming Noel Gallagher the most influential person in Britain, Britpop’s bands were clever and observant, or at least interesting. The Auteurs were all three. Leader Luke Haines hated many things, not least the classifying of his arty indie band under the Britpop umbrella. In fairness to him, the Auteurs’ 1993 debut, New Wave, shared more DNA with groups like the House of Love than Oasis, but unfortunately for Haines the Auteurs simply happened to be in the right (or wrong) place just as Britpop gained momentum. New Wave’s loveliest track, Starstruck, is shot through with the bittersweet Kinks influence that was a Britpop cornerstone, while its lyric – a fictitious memoir of a child star whose career “took its first nosedive” when he was five – is as Brit as it comes.
Saint Etienne were fellow purveyors of small details and fleeting impressions. “Toast is burned and the coffee’s cold / And you leave all the post ’cos it’s nothing but bills again” are You’re in a Bad Way’s opening lines, establishing the quiet despair that counterpoints the song’s cascading 60s arrangement. “Home from work, put the TV on / Get your kicks watching Bruce on the old Generation Game,” it continues – you get the idea. Singer Sarah Cracknell, one of Britpop’s great voices, airily sketches a picture of everyday drabness before the chorus bursts into anthemic life. In Saint Etienne’s world, there was nothing that couldn’t be sorted out by a visit to the local caff (never “café”), and that was probably where the song’s protagonist ended up, regaining the will to live over a cup of tea at a Formica table. As with Starstruck, this 1993 single had the retro flavourings that would come to typify Britpop, but existed in a different universe to the genre’s TFI Friday bullishness.
To appreciate how outre Suede first seemed, watch their performance of Animal Nitrate at the 1993 Brit awards. Six months earlier, before they’d released so much as a single, Suede had featured on a Melody Maker front cover under the headline “The best new band in Britain”. But that kind of overhyping was standard music-press flummery – what got them out of the indie hinterland was their three minutes at the Brits. “Who was  that?” was the reaction of both the TV audience and much of the crowd at the actual event, as well it might – even if that night’s other acts hadn’t been textbook-staid, Suede would still have been a glam hurricane. Introduced with a sardonic: “Please welcome the already legendary Suede” (at that point, their career consisted of two singles and that Melody Maker cover), they spent their slot burning themselves into the ears and retinas of everyone watching. Bernard Butler’s opening riff is one of the most undeniable in pop, and Brett Anderson – pirouetting in a lace blouse as he yowled: “Like his dad / you know that he had animal nitrate in mind” – imprinted himself on those viewers hungry for something different. The song’s dark dysfunctionality complemented the band’s sleazy glamour, and a sensation was born.
Though Blur ambitiously viewed the Parklife LP as “a loosely linked concept album”, they probably hadn’t anticipated the cultural significance its title track would have. This was the song around which Britpop coalesced, giving form to what had been vague ideas about UK popular culture and turning it into the zeitgeist. It didn’t hurt that the track had a magnetism that made it fit in everywhere, from the Radio 1 breakfast show to the Evening Session to Spanish dancefloors. Phil Daniels’ key narrator role had originally been written for Damon Albarn, who found it impossible to “get into character” and suggested Daniels for the part. Daniels’ acerbic Cockney patter, coupled with the unshakeable chorus, instantly created a new archetype: the resurgent working-class young Londoner with money in his pocket. Pressing the point home further, the video offers the sight of Alex James pushing Graham Coxon in a supermarket trolley, and a recreation of the Abbey Road cover, but with the zebra crossing relocated to East London.
When a band launch their career with their best song, the only way should be down, and thus it proved, eventually. Though Oasis had a decent run of memorable early singles, none quite equalled Supersonic – hearing it now, its uncluttered perfection still startles. As a calling card, the song was incredibly effective – raw, unapologetic and burning with confidence. Though it was about Oasis’s yearning for fame, Liam Gallagher swaggered as if success were a done deal, and from that point it was a self-fulfilling prophecy. Fortuitously, it came out the same month – April 1994 – as the Parklife album, and rumblings of a north/south rivalry began almost immediately, to the advantage of both bands.
Britpop could be surprisingly malleable, as shown by this 1995 single. The Boo Radleys had the wrong hair and clothes, and had done time as shoegazers but a change of direction, and bang! – they were adopted by Britpop overlord Chris Evans, and lauded as the next shiny thing. For a tune about fundamental incompatibility in a relationship, Wake Up Boo! is insanely peppy; at the time it embodied better than any other song the thread of optimism running through the mid-90s. The band’s performance on the quintessential 90s “youth” show The Word pushes every giddy neon button.
Pulp’s breakthrough came when they stepped in as last-minute substitutes for the Stone Roses at Glastonbury in 1995. Common People was the last song of their set, and by the time it finished, the group had palpably crossed the line to bona-fide stardom. Though synonymous with Britpop, Common People has the qualities that make a song timeless: there’s Cocker’s fabulously louche delivery and the massive uplift into the chorus, obviously, but also the lyric. Addressed to a long-ago acquaintance who wanted Cocker to show her the world of “common people” in the hope that their supposed credibility would rub off, it resonates to this day.
The fourth and least remembered single from Pulp’s Different Class, Something Changed is rarely mentioned in the same breath as the game-changing first three, Common People, Sorted for E’s and Wizz and Disco 2000. As a lesson in what Pulp were about, however, it’s unsurpassable. While the first three singles set out their stall as observers of social and class mores, Something Changed is a love song, but one defined by Pulp’s intrinsic pathos and vulnerability. Cocker’s lyric considers the role that chance plays in relationships: what if he’d gone to see a film that day instead? What if she’d visited friends? When they woke that morning, they didn’t know they were about to meet: “Life could have been very different then / but something changed.” Cocker’s partiality to hammy vocal flourishes is absent; this is his most unadorned performance, and by a long way Pulp’s most moving song.
From their 1995 debut, Elastica’s finest hour starts with the sound of energetic vomiting – an aural tribute, perhaps, to the Good Mixer pub in Camden Town, where thousands of Britpop hangovers were created. It resolves into a tirade against a groupie called Drivelhead, who hangs around the Camden gig scene in the hope of bedding some lunk whose band has just been third on the bill at the Dublin Castle. “Drivelhead wears her glad-rags / She’s got her keys, money and fags / I know her mind’s made up / To get rocked,” sings leader Justine Frischmann, though by the third verse, she’s dropped the subtlety: “Drivelhead knows all the stars / Loves to suck their shining guitars / They’ve all been right up her stairs / Do you care?” Line Up isn’t just three surging minutes, it’s also a screen-grab of a moment in time, when Camden was the epicentre of a movement that felt like something big. It’s rare for a woman to sing about groupies – Delaney & Bonnie’s Groupie (Superstar) is the only other song that comes to mind - but Frischmann, who was dating Damon Albarn at the time, had presumably seen her share of Drivelheads and wanted to vent.
Mansun happened to be playing catchy guitar music at a time when every such group was labelled Britpop, but in their case it was a misnomer. Leader Paul Draper was a fan of Prince and John Barry rather than the Beatles, and his band’s 1997 debut album, Attack of the Grey Lantern, was a theatrical concept affair leagues removed from the breezy simplicity of contemporaries such as Cast and Dodgy. Along with a musical vision, Draper had a strong grasp of melody, yielding an album engaging enough to hit No 1. Wide Open Space was one of its singles, and – compelling and hugely anthemic – as close to Britpop as the band ever got. One got the impression that Draper had written it just to prove he could – the paranoia at its centre (“I’m in a wide open space / it’s freezing”) marked it as an outlier.
What Philip Pullman describes as an “equel” – a story that extends the His Dark Materials trilogy with a complementary narrative – has become the fashion for continuing entertainment mega-franchises aimed at an initial audience of children.
George Lucas’s original three Star Wars films have been expanded backwards, forwards and sideways, while JK Rowling’s stage play Harry Potter and the Cursed Child – soon heading for Broadway after breaking box-office records in the West End of London – fills in some of the long gap between the boy wizard’s farewell to Hogwarts Academy and the enrolment of his children in the school.
From the sparse details released so far, it seems that Pullman’s newly announced The Book of Dust trilogy – the first volume of which will appear on 19 October – will similarly explore the childhood of his heroine, Lyra Belacqua, before readers met her at Jordan College, Oxford, in the first His Dark Materials book, Northern Lights (known in the US as The Golden Compass).
Pullman and Rowling’s solutions to a common literary dilemma – balancing an audience’s desire for more of the same with a writer’s desire to try something different – continue a long synchronicity between the two authors. The latest example is the introduction of dramatist Jack Thorne, who (with Rowling and John Tiffany) wrote Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, and is currently adapting His Dark Materials for a BBC television version.
Thorne’s double duty feels appropriate because these narratives, rivals for the minds of recent generations of young readers, have constantly overlapped. Pullman and Rowling both began publishing their serial novels shortly before the millennium, and rapidly gained an adult audience as well. Each story involved an 11-year-old child who, in a supernatural universe existing alongside our own, is required to risk their life in order to defeat evil forces.
Although Harry is explicitly a quasi-Christ figure and Lyra a sort of Eve, both stories have been criticised by Christians for, in Rowling’s case, supposedly endorsing witchcraft and, as Pullman stood charged, for making the evil empire against which Lyra fights a specifically religious force, complete with a name – the Magisterium – that was historically applied to Roman Catholicism.
Although Pullman’s attack on the Vatican proved prophetic – as news stories of the last two decades increasingly showed, a percentage of the church’s priests have indeed been a grievous threat to children – one of the fascinations of The Book of Dust will be whether Pullman makes the metaphor broader. The suppression of dissent and enforcement of orthodoxy that the Magisterium represents are certainly still to be found in the Roman church, but also in the fundamentalist branches of American Christianity and Islam. Ideological crackdowns are to be found as well in the UK and US in political and academic institutions on a spectrum from right to left. Without letting the popes off the hook, Pullman might usefully hang others beside them.
The writer’s longstanding interest in science also seems likely to come through in the new trilogy’s promised exploration of the origins and meanings of “dust”. In His Dark Materials, the Magisterium believes this ambiguous substance represents original sin – but it could clearly provide biological or ecological matter, in the areas of Hawking and Dawkins, in the new books.
In narrative terms, Pullman’s biggest challenge will be to negotiate the fact that readers of the initial trilogy will already know – or, as it may turn out, think they know – the solution to various mysteries in Lyra’s childhood, including her real parentage. Any appearance of Lord Asriel, her “guardian”, or Marisa Coulter, her mother, will trail future-story alongside any back-story that Pullman fills in.
He is, though, too subtle a writer not to have spotted that problem and, as Rowling and Thorne showed in Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, the filling in of gaps can create new resonances in known characters and storylines. Alongside the already guaranteed reappearance of Lyra, fans will also hope for plotting involving Roger Parslow, a child who crucially disappears early in His Dark Materials, and Will Parry, Lyra’s friend, who has his own back-story opacities involving his father.
Ideally, a prequel, sequel or “equel” to an adored story should resemble a party at which those present include some people you already know and love, but also many fascinating newcomers to whom we are thrilled to be introduced. Pullman’s track record suggests that he will understand this and that The Book Of Dust will show that – as in Harry Potter and the Cursed Child and Star Wars: Rogue One – the best way to go forward with a beloved franchise is to shift sideways.
The Twitter war raging between Piers Morgan and JK Rowling appears to have reached its zenith with the Harry Potter author clocking up a notable victory against her social media nemesis.
Morgan appeared to score a spectacular own goal in his Twitter confrontation with Rowling on Tuesday, criticising a flattering description of the author that it transpired he had written.
The two high-profile figures share an enthusiasm for tweeting and have been embroiled in a public sparring match on the platform since Sunday, when Rowling wrote that Morgan “being told to fuck off on live TV [was] exactly as satisfying” as she had imagined. He called her “superior, dismissive and arrogant”; she called him a “celebrity toady”.
On Tuesday, Valentine’s Day, Rowling tweeted a screenshot of a flattering description of her as an “intensely” private, successful author who has encouraged children “to read, feel inspired and be creative”.
“Just been sent this! Could the writer let me know who he is! I’d love to thank him! #Valentines” she tweeted.
Just been sent this! Could the writer let me know who he is? I'd love to thank him! #Valentines pic.twitter.com/OQtbxPD6AL
The text noted Rowling’s commercial success, personal wealth and “squillions of awards … So Ms Rowling definitely matters.
“She would hate to be called a celebrity and guards her private life intensely so she doesn’t play any part of the celebrity game … But by encouraging children to read, feel inspired and be creative, she has had a greater impact on the world than [many other celebrities].”
Morgan seized on Rowling’s tweet, identifying it as “priceless #humblebrag BS”. A “humblebrag” is defined as “an ostensibly modest or self-deprecating statement whose actual purpose is to draw attention to something of which one is proud”.
Priceless #humblebrag BS. Nobody plays the celebrity game more abusively or ruthlessly than you, Ms 'Intensely Private Billionaire'. https://t.co/5ysnfefa3d
“Nobody plays the celebrity game more abusively or ruthlessly than you, Ms ‘Intensely Private Billionaire’,” Morgan wrote.
Twitter users delighted in noting that Morgan himself was the author of the description, part of his March 2010 list of “the 100 British celebrities who really matter”.
Morgan had placed Rowling at 97.
After a BuzzFeed reporter tweeted that Morgan “didn’t realise” he had written the quote (and that it was the best day of the reporter’s life), Morgan said he was merely questioning his own past judgment of which British celebrities really mattered.
“Relax, quarter-wit, I knew what it was. Just surprised I put her as high as 97th.”
Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my god. He doesn't realise. This is the best day of my life. pic.twitter.com/fl0lFPHXf5
Relax, quarter-wit, I knew what it was. Just surprised I put her as high as 97th. https://t.co/HCzx4Ius4E
Rowling had not publicly responded but was assumed by the Guardian to be wordlessly punching the air at her computer.
Morgan went on to share, several times, a YouGov survey that said the British public vastly preferred Rowling over him, commenting variously: “Who wants to win the popular vote these days, anyway?” and “Says YouGov, who predicted wins for Remain & Hillary.”
He later retweeted a tweet comparing his row with Rowling to “North Korea playing Iran at football. Devil’s own job knowing who to cheer for.”
Have @piersmorgan and @jk_rowling finished yet? It's like North Korea playing Iran at football. Devil's own job knowing who to cheer for.
For the 25th anniversary of Corcadorca theatre company, Enda Walsh returns to Cork and reunites with director Pat Kiernan, with whom he created his first major play, Disco Pigs. Eileen Walsh – who appeared with a then unknown Cillian Murphy in that breakthrough – stars in this new, site-specific work alongside her sister, Catherine Walsh.
There is an undeniable sense of an event as the audience gathers inside a recently decommissioned prison. Upstairs, we are presented with a series of sculptural and sound installations, creating an eerie sense of lives frozen in time. Children’s toys, photographs, iced cakes and blobs of molten pastry suggest a childhood that has been disturbed by someone or something. What looks like a brightly decorated Christmas tree turns out to be a cascade of shiny packaging for different types of medication. In other rooms, sand has silted up in the corners. Designer Owen Boss, composer Peter Power and lighting designer Michael Hurley create an unsettling mood before the audience files across a high-walled courtyard in the rain.
What follows is a heightened encounter between two characters, with elements of a psychological thriller, that plays with our sense of time. Sitting in the recreation room of a psychiatric institution, the women deliver alternating monologues about moving to a new city and crossing paths with each other. Both are called Lisa, and eventually they speak directly to one another.
As events described by the older Lisa (Catherine Walsh) are later experienced by the younger Lisa (Eileen Walsh), they realise that they are the same person, with about 10 years difference between them. Initially, they find joy and solace in being united with a version of themselves, in being completely understood. Lying with her head in the older Lisa’s lap, the younger Lisa recalls the awfulness of a childhood dominated by a mother who clearly had mental health problems.
The text leaves many narrative details unexplained and under Kiernan’s direction the piece seems deliberately porous, with silence and sound used as much as language. Walsh’s frenetic scenes of entrapment, seen in recent work such as Ballyturk and last year’s Arlington, have given way to a delicate and sombre tone. Sorrow seeps into the spaces between the two women. Although more metaphorical than literal, the prison setting suggests that Lisa has, at some stage in her life, been institutionalised.
While the premise of two embodiments of the same person may sound abstract, in the riveting performances of the Walsh sisters, it becomes real, and somehow simple. It asks whether we would, given the choice, want to know what is going to happen in our future life. The younger Lisa can’t bear the thought of this, of knowing that her future has already been mapped out and lived, while the older Lisa needs to escape from her younger self because of the painful childhood memories she awakens.
What lingers in the mind after this superbly realised production is a sense of melancholy: for the things that have happened and cannot be changed, and an intimation that what is to come might not be so very different after all. It might merely be the same.
If you spend any time in the comments section of big Facebook pages, you may have seen a purple bird headbanging in the comments.
Meet the Trash Dove, a little cartoon bird that has begun taking over Facebook. It comes from a sticker set made by the artist Syd Weiler, an Adobe Creative resident. It was initially created for the iOS10 sticker store, and was released on Facebook at the end of January.
There’s a Trash Dove for every situation: detective Trash Dove, bread enthusiast Trash Dove, business Trash Dove ...
People on Facebook use stickers the same way they use emojis, either on Messenger or in comments on posts. As noted by meme database Know Your Meme, Trash Dove exploded in popularity after it was featured alongside a dancing cat on a Thai Facebook page with millions of followers:
The bird was all over Thailand’s internet, with its rise to memedom covered by a number of news outlets. It featured in more videos:
And merged with other memes, such as #Saltbae:
All of Thailand currently. @SydWeiler #trashdoves pic.twitter.com/N5m8NT6BlN
Now, the hype is catching on elsewhere. Big Facebook sites are full of Trash Doves:
Comments on news outlets, meme pages or any big Facebook page are absolutely full of them.
And it’s even seeping into real life, with some quick turnaround Trash Dove cosplay:
น้องสู้เพื่อพี่มากค่ะ #JAPANEXPOTHAILAND2017 #trashdoves pic.twitter.com/chG0qVJkmC
Weiler, who regularly draws live for her audience on her Twitch channel, designed the doves while sketching some pigeons on her summer travels. She told the Guardian: “Pigeons are such strange birds, they have very beautiful mottled, shimmery feathers, but they waddle around and bob their heads and beg for crumbs. They’re like beautiful doves, except they eat trash.”
The pack has been available on the Apple app store since September. But on Thursday, she woke up to a slew of notifications, plus her face plastered on the websites of various news outlets in Thailand.
“I didn’t really understand it, but it seemed like a lot of people were really loving my work, and that’s a great feeling as an artist.”
Internet fame can often be a double-edged sword – viral attention seems like a great thing to have, but comes with pitfalls. While Weiler acknowledged the good parts, she also noted the darker side of the attention.
“I’m a quiet homebody – I like to sit at my desk and draw, and play video games. Overnight, I was flooded with attention, and that has only sped up for five days now,” she said. “The fan art and nice comments have been the highlight for me, but I’m amazed at how mean people can be to someone they’ve never met, because of something silly online. I didn’t ask for or sign up for any of this, but many people are blaming me, and I’ve even received some threats.”
As a result, Weiler said she has learned a lot about internet security and the importance of two-step verification on her account. “Everyone always talks about ‘going viral’ as a great thing, but I don’t think I’d wish it on another artist. It’s better to spend time building a dedicated viewer base that will support you for you.”
On a more positive note, Weiler is looking ahead to future projects, specifically one involving raccoons:
started working on a new sticker pack because I don't have enough other stuff to do! 'Trash Pandas' or 'Trash Bandits'? (they're raccoons!) pic.twitter.com/I4SONTVO4l
So, there you have it. If you see a purple bird headbanging in the comments of a Facebook post – now you know why.
pic.twitter.com/8LPcyejaFG
The alternative history genre is built on “what ifs?”. The 1931 essay collection If It Had Happened Otherwise contains one piece wondering how history might have been different had John Wilkes Booth’s gun had jammed, leaving Abraham Lincoln to enjoy a perfectly pleasant evening at the theatre; another essay, written by Winston Churchill, imagines the world following a Confederate triumph at Gettysburg. There also exists an entire subgenre conditional on an undesirable outcome to the second world war. Robert Harris’s Fatherland and Philip K Dick’s The Man in the High Castle have been filmed for television. Now Len Deighton’s SS-GB, which shows the Metropolitan police adopting a business-as-usual approach in London after Britain’s capitulation to Germany, has been turned into a five-part BBC miniseries by the Bond screenwriting duo Neal Purvis and Robert Wade.
The Berlin film festival hosted the premiere this week of the opening two episodes. Television can look stranded and exposed on a cinema screen, but it bodes well for SS-GB that the production values held up handsomely in the larger format. The decision by its director Philipp Kadelbach to prioritise its film noir potential over pulp content has helped, and there is a stylistic authority to the piece that was missing in the BBC’s most recent second world war miniseries, the ridiculous Close to the Enemy. Kadelbach throws in some piercing shocks early on: the sight of Buckingham Palace crumbling at the end of a Mall draped with swastikas, or a naked woman protecting her modesty by wrapping herself in the nearest Nazi flag.
The widowed detective Douglas Archer (Sam Riley) has the main attributes of any good, or rather not so good, noir hero. He is morally compromised, and he looks good in a hat. Its brim keeps half of his face in shadow for much of the time, which is only fitting. He may be the Met’s top man, but to keep that position he has had to look the other way as the occupying force has sunk its claws deep into the British way of life. The approach has served him well so far. He insists that the Met stays out of SS business. Asked by his son if he is in the Gestapo, he draws a negligible distinction: “The Gestapo are in the building next door.” As if it matters.
A murder investigation seems to offer a respite from any soul-searching, at least until it transpires that the victim had links to atomic research and the SS starts to take an active interest. Archer can no longer hold on to his claim that police work isn’t political. Caught between the ineffectual General Kellerman (Rainer Bock) and the intimidating SS commander Huth (Lars Eidinger), he communicates in clenched smiles and nauseated winces. An American reporter (Kate Bosworth) is spotted leaving the crime scene, while people close to Archer are revealed to have ties to the resistance. You can only turn a blind eye so many times before you forget how to see, and the question for him is when – and if – he will decide enough is enough. “My God, man, are you just going to stand there and watch?” demands an innocent man as he is dragged off to be interrogated. Good question.
Purvis and Wade bring relish to the subject of conflicted loyalties, and not only those harboured by their hero. The departmental friction among the Germans, especially the SS antipathy toward the army, is a particular source of drama. Eidinger, a fantastically haughty actor who has done fine work in Olivier Assayas’s films Clouds of Sils Maria and Personal Shopper, operates on the principle that if Ralph Fiennes in Schindler’s List and Malcolm McDowell in The Passage can have fun playing nasty Nazis, why shouldn’t he? He concludes a postmortem by tossing his cigarette in a dish that contains a dead man’s rancid liver, and later caresses the cheek of Archer’s son while speculating about young boys killing Nazi soldiers; neither of those wicked touches are in the book.
By the end of the second episode, there has been an overreliance on scenes of men talking and scowling in dimly lit rooms. It is hoped that the remaining instalments will be more oxygenated. No one is expecting the fastidious documentary realism of It Happened Here, Kevin Brownlow and Andrew Mollo’s 1965 film that represents a high-water mark in alternative history cinema, but it would be helpful to see more of the minutiae of London life under the Nazis, to get some fresh air after being confined to the corridors of power.
The shiver of hearing familiar placenames in a disturbing new context (“There’s an SS battalion at Hyde Park Corner …”) in the book has been preserved here. But unless a tableau of equivalent horror awaits further down the line, it seems a mistake to have lost that chilling moment in the book when schoolteachers and their pupils launch into a wobbly rendition of If You’re Happy and You Know It to keep their spirits up as they are carted off in SS trucks to God-knows-where.
They didn’t wear horned helmets. Nor did they drink from the skulls of their enemies or burn their dead in ships (at least not very often). In Beyond the Northlands, I wanted to dispel some of these well-worn Viking stereotypes, but I also wanted to get past the old historical debate of “raiders versus traders”.
Certainly there was plenty of raiding and trading going on, but the real Norse story is far more complex than this. It’s played out on a global stage that stretches from the fringes of North America in the west to the Russian steppes in the east, from the Arctic wastes of the north to the mighty empires of the south. And while much of what we know about the Norse comes from horrified foreign chroniclers, I wanted to explore how the world was experienced, remembered, and imagined by the Norse themselves, through the stories passed down the generations. There’s plenty of room in these tales for fantastical and outlandish characters: far-travelling heroes, man-eating trolls, poison-spewing dragons, bawdy pagan gods.
Other stories play out more like family dramas or tense political thrillers, with scheming kings, plucky heroes and feuds that escalate into bloody tragedies. So it’s fitting that the Norse legacy has proved fertile ground for writers in many genres, the inspiration for tales of sex, violence and adventure expressed in everything from rollicking historical novels to modern retellings of myths to comic books.
1. The Greenlanders by Jane SmileyGreenland was settled in around 985 by Erik the Red, who had been outlawed from Iceland for murder. The colony survived for several hundred years, but how and why it came to an end is still up for debate. This meticulously researched saga imagines life in Norse Greenland during the final decades of the settlement. I had spent several years researching this part of Norse history before I discovered this novel, including two summers exploring Norse ruins in Greenland. But reading The Greenlanders was a revelation: for the first time, I felt I understood what it might have been like to live through this society’s slow decline towards oblivion.
2. Vikings: The North Atlantic Saga edited by William Fitzhugh and Elizabeth Ward My copy of this book could be described as “well-loved”: the spine is broken, the pages are coming away from the binding, and there are dog-eared Post-it notes on almost every page. The articles are organised into several parts: Viking Homelands, Viking Raiders, Vikings in the North Atlantic, Viking America, Norse Greenland, and Viking Legacy. Packed full of colour photographs and illustrations, this book is like going to the world’s best Viking museum exhibition but without the sore feet.
3. Magnus Chase and the Sword of Summer by Rick RiordanMagnus Chase is a bolshy, homeless orphan living on the streets of Boston. He also happens to be the son of the pagan god Frey, and destined for an afterlife in Hotel Valhalla. Readers don’t have to know their Norse mythology to enjoy this first in a series of young adult novels. But those with a little more knowledge can sit back and enjoy Riordan’s sharp retelling of old tales for a new generation: my favourite detail is the sea god Njord reimagined as a hipster obsessed with microbreweries.
4. American Gods by Neil GaimanContinuing the theme of Norse myths reimagined for the modern era, American Gods is a classic in the genre. Immigrants to America have brought their gods and guardian spirits with them, but as beliefs fade, so does the power of the old gods. New deities have risen to take their place, and the scene is set for a modern-day Ragnarok – the final battle in Norse mythology, where the gods must fall. Gaiman’s new book, Norse Mythology, is out this month.
5. Echoes of Valhalla: The Afterlife of the Eddas and Sagas by Jón Karl HelgasonHot off the press, this is a highly entertaining study of how the Old Norse sagas and myths have been reinvented and adapted in comic books, plays, music and films. Highlights include a discussion of Led Zeppelin’s Immigrant Song and the development of the subgenre Viking metal (strains of which can sometimes be heard coming from my office door when I’m in need of inspiration).
6. Ohthere’s Voyages edited by Janet Bately and Anton EnglertThe title isn’t exactly catchy, but I’ve chosen this book because it’s a series of essays focusing on my favourite Norsemen. Ohthere was an Arctic explorer and trader who visited the court of King Alfred in Anglo-Saxon England at the end of the ninth century. He told the king that he lived “furthest north of all the Northmen”, and described his dealings with the people who lived even further north: the ancestors of today’s Sámi. I’ve always been drawn to Ohthere because his is the only authentic Norse voice from the ninth century, even if it is mediated through a different language (Old English). It’s also a window on to a much less familiar part of Norse history: that of trading and tribute-taking in the Arctic.
7. The Long Ships by Frans G Bengtsson translated by Michael MeyerThis is historical fiction at its finest: a classic Viking adventure story written more than 70 years ago. No mere swashbuckling romp, this a psychologically complex, unexpectedly funny work starring Orm Tostesson: stoic hero, tender lover, incurable hypochondriac. The action is set in the decades leading up to the year 1000, and spans a broad geographical area including Muslim Spain, Kievan Rus, Viking-ravaged England and Denmark on the cusp of conversion to Christianity.
8. Iceland: Its Scenes and Sagas by Sabine Baring-GouldBetter known for the hymn Onward Christian Soldiers and The Book of Were-Wolves, Baring-Gould, like many educated Victorians, harboured a passion for the Old Norse-Icelandic sagas. In 1862, at the age of 28, he journeyed across Iceland on horseback, “to examine the scenes famous in saga”. His travelogue is interspersed with typically Victorian, melodramatic retellings of the sagas. But the account is most memorable for the comical, often unflattering sketches of his travel companions, including the portly Mr Briggs, who takes “a great and comfortable” bed around Iceland with him so he doesn’t have to rough it.
9. Viking Raiders by Anne Civardi and James Graham-CampbellDespite the title, this wittily illustrated book introduces children to the Norse as more than just Viking raiders: they are also farmers, hunters, traders, explorers and settlers. This book is aimed at youngsters, but its historical accuracy makes it a wonderfully entertaining teaching aid even for academics. This is hardly surprising, given that one of the authors is James Graham-Campbell, emeritus professor of medieval archaeology at UCL.
10. Valhalla series by Peter MadsenThe Norse gods have enjoyed many reincarnations in graphic form, ever since the Mighty Thor comics of the 1960s. This is my favourite – although Asterix and the Normans was a close second. The stories closely follow the original medieval sources and are every bit as dark and viscerally funny, from Thor cross-dressing as a bride to rescue his hammer to the monstrous Fenris wolf breaking its bonds to herald Ragnarok. But there’s also a place for contemporary issues such as gender equality: in Valhalla, not all heroes are big blokes with beards.
Two years ago, Richard Mosse and his cinematographer, Trevor Tweeten, stood on a hillside on the border between Turkey and Syria and watched a battle unfolding in the Syrian town of Dabiq, 10km away. “We were able to see entire buildings on fire beneath glimmering minarets, the slow arc of mortars launched, rockets tracing the sky,” recalls Mosse. “By following the missile’s path, we could detect hidden artillery positions, and watch columns of fighters spreading out across fields, utility pickups with armoured turrets and the twin black flags of Isis.”
The military camera that enabled them to see the fighting close-up is designed to detect thermal radiation, including body heat, from a distance of over 30km. It is sanctioned as a weapon under international law because it is used for long range surveillance, and often connected to advanced weapons systems to lethally target enemy positions. It is this weapon that Mosse has adapted and used to trace the journeys of refugees and migrants from Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as Senegal and Somalia.
To enter Mosse’s vast triple-screen installation, Incoming, in the Barbican’s Curve gallery, is to be transported to a world both alien and familiar; a spectral place where all that we have seen of the refugee crisis in the media – overcrowded boats, rescue teams, refugee camps, lifeless bodies washed up on tourist beaches, discarded lifejackets – is rendered more visceral but more unreal.
In tonal monochrome, humans appear as ghostly figures, their faces glowing eerily as the camera records traces of sweat, saliva and moisture. The world around them, whether the vast undulating sea or the makeshift streets of the “Jungle” camp in Calais, teeming with displaced humanity, seems Ballardian in its relentlessly grey otherness. It is a world not so much turned upside down as inside out: the dancing flames of a campfire on a mountainside seem almost liquid, the smoke bubbling like water; the moon ripples in the sky like a circle of silk amid fabric clouds; a man douses his head in milk-like water.
It takes a while to adjust to the disorienting otherness of Incoming – the vast screens that overwhelm you with their imagery and the ominous ambient rumbles and drones created by electronic composer Ben Frost. The ghostly figures that pass before your eyes seem weighed down by gravity’s pull until you realise that the camera records everything at a slightly slowed-down speed. The narrative loosely follows the refugee trail from east to west, but Mosse is a master of constant, jarringly disruptive shifts in tone, echoing the confusion and desperation unfolding on screen.
The film moves between the dreamily meditative (a lone man praying quietly to Mecca) and the horrific (children being hauled off a rescue dingy like limp dolls). There are interludes in which you glimpse the nature of modern warfare: men fixing Hellfire missiles to a fighter plane on the USS Theodore Roosevelt in the Persian Gulf, the heat of the plane’s engine glowing like an augury of destruction.
More affecting are the moments of human drama, such as the terrible confusion of a makeshift field hospital as medics try to resuscitate hypothermic children pulled from the sea off the coast of Lesvos. In textural close-up, the camera recorded the imprints left by the heat of living hands on cold dead flesh. It is an image that lingers long afterwards, as does the sound of increasingly agitated voices as the screen falls into darkness.
Later, we witness an autopsy in close up as doctors remove the humerus of a child whose decomposing body had been washed up on a shore after weeks at sea. The bone will be ground down and used to try to identify the victim by matching the DNA with blood samples taken from survivors and people living in the region from which the victim fled.
In all of this – as with Mosse’s previous project The Enclave, which used an infrared night camera to render the war-torn landscape of the Democratic Republic of the Congo in vivid pink – one must ask the inevitable question: does an artwork that sets out to challenge documentary tropes end up aestheticising human suffering by rendering it mere spectacle? The tension between the wilfully unreal textural beauty of the film – and it is pure texture, from start to finish – and the human tragedy it records is undoubtedly part of its power, making it uncomfortable viewing in the context of an art installation.
Mosse writes in the accompanying book that he “listened carefully to the camera, to understand what it wanted to do – and then tried to reconcile that with these harsh, disparate, unpredictable and frequently tragic narratives of migration and displacement.”
The astonishing intensity of his film means he has succeeded. This, Mosse reminds us, is a human tragedy – our human tragedy. We are all implicated in its unfolding. I was left with the image of a lone man praying in the darkness, his luminous calmness echoing against the confusion and chaos around him; his aloneness, for a few moments, his sanctuary.
When most people think of a secure mental health unit, they don’t tend to picture it decorated with artwork by award-winning artists and patients.
A psychiatric ward housing patients with schizophrenia in Springfield University hospital in Tooting, London, however, has undergone an artistic renovation. The once blank, colourless walls now house a variety of pieces from artists such as the Turner Prize-winning Assemble and photographer Nick Knight as well as by the patients themselves.
Will, a resident on the Phoenix ward, who is in his 20s and a keen artist himself, says of his new environment: “I like everything about it. It makes me feel good. It’s calmed the place down and the colours are more cool. It was a privilege to work with such talented people.”
This is the first project of its kind by charity Hospital Rooms, which saw professional artists donate or work on pieces for the ward as well as host workshops for the patients to produce their own art.
The idea for the project, funded by the charity Morris Markowe League of Friends of Springfield University hospital and the Arts Council England, came from Tim A Shaw, an artist, and Niamh White, a curator, who wanted to do something after visiting a close friend on a psychiatric ward in another hospital. Shaw said of the ward: “We thought it wasn’t necessarily the right kind of environment to feel better. It was cold and clinical, and from our point of view, the colours and artwork weren’t stimulating.”
The pair got thinking about what they could do. White says: “We wanted to bring quality artists to co-produce with service users, psychiatrists and occupational therapists so we could create things that work, so we could elevate these environments and think about value.”
White and Shaw, and the artists they worked with, liaised with the hospital to make sure that everything was suitable for the environment. Everything has to be wipe-clean and robust, there can be no glass that could be broken, and no freestanding sculptures that could be thrown.
Work on redecorating the ward was done from April to July 2016, while 10 two-hour workshops with the residents and staff ran until December. Shaw and other artists introduced various techniques such as photography, printing and painting. The occupational therapists on the ward now do these and other techniques in the sessions that they run with patients. Partners also donated materials such as acrylic paints which aren’t usually available with dwindling NHS budgets.
As for the art itself, it’s generated quite a buzz on the ward – not all of it positive. One man scoffs when asked about what he thinks of a picture of flowers: “I can’t stand it.” No one seems bothered that the art elicits such negative reactions, though. Instead, it’s viewed as a development. Dr Charlotte Harrison, a consultant psychiatrist on the ward, says: “Part of the idea of the project was not just that everything look pretty but that the artwork would stimulate conversations. Sometimes with the patients we look after it’s difficult to start a conversation ... I think what the art has done is enable people to say ‘I really don’t like it’. That has opened up a conversation about what is it that makes them have those emotions.”
Dr Emma Whicher, medical director of south west London and St George’s NHS trust, meanwhile, recognises that “creativity improves wellbeing”. She explains that recovery goals, whether meaningful activity or making friends, are key for service users in managing their mental health problems. Although Whicher recognises there is no large body of evidence yet to support that, Harrison looked at the impact of multi sensory environments on emotions as part of her work for an MBA. She says: “It was quite clear that art and the environment is really important and if you have the right sensory stimulation, then it can improve how you feel.”
She adds: “I think a lot of us in the NHS are quite pressured and it’s quite easy to become stressed and anxious and when you do that, thinking becomes more concrete and you become more irritable. You go over that optimal functioning so I think having art and beautiful things to look at to challenge your senses is really important for everyone.”
It’s not just the therapeutic and aesthetic advantages that have been noticed, however. The project has been instrumental in building the self esteem of a group of people so often maligned and stigmatised by society. Harrison says: “I think there’s something great for the patients in terms of being chosen. This is a group that don’t get much really; they are stigmatised and I think they struggle with it. The self esteem boost they get from being chosen … You see that through the staff as well. It’s a real privilege.”
Join the Healthcare Professionals Network to read more pieces like this. And follow us on Twitter (@GdnHealthcare) to keep up with the latest healthcare news and views.


Everyone can empathise with Saroo. We’ve all, as children, felt that moment of panic when separated from our parents or an older sibling at a busy market or transit hub. (For me, it was a public pool.) And as adults we’ve all spent entire nights, eyes burning, click-click-clicking on the internet to find something we know we’ll eventually find, just another minute, it’s gonna be the next one, it’s gonna be the next one.
Of course for Saroo (played by Sunny Pawar as a child and Dev Patel as an adult) what’s at stake is much more life or death, but the universality of the underlying emotion, amplified to stratospheric levels, is what makes Lion such a striking film. I knew exactly what I was in for going into this picture, but still emerged a blubbery mess, humours gushing from my nasolacrimal ducts with tidal force. If this sort of intense, emotional connection isn’t what’s deserving of a little gold statue, then I don’t know what is.
Lion is a film split in two, every bit as much as its wounded lead character. The first and more urgent section is set in 1980s India, in which a five-year-old boy from a poor village ends up locked on an empty train. Days later, he’s spat out at the Kolkata railway station, alone, afraid and unable to speak the local language.
His street smarts kick in, and he avoids predators and perverts; until he’s whisked into the arms of adoptive parents, the street scenes have a patina of terror usually felt in a survival horror film. Even the relative calm of an orphanage is a waking nightmare, as Saroo is surrounded by psychologically damaged children and overtaxed social workers.
The oasis of Tasmania and wealthy parents (Nicole Kidman and David Wenham) is only temporary. He seems to accept that his earlier, happy life is simply lost, and adapts to change far better than his adopted brother, another rescued Indian street kid. But eventually the hurt will come back with full force. “I’m lost,” Dev Patel’s older Saroo admits, tasting a jalebi at a party and experiencing a rush of memories that would make Marcel Proust blush.
Saroo can’t give up on reconnecting with his family, even though government agencies have told him it’s a lost cause. (There isn’t much information to go on and no one can seem to find his village. We’ll later find out he’s mispronouncing it. He was only five!) In the age of machines and this newfangled program called Google Earth, surely he can do something.
He has the image of the station and surrounding water tower burned in his mind, and a little math offers general, albeit vast, borders within which to search. Now all he needs is determination. Of course the more focused he becomes, the more he loses sight of his girlfriend (Rooney Mara) and his mother. This relationship is the most fascinating (ready those hankies!) as he must keep his project secret; he couldn’t bear to hurt her feelings.
All of this concludes in an cavalcade of bittersweet tears (the movie wouldn’t exist otherwise), and director Garth Davis doesn’t pull his punches when the big moments come. It isn’t just schmaltz, though. It takes a clarity of vision and tremendous ingenuity to make mouse-clicking cinematic. These are extended sequences of associative imagery, a rare stretch of non-verbal moviemaking for something so populist. The second half of the movie doesn’t strike the same chord of immediacy as the first, but it nicely mirrors early-20s angst with childhood anxiety.
Lion is a standout in this year’s Oscar picks for its lump-in-the-throat heft alone. Its closest cousin is probably Manchester by the Sea, but Kenneth Lonergan’s film (also marvellous) drifts with a family so battered by tragedy it can never reconnect. Lion doesn’t give up so easily.
How can you tell when the art market is terrified? Perhaps when a leading auction house sets up its own forensic department, so it can offer art collectors the additional reassurance of a battery of scientific tests when they fork out hundreds of thousands, or even millions, on a painting that may be a masterpiece – or may be a fake. Sotheby’s New York has recently done just that. It has purchased the research company Orion Analytical, whose forensic knowledge will now be part of its own brand.
Sotheby’s has good reason to buttress its expertise with objective scientific tests on such crucial clues as the age of the materials a work of art contains. For there is a crisis in the art trade. Allegations of forgeries are proliferating in a way that is troubling to think about.
Just a week ago, it emerged that Sotheby’s is taking legal action against art dealer Mark Weiss, in the latest chapter in an eye-popping story of suspected art crime. Weiss sold Sotheby’s a painting by Frans Hals that it sold on to a US buyer – but Sotheby’s has since declared the work a fake, reimbursed the purchaser, and is taking Weiss to court. Weiss will contest the claim. The painting is said to be part of a sophisticated forgery network that also created a painting of David, supposedly done by Orazio Gentileschi on lapis lazuli, though as yet this has not been proved and the National Gallery, to whom the work had been loaned, said: “The gallery always undertakes due diligence on a work coming on loan as well as a technical examination.” Meanwhile, a painting supposedly by Lucas Cranach the Elder was seized by French authorities from an exhibition in 2016, after claims it was also a forgery. The owners of the Cranach painting also deny the forgery claims.
In January, Sotheby’s said a painting of St Jerome that it sold as a work by the great 16th-century painter Parmigianino, or someone who worked with him, is definitely a modern fake. Testing by Orion Analytical confirmed this, for it found that 21 separate samples “contained the modern synthetic pigment phthalocyanine green, which was first used in paints nearly four centuries after Parmigianino died.”
You don’t get to be a business as big and enduring as Sotheby’s – founded in 1744, when William Hogarth was satirising the 18th-century art trade that filled stately homes with Old Masters – without staying ahead of the game. That game is reassurance. Having been victims of a forgery scam that is still unravelling, it is now rushing to admit its own errors and offer the latest science as part of its service.
Yet the real mystery is – if these are forgeries, who are the forgers? How have they fooled so many experts?
The research by Orion Analytical shows they did not bother to imitate historical materials. This is odd. Surely, it would make sense to avoid using a colour such as phthalocyanine green, which was bound to be detected if St Jerome was tested. Why would a sophisticated forgery ring make silly mistakes like this?
We can see something else about the forgers. My god, they can paint. One or more extremely talented painters are involved. St Jerome is an impressive piece of work. The bare upper body of the saint is a fine exercise in nude painting. The background is more formulaic – perhaps that’s why the “experts” decided it might be by Parmigianino’s “circle” rather than the master himself – yet the painter who did this could surely, given the right opportunities, be a Lucian Freud in the making.
Does not this combination of artistic talent and technique, impressively inventing a mannerist masterpiece, yet not bothering to use historically appropriate pigments, suggest an oddly innocent crime ring?
Perhaps, far from being calculating con artists led by a 21st-century Mr Ripley, these forgers are a group of young painters putting their skills to illicit use, for fun as much as money. I don’t usually see anything romantic in art crime, but I am starting to sneakily like these guys.
Skilled painting is no longer valued by our culture in the way it used to be. Painters have a very hard job getting recognition. Being able to paint like Parmigianino means nothing in an age when interactivity, photographic media and moving images fill galleries such as Tate Modern. I am not saying it’s wrong for the craft of painting to be so diminished. It may be a historical inevitability. As the art historian Michael Baxandall argued, people tend to like using the skills they learn in daily life when they look at art. Many people today work on screens, using brains, not hands – so of course they like looking at conceptual art.
Yet the more I think about these mysterious forgers, the more I am on their side. They must have trained for years to paint so well. They are so good they can mimic the masters of the 16th and 17th centuries – yet that skill has no place among the theoretical moves and merciless iconoclasms of contemporary art. So perhaps they have taken a bizarre revenge on an art market so obsessed with the new that it has plainly been failing to properly scrutinise the less fashionable old masters that pass through its hands.
Anyway that’s how I picture this artistic underworld. It will be fascinating to find out the truth. Meanwhile, I wouldn’t mind owning one of those beautiful fakes.
The head of the Grammys has denied the awards have a problem with race, insisting voters “almost put a blindfold on” when listening to nominated albums.
In an interview with Pitchfork, Recording Academy president Neil Portnow, defended the awards against widespread suggestions of racial bias since Sunday, when Adele’s 25 beat Beyoncé’s Lemonade to the top prizes, to the disappoinment of many, including Adele herself. That was the latest in a string of controversial decisions to bypass black artists, including Kendrick Lamar being beaten to album of the year by Taylor Swift in 2016, and Beck beating Beyoncé to the same prize in 2015.
“I don’t think there’s a race problem at all.” Portnow told Pitchfork. “Remember, this is a peer-voted award. So when we say the Grammys, it’s not a corporate entity– it’s the 14,000 members of the academy. They have to qualify in order to be members, which means they have to have recorded and released music, and so they are sort of the experts and the highest level of professionals in the industry.”
Portnow said appraisal of music was “inherently subjective” and insisted: “We don’t, as musicians, in my humble opinion, listen to music based on gender or race or ethnicity. When you go to vote on a piece of music – at least the way that I approach it – is you almost put a blindfold on and you listen. It’s a matter of what you react to and what in your mind as a professional really rises to the highest level of excellence in any given year. And that is going to be very subjective.
“That’s what we ask our members to do, even in the ballots. We ask that they not pay attention to sales and marketing and popularity and charts. You have to listen to the music. So of the 14,000 voters, they listen, they make up their minds, and then they vote. Now here’s the other interesting part of the process, and we stand 100% behind the process: it’s a democratic vote by majority. So somebody could either receive or not receive a Grammy based on one vote. It could be that tight.”
He said the Recording Academy is “always working” to increase the diversity of its membership. However, he said: “You don’t get Chance the Rapper as the best new artist of the year if you have a membership that isn’t diverse and isn’t open-minded and isn’t really listening to the music.”
Meanwhile, Solange Knowles has joined the chorus of stars, both black and white, responding to Sunday’s ceremony, calling on those angered by the result to: “Create your own committees, build your own institutions, give your friends awards, award yourself, and be the gold you wanna hold, my Gs.” Solange, who is Beyoncé’s sister, won the best R&B performance award at the Grammys for Cranes in the Sky.
In 1953, the 24-year-old Jürgen Habermas wrote a newspaper article publicly challenging Germany’s greatest living philosopher to explain himself. What had Martin Heidegger meant in his 1935 book Introduction to Metaphysics when he referred to the “inner truth and greatness” of national socialism? How could Heidegger have allowed the republication of these lectures without any revisions or commentary, particularly as he had claimed his membership of the Nazi party before the war had been an aberration?
This was a key moment in Habermas’s intellectual and moral development. Born in 1929, he had been one of the “anti-aircraft generation” of postwar intellectuals, along with novelist Günter Grass and sociologists Ralf Dahrendorf and Niklas Luhmann, all of whom had, as teenagers, helped to defend Hitler. At 15, Habermas was, like most of his contemporaries, a member of the Hitler Youth. Too young to fight and too old to be exempted from any war service, he manned anti-aircraft defences against the allies’ advance. He later described his father, director of the local seminary, and during the war a Wehrmacht major, as a “passive sympathiser” with the Nazis and admitted that he as a youth shared that mindset.
But he was shaken out of his complacency by the Nuremberg trials and documentaries about Nazi concentration camps. His horrified reaction to what he called his fellow Germans’ “collectively realised inhumanity” constituted what he described as “that first rupture, which still gapes”.
Heidegger didn’t deign to reply to Habermas. That silence may explain why the latter became disenchanted with the philosopher’s intellectual system, and instead joined a bunch of neo-Marxist German Jewish intellectuals we know as the Frankfurt school. Max Horkheimer and Theodor Adorno were the leading lights of the Institute for Social Research, philosophising in the rubble of post-Holocaust Germany after their wartime exile in the US. It was their self-imposed task to interrupt what Horkheimer called postwar West Germany’s “ghost sonata”, its conspiracy of silence about the Holocaust.
In 1955, Habermas became Adorno’s assistant. He learned from his boss a new moral duty that would shape the rest of his intellectual life. “Hitler,” Adorno wrote, “imposes a new categorical imperative on human beings in their condition of unfreedom: to arrange their thought and action so that Auschwitz would not repeat itself.”
But for the first generation of the Frankfurt school there was a problem in upholding that duty. Under advanced industrial capitalism, humans were pinned beneath the shadow of that intimidating German compound noun Verblendungszusammenhang, or “total system of delusion”. In other words, it was thought, we are bewitched by our consumer durables, made frivolous by the culture industry, thwarted from using democracy to change an irksome system because it is corrupted by money.
Habermas demurred. In a 1979 interview, he said: “I do not share the basic premise of critical theory, the premise that instrumental reason has gained such dominance that there is really no way out of a total system of delusion, in which insight is achieved only in flashes by isolated individuals.” Individuals, he could have added, such as Adorno.
Habermas was one of the Frankfurt School’s few non-Jews. As such, he couldn’t philosophise with the guilt of a Holocaust survivor as Adorno self-consciously did. Instead, over hundreds of thousands of words, he elaborated what amounts to a rebellious response to Adorno’s despairing, elitist philosophy. This culminated in his 1981 magnum opus, The Theory of Communicative Action, which envisaged an “unlimited communication community” wherein participants in an argument learn from others and from themselves and question suppositions typically taken for granted.
Nietzsche called Kant a catastrophic spider, spinning a crazy philosophical web. Habermas has the same arachnoid tendencies, embracing in his web social, moral, legal and political theory, and is similarly prone to burden his writing with architectonic technicalities. For devotees such as this biographer, his web is spun to strengthen humankind from relapsing into barbarism.
Seen in this light, not just his philosophy but Habermas’s incessant interventions in German public life – the time he called out Heidegger in 1953; his Marxism-inflected jeremiads on West Germany’s democratic structures; his attack on student protesters such as Rudi Dutschke as “left fascists” in the late 60s; and in particular his role in the so-called Historikerstreit (historians’ dispute) in the late 80s – are part of the philosophical spider’s stratagem.
Rightwing German historians suggested the Holocaust was not a uniquely evil event. For Habermas, this was a cop-out
The Historikerstreit arose when rightwing German historians suggested the Holocaust was not a uniquely evil event. Ernst Nolte pointed out that the Gulag archipelago was established prior to Auschwitz and inferred from this that Germany “reasonably” turned to nazism in the face of the Bolshevik threat. For Habermas, this was a cop-out: yet another means by which Germans might avoid proper confrontation with their homeland’s shameful history.
All this makes for fascinating reading, though Müller-Doohm – more deferential here than in his better biography of Adorno – clogs the narrative. So many prizes, speeches, op-ed feuds, honorary degrees, festschrifts … For a book about a doyen of critical theory, this one is insufficiently critical of its subject.
Habermas’s fetishising of communication has biographical resonance. He was born with a cleft palate and, despite several operations as a small boy, for the rest of his life has spoken with a nasal intonation. The mockery he suffered then made him sensitive to any form of exclusion and, as he wrote, may have made him recognise something that would be central to his mature philosophy, namely “the medium of linguistic communication without which individual existence would also be impossible”.
His web has been spun in some improbable places. In 2005, this one-time Marxist rebel met a fellow Hitler Youth, Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, the future Pope Benedict XVI. It was a meeting, incredibly, of the like-minded, as both struggled to work out how multicultural societies could be held together without an overarching conception of the good (a thought that preoccupied not just Habermas but his US counterpart, the philosopher John Rawls). In this binding, Habermas wrote, religion was necessary: “Among the modern societies only those that are able to introduce into the secular domain the essential contents of their religious traditions which point beyond the merely human realm will also be able to rescue the substance of the human.”
He has had some hard thinking to do recently about his dreams for a transnational Europe, following not only the Brexit vote but resentment of Germany’s domination of the EU. He’s also had to put up with his fellow German Wolfgang Streeck arguing that the EU, far from protecting its citizens from the worst the world has to offer, was a deregulation machine exposing them to capitalism gone wild.
Habermas was born with a cleft palate. The mockery he suffered then made him sensitive to any form of exclusion
But Habermas is hardly a complacent defender of the status quo. In an interview with Die Zeit, he argued that German hegemony was threatening the EU’s future: “How must a Spaniard, Portuguese or Greek feel if he has lost his job as a result of the policy of spending cuts decided by the European Council?” Habermas admitted that, for ordinary people, supranationality has meant a loss of political control, though he also argued that the idea of reasserting national control in a globalised marketplace, as the likes of Farage and Le Pen advocate, was delusive. What is his solution? “The only way to get democracy in Europe is through a deepening of European cooperation.”
Now in his 88th year and still tilting at adversaries in print, he remains, for good or ill, something rarely cultivated in Britain: a respected public intellectual, committed to stopping humanity repeating not just the horrors but the evasions of the 20th century. Yet I can’t help savouring a story that undermines Müller-Doohm’s benign interpretation. In 1975, Habermas left his job as co-director of the marvellously named Max Planck Institute for Research into Conditions of Living in a Scientific and Technological World following an acrimonious staff dispute. One close friend, the critic Reinhard Baumgart, accused Habermas of defending himself in the dispute with the “arrogance of the mounted SS against the plebeian rank and file”. Years later, when Habermas and Baumgart bumped into each other on a Munich platform, after exchanging civilities, each retreated to different compartments, into their respective non-communicative silences. Perhaps it’s hard for grudge-holding, sulky humans to realise in this world the ideal speech situations that Habermas has, for more than 60 years, extolled.
Stuart Jeffries’ Grand Hotel Abyss: The Lives of the Frankfurt School is published by Verso. Habermas: A Biography is published by Polity. To order a copy for £25 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
“What’s that saying about a chill wind bringing, er, no good?” It’s not often Kush comes out with such an accurate premonition, but with those words of doom, Walford market’s lovable foghorn set in motion a series of unfortunate events, EastEnders-style, when The Big Bus Crash hit.
It has been a tough month in the Square, brightened only by the moment when Ronnie and Roxy’s funeral turned into a 90s rave. Elsewhere, Phil gained a new liver and a new baby (the product of his brief fling with Denise but who was promptly adopted by someone else) but wisely he and wife Sharon were nowhere to be seen as disaster struck.
EastEnders came over all Casualty on that fateful day, with viewers guessing which cast members’ contracts would perish in the accident and praying that the Good Lord of Soap would take Aunt Babe. That poisonous old trifle-pimp survived being trapped in a freezer last year but surely her time was up?
As the first ever bus passed through Walford, prescient phrases flowed. “Oh great, we’re never going to get home now,” scowled Bex as the diversion kicked in. Out of nowhere – BANG! – the driver collapsed at the wheel and the bus careered into the market and slammed into the bridge. EastEnders may be the home of screeching malaise, but when disaster strikes the community doesn’t ’arf come together. With the exception of the hardest teenager in E20, Keegan, who filmed the lot on his phone then went and looted the Mini Mart. That boy’s got potential.
Sadly, the driver was the only victim, but there was a moment when it looked as if Whitney might be a goner, too. Only Mick thought to check if there was anyone else under the bus. Miraculously, she survived. Maybe the bus bounced off her giant hoop earrings? Even more miraculously, she rose from her hospital bed and rewarded his concern with a hearty snog.
Over in Coronation Street, meanwhile, the darkness of Michelle and Steve’s baby loss was offset by extreme silliness up and down the rest of the cobbles. Sinead was driven to the arms of another man after hapless beau Chesney killed her Venus flytrap (a gift from smooth love rival Daniel). Actually, it was Gemma who fed it a kebab. “Does it chew?” she chirped. “Do you want chilli sauce on that, luv?”
But the biggest shakeup came when Corrie’s next top model Rosie Webster returned from Miami. Her extreme ditziness led her to bring back more than just a manscaping kit. As she was carted off to the cop shop to explain the contents of a bag that looked suspiciously like cocaine, our Rosie shrilled: “Dad! It’s sweetener for my tea!” It was, but she can’t say the same for her boyfriend’s “homeland treats” she was unknowingly smuggling in her makeup bag. Or, as Sean preferred to believe: “She was whisked away by the fashion police for bringing Barbie dolls into disrepute.”
Over in Hollyoaks, it’s farewell to the most evil of serial killers, Cameron, who confessed after Tegan found the body of rhyming murder victim Celine McQueen in the lake. Finally! Hollyoaks loves a serial killer, but Cameron has the biggest body count in Chester and still people trusted him. “Cameron said she was on a retreat!” Tegan whimpered, incredulously. As the truth poured out, Cameron was mown down by Mac and Lisa’s love wagon. But wait! Hollyoaks serial killers don’t die easily. Cockroach-like, he survived and was banged up, presumably until the time is right to terrorise the ’Oaks once again. Because what would they do without someone going around randomly bumping people off?
Finally, Emmerdale saw the return of Debbie Dingle, dip-dyed and in danger. Yes, fans of alliteration and twisted drama, she’s back, back, back! The maven of intrigue had stolen a car from her boss, Hugo. “Hugo Boss?” smirked Ross Barton. But nobody was laughing when two black-clad men gaffer-taped Sam Dingle’s head to the wall and kidnapped her kids. It turns out Debbie had stolen cash to fund Sarah’s cancer treatment. Her mum Charity loves an excuse to don her Honey G wig and sunglasses and comedy posh voice for a scam, so off she went to rinse Chrissie White’s bank account to pay them back. It was all going to plan until she accidentally shot herself with stolen horse tranquiliser. EastEnders might well have the high drama, but who needs a bus crash when Charity’s down a K-hole?
Joe Ramirez does not do things by halves. He has in his time made a chair with 112 joints, lacquered a car 17 times, and once spent five years restoring frescos in a Benedictine chapel in Chicago. So it comes as no surprise to learn that the California artist has been working on The Gold Projections since 2005. It is the latest instance of him being possessed by what he calls an “irresistible urge to master a craft”.
The Gold Projections – in which he projects slow-motion films or single images on to gilded convex discs – emerged from years spent studying everything from medieval gilding techniques to 16th-century books of magic. But the project is also linked, inextricably, to the blue-collar work ethic instilled in him by his plumber father.
The 58-year-old has some influential fans: Wim Wenders, the film director, has described how The Gold Projections “take us back to the marvel provided by the first moving images”. The world premiere, happening on Sunday at the Kulturforum as part of the Berlin film festival, will take the form of a “screening” of Somnium, his two-hour-long film painting.
To enter Ramirez’s studio, the converted gymnasium of a former girls’ school in east Berlin, is to be enveloped in stillness. The windows are draped in black, which feels more protective than gloomy. Hanging from the ceiling is a giant golden orb, across which images silently drift and quiver – shaped and textured by the brush-stroked finish of the gilded surface.
Red camellias in the rain, a floating ladder, a barefoot woman clutching a bowl – the dreamlike images tell a tale loosely based on Johannes Kepler’s 1608 novella Somnium, sometimes called the first sci-fi story, in which the German astronomer describes a dream journey to the moon. It also dramatises Kepler’s real-life attempts to absolve his mother from charges of witchcraft.
The Gold Projections were also influenced by The Sacrifice, a film by the Russian director Andrei Tarkovsky. “I was blown back when I saw the dream sequence,” says Ramirez, who also cites the Spanish baroque, William Blake, Andy Warhol’s Screen Tests, Albrecht Dürer and Cimabue as influences.
But a crucial episode was being allowed to the top of the Sistine Chapel while it was being restored. “I was centimetres away from the calligraphy of Michelangelo – and they let me stay there for two hours. It was information overload, like a composer being handed the notebooks of Mozart. To have that intimacy was profound.”
Seeing The Last Judgment scene by scene as he was hoisted up was like experiencing painting as film, he says, and it gave him the inspiration for this “fresco cinema”, a way of marrying the two art forms. He even spent years and several thousand dollars securing a patent. “I wanted to protect it,” he says, “like Yves Klein did with his blue.”
The legalese used to describe his technique probably captures it better than any art critic has so far managed. According to US patent number 20140355112, it is a “gold-coated projection-receiving surface” in which “a light, or a portion thereof, passes through each of the multiple ordered layers (gold, clay, adhesive, chalk) and reflects back a lustrous, iridescent image that has motion and depth qualities with transmuted colour characteristics”.
Ramirez knew he needed a big space – the discs weigh 200kg and have a diameter of 2.5 metres. Hearing that Berlin was cheap compared with other cities, he came to see it for himself, eventually finding the red-brick gymnasium, which he bought eight years ago. He met Wenders through a mutual friend, the photographer Jim Rakete, and recalls how, one evening at the director’s house, the photographer started singing the Patti Smith song My Blakean Year.
“I said I was dead interested in her writing,” says Ramirez, “and Dorota, Wim’s wife, who is good friends with Patti, wrote to ask her if she’d get involved. Sight unseen, she agreed. She jumped in a cab when she was next in Berlin and came by for soup, and we talked and talked.” As a result, Smith is now the “silent narrator” who appears at regular intervals in Somnium.
Ramirez, who studied painting and film at the Art Institute of Chicago and sculpture at the Royal College of Art in London, says his workspace reminds him of his childhood home, which was “full of materials like wood, pipes, paints – the expectation was that you made things, that you strove to be fast and perfect”.
Surrounded by boxes of pigments, rabbit-skin glues, coloured clays, storyboards hung up or packed into shoeboxes and ideas scribbled on the back of U-Bahn tickets, Ramirez applies the final layers of gold to his discs, a prayerful process in which he rubs the end of a squirrel-hair paintbrush against his scalp to create static, which he then uses to lift a leaf of gold – a hundred times thinner than a cigarette paper – from a cushion of deerskin suede and move it on to the wetted wooden disc. It flickers into place like the wings of a moth and he presses it down with an agate stone, which is like “crushing the light”. The delicate indentations make the forms subsequently cast on to it seem hesitant and chimerical, like slow-paced animations.
“We’re so visually sophisticated these days, we’re dead,” he says. “Often, watching films is no different to flipping through magazines in a dental office. It’s no surprise there’s been an erosion of what people once felt was certain – that they’re not even sure man was on the moon. What I want to do is bring back the wonder.”
• The Gold Projections are at Berlin’s Kulturforum until 19 February.
Jessa Crispin has a problem with feminism. It has become so toothless that she can barely identify with it. For Crispin has teeth and is not afraid to bare them. She does not, as some people do, reject the label “feminist” because it is somehow off-putting and conjures up hairy man-haters. Quite the opposite: feminism, she argues, has been rebranded into banality. The universalising of feminism has been a kind of declawing. It has made it pointless.
The reassurance feminists have to give, that women are reasonable and approachable, is for Crispin problematic: “That pose – I am harmless, I am toothless, you can fuck me – is why I find myself rejecting the feminist label.”
Crispin, an American editor and critic, rails against feminism as self-empowerment, and is determined to rediscover its true and radical potential. She counters the “spoil yourself stupid” feminism beloved of women’s magazines and lifestyle supplements. There is also an important argument here about what radicalism actually is. Lately a lot of the “sex positive” divas look simply like man-pleasers. So much of this on-the-edge feminism actually has nothing to say about the infrastructure of women’s lives. Why talk about pensions when we can talk about polygamy?
What matters, at a time when popular culture is full of celebrities who identify themselves as feminist, is – as Crispin argues – the very relationship between the mainstream and the margin. “The mainstream wants to claim the radical space for itself while simultaneously denying the work radicals do.” In order for this to happen, there has been a disavowal of such radicals as Andrea Dworkin, Shulamith Firestone and Germaine Greer. The matricidal impulse of young women to denounce these “feminazis” often centres around Dworkin, who remains a discomforting figure. Why is that exactly? Crispin cites Laurie Penny writing about Dworkin’s belief system having “no place in any feminism I subscribe to”.
What does this even mean? Dworkin’s work is ultimately about power and what it means and it is deeply uncomfortable because even in our most intimate moments, power relationships exist. Radical change is terrifying. When personified by the likes of Dworkin, women queue up to say that they are not this kind of feminist. Those who say our revolutionaries went too far do so, I suppose, in order to make feminism more user-friendly. But for which users?
This book’s real bite comes when Crispin talks about power and how women use it
The journey from radicalism to self-help is surely a depoliticisation. A movement that once imagined new ways to live has become a self-improvement course with empowerment as a personal goal. Crispin is unafraid to say that if feminism did actually make women happier, giving us better jobs, marriages and orgasms, “the proselytising would be unnecessary”. This book’s real bite comes when she talks about power and how women use it. The more money we have, the more we are able to buy our way out of patriarchy. The notion that equality is about living the way men live is not radical – we have to reset the values and dismantle the whole shebang.
This raises awkward questions about women’s complicity in their own oppression. Such questions are timely now that we have seen the number of white women who voted for Trump. But what exactly is the incentive for women to leave nuclear families, to not identify with their men folk? It is not as if any alternative structures have been set up by feminism. What is there for women who want to live outside the dominant romantic culture? This is what the work is – to make new collective ways of being. What men think of this is of no concern to Crispin. If they object: “Take that shit somewhere else … you as a man are not my problem.”
Actually, though, Crispin also disavows the dehumanisation of men. She asks, for instance, if the invocation of women’s safety is reason enough to put so many men, especially black men, in prison.
Some of these ideas are just floated in the book, and they need more work. But she is always sharp. Her discussion of “outrage feminism”, which exists primarily online, is a breath of fresh air. What does all the outrage achieve? What time and energy we waste on the “twitter bros”! Misogyny can’t be fought individual by individual.
Everywhere she ventures, she exposes the cliches and tries to take us back to what is really at stake – which is of course liberation not equality per se. It is not enough to have more women in positions of power if they are not challenging the system. Expanding the definition of what is beautiful or acceptable is not enough. Rather, romance has to be demoted from being the central feature of our lives.
Crispin is telling us that we have to imagine something better in order to build it. Feminism as self-absorption, as an add-on label to a new lifestyle, has got us … where exactly? Where we are now. Stalled. Look how quickly we can go backwards. When did feminism get so small? When it became polite, unthreatening and marketable. Crispin blasts through all this by asking us to think big, properly scarily big.
• Why I Am Not a Feminist is published by Melville House. To order a copy for £11.99 (RRP £12.04) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
‘It’s a brain thing,” says Andrew Marr of the impairments caused by the stroke that almost killed him four years ago. With any other man in his early 50s, this might prompt rest and recuperation but, for Marr, it’s an opportunity to probe a new subject as if it were a succulent fruit dangling at eye level, too juicy to resist. In Andrew Marr: My Brain and Me (BBC2), the political broadcaster describes an area “the size of a small tomato” that effectively vanished that day in 2013 when, in the middle of a session on the rowing machine, he saw a galaxy of pretty lights as a small, devastating fire blazed in his skull.
Within nine months of the event, Marr was back at Broadcasting House, covering Brexit, limping somewhat and with an immobile left arm. But otherwise dividing his time between childish games with brightly coloured blocks (ongoing rehabilitation) and taking calls about the availability of Iain Duncan Smith. A camera crew follows him as he undergoes physiotherapy, tries experimental treatments and meets others who have emerged from the same ischemic darkness.
As we see him leading the frenetically busy life of author, presenter and broadcaster, he talks about why he thinks this happened to him. He is fairly sure it was self-induced: overwork. Does he think he is at risk of a second stroke? Perhaps, but what is life if not a densely planted garden, blooming with exciting-looking flowers to land on. (The butterfly motif is his own.) He can’t settle on one thing where work is concerned.
But the revelation is his painting. In a borrowed room in north London, we see his studio, which is predictably stuffed with canvases, both pre- and post-illness. The before paintings depict verdant, delightful landscapes, heightened but inviting. The after works are lurid, urgent and abstract: more immediate expression than pastoral relaxation.
He wants to talk about the brain and what the different areas do, but producer/director Liz Allen wants his personal journey. They seem to be engaged in a trade-off between the two. It’s part of the fun to watch him dodge her good-natured right hooks.
When we follow him back to the Hammersmith hospital that treated him, it’s the closest we get to real feeling. Back in room H of the acute stroke unit, he sits on a vinyl chair and leafs through the diary he kept, before and after the stroke. He shows the difference in his writing, and the sketches he made during his recovery. He is unnerved to be back.
“No tear-stained pages – you know me better than that,” he insists. “There is no human crime worse than self-pity.” He dishes up another emotional roadblock with a smile at Allen, then warmly greets the neurologist who helped him get his life back.
His presence on screen, all that enthusiasm and practical curiosity, translates very well to something more personal and I hope he revisits this subject in the future. Except he won’t, because he will already be working on a six-part series about China and two new books.
While emotional nudity was very much off the menu on BBC2, Channel 4 were hoping to pull viewers in for a lighthearted hour in the company of some naturists. The Great British Skinny Dip ticked all the naturist boxes within the first 10 minutes, depicting nude barbecues, badminton and one woman just avoiding accidental breast dippage in a pan of pasta sauce.
I was all set for the usual plucky strings and amusing camera angles, but got something more affecting from director Victoria Silver’s often emotionally stripped documentary.
Yes, the subjects are defiantly fleshy and sometimes verging on the evangelical about their right to bare arms/bums/it all. But some of the interviews take unexpected turns when Silver asks the right questions.
A former headmistress says that an anonymous call to her employer outing her as a naturist resulted in her early retirement. Linda, stirring her bolognese, says she only now feels comfortable in her own body and guesses that the young are too body-conscious to consider nudity in front of others. Then a brief chat with Linda’s neighbour, Lindsey, (not a naturist) turns into a heart-rending confession about feeling ashamed of her body since giving birth.
The subject of naturism here leads naturally into a discussion about our bodies and the strangely unfriendly relationships we have with them. And what could have been a tongue-in-cheek, mocking documentary goes very easy on the raised eyebrows and portrays instead the individual joy these people experience.
It won’t convert anyone to the cause, but it is much more than the sum of its private parts.
Celia Imrie breezes into the cafe, apologising for being late and making people at the next table nudge each other excitedly. She’s wearing a purple shawl, collared moleskin jacket, silk off-white collarless blouse, black trousers and sparkly trainers. “I got those from Monte Carlo,” she says of the trainers. Of course she did.
It’s quite possible that this ensemble was assembled by Le Huit Couture in Nice, the French Riviera city where Imrie has an apartment overlooking the Med, and where she set her two novels, Not Quite Nice and its sequel, Nice Work (If You Can Get It), which is out in paperback next week. “They choose all my outfits for me,” she explains.
She is also wearing a pearl and ruby necklace given to her by Glenda Jackson. Last year, Imrie and Jane Horrocks played Goneril and Regan respectively, opposite Jackson’s Lear at the Old Vic. “Glenda had two necklaces and she gave one to Jane and one to me.” Why? “Because, she said, she has no female dependents.”
It’s a relief to see Imrie, 64, looking so at ease in this Notting Hill cafe, given that the last time I saw her, she was a haggard wreck. Perhaps your abiding image of Imrie is seeing her naked behind two cherry bakewells in 2003’s Calendar Girls, the cherries concealing her nipples. Mine, though, is more grotesque. I’m haunted by the chilling sight of Imrie in her new film, A Cure for Wellness, desiccated and nearly naked on a gurney in an Alpine sanatorium. As the camera moves in, we see little eels visibly snaking under her skin and ingesting her vitals, as she succumbs to a diabolical scheme by the sanitarium’s director (a superbly hammy Jason Isaacs) to drain his patients of their blood and thereby create an inbred master race.
A Cure for Wellness is, as far as I could make out, an update of Thomas Mann’s The Magic Mountain, by Pirates of the Caribbean director Gore Verbinski, in which a Wall Street finance tyro called Lockhart is sent to Switzerland to retrieve a co-worker from this supposed wellness centre. Once there, Lockhart finds the institution is populated overwhelmingly by elderly former businesspeople who don’t want to leave. Imrie’s character worked for 40 years at Xerox, but now seems content playing badminton on the lawn, doing crosswords on the veranda and, oh yes, being killed off slowly during ostensibly restorative spa treatments.
Was it difficult to watch herself infested with creepy crawlies in the resulting film? “I didn’t find it difficult at all. It’s a sumptuous film to look at.” I always thought Imrie was queasy about watching herself on screen. I recall reading that when she, Judi Dench and Penelope Wilton saw themselves in The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel, their jaws dropped because the film was made without special lighting or makeup. Didn’t she say that, if the three of them had been filming in America, being in their 60s, they would have had Botox?
“Well, certainly after I did Calendar Girls, I had a meeting with an American management company in which they suggested I have work done. I even found myself thinking they had a point.” So why didn’t she have work done? “I’m just a coward,” she jokes. “There’s no point in me trying to be 26, which is my favourite age, by the way. In any case, I’m being asked to play older than I am – women of 70 or 80.”
A Cure for Wellness may seem a departure, given that Imrie’s most highly regarded acting has been in cheerful roles, but the film’s meditation on death chimes with her own existential crisis. When she turned 60, she said that at best she had another two decades of life left. Hence her appreciation of a part in another new film, Finding Your Feet, starring Timothy Spall and Imelda Staunton. “It’s about the joy of dancing. One great pleasure was watching these men of a certain age disco dancing.” Because they’re defying the sagathon that’s going to get us all? “In a sense. I’m not being dramatic – but we don’t know how long we have left, so we must live our lives to the full.”
In 2011, Imrie published her memoir, The Happy Hoofer. “It came from someone saying: ‘Write your life story – or someone else will.’ I thought: ‘Oh gawd!’ My publisher wanted it to be a misery memoir. I wasn’t having that.” The book is not devoid of misery, though. Imrie related how, aged 14, she was treated for anorexia by controversial psychiatrist William Sargant, who gave her electro-convulsive therapy and the anti-psychotic drug Largactil. “Today,” she wrote, “his books are said to be studied by al-Qaida.”
Imrie recalled that nurses thought she was exhibiting a dangerous resistance to the drugs. “Dangerous for whom, I wonder?” she wrote. “Who could tell in that terrible place where, as far as I can see, the truly insane were the workers rather than the patients.” Half a century before A Cure for Wellness, she inhabited its topsy-turvy world.
Her cure came after a visit from her former dance teacher, who told her: “I came to visit you because they told me you would die in two weeks, and I thought I ought to say goodbye.” It was a turning point: “Whenever I am issued with an absolute order, my instinct has always been the same – do the opposite. And thanks to Miss Hawkesworth, I decided there and then I would not oblige these horrible, self-appointed gods of psychiatry and die just to satisfy their theories. Slowly, I started to eat.”
Later, at the age of 16, she won a place at the Guildford School of Acting, in her home town: “I was on my way.” Defying her family’s hopes and social norms, she chose not to marry. (“I’ve never even cohabited.”) The decision was born of a desire for independence, though it may have also had something to do with what her friend Eleanor Bron said to her: “Have you never thought that in fact the actual horror is that you would find them [husbands] boring?”
I went out for a croissant and came back with an apartment
At 42, Imrie gave birth to a son, Angus. The father is actor Ben Whitrow, best known for his Mr Bennet in the BBC’s 1996 Pride and Prejudice. She bristles slightly when I ask about how she raised Angus (now a Warwick University drama student). “Ben gets cross reading about how I raised Angus. So just say he is a wonderful father to Angus, which he is.”
The Happy Hoofer led to requests for her to write novels. “I heard myself saying: ‘Why not?” The result was a two-book deal with Bloomsbury for novels about expats in the fictional Côte d’Azur town of Belleville-sur-Mer. “Such a charming romp,” wrote Fern Britton of the first, which appeared in 2015.
Peppered with local dishes, the novels are as light and frothy as the îles flottantes with crème anglaise she gives a recipe for near the end of the first book. Imrie decided on the setting after visiting Nice. “I went there and totally fell in love with the place. On a whim, I went out for a croissant and came back having bought an apartment.” Which is exactly what one of her heroines, 59-year-old clerical worker Theresa Simmonds, does – happily swapping drizzly old Britain for the sunny Med.
Imrie’s fictional world revolves around love affairs, cookery clubs, boozy lunches, trips to the Cannes film festival and plans to set up a Brit-run bistro. It’s a charmed milieu, where women who’ve been exploited or neglected at home get a second go at life abroad. Is that how you live on the Riviera? “Not at all,” she says. “I don’t really know anybody – and that’s how I like it.”
On 14 July last year, Imrie was strolling through Nice with thousands of other people celebrating Bastille Day. “I imagined they put on the fireworks for me, because my birthday is 15 July.” That evening a terrorist killed 84 people by driving a lorry through the crowds on the Promenade des Anglais. Imrie was part of the crowd. “It was a miracle for me that I survived – unlike for other poor people.”
But what struck her most was how the city behaved after the terrorist attack. “The dignity of the people of Nice was quite humbling. All the florists laid out flowers along the Promenade, sometimes just one lily. And then later they gathered them up, hugged them and passed them to the next person.”
She was moved, too, by the words of President Hollande: “He said, ‘Why Nice? It’s the most beautiful city.’” It’s a sentiment she shares, even though she knows she is – and wants to remain – something of an outsider. “I look out on to the Med from my apartment. I have the most idyllic views, especially at night. I can quite see why so many painters lived and worked here.”
Does she think of it as a racially integrated city? “I don’t know but I do know that I have I have an adorable Muslim man who comes and does handiwork for me – fixing the shower or whatever.”
After that tragedy, Imrie decided against writing another book set in Belleville-sur-Mer. “It would have been extremely difficult to write about the tragedy – and difficult to leave it out.” Instead, she has just finished writing her third novel, called Sailing Away and set on the Queen Mary 2, as it travels from Southampton to New York.
I suggest Imrie’s books replicate something of Victoria Wood’s best work, especially Dinnerladies, in which Imrie played appealingly ditzy, emotionally vulnerable HR manager Philippa. Men are subsidiary and the energy comes from women freed from the yawnsome yoke of maledom. Imrie demurs: “She was a genius, I’m not.”
Wood’s death last year, aged 62, still haunts her. “I was in America when it happened and it was a terrible shock. I was just happy to be on her team, to be in her gang or whatever you want to call it.” Imrie, along with Julie Walters, was a leading member of that gang, which also included Susie Blake, Duncan Preston, Anne Reid, Maxine Peake and Thelma Barlow. “She got us all together and, the more we worked, the easier and more creative it got. We were like Monty Python. I think about her every day. Always will. I wish I was still working with her. She was my dear pal.”
Wood’s early death and the tragedy in Nice have proved a creative spur. Professionally, Imrie’s certainly living life to the full, about to head stateside to shoot TV comedy Better Things, in which she plays a politically incorrect, gobby English mother. In September, she’s on Broadway to perform in Lear again with Jackson. Somewhere in between, she has to write a fourth novel. “We’re great fans,” say the quartet at the next table as Imrie prepares to leave. “Love your work!” She thanks them and then wafts off for photos. Like the rest of us, they’re witnessing the prime of Ms Celia Imrie.
• A Cure for Wellness is released in the UK on 24 February. Nice Work (If You Can Get It) is published by Bloomsbury on the same day.
Oddball, the maremma that proved dogs could be used to protect a Victorian penguin colony and inspired a movie in the process, has died aged 15.
She spent only two weeks on Middle Island but her short trip led to a permanent penguin-protection project being set up and a 2015 film being named after her.
“Old Oddball has gone to the big chook run in the sky and will rest in peace!” the Middle Island maremma project posted to Facebook on Wednesday.
About 150m offshore from Warrnambool and connected by a tidal sand bridge, Middle Island has been home to little penguins for decades. Marauding foxes cut the island’s population to fewer than 10 birds in 2005.
That led chicken farmer Alan Marsh, who had trained maremmas to protect his free-range chooks, to suggest applying the same tactic for the penguins.
The world-first project was so successful it attracted interest from as far as Italy and led to Shane Jacobson portraying Marsh in the 2015 family film Oddball.
Warrnambool’s former tourism services manager Peter Abbott said Qantas passengers who had watched the movie during their flight had changed their plans once in Australia to visit the town, the Warrnambool Standard reported.
He joked that Oddball had stolen all the attention from other maremmas that had spent much longer on the island
“We always laughed that Oddball took all the glory and our current dogs have been doing it for nine years and Oddball was only on the island for two weeks,” Abbott said.
The mayor of Warrnambool, Kylie Gaston, said the council would consider putting up a statue of Oddball on Middle Island, the Standard reported.
“I’m aware there are quite a few people who think it would be a good idea to have some sort of sculpture, perhaps across from the island and perhaps this is the impetus for that,” Gaston said.
“We are indebted to Oddball. I think we need to acknowledge her for the work she did in turning our penguin population around.
“Our thoughts are with Swampy Marsh as well. Oddball was his loyal dog for many years.”
Two dogs, Eudy and Tula, now spend five days a week on the island during breeding season.
The penguin population was estimated to be 130 in 2015.
Even in its 13th series, the revelations on WDYTYA? remain as varied, heartbreaking and unpredictable as ever. Tonight, actor Warwick Davis delves into his family’s past, discovering a link to a fellow performer that proves unexpectedly problematic. Was one of his forebears a bigamist? And what was the reason for his great-grandfather’s untimely death? A gentler journey than that of, say, Danny Dyer, but an engaging one nonetheless. Hannah J Davies
The travel documentary series for celebrities of a certain age returns and is upgraded to club class – ie, BBC1. Dennis Taylor, Rustie Lee, Miriam Stoppard, Bill Oddie, Sheila Ferguson from the Three Degrees, Paul Nicholas, Lionel Blair and Amanda Barrie head to Kochi in Kerala. “It’s got the edge on Eastbourne,” says Barrie. Meanwhile, Lee gets schooled in the local cuisine, and Nicholas arrives rather short on underpants. Ben Arnold
The second series of Paul Abbott’s blackly comic, bracingly in-your-face cop drama kicked off with a fateful explosion at a Manchester gangland funeral, and tonight’s finale threatens to end with an even bigger bang. The indomitable DI Deering seems to be closing in on calculating racketeer Nora Attah but, in reality, her unit is falling apart. Can coppers Dinah and Joy rub along with their steamrollering boss long enough for them all to make the ultimate collar? Graeme Virtue
Episode two of the Roots remake. It’s the American revolutionary war era, and Kunta Kinte escapes to join the British army, which sends him into combat without a firearm. Unsurprisingly, this doesn’t end well, and Kinte is recaptured and brutalised, a prelude to meeting the love of his life. Despite moments where the emotional timbre is too Hollywood, this story has real power, even second time around. Look out for a top turn from Forest Whitaker as Fiddler, too. Jonathan Wright
Corey Hawkins takes over Kiefer Sutherland’s job, desperately sprinting about trying to stop an apocalypse, but otherwise 24 is in familiar shape as it reboots. It’s all plot and pace, with everyone apart from the main character a potential villain, and it’s built on the problematic notion that the US is perpetually imperilled by foreign terrorists. Here, they’re picking off members of an elite Army Rangers unit whose recent mission in Yemen had secret significance. Jack Seale
Rotherham teenager Zara Hartshorn has more to be concerned about than her Instagram follower count. Having been born with lipodystrophy, a genetic condition that stops her skin snapping back into place, Zara is often mistaken for a much older woman. Corrective surgery is possible, but the only surgeon who can help is in the US. This film follows Zara and family as they attempt to make a truly life-changing trip. Mark Gibbings-Jones
The everyday madness of the current White House places dramatisations about the US administration in a quandary. They seem too sane, too functional, too reasonable to be true. In this Morgan Freeman-directed season three opener, following a series of disasters at sea, Téa Leoni’s Elizabeth tries to persuade the president to take climate change more seriously – but could this result in his being a one-term presidency? David Stubbs
Mr Nice (Bernard Rose, 2010) 11.35pm, Film4
Adapted from the autobiography of Howard Marks, this is a lighthearted, Bernard Rose-tinted portrait of the world’s once-most-famous drug trafficker. It follows his amazing career from the Welsh valleys to Oxford University hash smoker to 70s drug baron, dealing with the IRA, MI6 and the mafia along the way. Marks is played with seductive, entirely guilt-free charm by Rhys Ifans. Paul Howlett
Snooker: The Welsh Open The third day’s play from Cardiff. 10am, Eurosport 2
Champions League football: Bayern Munich v Arsenal A tough assignment for Arsenal as the tournament reaches its knockout phase. 7pm, BT Sport 2
NBA: Cleveland Cavaliers v Indiana Pacers Coverage of the clash from Quicken Loans Arena. 12midnight, BT Sport 1
Madrid lacks neither literary history nor reminders of it. Statues of Calderón and Lorca haunt the Plaza Santa Ana, Cervantes offers his profile to passersby from the doorway of his house, and the words of writers and poets such as Francisco de Quevedo are set into the paving stones of the literary quarter.
Less visible are reminders of the female writers, artists and thinkers who emerged in the years before the Spanish civil war only to find themselves silenced or marginalised by Francoism and its monochrome view of women. But, eight decades on, their voices and stories are being heard once more.
Four months ago, Madrid city council unveiled a plaque to Elena Fortún, who was best known as a children’s author until the posthumous publication last year of Hidden Path, a novel about homosexuality that has been compared to Radclyffe Hall’s The Well of Loneliness.
In March, another plaque will go up on the site of the Lyceum Women’s Club in Madrid, a meeting place for the leading female intellectuals of the age.
Efforts to commemorate the women who flourished during the social emancipation of the Second Republic are being driven by Nuria Capdevila-Argüelles, a professor of Hispanic and gender studies at the University of Exeter.
Capdevila-Argüelles and her film-maker collaborator, Tania Ballo, have so far provided Madrid council with research on 15 women, including the journalist, actor, writer and diplomat Isabel Oyarzábal, the lawyer and politician Victoria Kent and the poet Ernestina de Champourcín.
Her aim is simple: to fill in the gaps in Spain’s social and intellectual history and to honour the flesh-and-blood individuals who became “the ghosts of Spanish modernity” during both the asphyxiating years of the dictatorship and the “pact of forgetting” that followed Franco’s death.
If the Second Republic and even the conflict itself had given many women a chance to learn and get out of the house, the fascist victory forced them into retreat.
“We have a generation of female thinkers – artists, scientists – who go into exile,” said Capdevila-Argüelles.
“And women have to become incredibly modest and flawless, hiding a past that had very often embraced modernity but that couldn’t keep on embracing it. The speech that Pilar Primo de Rivera, the founder of the women’s section of the Falange, gave to Franco after the end of the civil war sums it up: ‘A woman’s peacetime place is in the home.’”
Among those who went into exile was Elena Fortún, whose character Celia – a cross between Just William and Little Women’s Jo March – was a childhood companion for many Spaniards. Fortún eventually returned to Spain, where she died in 1952.
In correspondence with her fellow writer Carmen Laforet, which has just been collected by Capdevila-Argüelles and published as a book, Fortún urges her young colleague to live a better and happier life than she herself did, or could. In Spain, writes Fortún, “time has stood still and that which is not legal is a sin”.
Antonio Maura, a consultant at Madrid city council’s culture department, said that while the tracking down all the information and getting permission to put the plaques on buildings sometimes took time, the council was determined to remember the women who have long been overshadowed by Lorca and his fellow poets of the Generation of 1927.
“People have always talked about and celebrated the poets of the Generation of 1927 but they’ve forgotten that behind – or next to – these writers, there were many women,” he said. “It’s a part of history that has gone unfinished. Maybe it hasn’t been hidden, but it hasn’t been visible enough … What we want to do is retrieve that bit of the story that hasn’t been told.”
In a city not short of monuments to soldiers, philosophers and bullfighters, Capdevila-Argüelles hopes the new plaques will help Spain make a little more sense of its past.
“People, both Spanish and British, have written about Spain’s ghosts, but the most important ghosts are the women – the invisible 50%,” she said.
“The role of history and an awareness of our past is utterly fundamental. It’s about learning about our diversity, our cultural heritage, about learning about our first attempt at genuine democracy at the beginning of the 20th century, which failed. We need to learn from our past; it’s there as a lesson.”
One of the joys and also one of the great disappointments of parenthood is sharing one’s own childhood loves with one’s children.
It was delightful to introduce my son Henry to Enid Blyton’s Magic Faraway Tree, which he loved, however disturbing so many of those stories are, but it was a little hurtful to find him totally indifferent to The Famous Five. Not even the presence of Timmy the Dog or mysterious smugglers could impress him. He similarly rejects Narnia in favour of the Beast Quest series and is bored by the terribly dubbed 1980s TV series Monkey that I love with nostalgic ardor.
But he loves Doctor Who and some of the most enchanting hours of motherhood for me have been spent with him in front of the small screen watching the same Daleks and Cybermen that terrified me as a child in the 1970s, and the Doctor, with his various faces, his capricious wit, his belief in courage and brains as a solution to problems that would be solved by other heroes with a bullet from a gun or a punch in the face. Tom Baker was my iconic Doctor, David Tennant will be his.
We went to the movies for Henry’s 11th birthday late last year to see Miyazaki’s animated masterpiece Spirited Away on the big screen and watched a trailer for a cinema screening of the annual Doctor Who Christmas special. Can we come to see it, Henry asked eagerly. At first I was excited by the prospect of watching Doctor Who with an audience of fellow enthusiasts – not always easy to find in California’s East Bay, where we currently live – but something about the idea was unappealing. We wound up watching it at home, on the small screen, as seemed proper, but it still left me vaguely dissatisfied and afterwards I realised what had been largely missing from the episode: the Doctor’s spaceship and time machine, camouflaged as a blue police box, the Tardis.
The magic of the Tardis has always suggested to me the magic of television itself. Before the advent of the flat screen, television was literally a box – to my eyes as a child, an undeniably magic box capable of incredible feats to do with compressing and changing space and time. I dwelled for hours on what strange technology could be capable of shrinking and transporting people and animated cartoon beings into this luminous space, and replicating them infinitely on other televisions in other houses, other places.
Doctor Who was what I watched at this time, a show all about a magic box that, like the television, was bigger on the inside; like the Tardis, the TV’s blockish dimensions contained unfathomable wonders, other worlds and brought the accents and cityscapes of America and the UK into our Sydney home. It let you travel in time, in space.
Television was the medium and the metaphor of Doctor Who. I think that this is the source of the disconnect that happened when I saw that trailer at the cinema, why it felt wrong to see Peter Capaldi’s craggy, lovely face and spindly body enlarged and projected like that: the Doctor belongs not on the big screen watched by a crowd but inside my own little box at home.
The Tardis sometimes seems to me to be a metaphor for the mystery of imagination itself, of consciousness, of individual interiority. The show loves to dwell on those moments when uninitiated characters enter for the first time and struggle to overcome their confusion and amazement, searching for words to express the wonder of the machine other than the classic utterance, “It’s bigger on the inside.” The Tardis is an intelligent machine; sometimes it refuses to obey the Doctor’s commands and has its own ideas, fears and desires. The painfully sleazy 11th Doctor, played by Matt Smith, liked to address the Tardis as “sexy.” The consciousness of the Tardis was extracted from the machine in one of Smith’s episodes and transferred to a human body. She paused and looked around in wonder – or, rather, looked inward – and murmured to the Doctor, “It’s bigger on the inside.”
We haven’t owned a television for years and do all our viewing on our computers; Henry watches Netflix and things on iTunes and, when we have the energy to hook up an external drive, DVDs. He listens inattentively when I describe what television was like when I was growing up with Doctor Who: the program came on at a certain time of day, once a week, and there was no way to record it. You watched it then or you missed it. The television was a clunky box and the image it showed was black and white, prone to frazzling in bad weather, dependent on a flimsy wire aerial. This seems so bizarre to him that I think he suspects me of making it up.
As a child I probably identified more with the companions than the Doctor (one of the companions at the time was even an Australian, the air hostess Tegan) but, with all of the worlds of the internet available to him and his mastery of the machine, Henry likely feels more kinship with the Doctor.
Philip Pullman has ended years of speculation by announcing that The Book of Dust, an epic fantasy trilogy that will stand alongside his bestselling series, His Dark Materials, will be published in October around the world.
The as-yet-untitled first volume of The Book of Dust, due out on 19 October, will be set in London and Oxford, with the action running parallel to the His Dark Materials trilogy. A global bestseller since the first volume, Northern Lights, was published in 1995, Pullman’s series has sold more than 17.5m copies and been translated into 40 languages.
Pullman’s brave and outspoken heroine, Lyra Belacqua, will return in the first two volumes. Featuring two periods of her life – as a baby and 10 years after His Dark Materials ended – the series will include other characters familiar to existing readers, as well as creations such as alethiometers (a clock-like truth-telling device), daemons (animals that are physical manifestations of the human spirit) and the Magisterium, the church-like totalitarian authority that rules Lyra’s world.
The Oxford-based former teacher said he had returned to the world of Lyra because he wanted to get to the bottom of “Dust”, the mysterious and troubling substance at the centre of the original books. “Little by little, through that story the idea of what Dust was became clearer and clearer, but I always wanted to return to it and discover more,” Pullman said.
In a description that will resonate with the current political climate, he added that “at the centre of The Book of Dust is the struggle between a despotic and totalitarian organisation, which wants to stifle speculation and inquiry, and those who believe thought and speech should be free”.
But David Fickling, whose firm, David Fickling Books, will publish The Book of Dust in the UK jointly with Penguin Random House children’s books, warned readers not to draw too many parallels between the new book and the current political situation in the UK or US. “I think it is a really important book for now, not in an intellectual way, but in a storytelling way,” Fickling said. He said the book would “resonate on a psychological level” and added: “Some of the best people for telling us the truth about our times are our great storytellers and Philip is one of them.”
Exact details of the plot are a closely guarded secret. However, Fickling hinted that readers would not have to wait 17 years – the gap between the last volume of His Dark Materials and the first of The Book of Dust – before the new series would conclude. The BBC reported on Wednesday that Pullman had completed the first and second volumes already, and was working on the third. Asked when the second volume would be published, Fickling replied, laughing: “You need to ask him, but readers should know they have a big treat ahead of them.”
The puzzle of how Lyra came to be living at Jordan College, Oxford, in her alternative universe, initiated the new trilogy. “In thinking about it, I discovered a long story that began when she was a baby and will end when she’s grown up,” Pullman said. Describing it as neither sequel nor prequel, but an “equel”, he added: “It doesn’t stand before or after His Dark Materials, but beside it. It’s a different story, but there are settings that readers of His Dark Materials will recognise and characters they’ve met before.”
Speaking to the Today programme on BBC Radio 4, Pullman said the first book of the trilogy opened roughly 10 years before the action of Northern Lights, and the series “continues roughly 10 years after His Dark Materials”.
“So we see Lyra both as a baby and we see her in the second book as an adult; she’s 20 years old,” Pullman added. “There she can fully take agency of the story, so to speak.”
Dust, as described in the original series, has been equated to dark matter. It is expected that Pullman will incorporate the latest findings about the substance, which scientists say exists because of evidence of its gravitational impact on the motion of visible matter.
Though Pullman’s publisher would not confirm how this research would feature in the book, Fickling admitted that it had some influence. “He has a capacious mind and is sent nearly every scientific book before publication,” he said. “If you visit his house, you will see all these books that are way above everyone else, he doesn’t miss much that is going on.”
The quest to understand, use and destroy Dust is central to His Dark Materials. But as well as being analogous to dark matter, Pullman has said that it is a metaphor for the original story, which he based upon Milton’s Paradise Lost. In His Dark Materials, the Magisterium regards it as evidence of original sin, which must be destroyed before children emerge from puberty into adulthood when their daemons, the animal familiars that represent their spirits, take their final form.
“Dust is an analogy of consciousness, and consciousness is this extraordinary property we have as human beings,” Pullman told the Today programme. “The story I’m telling in this book is more about in terms of William Blake’s vision, his idea of a fiercely reductive way of seeing things: it’s right or wrong; it’s black or white.
“He said that was far too limiting and we should bring out truer human vision when we see things, surround them all with a sort of penumbra of imagination and memories and hopes and expectations and fears and all these things.
“It’s an attack on the reductionism, the merciless reductionism, of doctrines with a single answer.”
Speaking to the Sydney Morning Herald in 2003, Pullman noted that the Harry Potter author, JK Rowling, had taken more flak for the magic in her books than he had for his overt criticism of organised religion. “I’ve been surprised by how little criticism I’ve got,” he told the newspaper. “Harry Potter’s been taking all the flak … Meanwhile, I’ve been flying under the radar, saying things that are far more subversive than anything poor old Harry has said. My books are about killing God.”
Rachel Lindsay has become the first African American lead to be cast on the romantic reality shows the Bachelorette or the Bachelor.
The announcement was made on Jimmy Kimmel’s late-night show on Monday evening, after days of rumors that the show’s producers were poised to cast an African American for the first time in more than 30 seasons.
While being interviewed on Good Morning America on Tuesday, Lindsay said: “I don’t feel added pressure. I’m honored to have this opportunity and to represent myself as an African American woman.”
ABC boss Channing Dungey, who became the first black woman to head a network TV channel, said that the show would cast an African American lead soon while speaking at the TCAs, saying that diversity had improved on the shows.
The two shows’ lack of diverse contestants has been criticized for years, and a lawsuit was brought against the production company and the show’s creator, Mike Fleiss, in 2012 by Nathaniel Claybrooks and Christopher Johnson, two African American men who had auditioned for the Bachelor.
The class-action suit claimed that the company and Fleiss had “knowingly, intentionally, and as a matter of corporate policy refused to cast people of color in the role of The Bachelor and The Bachelorette”, since the shows started in 2002.
The case was thrown out by a judge in October 2012, after she ruled the show’s casting was protected by the first amendment. In 2011, Fleiss put the lack of diversity down to the fact minority contestants rarely come forward to appear on the show. “We always want to cast for ethnic diversity. It’s just that for whatever reason, they don’t come forward. I wish they would.”
Last year Fusion reported that 59% of the black contestants who have been on the show exited within the first two weeks. After the lawsuit in 2013, the show cast its first non-white lead in the Bachelor with Venezuelan former footballer Juan Pablo Galavis – but the show’s creators were criticized for choosing a light-skinned south American.
In a statement Robert Mills, senior vice-president of alternative series, specials and late night for ABC, said of Lindsay: “She is an accomplished, confident and beautiful woman who knows what she wants in life. We all look forward to joining her on the joyous journey as she looks for that one special man.”
Lindsay, who is a lawyer, has already featured in the Bachelor, and will become the Bachelorette on 22 May when the show’s 13th season begins.
Dozens of people who bought tickets for gigs by artists including Ed Sheeran through Viagogo claim the website is withholding thousands of pounds in refunds, after a “glitch” saw them overcharged.
Angry fans said Viagogo is ignoring complaints, leaving them out of pocket for weeks and fearing they will be unable to make ends meet this month.
Helen Meakins bought Ed Sheeran tickets as a treat for her children and husband after a difficult year including an illness that left her baby on a life-support machine. She thought she was paying £170, a sum she had saved over several months, but was charged £917.12.
In a letter to Viagogo she wrote: “If I pay that off then I have no idea how we’re meant to survive. I really don’t think Viagogo appreciate just what this is putting me, my family and others through.”
Some customers were told they are not entitled to a refund, while others were advised by the company to recoup their money by putting the tickets back on Viagogo for resale. The company, founded by American entrepreneur Eric Baker, will take a commission on any further resales.
The company admitted to what it called a “hiccup” earlier this month, telling consumer website MoneySavingExpert that customers would get their money back. Viagogo did not respond to the Guardian’s questions about the glitch and the refunds.
However, a Facebook campaign group set up to support those affected says it knows of at least £20,000 still owed.
The Facebook group, “Victim of Viagogo”, has gathered more than 50 members, while more have applied to join. Its founder, Claire Turnham, said she was quickly offered her money back after starting the group and complaining via social media, but said others are still waiting.
Customers said that as well as Ed Sheeran concerts they believed other events were affected, including Anthony Joshua’s heavyweight boxing bout with Wladimir Klitschko and concerts by U2, Craig David and Alejandro Sanz.
We are deeply concerned about the websites in question and have urged all fans not to engage with them
A spokesperson for Ed Sheeran said: “We are vehemently opposed to the unethical practices that occur in the secondary market.
“We are aware and deeply concerned about the websites in question and have urged all fans not to engage with them in order to avoid being ripped off with higher prices or, potentially, counterfeit tickets.
“Once again, we urge all fans to only purchase tickets through official vendors.”
Vickie Sheriff, director of campaigns at consumer group Which?, said: “It’s outrageous that some people have been overcharged and not refunded for their tickets.
“Customers should not have to pay the price for a ‘website glitch’. Viagogo now has a duty to refund affected customers immediately.”
Jill Hutchison, a consultancy manager with the National Trust, bought tickets for her daughters’ birthdays two weeks ago. She was expecting to pay £180 but was told in a confirmation email that she had been charged £857.93.
“My husband and I are trying to be calm as we don’t want to upset the girls, but it is hard knowing that in two weeks the amount will arrive on my credit card bill and we have no money to pay.”
Other customers told the Guardian they have received no response from Viagogo.
The website has emerged as the most controversial firm in the hotly disputed secondary ticketing market, which campaigners say helps touts rip off fans.
The site was accused of “callous profiteering” last year after racking up huge profits on a charity concert staged by comedian Peter Kay to raise funds for cancer research.

Set up in 2008, the trans-Tasman Netball League was the world’s premier netball competition, made up of five teams from Australia and five from New Zealand. But the standard of the Australian teams was generally higher, which led to mismatches (eight of the nine championships were won by Australian teams) and ultimately the league’s demise. Netball had to do something, not only to better showcase the depth of talent in Australia and even out the competition, but also to maximise its appeal to broadcasters and sponsors. So in 2016, it walked away from the ANZ Championship.
This decision is the circuit-breaker that Australian netball has been crying out for. In its place is a new eight-team national league with five existing franchises (Adelaide Thunderbirds, Melbourne Vixens, NSW Swifts, Queensland Firebirds and West Coast Fever) plus three new additions (a Melbourne-based team owned by the Collingwood Football Club, a Sunshine Coast-based team owned by the Melbourne Storm and a Western Sydney-based team jointly owned by Netball NSW and the GWS Giants). It starts this weekend, when the Giants hosts the Swifts on Saturday.
More importantly, the move has delivered the missing piece of the puzzle: a landmark five-year broadcast deal with the Nine Network and Telstra, with two live games to be played on Nine’s digital free-to-air channel GEM each Saturday night and the remaining two to be shown on Nine on delay, as well as live on Telstra TV and the Netball Live app.
Pop went the champagne corks at Netball Australia headquarters. In announcing the new broadcast agreement, Netball Australia CEO Kate Palmer declared: “Netball needs to stand up and be counted … we want to play with the big boys.” The deal is big for netball, and potentially a gamechanger for women’s sport – which we know must be seen in order to grow.
“We’re not there yet; we’re not in AFL or NRL land,” says Diamonds coach Lisa Alexander. That’s true. We’re a long way from that. But what the partnership with the Nine Network shows is that there’s been a shift in interest; decision-makers can finally see the potential in a women’s sport and the financial returns it could achieve. Eyes have been opened to the untapped pool of sponsors and advertisers who are waiting to be aligned with a fast and exciting sport.
This is hardly a revelation for those in netball, who have spent years lobbying for this kind of attention while most of what they said fell upon deaf ears. Under its previous broadcasting deal, Netball Australia’s sponsors effectively paid Network Ten to show the sport on free-to-air television. (All 72 games of the ANZ Championship were broadcast on Fox Sports, with the match of the round simulcast live on ONE at noon on Sundays.) This was seen by some as an innovative way to get netball closer to where it needed to be – a good short-term solution to the problem of invisibility – but the deal also had a whiff of desperation and submissiveness about it.
By comparison, the new broadcast arrangement gives netball primetime free-to-air coverage and more money to boost the salary cap, which was previously $270,000 per 12-player roster. This jumps to a pool of $5.4m shared among 80 players. At the very least, this will mean semi-professionalism – and for some athletes, it could mean full professionalism.
The trade-off is that the sport will change. Consider what cricket’s done over the years to enhance its appeal to broadcasters and bring viewers closer to the action. Microphones near the stumps in the 1980s set off a string of weird and wacky inventions: stump cam, Snickometer, Hawkeye, Hotspot, Spider-cam, microphones attached to players, cameras attached to helmets. Our footy codes stick microphones and cameras wherever and whenever they can; games are played in all sorts of odd timeslots, and Etihad Stadium’s roof remains closed in brilliant sunshine to keep the AFL broadcasters happy.
The way we view sport has changed immeasurably – this is the world that netball now finds itself in and, like it or not, entertainment- driven rule changes are part of it. Alexander says she’s “very pragmatic when it comes to broadcasting”, but the scoring system is sacrosanct.
“I do not wish for the purity of the game to be affected, especially the addition of a two-point shot,” she says. “This changes everything you do to prepare a team to win. It will also affect the Diamonds’ preparation for international events. Logically it just doesn’t sit with me that [the new competition with rule changes] will be any better than the ANZ Championship decider [in 2016] that went to double extra time.”
Alexander got her wish – as did the vast majority of netball people. In August 2016, Netball Australia confirmed that there would be no major rule changes for the first season of the national netball league. However, the door has been left open for the two-point shot to be introduced in year two or three of the revamped league.
In announcing Netball Australia’s decision, Palmer said: “So our big job for 2017 isn’t to change the game. It’s to expose more people to the game; to build that passion around the clubs, create great rivalries, and be very bold in stating that netball is the premier women’s code in this country.”
The new league is a victory for players: fringe players and younger players who couldn’t find a spot in the ANZ Championship will get a chance to shine; Collingwood players will train on a $500,000 sprung-floor court and breathe rarefied air in the high-altitude room; and girls who aspire to netball greatness won’t have to use their imagination – they’ll see it live in prime time on free-to-air.
But more needs to happen. Participation has never been the issue for netball and nor has winning titles. The challenge has been increasing the profile of the sport and its players in a country where male football codes and cricket gobble up so much television, radio, print and online coverage. With attitudes changing, netball has a chance to give Australian sport a real shake, but to “play with the big boys” it must stand proudly female, celebrate its differences to men’s sport and stay true to its supporter base, and so must the television coverage.
If it manages to do this, who knows what might happen – it may lead women’s sport even further into this new golden era.
This is an edited extract from Angela Pippos’ Breaking the Mould – Taking a Hammer to Sexism in Sport (Affirm Press). Available now, $29.99.
With £7.91m including £2.45m in previews, The Lego Batman Movie tops the UK box-office chart going into the half-term school holiday. The result is very comparable with the opening salvo of The Lego Movie, exactly three years ago: £8.05m including previews of £2.16m.
This time, the Warner Bros animation faced rather tougher competition in the marketplace, since Sing – which took £2.33m at the weekend – is still performing strongly. Three years ago, The Lego Movie came in against the rather less muscular Mr Peabody and Sherman, although Tinker Bell and the Pirate Fairy was also in the mix.
The Lego Movie enjoyed extraordinary word-of-mouth, and went on to achieve a total of £33.5m in the UK. Warners would presumably be delighted if The Lego Batman Movie were to match that number.
Despite landing in second place in the official comScore chart, Fifty Shades Darker grossed more than Lego Batman over the weekend period. In fact, the bonkbuster sequel’s total of £7.56m nearly matched Lego Batman’s previews-inclusive total.
Not terribly surprisingly, Fifty Shades Darker failed to match the opening weekend of 2015’s Fifty Shades of Grey, which was £13.55m. In the first place, not so many people read the second book in EL James’s erotic trilogy. In the second, a chunk of cinemagoers may have felt they had amply ticked the Fifty Shades box with the first movie. Moreover, the opening session of Fifty Shades of Grey included Valentine’s Day, which conveniently fell on a Saturday in 2015. Distributor Universal has reason to hope for a good result today (Tuesday), and in fact cinemas at the weekend were reporting strong advance bookings for Valentine’s Day to Universal.
Fifty Shades Darker has achieved the second-biggest ever UK opening for an 18-certificate film, behind only Fifty Shades of Grey. After three days, Darker is running at 56% of the level of Grey’s box office. If that carries through to the end of the run, expect Fifty Shades Darker to romp home with just under £20m.
At the weekend, the arrival of Lego Batman and Fifty Shades Darker at thousands of screens saw existing films in the market shedding sites, moving into smaller screen capacities and losing showtimes. The likes of T2 Trainspotting (down 52%) and La La Land (down 48%) suffered their biggest falls to date. But La La Land bounced back on Monday, boosted by those five Bafta wins including best film.
The week before, La La Land grossed £203,000 on the Monday. This week it took £225,000. In other words, instead of seeing box office fall by nearly half, as it did at the weekend, La La Land rose 11% on the previous Monday.
With Dev Patel’s surprise supporting actor win figuring strongly in the Bafta conversation, the boost for Lion was even bigger. At the weekend, Lion fell 13% on the previous frame, but Monday was a different story. Lion grossed £170,000 yesterday, compared to £125,000 the previous Monday, a rise of 36%.
The Monday boost for Lion was icing on the cake for a film that has held up particularly strongly ever since its release on 20 January. True, Lion has consistently grossed less than La La Land each weekend, but the gap has narrowed with each passing week. On its opening weekend, Lion grossed £3.1m less than La La Land did over that three-day period (£4.37m v £1.27m). For the latest session, the gap was just £196,000 (£949,000 v £753,000). Lion has now reached £6.4m, which is five times its opening weekend number. There looks to be a long way to go for Lion, as long as it can hold its cinema screens in this competitive marketplace.
Arriving on a platform release of £103,000 from 21 venues (including negligible previews of £2,700), Fences achieved a very healthy site average of £4,890. Although they do not appear in the official comScore chart, both Moonlight and Hidden Figures were likewise given platform releases on Friday. The respective distributors – Altitude and Fox – opted to give the films an official release date of this Friday (17 February), but they also had to ensure a release from last Friday into at least 10 cinemas in order to qualify them for this year’s Bafta awards.
Hidden Figures played in 13 multiplex venues, grossing £72,000, for a muscular average of £5,531. It also played one-offs in 19 independent sites, bringing the total for the weekend up to £83,000. Added to box office that the film has previously played during this awards season, the total for Hidden Figures is now £163,000, all of which will be added into its official opening number for the coming session.
For Moonlight, it’s a similar story. Moonlight opened on a wider platform release – 28 cinemas – although these were comparatively limited showtimes, making it tricky to make a direct comparison with Fences or Hidden Figures. The outcome was a gross of £77,000. The running total for Moonlight – including previous previews – is £193,000.
Moonlight didn’t convert any of its Bafta nominations into a win on Sunday, with even the film’s most hotly tipped nominee, Mahershala Ali, losing to Dev Patel in the supporting actor stakes. Altitude has reason to be hopeful that a different narrative will unfold at the Oscars later this month.
Fences, Hidden Figures and Moonlight all enjoy significant expansions from this Friday.
Given that Mike Mills’s 20th Century Women missed out altogether at the Bafta nominations, and scored a single Oscar nod for original screenplay, the film’s release at the weekend into the crowded sea of awards contenders looked a tad optimistic. Fans of the film were braced for a box office wipeout.
However, despite the extraordinary choices available to fans of quality cinema currently, and a surprise panning from the Guardian’s own Peter Bradshaw, the coming-of-age film opened with a very decent £60,000 from 14 sites, including £11,000 in previews. 20th Century Women expands to 45 cinemas from this Friday.
Rolling into 89 cinemas, Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk has begun with a dismal £14,700, yielding a site average of £165. The result is a long way from the expectations that were heaped on to this film when Life of Pi director Ang Lee was named as director, which is adapted from Ben Fountain’s highly acclaimed novel. Lee’s decision to film at the high frame rate of 120 per second (instead of the standard 24), and in 3D at 4K HD resolution, only added to the advance buzz. The film has so far been a box office disaster everywhere it’s been released, apart from in China and Taiwan.
Thanks to the arrival of Fifty Shades Darker and The Lego Batman Movie, takings overall are a very healthy 59% up on the previous frame, and are the fifth best for the past year. However, numbers are still down – by 12% – on the equivalent weekend a year ago, when Deadpool surprised the market with a sensational £13.7m opening (including previews). The coming weekend greets the arrival of Keanu Reeves hitman actioner John Wick: Chapter 2, which also plays Valentine’s Day previews today. The movie just opened in the US at the weekend, grossing $30m. Keanu faces off against The Great Wall, a fantasy action adventure starring Matt Damon. The film has been huge in China, but hasn’t set the box office charts on fire anywhere else. Reviews are embargoed until the last possible moment in the UK – despite the film having already released in 34 territories tracked by Box Office Mojo – which is hardly a vote of confidence from the distributor.
Also in the mix is The Founder, starring Michael Keaton as McDonald’s visionary Ray Kroc. As mentioned above, Hidden Figures and Moonlight receive their official releases, while Fences expands from its current narrow platform.
1. The Lego Batman Movie, £7,906,468 from 600 sites (new)
2. Fifty Shades Darker, £7,557,485 from 604 sites (new)
3. Sing, £2,325,281 from 601 sites. Total: £18,217,102 (3 weeks)
4. T2 Trainspotting, £1,420,910 from 516 sites. Total: £13,515,865 (3 weeks)
5. La La Land, £949,283 from 534 sites. Total: £26,497,599 (5 weeks)
6. Lion, £753,368 from 365 sites. Total: £6,427,316 (4 weeks)
7. Split, £682,691 from 368 sites. Total: £9,584,867 (4 weeks)
8. Hacksaw Ridge, £425,832 from 351 sites. Total: £4,290,940 (3 weeks)
9. Rings, £271,180 from 344 sites. Total: £1,462,257 (2 weeks)
10. The Space Between Us, £258,401 from 270 sites (new)
Jolly LLB 2, £138,076 from 66 sites
Fences, £102,688 from 21 sites
20th Century Women, £60,203 from 14 sites
Singam 3, £36,172 from three sites
Prevenge, £30,118 from 40 sites
Taxi Driver, £20,776 from eight sites (reissue)
Balu Mahi, £19,494 from 19 sites
Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk, £14,692 from 89 sites
Kung Fu Yoga, £9,714 from seven sites
LoveTrue, £7,453 from five sites
Mahi NRI, £5,039 from eight sites
Zacma, £1,629 from 10 sites
Saint Joan – NT Live, £717 from one site (event)
Thanks to comScore. All figures relate to takings in UK and Ireland cinemas.
It’s 11am in a slightly dilapidated rehearsal room on a King’s Cross side street, and I can just about overhear a discussion in which Dominic Boyce, the affable drummer of psychedelic indie-pop troupe Peace, is considering returning a recently purchased pair of vegan sandals. “In hindsight, maybe I should keep them and commit to it,” he says at one point. “Maybe they’d be good for Glastonbury. Give the people what they want.”
Today, Boyce is joined by a speedily assembled who’s who – quite literally in some cases – of indie, rehearsing for Wednesday night’s NME awards, where they will perform the Rolling Stones’ Gimme Shelter, and Buffalo Springfield’s For What It’s Worth. Rallied by the NME, the group will be joined on the night by Charli XCX, who right now is somewhere over the Atlantic, but today consists of Boyce and Sam and Harry Koisser from Peace, Olly Alexander from Years & Years, Pixie Geldof, Isaac Holman from Slaves, Izzy Baxter from Black Honey, Austin Williams and Cavan McCarthy from Swim Deep, and Joe Falconer from Circa Waves.
While you may not be overly familiar with each act’s entire back catalogue, everyone in the room today is very committed to raising money for refugees, and that’s a positive and wonderful thing. The plan is that anyone watching the performance online – or reading an article about its rehearsal – can text REFU to 70700 to donate £5 to the British charity Help Refugees. It’s the sort of thing that routinely prompts a kneejerk sneer, but it’s a simple and effective move and knees can’t sneer anyway because of biology. The morning moves slowly with dramatic highlights including a broken keyboard stand, a leaking battery, Harry Koisser being unable to see the colour red, and an absence of maracas. At one point, Baxter is handed a red, gold and green guitar strap. “I’m too white to wear that,” she observes, although it’s fair to say this is one room in London where it’s impossible to be too white for anything.
After a run-through of the songs and lunch in the pizza place across the road, we’re joined by the NME editor, Mike Williams, who has turned up to check on progress. I ask him whether this whole supergroup business might be better with a few more famous people.
“That’s a bit of a mean question,” he says. “We haven’t even approached the Dave Grohls and Lady Gagas of this world – we wanted it to be in the spirit of what Bands 4 Refugees were already doing. It wouldn’t have been right for NME to storm in and swap them out for big American artists.”
Asked to clarify the message that he’s hoping to send out by drawing awareness to the refugee crisis during the NME awards, Williams adds: “Politicians and people with influential voices are being irresponsible with their words and changing the views of otherwise decent people. There’s a negative and demonised view of vulnerable people not that different from us who have been badly affected by wars and terror attacks. We want to show a bit of the reality.”
It’s cheering – but also a bit of a rum old do – that in the current climate, the first major creative statement from the global music community has come in the form of the new Katy Perry single, Chained to the Rhythm, a song about echo chambers and numbness that she has described as “purposeful pop”. But isn’t it also frustrating that the best song choices for Wednesday night’s show are both more than 50 years old?
“A song like Gimme Shelter is incredibly powerful and the message will resonate with everyone in the room on the night and watching on Facebook Live,” Williams says. “That said, bands have told me in the past they don’t want to speak out because the internet is so unforgiving, but it feels like people have got to get over that now.”
Alexander chooses his words either far more carefully or far less carefully, depending on how you look at it. “The message I’d give Theresa May is that she should resign and take her entire cabinet with her,” he says. “Someone else should have a chance now. There’s lots of talk of Clive Lewis of late, isn’t there? Is he good? I don’t know. Maybe he’s just young and a bit hot.”
Alexander initially felt wary about becoming involved in Bands 4 Refugees. “A little bit of me always worries about the perceived vanity of ‘I’m supporting a cause’, but worrying what people think actually is a vanity problem,” he says. Currently midway through writing Years & Years’ second album, he acknowledges the pressure to write about world events. “It feels like that choice is more important now than it was a couple of years ago,” he says. “You could write a song about love, and people would go: ‘We’re living in a dumpster fire apocalypse and this is what you’ve chosen to write about?’”
A recent writing session helped put things in perspective. “I felt like I didn’t want to write about politics simply because I felt like I should, but then last week I wrote a song with the Pet Shop Boys. It’s inspired by a fairground in Margate called Dreamland, but while I was writing it, Neil Tennant said to me: ‘This makes sense right now with Trump closing the borders,’ and the song became something that touched on what’s going on in the world. I’d write lyrics and he’d say: ‘No, it needs to be more direct.’ He’d take a simple line and interject a subversive political statement. That’s the challenge as a pop writer, to do both at once.”
Baxter is more plain: “It’s important not to be like fucking Bono going: ‘You should do this.’ As an artist, you don’t have to answer all the questions, but you can still pose them.”
Most of today’s lineup has been assembled by Koisser, and while he’s keen not to take credit for dragging the other artists here (“All I’ll say is that I’ve probably been the most annoying person”), he hopes he can help start a bigger conversation among artists. “I’d like someone who’s a lot more important than us to see it and be inspired to do something gigantic on a level we can’t,” he says. Of course, if – meanness alert! – today’s supergroup did indeed want some more famous people, it might have made sense to ask for guidance from someone with experience in that field. Someone with a penchant for calling up superstars and getting them in a room in order to knock out a charity banger.
I mean, I wonder out loud, does anyone here today have any such contacts? It’s hard to know where to start, really. Isn’t it, Pixie Geldof?
“One or two names come to mind,” she smiles, a little wearily. “Yes, something like that may have happened before. And, yes, I see where you’re going with that. I don’t know what his plans are, but, yeah, I mean ... Band Aid is a Christmas song. Although I do like listening to the Tammy Wynette Christmas album throughout the year.” She’s clearly warming to the idea. “OK!” she eventually says. “I’ll have a word. Maybe. Oh, I don’t know.”
Back in the rehearsal room, Holman is handing out lollipops and, with each new vocalist added to the song, Gimme Shelter is sounding more and more unstable, like a pop Buckaroo. But by 5pm, it’s sounding pretty good. At one point, the band stops to debate whether the audience will clap along during the breakdown in For What It’s Worth. “Ignore the tables,” is one suggestion. “They’ll be too busy with their free dinners.” Someone else offers: “It all depends on how drunk they are.”
The group are limited to performing a faithful rendition of at least one of their chosen songs, a decision explained when I put it to Koisser that a tropical house version of Gimme Shelter might have made more impact in 2017. He says they needed the Rolling Stones’ approval to perform the song, “and there’s a thing that says you’re not allowed to change the genre or style. It has to be the same arrangement, structure, genre – and you can’t change the lyrics. Even if we wanted to do a tropical house version – and trust me, that went through my mind – we wouldn’t be able to.”
In the past, Mick Jagger has described Gimme Shelter as “a kind of end-of-the-world song, really. It’s apocalypse.” I pull Boyce to one side and ask: is the world about to end? He thinks for a while.
“I hope not,” he says eventually. “But it feels like the start of the end of something.”
The end of what?
“Humanity?”
He’s starting to look a bit troubled. “I mean I’m hoping it’s not,” he clarifies. “But something’s about to snap. It would be good to give it all another go, wouldn’t it? Start afresh.”
He’s sounding quite chipper about the prospect of life as we know it coming to an end. In fairness, the prospect of global apocalypse isn’t exactly unappealing these days. It would be great if that could wait until after the NME awards, though.
As a book group we were motivated by the article by Danuta Kean (Report, 8 February) to do the same as the “mystery benefactor” she describes by giving away copies of George Orwell’s Nineteen Eighty-Four, Margaret Atwood’s The Handmaid’s Tale and Erik Larson’s In the Garden of Beasts. A local bookshop in Norwich has agreed for us to buy the books at cost price. We intend to pile them up in the shop with a poster announcing the date they are to be given away. We will encourage recipients to pass on their copies once they’ve read them. With luck, this will help us reach beyond the bubble of those who already share our opposition to Donald Trump. We encourage other book groups to follow suit and spread the Read Up! Fight Back! campaign begun in Haight-Ashbury, California.Name and address supplied
• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com
• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters
Publication of rightwing controversialist Milo Yiannopoulos’s memoir Dangerous has been delayed until June, so that he can include details of the controversy surrounding his book deal and the recent student protests that resulted in cancelled speaking events.
In a statement, Yiannopoulos said he had asked his publisher to postpone the launch, originally scheduled for March, to enable him to write about “the craziness and rioting” at three sites in the US: the Berkeley and Davis campuses at the University of California, and the Seattle campus at the University of Washington.
“It would be absurd for me to publish a book without some discussion of the insanity of the last few weeks,” said the far-right provocateur, who is technology editor of Breitbart News. Breitbart’s former executive chair, Steve Bannon, is now President Trump’s chief strategist.
Yiannopoulos’s speaking tour at university campuses has been dogged by protests and violent clashes between his supporters, police and protesters.
The book was due to be published on 14 March by Threshold Editions, an imprint of Simon & Schuster (S&S) that specialises in rightwing writing. It is now set to appear on 13 June.
Dangerous has proved a major headache for the publishing house after it paid Yiannopoulos a reported $250,000 (£203,000) advance. Though the writer had claimed the deal was cooked up over lunch with the publisher, it has since emerged that it had been shopped around other New York publishing houses, who had not found it commercial enough to warrant a substantial offer. A vociferous backlash followed his signing, with authors, critics and booksellers voicing concern about his involvement in far-right politics and alleged trolling of opponents through social media. The British-born writer was permanently banned from Twitter in 2016, after claims he had incited followers to send abusive messages to the Ghostbusters actor Leslie Jones. He has also likened feminism to cancer and attacked transgender people as “retarded”.
Dismissing him as “a clickbait grifter who has made a name for himself spewing hate speech”, Adam Morgan, editor of the Chicago Review of Books, said his publication would not review any books published by S&S in protest at the deal.
Last month, in what was widely seen as a damage-limitation exercise, S&S president and CEO Carolyn Reidy wrote to authors to reassure them that Yiannopoulos’s book would not contain hate speech. Instead, it would be “a substantive examination” of the issues surrounding political correctness and free speech, she wrote. Despite this, essayist and feminist author Roxane Gay announced that she would withdraw her forthcoming book from S&S because of the Yiannopoulos deal.
It is not the first book mooted by the journalist, who remains an influential figure in the so-called “alt-right” movement. In 2014, Yiannopoulos claimed he was writing a book about Gamergate, and in 2015, a book called The Sociopaths of Silicon Valley. Neither book appeared.
He has also found it hard to find a publisher in the UK, after S&S’s British subsidiary walked away from a deal. Insiders in the big four publishing houses said he was not well known in the UK and doubted the book could work without a significant promotional platform.
The restaurateur, presenter and cookery writer Prue Leith has said judging The Great British Bake Off would be her “dream” following reports she was being lined up to replace Mary Berry when the show returns on Channel 4 later this year.
Sources told the Sun on Monday evening that Leith was seen as a “like for like” replacement for Berry, who chose to stay with the BBC after Bake Off makers Love Productions signed a £25m a year deal to take the show to Channel 4.
Leith said she believed she was one of two potential judges left in the running to partner Paul Hollywood on the show, but had not yet been told whether she had got the job.
“I’m certainly one of the runners. I can wish. I can dream,” she said on Tuesday. “I’ve had two auditions with them and lots of meetings. So I mean I think I’m close but I know there are two people in the running. One other person.”
“Of course I’d love to do it. Who wouldn’t want to do it? I’ve known Mary for years and she loved it.”
A Channel 4 spokesperson refused to confirm whether Leith would be joining the show, saying the presenting lineup would be announced in due course and Love Productions later issued a similar statement.
Hollywood is the only member of the original on-screen team to follow Bake Off to Channel 4 after presenters Sue Perkins and Mel Giedroyc also said they would stay with the BBC.
Numerous names have been put forward to fill the void. Davina McCall, Richard Ayoade, Dawn French and Jennifer Saunders have all been named as potential hosts, while chefs ranging from Delia Smith to Michel Roux Jr have been tipped as replacement judges.
According to the Sun, 76-year-old Leith is seen as an ideal replacement for Berry due to her similar background and the fact that, at 76, she is the same age Berry was when the show debuted.
Leith said she had not watched Bake Off “much” but was a fan.
“I mean I haven’t watched it that much but it’s been going for what, eight years or something, so I’ve certainly seen a lot of it and it has a lovely atmosphere,” she said at an event to help people suffering from dementia, A Very Special Tea.
“I don’t like cookery shows which are all about humiliating people. What’s so good is that the contestants, however disappointed they are, they always know that it is fair. Paul is very fair. He’s lovely.”
Leith has worked with Channel 4 as a judge on competitive cooking show My Kitchen Rules UK, which aired late last year. She was also a judge for 11 years on the BBC’s Great British Menu, on which Berry appeared as a guest. She stood down in October, weeks after being made chancellor of Queen Margaret University in Edinburgh.
Leith, born in South Africa, opened her Michelin-starred restaurant, called Leith’s, in 1969 before going on to found cookery school Leiths School of Food and Wine in 1975. She later sold the business, retaining only the restaurant. She has written 12 cookery books, six novels and a memoir, Relish.
The Sun’s source said: “In cookery circles, she’s practically royalty.”
Bake Off is expected to return to TV screens this year after the BBC said it would not exercise a “hold-back” clause stopping Channel 4 from airing its version of the show until 2018.
“Always different, always the same”: John Peel’s famous description of The Fall applies equally well to the work of the melancholy Finnish minimalist Aki Kaurismäki. The 59-year-old has been writing and directing for more than 30 years, scarcely tweaking his formula of woebegone absurdism. His films, which include the knockabout Leningrad Cowboys Go America and the poignant Cannes Grand Prix-winner The Man Without a Past, are mostly set in the Finland that time forgot, where there is scant evidence that things have progressed beyond the 1950s. Vodka, rockabilly, Brylcreem and smokes are the order of the day; they are the only things that lighten life’s load. Along with kindness and companionship, which sprout unexpectedly in the gloom like spring daffodils in February.
Kaurismäki’s The Other Side of Hope builds on the minuscule changes present in his 2011 film, Le Havre, which concerned an ageing shoe shiner who shelters a young African migrant on the run from police. That hot-off-the-press story was infused with the director’s usual sensibility, resulting in a mix of the urgently topical and the snugly familiar. This pleasing effect continues in the new picture, which interlaces the struggles of two men who have fled their homes. The first is Khaled (Sherwan Haji), a Syrian asylum seeker who arrives in Helsinki as a stowaway on a coal freighter. The second escapee doesn’t undertake quite such a hazardous journey. Wikström (Sakari Kuosmanen) walks out on his alcoholic wife, wins a fortune at poker and buys a failing restaurant called the Golden Pint, which has cobwebs on the crockery and a cook who sleeps standing up with a cigarette between his lips.
The Finn and the Syrian meet eventually, bopping one another on the nose and staunching the blood with matching tufts of tissue paper. Only in a Kaurismäki film could this represent the start of a beautiful friendship. Wikström may be a grizzled old potato-face (“Do your friends call you Wally?” someone asks. “I have no friends,” he snaps.) But, as with Kaurismäki himself, the lugubriousness only makes the occasional shafts of light shine that much brighter. The older man becomes a protector of sorts to Khaled, mirroring the relationship in Le Havre. He organises a forged ID card and gives him a job at the restaurant as it undergoes an ill-advised makeover into a sushi joint, where wasabi is served in eye-watering scoops like pistachio ice-cream. Wikström also tries to help Khaled find his sister, who got left behind en route.
So how did he make it all the way to Finland? “Easily. No one wants to see me.” The film, on the other hand, goes to great lengths to illuminate the experience of Khaled and others like him. Without sacrificing his usual drollery, Kaurismäki explores the humdrum reality of what it might mean to be a refugee, and ends up finding common ground between these lost souls and the usual outsiders and misfits who populate his work. Hearing an Iraqi refugee giving advice to Khaled (look happy, he says, because “the melancholy ones are always deported first”), it’s easy to see how this very modern story is consistent with the Kaurismäki back catalogue.
For all the film’s gentleness, this is no idealised world. Khaled has some upsetting run-ins with fascist thugs – on one occasion he is saved by a raggedy posse of rough-sleepers, but the film doesn’t pretend things always turn out so sweetly. This is, after all, a portrait of loneliness and disenfranchisement. Live musical performances on street corners and in bars – twangy blues and rock’n’roll, wistful folk music – express emotions that don’t always come easily to these reined-in, buttoned-up dreamers with faraway eyes.
There aren’t really any surprises in The Other Side of Hope; it’s more like witnessing the ongoing cultivation of a humane philosophy. But the film is devilishly funny, economically constructed (the demise of Wikström’s marriage is shown in wordless images) and decked out in the director’s dismal palette of cobalt blue, moss green and burnt-marmalade orange. (Should the film work ever dry up, he could make a killing as an interior designer for doleful hipsters.) If there is one mild shock, it is the absence of the Kaurismäki family dog, Laika, who always usually puts in an appearance. Is she dead? Retiring? Has she been deported? It could be a story fit for his next film.
Police officers kicked down the door of grime artist Stormzy’s house after it was mistakenly reported he was burgling his own home.
The rapper, real name Michael Omari, was woken in the early hours of Tuesday morning to the sounds of the police smashing down the door of his Chelsea house, which he had only recently moved into.
He tweeted a picture of the wreckage, writing: “Woke up to Feds destroying my front door coz apparently I’m a burglar who burgles his own home. @MetPolice need your bank details still.”
Scotland Yard said they were responding to a report of conspiracy to burgle and had thought the flat was empty. It was only after they had forced their way into the property around 1am on Tuesday that they realised it was legally occupied.
They said they stayed at Omari’s house until it was secured. The Met also responded to him on Twitter, telling the rapper: “If you wish to make a complaint please DM [direct message] us so we can take some more details. Thanks.”
A Met police spokesperson said: “Police were called to an address in West Brompton at 00:55hrs on Tuesday, 14 February to a report of a conspiracy to burgle a ground-floor flat, believed to have been vacant. “Officers attended and forced entry to the property, and found there to be two lawful occupants inside. Officers remained at the property until it was made secure.“Officers have since been in further communication with the complainant.”
The 23-year-old, who is set to release his debut album this month, has been outspoken in the past about racism and the police.
“Don’t be the stupid idiot who thinks because we live in the UK that black people don’t experience racism from the police, don’t be so flipping naive,” he wrote.
“We have black brothers and sisters dying in the States and we’d be cowards to just brush it off, this is all of our problems. That could easily be me or my little brother or my sisters.”
Stormzy is among those nominated for British Breakthrough Artist at this year’s Brit awards. The ceremony was criticised last year for ignoring grime artists such as Stormzy and his contemporaries Skepta and Kano, who are also nominated this year.
Rough sleeping has doubled in the past five years, with increasing numbers of women: women who are often existing or expectant mothers, fleeing violence, or who have disabilities or health problems.
Homeless women are even more vulnerable on the street than men. Research by Crisis, the homelessness charity, found 58% of women sleeping rough had been intimidated or threatened with violence and force in the past 12 months compared to 42% of men.
Channel 4’s Dispatches programme, Undercover: Britain’s Homeless Scandal, has put local councils to the test, after claims that they are unable to cope and are wrongly turning women away.
In many instances, according to the programme, women have been turned away without being fully assessed or prevented from making a homeless application – despite presenting with mental health issues, learning difficulties or fleeing domestic abuse.
Drawing on a Crisis survey 458 recent or current rough sleepers in England and Wales, Dispatches has reported that:
“Gatekeeping” refers to deliberate attempts to prevent people accessing services in a council: in the case of housing, it means taking steps so people don’t, or can’t, fill in forms requesting help and registering their homelessness. If people are told the council won’t, and can’t, help them, they will often leave without filling in any forms and do not show up on the system. The Localism Act, introduced in 2011, also applied much stricter criteria to people’s eligibility for qualifying for housing help.
The practice is illegal, but is common, according to homeless people. Southwark council was told to cease and desist gatekeeping in 2012, and admitted to the practice. Reports of gatekeeping have risen since the deep central government cuts began in 2012, both due to cuts, and the government making it easier to gatekeep through the strict criteria of the Localism Act.
In the programme, one woman says to camera: “The housing officers have become desensitised, almost to an extreme.” Telling locals to look for private rooms, go to private landlords, stay in friends’ living rooms rather than ask the council to house you is a common method of gatekeeping.
The Dispatches programme estimates that there are a total of 68,000 women in temporary accommodation, emergency shelters and sleeping on the streets. The most recent quarterly statistics published by the government in September 2016 recorded 74,630 households in temporary accommodation at the end of September 2016. This marks the 21st quarterly increase in the seasonally-adjusted number of households in temporary accommodation. Of these households, 53,370 (72%) were placed in temporary accommodation in London. The number of families with dependent children and/or pregnant woman placed in B&B-style accommodation increased from 630 at the end of March 2010 to 3,390 at the end of September 2016.
Rising rents and stagnant wages, mean many more people are unable to keep up payments on private rental accommodation, and are evicted. Swingeing cuts to councils mean their ability to house people presenting to them with a housing need is limited.
The housing crisis means that many vulnerable people, including Theresa May’s “just about managing” families, can easily end up not managing at all, and facing homelessness. Right to buy has meant social housing stock has dwindled, while the share of homes in the private rental market has increased.
Sign up for your free Guardian Housing network newsletter with news and analysis sent direct to you on the last Friday of the month. Follow us: @GuardianHousing
My friend Janet Blackman, who has died aged 82, was an internationalist, teacher, academic and community arts advocate.
She worked tirelessly to promote the aims of the United Nations. Whether chairing a policy review sub-committee with Lord (David) Hannay in attendance, or a branch meeting for local people, Janet welcomed everyone’s opinion. She carried the UN charter in her handbag and was always prepared to demonstrate how an international problem could be peacefully resolved through the UN.
An early member of the United Nations Association, she was chair of UNA international service, and for many years chaired the UNA annual conference. When two Jehovah’s Witnesses came to her door and asked her whether she understood what was wrong with the world, they tottered back down the driveway 20 minutes later, Janet having given them a brisk summary of the international situation and the steps needed to resolve global difficulties. She turned to me with her bright smile and said: “Well, they did ask.”
Janet was born in Guildford, Surrey. Her father, Percy, known as Jack, was a railwayman, children’s entertainer and staunch member of the railway workers’ union Aslef. Her mother, May (nee Chapman), kept the home, which was a magnet for those in trouble. The socialist values of her upbringing informed her entire life.
After leaving Guildford county school, Janet studied history at Bedford College, London, and in 1962 became a lecturer at the University of Hull, where she stayed until retiring in 2001. For many years she was in charge of admissions, latterly becoming head of department.
In 1976, with her colleague Keith Nield, Janet started the international journal Social History. She became its sole editor upon his death in 2010, and retired from the editor’s chair in 2014. Her particular gift as an editor was to enable contributors to see deeper possibilities in their work. An unpromising article could be transformed into a major study with her insight and encouragement.
In 1970 Janet, with the playwright Alan Plater, helped to found Hull Arts Centre. She was chair during the 1970s and early 80s, during which it developed into the Humberside theatre, a hive of artistic creativity. Youth theatre, pottery, art exhibitions, music-making, community plays, a resident acting company and visiting companies made Spring Street a vibrant place.
In her retirement Janet was an enthusiastic and faithful supporter of cultural events, especially music, in and around Hull. She was thrilled when it was named UK City of Culture 2017.
Her casework for the Association of University Teachers meant that she locked horns with the Hull University administration. Many colleagues were able to continue their work as a consequence of her commitment and skill.
Janet had a gift for hospitality at her beautiful Victorian home in Cottingham. My children and many others enjoyed cooking, sewing, painting, gardening and being listened to attentively. She was still providing a haven for teenagers into her 80s.
Janet is survived by her sister, Diana.
At a time when the word ‘immigrant’ has become more loaded in America than ever, Irish comedian Maeve Higgins – who moved to the US three years ago – has launched a podcast full of immigrant stories, told by the people who lived them.
Higgins talks to people from Syria, Mexico, China, Dominican Republic, Nigeria and elsewhere, about their journeys to the US and how they differ from her own. “I can say ‘I’m an immigrant’ and people will say ‘No, you’re an expat’!” she says. “It’s almost coded now – that immigrant means a brown person; a person coming from an economic disadvantage. But that’s really nonsense.”
It is also a nonsense, says Higgins, that immigration is the huge threat it was made out to be during Donald Trump’s election campaign. “The two groups Trump targeted were Mexican and Muslims, but more Mexican people are leaving the US than coming in,” she says. “It’s such a lie.”
Higgins’ guests have arrived in the US from all over the globe. There’s Nayyef, an out gay man who lives in Seattle after having to flee Iraq, his family and his boyfriend because of the threats he received for working as a translator for the US army. And Chinese-American octogenarian Roz Khoo, whose activism and philanthropy has enabled more than 1,000 girls in China to go to school and on to higher education.
Finding an undocumented immigrant who can safely speak on record, however, proved tricky. “I wanted to feature someone undocumented, but I also wanted them to already be public because, you know, that’s dangerous,” says Higgins. She ended up meeting Dan-el Padilla Peralta, who went “from Santo Domingo to a homeless shelter in the Bronx, on to Oxford University” and is now an assistant professor of classics at Princeton, while still undocumented. (His appeal has been supported by everyone from the Clintons to the dean of Harvard).
“In the podcast he responds directly to Jeff Sessions, our new attorney general, who said that Dominicans have nothing to offer the US,” says Higgins. “And when Da-nel was an eight-year-old homeless boy, it may seem that way. But how do you measure how much somebody is worth? Where does humanity fit into that calculation?”
The idea for Maeve in America came from a trip to Iraq last year, where Higgins took part in a comedy workshop in Erbil. “I knew immigration is the thing I care most about, but I don’t think comedy works when you just preach, so I wasn’t sure how to do it,” she says. “Then in Iraq I met my peers – comedy is a baby industry there, but there are sketch writers and satirists all operating under really tough times. They were keeping going, using comedy.”
As well as the dark humour, there is a vital need to share the small, familiar details that remind us that immigrants are simply people: that they text their partners, buy groceries, snore at night and laugh at their mums. Which is why the straight-in-your-ear intimacy of a podcast works so well. “In the election, we found that people who placed immigration as one of their key reasons for voting Trump are least likely to live close to or know an immigrant,” says Higgins. “It’s a fear of the unknown. So it’s important to show people that this person buys coffee, or is a really good aunt, or watches Queer As Folk. I can’t believe it’s come to this. But for people who don’t know an immigrant, it is a good way to meet them.”
The day after we speak, Higgins was travelling to Friendship Park in San Diego, on the border with Tijuana, to record season two of the show. “It’s basically the border wall – it’s Trump’s dream but it already exists,” says Higgins. “This wall is open between 10am and 2pm on weekends, so people on the Mexican side can see their families who have US papers. The most contact you can have is your baby’s finger through the gate. We’re going to meet people who are being deported.”
Images of Friendship Park show families standing on either side of a huge metal fence, the wire mesh throwing shadows across the faces of babies, fathers, brothers. “Until you stand there and see it yourself, it’s easy to use phrases like ‘sent back’,” says Higgins. “This isn’t an abstract threat Trump is making – it’s very real.”
While interviewing Khoo, who was one of just 3,000 Chinese people allowed into the US during the brief lifting of the Chinese ban in the second world war, Higgins was stunned by the contemporary relevance of her story. “When I heard about Trump’s travel ban I thought that simply wasn’t possible. But talking to her, I learned that it is.”
Maeve in America first came out during the US election campaign. “Because Trump was so virulently anti-immigrants, I felt this new charge,” says Higgins. “A lot of people don’t know what’s going to happen to them. We’re interviewing a recipient of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. The big fear is not only that Trump will stop the programme – he’s said he will – but that he has a list of all these millions of people, their fingerprints and their addresses. That’s a very frightening reality.”
Perhaps surprisingly, there is also a great deal of pro-American sentiment in the podcast; what the US president might even call patriotism. “If you want to see what’s good about America, the people who honestly seem to love it the most are immigrants,” says Higgins. “Our Syrian guest gets a kick out of criticising Trump because he can speak freely here. That’s something people literally die for. The American Dream isn’t real for many people, but for immigrants it is still real. You can come here from somewhere where it’s not possible to go to college as a woman and get an education.”
Despite Trump’s presidency, Higgins has no intention of leaving the US – and will keep introducing us to the very people Americans are told they must fear. “There are many beautiful things still possible in America,” she says. “And if you look through an immigrant’s eyes, you can really see them.”
• Maeve in America is produced by First Look Media and available on iTunes. Season two starts on 14 February.
The clarinettist Gervase de Peyer, who has died aged 90, first made his mark with a BBC broadcast of the Mozart concerto at the age of 16, while still a schoolboy. He went on to become the outstanding player of his generation, developing a warm, flexible sound that made extensive use of vibrato, particularly in the lower register, and inspired many new compositions.
He appeared with chamber orchestras – the London Mozart Players from 1949, the Goldsbrough Orchestra and the London Chamber Orchestra – and symphony orchestras – the Royal Philharmonic and Philharmonia. Then he became principal clarinet of the London Symphony Orchestra (1955-72), which also brought solo opportunities. He made his US debut with the Mozart concerto on an LSO tour with Georg Solti conducting, and recorded it with the orchestra twice.
Chamber music was an important field to him. In 1950 he became a member of the newly founded Melos Ensemble, and continued to play with them for the next 24 years, making many recordings, including the quintets by Mozart, Brahms and Arthur Bliss, the last with the composer present. The Mozart he also recorded with the Amadeus Quartet.
Several works were written for him as a soloist: from his lifelong friend Joseph Horovitz came a Concertante for Clarinet and Strings (1948) and a Sonatina for Clarinet and Piano (1981); from Alun Hoddinott came a concerto (1953), of which Gervase gave the first performance with the Hallé under Sir John Barbirolli, and a sonata (1967). Gervase gave the first performance of Thea Musgrave’s concerto (1968) with the BBC Symphony Orchestra under Colin Davis. This work called on the the soloist to move around within the orchestra to link up with the various sections, something made possible by Gervase’s flair for performing from memory, which he did almost invariably. Berthold Goldschmidt, Arnold Cooke, William Mathias and Edwin Roxburgh also wrote for him.
Born in London, Gervase was the son of two singers: his mother, Edith (nee Bartlett), gave up her career after her children were born; his father, Esme, taught singing and sometimes performed at Covent Garden, and Gervase came close to following the same career.
After the King Alfred school, Hampstead, and Bedales, in Petersfield, Hampshire, Gervase won a scholarship to the Royal College of Music in 1944 as a pianist, and took his ARCM exams in his first year. His time at the college was interrupted by national service (1946-48) and playing in a Royal Marine band and broadcasting on the forces network revived his enthusiasm for the clarinet. He returned to the RCM and continued studying the instrument with Frederick Thurston, at whose suggestion he went on to study in Paris with Louis Cahuzac, from whom he learned a great deal about performance artistry and communication. Not wishing to imitate the tone quality of either great player, he began to develop an individual sound.
Meeting the pianist Charles Wadsworth while playing at the Spoleto Festival of Two Worlds in Italy led to Gervase becoming the clarinettist of the Lincoln Center Chamber Music Society in New York (1969-89). At first he tried to combine living in the US with maintaining his position as principal with the LSO. However, his frequent absences meant that he had to relinquish that position after four years in favour of Jack Brymer.
Gervase gave performances of the concertos by Aaron Copland and Paul Hindemith with each composer conducting, and did the same for the US premiere of the concerto by Jean Françaix. When playing at the BBC with various orchestras and ensembles he got to know Robert Simpson and told him he would like to try his hand at conducting. Simpson offered him a concert with the LSO Wind Ensemble, for which Gervase was somewhat unprepared, saying he “felt a real idiot”. Nevertheless he persevered: a recording of Richard Strauss’s Suite and Sonatina with the LSO Wind Ensemble and more conducting in London followed. In America he conducted his own Melos Sinfonia of Washington, which he founded in 1992, and the Concerto Soloists of Philadelphia.
Although largely absent from the British musical scene once resident in the US, he toured both the UK and mainland Europe with the Australian pianist Gwenneth Pryor, giving recitals to packed audiences well into his 70s. He also released a series of seven CDs of significant pieces from the clarinet repertoire, including some popular and jazz works, in collaboration with his son, Mervyn, and his 80th birthday concert at the Wigmore Hall was a sell-out.
In 1950 he married Sylvia Southcombe, a cellist, and in addition to Mervyn they had two daughters, Lorrayn and Janine. They divorced in 1971, and later that year Gervase married the mezzo-soprano Susan Daniel. They divorced in 1979, and the following year he married Katia Perret Aubry, a dancer and movement therapist, and so became stepfather to her daughter, Valerie. Katia survives him, along with his children and three grandchildren.
• Gervase de Peyer, clarinettist, born 11 April 1926; died 4 February 2017
It was a print given to the local chippy by an arty, black-haired teenager who lived round the corner and for many years it was proudly displayed in the most obvious place: above the fryers.
More than five decades later, David Hockney’s important early lithograph Fish and Chip Shop is to be sold by Christie’s in London next month.
Murray Macaulay, the auction house’s head of prints, said it was an important and rare object given added poignancy by its backstory. “There is something wonderful about a local chippy with a rare Hockney hanging above the fryer.”
The 17-year-old Hockney was studying at the Bradford School of Art when his regular visitsto the Sea Catch fish and chip shop in Eccleshill provided some inspiration.
The artwork shows a smart young Hockney, pre-peroxide, leaning on the counter as his food is prepared by owners Hayden and Janet Smith, who were friends and neighbours of the Hockney family.
Hockney hand made five or six prints and, as a token of his appreciation, gave one to the Smiths, who displayed it above the fryers – “not that advisable for a work on paper,” cautioned Macaulay – until the shop’s closure in 1970.
Fish and Chip Shop was one of three lithographs Hockney made in 1954 and was an early foray into printmaking, something which became an important part of his career.
Macaulay said it was a wonderful image, although not one bursting with the vibrant colours for which Hockney, the current subject of a retrospective at Tate Britain, is known.
“This is before he has been to America and his palette is much more subdued, but quite warm and appealing. I think it has the early beginnings of what marks him out as a great artist; so much of his art is about people and people who are significant to him. It is a thread that has run throughout his career.”
The print was displayed proudly in the Smith home after they retired and has been passed down through the family. It has an estimate of £6,000-8,000 and will be sold on 29 March.
Macaulay hopes the emergence of the print will rekindle memories from people who went to the same chip shop. “I wonder if customers of the Sea Catch remember it hanging there when they were getting their fish and chips. Did they think it was special? Or was it a familiar picture of an everyday Bradford scene by David, Laura and Kenneth’s artistic son? It would be great to hear some recollections.”
On the subject of the travel ban, much of the rhetoric coming out of Trump’s administration has focused on the dangers posed by immigrants. This devastating but ultimately heartwarming story by Iranian writer Mohammed Tolouei, told from the point of view of a four-year-old, conveys to us what it is like from the other side, that may not be so readily apparent to those who’ve never been forced to flee their countries. To be reckoned with, above all, in any decision to migrate, is the pain of uprooting from one’s homeland.
This short story marks the first of many in an extensive showcase we hope to bring you, spotlighting new writing—and new translations—from the seven countries Trump intends to ban. If you’d like to see more of this showcase, there’s still a week left to pitch in to our fundraiser here. If you are an author who identifies as being from Iraq, Syria, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen (or someone who translates such authors)—and would like to submit work for consideration, please get in touch at editors@asymptotejournal.com.
—Lee Yew Leong, Editor-in-Chief, Asymptote
*****
We lived in a house of closed doors. The door to the veranda was closed. The third room’s door was closed. The bifolding doors to the hall were closed–we had placed an American sofa in front of them. The door of the big bathroom was closed. The basement’s door was closed. The door of the toilet in the yard was closed. The door opening to the ridge roof was closed. And so was the door of the large hall all over the springs and falls and winters because we never had enough oil to heat up the whole place. Only in summers the doors opened and I could play ping pong with my mother with the ping pong table in there. She put a bedstead below my feet so that I could reach up the table and then she tried not to strike hard returns. My mother was Iranian Girls’ Schools Champion and fond of penhold grip of the racket, while I favored shakehand. We lived in a world in which people followed certain ideologies even for how to grip a racket, and from the very beginning I sided with the Western party.
Our styles were totally different. My mother used to hit short, tight topspins while my hits were rather long and loose. I was more at ease with sidespins while my mother made better topspins. Yet in spite of all the trophy cups Mother had received, I won because of my playing style — the victorious western style. Mother still followed Eastern methods, yet Father wanted to take us to Denmark, a place in the West that ironically paid living subsidies, unemployment compensation and allowance for the children like most socialist countries. And in order to convince my mother to leave, each day he locked up more and more doors of our house.
Like many other frivolities, my father’s wish to go to Denmark seemed a whimsical dream. Nights when my father bragged about his new discoveries of Danish government subsidies for gypsies and dissidents, as well as for the displaced and the unsupervised, Mother just kept silent, and agreed to come along with us to the Metropol Photographer’s to take a pass photo. In that photo Mother wears a small scarf and a long gown similar to a manteau–the term, however, was a new concept for ordinary women in the year 1983, women who were neither partisans nor did they belong to kamikaze Fadais or militant Hezbollah. She wears a crocheted shawl with large knitted flowers on her shoulders holding one angle in her fist. The three-year-old Sarah wears a babushka, a muffler and a bloated anorak. Pressing his arm against my mother’s, my father wears a closefitting turtleneck under his leather coat. I wear a woolen pullover marked by well-knitted shapes of a boat and two V-shaped birds flying in its sky. We were a family preparing for icebound Denmark.
My father’s plan was to raise us somewhere far from the dangers of war, and when we came of age we could decide whether to stay in Denmark or return home. My mother’s plan was to kill time. She wanted to postpone it as much as possible until my father changed his mind about going to Denmark, the way he did with a thousand other plans that had been left undone, such as launching a chicken farm, a silkworm farm, or a diaper factory; making an analog burglar alarm for automobiles or a 250-ampere three-phase box; raising caviar fish in a cage; starting a chocolate packaging factory; producing synthetic resin; or grinding a 120-mm artillery bullet.
Mother wanted to add the Denmark plan to Father’s list of unfulfilled dreams, and that is why she said nothing either in agreement or disagreement. But why Denmark, was her only objection made in the first days of the suggestion as if all that mattered to her was the destination and not the unavoidable decision to leave.
My father sat on a stool, washing my little sister in a tub located in the middle of the room. We had no oil, so the water heater could not be used. He scratched his face with the back of his elbow. That was how my father behaved whenever he tried to make an effective speech. He would create a big pause between the question and the answer, perhaps by standing up and leaving to fetch a glass of water, picking up the remote control of the television and turning it off, or simply rubbing his elbow on his face.
“A mother remains the same mother; she always sees her baby in the shape it was born. But a father grows up along with his kid. He grows up with all the things the kid wants. He knows it when the napkins are changed; he knows the time to buy pencils and notebooks for the growing kid, and or the time the grown-up kid wants a car or a wife. You’d have asked me to leave if you had ever realized such things,” my father said.
Mother said nothing and instead followed her own plan; wasting time always worked in the case of my father.
Genetics, Mendel discovered, programs human beings. Darwin also said man is subject to Environment’s whims while Marx remarked that History exerts control over one’s fate. They say even God has plans for man. Then how would one know which of these programs are useful for one’s life? My program in that time was clear-cut; I had planned to listen to my parents, to be polite, not to chew my nails, to place my straight hair behind my ears so that they would not rush down in front of my eyes, to write down words I found in the children’s Oxford Picture Dictionary on yellow cards, and every night my father added the Danish equivalents he found in his English-Danish dictionary on pink cards. I knew that the English word ‘dog’ was ‘hund’ in Danish, and that ‘book’ equalled ‘bog’. Only the word ‘mother’ remained alike; it was ‘mor’ in Danish and resembled its equivalent in my Rashti dialect.
My mother wasted time as long as she could and when she couldn’t, she just refused to climb up the stairs to the airplane. She stayed motionless on the runway and never went up. The Turkish Air Boeing flew to Copenhagen without us and we took the airport bus back to the flight hall. Mother sat on the black cabin briefcase. Zia wanted to pretend that he had flown with Sarah and without us. But then I saw him behind the security gate talking to a guard. Sarah sat beside mother and tossed her pink woolen hat up and down. I was sitting on the seats of Mehrabad Airport of 1983, keeping my hands close to my body—presumably frowning. My feet did not reach the ground but I did not shake them. The police still wore their old dark blue Shahrbani uniforms and the traces of the plucked-out Lion-and-Sun emblem were still visible underneath the substituted Allah sign. My four-year-old mind wondered what the reason could be. Maybe their mothers had patched their caps with the sign the way my mother used to patch holes in the knees of my pants.
Sarah tossed her hat up, revolved on her heel and grabbed the hat. Mother flashed a kindly glance at her gyration and smiled but the corners of her lips did not move. Mother was bitter in spite of her name that was supposed to bring sweetness to her life. Mother made a banquet on the occasion of her engagement with Father and there she changed her name from Batoul to Shirin (meaning sweet) but this sweetness never turned up in her life and remained confined in the name: ‘Zia and Shirin’ was written on invitation cards to their wedding, like the legendary lovers before them: Farhad and Shirin; Khosrow and Shirin.
Now, Zia and Shirin were the latest embodiment of legendary love. But, in my opinion, if legendary love is marked by unfulfillment, only the couple Farhad and Shirin could be said to have truly attained legendary love. After all, Khosrow did in the end satisfy his love toward Shirin; and, despite not being fully satisfied with each other, my mother and father still managed to live together for more than thirty years.
Two trucks carried the luggage to the airplane. We were still sitting in the departure lounge. Their suspicion aroused, one of the guards approached my father – anyone who changes his mind at the last moment and climbs down the stairs must be up to no good. My father removed his glasses and put them away in his overcoat’s pocket. He then took out his passport and handed it to the guard. The guard compared the picture in there with the face in front of him, and then the picture of the four of us in winter clothes with the real us.
Sarah tossed her hat up again but, before she could catch it, Father snatched it mid-air and jammed it into his own pocket. Then he hugged Sarah tightly and came over to me, wondering if he should extend the same embrace to me. He looked hard into my eyes and, ignoring my mother, said, “We’re going to Denmark.”
He said it as if he were divulging a secret. Up to then, no one had ever asked my opinion of anything. I waited for my father to finish his sentence but he stood up, seated Sarah on a chair beside my mother and came to hug me up. I was heavy then and hugging me up was difficult. When I tell people that I weighed four kilos and a half when I was born they expect a two-meter tall and 110-kilo heavy person who is not me. I gave up the weight along with my childhood. Perhaps that flab would have come in handy for life in Denmark’s climate, for growing up with the Vikings but when we changed our minds, it was useless then and therefore I became what I am now: a person with a height of 1.72 meters and a weight of 65 kilograms. My father grabbed his baby Viking and went over to my mother.
“They’ll arrest us if we don’t catch the next plane out.”
“Why should they?”
“They won’t tell. The police never say why they arrest people.”
Mother did not panic. After years of marital life and giving birth to Sarah and me, she knew when my father bluffed.
“Let them come then. I’ll tell them it’s all my fault. I don’t wanna leave.”
My father became serious and stared at my eyes again: “Are you coming, Mohammad?”
It was the first time someone asked my opinion on anything and it was not easy for a four-year-old in that situation. What was my father thinking when he asked that question of me? And what weight would my reply–whatever it was–carry at that age? As I thought, perhaps I started to frown. I was born from a lentil sack, Sarah was born from a sugar sack, Mother from a potato sack and Father from a pumpkin sack. That was how we had imagined our births. Potato and lentil go well with each other, and people add sugar to pumpkins for sweeter taste. I was on Mother’s side and Sarah Father’s. Yet, in the photo, despite this domestic collusion, Sarah is sitting beside Mother and I am sitting next to Father. Unthinkably perhaps, I am trying to look serious in my four years of age. Suffering from dysphasia, I cannot pronounce ‘z’ or ‘s’ sounds correctly. I cover this defect by avoiding words with ‘z’ or ‘s’ letters and with hyperactivity. In kindergarten, I give the boy a thrashing who hit Sarah on the hand. I go to taekwondo classes and imitate my opponent’s yellow belt techniques. Noticing this, my master says, “I saw you cheating, but it’s good that you can copy the techniques so fast!”
Aunt Soheila migrated to Tehran upon marriage; I am not Aunt Soosan’s favorite anymore after Sarah’s birth. I remember Aunt Soosan and her friend Aunt Azam in red skirts as they played the ‘Co-traveler’ song in a Sony tape recorder/player set and tried to imitate the singer Googoosh. Aunt Azam played the role of Behrooz and rode the motorcycle on swirling roads of Chalous by moving herself to and fro while Aunt Soosan sat behind her and grasped her hands round Aunt Azam’s belly with her curly coily hair flying in the wind.
I am frowning in the photo because I know that my hair is straight and black and I have heard in Aunt Soosan and Aunt Azam’s conversations that all the Danes are citrine-headed. So why doesn’t she dye her hair, I asked my aunt. Aunt Soosan laughed and answered that only women can dye their hair.
“But you are a woman, too!”
Aunt giggled again and said: “I am still a girl.”
“The Danes are women?”
“They have men too, but their men aren’t good.”
“So how do they make their hair citrine if they are men?”
I could pretend. As a four-year-old kid I could imitate the manners of someone born in Copenhagen. I would dye my hair, but how could I mess with God’s plans? That was why I frowned. I was afraid there might be too many ‘z’ and ‘s’ sounds in the Danish language.
“What’s ‘citrine’ in Danish?” I asked my father.
Father was tired that night and did not bother to look it up in his dictionary: “Citrine.”
“And what is ‘destitute’ in Danish?”
“They’ve got no destitute.”
Everything related to the Danes was difficult. The men’s way of dying their hair, their words full of ‘z’ and ‘s’ sounds. I frowned knowing that the photo was to carry us to a difficult place. Why should I have suffered for four years to become what I was, I asked myself, if I had to go somewhere different and more difficult?
“I’ll come–only if mother comes,” I replied.
My father did not take his glance away from my face. He picked up his glasses and let some time pass. “One day your mother dies and then you will have to decide for yourself,” he said.
I was happy with my mother. Sarah used to take cushions and veils and dolls under the tennis table and play the housewives’ game. At times when he was at home, Father joined her under the ping pong table. They played under and we played over the table. Their games were often more prolonged than ours. Sometimes I wanted to join them and stretch my legs in their toy house; Sarah would then act in the role of the hostess and serve me tea and fruit in tiny plastic dishes. But I didn’t; I stayed with Mother in the kitchen and she put lemon-flavored effervescent tablets in a glass of water and poured sugar powder on her Nan Panjari cookies. We did not weep, but Sarah and Father laughed out loud. We were not happy and they pretended to be very happy to make us envy their happiness.
I’d always defeated the champion from the Iranian School for Girls. Why did I have to think about the death of my defeated mother? I might have thought about her death if she had ever won—if she looped her balls or crouched over the table in backhands like when she played with her sister-in-law and no one could see how she hit the ball with that nasty backhand. Yes, I might have thought of her death then, but she never made a loop spin for me—never. So I decided to side with Mother.
“I’ll stay with Mother. You can go with Sarah if you want,” I replied.
Lentil and potato could be boiled together but you can never add sugar to them. Pumpkin and sugar go well together but one should never add potato or lentils to them. My father hugged Sarah and went over to the gate. On his way to the gate, he looked back over his shoulder at Mother and me, with his heavy, sad eyes. Mother’s fingers locked up in mine and then she said: “I won’t be sad if you go.”
I pressed my mother’s fingers the way I always did in Bazaar; she locked her fingers in mine and pressed them every now and then asking me to pay attention to her, and I replied by pressing her fingers back, meaning I am. And it was the decision born of this split-second that made me the 1.72 meter tall person I am today.
Mother’s plan was hale and sound. Migration to Denmark—that plan now joined the end of a long row of Father’s pooped out plans. Following this, the veranda’s door opened. The big bathroom’s door opened. The third room’s door opened, and the door to the ridge roof opened. The bifolding doors opened as my mother could not sweep under the American sofa and so she threw it out. The door to the great guest hall opened and Father pulled the ping pong table back to the attic where water dropped from the tin roof on the wooden board, causing it to swell up badly. I could not play ping pong with my mother anymore and the School Girls Champion lost no more to me. Only one door remained closed. Father had opened a door when he looked back at us; he looked through the half-opened door and, seeing my mother and me sitting there, closed the door.
Translated from the Persian by Farzaneh Doosti
*****
Room after room, turn after turn, Wolfgang Tillmans’ Tate Modern exhibition teems with images large and small. Images alone and arrays of larger and smaller photographs, framed and unframed and attached to the wall with bulldog clips, hung high over doorways and shuffled on a table.
A young man’s neck, a knee, a hand stuffed down a pair of shorts. A glimpse of flesh as someone turns. A boy looking at his phone at a London roundabout, a young man in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, all in fuchsia next to his shiny purple car, mobile phone in his hand. A pair of balls and anus, close-up, huge on the wall. A city seen from the sky from an aeroplane window; another city, veiled in pollution. You can get very close or not nearly close enough. Or even too close.
These shifts in distance and proximity, scale and presentation let Tillmans’ photographs, in all their variety, breathe. Such stratagems are familiar from earlier exhibitions of the German artist’s work, but are more than just a way of amassing his material. They take account of our mobility and insatiable hunger for the next thing, in order to slow us down and pay attention.
There is music. There is dancing. Bewilderment is part of the pleasure, as we move between images and photographic abstractions. Tillmans’ asks us to make connections of all kinds – formal, thematic, spatial, political. He asks what the limits of photography are. There are questions here about time, place, belonging, voyeurism, affection, sex. After a while it all starts to tumble through me.
Here is a laser print of a faded fax, itself a print of a photograph of a young man crouching, in a position like praying. Through all its technical reproduction, the image assumes a new quality, both degraded and as delicate as a pen and wash drawing, the faded memory of something seen or encountered, bought back to mind.
Then we are swept away on a drive down Sunset Boulevard, rear lights flaring in the night, then trudging down the grey-carpeted slope of an airport corridor, heading towards Immigration, beyond the sign that reads “Rest of World”. OK. Where next? To the studio, with its messy desk, a still life of monitors, laptops and cables, beer bottles, cigarette packs and ashtrays. Some images give you only blankness, pure colour pocked and marked by a dirty printer, a corrupted purity.
When Tillmans won the Turner prize in 2000, he used some of his winnings to buy an expensive colour printer. In 2011, he dismantled the by now defunct machine, screw by screw. A thing of silvery panels and grey shadows, the parts clutter his studio floor, surrounding the printer’s disembowelled carcass. What that thing has seen, how much use and abuse it has suffered. Then he took its photograph, as if he were looking for some secret there, some image lost inside. A little later we come to a gutted lobster shell, a fly working at a scrap of uneaten flesh in the upturned carapace on the table.
Tillmans’ work is all a kind of evidence – a sifting through material to find meaning. Now the camera is staring into a big cardboard box, half-filled with pharmacist’s tubs and packages, 17 years’ supply of antiretroviral and other medications to treat HIV/Aids. I imagine the sound that box would make if you shook it, what that sound might say about a human life, its vulnerability and value.
A whole world is here. A filthy drainpipe in Buenos Aires, a Delhi morning, Shanghai nights, Port-au-Prince and Lima seen from the air. Anders, half naked, bent over and pulling a splinter from his foot, a timeless moment of attentive self-care. Everything collides in this warren of 14 spaces. Tillmans’ 2017 is not a retrospective so much as a realignment of images and preoccupations. Reconfiguring his work, introducing pauses and interruptions, is a way of telling the story new each time.
Making a show is as much a part of Tillmans’ work as taking pictures, making a video or an installation. Or, one might add, creating exhibition spaces in London then Berlin, championing other artists, and making the best case for remaining in Europe, as Tillmans did in a series of posters he created, and which could be downloaded and distributed for free, last year.
An arrangement of home-made tables fills one room. Begun in 2005 his truth study center is an ongoing project that collates all kinds of visual and written material as a kind of tabletop scrapbook of archived articles and images. It functions as a litmus test of the present moment. There are studies in brain research, and how hard it is to change people’s political opinions; global warming evidence and why it riled doubters; the cognitive process, and why it is that that people don’t care that Donald Trump lies. Here’s a pamphlet on anal play for men and women. There is too much to take in, in these background rumbles of the personal, the public and the private.
Later, music leaks into the gallery, and we are led into a blue room with acoustic baffles mounted on the walls and ceiling. A serious sound system blasts the music of 1980s British band Colourbox into the space. This is a kind of release. Colourbox was a studio band that never performed live, and the speakers reproduce their music as close to the quality of the original master recording as possible. Tillmans’ Playback Room was first set up in Three Bridges, the studio/gallery space he set up in Bethnal Green, then again when he moved to Berlin. The room is cluttered with rows of old GDR school chairs. Ignoring them, I danced alone by the window, looking out at the grey river light on a winter day.
In another room, wearing only his underpants, Tillmans dances too, to the beat of his bare feet as he moves left and right before a mark on a wall, in the video Instrument. Maybe the black mark is a glory hole. On an adjacent screen we see his shadow cast on a different wall, making the same moves, slipping in and out of synch with his other self. Dancing for himself, dissolving in the rhythm, he is both instrument and player, catching up with himself, lagging behind. This second room, we learn, is in Tehran. What a strange and compelling work this is.
Among a number of portraits – including artist Richard Hamilton, singer Frank Ocean and ex-British Museum director Neil McGregor – we find Tillmans’ own reflection, fractured in a scarred, dented and distorting metal mirror in Reading jail (taken for his participation in the Artangel project there last year).
And here is artist Gustav Metzger, who first arrived in Britain as a refugee on the Kindertransport, almost a lifetime ago. The colourful wreckage of boats beached on Lampedusa marks a more recent transit of fleeing refugees. In a further image the spotlight of an Italian coastguard helicopter is cast on a dark sea in a rescue mission off the coast.
Someone stands beneath the Gaza wall, as if they were waiting for something. White paint is hurled over the screen of a Spanish ATM in a gesture of rage and obliteration. We are coming to the end. The last room in the show is dominated by an empty ocean, heaving with contrary currents and undertows. The image is called The State We’re In. In a corner hang four modest pictures of a small apple tree, growing outside Tillmans’ old London studio, the fruit ripening. Around, the world roars on.
Ukrainian publishers have reacted angrily to their government’s ban on importing books from Russia, claiming it will create a black market and damage the domestic industry.
The ban, passed by Ukraine’s parliament, is the latest front in the battle between Kiev and Moscow that has been running since Russia annexed Crimea and pro-Russian forces seized power in parts of eastern Ukraine in 2014. Books from Russia account for up to 60% of all titles sold in Ukraine and are estimated to make up 100,000 sales a year.
Although the ban has been under discussion since September, its sudden implementation caught booksellers and publishers by surprise. Speaking to Eugene Gerden of the Publishing Perspectives website, Alexander Afonin of the Ukrainian Association of Publishers and Booksellers warned the move would lead to a shortage of books and force Russian titles underground. He predicted that the ban would last until 1 April at least.
Afonin added that Ukrainian book importers had begun to terminate or suspend agreements with Russian distributors. He said that no compensation had been offered by the government for the loss of business and there was little hope of the slack being taken up by homegrown titles. At leading publisher Summit Books, Ivan Stepurin said: “Currently, local publishers don’t have sufficient resources to replace banned books from Russia.”
Stepurin blamed the high cost of translation – $3,000 to $5,000 (£2,500 to £4,000) per title. “This is too expensive for Ukrainian publishers, taking into account that most books will sell no more than 2,000 copies,” he told the website. “With translation and rights costs so high, the ban will result in a shortage of books in various sectors of the market – especially in educational literature and world classics, where the local publishers’ impact has always been slight.”
Ivan Bogdan, CEO of the country’s biggest online bookseller Yakaboo.ua, said the trade had called for restrictions to imports rather than an outright ban, and had warned prohibition would hit the country’s beleaguered economy. “Today, we have a total ban, rather than well-designed restrictions. That means that the state budget is suffering losses, because of the lack of tax receipts from book importers,” he said.
Inna Yehorova, first secretary at the Ukrainian embassy in the UK, confirmed to the Guardian that the ban was active and that it was intended as “a mechanism restricting access to the Ukrainian market of foreign anti-Ukrainian printed matter content.” She said that the law did not apply to materials and books imported in individuals’ luggage, if the total amount was not more than 10 copies.
The ban follows an order in December 2016 that restricted access to “anti-Ukrainian content” from Russia. It continues a culture war that has been running between the two nations since 2014, alongside military hostilities in eastern Ukraine. On Friday, it emerged that lawyers for Natalya Sharina, director of the Ukrainian Literature Library in Moscow, had taken her case to the European court of human rights. Sharina, who was arrested in 2015 after books banned by Russia were allegedly found in the library, has been under house arrest for two years. But while her trial began in November, the Russian authorities seem no nearer to proving their case against her for embezzlement and incitement through books banned as “extremist” than they were three months ago. Sharina denies all charges.
Name: Prue Leith.
Age: 76.
Next location: A big tent.
Is Prue Leith going to host The Grand Tour? Wrong tent, I’m afraid. It has been reported that Prue Leith CBE – restaurateur, journalist, novelist and cookery school founder – may have been recruited as Mary Berry’s replacement for the new series of The Great British Bake Off on Channel 4.
She’s going to be rubbish. Now, now, you’re just saying that because you’re still upset that Berry left the show when the BBC lost the rights last year.
Quite right, too. Bezza’s a legend. Indeed. But Leith is a legend, too. This is her 57th year in the food business, during which time she has opened a Michelin-starred restaurant, written seven novels, founded a world-renowned cookery school and been made chancellor of Queen Margaret University in Edinburgh. She couldn’t be more qualified.
Hang on, are you just being nice about her because she had a column in the Guardian once? No, I’m being nice about her because she seems like a good fit. She was solid as a judge on The Great British Menu, wasn’t she?
Not really. She was often mean for the sake of being mean. Well, that’s true. In her worst moments on that series, she tended to be overcome by a sort of arbitrary sniffiness about perfectly good professionally made food.
That won’t fit with the Bake Off’s trademarked chumminess, will it? Possibly not. But give her a chance. Berry was quite rubbish in the first series of Bake Off, remember, until she figured out how to avoid being steamrollered by Paul Hollywood.
Ah, yes, Paul Hollywood. Will they get on? That’s harder to say. I’m sure they’ll be fine, once Hollywood has had a chance to bed in a new nickname for her.
Pruzza? Leithy? Pru Pru? He’ll think of something. Anyway, stop worrying. Prue’s great and Bake Off is great and this whole thing will go off without a hitch.
You’ll be watching when it airs on Channel 4, then? God, no. I’m no scab.
Do say: “On your marks, get set, bake.”
Don’t say: “Is it too late to replace Paul Hollywood with someone else as well?”
Is The Crucible the ultimate post-truth play? Although it was written in 1953, Arthur Miller’s drama holds particular significance in the current political environment, as we’ve found during rehearsals for our new production.
Consider the opening scene of Act 2, a delicate depiction of a husband and wife, John and Elizabeth Proctor, overcoming adultery. The scene ends with the townspeople crashing in with news that warrants have been signed for the arrest and examination of 16 innocent individuals, including Elizabeth. In rehearsals, I ask our cast to think of Donald Trump’s travel ban and a rumoured executive order repealing LGBT anti-discrimination laws. The scene works. It generates the fear and fervour that Miller has written.
Miller wrote The Crucible when America was prosecuting alleged communists. Originating with a presidential executive order, the “red scare” became an obsession, ripping through all aspects of American life from the state department to Hollywood. It was a campaign of fear that turned people against each other, destroying lives, careers and friendships in its wake. Miller wrote that it “paralysed a whole generation and in a short time dried up the habits of trust and toleration”. Miller felt compelled to respond. Worried about being identified as a “red” himself, he turned to the Salem witch trials of 1692 as an allegory.
In Act 3 of the play – the big trial scene – the judge says: “A person is either with this court or he must be counted against it, there be no road between.” It bears a stark resemblance to US press secretary Sean Spicer’s less eloquent words regarding dissenting government officials: “They should either get with the programme or they can leave.” The “programme” in The Crucible is the prosecution of more than 150 men and women accused of witchcraft. Miller talks about the paradox of a community that has created a society grounded in the idea of “exclusion and prohibition”. Its sole function is to keep the community “together, and to prevent any kind of disunity that might open it to destruction”. The Daily Mail’s recent branding of the judges presiding over the Brexit supreme court ruling as “enemies of the people” if they voted for it or “champions of the people” if they voted against, has the same whiff of exclusion and prohibition. UK citizens are now more likely to identify with leave or remain than they are with a political party.
Miller’s 17th-century Salem is a place rife with anxiety; it is a community in the midst of great change and flux, where social structures are weakening. Some parts of the community feel as if they are losing control – the world isn’t the same as it was. Licensed by a series of convenient lies, post-truths and “alternative facts”, long-held hatreds of neighbours are openly expressed and vengeance taken. Hysteria takes hold. The most vulnerable are targeted.
Eighteen months ago, David Hutchinson, director of the touring company Selladoor Productions, approached me with the proposal of making The Crucible together. I’d wanted to programme more work that would appeal to schools, and of course the play is one of the greatest stories ever told – it is precise, human, domestic, deeply moving, political and, more importantly, an emotional rollercoaster for audiences. It has also recently been removed from school curriculums. Neither of us could foresee how pertinent the project would become.
Miller said: “I can almost tell what the political situation in a country is when the play is suddenly a hit there – it is either a warning of tyranny on the way or a reminder of tyranny just past.” It would be presumptuous to say that our production will be a hit, but until we have a new great play that will expose the machinations of our times, Miller’s allegory will do, and it will do it brilliantly. Salem in the 17th century was a place where fear was used as a political tool, where outside threats were invented to explain current woes, where scapegoats were identified, hunted down and judged, and where truth holds no currency. Sound familiar?
It’s a cliche to claim that a novel can change your life, but a recent study suggests almost a fifth of readers report that fiction seeps into their daily existence.
Researchers at Durham University conducted a survey of more than 1,500 readers, with about 400 providing detailed descriptions of their experiences with book. Nineteen per cent of those respondents said the voices of fictional characters stayed with them even when they weren’t reading, influencing the style and tone of their thoughts – or even speaking to them directly. For some participants it was as if a character “had started to narrate my world”, while others heard characters talking, or imagined them reacting to things going on in everyday life.
The study, which was carried out in collaboration with the Guardian at the 2014 Edinburgh international book festival, also found that more than half of the 1,500 respondents said that they heard the voices of characters while reading most or all of the time, while 48% reported a similar frequency of visual or other sensory experiences during reading.
According to one of the paper’s authors, the writer and psychologist Charles Fernyhough, the survey illustrates how readers of fiction are doing more than just processing words for meaning – they are actively recreating the worlds and characters being described.
“For many of us, this can involve experiencing the characters in a novel as people we can interact with,” Fernyhough said. “One in seven of our respondents, for example, said they heard the voices of fictional characters as clearly as if there was someone in the room with them.”
When they asked readers to describe what was happening in detail, the researchers found people who described fictional characters remaining active in their minds after they had put the book down, and influencing their thoughts as they went about their daily business – a phenomenon Fernyhough called “experiential crossing”.
The term covers a wide range of experiences, from hearing a character’s voice to feeling one’s own thoughts shaped by a character’s ideas, sensibility or presence, he continued. “One respondent, for example, described ‘feeling enveloped’ by [Virginia Woolf’s] character Clarissa Dalloway – hearing her voice and imagining her response to particular situations, such as walking into a Starbucks. Sometimes the experience seemed to be triggered by entering a real-world setting similar to one in the novel; in other situations, it felt like seeing the world through a particular character’s eyes, and judging events as the character would.”
The characters who make the leap into readers’ lives are typically “powerful, vivid characters and narrators”, Fernyhough added, “but this will presumably vary hugely from person to person”.
It’s an experience that the writer recognises from his own reading of Virginia Woolf and contemporary authors such as Richard Powers and Ali Smith. “Some of my most powerful reading experiences come when I feel that the author has tinkered with the software of my own brain,” he said. “I know I’m in the presence of a great author if she or he makes me notice things I wouldn’t otherwise have noticed, because the voice and sensibility on the page is sharpening my attention and bringing details into the light, and because I’m starting to think like them.”
The results struck a chord with the novelist Edward Docx, who recalled reading JD Salinger’s The Catcher in the Rye as a teenager.
“I fell very heavily under the influence of Holden Caulfield,” Docx said. “I think a lot of people do. The way that Salinger writes, which is so intelligent and literate and insightful and – for want of a better word – cool, was very influential.” A dissenting, sardonic voice from the US was very attractive for someone growing up in the UK, he continued. “It was definitely in my head. It gave me a way of thinking and of being that wasn’t available in my immediate circumstances.”
According to Docx, fiction’s ability to let readers participate in lives other than their own is the thing that sets it apart from other art forms.
“It gives you the interiority of characters’ minds,” he explained. “The greatest film can’t do that, and neither can a computer game. Only the novel can give you an intimate portrait of the complex cross-currents of human psychology, to the extent where you know another person’s soul. And that’s the most intimate thing in the world.”
Writers of fiction are continually hearing voices, he added: “That’s what the job is. You’re actively encouraging them and keeping your mind open to different voices – the more of them the better … and you know you’ve written something better than usual when you get different people from different geographies coming up to you and saying they really felt something for this character or that one.”
For Fernyhough, who has published two novels as well as a range of nonfiction, creating a character who can touch readers is a real accomplishment.
“I have had readers say that they were sad that a book ended because they didn’t want the characters to go away, because they missed them,” he said. “It’s satisfying to know that you’ve created a character who has some life outside yourself.”
Writing a novel whose characters can escape into the real world does feel “a bit like writing software,” Fernyhough continued. “Or laying a minefield for the heart. You want to shape how your readers think and feel – not in prescriptive ways that leave them no room to bring their own experiences and interpretations, but to allow them enter the minds of people they are not, and to have something of their experiences.”
Docx compared the characters whose voices get into readers’ heads to secret friends. “You wish you were great pals with Holden Caulfield, that you could sit around and trade wisecracks with him,” he said. “Obviously it’s a form of madness, but then all fiction is a form of madness.”
When I was 14 years old, I used to work alternate Saturdays with my best mate Spencer in the Glasgow record store Rubadub. I was a massive fan of Daft Punk at the time, and on one of my first days there, a promo of the hugely anticipated Digital Love single came into the shop. When I asked if I could have it, Barrie, my mentor at the time, picked up the record and snapped it over his knee (so casually as to make it obvious he had done it many times before) and proceeded to launch it into the bin before handing me a record by a Detroit outfit known as Optic Nerve, ordering me to “Get yourself upstairs and listen to this”.
That’s how seriously they took their music in Rubadub and how little time they had for bullshit. One name I kept on noticing in the techno end of the shop was Drexciya. This was at a time when I would spend up to six hours a night on Napster and I eventually ran a search for them and the first file that came up was an MP3 that turned out to be The Journey Home from their 1995 EP on Warp. It blew my mind. Creatively it was like nothing I had ever heard because at that point I was into mainstream house and trance. It was the equivalent of an Abba fan hearing Larry Levan for the first time. I’d never really heard much dance music made on analogue machines before, at least not music that had so much feeling.
There was a real mystique to Drexciya because they were completely anonymous – they were never photographed, rarely gave interviews and if there was any extra text on their artwork it usually just said “Thanks to GOD”. Instead of revealing anything personal about themselves, they came up with an Afrofuturist mythology which cast the Drexciyans as a race of sea-dwelling humans descended from Africans thrown off slave ships in the mid-Atlantic. As a result, most of their tracks carried evocative, aquatic/sci-fi-inspired titles like Hydro Theory, Darthouven Fish Men, Deep Sea Dweller, Funk Release Valve and Water Walker.
The heavy subject matter and scientific leanings didn’t mean their music had to be was cold or impersonal; in fact it’s quite the opposite. Unlike most of today’s techno, which aims for a singular mood – white noise, crescendos and big drops – Drexciya made their own rules. Their tunes will often change every few bars, showcasing a particular mastery of melancholic melody and an ability to sway from playful to heartbreaking in the space of a minute. Elements don’t drop in and out neatly every four, eight or 16 bars as seems to be the status quo template with dance music, they’re it’s much more idiosyncratic and inventive. I often draw parallels in my head between Drexciya and Prince; both could achieve astounding emotional range in their songs and both operated completely in their own bubble. Drexciya’s James Stinson was a long-distance truck driver and he said in what I think is his only interview that in his truck he only listened to jazz, because he didn’t want any contemporary music to influence or interfere with his own vision.
Like many of their Detroit peers, both members of Drexciya maintained equally prolific side-projects including Dopplereffekt, Japanese Telecom and of course my favourite, Arpanet. One of my favourite Drexciya-related albums is 2001’s Lifestyles Of The Laptop Cafe, made by Stinson in the guise of The Other People Place. It was thrust into my hands when I was in Rubadub with the words “this is one of the best records you’ll ever hear” shortly after I had been sacked by the guys for turning up late too many times. I put the needle down on Let Me Be Me and I was sold. I don’t think I even listened to the rest of the album before buying it.
At first I didn’t make the connection with Drexciya because conceptually it’s so different – it’s really personal and heartfeltwhereas the Drexciya and Dopplereffekt music I had been collecting was colder and stark. The album tells the story of a relationship gone sour prematurely, ending in heartache. Something we can all relate to. The music of The Other People Place is fairly simplistic in its make-up – one or two drum machines (the classic Roland TR-808 prominently features), pads, bass and trippy, otherworldly vocals or effects – but what they do it does with those few elements is far greater than the sum of its parts and at times simply devastating in a club environment.
In the early 2000s, there were rumours of a Drexciya live tour, including a date in Glasgow. But then sadly James Stinson died of heart complications shortly before this tour began and that was the end of the Drexciya project. That was the first time that the death of a musician had a profound affect on me. My friends even did a Stinson tribute party in Glasgow that night in an illegal warehouse space. When I hear The Other People Place album I feel sad for many reasons. Not only because its message resonates with me but because I know how much more he had to give. There will never be another Drexciya.
Drexciya – Funk Release Valve
This is from their 1999 album Neptune’s Lair, which is probably their most well-rounded album and also the one that goes deepest into the Drexciyan mythology. This track starts really upbeat and playful, but then it ushers in these more introspective themes. It’s a real trip moving from pop sensibilities into hard techno tracks that wouldn’t sound out of place at Berghain or of course Tresor, the club whose in-house label released the album.
The Other People Place – Let Me Be Me
Lifestyles Of The Laptop Cafe was such an important album for me. It didn’t sound like anything else I’d heard in dance music before – it’s so rich and warm and seductive, sexy, almost sleazy.
Arpanet – Infinite Density
This is one of Gerald Donald’s guises. There’s a lofty concept behind it about the promise and also the dangers of a fully connected world. This track is so cold and scientific, as if made in a laboratory rather than a studio, but the melody is just so incredible.
Dopplereffekt – Superior Race/Master Organism
The first time I heard this, it was being sampled by ghetto house producer DJ Deeon, on a track called Shake Dat Ass. But when you hear the original the context and energy is very different.
Elecktroids - Algorithm
Elecktroids is is a mid-90s side project, again on Warp, apparently featuring both Drexciya members. It’s a tribute to Kraftwerk, so the songs are full of these haunting, austere, melodies. It’s such a cliche to say it, but this tune will take you on a real journey. It really gets inside you and dictates your mood.
Interview by Sam Richards
For me it was Spiritualized’s Ladies and Gentleman We Are Floating In Space. On repeat. Until it became part of me. She’s got two kids now, and lives on the other side of the world.
Inspired by stories from the likes of James Blunt, Mø, and assorted members of Squeeze and Madness, our readers share their own tales of early love and the songs that will remain forever synonymous with them.
1977 I was aged 15, on holiday in Anstruther during an improbably warm July. There was a small fairground on the harbour and the music system on the waltzers played 'You Win Again' by Hot Chocolate incessantly. I managed to put my arm around a girl from Ayrshire we'd been hanging around with, she left a couple of days later not before giving me my first kiss. We wrote letters for a while, daily at first, then weekly then just weakly. I never saw her again.But that song comes on and I'm back on a beach with sharing a bag of chips with her.
My teenage years got off to a poor start. One summers evening whilst jogging back home from the parks, I stepped into the road to avoid a pack of girls. I then tripped over the kerb ahead of them. To howls of laughter, head down I hurried the last few yards to my front door. Even worse, mum thought some of those girls looking towards our house, pointing and saying "he lives there" were girls with a crush on me. Soon, I developed a crush of my own on one of them, (along with a young female teacher at our school who taught European Studies). It was 1981, and I'd visit the parks knowing her and a friend would later come down. Sitting on my Raleigh bike totally not like Brando on his Triumph, she would appear and seemingly look across towards me. Unfortunately some older lads would also appear and confidentially crowd them out. My soundtrack to this wonderful but frustrating summer was 'I don't need this pressure on' by Spandau Ballet. A record I'd play to death, imaging myself as a new romantic success with the ladies, trawling the subterranean clubs my imagination thought existed withing our crumbling port city.
I went to an all boys school and knew very little about girls or how they functioned mentally and emotionally. My teenage crush was at the sixth form summer dance which was arranged with a girl's school nearby. I was besotted by a lass and we danced wildly to Bachmann Turner Overdrive's "You ain't seen nothing yet". I was over the moon. But then she danced with another, bigger, much more mature lad and snogged him, and I felt I was basically dumped there and then. Even though we had nothing going on, just this one dance, it broke my poor, fragile heart. It took me ages to get any confidence again with females.
Blimey this takes me back. My first real crush was on a girl who was in my year at school and was also a member of the swimming club I attended. I would have been about eleven and the year 1977.
Our school was perhaps unusual in that the PE lessons leading up to the school Christmas party were set aside for 'dancing lessons' (one of the PE teachers was a trad country dancing buff). These consisted of formal line-type dancing with bits where you would actually touch a girl in a traditional 'waltz' stance. One dance in particular incorporated changes of partner with the girl moving along to the next partner in line at predetermined times during the song. I can still feel that moment when my stomach turned as my crush approached down the line, eventually becoming my partner in turn for what seemed a fleeting moment. I sometimes wonder if she noticed how I probably blushed when she arrived. Alas, nothing ever came of it - I was too shy and she was way out of my league (or so I told myself at the time).
And the soundtrack to these events? Well at least the teacher had decent taste in music: Night Fever by the Bee Gees and Show You the Way to Go by The Jacksons.
Alison Marshall. I was nuts about her. I was 17, she was 18. She had blond hair, blue, blue eyes and teeth as white as a pillowcase. She used strawberry flavoured lip gloss and she tasted like heaven. I would visit her house when she was alone and we listened to Bread, 'Baby I'ma want you'. She dumped me after about 2 months. As a neat compliment to teenage angst, I recall the stress of us separating made me break out in hideous acne which lasted for months. Many, many years later, back in my home town, I was in a supermarket queue holding a bottle of wine and some unruly, overweight youths were in front of me casually throwing piles of sweets onto the conveyor and cussing. Past me came a lady who said to the youths, 'Move out of the way...' 'Why Mum?' 'Let this man go first he has only one thing'. Thank you Alison.
Summer 1972, just in the middle of O-Levels, going out with my first "real" girlfriend, until I came flying off my pushbike and went under a car...Fortunately, I suffered nothing more serious than concussion and a face full of cuts and bruises but when I next saw her, she saw the massive scab that was my face at the time and wasted no time dumping me.
Emotionally shattered and furious at her, I scribbled down all the words to "Positively Fourth Street" and mailed them to her....a gesture that makes me cringe now I look back at it over the years...but it gave me some satisfaction at the time and that was increased when I heard that she went round for some time afterwards, telling everyone that yes we were over but I'd sent her this amazingly angry poem that she'd inspired..... I never did find out if anyone had told her that I'd borrowed it from Bob Dylan...
It was that glorious summer of 76. I was 17 and shortly to be leaving home for the first time. My best mate Oz had a sister, she was 19, two years older than me, beautiful, long black hair and the greenest of eyes. She was on her way to university to do a BA in English which meant that as well as being out of my league in the looks department, she was the height of sophistication. She was also going out with a lad who owned a Honda Goldwing and had 'Death' written in studs on the back of his leather jacket...
A few months before, Oz and I had formed a band but we'd split a few days earlier over the announcement that I was 'joining up' as an infantryman, to get away from a bullying drunk of a father.
Of an evening the band lads would get together in Oz's dad's garage to drink cheap cider and large tins of Watney's 'Party Seven'. we'd strum a few chords and then have a fight about who was out of tune and out of time. 'Musical differences' is the phrase - except non of us knew how to play music. That night was my 'leaving do' as the next morning I was on a train to Devon and 32 weeks of the toughest basic infantry training in the World.
We'd set up a turntable and even had disco lights of a sort, a stack of Northern soul 45s and nobody to dance with. Until Jane (Oz's sister) turned up with a couple of her pals. They helped themselves to the cider and started going through the 45s telling us which of them were 'crap' and which were 'ace'. We (the lads) went very quiet as non of us was very good with girls, especially these sophisticates and although I'd known Jane for most of my life I'd always held her in awe and had hardly ever spoken to her and blushed like a traffic light when she spoke to me.
Eventually, music broke the ice, soul music, 'sweet soul music'. Northern soul and the girls took to the dance floor...
"Come on... Get up' ordered Jane and they did as I acted as DJ, under strict orders not to play any of that 'punk rock shit'. Eventually, I ran out of records I was happy to play and the music stopped. Jane came over and went through the pile of 45s... she came to one
"You're going away tomorrow Sid?" she enquired
"Yes" I said
'Come on - let's dance to this' She ordered as she took my hand and dragged me to the dance floor.
It was Jimmy Ruffin 'Broken Hearted'
I held her close to me and her fingers played with the back of my neck as we spiraled around the dancefloor in my mate's dad's garage filled with weedkiller, a lawnmower and stacks of newspapers kept to light fires. A fire was certainly lit in me that night and as the song ended someone put it on again and this time during the dance our lips met and I could feel the warm curves of her hips through her chiffon blouse. At the end of the dance she whispered in my ear..
'Be careful'
She gathered up her friends and they left us lads a seething mass of testosterone bereft of female company.
That dance and kiss kept me warm through basic training and in the places I was sent to. Even now over 40 years later I only have to listen to Jimmy Ruffin and it's as if I was 17 again and the smell of Jane's perfume wafts through the decades.
She came home from university after one term... missing her mum too much and she became a civil servant, married the lad with the Honda Goldwing and has a fine crop of grandkids...
London folkie Flo Morrissey and souly Virginia singer/producer Matthew E White discovered each other in 2015, when White spotted a review of Morrissey’s debut single on the Guardian website and was curious enough to click the link. He followed with an admiring tweet, which led to the pair covering the Lee Hazlewood song Some Velvet Morning at a Hazlewood memorial gig in London. An emboldened White then invited Morrissey to sing on one of his own songs at his studio in Richmond, Virginia. “And she said: ‘Absolutely not,’” White recalls tonight, avuncular and good humoured. Standing to his right, Morrissey protests: “I was quite busy.”
The upshot: she went to Richmond last summer, and 10 days later the pair had made a notable album, Gentlewoman, Ruby Man. Comprised of cover versions, some of them surprising (their laconic remodelling of Grease raises the bar to an impossible height for all future Barry Gibb covers), it provides the context for tonight’s show. Morrissey and White perform all but one track from it, as well as one solo song apiece, and come out the other end with a claim to being a one-night-stand Carpenters.
There’s a siblingish affinity in the waist-length dark hair they both wear, and when they give their low-key all to the songs, soft-rock magic happens. Karen and Richard Carpenter would applaud their technique: the backing band, imported from Richmond, are impeccable, and the vocal harmonies are silken. Despite a setlist that could do duty as the most self-conscious Spotify Discover Weekly playlist – a bit of Frank Ocean, a bit of obscure French miserablism (Nino Ferrer’s Looking for You), and so on – the duo offer only warmth and smiles.
White isn’t short of self-effacing chat, while Morrissey stands by (“I never know what to say in these things”), yet both singers get ample space. Key to their setup is the acknowledgment that one or the other often takes a back seat. The opening Roy Ayers number, Everybody Loves the Sunshine, is one of tonight’s few true duets; what follows, on Charlotte Gainsbourg’s Heaven Can Wait and Ocean’s Thinkin Bout You, is Morrissey taking over as White issues complementary purrs. But then Morrissey stands back as White steers Leonard Cohen’s Suzanne to ghostly waters, and simply can’t compete with his growling Grease, delivered with hands jammed in pockets, can’t-dance-won’t-dance style.
Clearly, they have divergent interests: Morrissey’s true folkie self is evident on her solo song, Pages of Gold, and White has a touch of Barry White as he “conducts” the band. Nonetheless, they blend seamlessly. Yet you get the feeling that this is a one-off – a bit of fun rather than a serious attempt to find new meanings in complex songs. Nothing wrong with that, though. Who couldn’t use some fleeting pleasure in this weather?
Any African American to be admitted to Harvard University in 1888 had to be exceptionally gifted. But that description doesn’t come close to capturing the talent of WEB Du Bois, a man who managed to write 21 books, as well as over 100 essays while being a professor and a relentless civil rights activist.
Du Bois saw no trade-off between those pursuits – his scholarship was protest and his protest was scholarship. He deeply understood something that every activist scrawling a banner in Washington knows today – messaging matters.
Nine years before he became one of the founders of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), Du Bois went to Europe to refute a widely held belief: that blacks were inferior to whites (a belief that a quarter of Americans still hold according to a poll last year).
At the 1900 World Exposition in Paris, Du Bois went armed with beautiful photographs that showed African Americans posing with dignity. But he also knew that the photographs, however elegant, would fail to persuade many. So, he also took data “to show: (a) The history of the American Negro. (b) His present condition. (c) His education. (d) His literature.”
With the help of students at the Atlanta University where he was a professor of economics and history, Du Bois created dozens of illustrations that put many of today’s data visualization experts to shame. The work was the inspiration for Theaster Gates’ latest exhibition in Los Angeles which started this month, and for Black History Month, I wanted to update four of Du Bois’ visualizations with the most recent data available.
As much as possible, I wanted to stay true to Du Bois’ initial design. But while looking through Census records to collect this data, I found a breakdown that I wanted to show, free African Americans (shown in black below) and enslaved African Americans (shown in grey).
When Du Bois created his chart, the US Census Bureau grouped Americans into four racial and ethnic categories – Indian, Chinese or Japanese, black and white. Today, surveys use seven categories and sometimes even more. The updated chart shows (from left to right), blacks, Asian and Pacific Islanders, any other races, Native Americans, Hispanics and whites.
This illustration is beautifully simple, but don’t be misled about the updated version. Yes, the fact that black illiteracy has fallen to 1.6% does seem like progress. But even as late as 1979, illiteracy among black Americans was still four times higher than it was for white Americans. (Newer numbers from the National Center for Education Statistics don’t track “illiteracy” but measures literacy levels.)
If I had stayed close to the original chart, the updated version would have shown that in 2015, African American households in Georgia had a median income of about $36,655, which would fail to capture the story of inflation (net asset numbers aren’t published as cumulative for one race). Instead, I wanted to see how wealth varies by race in America today.
The story is bleak. I hesitated to use the word “worth”, but it’s the language used by the Census Bureau when they’re collecting this data and, since money determines so much of an individual’s life, the word seems relevant. For every dollar a black household in America has in net assets, a white household has 16.5 more.
At first glance, this looks like another story of progress. It’s not. The workforce has changed dramatically since 1900 – just 29,000 Americans today work in fishing and the number of job titles tracked by the Bureau of Labor Statistics has grown to almost 600 – everything from “animal trainers” to “wind turbine service technicians” (and there are even more sub categories).
So, when occupations are grouped into five categories (somewhat arbitrarily), it looks like black and white Americans now work in similar jobs. But even when you control for education level, whites still out-earn black and Hispanic Americans who regularly report being treated unfairly in the workplace.
I thought about DuBois while drawing these. Not just his outstanding craft (how did he manage to get those lines so straight? Those labels so neat?) but how he would feel to look at data 117 years later about the “present condition” of black Americans.
Love, apparently, makes the world go round. But in Max Gill’s contemporary version of Arthur Schnitzler’s scandalous 1897 daisy-chain of a play, it is sex and chance that power the action.
Beginning and ending with a scene featuring a prostitute, La Ronde is a theatrical game of tag, with one character from each sexual encounter always appearing in the next. It creates a web of connection among strangers, like an intriguing sexual version of the six degrees of separation game.
Gill attempts to exaggerate the chance element by introducing a wheel of fortune that dictates which of the four actors – Leemore Marrett Jr, Lauren Samuels, Alex Vlahos and Amanda Wilkin – will get to play in the next scene. Apparently, there are more than 3,000 possible permutations. It’s a gimmick that slows down the action, means some encounters look under-rehearsed, and dissipates tension. The only tension on the night I saw it was whether Marrett Jr would get to perform at all.
There is a terrific scene in which a doctor and a patient make an unexpected connection in the face of death, but this is an underpowered evening that gives little sense of being set right here, right now. It looks and feels oddly old-fashioned, and rather than adding layers as you might expect, the non-gender-specific nature of the adaptation has the effect of taking the sexual politics out of sex and muting the play itself.
• At the Bunker theatre, London, until 11 March. Box office: 020-7234 0486.

Returning to Clint Eastwood’s Absolute Power on the 20th anniversary of its release, on Valentine’s Day 1997, I was hoping that its story of a womanizing president of the United States trying to cover up the murder of his own mistress by Secret Service agents might find some echo in reality now that we have an unabashedly bad guy in the Oval Office for real.
What I found was a politically resonant cultural document of its own times that does, in certain fascinating ways, lead us to the place we are now, even though a mere sex-murder does pale in comparison with the worst we might imagine Donald Trump coming up with.
Clint plays Basic 1990s Clint, as Luther Whitney, seasoned old jewel thief and art forger, a widower with a DA for a daughter (Laura Linney), always making old-codger jokes about himself. On one of his nighttime robberies, he finds himself behind a two-way mirror in a bedroom closet full of jewelry and cash when President Alan Richmond (we learn later) arrives and engages in rough sex games with the much younger wife (Melora Hardin – Jan from The Office) of his elderly mentor and backer (EG Marshall in his last role) on the other side of the glass. Things get violent, she screams and stabs Richmond, and in come the Secret Service and they shoot her in the head. As they prepare to make it look like a botched robbery, Luther now realizes he’s the perfect suspect and flees into the night.
Things get interesting with the arrival of Richmond’s brassy chief of staff, Gloria Russell, played with absolutely no directorial restraint by an almost unhinged Judy Davis. Although she isn’t the first lady (who is mentioned but never seen), she is a note-perfect Gingrich-era misogynistic nightmare of pushy womanhood in the workplace, utterly ruthless, screechy, insulting, addicted to having the last word. It’s perfectly clear that the root of her character is the caricature of Hillary Clinton then solidifying in the aftermath of the recent failure of her healthcare reform initiative. And that caricature was effective enough, iron-cast enough, to still affect public perceptions of Clinton in last year’s presidential race. Davis’s performance is laughable and almost unforgivable, and the only person capable of dialing it back would have been her director, Eastwood. But he chose not to, a cultural faux-pas to match his idiotic “empty chair” speech at the 2012 Republican national convention. As a Californian, and as an energetic sculptor of his own public image, Eastwood always comes off as a relatively liberal Republican, but sooner or later, as in these two instances, he’ll remind you how egregiously, noxiously by-the-numbers rightwing he can be.
Ineptly written as it is (by All the President’s Men’s William Goldman of all people), and as lackadaisically directed, Absolute Power is middling to terrible 90s Clint; indeed, these days it comes as a cheap twofer with its equally disposable follow-up True Crime. But it arises out of its particular time and place with all contemporary pathologies and paranoia intact. Back in the mid-90s, the right, newly ascendant and boasting a surprise majority in Congress, was in the process of achieving complete overreach on the Clintons. Rightwing conspiracy theorists and old Arkansas enemies were dredging up – making up – revolting lies about the Clintons that were gobbled up eagerly on the paranoid right in the last days before the internet arrived. Bill Clinton was a drug-smuggling murderer, they said implausibly, and, a tad more plausibly, a slave to the never-ending demands of his own wayward penis – a rapist at worst, a sex-pest at best.
Hillary – of course – had to be a secret lesbian at the head of some feminazi cabal, on the basis of nothing more than her having said she wasn’t the Tammy Wynnette, Stand by Your Man-type “Little Woman”. As the Starr report would later confirm, these apocalyptic moralists had some very dirty minds indeed, and such was the soil in which Absolute Power was cultivated. Davis joins the ranks of other, marginally subtler cod-Hillarys in movies such as The Manchurian Candidate (Meryl Streep) and Primary Colors (Emma Thompson), but she’s so far out to sea here that she can no longer spy the land.
Elsewhere however, there are some pre-echoes of other, less terrible things to come. Deep in the cast we find Dennis Haysbert as the more extreme and fanatical of the two Secret Service agents (Scott Glenn is the other). When he later played President Palmer on Fox-TV’s 24, Haysbert, with a little help from Morgan Freeman in Deep Impact, defanged most racist expectations of what a black president might be like in office, partly laying the ground for Barack Obama’s landmark victory in 2008. Better yet, homicide detective Ed Harris’s partner is played by Penny Johnson (later Penny Johnson Jerald), who played Haysbert’s scheming First Lady-Macbeth, Sherry Palmer, in the same show. She would also play Condoleeza Rice in the rightwing miniseries The Path to 9/11.
To find a crazier, more dangerous president than the frankly rather hapless Alan Richmond, one has to reach back to Jason Robards’ megalomaniacal variation on a power-mad Richard Nixon (renamed Richard Monckton) in the great but almost forgotten 1977 TV miniseries Washington: Behind Closed Doors, or Martin Sheen’s psychotic candidate Greg Stillson in The Dead Zone (“Hallelulya gentlemen, the missiles are flying!”).
Or, of course, one might simply look at the current occupant of 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, put there by the same forces that did the Clintons in.
There’s a kind of excitable silliness in this disposable, film-within-a-film comedy from Fernando Trueba, starring Penélope Cruz – to whom Trueba gave her big break in his 1992 film Belle Epoque. In fact, it’s maybe the nearest thing that this year’s Berlin film festival has to a Carry On. There are one or two groans and finger-drumming moments of impatience, due to its sentimentality, perverse nostalgia and knowingly retro sexual politics. But it also has a kind of puppyish excitability, one or two laughs, and a lovely song, when Cruz sings Granada on a movie set. In fact, Cruz saves the film. The cinephilia and movie-studio fetishism are picturesque, though Almodóvar has given us the same thing with more intensity and feeling.
The setting is the 1950s, which is introduced by an extended archive-reel montage over the opening credits, patched in with the spoof “real” figures of this film. Cruz plays Macarena Granada, a gorgeously beautiful and much-married Spanish movie star who has had a tremendous Loren-ish career in Hollywood and now returns to Franco’s Spain to star in an American co-production into which the Spanish state has poured funds, due to its ringingly patriotic subject matter: it is the story of Queen Isabella of Castile. But from the start the production has problems: Macarena has the hots for a cute guy on the crew, necessitating farcical trips with him back to her dressing room, and the director, a John Ford-ish guy with an eyepatch, keeps falling asleep. Director JA Bayona has a cameo as a projectionist, and Arturo Ripstein has something similar in his role as big-shot Hollywood producer Sam Spiegelman (a pretty perfunctory renaming of Sam Spiegel). Javier Cámara is an assistant director, Mandy Patinkin is a left-ish US screenwriter and McCarthy exile, who confesses that the original script, about Columbus and America, had to be hastily and incoherently rewritten because it wasn’t sufficiently reactionary for Franco.
Antonio Resines plays Blas Fontineros, a once-renowned film director, now an unperson in Spain due to his leftwing views, having been on the losing side in the civil war, and imprisoned in a concentration camp during the second world war, leading to rumours that he was dead. He is now serving out a day-release jail term, doing manual work on the state-sponsored film set. His friends and admirers hatch a bizarre plan to help him escape across the border to France. This they intend to do by dressing in full costume as 15th-century knights and “kidnapping” him, hoping that everyone will think it’s something to do with the movie: a weird new twist on Argo.
It is entirely preposterous – on the dividing line between entertaining and exasperating, and sometimes the wrong side of that line. The representation of swishy gay men is pretty gamey. But in the final analysis, Cruz carries the film. She has a ridiculous kind of heroism, and her disguises are hilarious, particularly as a knight, when she insists on wearing a false beard under her helmet.
The Carnival of Viareggio has taken place since 1873. It fills a month of day and night festivities with parades of allegorical floats, parties and masked balls.
The carnival is a competition between all the floats and masquerades, and at stake are the honour and livelihoods of many people. In a system rather like sporting leagues, in any two years whoever receives the least points is pushed into the category below, and whoever wins moves up a category.
Old newspapers never die in Viarregio
The main raw material of the carnival is papier-mâché. A local manufacturer, Antonio D’Arliano, was the first to make a sculpture for the carnival using the method in 1925.
There are four categories of float that make up the parade. First class, with nine giant floats, second class with four, the group masquerades of nine floats, and the single masquerades of 15 floats. The differences are in size, complexity and the budget available. It can take over six months to build the huge floats.
Sinibaldi was given behind-the-scenes access and photographed some of the floats being constructed. There are 16 hangars where the allegorical floats are built, overlooking a large elliptical square.
Fabrizio Galli is working on a float that is the allegorical sequel of the one that won last year. Once again, he takes inspiration from Michelangelo, but also from the contemporary painter Karol Bak and from the philosopher Ralph Waldo Emerson, to say that only inner beauty, that of nature and that which can express itself in an artistic form is able to defeat the fear of what is different and alien
The true evil of the world is man, who through his destructive power continues to threaten the ecosystem. The wicked and selfish policies of a few are seriously endangering the lives of all. And, if one day man were forced to flee to another planet? – Planet X description
Many of the people involved in building the floats are family. It is a tradition that is passed down through the generations.
I was amazed by the size and the manual and creative process and skill necessary. I was also quite impressed by the fact that everything gets destroyed after the carnival – Christian Sinibaldi
The Cittadella del Carnevale, which opened in 2001, is an extraordinary architectural complex dedicated to the creation and preservation of the carnival, and is where the floats are prepared on the morning of the parade.
After leaving the Cittadella at about 11am, the floats slowly make their way to the city centre. It takes about two hours to reach the main street of Viareggio, where they are paraded for spectators and judges.
The parade was postponed for a week due to heavy rain and wind, which is a safety issue given the huge size of the floats.
It is a family occasion, with many groups dressing up together, and arriving the day before.
There are nine first-class floats. They can be as high as 27 metres and carry up to 250 people, including dancers and crew. Each float in the first- and second-class categories has maschere (masks) that perform a routine and a show throughout the three hours of the parade.
As they make their way along the route, each float repeats their show for the audience.
In the America that has elected Donald Trump as the next president of the United States, there are those who are fighting in defence of the constitutional law for the right to bear arms. The consequences, however, are clear when one looks at the long list of crimes or of domestic accidents caused by the use of guns and rifles. Just as if we were in a modern Saloon of the wild west, in the artists’ view Donald Trump is the symbol of all this – Bang Bang description
First televised in 1954, today the event is Italy’s largest folk event with an annual budget of €5m (£4m).
Each carnival comprises five different shows, usually taking place each weekend in February, with the final parade on Shrove Tuesday.
The group masquerades are made from six different figures, only one of which can be on wheels. The others must be carried, and each masque can weigh up to 30kg. The group masquerade above is called I Sincronet by Marzia Etna, which is explained as:
While we swim, albeit in a sea of troubles with a smile on our lips, our politicians agree to perform synchronized swimming with pirouettes and acrobatics, sometimes making wise decisions, sometimes not
Each year the carnival attracts more than 600,000 spectators who gather to watch and join the grand parades. Each parade has a different jury which votes on the winning floats.
Dogs in costume are a regular sight during the celebrations.
The first parade in 1873 featured decorated carriages in the historic Via Regia, the heart of the old town. It was transferred to the promenade at the beginning of the 20th century and has grown in size and popularity each year.
It is accompanied by masked and musical all-nighters in the streets. These parties originated in the veglione colorate, or coloured dances, from the 1920s.
The float is an invitation to rediscover oneself, the will to live and desire of freedom through the example of the Boruca population, one of the few indigenous communities of Costa Rica that escaped the Spanish colonisation of the 16th century. Today, the Boruca live in a self-governed protected nature reserve, maintaining and treasuring their identity and pride – Boric Behind the Mask description
Carnival of Viareggio
Saffron Hall opened in 2013, offering a space with first-rate acoustics that seemed tailor-made for opera. Saffron Opera Group was formed the same year, and signalled the extent of its ambitions from its first show, a concert performance of Die Meistersinger, no less. That was followed by Stravinsky’s Rake’s Progress, and then by more Wagner – not just any Wagner, but the start of a concert Ring. Das Rheingold and Die Walküre were performed last year; after this Siegfried, the cycle will be completed in the autumn with Götterdämmerung.
The performances under Michael Thorne combine a largely amateur orchestra with a professional cast of singers. In Siegfried, seasoned Wagnerians – Peter Bronder as Mime, Andrew Greenan as the Wanderer, Nicholas Folwell as Alberich and Elaine McKrill as Brünnhilde – were alongside those nearer the start of their careers: Jonathan Stoughton as the ardent, fresh toned and promisingly tireless Siegfried; Donald Thomson the suitably fathomless Fafner. The BBC Radio 2 young chorister of the year, Agatha Pethers, who comes from Saffron Walden, made an interesting choice as the Woodbird too, wonderfully secure and confident.
Thorne’s conducting was sure-footed and purposeful, and the orchestra had been meticulously prepared; there were a few shaky moments, but the general standard of the playing was high. And as ever when hearing Wagner in the concert hall, there were things to discover and to delight in, as well as those moments when the whole performance seemed to transcend itself, and the lack of any theatrical setting ceased to matter. Here, the most spellbinding of those moments came at the beginning of the third act, with the confrontation between Hilary Summers’ regal Erda and Greenan’s Wanderer – an irresistible moral force meeting an immovable object. It is moments like these that make ventures like Saffron Opera’s so worthwhile.
•Saffron Opera Group completes its Ring cycle with Götterdämmerung at Saffron Hall, Saffron Walden, on 17 September.
When Katy Perry released her new single Chained to the Rhythm last week, she declared that the track wasn’t merely a song – it was a movement. “We gonna call this era Purposeful pop,” she tweeted shortly after the song’s debut on streaming services early Friday.
Perry’s journey from the homophobia-tinged sobriquet U R So Gay to campaigning for Hillary Clinton has been in full view of the pop-consuming public for the past near-decade, and is now in full-on “wake up sheeple!!” mode with the cavernous Chained To The Rhythm. On the opening verse, she takes on selfie culture and the suburbs, echoing protest singers of yore while adding a 21st century spin: “Are we crazy?/ Living our lives through a lens/ Trapped in our white picket fence/ Like ornaments/ So comfortable, we’re living in a bubble, bubble/ So comfortable, we cannot see the trouble, trouble,” she hiccups over a beat that brings to mind co-writer Sia’s 2016 chart-topper Cheap Thrills and the remix of R&B singer-songwriter Mike Posner’s I Took A Pill In Ibiza.
During her performance of Chained at Sunday night’s Grammys, Perry made her message somewhat plain; she spent the first verse of the song seemingly imprisoned by a picket fence, then emerged to reveal an all-white outfit accessorized by an armband. “Persist”, the armband read in all caps, a nod to Elizabeth Warren being silenced on the Senate floor during last week’s contentious debate over Senator Jeff Sessions’ nomination for US attorney general. She sang of “wasted zombie[s]” dancing to a song that had overpowered them, while guest vocalist Skip Marley (grandson of Bob) took on “liars” and declared, “we about to riot”.
Perry’s gesture toward waking up the pop-listening populace is noble in a way; it’s also somewhat expected from her, given her tireless support of Clinton’s campaign last year. But it’s also maddeningly vague – what should listeners wake up to? Why should a person hitch their wagon to Perry’s rhythm in hopes of being roused from their slumber? And whether it can be counted as the initial step in a movement remains to be seen – particularly in a pop landscape that’s controlled by corporate interests such as the radio megaglomerate iHeart and the multinational hardware/software/music company Apple.
The past two weeks have played host to pop’s two highest-profile televised events: the Super Bowl halftime show, which this year boasted Lady Gaga as its headliner, and the Grammys, which showcased a flurry of performers, some of whom got political, most of whom didn’t. Gaga opened her 13-minute greatest-hits medley with a one-two punch of God Bless America and This Land Is Your Land, two patriotic tracks that have been perceived as being in dialogue with one another; she later performed the we-see-all-colors anthem Born This Way, which celebrates listeners of all gender identities and races. Gaga’s politics seemed lightly worn on the surface, although given that vice-president Mike Pence, an anti-LGBT agitator, was in the audience, the assertion that all sexual identities should be respected was a rebuke to power in a way.
Sunday night’s Grammys got periodically political; the largest story to emerge from the ceremony – Adele’s album of the year win for her blockbuster 25 over Beyoncé’s expansive Lemonade, and her subsequent outburst about Beyoncé’s overachievements not resulting in trophies – certainly had its roots in the racial tensions simmering in America for years. Hip-hop veterans A Tribe Called Quest ended their medley with calls to resist and accompanied by a host of people who, according to a rep for the collective, “are supposed to represent all the people that are other”. But while the late George Michael and Prince, both of whom received tributes from current artists on Sunday, would frequently get political with their lyrics – Michael’s Praying For Time is a searing ballad about inequality that still resonates 27 years later, while Prince’s catalog took on racism and nuclear war and a host of other topics – those songs were sidestepped.
In recent years, albums with political messages – from Solange’s steely eyed A Seat At The Table to ANHONI’s desperate Hopelessness to Kendrick Lamar’s incendiary To Pimp A Butterfly – have received critical accolades and online buzz without breaking through to the Hot 100 singles chart. And even politically minded tracks by some of pop’s hugest names – such as Lady Gaga’s Oscar-winning Til It Happens To You, which was on the soundtrack of the documentary on sexual assault The Hunting Ground, and Beyoncé’s pleading Freedom, which was one of the highlights of Lemonade – have run aground when it comes to getting radio airplay.
Whether Chained to the Rhythm, which has a platinum-plated pedigree between Perry and her co-writers Max Martin and Sia, as well as a more vaguely defined political message, will break through to the singles chart is another matter entirely, although it wouldn’t be surprising to find out that a version sans Marley’s verse was being peddled to risk-averse radio stations who may operate under an advertised or unspoken “all the hits, none of the rap” rule.
A more cynical view of how it might land comes from Posner, who initially came into view in the late 2000s with R&B-tinged confessionals that straddled the chasm between soul and emo. His revived hitmaker status was unexpected, given that the track that brought him back to the pop charts was, in its original form, a stripped-down rumination on feeling insecure and washed-up.
Posner explained part of why Ibiza became massive in a piece on the eventual Song of the Year nominee last year: “A typical listener (myself included) does not hear the lyrics of a song on the first listen,” he wrote, repeating wisdom imparted on him by former Perry collaborator Dr Luke. “It’s only if they like the overall feeling of the song enough to warrant a second or third listen that they might start to pick up on lyrics.”
This concept parallels the chorus of Chained – “Turn it up, it’s your favorite song/ Dance, dance, dance to the distortion/ Come on, turn it up, keep it on repeat/ Stumbling around like a wasted zom-bie” – in a way as to make Perry’s agenda sound somewhat cynical, or at least maddeningly vague. Perhaps when Perry releases the second single from her upcoming album, her plan for #wokepop might become clearer.
A northern working-class lad strikes a blow for freedom by flagrantly defying tribal expectations. That was the starting point for Billy Elliot, as it is for this faintly similar new musical, inspired by a 2011 BBC documentary, Jamie: Drag Queen at 16.
The music is by Dan Gillespie Sells, lead vocalist and songwriter for the Feeling, and the book and lyrics are by Tom MacRae, who has written for Doctor Who. Most of the show’s problems stem from the story. Transposing its real-life hero from Durham to Sheffield, it shows Jamie as a boy who periodically enjoys dressing as a girl: his idea of a perfect birthday present is a toweringly tall pair of platform shoes. From this, Jamie conceives the idea of going to the school prom in a dress. Taking expert guidance from a local costumier, Jamie road-tests his female persona at a drag club and overcomes a series of minor obstacles before fulfilling his dream of being accepted for who he is.
At every turn, the audience cheers Jamie on. However, it all seems a bit too easy. It is true that Jamie has to contend with the school bully and a conformist teacher, as well as the disdain of his largely absentee father. But he has a loyally supportive mum, the love of his fellow pupils and a self-belief that only occasionally flags. To make up for the lack of dramatic substance, MacRae has to fill out the story: the scene in which Jamie’s costume supplier reminisces about his own days as a drag queen called Loco Chanel is camply diverting but ultimately irrelevant.
The strength of the show lies in the songs, and Sells reveals an exceptional talent for writing for the female voice. Jamie’s mum has two great self-examining solo numbers, delivered by Josie Walker with a raw, emotional power that makes me wonder why she is not a big star. Jamie’s best friend, a Muslim girl who learns to embrace her femininity, is given two songs vivaciously rendered by Lucie Shorthouse. Even Jamie’s teacher has a lively number about modern art, deftly delivered by Tamsin Carroll. If Sells can match his talent to a more rewarding subject, he has a lot to offer musical theatre.
The show, directed by Jonathan Butterell, who first came up with the idea, stands or falls by Jamie, and John McCrea is excellent. He is tall and willowy, highlighting the absurdity of a psychometric test that marks Jamie down as a fork-lift truck driver. McCrea also endows Jamie with a curious innocence: switching on and off the mini lights that adorn his habitual red dress, he says “I actually think it’s quite subtle”. Thanks to McCrea’s charm and Sells’s songs, we instinctively warm to Jamie. The show is lively and engaging but, like its transvestite hero, demands a fair amount of padding.
•At the Crucible theatre, Sheffield, until 25 February. Box office: 0114-249 6000.
There is a core group of three movies on the Oscars best picture nominee list with a plausible slam-dunk claim on the title. But I am going for La La Land, produced by Marc Platt, Fred Berger and Jordan Horowitz and written and directed by Damien Chazelle. This is the gorgeous romantic musical starring Emma Stone and Ryan Gosling as Mia and Seb, the smart would-be movie star who falls for the grumpy jazz enthusiast. It is a film that – maybe more than any frontrunner of recent years – is in danger of drowning in its own critical attention and press acclaim, creating successive eddies of contrarian backlash from columnists and late-breaking social media dismissal from cinephiles, who compare it unfavourably with the classic work from Hollywood and France that is their own area of expertise.
This lovely film is more than capable of riding it out and getting the best picture Oscar, though it has to be said there is an interesting comparison and contrast with the 2012 best picture winner: The Artist by Michael Hazanavicius, a superb, lovingly observed revival of the black-and-white silent genre. That, too, was a Golden Age of Hollywood nostalgia picture with a similar romantic dynamic between the male and female leads, and a comparable echo of A Star Is Born. We critics raved joyfully about that, too. But there was a bit of a disconnect between the pundits and public: the moviegoers were not quite so keen to watch a silent movie as we hoped: not as keen as they are to watch an all-singing, all-dancing musical in full glorious colour. (The worldwide gross for The Artist is $133.4m; whereas La La Land is already at $268.3m.) So for what it’s worth, raving about La La Land puts the critic in closer touch with the box office.
La La Land is already becoming a classic on its own terms, and the opening sequence on the traffic-jammed freeway has grabbed hearts everywhere: I wasn’t sure at first, but a second viewing had me swooning and gibbering. It turns out not to be a green-screen confection, but the real thing. Chazelle closed the ramp between LA’s 105 and 110 freeways for a weekend, worked his 150-strong cast in the burning heat with unremitting passion and finally showed them the finished product on video playback monitors as dusk fell, to deafening cheers. What a moment that must have been.
Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone are superb in the roles of Seb and Mia (I can’t imagine Andrew Garfield and Emma Watson – the other names once rumoured to be in the running) and their love affair is wonderfully persuasive. Here again I have to counter the naysayers who are avowedly unhappy with the levels of singing and dancing. For me and for everyone else who loves this film, their professional credentials are just fine: but it is the very fact that they are not slick Broadway hoofers and iron-lunged singers that gives them the humanity and believability. It is a part of their vulnerability. The point is that they are on the outside. They haven’t made it. Yet.
The four seasons of their love affair are played out with such tenderness, extravagance and style. References to YouTube and the ubiquity of the Toyota Prius site it in the 21st century; otherwise this love story could be set in almost any of the last five or six decades. Yet this indeterminacy is cleverly managed and always works in its favour. And perhaps the killer punch is the film’s ending, with its alternative-reality reverie: heart-wrenching, romantic, unbearably sad, yet in such a way that a retrospective glow of something like joy and hopefulness is projected on to the events that led up to it. What a great film La La Land is. Surely the best picture winner.
From the moment German comedy Toni Erdmann premiered at Cannes last May, Bill Murray’s name was linked – if only by critics – to a possible US remake. Last month, however, Jack Nicholson was announced as coming out of retirement to take on the role of the larky father to a stern businesswoman, who will be played by Kristen Wiig.
But speaking to CNBC, Murray – who doesn’t have an agent – revealed that he was approached with the role in mind by Wiig, but missed out because of disorganisation.
Murray said: “Kristen Wiig, who I think is so wonderful, sent me something and said, ‘Would you look at this thing?’ And I’m just not very organised. For a while I lost it, and then I found it, but I didn’t get around to watching this thing that she wanted me to watch. And then she said, ‘Well, Jack Nicholson took the job.’”
Murray’s story slightly clashes with the version of events first reported by Variety, who said that Nicholson was always the driving force behind the remake. They paraphrased sources as saying that the actor “was a huge fan of the original and approached Paramount’s Brad Grey with the idea and Grey immediately worked with the team at Paramount to secure the rights”.
If the remake rights did originate with Nicholson, it makes it unlikely Murray would have been in the running. Yet contradictions have characterised reporting on the remake, with original director Maren Ade initially confirmed as being on board, but later saying she and her producer would have nothing to do with it.
Murray signed on to 2014 comedy St Vincent after the director, Theodore Melfi, agree to adapt the role for him after Melfi’s first choice, Nicholson, turned the film down.
No director has yet been confirmed for the Toni Erdmann remake, but many are tipping Alexander Payne to take the reins, having won acclaim for Nicholson in 2004 comedy About Schmidt and recently worked with Wiig on the forthcoming Downsizing.
Last week in the reading group, I quoted some of the ecstatic praise that greeted Nights at the Circus when it was published in 1984, but I could just as easily have cited more doubtful reviews. In the London Review of Books, Michael Wood grumbled that it was a “disconcerting narrative”, while Adam Mars-Jones, in his Times Literary Supplement review, enjoyed the first third but worried about the “impossibilities” thereafter. Carolyn See in the New York Times was especially dubious: “Page by page, even chapter by chapter, Nights at the Circus is delicious, a sweet for the mind, but after a while, it’s hard not to get a little queasy.”
Those critics have some valid points, although how much their concerns might worry you is a matter of taste. See’s complaint in particular is both hard to argue against and easy to dismiss. The only thing I’d directly contest is the idea that you get queasy “after a while” – my head was swimming on page one. Fevvers arrives with wings on her back and a voice clanging like dustbin lids, spouting apparent nonsense about being hatched, flashing “vast, blue, indecorous” eyes, spinning around on her “plush-topped” chair, daring us to believe her or not, turning triple somersaults, showing her bum in a gaudy poster.
But, unlike See, I’d say that queasiness a virtue, and a deliberate effect. Carter makes this clear in the way she has Fevvers direct her narrative at the young American journalist Jack Walser (who was inspired by Jack London) – and reinforces his bemusement with the intoxication of champagne. Fevvers plies him with drink, and just to add to the nauseating, heady atmosphere, it’s drink that’s been cooled in fishmonger’s ice:
And this twice-used ice must surely be the source of the marine aroma - something fishy about the Cockney Venus - that underlay the hot, solid composite of perfume, sweat, greasepaint and raw, leaking gas that made you feel the air of Fevvers’ dressing room in lumps.
In lumps! It’s gorgeous writing. But it’s also overwhelming. To read it is to breathe the thick air in Fevvers’ dressing room – that “essence of Fevvers” that clogs the place – and gives Walser such discomfort. Everything is also bright, large, loud, including the very words on the page:
A redoubtable corset of the kind called an Iron Maiden poked out of the empty coalscuttle like the pink husk of a giant prawn emerging from its den, trailing long laces like several sets of legs.
Such a facility with metaphors is a wonderful thing, but they don’t half draw attention to themselves; I had to swim up for air after seeing that prawn in its underwater den. There were plenty more moments where I burst out of the narrative. Take, for instance, the offhand remark that “the drawing room was snug as a groin”.
“Snug as a groin.” On the one hand, it’s genius. Who thinks like that? Who else commands words so well? On the other, it booted me right out of the story.
I was thrown into a similar reverie by the beautiful description of the skeletal Madame Schreck and her voice “like wind in graveyards”. Such sonorous evocation of haunting and fading and evil and … what was happening in the actual story? I found myself having to “shake my mind”, just like Walser does.
It isn’t just the dazzling metaphors that left me squinting and dizzy. There are the lurid double entendres (that snug groin isn’t the half of it). There are the constant questions and interrogations of reality, looping around the whole strange conceit of the woman who may have wings, or who may be pretending to have wings, or who may be pretending to be pretending to have wings to conceal the fact that she really does have wings … There are florid descriptions, great pile-ups of words, moments of passing strangeness and deep horror. Sometimes all at once:
As I goes out the bedroom, I glances over my shoulder, to see what the old hag’s up to now, and bugger me, if she hasn’t precipitated herself bodily into that sage, and is hugging the riches it contains to her skinny bosom with the most vehement display of passion making faint, whinnying sounds the while.
The word I’d be tempted to use is “excess”. Except, little is wasted here; it’s ripe and full to the brim, but nothing spills over. As an editor, I’d be hard pressed to make a cut. It all adds up. We’re made to feel queasy because the world is unstable; because flying is necessarily a vertiginous pursuit; because, frankly, the world is sick. And those metaphors aren’t just for show. Often they sow disquiet, they add to that disconcerting feeling that bothered Michael Wood; they point out hidden truths. They also enable Carter to make stark contrasts. There’s a moment when the apparently luxurious whorehouse is seen in the “cold light of early dawn” and we learn: “the luxury of the place had been nothing but illusion, created by the candles of midnight and in the dawn, all was sere, worn-out decay. We saw the stains of damp and mould on ceilings and the damask walls; the gilding on the mirrors was all tarnished and a bloom of dust obscured the glass so that, when we looked within them, there we saw, not the fresh young woman that we were, but the hags we would become, and knew that, we too, like pleasures, were mortal.”
Likewise the gaudy, baroque, flighty descriptions bump up against the earthy truths in the book. Carter described Nights at the Circus as “psychedelic Dickens” in a letter to her friend Deborah Rogers, because of its blend of hard realism and fantasy. Edmund Gordon’s biography of Carter points out this realism is often manifested in tea-drinking, smoking, matters lavatorial, solid physical descriptions. It also shows itself in pain, physical struggle and death.
The more I read, the more I began to understand that Carter was also talking about – among other things – the abuse of power and the abuse of strength. About cruelty and confinement. About the difficulty of ever spreading your wings and showing who you really are. I realised she was saying something serious and strong and that all those flights of fancy and absurdities reveal heavy truths. It’s the iron fist in the plushvelvet glove, the one that draws your eye right in so it can whack you blindingly hard.
The actor who will replace the late Kenny Baker as iconic droid R2-D2 in the Star Wars films has been announced. Jimmy Vee, a 57-year-old Scottish actor who has appeared in Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone and Pan will take on the role, having apparently learned the ropes from Baker himself.
Vee actually appeared as the droid in 2015’s Star Wars: The Force Awakens, but went uncredited, with Baker named as the actor. The replacement’s first official outing in costume will be tStar Wars: The Last Jedi, to be released at Christmas.
We're thrilled to announce that #OhSoSmall actor @RealJimmyVee is the new #R2D2!Full story here: https://t.co/eR2OKAdDR4#StarWars pic.twitter.com/FT1IAWno8I
Baker died last summer, aged 81. Like Baker, Vee is 3ft 6in tall. Vee will play the droid when he’s walking on two feet; other shots are achieved with a radio-controlled unit.
Vee said: “It’s been an absolute pleasure to have worked alongside the legendary Kenny Baker. Kenny was a fantastic actor and taught me all the tricks on how he brought R2-D2 to life, which I will continue to portray in his honour.
“I’m so excited to be a part of the Star Wars universe and can’t wait for everyone to see what we’ve been working so hard on for the last year.”
Meanwhile, Glasgow University has announced their inaugural Star Wars course – a one day seminar held initially on key Star Wars date 4 May called Star Wars and Philosophy: Destiny, Justice and the Metaphysics of the Force. The course synopsis reads:
The Star Wars universe is one in which a mysterious force, the Force, governs all and directs the destiny of individuals and civilisations alike. But what does the notion that a person has a destiny – a fixed future – tell us about how free that person’s actions really are, and how morally responsible for those actions they can legitimately be held to be? This day event will examine this and associated questions concerning the relationship between there being a fixed future, free will, and moral praise or blame, all against the backdrop of George Lucas’ epic tale of the triumph of good over evil in a galaxy far, far away.
Course organiser Dr John Donaldson justified the course to the BBC on the grounds of enhancing the accessibility of philosophy.
“It’s an unfortunate fact that philosophy tends to be hidden away in universities,” he said. “You don’t get programmes about philosophy on TV for example, which you do about other academic subjects. You don’t tend to get books that deal with philosophical ideas. It’s not that accessible. We hope it will engage people and encourage them to take philosophy further.”
The dynamic Chilean comedy Gloria went down a storm at the 2013 Berlinale where Paulina García was named best actress for her portrayal of a divorcee hitting the Santiago singles circuit. Now its director, Sebastián Lelio, is back at this year’s festival with another story of a resilient female refusing to live her life according to the demands of others. A Fantastic Woman has emerged as the mid-festival favourite for the Golden Bear, with the newcomer Daniela Vega likely to get her hands on the same prize as García. Such a win would be not only deserved but unprecedented, since it would make Vega the first transgender performer to scoop a major acting award.
Although A Fantastic Woman reunites the Gloria team, including Lelio’s co-writer, Gonzalo Maza, and his ambitious cinematographer, Benjamín Echazarreta, the tone of the new film is moody, even Hitchcockian in places, with precious few of the depressurising laughs of its predecessor. That’s only to be expected when the opposition faced by Marina (Vega), a young transgender singer in a relationship with an older man, is so brutal. She has only just moved in with Orlando (Francisco Reyes) when he suffers a fatal aneurysm. Before his body is even cold, she is being treated with suspicion and contempt by the authorities.
They’re pussycats compared to Orlando’s family, who openly insult the grieving woman. His flinty ex-wife, Sonia (Aline Küppenheim), bans her from the funeral, while his dishevelled son, Bruno (Nicolás Saavedra), graduates quickly from contempt to violence. An investigation into Orlando’s death is conducted by the brusque Adriana (Amparo Noguera), who heads the Sexual Offences Unit. She tells Marina that she understands and supports her, but the look of revulsion on her face tells a different story. Lelio has rather mischievously littered the cast with doppelgangers: Adriana and Sonia are dead ringers for one another, while Marina’s pick-up in a gay nightclub is the spit of Bruno. It’s as though the rest of the world has descended into one homogenous, hostile mass, with Marina distinguished not by gender but by her courage.
A Fantastic Woman is ultimately a battle about point of view and who gets control of it. Orlando’s family is thrown into chaos because life for them stops being exactly as it always was. When they meet Marina, they literally cannot believe their eyes. “I don’t know what I’m seeing,” gasps Sonia, while Bruno says: “I don’t know what you are.” What they can’t comprehend is that this isn’t their story. Whereas, say, The Crying Game views its trans character exclusively through male eyes and male desire, A Fantastic Woman affords Marina her own identity and perspective. It is her experience, rather than the way she appears to others, which defines everything from camera placement to music to the brief detours into fantasy which include a tinsel-strewn dance number. When the camera does finally show her practically naked, it is in a casual moment of relaxed solitude, rather than during the intrusive physical examination that is sprung on her earlier in the film.
Others keep trying to impose their vision of Marina on her. In the most disturbing scene, she is temporarily disfigured by her tormentors, who are desperate to make her see how she looks through their eyes. But they don’t realise they are mere supporting characters in a movie that celebrates her strength and spirit. In the restaurant where she waits tables, the walls are decorated with snarling triceratops and jabbing pterosaurs, but it is her enemies who are the real dinosaurs here. Perhaps that’s why Lelio stages his own version of that moment in Jurassic Park when a car is menaced by a runaway Tyrannosaurus rex. Only here it’s Marina doing the menacing for once, playing the dinosaurs at their own game.
Vega dominates virtually every frame, with Echazarreta’s widescreen compositions placing her at the centre of closeups that revel in her quick, darting intelligence; she’s like a softer, sweeter Tracey Emin. And she must have worn out a fair few pedometers during the endless backwards dolly shots in which she strides purposefully along the streets toward the retreating camera. Empathy was never going to be a problem for a film this single-minded. We have walked many miles in Marina’s shoes by the time she embarks upon a hilltop run near the end of the movie, rising at last above the concrete and cruelty of the city below.
Two familiar names crop up in the end credits – Lelio’s countryman Pablo Larraín (Jackie, The Club) and the Toni Erdmann director Maren Ade are both credited as producers. With A Fantastic Woman, Lelio proves himself easily their equal, as well as suggesting that he may be a pretender to Almodóvar’s throne. He is currently directing Rachel Weisz and Rachel McAdams in his first English-language film, Disobedience, which he has adapted with the British playwright Rebecca Lenkiewicz from Naomi Alderman’s novel. For now, though, he should savour the considerable accomplishment of A Fantastic Woman. It may be a timely film, but it is its timelessness, as well as its depths of compassion, that qualify it as a great one.
Before reading this book, I had lived a life in utter ignorance of the MGS. That is, the Mouse Grimace Scale, a “standardised behavioural coding system with high accuracy and reliability” (according to the scientific literature) used by experimenters to determine how much pain a mouse is in. Professor Bourke’s book is about pain in humans, but the mice appear in a chapter that asks whether gestures of pain are innate or learned. Research into animal expressions to help us understand human ones has a pedigree, if I may use the word, that goes back at least to Charles Darwin.It seems that the answer is both. We learn that different cultures are taught to react differently to pain, and that facial and gestural reactions to painful stimuli are not universal. “A child has hurt himself and he cries; and then adults talk to him and teach him explanations and, later, sentences. They teach the child a new pain-language,” as Wittgenstein puts it in Philosophical Investigations, and quoted here.
However, pain’s essence lies beyond articulation. Our attempts to describe it, as Bourke notes, are almost always inadequate. And pain is boring: horrible and seemingly relentless, wholly preoccupying and unwelcome. What is interesting – and this is one of the book’s strengths and wherein lies much of its usefulness – is in the way those who have to deal professionally with pain do so. The section on surgeons who operated before the invention of anaesthetic is particularly wince-inducing. With no means of controlling their patients’ pain, surgeons had to be swift and deaf to cries of agony, leading to criticisms of inhumanity. However, it was best thus. “The great surgeon Sir Robert Liston could remove a limb in less than a minute, but even lesser surgeons were renowned for their speed and their firmness,” writes Bourke. Not all surgeons were so competent, or their patients so – relatively – fortunate. Here is the testimony of Emma Edmonds, a nurse at the time of the American civil war, commenting on one surgeon’s efforts: she “once saw a surgeon amputate a limb, and I could think of nothing else than of a Kennebec Yankee whom I once saw carve a Thanksgiving turkey; it was his first attempt at carving, and the way in which he disjointed those limbs I shall never forget.” Once again, it is comparison with the animal that brings home what it is to be human.
Other professional attitudes to pain were more sinister. Bourke tells of those pseudo-scientists who could pronounce, with circular logic, that African women were far more stoical than European women in childbirth, due to their more primitive brains; also, their children’s heads were smaller – because of their more primitive brains. Generalisations about pain could also be used to ignore pain in all sorts of people – mainly women and the working class. A Punch cartoon of 1912 shows an army private complaining of pain in his abdomen. The sergeant-major replies: “You don’t ’ave no ’abdomen; you ’ave a stomick. It’s only officers what ’as abdomens.” And if you think this kind of attitude no longer exists, think again: Bourke tells of how in the US Oxycontin and other effective analgesics “are generally withheld from minority and underprivileged patients, in part because of media-led panics about its misuse and its value on the black market”.
Bourke’s book has less to say about pain itself than another book I read, more than a decade ago: Marni Jackson’s Pain: The Fifth Vital Sign, which I remember with gratitude because it helped me deal with a few days of debilitating pain I was suffering in which painkillers were useless. This is more a book to make you informed (and occasionally angry) about cultural attitudes to pain. But that’s still useful.
• The Story of Pain: From Prayer to Painkillers is published by Oxford. To order a copy for £9.34 (RRP £10.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
The mayor of London will join some of the leading names in British film at a free premiere screening of the Oscar-nominated The Salesman, the Iranian director of which was affected by Donald Trump’s travel ban.
During Academy Awards night on 26 February, Trafalgar Square will be transformed into London’s biggest open-air cinema for the first UK showing of Asghar Farhadi’s drama, hours before the Oscars are handed out in Hollywood.
Leading names from the British film industry, including the Palme d’Or-winning director Mike Leigh, will address an expected audience of up to 10,000 people in central London.
Sadiq Khan, the London mayor, is organising the screening, alongside the actor Lily Cole, the producer Kate Wilson and the film-maker Mark Donne, to coincide with the Oscars and “celebrate the capital’s success as a creative hub and beacon for openness and diversity” after the Brexit vote.
The announcement comes after actors and film-makers including Julie Christie, Kevin Macdonald, Keira Knightley, Ridley Scott and Terry Gilliam wrote to the Duke of Westminster to ask for permission to hold a screening outside the US embassy to protest against the US president’s ban on visitors from seven Muslim-majority countries: Iran, Iraq, Sudan, Libya, Somalia, Syria and Yemen.
The Salesman is nominated for best foreign language film at the Oscars and stars Taraneh Alidoosti and Shahab Hosseini, who won best actor at Cannes last year. The film also won best screenplay at Cannes. Farhadi, who won a best foreign language film Oscar for A Separation in 2012, said he would not attend this year’s ceremony even if he were offered special dispensation, in solidarity with those who had been affected by the ban.
Farhadi said the Trafalgar Square screening had great symbolic value. “The gathering of the audience around The Salesman in this famous London square is symbolic of unity against the division and separation of people,” he said.
“I offer my warmest thanks to the mayor of London and the cinema community for this generous initiative. I welcome and appreciate this invaluable show of solidarity.”
Leigh said Farhadi, who he has known since serving with him on the 2012 Berlin film festival jury, was “one of the world’s greatest film-makers”.
“For those of us who make movies about real life, real people and real issues, he is a master, a true inspiration to all of us. We must show solidarity with Asghar and his principles, against divisiveness and hate,” Leigh said.
The London screening will begin at 4.30pm. Curzon Artificial Eye is also showing the film across the country on the same day.
Philip Knatchbull, the chief executive of Curzon, said it was a real privilege to be able to celebrate The Salesman with such a marquee screening. “Curzon is committed to film-makers from across the world who have outward-looking and inclusive voices, and to find common cause in that aim with the mayor of London is tremendous,” he said.
Trump’s executive order, now blocked by US courts, was roundly condemned by the international community, the UN and human rights groups, including the International Rescue Committee and Amnesty International.
The initial letter requesting a US embassy screening, which was redirected to Royal Parks, was also signed by Joanna Natasegara, the producer of the Oscar-nominated documentary The White Helmets, about the volunteer civil defence force operating in Syria.
Natasegara had intended to bring to the ceremony as her guests Raed Saleh, the leader of the White Helmets, and the cinematographer Khaled Khateeb, but despite being nominated for a Nobel peace prize, they would have been denied by Trump’s ban.
Farhadi originally planned to attend the Oscars ceremony to highlight “the unjust circumstances that have arisen for the immigrants and travellers of several countries to the United States”, he wrote to the New York Times. But the conditions that would be attached to a potential entry visa were unacceptable, he said.
The director compared the framing of the ban to the rhetoric of hardliners in Iran. “In order to understand the world, they have no choice but to regard it via an ‘us and them’ mentality, which they use to create a fearful image of ‘them’ and inflict fear in the people of their own countries,” he wrote.
Alidoosti also vowed to boycott the ceremony.
Trump's visa ban for Iranians is racist. Whether this will include a cultural event or not,I won't attend the #AcademyAwards 2017 in protest pic.twitter.com/CW3EF6mupo
Michael Bolton’s Big, Sexy Valentine’s Day Special has a terrible Netflix rating. At time of writing it only has two measly stars, which in fairness isn’t much of a surprise. When you give a show a title like this, you’re doomed to only attract diehard Michael Bolton fans.
And make no mistake, diehard fans will hate this. Because Michael Bolton’s Big, Sexy Valentine’s Day Special is weird. It’s deliberately, aggressively weird. It’s hammy and filthy and stupid, and a full-blown kick in the face to anyone who’s ever sincerely loved Bolton’s powerfully soft music.
It is also, by some distance, the funniest Netflix Original that’s ever been made. Michael Bolton’s Big, Sexy Valentine’s Day Special takes the form of a sort of faux telethon. Bolton – the real Bolton, performer of hits like How Am I Supposed to Live Without You – is tasked by Santa to create 75,000 new pregnancies in an hour, because he’s accidentally made 75,000 too many presents for next Christmas. Bolton responds by being as unstoppably sexy as he possibly can.
Presenting from his “love nest” – “designed by clinically insane Swedish architects to encourage optimal lovemaking” – Bolton introduces a range of erotic acts. Sarah Silverman and Randall Park perform a Sonny and Cher-style duet about pubes. Eric Andre teaches you how to do a dance called the Cupid Shuffle. Will Forte plays Bolton’s twin brother, Michael Folton. Maya Rudolph sings a song that contains about 20 key changes. And Bolton himself finds himself locked in a Duelling Banjos face-off with Kenny G, played by Andy Samberg.
Obviously, this is all so sexy that it inspires everyone to wear out their mattresses, much to the consternation of a furious mattress salesman who finds himself fulfilling so many lifetime guarantees that he goes crazy and accidentally murders Father Christmas. See? Weird.
Michael Bolton’s Big, Sexy Valentine’s Day Special is the creation of the Lonely Island and many of Comedy Bang Bang’s writers – including several Birthday Boys – who also jointly happen to be responsible for Samberg’s jarringly odd stint as Emmys host a couple of years ago. Its genesis appears to be Bolton’s appearance in the Lonely Island’s Jack Sparrow video, in which Bolton junked his reputation as a relentlessly sincere power balladeer in order to describe the plot of the Pirates of the Caribbean films in unnecessary detail. This is basically that shtick stretched out for an hour, but by God it works.
This is largely down to Bolton’s performance. Bolton is not a natural actor, and he seems slightly dazed by the contents of the special, to the point that it sometimes seems as if he’s just phonetically repeating back lines thrown at him by the writers. But what he is, though, is mercilessly game. He’s clearly up for anything – there’s a scene where he tries to seduce a woman via virtual reality, and another where Michael Sheen screams at him for two and a half minutes – and his willingness to send himself up is endearing. He never once tips over into the self-parodic desperation of David Hasselhoff, either, which was probably the biggest danger here.
So Bolton fans don’t like Michael Bolton’s Big, Sexy Valentine’s Day Special because it’s actually an esoteric hipster comedy. And you, a discerning fan of esoteric hipster comedy, haven’t watched it because it’s called Michael Bolton’s Big, Sexy Valentine’s Day Special. But you should. It’s screamingly funny, far more successful than that awful Netflix Bill Murray Christmas special and, if enough people watch it, maybe Netflix will do the decent thing and give the Birthday Boys a series. You should drop everything and check it out.
Sufjan Stevens is among the artists who have raised concerns over the Grammys’ alleged bias towards white artists, suggesting that Beyoncé did not prevail at the awards like many had expected, because the Grammys are “threatened by her talent, power, persuasion and potential”.
On 12 February, Beyoncé’s most recent album Lemonade, regarded by many as her career best, lost to Adele’s 25 in the best album category – a decision that the winning singer herself declared unjustified.
Beyoncé did go on to win two awards – best video for Formation and best contemporary urban album – but her accolades remained outside of the main categories.
In the 59-year history of the Grammys, only 10 black artists have won album of the year – something that has raised urgent questions about the show’s honouring process. Recent years have seen albums widely regarded as landmark snubbed: Kendrick Lamar’s To Pimp a Butterfly lost to Taylor Swift’s 1989; Frank Ocean’s Channel Orange to Mumford and Sons’ Babel; Beyoncé’s eponymous 2013 visual album to Beck’s Morning Phase.
In the wake of the event, Stevens posed a provocative question that implied the bias of the awards, bringing the issue of race and the Grammys to light:
Q: WTF is “Urban Contemporary”?
A: It’s where the white man puts the incomparable pregnant black woman because he is so threatened by her talent, power, persuasion and potential.
His post was supported by Annie Clarke, otherwise known as St Vincent, while Beyoncé’s sister and fellow Grammy award winner Solange Knowles also voiced her frustration in a number of tweets that have since been deleted.
She wrote: “There have only been two black winners [at the Grammys] in the last 20 years for Album of the Year. There have been over 200 black artists who have performed.”
“Create your own committees, build your own institutions, give your friends awards, award yourself, and be the gold you wanna hold, my Gs.”
These points echo Ocean, who described the awards as “dated” in a New York Times interview. On the day of the ceremony, Ocean elaborated on his reasons for boycotting this year’s event in a new post on his Tumblr, which saw the singer lambast the Grammys for honouring Taylor Swift over Kendrick Lamar and declaring his pride in disassociating with the institution: “I am young, black, gifted and independent.”
He added: “I actually wanted to participate in honoring Prince on the show but then I figured my best tribute to that man’s legacy would be to continue to be myself out here and to be successful.”
A small, gilded panel of Christ, flanked by saints Paul and Peter, has just gone on display in the Ferens Gallery in Hull. This quiet, static image, painted around 1320 by Pietro Lorenzetti of Siena, was acquired by the newly refurbished gallery in 2013. There they stand, cut off at the waist. The painting is a quiet little thing, the centrepiece of a display of early Renaissance works, both borrowed and from the gallery’s collection. It is a great room. On the opposite wall is a small alabaster carved relief of the Resurrection of Christ, a so-called “Nottingham Alabaster” carved in about 1450. It has lost most of its polychrome finish, and is as bare as naked flesh. What a lively, grim little object it is; how fragile it makes us seem.
Outside, a gleaming white rotor blade for a wind-turbine is propped at an angle across Queen Victoria Square, the sharp end pointing vaguely towards Primark. The blade, manufactured in Hull by Siemens, was installed with much fanfare and ado last month, marking the start of Hull’s year as UK city of culture. We go from the early renaissance to the ready-made in a few easy steps.
Conceived by artist Nayan Kulkarni, the blade itself is impressive enough – though claims that this is somehow on a par with Richard Serra’s monumental Tilted Arc (which cut across Manhattan’s Foley Federal Plaza until, after much protest, it was removed in 1989), or Marcel Duchamp’s appropriated objects must be treated with caution.
The fat, cylindrical end of the blade is housed in a horrible grey MDF structure, while the tip is supported by a giant clamp on a tripod. Underneath lie oblong boxes, big enough to sit on, though each bears a sign telling us not to climb or stand on the benches, though that is exactly what you want to do, to get a raised view of the slanted, soaring blade. An elegant, lovely piece of engineering, it is somehow diminished by being shorn of its function. It is only big.
Duchamp, visiting the Paris Aviation Show in 1919 with sculptor Constantin Brancusi and coming face-to-face with an aircraft propeller, supposedly remarked: “Who could do anything better than this! Look, could you do that?” Another version of the story has Brancusi exclaiming: “Now that’s what I call sculpture!” Bigging it up in the square is not enough.
Down at the docks, a small lectern stands on the quay. You can climb up and give a sort of improvised lecture, typing messages that appear, as if by magic, in lights on the side of the enormous Tidal Surge Barrier a few hundred yards away. A commission by Michael Pinsky, The City Speaks is programmed with a limited vocabulary, so as not to recognise rude words. I don’t know if references to Brexit are allowed, or personal comments about our politicians, as our own European surge barrier goes into operation.
The streets of Hull were once a bit less well-mannered. “Coum are fab and kinky, Coum are in the police files, Coum are plotting your overthrow, Coum are messiahs, Coum are wise, Coum are stupid, Coum are an orgy, Coum have a frightening view of reality.” So reads a list of 1001 Ways to COUM. It goes on, at great length, across a wall of the new “pop up” Humber Street Gallery in the heart of Hull docks – in the same building that, in the early 1970s, was the home of COUM Transmissions, founded by Hull University dropout Genesis P-Orridge in 1969 and soon joined by Cosey Fanni Tutti and a gaggle of pseudonymous misfits (Spydee, Foxtrot Echo) whose names are as silly as the things they did.
COUM enlivened the local arts scene with renegade performances, happenings, concerts and outrages. They were never just a band. In one dark space at Humber Street Gallery, these individual members of COUM are presented as video portraits, reminiscing about the good old days as artistic and sexual outlaws.
Maybe you had to be there – when COUM supported Hawkwind in 1971; when they celebrated Britain joining the European Community in 1972; when they performed in Amsterdam in 1974; or when their Prostitution exhibition at London’s ICA in 1976 led Tory MP Sir Nicholas Fairbairn to call them “wreckers of civilisation”, an epiphet Coum probably enjoyed.
The show ends just as COUM transmogrified into the industrial band Throbbing Gristle. For all the ramshackle performances, the art remains obscure: a sort of mad, post-hippy, proto-punk moment, just before what was called “underground” culture became mainstream. It all has the feel of nostalgia. COUM was barely an art movement at all, and an unoriginal one at that. It was more a way of life. The music, which still has a cultish following, may have been more significant.
By the end of the list of the group’s undoubted qualities – “Coum are odious”, “Coum use squeaky Durex”, “Coum decompose the impossible” – I am flagging. COUM are coming, again, and again. Or not coming, in the case of Genesis P-Orridge, desperately masturbating in fuzzy, degraded video footage from a 1974 performance. Even with the help of a vibrator in his bottom he isn’t quite getting there, wherever there was. Here he is again, bleeding and staunching himself. I missed the bit where he tries to insert his penis into a bottle.
I could have done with more performance material. Instead, 22 vitrines crowd the galleries, all stuffed with fliers, statements, notes, lists, drawings and grainy photographs. There’s more on the walls, none of this tide of paper and oddments annotated or given any sort of context. Explanations, we are told, will come later.
Postcards and manifestos, handwritten performance prop lists, leaflets and contact sheets, an old tambourine and a PVC strap costume, a black leather diamante eye-patch and g-string, angry notes – these all comes from Cosey’s private collection and from Tate Archives, which purchased P-Orridge’s collection some years ago. Unless you are a hardcore fan, these relics are an undoubted slog.
P-Orridge, born Neil Megson, went on to transform himself into his wife, Jacqueline Breyer, and goes by the name of Genesis Breyer P-Orridge. The pair underwent bouts of surgery in an attempt to fuse themselves, physically and psychically, into a dual being, each resembling the other. Breyer died in 2007, aged 37, from stomach cancer.
This April, Faber & Faber publish Cosey’s autobiography, Art Sex Music. The story of COUM, and its later manifestations, have proceeded with various members. The story is more interesting sociologically than it is artistically, a sort of Spinal Tap with sex and gender issues, bad blood and amateur-hour performance art, augmented with Botox and breast implants, as well as ideas from Fluxus and Viennese actionism.
Whatever they did may well have been anarchic, subversive and even shocking, but the shock has evaporated. You can access videos of people doing weird things to themselves and to each other with a few taps of your smartphone – and watch it all in HD. Wandering the streets of Hull in a gas mask and a clown’s outfit wouldn’t raise an eyebrow nowadays. People would probably ask if you were doing it for charity.
What the exhibition lacks is precisely what made COUM interesting – that is to say, what they actually did. Much went unrecorded or was lost. You had to have been there. Sadly, being here now is not enough.

The Nile Project is an intriguing collective of musicians from the countries along the river and its tributaries, from Egypt down to Ethiopia, Rwanda and Burundi. They get together to explore musical connections, give workshops and concerts, and in the process have become something of a model for African cooperation on issues such as water conflicts. They have also created an accessible African fusion style, as they show with their first studio album. There’s an easygoing, bluesy edge to many of the songs, along with melodies that won’t startle western audiences, and there’s some impressive singing and instrumental work. The best track, Tenseo, is a 12-minute workout that matches Ethio-jazz saxophone and vocals against Egyptian oud improvisation, while elsewhere there are collaborations involving the Rwandan enanga (a plucked zither), Ethiopian vocals and Egyptian drums, and rousing solos on the ikembe (thumb piano) or Ugandan adungu (harp).
Sprawling under its haze, sucking in people from across America and all over the world, its gaudy luxury and prosperous suburbs in close proximity with communities immobilised by poverty and crime, Los Angeles is an ideal place for fiction. It is peopled by the madly hopeful and the horribly hopeless, with a fair sprinkling of geniuses and gangsters among those just getting by; F Scott Fitzgerald, Nathanael West, John Fante, Raymond Chandler, James Ellroy and Joan Didion have all set novels there. To add to this welter of LA tales, we now have The Burning Ground, a quietly excellent collection of short stories set in that kaleidoscopic city, and the first prose book by the poet Adam O’Riordan.
An epigraph from Christopher Isherwood indicates the kind of place O’Riordan’s LA will be: “Don’t cry to me for safety. There is no home here … Understand this fact, and you will be free. Accept it, and you will be happy.” The first story, “A Thunderstorm in Santa Monica”, neatly follows from this warning of homelessness. Harvey, a young British man, is spending more money than he should on flights to the city to pursue a love affair with the older, more successful Teresa. On this occasion, Teresa has had to go to New York on business and Harvey is left to his own devices. Turbulence on the flight over, Harvey’s enforced, dislocated solitude and an approaching storm together accumulate an uncomfortable atmosphere of diffuse threat and depleting emptiness in sumptuous surroundings (surely one of LA’s signature experiences).
The prose is smoothly effective, its skill unobtrusive. This is short story writing in the mode of William Trevor or John Cheever rather than John Updike or Denis Johnson. Phrasing is felicitous without being pyrotechnic, as when the moment of take off produces “the  focused quiet of an exam hall as passengers concentrated on keeping calm and pretending what was happening was perfectly normal. The plane continued to ascend, the patchwork of fields dropping away below as London’s suburbs petered out into countryside.” This style is in harmony with stories that are often built up out of observation, with central characters who are spectators more often than actors.
This is true of the longest, most shamelessly eventful story in the collection, “Rambla Pacifico”. Here we’re in familiar LA noir territory. Our hero, Lindstrom, is charged by his wealthy boss with the recovery of his beautiful, wayward daughter, who has been kidnapped – a plot out of Chandler or Ellroy. Lindstrom seeks the help of Jesus Porfirio, the menacing muscle who actually finds the girl and does the dirty work. With its double crosses and cynical heroes, opaque plots and fatal beauties, its high body count and sinister shadows, noir was a form in which the trauma and lingering effects of the second world war were worked through. O’Riordan is acute about this. War experience haunts the story and the violence, even when happening out of sight, is pungently nasty. O’Riordan does without noir’s intricate plotting, however. The narrative is straightforward; what the reader expects to happen does. The story’s distinctiveness lies in occasional details, the way Adella walking past “would make the air feel heavy in your lungs”, or the man falteringly playing the oboe among the group of abusers when Adella is finally found drugged and brutalised on a mattress in an abandoned factory.
You are never in doubt that you are reading the work of an elegant and greatly accomplished writer
The next story in the collection makes non-participation its subject. McCauley is a congenital spectator. In old age now, he recalls his war service when the dropping of the nuclear bombs in Japan meant he missed out on action in the Pacific. Later he’d become a fan of surfing but not a surfer. The incident that haunts him involves coming upon his wife apparently engaged in a threesome with two macho surfers and not interrupting them. Again, there are no twists or reversals here. McCauley recalls these events and the story ends without producing epigrammatic insight or personal redemption. The effect of this here and throughout the book is double-edged. When it works well, the stories linger in the mind as strong impressions, simultaneously complete and unresolved. When less convincing, the stories feel anecdotal and limited by their avoidance of direct confrontation. Still, you are never in doubt that you are reading the work of an elegant and greatly accomplished writer whose future promises much.
• Adam Foulds’ The Quickening Maze is published by Vintage. The Burning Ground is published by Bloomsbury. To order a copy for £16.99 (RRP £13.49) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
The uneasy tide of untruths has been rising, so subtly that we are up to our chins without being sure how it ever got to that point.
The recent jaw-dropping performance of Donald Trump and his cronies, firing off random statements without even bothering to check whether they are true, is not as disturbing as the fact that they seem to be getting away with it. It is no longer enough for a reputable press outlet to cry foul – the corrections are shrugged off as partisan conspiracy theorists, and the exposé no longer leads to shame, or the mending of ways. Say something loud enough and often enough, and it starts to sound true. Get away with it enough, and it becomes a viable strategy.
The resistance to truth has been building for some time. The general public has had enough of experts, we were told last year before the Brexit referendum. But actually, expert views going unheeded by governments is nothing new. And the public has been swayed by charismatic pseudoscientists for hundreds of years: today’s homeopathy practitioners are just a modern version of yesterday’s snake-oil salesmen.
Among the scientific community, the preferred solution to countering irrational beliefs and outright lies has always been education and engagement. More science in schools. Science exhibitions in museums. Professional science “communicators” trudging through the tundra or hanging intrepidly off helicopters on television. And more recently, encouraging ordinary jobbing scientists to be more open about their work: pub talks, library chats, science stand-up and café scientifiques remain on the line-up in major cities, and such activities are finally being incentivised in universities, along with research output, grant income and teaching.
This is all worthy stuff, and probably works at some level. But is it enough?
I think not. First, countering the “alternative facts” mentality by providing the actual facts is only the first step. I’d even go so far as to say that it’s fatal to assume that all you need is the right message. As the snake oil peddlers know only too well, a persuasive, trusted persona is often much more effective.
Unfortunately, scientists have traditionally endured a bad reputation, rooted in ancient fears about meddling in the territory of the gods. This classic uneasiness has been reinforced in modern times by conspicuous PR disasters such as the Manhattan Project, and by the nagging suspicion that clever technology attempting to enhance nature to improve our lives might have a sting in the tail. Society’s ambivalence about science is reflected over the past century in fiction, in which the trope of well-meaning boffin losing control of his experiment is played out again and again in Hollywood and in countless speculative novels.
While science communicators and friendly jobbing scientists engaging with the public probably helps improve the overall reputation of scientists to some extent, there is always the worry that they are preaching to the converted – the sort who already like science, know roughly how it works and are not too susceptible to irrational beliefs and conspicuous lying. The real conundrum is how to reach the sort of person who wouldn’t be caught dead in a science museum or darken the door of a pub featuring researchers earnestly describing their PhD instead of widescreen sport.
My feeling is that scientists have to invade the space of popular culture in a way that they have never managed before. In their description of the new thriller Apple Tree Yard on iPlayer, the BBC described the protagonist incorrectly as a ‘doctor’ instead of a scientist – were they afraid that the S word might kill ratings?
When was the last time you saw a scientist as a contestant on a celebrity quiz programme, or switching on the Christmas lights in a town centre? How many times do scientists turn up as characters, major or minor, in television sit-coms, soaps or movies and novels about ordinary life, as opposed to in science fiction? How often are scientists asked to air casual opinions on political panels or broadcast interviews of major world events – in a milieu where it’s not uncommon to see sports figures, politicians, journalists and the like asked to comment on issues not in their remit?
Science is the invisible profession. Most people have no idea what scientists do, and may harbour a vague feeling of suspicion or uneasiness about the whole endeavour. Never seeing scientists participate in normal life only enhances the sense that they are the ‘other’, doing things that are ‘secret’ and by extrapolation, potentially dangerous.
Until very recently, Hollywood scientists were almost always portrayed with unflattering stereotypes. Though refreshing changes have occurred in recent years, with scientist characters becoming more human (and even female), we still have a long way to go to improve the image of science and its practitioners – the vanguard of rational thought – in the eyes of the world.
We scientists can no longer go it alone. We need new allies, and new strategies. Non-scientists who believe that science and the truth are concepts worth salvaging can actively help sell science too. Contrary to popular scientist belief, the humanities may actually hold the key. Writers: include more scientist characters in your fiction – not necessarily flattering portrayals, but human ones. Producers – get more scientists up on air, not even necessarily talking shop. Make them familiar, down-to-earth presences in our day-to-day world, until people are comfortable with the idea of rubbing shoulders with researchers and understand them as multi-dimensional people. Only then will the world at large have any chance of trusting the messenger.
A comic revival of Enid Blyton’s Famous Five characters gave WH Smith reason for cheer over the key festive trading period.
Strong sales of spoof titles such as Five on Brexit Island, Five Give up the Booze, and the Ladybird Books for Grown-Ups series, helped to lift sales by 1% at stores open for more than a year over the 21 weeks to 21 January. Total sales rose by 2%.
While customers returned to the adventures of Julian, Dick, Anne, George and dog Timmy, first introduced to the public during the second world war, they turned their backs on adult colouring books. Hugely popular over the same period a year earlier, sales tumbled by about 60% to 70%, according to the WH Smith chief executive, Stephen Clarke.
“They have fallen off a cliff,” Clarke said. “Last year was their first year really and people are no longer colouring in the way they were.”
The retailer, which this year celebrates its 225th birthday, said higher customer numbers at its airport shops over Christmas also helped boosted trade. Sales within the travel division – which also includes motorway service stations, hospitals and railway stations – grew by 5%, but were down by 3% at its shops on UK high streets.
Clarke said the group was up against the toughest year-on-year sales comparisons in more than a decade, after the first rise in Christmas like-for-like sales at high street in 12 years last year, fuelled by the colouring craze.
“As a result of the performance in travel we expect group profit growth for the year to be slightly ahead of plan,” Clarke said.
“While there is some uncertainty in the broader economic environment, we remain confident that the group is well positioned for the year ahead as we continue to focus on profitable growth, cash generation and investing in new opportunities.”
Clarke said WH Smith customers would be protected from Brexit-related price rises this year, partly because only about 5% of the goods and materials bought by the company are priced in dollars. Some retailers have warned that the weak pound will lead to a rise in prices this year, as materials imported from abroad are more expensive.
“We’re in a slightly better position than other retailers, particularly clothing retailers and electronics,” said Clark. “We’re doing everything we can to avoid putting our prices up.”
Shares in the retailer rose by 7.6% to £15.93, making the retailer the biggest riser on the FTSE 250.
Retail analyst Nick Bubb said the trading update would be a source of relief for investors. “Although the comparisons were tough, the business has come through well. How far the 225th anniversary celebrations of the company help trade this year remains to be seen, but the City will be relieved by the strong Christmas trading performance,” he said.
WH Smith now has 145 post offices inside its high street shops, with a further 23 planned over the rest of the financial year.
1. Five on Brexit Island
2. The Grandparent*
3. The Cat*
4. The Dog*
5. Five Give up the Booze
6. The Meeting*
7. Five go on a Strategy Day
8. The Mum*
9. Zombie Apocalypse*
10. The Husband*
*Titles in the Ladybird Books for Grown-Ups series
In the early 00s, most TV shows about teenagers, particularly the American ones, were glossy affairs propped up by a cast of actors at least 10 years older than their fictional age. Dawson’s Creek, The OC and Gossip Girl showed slick fantasy lives that revolved around money and movie-star looks. They offered a traditional portrait of what they thought their viewers might aspire to. Bizarrely, with hindsight, this involved ostentatious houses and cars and torrid romantic affairs that took on the language of middle-aged married couples.
Skins changed all that. It first aired 10 years ago today, and it took the radical step of considering what young viewers might want and aspire to by actually thinking about and consulting young viewers. It told the story of a group of mates in Bristol who were leaving school, who slept with each other, went to parties, drank a lot, smoked weed, and talked like the kids they were. Their personal dramas weren’t the dramas of adults transposed on to slightly younger adults to act out; they were smaller, more honest and more precise than that. The first series, which remains the best (I have a soft spot for the third, too, though I prefer not to think about the final cycle and the dreary “specials”), played with typical teenage issues. They were exaggerated and comic, but believable nonetheless: the characters were dealing with losing their virginity, eating disorders, school trips, sexuality, divorce, friendships, and not feeling good enough for your peers.
The actors were largely the age of the characters they played and the writers were not much older, which explains why it frequently felt alienating to anyone over the age of 25. It was smart enough to add to the fantasy by turning all of the parents into feckless idiots with no idea what their kids were up to, because they were so consumed by the dramas of their own making. It gave the show its “us against the world” swagger. Much of the controversy around its early episodes criticised its portrayal of sex, bad language, and explicit drug use. Tabloids wrote about real-life “Skins parties” with pretend disgust. But it was always careful to temper the hedonism with consequences, the comedy with tragedy. Even the wildest, most gregarious characters – Chris, and later Cook – had problems they were running away from. If it showed what teenagers might be like at the party, it also showed the hangover. Slamming it for being irresponsible missed the point: it was escapist as much as it was realistic, and it all came together best in that balance.
Many of those involved in the show went on to far bigger things: Nicholas Hoult, Tony, is an X-Man. Jack O’Connell, Cook, got Angelina Jolie to attempt a Derby accent in public, while writer Jack Thorne is at the top of his game, after the TV series of This Is England, the outstanding National Treasure, and Harry Potter and the Cursed Child. This week, Joe Dempsie, who played Chris and is now in Game of Thrones, tweeted that Dev Patel (Anwar) marked the show’s 10th anniversary by bagging an Oscar nomination.
I went back recently and watched some old episodes, suspecting that it might have dated, might feel like a relic of another time. In the 10 years since it began, teenage life has certainly changed a lot, as has the world it depicts. On the whole, teenagers don’t drink like they used to. They go out less. There aren’t as many places to go anyway, as clubs are closing down. University is expensive and tens of thousands of pounds’ worth of debt is to be taken seriously. It’s hard to imagine a show so gloriously hedonistic being made today, and that side of it now seems sadly naive. In that respect, it is something of a period piece. You might have expected it to have launched an army of teen-show imitators, but its influence has been more subtle. Its unvarnished sense of playfulness endured in series like My Mad Fat Diary, Fresh Meat, The Inbetweeners and even Chewing Gum, but there’s been nothing quite like it since.
But watching it again makes it clear that it’s still great. It’s a brilliant, original drama, full of warmth and wit and fun, still entertaining, still outrageous, and still far more grown-up than it ever let on.
You can watch Skins now on All 4 or Netflix.
This time last year JD Vance was a business manager at a Silicon Valley biotech firm, putting the final touches on a memoir about growing up dirt poor in Appalachia. He warned his boss that he might need to take a week of vacation over the summer to promote the book.
“Even that, I thought, was sort of excessive,” he recalls.
Hillbilly Elegy was published at the end of June – and Vance hasn’t stopped talking about it since. Now entering its 25th week on the New York Times’ bestseller list, it is one of the most discussed political books of the moment.
Though it doesn’t mention Donald Trump, Hillbilly Elegy has been hailed as a must-read prism into disaffection among America’s white working class and the rise of the new president. Vance, 32, is a Republican, but his writing has received accolades across the political spectrum. “Anyone wanting to understand Trump’s rise or American inequality should read it,” said Larry Summers, the Harvard economist and Bill Clinton’s former treasury secretary.
“It’s pretty insane,” Vance concedes. “I would say it has changed nearly everything in my life.”
This is the second time Vance’s life has been changed beyond recognition. The first is the subject of the memoir, which charts how he overcame a chaotic upbringing in Middletown, a deprived former steel town in the Ohio rust belt. He belongs to a fiercely proud and loyal clan descended from rural Kentucky and spares few details recounting how the family buckled under the pressures of poverty, drugs and violence.
He and his sister are brought up by their grandparents. Their father is absent, their mother a nurse and drug addict with a constant stream of boyfriends. On one occasion, she demands her young son’s urine so she can pass a drug test at the hospital where she works. On another, she spirals into a rage and threatens to crash a car and kill them both.
“It has definitely been hard on mom,” he says of the book’s raw depiction of their family life. “And that’s something that I struggle with quite a bit.” He hopes readers realize, he adds, “that when you live the life that mom has, it necessarily leaves its scars”.
Vance overcame these obstacles and made it to the marines, and then Yale Law School. But he never forgot his affinity to “white Americans of Scots-Irish descent who have no college degree”, a group for whom, he argues, “poverty is the family tradition”. “Americans call them hillbillies, rednecks, or white trash,” he says. “I call them neighbors, friends, and family.”
The memoir ends shortly after Vance graduates from Yale, where he has learned how to exploit networks and connections that many students at Ivy League schools acquired at birth – but kids from Middletown don’t even know exist.
The book finishes before it can tell the next chapter of Vance’s life: his relocation to Silicon Valley and his move, around April of last year, from the biotech firm to Mithril Capital, the venture capitalist firm founded by controversial billionaire Peter Thiel.
I ask Vance how he got the job. He says he met Thiel during a talk the tech entrepreneur gave at Yale and emailed him years later asking for work. “It was that simple,” he says.
Thiel has become a pariah in liberal Silicon Valley after backing Trump and aiding his presidential transition. Vance, who did not vote for Trump, says he’s never had a meaningful discussion with his boss about the incoming president. He insists Thiel’s reputation is unfounded, claiming he is “super thoughtful and incredibly nice”.
His view on the Bay Area is more conflicted, confessing that the unflinching optimism he sees around him can be “weird”. “This boom is just going to keep on going,” he says, recounting typical San Francisco conversations. “My life is great, my family is great, my job is great, my house is great.”
The positivity is both enviable and, he adds, disconnected from reality in the booming cities around Silicon Valley. “As an economic experiment, if your goal is to promote growth and innovation, it’s incredibly successful. As a social experiment, if you’re meaning to foster a long-term sense of community, and an attachment not just to the people that you see every day but the people that live around you, then it is not going very well at all.”
Poor in San Francisco is “absolutely” worse than the town where he grew up, he explains. “Poor in Middletown is you live in a really crappy, dilapidated house and you get your food through food stamps,” he says. “Poor out here is: ‘I’m sleeping in a street, I have no one who I really depend on’.”
He adds: “There’s this worry that I have that most of the people who live here don’t feel a special attachment to the place, or to the people who are less fortunate who live here”.
In the coming weeks, Vance will leave San Francisco – keeping the venture capitalist job if he can – and return to his native Ohio, where he has just founded a nonprofit that will help address the opioid epidemic. It is, he says, a chance to “capitalize on a platform” he has acquired since the publication of the book.
A few days before our interview, a newspaper in West Virginia, which borders Ohio, revealed pharmaceutical companies had flooded the state with a staggering 780m prescription painkillers over a six-year period – equivalent to 433 for every man, woman and child. Vance believes there is a growing appetite among Republicans and Democrats to deal with the opioid epidemic that is ravaging many rural, deprived communities.
“It is in your face, in your family, in your home,” he says, explaining why there is now widespread, bipartisan empathy for addicts. I suggest there’s racial dimension to that claim, that the opioid crisis has predominantly infiltrated the homes and families of white people, prompting a far less punitive response to the reaction to the crack epidemic.
Vance does not disagree: “There’s absolutely been a difference in a way I think the country has responded psychologically to the crack epidemic versus the opioid epidemic. So I think a lot of black Americans are completely justified in being sensitive about that fact.”
There’s been a difference in a way the country responded psychologically to the crack epidemic vs the opioid epidemic
Vance is most interesting when discussing race, which many would argue remains a more significant economic and political cleavage than class. He does not dispute that the prospects for many black Americans are materially worse than for whites but says he is skeptical about the term white privilege, cautioning that it “collapses a poor kid who is the son of an unemployed coalminer into the same group as a rich boarding school kid who grew up in New England”.
Vance is curious why opinion surveys consistently show poor whites are more pessimistic about the future.
He recalls, for example, the differing responses to Trump’s campaign message about economic and social decay. There was uproar when Trump caricatured African American inner cities, blighted by violence and poverty. “But when Trump [delivered] a very similar message – your communities are falling apart, you can’t get any jobs, it’s terrible – to white audiences, they were much more willing to listen.”
Trump’s election was seen, at least in part, as a backlash from white, working-class voters frustrated at their relative decline in status in America – symbolized, of course, by its first black president. Vance plays down this explanation, but I bring up a line in his book that seems to hint at a racially toned resentment. “Obama,” he writes, “strikes at the heart of our deepest insecurities.”
“I think that Obama is everything that the American meritocracy values at a time when a lot of us feel like the American meritocracy doesn’t value very much about us at all,” he explains. “It is just sort of like everything about him. He’s like the American ideal at the very moment that we feel like we’re the opposite of the American ideal.”
He adds: “The natural question that comes – especially in the modern political context as part of that – is the fact he has black skin. I think for some people that’s definitely part of it. But I continue to think the racial explanation of the reaction to Obama doesn’t quite capture how much everything about him is both enviable but also dislikable. Because we dislike the things that we envy.”
There is an arrogance to Obama’s demeanour, he adds, that makes him especially difficult to relate to. “He talks in a way that a professor talks, he talks in a way that you sort of aspire to talk if you’re a young law student. Trump talks like a guy at a bar in West Virginia. Trump talks like my dad sitting around the dinner table.”
When I ask about Vance’s own political ambitions he hedges, saying he has no burning ambition to run for office but would not rule it out “because maybe down the road I will”.
His return to Ohio tells a different story. As well as his nonprofit, Vance is also embarking on a listening tour, attending GOP events in the state, and enlisted the support of Jai Chabria, a former top adviser to the Republican governor, John Kasich. As the Washington Post observed: “Every step that Vance is taking is exactly what a sophisticated person in his position who wanted to run for statewide office would do.”
They also happen to be strikingly similar to steps taken by Obama during his earliest strides into politics. He, too, followed an Ivy League law degree with a foray into nonprofit work – in his case, in Chicago – and a memoir, Dreams of My Father, that wrestled with similar themes of family and racial identity and was published shortly before Obama ran for Illinois state senate in 1996.
When I point out the parallels, Vance shakes his head and demurs. “I definitely don’t see myself as doing that,” he says. “It is in some ways hard for me to imagine myself running for office, because the book was so raw. There are a lot of F-words in it.”
But a few moments later, he adds: “You know, you mention a parallel to President Obama. Maybe he didn’t think that either, right? Maybe opportunities just presented themselves and he went forward with them?”
A couple of days after our conversation, Vance emailed the New York Times with an idea for an op-ed. It was published a few days later under the title: Barack Obama and Me.
The Brian Eno of 2017 is, once again, the artfully bespectacled Wise Man of Ambient, having released his beautiful new album Reflection on New Year’s Day. That version of the man makes it harder to remember the wild feather-boa-flaunter of Roxy Music, who used analogue electronics to light a rocket up the rear of their preternaturally postmodern, wham-bam-glam rock’n’roll. Nowhere better can we find this whirling dervish than in 1972’s Ladytron, where Eno spends the first 60 seconds fiddling with bandmate Andy McKay’s VCS3 synthesiser, and creating whirlwinds out of tape echo. (Eno had been asked by Bryan Ferry to make some sounds that called to mind the moon landings.) The minor-key melody that leads us into the song proper has a signature Eno melancholy to it, already hinting towards the less manic, moving musician he would become. Still, the last 40 seconds show how brilliant being bonkers with oscillators can be.
It’s also instructive to remember Eno the solo artist before the accident that led him to listening to quieter music, which ultimately spirited his solo musical interests away from noisier territories. (I say solo, because Eno’s two LPs with David Byrne are neither quiet nor reflective, while Eno’s production work with mega-bands such as U2 and Coldplay aren’t afraid to pump up the volume.) Eno’s first two solo albums, Here Come the Warm Jets and Taking Tiger Mountain (By Strategy), are fantastic curios of their time, littered with awkward but glorious examples of art rock. In tracks such as Blank Frank and Put a Straw Under Baby, Eno is influenced by Syd Barrett in his singing style and off-the-wall lyrics, but the music throughout is often brighter and rockier. His debut album opener is a particular riot, all discordant, thrashing guitars and stop-start wham-bang.
Gentler moments were part of Eno’s world right from the start of his solo career: for unsullied loveliness, try On Some Faraway Beach from Here Come the Warm Jets, or Taking Tiger Mountain’s title track. The year things got properly peaceful, however, was 1975. In January, on the way home from a production session, Eno slipped on a rainy pavement in London into the path of a speeding taxi. He was given an album of 18th-century harp music by his then girlfriend to aid his recovery. Incapacitated one day in bed, he put the record on too quietly but couldn’t turn it up, so its sounds became part of the general ambience of the room, at the same sound level as the falling rain. Mesmerised by this effect, Eno was determined to create it later himself. Discreet Music came out that November, but September’s Another Green World also had tracks that took us into softer, smaller places. The Big Ship is the best, sailing us off divinely, delicately, letting us float with the water.
In September 1976, Eno pitched up at Harmonia’s studio in Germany for one of his most notable ambient collaborations. He’d already done two fantastic records with King Crimson’s Robert Fripp (1973’s No Pussyfooting and 1975’s Evening Star), but this project took him to the country where electronic music was quietly creating a new national soundtrack. Welcome is undeniably Eno from the off: the sweepingly sad, longing theme lulling listeners into the track, and then the whole album, has all his hallmarks. These sessions weren’t released at the time – Rykodisc finally put them out in 1997 – but Eno’s work with the band’s members continued. In 1977, Michael Rother departed, and Dieter Moebius and Roedelius regrouped as Cluster, recording the similarly softly spectacular Cluster & Eno album with their British friend.
In January 1977, the music Eno is arguably best known for was released: Warszawa, the first track from the second side of David Bowie’s Low. Eno wrote and arranged the sublime, sinister instrumental backing that makes it what it is, the main theme inspired by a figure of three consecutive notes that Tony Visconti and Mary Hopkin’s four-year-old son Delaney kept playing on the studio piano. Bowie was away at the time, attending a court case against his former manager, Michael Lippman, but on returning, heard the track, adored it, and sang his wordless, affecting melodies on top of them, inspired by a children’s choir he’d heard in the Polish capital city. Not long after, Eno told Mary Harron of Punk Magazine about the composition excitedly. “I wrote all the music for one of the numbers … it’s a very good number: I think it’s a new direction for [Bowie]. And me. A very slow, melancholy piece that’s rather like a kind of folk orchestra. An Eastern European folk orchestra.” Years later, he told Andy Gill of Mojo how brilliantly Bowie could adapt himself to the material presented to him: “[Bowie] picks up the mood of a musical landscape, such as the type I might make, and he can really bring it to a sharp focus, both with the words he uses and the style of singing he chooses.”
In December 1977, Eno released Before and After Science, most of which bursts with a shuddering, juddering nervous energy. Tracks such as Kurt’s Rejoinder and King’s Lead Hat (an anagram of Talking Heads, a band he was also producing at the time) remind us of the Eno of earlier in the decade, with added punky spirit thrown in. Julie With … is slower, more sombre, more densely romantic. Eno sings here, softer than before, telling us the story of someone being at sea with a girl wearing an open blouse, looking at the sky. The water is blue and dark as they drift into abandonment, in all senses: “No wind disturbs our coloured sail / The radio is silent, so are we.”
Ambient 1: Music for Airports was released in 1978, inspired by Eno’s experience of being forced to listen to bad disco music in a futuristic airport in Cologne, one designed (naturally) by the father of Florian Schneider from Kraftwerk. Four Ambient albums were released in total, then in 1983 came Apollo: Atmospheres and Soundtracks, recorded for a documentary about the US moon missions, For All Mankind. An Ending is one of Eno’s crowning achievements as a musician: its rapturously beautiful, innocent melody being deceptively simple in both composition and delivery, its soft high notes (played on the then new and later ubiquitous 80s keyboard the Yamaha DX7) truly sounding as if they’re coming from the great beyond. Burial sampled it brilliantly on his 2006 debut album, for the track Forgive.
In sound, this 60-minute composition is very much the child of Ambient 1: Music for Airports’ 1/1, a track based on a looped figure played on the piano by Robert Wyatt. Thursday Afternoon was written in 1985 to accompany a series of video paintings, which change slowly and imperceptibly for the viewer, much like its soundtrack. This is one of many pieces that writers have told Eno aids their writing, which fits his idea of his ambient music being functional. As he told Jarvis Cocker on a (very much recommended) New Year’s Day ambient special on BBC Radio 6Music: “[I like] this idea of making music to do something, to help people in some way, to make an atmosphere that was useful for them, and then over the years the thing I thought I most want an atmosphere for is to help my mind … to make a mental place I can go to and rely on to focus me in some way.”
The last decade has seen more interesting collaborations from Eno, including two albums with producer Jon Hopkins and two in 2014 with Underworld frontman Karl Hyde. This absorbing track closed Eno and Hyde’s second record together, driven by sounds that tremble between states of anxiety and calm, with Hyde’s surreal wordplay painting pictures of cities, building blocks, waiting and failure. A mood is struck, a sense is captured, and it snags deep under the skin.
Last year’s Eno album The Ship treated us to the sound of the then 67-year-old’s older, lower voice, processed eerily and powerfully on the strange, poetic title track, but left to sound simple, deep and sweet for the album’s final flourish. This is a cover of the Velvet Underground’s I’m Set Free. (He famously said in a 1982 interview that hardly anyone bought the Velvet Underground’s debut album “but everyone who bought one … started a band”.) Eno slows the song down in tempo, but plays up its beauty, building a chorus of voices and strings as he pushes it towards its climax. Then it quietly retreats, as Eno always does, leaving its mood behind in the memory, lingering on.
In Thomas Harris’s The Silence of the Lambs, Hannibal Lecter, incarcerated cannibal and ace profiler, tells FBI trainee Clarice Starling that the serial killer she seeks is defined by what he covets. “We begin by coveting what we see every day,” he says, describing a type that has always fascinated me, as both a reader and writer: that quiet outsider who observes life from a distance, often crossing the line into voyeurism, and sometimes crossing a further line into the criminal.
In my new book Her Every Fear, Kate Priddy, an anxiety-ridden Londoner, trades her flat for the luxurious apartment of a distant relative in Boston. Before beginning to write, I scouted the Beacon Hill neighbourhood of Boston, looking for an apartment building that could serve as a model for the novel’s pivotal location. I found what I was looking for down a brick-lined side street near the Charles river, a fenced-in Italianate oddity with a doorman, ideal because two sides of the apartment building faced each other across a courtyard. Seeing that, I immediately knew there would be a voyeur in my novel, someone who watched, and coveted, from across the way.
Books, even more than movies (often considered the most voyeuristic of artforms), allow the reader an intimate look into the lives of others. Not just into their living rooms and bedrooms but into their thoughts as well. What other medium provides that? As a reader, you become an anonymous, all-seeing voyeur. I think it’s partly why books about transgressions and depravity fill up the bestseller lists. When we read, we are looking through a window, and what we often want is something dramatically different from our own lives.
The following are my favourite books and stories that involve voyeurism in one form or another.
1. It Had to Be Murder by Cornell Woolrich (1942)This short story is more famous for being the basis of Rear Window than for being a noteworthy standalone piece. But it’s well worth a read, not just to see the bones behind one of Alfred Hitchcock’s masterpieces, but also because Woolrich’s central premise is so good. A man with a broken leg susses out a murder by obsessively watching a neighbour, building his case more on long-distance psychology than anything else.
2. The Executioners by John D MacDonald (1957)The voyeur of this novel is Max Cady, a psychotic ex-convict, out to get revenge on Sam Bowden, the family man who helped put him away for rape. What is so menacing about MacDonald’s story – filmed twice under the title of Cape Fear – is the way in which Cady just hangs around, keeping an eye on Bowden, his wife and three children, among them a 14-year-old daughter just beginning to become a woman. Before he strikes, he simply (and legally) watches. MacDonald, an underrated thriller writer, shows the helplessness and terror inherent in such a situation.
3. Psycho by Robert Bloch (1959)While everyone knows (spoiler alert) that Norman Bates is a psychopath with a split personality, he is also a committed voyeur. In Bloch’s chilling novel (supposedly inspired by the real-life serial killer Ed Gein), the last thing Norman does before donning his mother’s dress and knifing his attractive motel guest, is spy on her through a crack in the wall. It is the catalyst for the murder that changed American cinema for good. The novel, with its much briefer, but arguably more shocking description of the murder, is well worth checking out.
4. The Cry of the Owl by Patricia Highsmith (1962)There are multiple voyeurs in Highsmith’s work, but Robert Forester, a divorcee relocated to a new city who finds solace in watching a woman through her window, is a fascinating case of reversing the reader’s expectations. The voyeur is the least threatening character in The Cry of the Owl – the real danger in Highsmith country comes not from watching other humans, but from becoming emotionally involved with them.
5. The Collector by John Fowles (1963)Frederick Clegg, the titular character of John Fowles’s debut novel, has two not unrelated hobbies: he collects butterflies; and he obsessively watches, and follows, a beautiful local art student named Miranda Gray. When Clegg comes into substantial money through the football pools, he realises he has the means to build a much larger net, that he can collect Miranda, and keep that beauty all to himself.
6. Red Dragon by Thomas Harris (1981)Of all the murderers concocted by Thomas Harris, Francis Dolarhyde, the “tooth fairy” from Red Dragon, is somehow the most monstrous. This is because of both what he does, and what was done to him. Dolarhyde, scarred by a cleft palate, works in a dark room, developing home movies, and through that constant watching – the parade of happy families – he finds his victims.
7. Sliver by Ira Levin (1991)A man builds an apartment building for the sole purpose of spying on his tenants with state-of-the-art hidden surveillance cameras. It’s not quite top-notch Levin, but the novel has enough wit and devilry to push its way past some of its plot contrivances. And it’s truly ahead of its time in speculating on a world in which everyone is both watcher and watched.
8. Felicia’s Journey by William Trevor (1994)Alternating between a young Irishwoman’s quest to locate the father of her unborn child in northern England, and the story of a disturbed older man, Mr Hilditch, who watches Felicia before deciding to intervene, Trevor’s novel offers up two intimate portrayals of damaged lives. But it’s Mr Hilditch, a quiet observer without friends, whose transgressions might or might not be truly evil, who steals the book.
9. Notes on a Scandal by Zoë Heller (2003)The story of Sheba Hart, a married, middle-aged schoolteacher caught up in a sexual affair with a 15-year-old student, is told cleverly and poignantly through the eyes of Barbara Covett. Barbara is an older teacher conducting a slightly predatory friendship with Sheba. Barbara does a lot of watching and studying in this novel. Her interest in Sheba predates her knowledge of the scandal, and Heller does an absolutely brilliant job of using Sheba’s story as a way of dissecting the storyteller’s pathology.
10. You by Caroline Kepnes (2015)Joe Goldberg, the lovelorn homicidal maniac who narrates You, is obsessed with Guinevere Beck from the moment she enters the bookstore where he works. Thus begins a courtship that involves an enormous amount of voyeurism, both the old-fashioned window-peeping kind, as well as its modern version – stalking on social media sites across the net. Funny, disturbing, timely, and just a little bit romantic.
The British director Joe Wright is returning to the theatre to direct an adaptation of Bertolt Brecht’s classic play Life of Galileo.
Wright, whose films include Pride and Prejudice, Atonement and Anna Karenina, made his stage directorial debut in 2012 with Trelawny of the Wells at the Donmar Warehouse in London.
He followed that with a memorable production of A Season in the Congo with Chiwetel Ejiofor at the Young Vic, and it is to there he returns for what will be his third play.
David Lan, the Young Vic’s artistic director, said he and Wright began talking about the Brecht play nearly two years ago, but Wright’s filming schedule meant it could not happen until now.
But that was fortuitous, said Lan, as the rise of Donald Trump meant that now felt the right time to stage it. “This is the moment,” he said. “The resonance of the play is remarkable and that is because it is a remarkable play.”
The play centres on the 17th-century scientist Galileo Galilei and his discoveries about the solar system, which challenged the Catholic worldview. Its themes include the search for scientific truth and how it sometimes clashes with what leaders want the truth to be.
The play will be staged in the round and feature Brendan Cowell in the title role. The Australian actor is well established in his home country but not yet a big name in the UK, though he may be familiar to some London theatregoers for his role in Yerma at the Young Vic last year with Billie Piper.
It is a meaty role that requires an actor with ample reserves of physical and emotional strength, Lan said. There have been acclaimed performances in the role over the years, including Michael Gambon in 1980 at the National Theatre.
On Wednesday, Lan announced a 2017 season that will include the return of Yerma for about 20 performances in July and August.
After that will be a production of a Wings by Arthur Kopit, a 1978 American play that is little known in the UK. It tells the story of Emily, a former aviator and wing walker whose sense of reality is destroyed by a stroke. It will star Juliet Stevenson and be directed by Natalie Abrahami, a reunion after their work together on Samuel Beckett’s Happy Days at the Young Vic in 2014.
Other productions include the London staging of Ramin Gray and David Greig’s The Suppliant Women, which has been seen in Edinburgh, Newcastle and Belfast.
In the Young Vic’s Maria studio, productions will include Taha, telling the story of the Palestinian poet Taha Muhammad Ali; and Nina – A Story About Me and Nina Simone by Josette Bushell-Mingo.
Set against the prospect of Shah Rukh Khan playing a mobster in this weekend’s other major Hindi release, Raees, this teeth-grinding, mouth-foaming melodrama is destined to appear Bollywood trad, proceeding from the kind of innately preposterous premise a screenwriter might have tried to get away with 20 years ago. Here – no word of a lie – is the story of a blind dubbing artist (honey-eyed pin-up Hrithik Roshan) who embarks on a kill-crazy rampage after his equally sightless beloved is driven to self-sacrifice by well-connected thugs. It’s not good, exactly, but I can’t say it’s not watchable on some far-out level.
Sanjay Gupta, the crime specialist who directed the Hindi redo of Reservoir Dogs (2002’s Kaante), eventually embraces the full absurdity of this setup. Yes, our hero will use his voice-throwing skills to wrongfoot his nemeses, and yes, somebody points out how “an eye for an eye” might mean something else to the visually impaired. Elsewhere, Gupta is having an off day: a disastrous first act bottoms out with a beyond kitsch wedding night sequence (“I can’t see, but I can feel”), and the sappiness trickles into the vendetta business, as dreamboat Roshan fumbles for wifey’s ghost between slayings. Several punches land not with thuds but damp splats.
Stumbling around during their, let’s say, uniquely choreographed dance numbers, the leads at least make a handsome couple – more handsome than the film, with its flimsy-looking rear projection and smeary digital inserts. Yet Yami Gautam has only to play damsel in extreme distress, and Gupta’s glib touting of rape as a plot point impedes any guilty pleasure. Holding his own in the final, ludicrous smackdown atop a half-completed skyscraper, his billowing bouffant more than ever resembling a tribute to Faith-era George Michael, Roshan doesn’t look to have aged a day since the millennium. It’s the industry that has moved on, that’s all.
The whereabouts of modern protest music has been questioned so frequently that it has spawned its own Tumblr, a glorious repository for all the articles wondering whether political music still exists, whether Donald Trump’s America can expect a punk renaissance, whether the real protest musicians are now more commonly found in hip-hop and grime than in the guitar-led music of yesteryear, and whether we will ever again revel in a politically charged music scene to rival the glory days of Red Wedge and Rock Against Racism.
At the risk of joining those articles, I note that in the days since the US election, we have seen a resurgence of musical protest, both direct and indirect. Fiona Apple’s mesmerising anti-Trump track Tiny Hands is a minute-long incantation of the lines “We don’t want your tiny hands / Anywhere near our underpants”, while Arcade Fire and Mavis Staples’ song I Give You Power is a spirited show of unity, with proceeds donated to the American Civil Liberties Union. And a benefit concert held after the Women’s March in Washington, DC featured performances from Sleater-Kinney, the National, Dirty Projectors and others.
Last week also saw the launch of Michelberger Music, an online musical hub which, if not overtly political, is certainly fired by a sense of rebellion, with musicians such as Bon Iver, Aaron and Bryce Dessner, Fionn Regan, Lisa Hannigan and Stargaze coming together to collaborate, play and present music in a way that is commercial-free and artist-led. At a time of fracture and disarray, it is a show of musical togetherness.
Among the most ambitious projects to have arisen since the election of Trump is Secretly Group’s Our First 100 Days, unveiled last week. The Secretly Group – a collection of independent American labels including Secretly Canadian, Jagjaguwar, Numero Group and Dead Oceans – will release one previously unreleased song a day for the first 100 days of Trump’s presidency, to “inspire progress and benefit a cause for change”. Artists involved include Angel Olsen, Whitney, Will Oldham, Jens Lekman, Strand of Oaks, Torres, Mountain Goats, Sam Amidon, Wild Nothing, Courtney Marie Andrews, Nap Eyes and many more.
In partnership with 30 Days, 30 Songs and Revolutions Per Minute, Secretly will sell the songs in a subscription format, via Bandcamp, for a minimum contribution of $30. Though the tracks themselves may not necessarily be political in content, all profits will benefit organisations that stand in opposition to the Trump presidency: All Above All, Cosecha, Hoosier Action, People’s Climate Movement, and Southerners On New Ground.
The idea began in November, a couple of days after the election, explains Jon Coombs, general manager of Secretly Publishing. “If there was one silver lining that came [out of the election], it was the way the music industry started putting their tools to work,” he remembers. “And so I looked at what we had, and I thought: we can do some good work here.”
What they had, Coombs realised, was a treasure trove of previously unreleased music, and access to artists who might be willing to contribute. “We came up with a wishlist,” says Phil Waldorf, co-founder of Secretly Group. “People are careful about what music they put out into the world, and we didn’t get yeses from everyone, but we got a lot.” “And it was amazing how quickly people responded,” Coombs adds, “no conversations needed.”
Among the many gems is a Bill Fay song that Waldorf was particularly happy to bring into the light. “It was my favourite demo and they just couldn’t finish it in the studio,” he says. Fay, already an established activist, was more than happy to finish it for the project. Next up is the release of Group Transport Hall (Alternative Version), a track by the band Women.
Coombs was particularly inspired by the work of the 30 Days, 30 Songs project, which was founded by the writer Dave Eggers and artist manager Jordan Kurland in the month before the election to release songs written and recorded “for an inclusive, compassionate and just America”. Post-election, the initial ambition of releasing 30 songs has been extended to a whopping 1,000 songs in 1,000 days, with the aim of helping people through the four years of Trump’s presidency.
Secretly’s other partner is with the nonprofit organisation Revolutions Per Minute, which provides artists with support and structure for philanthropy. “From my vantage point, I want to raise as much money as we possibly can for these organisations,” Coombs says. “And I want to be careful that we don’t turn this into a project that is self-serving.” Suggestions that the Secretly Group turns the project into a physical album or hold a benefit concert would necessitate overheads that would mean less money for the charitable causes. “Though we are considering a limited edition merchandise component with artists who perhaps couldn’t contribute a song,” Coombs says.
The beneficiaries include “smaller charities doing amazing work but who are maybe in the shadow of larger organisations”, Coombs says. Among them are Cosecha, which works to support America’s 11 million non-documented immigrants, Southerners on New Ground, which campaigns for LGBT liberation in the southern states, and All Above All, which combats restrictions on access to abortion.
“I can’t express enough gratitude for everyone who’s thrown in for this,” says Waldorf. “The thing we are trying to show here is how, with a simple gesture, people can achieve a lot for a broad cross section of people.” It also provides, he hopes, a glimmer of possibility in a dark, dark time. “It’s going to be a challenging four years,” he says. “I hope our version of the world isn’t the alternative version. Trump didn’t win more votes. And I think we are speaking for a lot of people. What is happening is you’re finding a new-found generosity that people always had capacity for, but now there is an urgency.”
•Order the 100 Songs for 100 Days compilation at ourfirst100days.us.
John Beckett was a loving father who dreamed of sending his son Francis to a top public school. The family didn’t always have money, but he took pains to furnish his son with the sort of patriotic books considered improving for a boy in 1950s Britain: Kipling, Chesterton, Belloc, Waugh. Yet he also, without comment, once gave his son a copy of Mein Kampf. He could recite the music hall lyrics of his childhood and shared the casual racism of his white middle-class neighbours, but he was also prone to more sustained outbursts; the young Francis grew up “certain, in some way that I cannot now pin down, that the Jews falsely pretended they had been persecuted in Nazi Germany”. Once, when Francis was young, the family left their house to find “Fascists Go Home” painted on the wall opposite.
As Beckett recounts in his biography of his father, these were the twilight years of a man who had begun his career as a talented young Labour MP before he became a leading member of the British Union of Fascists. He was interned during the second world war and kept under surveillance by MI5 for the rest of his life, which his son believes contributed to his mental decline. Even so, it was a gentler fate than that of his close colleague in the BUF, William Joyce, who was convicted of treason in 1945 for his part in the “Lord Haw-Haw” propaganda broadcasts from wartime Berlin and hanged at Wandsworth prison the following year.
Joyce’s story is retold in Searching for Lord Haw-Haw by Colin Holmes; the two books are part of a wider series of historical studies of the far right. They help make the case that far from the 1930s being, as Holmes puts it, “a small tear on the smooth fabric of British politics”, there exists a home‑grown fascist tradition that is shaped by and informs the wider political currents around it. They also wrest control of memory away from the apologists and sympathisers who would have you believe that British fascism was never as extreme as its European counterparts.
Holmes dispels such myths with a thorough account of Joyce’s life and ideas. Raised in Ireland by fiercely unionist parents, as a teenager he worked for the Royal Irish Constabulary’s auxiliary division, formed to help the British state in its attempt to crush the IRA. As a young man in London, he drifted – rejected from the army, medical school and the Foreign Office – until he found a home in the nascent fascist movement. There, his racist, nationalist and anti-leftwing views were nurtured by upper-class reactionaries, including some Conservatives.
In 1932, Joyce joined the BUF and became its director of propaganda. He worked closely with Oswald Mosley during the movement’s expansion among the middle classes, when the newspaper baron Lord Rothermere openly flirted with supporting the cause, and through its attempt to recruit working-class followers that ended in defeat by anti-fascists at the celebrated “battle of Cable Street”. Sacked by Mosley in 1937, he formed the pro-Hitler National Socialist League. In the summer of 1939, just before war was declared, he left for Berlin via contacts he had cultivated in the years before.
Holmes shows how antisemitism was an important part of the BUF’s ideology from the outset and that Joyce played a particularly toxic role in pushing it to further extremes, as well as providing a key link between the regime in Berlin and its sympathisers in Britain. He tries a little too hard to conjure a sense of mystery about Joyce’s life, and I’m not sure there needs to be a grand psychological explanation for why he held the views he did. White British superiority was the official ideology of empire, while antisemitism and a contempt for democracy – even admiration for Hitler – were ideas that circulated within interwar Britain. A society that contains such ideas will also contain people who act on them.
At a time when nationalism is on the rise, both books show us fascism was never simply something to be fought abroad
John Beckett’s story provides a more perplexing tale, and his son portrays an easily distracted man, driven by a strong sense of injustice but impatient with the compromises of social democratic politics. From an upbringing of “lower middle class jingoism” in Edwardian west London, he was radicalised by the first world war and formed the National Union of Ex-Servicemen, a leftwing campaign group that worried the government so much it founded the British Legion as a way to dampen the subversive potential of demobbed soldiers. Encouraged into Labour by Ramsay MacDonald, he showed a flair for political rhetoric, as well as a taste for confrontation, and was elected to parliament in 1924.
Francis Beckett is the biographer of several former Labour leaders and he vividly charts how his father’s shortcomings, combined with the twists and turns of the interwar left, led him towards fascism. He campaigned against war profiteers (one of whom, a Liberal MP, happened to be Jewish) before falling out with the Labour leadership and becoming a leading leftwing rebel, later re-emerging as a member of the BUF in 1934. There, he edited the party’s newspapers until he too fell out with Mosley and followed Joyce into the National Socialist League. As war with Germany unfolded, Beckett campaigned for “peace” via a network of Anglo‑German friendship associations that were largely a pro-Nazi front, but also included some communists and pacifists – until his work was cut short in 1940 when the Churchill government rounded up more than 700 fascists as the threat of German invasion loomed.
Throughout his account Beckett is at pains to show how these decisions depended to some degree on circumstance (his father may have been doubly motivated to join the BUF because a failed theatre venture had rendered him bankrupt and Mosley offered a salary), while remaining clear about John Beckett’s failings. He may have been a socialist, but only in strictly nationalist terms; his antisemitism may have been based on resentment of “Jewish” financial control but he was happy to work with the likes of Joyce. There’s a further twist here: long after his father died, Beckett discovered that his mother had been Jewish, cut off by her orthodox family for marrying out – something concealed for the duration of their marriage. You can sense Beckett wrestling with this paradox throughout the book, and near its end he tells us it’s the one thing he wishes he could ask his father about.
One reason for writing this book, Beckett says, is because the second world war is starting to slip from living memory and the lessons bear repeating for a younger generation. At a time when patriotism, nationalism and white resentment are at the forefront of the political conversation in the UK, both these histories offer a reminder that fascism was never simply something to be fought abroad, but to be confronted on British shores. Destructive nationalist movements will take new forms, not directly comparable to those of the past. But the jump from “take back control” to “enemies of the people” to “death to traitors, freedom for Britain” is perhaps not as large as we would like to believe.
• Daniel Trilling’s Bloody Nasty People: The Rise of Britain’s Far Right is published by Verso. Fascist in the Family: The Tragedy of John Beckett MP and Searching for Lord Haw-Haw: The Political Lives of William Joyce are both published by Routledge. To order copies for for £16.99 or £14.99 respectively go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
If you thought 2016 was tough in the real world, the Marvel universe fared a little better. The all-encompassing Civil War II storyline infected a whole raft of comics, pitting hero against hero in an ideological bust-up that really felt like it could have been sorted out over a nice cup of tea. Now the dust has settled, two top-billed Avengers are dead and Tony Stark is in a coma. But with its first new comic launch of 2017, Marvel has delivered something surprisingly optimistic and upbeat.
Issue one of The Unstoppable Wasp stars Nadia Pym, the recently revealed secret daughter of original Ant-Man Hank Pym. Born and raised in the Red Room – the brutal Russian assassination school that counts Black Widow among its alumni – hardy Nadia has flown the coop on hi-tech insectoid wings and pitched up in the US. Despite her joyless upbringing, this latest hero to adopt the Wasp name has an innate sunniness that helps her disarm an overworked immigration official trying to ascertain her citizenship status just as easily as she would a villainess on a giant robot rampage. When not engaging in freelance superheroics, Nadia is also enthusiastically diving into western culture. The Unstoppable Wasp reads like a smart, appealing riff on Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, the sitcom in which a cult survivor essentially uses positivity as a superpower.
Writer Jeremy Whitley crams this first issue with witty pop-culture shoutouts and smartly potted backstory, but what really elevates it is the art by Elsa Charretier. While more stylised than the usual depictions of Marvel’s New York, Charretier’s bouncier, exaggerated style enhances the playful tone, suggesting her future will be as bright as Nadia’s outlook.
The currently thriving Marvel omni-empire simply wouldn’t exist if it wasn’t for artistic godhead Jack “The King” Kirby. In an absurdly short time in the 1960s, Kirby and Stan Lee dreamed up the Fantastic Four, Iron Man, Hulk, the X-Men, Black Panther and countless other action-figure staples (including, in 1963, the original Wasp). After his relationship with Lee curdled, Kirby moved to arch-rivals DC and, while his 1970s creations such as the New Gods and OMAC may not have quite the same cultural heft as his Marvel imperial phase, his career over at what Lee called “the Distinguished Competition” is still viewed as some of his purest and most mind-blowing work.
The King would have turned 100 in 2017, and DC is marking that anniversary with The Kamandi Challenge, an ambitious year-long experiment in pass-the-parcel, hot-potato-style storytelling. Kamandi, The Last Boy On Earth was Kirby’s 1970s mash-up of Tarzan and Planet Of The Apes, centred on a lonely but plucky kid being hunted by hyper-evolved animals in the shattered ruins of Earth AD (“After Disaster”). Every issue will be created by a different writer and artist, and while there is a skeleton outline that dictates where each monthly chapter should begin and end – Earth AD is a big place – each team otherwise enjoys the same creative freedom Kirby had: they can tell any Kamandi story they want. The roster of talent includes current Batman writer Tom King collaborating with Ninja Turtles creator Kevin Eastman and rising UK-based writer Rob Williams working with 70-year-old Walt Simonson, the revered artist who drew Thor at his mightiest. This month’s bumper opening issue kicks things off with an extra prologue chapter (written by DC co-publisher Dan DiDio) that features a cyborg cameo from Kirby himself. If the Kamandi Challenge feels like a high-wire experiment almost as likely to end in heroic failure as success, it at least seems in keeping with The King’s vaulting visions.
How should comics respond to real-life tragedy? The idea behind Love Is Love was conceived by comics writer Marc Andreyko in the immediate aftermath of the mass shooting at Orlando’s LGBT-friendly Pulse nightclub on 12 June last year, an atrocity that left 49 dead and dozens more injured. The Love Is Love anthology brings together short, predominantly single-page contributions volunteered by more than 100 artists, writers, letterers, colourists and editors from across the industry (as well as celebrity comics fans such as comedian Patton Oswalt, film-maker Morgan Spurlock and Magic Mike star Matt Bomer). It was a digital bestseller over Christmas and is now available as a 144-page physical edition, with all proceeds going to survivors of the shooting via Equality Florida. Collecting so many heartfelt artistic responses to a senseless tragedy can’t help but feel piecemeal, raw and a little chaotic. But the cumulative effect is very moving, and makes a persuasive case for spiritual optimism.
Poetry makes nothing happen, Auden wrote. It does, however, provide an excellent excuse for a late-January bacchanal. The annual Burns Night supper, marking the birth of Scotland’s national poet, reprises the excesses of Christmas and New Year’s Eve, with a ritualistic meal, strong drink and verse recitat-ions standing in for carols.
Accessorised in tartan, in pubs, clubs and private homes throughout the UK, revellers raise glasses to the immortal memory, musically recall “Auld Lang Syne” and, in robust rhyming Scots vernacular, praise haggis then spear, eviscerate and serve it. The rite, with optional ceilidh dancing, is observed from Abu Dhabi to Hawaii, Singapore to Moscow, as well the more obviously diasporic regions of Canada, New Zealand and America (although haggis is currently banned in the Land of the Free).
Some native Scots, however, are sceptical about the tradition, and Scottish scepticism, forged in the birthplace of David Hume, has a particularly abrasive quality. One of the most high-profile dissenters from Burnsian orthodoxy was Scotland’s other national poet, Hugh MacDiarmid, who, in 1926, in his most celebrated poem, “A Drunk Man Looks at the Thistle”, wrote of the Ayrshire bard: “Mair nonsense has been uttered in his name/ Than in ony’s barrin liberty and Christ.” MacDiarmid attacked the Burns cult for its reactionary kitsch and “kailyard” sentimentality: “You canna gang to a Burns supper even/ Wi-oot some wizened scrunt o a knock-knee/ Chinee turns roon to say, ‘Him Haggis – velly goot!’ /And ten to wan the piper is a Cockney.”
Burns had his “shortcomings” – MacDiarmid, perversely, singled out “a tendency to jeer at foreign things and express a sort of xenophobia”. But it was the “church of Burns”, not the poet himself, who earned MacDiarmid’s true ire: “Croose London Scotties wi their braw shirt fronts/ And aa their fancy freens rejoicin/ That similah gatherings in Timbuctoo/ Bagdad – and Hell, nae doot – are voicin/ Burns’ sentiments o universal love,/ In pidgin English or in wild-fowl Scots”. The devotees didn’t even understand his language, argued MacDiarmid: “No wan in fifty kens a wurd Burns wrote.”
If the English were baffled by his Scots poetry, so much the better
The same could, of course, be said about MacDiarmid’s own Scots verse, but for this fierce contrarian, who never claimed the easy charm of his predecessor, accessibility or popularity was not the aim. If the English were baffled by his Scots poetry, so much the better. This was an unsurprising stance from someone who, in his Who’s Who entry, described his hobby as “Anglophobia”. MacDiarmid took pride in contradiction – “Caledonian antisyzygy” he called it – and had the unique distinction of being expelled from the National Party of Scotland, forerunner of the SNP, for being a communist and from the Communist party for being a nationalist. In 1956, after the Soviet invasion of Hungary, when thousands of British communists left the CP in protest, MacDiarmid rushed to rejoin the party.
He scorned the vulgarity of the common man and was contemptuous of Scottish culture: “The horde of Burns imitators have … reduced Scots poetry to an abyss of worthless rubbish unparalleled in any other European literature.” In 1922, he predicted that the majority of Scottish writers would choose to write in English because “the English language is an immensely superior medium of expression”. The following year he published two poems in Scots and declared: “The Scots vernacular is a vast storehouse of just the very peculiar and subtle effects which modern European literature in general is assiduously seeking … It is an inchoate Marcel Proust – a Dostoevskian debris of ideas – an inexhaustable quarry of subtle and significant sound.” Within three years he had written his vernacular Scots masterpiece, “A Drunk Man Looks at the Thistle”.
The debate over Scots – language or dialect, depending on which side of the argument you stand – flared up again earlier this month in the incongruous setting of the nursery when Jackie Kay, Scotland’s makar, or official national poet, supplied a tender verse, “Welcome Wee One”, to be included in the box of essential equipment provided by the Scottish government to mark the birth of every baby. If it had been a bawdy verse by Catullus or Rochester, it couldn’t have attracted more outrage.
In a first, the debate over Scots vernacular poetry trended on Twitter
Insults were hurled across the linguistic divide on Mumsnet in full Medean mode, raged through the pages and websites of national newspapers and – a first – the debate over Scots vernacular poetry trended on Twitter. The poem was a William McGonagall mashup, written in the language of The Broons (the Sunday Post cartoon), a phony hybrid of incompatible dialects, like a confected amalgam of cockney, scouse and geordie, without standard spelling or orthography. To suggest that Scots is a cohesive language is a political move, it was argued, designed to reinforce an independent Scottish identity. The poem was just as hotly defended by those who maintained that to deny the validity, and the music, of the language was to adopt the unappealing position of “Scottish cringe” – a collective cowering before the imagined cultural superiority of the southern neighbour.
Even among these warring factions, though, there is consensus on the importance of Burns and MacDiarmid. One hundred miles and 133 years separated the births of the two poets: Burns in Alloway, Ayrshire, in 1759, half a century after the Act of Union brought Scotland under English rule and two decades after the failed rebellion against the Union; MacDiarmid in the Borders town of Langholm in 1892, at a time when dreams of Scottish independence had been long buried.
Burns wrote his most famous verse in Scots, drawn from the local language and traditional ballads he collected on journeys around the country as a working farmer and exciseman. For MacDiarmid, growing up at the turn of the 20th century, six miles from the border with the auld enemy, language was a more contested issue. He came to write his verse in an argot he proudly called synthetic Scots, using old dictionaries and poetry to draw on Scottish words, ancient and modern, from the country’s rich, lyrical “braid Scots” dialects, from the Lallans of the south-west and central belt, the Doric of the north-east, and the insular dialects of Orkney and Shetland. Gaelic, the old Celtic tongue with no linguistic relation to English, had been repressed and banished to the country’s western fringes.
Reviving Old Scots and fusing it with lively local idiom was, to this most ideological of poets, a political act
Reviving Old Scots, which shared roots with the Anglo-Danish of northern England, and fusing it with lively local idiom – the informal language of home, street and playground, banned, like Gaelic, in the classroom – was, to this most ideological of poets, a political act, a defiant reclamation. To his enemies, in Scotland as well as England, the stylised literary language was as fabricated as his name – he was born Christopher Murray Grieve but adopted Hugh MacDiarmid as a nom de guerre.
He was always a good hater and would have been a skilled practitioner of the medieval Scots tradition of poetic flyting – the trading of literary insults – but he was good at friendship too. In the 1950s and 1960s, he was the centre of a circle of poets, writers and critics who met regularly in the pubs and howfs of Edinburgh’s Rose Street. Milne’s Bar was a favourite venue and the smoke-filled corner where they regularly gathered became known as Little Kremlin. The group was more than a tight literary milieu, a Bloomsbury of the north, with whisky and incidental bagpipe music; it was the core of what would become known as the modern Scottish renaissance, kindling a cultural confidence that inspired the revived independence movement.
A painting in the Scottish National Portrait Gallery – Poets’ Pub by Alexander Moffat – conjures one Rose Street salon. MacDiarmid is the picture’s heart, a centrifugal force in cobalt suit and red scarf, with his terrier features, military moustache and pelt of white hair suggesting a Caledonian Einstein. In front of him, leaning in to hear the master’s voice, is Sydney Goodsir Smith, who overcame the handicaps of birth in New Zealand, English public school and an Oxford education to become one of the foremost poets of Lallans. Sitting at a separate table behind him is Robert Garioch, another champion of Lallans, whose life’s work was to translate Italian verse into braid Scots. Wearing a pale suit and a wary look is the Glasgow poet Edwin Morgan, who was to become the first official Scots makar in 2004. The Orcadian poet and novelist George Mackay Brown, with pint and cigarette, listens intently to MacDiarmid, while behind him huddle the great Gaelic poets of the last century, Iain Crichton Smith and, looming above him, Sorley Maclean. Standing louchely at MacDiarmid’s right, gazing into the middle distance with what could be mild Scottish scepticism, is Norman MacCaig, thought by some to have been the true genius of the group. His elegant, spare verse was written in English and he once described the literary Scots language as “a queer marriage between the dead and the dying”. Somehow, his friendship with MacDiarmid survived.
When I began to write my new novel, Hame, featuring a fictional Lallans poet and member of MacDiarmid’s circle, this painting became a talisman, evoking a vanished masculine world – before feminism, Perrier water and smoking bans – in which writers, all men, heroically drunk, could come to blows in fume-filled rooms over a dud line or dodgy syntax. The background figure of a falling soldier, taken from Robert Capa’s famous Spanish civil war photograph, represents the political engagement of the group, but I became intrigued by the women in the picture. One dark-haired beauty lolls woozily at the bar, her long legs sheathed in red; another stands outside in the shadows by the door, a streetwalker perhaps, or a girlfriend waiting for her lover to finish his drink and come home; a red-headed girl is lost in an embrace with a red-headed boy. The fourth woman springs straight from Delacroix, a bare-breasted revolutionary Marianne, clenching her fist and waving the lion rampant flag of Scotland.
The women are not identified in captions but it has been suggested that at least one of them, possibly the Marianne figure, is based on an honorary female member of the Rose Street group. Stella Cartwright first walked into Milne’s Bar as a vivacious 16-year-old with a passion for poetry. Known as the Muse of Rose Street, she inspired many lines of verse, had affairs with several of the poets, provoked a few fights and was engaged for a while to shy, gentle Mackay Brown. But she subsequently became an alcoholic, sold her love letters from the Rose Street poets to pay for drink and died almost destitute. In Moffat’s picture we can see her in her glory days, the muse ablaze, calling the men to action. The poets ignore her – as they do all the women in the picture – for they are engaged in the real work of prosody and politics.
The irony is that by the time the Rose Street poets were meeting regularly, MacDiarmid had abandoned Scots for his verse
What would the Rose Street group have made of the current debate, in which the key figures championing the Scots language are women: makar Jackie Kay and first minister Nicola Sturgeon? And would MacDiarmid exult in the fact that Scots is now recognised as an official language? On the Scottish Parliament’s website (or “wabsite”), constituents are invited to submit questions to their MSPs in Scots: “We wad like tae mak shair that as mony fowk as possible can get tae speir aboot the Scots Pairlament.” The Scots Language Centre, or Centre for the Scots Leid, reports that “Education Scotland haes appyntit [appointed] Scots leed [language] coordinators for tae help mak siccar [secure] that Scots leed teachers is weel fendit [funded] an that Scots is upbiggen [developed] athort [across] the curriculum as appropriate.”
The irony is that by the time the Rose Street poets were meeting regularly, MacDiarmid – the inspiration for the new vernacular movement – had quietly abandoned Scots as a vehicle for his verse, reaching instead for a recondite technological language, a new synthetic and, some critics argued, even more wilfully obscure, English. But his remarkable Scots verse of the 20s and early 30s had lit a fuse and it’s clear that in Scotland, as another Burns Night approaches, the battle over language and identity continues. Or, as my fictional Lallans poet might say, “the stramash gangs oan.”
• Hame, by Annalena McAfee, is published by Harvill Secker on 9 February. To order a copy for £14.44 (RRP £16.99 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
Police mugshots are among the most familiar and revealing of portraits, celebrated internationally in art galleries and coffee table books. But what about less stark images of criminals? This month sees an exhibition of portrayals of British gangsters past and present, painted by a young artist whose aim is to capture the likenesses of some of our most notorious criminals for posterity.
“Mad” Frankie Fraser, Charlie and Eddie Richardson, Chris and Tony Lambrianou of the Krays’ gang, Freddie Foreman, Bert “Battles” Rossi, Roy “Pretty Boy” Shaw and Linda Calvey, jailed for killing her lover, are among those included in an exhibition that represents a year of work by Cambridgeshire-based painter Charles Delafeld. Many of that crew not already in the great holding cell in the skies will be attending the event at the Arts Theatre Club in Soho, London, itself once an illegal drinking den.
Delafeld, 29, says his interest in portraiture was prompted by a school trip to Florence. “At the age of 16, I just wanted to be Caravaggio!” he says over a mocha in a Cambridge cafe. His mother was a chef who liked to paint, his stepfather a taxidermist. Delafeld had wanted to go to art school but “went off the rails a bit” when his mother died while he was still at school.
After a brief career selling Cambridge university goods, he started painting portraits professionally from photos. One of his first works was of the former archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams: “He looks like what he is – he could be a Renaissance painting.” His move to the sinners’ end of society started when he painted Steve Tully, a Kray twins protege, and his work was last year used as the cover of Dodger, Tully’s memoir.
This led to interest from elsewhere in the underworld and he next painted a 94-year-old “Battles” Rossi, a key figure in 1950s gangland London whose memoirs come out this year. “I wanted to do portraits of an era that was fast disappearing,” says Delafeld. He has now created images of more than 20 such figures, leading to the Gangland Art exhibition.
There is a long history of overlap between British art and crime, which reached its apotheosis in the 1960s. Francis Bacon and Ronnie Kray hung out together not least because the Kray twins ran the gaming club Esmeralda’s Barn, where Bacon ran up hefty debts; he cancelled one exhibition because he did not want the Krays to realise quite how much he was making from his work.
Ronnie, who fancied himself as an artist, later corresponded with Bacon from Broadmoor; a brief letter from the artist, sent in 1989, fetched £7,400 at auction 20 years later. Bacon’s muse and partner was petty crook George Dyer. And the scar-faced gentleman in Lucian Freud’s 1964 portrait, A Man and His Daughter, was later described by the artist as being of “a very clever bank robber”.
Chris Lambrianou approves of his portrait by Delafeld. Now 78, he was jailed for 15 years for disposing of the body of Jack “the Hat” McVitie but found God in prison and on release worked with the Ley Community in Oxfordshire, a rehab centre that helps addicts, some referred from prison. He is wary of glorifying old gangsters – “the Krays were not legends but losers” – but will be attending the exhibition and thinks Delafeld has caught his likeness,using a photo taken at the funeral of “Mad” Frankie Fraser.
“I think the painting is quite realistic,” says Lambrianou. “It captures the moment: reflective and sad, the end of a journey, the parting of ways.” He is relaxed about being part of a rogues’ gallery. “I see my picture all over the internet, sometimes with a machine gun added. You can’t do anything about it. It’s today’s world.”
He remembers Bacon from the Kray years: “He seemed like a decent chap to me – but then everyone seemed like a decent chap in front of the twins.” Most of Delafeld’s portraits are, inevitably, of men but there will be a couple of women. One is Linda Calvey, who spent 18 years in jail for the murder of her lover, Ronnie Cook, in 1990 and is routinely described by the tabloid press as “the Black Widow – because all her men end up dead or in jail”.
Her first husband, Mickey Calvey, was shot dead by police during an attempted robbery in 1978. Calvey was accused of paying Daniel Reece £10,000 to kill Cook, although it was claimed in court that she finished off the job. She later married and divorced Reece in jail and still denies the murder.
Delafeld has also painted Harry Roberts, who shot dead three police officers in 1966, although that picture will not be appearing in the exhibition. So what about the morality of immortalising or glorifying men who have carried out murder? “I don’t agree with putting them on a pedestal and I don’t condone what they have done,” he says. “But they are still a piece of history.” What if, say, Peter Sutcliffe, “the Yorkshire Ripper”, asked to be commemorated. “No, I wouldn’t do that.”
Of other faces Delafeld would like to commemorate, the late Howard Marks, often described as Britain’s best-loved drug smuggler, is top of the list. After that, he says, he wants to shift to the other side of the law and paint judges. He says the link between art and crime is strong in numerous ways. “For instance, The Scream has been stolen a number of times.” Thieves briefly took Edvard Munch’s famous picture from its Norwegian gallery home in 1994, and again for two years in 2004.
He admires the work of David Henty, who was jailed for forging passports. He turned to art in prison and now describes himself as a “fine art copyist”, reproducing convincing duplicates of work by everyone from Modigliani to Van Gogh.
Not that Delafeld is the only person to have put faces to the underworld. Nick Reynolds, the son of the late great train robber Bruce, is both an artist and a musician (a member of the Alabama 3, who created the Sopranos theme tune Woke Up This Morning). He made a death mask of John Joe Amador, who was executed in Texas in 2007 and a “life mask” of his late father, which is now in Highgate cemetery. His subjects have also included Frankie Fraser, Roy Shaw, Tony Lambrianou, Howard Marks and cat burglar Peter Scott – whose last conviction was for involvement in stealing Picasso’s Tete du Femme – which he has shown in an exhibition called Cons to Icons.
But Reynolds thinks this may be a dying art. “Thanks to the cod science of phrenology in the 19th century,” he says, “it became commonplace to cast the heads of executed criminals to see if criminal traits could be observed in features and skull shapes. Notable cases include the infamous bushwhacker Ned Kelly. With the debunking of phrenology, the practice declined and the masks became macabre curios. Nowadays most people prefer not to dwell too much on their mortality, and reminders of death have fallen out of fashion.”
There is also a declining number of criminals who would like to be commemorated for other reasons. As David Bailey has said of his famous photo of the Kray twins: “Their big mistake was posing for me. If you’re a real gangster, nobody knows who you are.”
Time-sadist Giles Coren is at it again: drop-kicking people – mostly the Robshaw family – into the past and watching them clamber slowly and uncomfortably back again. They make it back to the 21st century, get back to some Snapchat and sushi, then Giles boots them back to the past. Now, with Further Back in Time for Dinner (BBC 2), he’s firing the Robshaws all the way to 1900.
It’s not all bad in 1900. They’re middle class, with aspirations. Brandon Robshaw has a clerical job. The kitchen of their house in Tooting, south London, is lovely, with a lot of wood and iron about the place and a flagstone floor; I think people would spend a lot of money getting that kind of look today.
No fridge, but they do have this appliance of the day called a maid. These brilliant inventions are actual human beings – small, working-class girls from the north – who live in your house and work their arses off from 6am to 10pm, boiling suet puddings and mangling the laundry, while you sit about in the parlour getting on with the serious business of worrying about your social standing (the late Victorian equivalent of anxiety about how many Twitter followers you have).
There is even a bell to summon the maid when you need her. Isn’t that brilliant, I don’t understand why they went out of fashion; could they not have at least waited until they had invented proper robot servants, like the ones in Humans?
The Robshaws are initially unsure about their servant, 19-year-old Debbie from Yorkshire. “I’m going to find it a bit awkward, I think,” says Brandon. But it’s the nature of the class system, explains Giles, who might know a thing or two about that. “If you haven’t got someone below you, how do you know where you are?”
Mrs Robshaw – Rochelle – is also initially uncomfortable and apologetic about the Debbie situation. She wants to ring the bell to summon Debbie to ask if she minds being summoned by the bell. But they all soon get the hang of it, get bell-happy, even. “I’ve got some rather exciting news,” Rochelle tells Debbie. Debbie needs to prepare an eight-course dinner party, which they will be hosting. Tonight. “What hangs on this meal is Mr Robshaw’s reputation,” Rochelle says. “I think I’ll let you get on with it.”
I do love the Robshaws; they’re nice, and normal, but also as brainy as the cervelle de veau that’s going into the chafing dish, and dead funny. “I’m a bit shocked to see it like that,” Rochelle says, of the cow’s head on the kitchen table, from which Debbie is picking the meat off to make mock turtle soup. “So, sort of, like, heady, in its head-like way. Do you think it’s going to be tasty, Debbie?”
And they throw themselves into it, game as the ragout of grouse. “I truly believe that our social standing in the neighbourhood has gone right up into the sky,” says Brandon, sounding like he means it and cares, after the eight-course dinner party, which has been a roaring success.
The kids are game, too – Miranda and Rosalind and young Fred who isn’t allowed to eat with his family. Interestingly, the kids speak posher than their parents – I think the Robshaws really are on the way up. Anyway, they’re all naturals; the reason BITFD is such good TV is down to them, not the format (which isn’t so different from Channel 4’s The 1900 House of 1999, if you see what I mean), or the hooked-on-classics soundtrack (a bit annoying) or Giles C.
They have an awkward tea party for the ladies of Tooting; Fred makes friends with Debbie (I wouldn’t encourage that, be more ambitious, lad, look upwards); Debbie is given a day off and treated to a jellied eel in the garden; the Robshaws have a sing-song with Chas ’n’ Dave (weren’t they from the 80s?). And they play a parlour game called Dress the Dandy. They put blindfolds on, Giles stands naked in the middle of the room, and they pin things to him ... Well, that’s how it should have gone. They missed a trick there.
Case (Channel 4, although after this first episode, it’s only on All 4) is another murder mystery from the land of Trapped, with all your favourite Icelandic actors, Whatchamadottir and Thingamysson. It’s summer, so it’s very light (Trapped was very dark), although only in terms of daylight hours, not spirit. Certainly, I don’t think anyone ever compared detective Gabriela (Steinunn Ólína Þorsteinsdóttir) to a ray of sunshine. She’s dourness personified, but she’s also dogged, and she’s not accepting that the death of a young ballerina found hanging in the national theatre was suicide. Bleak, obviously, and promising.
Dermot O’Leary again hosts the directly democratic gong show, from London’s O2 Arena. The programmes vying for votes include plenty of classy crowd-pleasers such as The Night Manager and Happy Valley, as well as the odd surprise (Orange is the New Black is up for best comedy). Meanwhile, can Gary Lineker’s online humanitarianism help the Match of the Day host prise the TV presenter award from the generally invincible Ant and Dec? Jack Seale
If you accept the show’s conceit that the discoveries about the ancestry of its stars are being made for the first time on camera, then this week’s edition, featuring Ian McKellen, is a treat. McKellen learns that he was not the first thespian in his family. His grandmother’s uncle, one Frank Lowes, trod the boards in the 19th century. This leads to a moving reenactment of scenes from a play in which Lowes starred in McKellen’s home town of Bolton. David Stubbs
Alexander Armstrong and Michael Scott explore Florence: cradle of the Italian Renaissance, home to the murderous Medici family and boasting a cathedral with an eye-catching dome (Armstrong: “I always imagine the most enormous half of lemon being squeezed on top of it”). Elsewhere, Scott catches a Calcio Fiorentino match – a somewhat “lively” sport combining elements of wrestling, rugby and football, but “about as close to football as, frankly, nuclear war”. Ali Catterall
Paul Abbott’s bawdy crime drama juggernaut rolls on and tensions are running high down at the Friday Street station. This week, there’s division between Dinah (Elaine Cassidy), Joy (Alexandra Roach) and the boss who you wouldn’t dare mess with, Deering (Joanna Scanlan). There’s suspicion that the Attahs might be colluding with one of the team, and there’s another case to crack when a dad reports his daughter missing and the search uncovers sinister online activity. Hannah Verdier
Two-part documentary about three women in prison, all of whom have been charged with murder. The cases of Ana Trujillo (who killed her boyfriend with a stiletto shoe), Amber Hilberling (who pushed her husband out of a window and later killed herself) and Patricia Ignacio (who beat her cousin to death with a piece of concrete) were all sensational US crimes of the past five years. Hopefully, this will probe a little beyond the lurid headlines. John Robinson
The key to any series about contract killers is to leave at least a little space for audience sympathy among the carnage. This measured but gripping deep-south drama has managed this very well so far: Mac’s recent PTSD-related trauma and his decision to take on Arthur’s debt have given us every reason to root for him. Tonight, he’s back on more comfortable ground as, amid escalating racial unrest, The Broker offers him a high-profile assignment. Phil Harrison
The Tyneside titter merchant invites another unwitting audience back to the bowels of his basement for a bucketful of banter. Guests joining the titular cellar-dweller tonight are Towie mainstay-turned-factual frontman Joey Essex and Almost Royal aristo-impersonator Ed Gamble. Expect the usual extravaganza of party games and curious challenges, including a physical train-based trial set by England rugby star James Haskell. Mark Gibbings-Jones
Stonehearst Asylum (Brad Anderson, 2014) 9pm, Film4Young doctor Edward (Jim Sturgess) arrives at the forbidding institution of the title, run by Ben Kingsley’s too-good-to-be-true Dr Lamb. Edward is attracted to vulnerable patient Eliza Graves (Kate Beckinsale), but what are Mickey Finn (David Thewlis) and his ruffians up to, and what the hell is going on in the basement? Michael Caine and Brendan Gleeson are vivid presences in Anderson’s entertaining Hammer-like horror. Paul Howlett
T20 Cricket: South Africa v Sri Lanka The final game in the three-match series between the sides. 3.55pm, Sky Sports 2
League Cup Football: Liverpool v Southampton Semi-final second leg. The Saints take a 1-0 lead to Anfield. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 1
Australian Open Tennis Coverage of the opening women’s singles semi-final on day 11 from Melbourne Park. 2.30am, Eurosport 1
I was 15 years old the day I cashed my first art cheque. It was for 30 bucks, which I earned playing the saxophone at a pierogi festival in a community centre up in the Yukon in 1984. It was the best 30 bucks I ever spent, way better than babysitting money or lawn-mowing dough. I knew even back then that I wanted to be a writer and a musician, and I am.
I make most of my living as a live performer. I do theatre gigs and writers festivals and high school shows and keynotes at conferences. I’m both lucky and hard working. I’ve published 11 books, and released three albums and four short films. I’m on the road about 200 days out of the calendar year now.
A little over a year ago I did a TED talk on the need for gender-neutral bathrooms, and due to a perfect storm of social media, backwards bathroom bills being passed in the US and the rising visibility of trans issues, that TED talk went viral. It has been viewed 1.5m times and was picked by the TED folks as one of the top 10 talks of 2016.
So now I’m the gender-neutral bathroom poster boygirl. The safe-place-to-pee girlyman.
Here’s just one example of how this plays out. Last August, I did an interview with Radio New Zealand. It was nationally broadcast and live on air in advance of a writers festival appearance later that month. The interviewer’s first question was about bathroom politics. So were their follow-up questions. My writing and performing didn’t come up in the conversation until eight minutes in – when I brought it up.
I know I’m supposed to be grateful that the mainstream media is paying attention to trans realities at all and thankful for the opportunity to address issues of import to my community – and, truly, part of me really is. But another part of me cringes every time this happens and I can hear the voice of my dear departed gran in my head, saying in her cockney accent: “What’s this now, on the radio for everyone to ’ear and there you go talking about baffrooms? Shame on you, who raised you up like that?”
Another part of me is frustrated that my artistic accomplishments and awards get put on the back burner by clickbait headlines and invasive questions that I then have to juggle and answer politely, or else I’m somehow the rude one. The defensive one. Another angry activist. You know the routine.
Except I never meant to be an activist. I only ever wanted to write good books and play the saxophone. To be an artist. But I’m a trans artist, so the expectation is that my art is also always meant to educate. Festivals like me because I can entertain and sell tickets, and they get to tick a box on their “not-a-straight-white-man” list. I’m regularly included in panel discussions on diversity. I’m programmed in events with titles like Writing From the Margins or Untold Stories or Speaking the Unspeakable.
But see, I’m not all that marginalised. My story is not unspeakable at all. I’m a white, able-bodied trans person who is viewed by most as being on the masculine end of the gender teeter totter, so in many ways I’m as close to being a straight white man as a not-straight not-man can be.
I recently read a fantastic interview with an indigenous writer in Canada named Jordan Abel, and he articulated so well, in the context of combating racism and colonisation, much of what I feel about being a reluctant educator with regards to transphobia. You should really read the whole article, he’s just so smart and articulate, but at one point he says: “I guess the question (at least for me) then becomes whether or not the reading/performance space is also an educational space. And further to that if the role of the performer is also the role of the educator.”
This really struck me – this whole idea of, what if? What if one day we all just got to answer intelligent and well-thought-out questions about our creative ideas, our art dreams, our new projects? What would I be free to write and talk about if I wasn’t always expected to change the world? What if I was just allowed to live and create in it?
What if the first question I was always asked about my writing was actually about my writing?
• Ivan Coyote’s Tomboy Survival Guide is playing at the Sydney festival’s Magic Mirrors Spiegeltent, 25 to 29 January
With a record-breaking 2,255,110 votes cast in this year’s poll, the Triple J Hottest 100 returns on 26 January – although whether or not that’s the right date for it depends on which side of the debate you’re on.
After his sweep of the Arias in November, Sydney’s Harley Streten – AKA Flume – has been tipped for the top spot, for his track Never Be Like You. But it’s neck and neck with Amy Shark – AKA “where did she come from?” – close behind. Or close in front, depending which side of the debate you’re on.
Shark isn’t the only name you may be hearing for the first time tomorrow. There are 23 artists making their Hottest 100 debut this year, with a final list that contains the most Australian songs in the countdown’s history.
With that in mind, here are crib notes on five Australian artists you may not know yet but will know soon.
Track: Adore
Crib notes: The out-of-left-field favourite to place in the top five this year – if not to take out the top spot itself – comes from 30-year-old newcomer Amy Shark (Amy Billings). The Gold Coast-based musician, film-maker and producer was added to the station’s rotation after uploading her songs to Triple J Unearthed last year. (This is the same way Flume was discovered by the station in 2011, with his upload Possum.)
Adore – a brooding ode to “crushing hard” – marries the sepia-teen angst of Lorde with the production of Flume. And in the clip, it’s served up with the approachable choreography, long hair and denim jacket #squadgoals that defined 2016.
Key lyrics: “I kick the gutter in tight shorts, basketball courts / Watch me watch him talk to girls.”
What’s next: An EP was tipped to be released in September 2016, but is yet to arrive.
Track: Jungle
Crib notes: This self-taught one-woman band from Melbourne came out of nowhere last year with her single Jungle, a soulful voice and a startling backstory. Sultana survived nine months of a drug-induced psychosis at just 17, finding her way back through music. Unable to get a job, she took to busking in Melbourne’s CBD, where she honed the art of live performance and loop pedals – but her big break came via YouTube.
“My mum got me a GoPro for Christmas and I was like well, I’m going to put it to use,” she told SBS. “It [Jungle] just got shared and shared and shared and I was like whoa, it was like 10,000 extra followers overnight and then it just kept happening and happening and happening.”
More than a million views later, Sultana followed it up with the EP, Notion, a J award, a standout performance at Woodford folk festival and tour dates around the world. She’s 21 years old.
Key lyrics: *long, jammy guitar loop*
What’s next: Selling out every leg of her upcoming US tour, and with tickets selling fast in Europe and New Zealand, a high Hottest 100 place won’t make or break Sultana at this point – but it certainly won’t hurt either.
Track: January 26
Crib notes: In August this year the new Indigenous hip-hop duo of Briggs and Trials – AKA AB Original – released January 26, “the first-ever rap track that disses a public holiday”. The song, which features Dan Sultan, galvanised a growing public movement against the date of Australia Day, which marks the 1788 arrival of the first fleet of British ships – a date also referred to as Invasion Day or Survival Day, and a national holiday which Guardian Australia believes should be changed.
With Triple J facing mounting pressure from listeners to change the date of its Hottest 100 broadcast as well, a Facebook campaign sprung up last year encouraging listeners to vote for January 26 in solidarity with the movement. Many of the votes it accrues will come thanks to the strength of the track itself – but it will be interesting to watch how far it climbs.
Key lyrics: “Fuck celebrating days made of misery, while Aus still got the black history / And that shirt will get you banned from the parliament, if you ain’t having a conversation, well then we starting it.”
What’s next: AB Original’s debut album, Reclaim Australia, was described by Guardian Australia as “a savage broadside at our national culture”, and the pair continue to bring it to Australian audiences with live dates in January and February.
Track: Because I Love You
Crib notes: The 21-year-old Sydney-based singer Jessica Cerro made a small splash in November when she won the Aria award for best breakthrough artist. She took the podium with a political message marked on to her chest (“People over profit”, which she told Guardian Australia was a reference to the New South Wales lockout laws), and delivered an acceptance speech that contained the line, “For the rest of my life I will probably eject at least three loads out of my butt every week.” OK then.
“I just panicked!” she told Triple J the next morning, making her even more fun and approachable than her track Because I Love You – an upbeat, singable homage to the “meh” relationships we’ve all endured.
Key lyrics: “We slide into your bed, and then I slide into you / We are two moving skins, I think, ‘This isn’t boring.’”
What’s next: If you love that track, take a listen to the reinvention she released on Wednesday with beatboxer Tom Thum. Montaigne’s debut album Glorious Heights is out now.
Track: Death to the Lads
Crib notes: A controversial entry for an “up-and-coming” list, the Smith Street Band have been long beloved by Melbourne’s music scene, who’d argue – loudly, and at length – that if you haven’t heard of this band yet you haven’t been listening in the right places. Led by punk poet Wil Wagner, they’ve had a slow and steady career since forming in 2010. Thanks in part to the strength of their live shows and Wagner’s hyper-literate lyricism, the fervency of their fanbase has never wavered.
This kind of stuff makes more sense in a dimly lit, damply carpeted pub basement than it does sandwiched between the slick, downtempo electropop now favoured by our national youth broadcaster, which is perhaps why the band are yet to break through in a big way – but their track Death to the Lads, the first single off their upcoming fourth album, has been tipped for the top 20 regardless. If they make it, this will be their second listing at the Hottest 100, after reaching #69 in 2014 for Surrender.
Key lyrics: “Sleeping in a bedroom full of assholes surely means I am one too.”
What’s next: Wagner embarks on a national solo tour this February, and a new Smith Street Band record is expected in the first half of this year.
Mona’s Festival of Music and Art (Mofo), now in its ninth year, is a festival that dances to the beat of its own drum. But over the last two years, since it’s been held on-site at Mona, it has riffed off the famous fictional parties of F Scott Fitzgerald’s The Great Gatsby.
Jay Gatsby, one of the greatest characters of 20th century literature, was a very rich man of mysterious origins who threw lavish parties at his Long Island estate. Many have tried to emulate his parties, but few have succeeded. Who has the means? Who has the money? Who knows all the interesting people?
This year, the Mofo program promised a “Gatsby-style Weekend at Walshy’s”, so we put it to the test. How did the festival stack up against the legendary parties featured in Fitzgerald’s classic book?
On week-ends his Rolls-Royce became an omnibus, bearing parties to and from the city between nine in the morning and long past midnight, while his station wagon scampered like a brisk yellow bug to meet all trains. – The Great Gatsby by F Scott Fitzgerald
Transport to Mona Foma is by boat along the Derwent in purpose-built ferries. If you have a Posh Pit ticket ($55 return) you get all the champagne you can quaff and canapes you can cram. Staff in sexy boilersuits do the rounds, topping up your glasses as you sail under bridges and past factories. Some of my fellow Posh-Pitters were enjoying the ferry so much that they didn’t want to get off.
“I want to travel this all day and just drink champagne,” one Melbourne man told me. “Plus I can’t face climbing the enormous staircase to get into the festival.”
But what was a civilised journey in the morning could become raucous at night. On the last ferry on Friday night, Posh Pit guests tried to start a group singalong of Dolly Parton’s Jolene. It sounded like Tasmanian devils being tortured.
Verdict: Mofo outdid Gatsby on the transport front.
I was within and without, simultaneously enchanted and repelled by the inexhaustible variety of life.
Many festivals are now segmented along tribal lines, so you won’t usually see a wealthy Gertrude Street-style baby boomer (think: grey hair in an asymmetric cut, statement glasses and Comme des Garcons-inspired tailoring) at the same festival as a bush-doof hippie adorned with chest glitter. Except at Mona Foma, where the crowd is – for want of a better word – eclectic.
While there’s plenty of weird and wonderful art to look at, it was the festivalgoers themselves who made for the most entertaining spectacle, like one couple I saw walking through the vineyard one twilight in spray-on tuxedos and Gattaca-style masks, or the men in Bedouin dress standing next to Tasmanian farmers in flannel shirts listening to Tētēma.
There’s a broad range of ages, but also every conceivable type of person. Are they all fans of the experimental synth music that dominated the 2017 program, or are they there for the art?
Verdict: It’s a mixed crowd – very Gatsby.
And I like large parties. They’re so intimate. At small parties there isn’t any privacy.
Music festivals often take place in a field – turn around at some concerts and there is the awesome sight of thousands of people packed in behind you. But Mona has enough nooks and crannies, lawns and pavilions to make each gig seem intimate.
Even at the main stage it was relatively easy to scoot down to the front and a bit of zigzagging was rewarded with the front row to watch the Mexican wrestling at Puscifer, or Kev Carmody as he played the didgeridoo.
In the James Turrell installation, around 100 people danced under the patches of exposed sky to Mdou Moctar – a Nigerian band that is one of the first to translate traditional Tuareg guitar music to electronic. While in the gallery itself, we sat in front of the magnificent Sidney Nolan panels of the Snake and watched Kelsey Lu channel Bjork through the cello.
Then there is the infamous afterparty in downtown Hobart. Faux Mo is a very large party that was held this year in a condemned office block on Murray Street. The space was enormous, but had been made intimate through the creation of venues within venues within venues. Dance in a room that used to be a stationery cupboard, or buy a drink in a bar in a tent in the basement that would fit four people at most.
Verdict: Gatsby did great parties, but Mofo surpassed him on the afterparty front.
I’ve been drunk for about a week now, and I thought it might sober me up to sit in a library.
While listening to Circuit des Yeux, I overheard some fellow punters saying there is a hole in the ozone layer above Hobart, so even when it rains you can get quite badly sunburnt. Looking around, there were a lot of people doing just that: lying on the grass outside the main stage, drinking wine, getting sunburnt. What a luxury, then, to be able to retreat into the lair-like Mona museum, where it’s cool, dark, even silent and full of interesting objects.
The current exhibition, On the Origins of Art, is at turns thought-provoking and gross. Sitting in a darkened room watching a video installation by Patricia Piccinini – which appears to be footage of blood cells created by an inverted nipple – is both disgusting and weirdly soothing, and I almost forget I’m at a festival.
Verdict: Mona is just like Gatsby’s library if you want a break from partying, but more demanding on your brain.
5. Host
“Somebody told me they thought he killed a man once.”
A thrill passed over all of us. The three Mr. Mumbles bent forward and listened eagerly.
“I don’t think it’s so much that,” argued Lucille skeptically; “it’s more that he was a German spy during the war.” …
“Oh, no,” said the first girl, “it couldn’t be that, because he was in the American army during the war.” As our credulity switched back to her she leaned forward with enthusiasm. “You look at him sometimes when he thinks nobody’s looking at him. I’ll bet he killed a man.”
Everyone has stories. The taxi driver who picked me up at the vineyard gate glanced back at the Mona building, looming fortress-like out of the hills, and said: “Somebody once told me that when they didn’t sell tickets, they bought up all the seats in all the planes and flew hundreds of people over to Hobart.”
A woman behind me, lying on a beanbag in the winery: “Someone once told me that there are parties here that get really wild.” She paused and searched for the appropriate descriptor. “Orgy wild.”
At breakfast on Sunday with another journalist: “Somebody told me that last year at Faux Mo, there were kidnappings. They’d grab you and put you on a bus that had blacked-out windows and they’d take you to the middle of nowhere where there was a party.”
Unlike Gatsby, who watched it all from a window, the man himself, David Walsh, could be sighted around the festival – striding across the tennis court in pink jeans, holding a glass of red wine; or sitting on the ground in front of Nolan’s Snake, listening to Ellen Fullman with Theresa Wong, playing her 20m Long String Instrument.
Verdict: Not really like Gatsby, even though the rumour mill runs hot. Walsh also actually spent time at his own festival.
If that was true he must have felt that he had lost the old warm world, paid a high price for living too long with a single dream … A new world, material without being real, where poor ghosts, breathing dreams like air, drifted fortuitously about.
It’s hard not to feel the politics of Washington even at the bottom of the world. It was inauguration weekend after all, a time of ceremonies and global protests.
Trump-like figures haunted the videos that opened the almost-two-hour Puscifer show. Lead singer Maynard James Keenan of Tool fame, dressed in a blue suit and a gimp mask with his hair in a quiff, gestured like a circus ringmaster, controlling the action in a series of taut little hand movements. It was a powerful set that managed to both be entertaining and sinister at once.
A more gentle spirit of resistance was set by Kev Carmody: the man dubbed Australia’s Bob Dylan, who has been singing protest songs since the 1980s. He led a singalong of the track he wrote with Paul Kelly, From Little Things Big Things Grow. It was a song that didn’t get any airplay when it first came out, until he started performing it at gigs. People grew to recognise it and sing along live, as they did on that very sunny Saturday afternoon on the fields of Mona. When those now-familiar chords started, people walked to the front and held hands or hugged the people they were with. It felt poignant somehow.
Verdict: Nobody can predict the future, but there are some spooky parallels between Mofo and The Great Gatsby’s depiction of a golden age before the crash.
• Guardian Australia was a guest of Mona and Tourism Tasmania
Lee ‘Q’ O’Denat, the man who created the popular rap news website WorldStarHipHop and once called it “the CNN of the ghetto”, has died aged 43.
TMZ first reported news of the businessman’s death on Tuesday morning, stating that he died of a heart attack, before the WorldStarHipHop Twitter account confirmed his death.
“Q was a brilliant businessman who championed urban culture, ultimately creating the largest hip-hop website in the world,” the statement read. “We ask that you remember Q in your prayers and raise a toast to the sky in his name.”
O’Denat started the hip-hop site in 2005 as a place where fans could have access to downloadable mixtapes, but the platform soon became popular for its variety of gossip and salacious videos that highlighted aspects of hip-hop culture.
The site became known for user-uploaded videos of street fights, so much so that its name became a meme in itself with parody videos made by fans surfacing. It now combines user-uploaded videos with current affairs news, including coverage of Black Lives Matter.
In 2014 it was reported that a TV show about the rise of WorldStarHipHop was in development, with How To Make It In America creator Ian Edelson connected to the project. O’Denat grew up in Queens, New York, and originally wanted to work as a standup comedian before starting his first music website in 2001.
Music, wine, flowers and cheese: what better way to escape the stresses of the world than with a summer picnic? So Frenchy So Chic (SFSC) is the annual celebration of all things French and this year’s picnic in Bicentennial Park was as popular as ever.
Held in both Sydney and Melbourne, this year marks the festival’s first year in its new home on the foreshore of Rozelle Bay in Glebe. Until now, the Sydney SFSC has taken place on the lawns of St John’s College, in the slim shadows of the University of Sydney’s sandstone buildings. The park may be a little less romantic but it’s spacious, there’s much more shade and a cool breeze drifting off the water. And, as we arrive, the dreamy vocals of chanteuse Sophie Maurin drifting beyond the festival grounds sets the tone for the day.
SFSC is arguably the best-dressed festival in town and the most Insta-ready. Floaty summer dresses and heels are de rigueur for the mostly female attendees, while the men wear loafers and tailored shorts. There aren’t quite as many Breton T-shirts in evidence this year but still plenty of flower crowns, available for purchase from two stands. Not far from where we spread out our picnic blanket, a group of women in pale frocks are partaking in a very classy, very polite bachelorette party.
The food on offer is, of course, excellent. There are crepes and moules, calamari and fries, croissants and macarons, and oodles of cheese, carefully selected from Sydney’s top French restaurants. It’s pricey but delicious, with plenty of Kronenbourg bierre blanc and Laurent-Perrier champagne being quaffed by the crowd.
The festival excels at including the younger attendees. Those under 12 get in for free and there are numerous activities, including drumming, croquet and life-size chess, to keep them occupied. Small faces painted with sparkly butterflies weave through the crowd and toddlers and tweens chase bubbles across the lawn. Indeed it’s a festival for all generations and there are plenty of grandparents keeping a watchful eye on those energetic kids, while parents sit back and sip champagne.
Although SFSC is ostensibly a music festival, only a portion of the well-heeled crowd pays close attention to what’s happening on stage. Those who do are rewarded by top-class French acts including the Breton singer-songwriter Bertrand Belin and garage pop band the Limiñanas.
Nouvelle Vague is the pick of most of the French folk I know and the group, with its evolving line-up of singers, are SFSC alumni from its earliest days. They are best known for their covers of Joy Division’s Love Will Tear Us Apart, Billy Idol’s Dancing with Myself and Buzzcocks’ Ever Fallen in Love (With Someone You Shouldn’t Have), mostly with a signature bossa nova backbeat. Last year, they released a new album, I Could Be Happy, their first in six years, and for SFSC they mix in a smattering of their own songs and more obscure covers with the crowd favourites.
The final act – and musical highlight – is Deluxe. The funky six piece started in 2007 busking on the streets of Aix-en-Provence and they take obvious delight in their Australian stage debut. Singer Elisa Poublan aka Liliboy, clad in a golden halter top, red tights and sequinned moustache skirt quickly has the crowd on its feet, shaking off the day’s summery mellowness and jumping up and down on command. The other band members Kaya, Pietre, Kilo, Soubri and Pepe all join her at the front during the lengthy set, their energy contagious on the balmy night.
Yet for all its dreaminess, by unfortunate coincidence, the Sydney SFSC is held on the same day as women’s marches are held across the world to protest against the election of the US president, Donald Trump. It feels more than a little decadent to be enjoying our raclette and saucisson as the world beyond our fabulous fenced off picnic upholds that other great French tradition of taking to the streets in protest. Still, in a world confronted with a potentially terrifying future, this is a beguiling and very welcome fantasy world.
• So Frenchy So Chic Sydney took place at Bicentennial Park, Glebe
A Chicago man was sentenced on Tuesday to nine months in prison for hacking the electronic accounts of 30 celebrities and stealing private information, including nude videos and photos.
Edward Majerczyk, 29, also was ordered to pay $5,700 in restitution for counseling services for one undisclosed celebrity victim whose photos were disseminated online.
Majerczyk is accused of orchestrating a phishing scheme that illegally accessed more than 300 email and other online accounts, including those belonging to actress Jennifer Lawrence.
According to his plea deal, Majerczyk sent emails to his victims that appeared to have come from internet service providers seeking usernames and passwords. Majerczyk illegally accessed the accounts of those people who provided that information.
Majerczyk pleaded guilty in federal court in Los Angeles last year to one count of unauthorized access to a protected computer to obtain information. He signed a plea agreement for his case to be transferred to Chicago. He was not charged or accused of selling or posting the material online.
Both sides agreed he should receive a nine-month prison term. The charge carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison.
Majerczyk’s attorney Thomas Needham said in a court filing that his client was “suffering from depression and looked to pornography websites and internet chat rooms in an attempt to fill some of the voids and disappointment he was feeling in his life.”
Needham said in a sentencing memo that the fallout from the hacking scandal “deeply affected” Majerczyk, who has seen a therapist for anxiety and panic attacks.
Federal agents have said Lawrence broke down and became distraught during a 2014 meeting about nude photos of her that appeared online. Lawrence called the leak a “sex crime” in an interview with Vanity Fair magazine.
I think you are stretching the facts by claiming that Milton Keynes “was at the epicentre of Britain’s intelligence community” (Five reasons to love Milton Keynes, G2, 24 January). Milton Keynes was not even being planned at the time Alan Turing and his colleagues at Bletchley Park were working on cracking the Enigma code. As an enduring legacy I would suggest The Point, the UK’s first ever multiplex cinema, sadly now due to be demolished for redevelopment.Geoff BunceHarpenden, Hertfordshire
• Your advert (24 January) for the May masterclass on “How to solve the Guardian cryptic crossword” carries the image of an unmistakably American non-cryptic crossword, probably from the New York Times – a very different form of challenge, but often an equally testing and satisfying one. If the day in May covers the NYT’s format as well as the Guardian’s, exploring the distinctions and the cultural reasons for them, it really will be worth the money.Charles BarrNorwich
• When moving to the parish of St Anne’s, Leicester, the director of music told me that the first line of the hymn Jerusalem (Letters, 24 January) provides evidence that St Anne is the patron saint of chiropodists.Canon Chris OxleySwinford, Leicestershire
• Professor Michael Walling (Letters, 23 January) says there are strictly only two countries with the definite article in their names: the Gambia and the Bahamas. What about the Netherlands?Werner de BockBarnwell, Northamptonshire
• I have always referred to “the Kings Road” in London. My son, who lives in Sloane Square, says it is simply “Kings Road” now. So when did this change?Shirley BetteridgeSouthampton
• My husband reminds me that only his team has the appellation “The Arsenal”.Ann Mabbott (Hull City fan)Prescot, Merseyside
• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com
• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters
“Right,” says director Jenny Sealey, an eye-catching figure dressed in blue tartan pyjamas, one of eight pairs she favours for rehearsals. “Let’s go from the fanny-grabbing moment.”
“Fanny grabbing?” repeats writer Jo Clifford in mock horror. “My god, this is a great Spanish classic we’re talking about.”
“What would you suggest I call it?” inquires Sealey. Clifford gives an impish grin. “Fanny grabbing is perfect.”
Sealey and Clifford are in rehearsals for Federico García Lorca’s The House of Bernarda Alba, which opens next month at the Royal Exchange in Manchester. Kathryn Hunter is playing the widow who rules over her household and her five unmarried daughters with a rod of iron. Sitting in a chair, a silver-topped cane in hand, Hunter’s Bernarda Alba may look tiny and frail but she exudes dominance. She makes you think of a deceptively lazy tigress, ready to pounce.
Hunter has been learning British Sign Language for the show, which casts her alongside deaf and disabled actors. This is a co-production with Graeae, the disabled-led company of which Sealey is the artistic director, and is an all-female one in terms of creatives and cast. BSL, captions and audio description – which each come with their own unique poetry – are not just added extras tacked on at the end of the process. They are fully incorporated into the action from the first day of rehearsal, adding layer after layer of meaning to Lorca’s text. Which sister signs for which sister, when Bernarda Alba does sign or refuses to sign for her two deaf daughters, and which characters can and can’t see all become meaningful. Such creative decisions underline the themes of power, status, punishment, intimacy and blindness that haunt Lorca’s original text, which was finished just a few weeks before he was executed by a fascist firing squad in Spain in 1936.
“It’s so much more complicated doing it like this, and it makes great demands on everyone, including me as the writer, but it’s potentially so much richer too,” says Clifford. “You have to think of text in a different way when you know that different members of the audience will all receive it in different ways.”
Hunter agrees: “It’s a very different process and it’s truly collaborative because everything has to be translated into BSL and audio-described, so everything has to be examined, prodded and agreed. It’s very delightful, like arriving in a new country that you’ve heard about but have never previously visited.”
The rehearsal I watch is distinctive for the sheer amount of laughter, but also because it feels like a genuine exploration of the play in which everyone – including Sealey – is willing to express their uncertainty and say, “I don’t know. Let’s try it this way and see.”
“I don’t have all the answers and I never pretend that I do,” says Sealey. “I couldn’t work any other way. It’s about trying to create a rehearsal room that is a proper process of discovery and I just have to hope that I’ve built a relationship with the actors so they trust me enough to know that eventually from those discoveries I will make the right choices.”
Sealey had always thought that The House of Bernarda Alba would mark her swansong for Graeae, the company she has led for the past 20 years. She has not only transformed Graeae artistically through developing a distinctive aesthetic in which signing and action are fully integrated, but she has also pushed it into the vanguard of campaigns for disability arts and greater diversity in British theatre.
“I wish I had never said that I’d leave after I did Bernarda Alba. I’m definitely not leaving: there is still far too much to do, and sometimes I feel as if I have barely begun. We’ve got so much planned over the next four years. This is a play I have always longed to do, but the time never seemed right, or other people were reviving it or we were focused on doing something else. But it was always there in the back of my mind as a play I really wanted to do. Maybe because I was one of four girls in my family, so I’ve always been aware of the complexities of relationships with sisters, how we do or don’t communicate, and how as sisters we all had to find different ways to navigate our way around the dynamics of family life. Maybe part of wanting to do this play is a cathartic thing.”
Hunter has always wanted to work with Sealey and Graeae, and 17 years or so ago they spent a week workshopping the play with an eye to a full production. So she didn’t hesitate when over a year ago Sealey asked her to play Bernarda Alba. But when she picked up the play to re-read it she was taken back by her own response.
“When I read it again my first thought was: how awful that this is a play about women oppressing women. But as I’ve worked on it and started digging around I’ve realised that it’s about a circle of oppression. It doesn’t make it any less grim or more joyful to do but it does make it more understandable. I think that Bernarda Alba is looking to be free herself and that’s what makes her so cruel to her daughters. She’s a deeply frustrated woman.” Like Sealey, Hunter has looked to her own – in her case, Greek – family background to try to understand the play.
“My parents had an arranged marriage. My mother was nothing like Bernarda Alba but she had a rage born of a vigorous intellect constrained by her situation. I see that in Bernarda Alba too and connect to it. She’s no psychopath but a woman maddened by repression who represses others in turn. It’s as if she’s caught in a vicious circle that can’t be broken.”
This production matches disability politics with Lorca’s story about a woman and her daughters, which operated as a political metaphor about repression. “Lorca,” says Clifford, “wrote under the shadow of fascism and we are producing this at a time when the shadow of the right looms ever larger in Europe. Lorca was under pressure to suppress his sexuality and for me as a trans woman this story of someone trying to repress female energy feels very autobiographical. It’s an incredibly powerful cry for human rights.”
Some time ago, Christina Ricci read Therese Anne Fowler’s book about Zelda Fitzgerald, called her agent and asked who owned the rights for it so she could audition. It turned out nobody was making it, so Ricci decided to do it herself. And she did. The TV series she produces and stars in, Z: The Beginning of Everything, starts this week, its title coming from a remark made by her husband, the writer F Scott Fitzgerald: “I love her and that’s the beginning and end of everything.”
Perched neatly on a huge sofa that emphasises her tiny frame, Ricci seems both childlike and worldly. The eyes, cartoonishly big, seem to transmit every thought that flashes behind them, so when she smiles it feels dazzling, although being on the receiving end of one of her withering looks (in response to questions about her childhood) can be unnerving.
“I realised that so much of what I thought about Zelda was incorrect and actually incredibly defamatory,” she says. “And then to discover that no one’s ever done anything that was really about her seemed so strange because, as an actress, you’re constantly searching for great parts.”
Others have woken up to the dramatic potential of Zelda’s story, but she has always been overshadowed by the genius of her husband. Zelda was a writer herself: although not in his league, she was essential to him – their love was passionate and inspired his work, while their marriage was famed for its hedonism, its drinking and wild parties. Zelda – diagnosed with schizophrenia, now thought to be bipolar disorder – died in a fire at a sanatorium when she was 47. Her husband had died eight years earlier of a heart attack.
Ricci’s Zelda is spirited and beautiful, her sights set on bigger things than her small world in her hometown of Montgomery in Alabama. There will be more Zeldas soon – two films are being made and several books were recently published. Why is Zelda having a moment? Instead of dismissing her as an alcoholic, argues Ricci, and buying the Hemingway version that she ruined her husband, “we finally understand her behaviour for what it was. I like that her biggest flaw was just being so genuinely herself. She was very impulsive, very much in her own head. And she was so talented.”
Ricci may be just 36, but she has been in the film industry for nearly three decades. She was scouted by a woman in the audience of her school’s Christmas play – a festive pageant Ricci remembers primarily for needing the loo while she was on stage so badly she started shaking. She did a few TV commercials, then got film roles: after her debut in Mermaids, with Cher and Winona Ryder, came The Addams Family. “I liked being at work and I liked being valued – feeling like I had my own identity and that I was good at something.”
I had read in an early interview that she was the family breadwinner: she was the youngest of four, her parents divorcing shortly after her career started, and she cut off contact with her father, a psychotherapist. But she says that wasn’t quite true. Most of her money went into a trust. “I did help my family quite a bit, but I think that it would be horrifying to call a 10-year-old a breadwinner.” Did she feel under pressure? “No, it was a relief and I couldn’t have been more grateful. It felt like God reached down and saved us. So it wasn’t pressure, I was thrilled.” She didn’t feel she had to keep working? “I wanted to keep working, because all of a sudden my brother could go to college.”
In the 1990s, Ricci’s life seemed to be taking a familiar turn – that of child star careening off the rails. She said stuff about death and incest that seemed incendiary but now just looks like teenage obnoxiousness. There were also periods of self-harm and an eating disorder. Her largely indie film roles added to the dark reputation: Ricci’s mix of extreme youth and worldliness made her perfect for a string of unruly teens and vulnerable women in The Ice Storm, Buffalo 66, The Opposite of Sex and Prozac Nation.
How did that public image fit with her private self? “At that age, I had no idea who I was, so for people to be deciding who I was was very strange.” When she read things about herself, particularly articles criticising her weight or appearance, she felt “very angry. I just thought it was disgusting to be printing these things about a 17-year-old, 16-year-old, 15-year-old. I felt very criticised and analysed. The only thing I can think of was like somebody just twisting in the wind. Being a teenager and being that public, then having to answer questions about other people’s opinions of you, was incredibly uncomfortable.”
How did she cope? “By saying really crazy things. It was like cornering an animal and waiting to see if they attack, that’s how it felt.” It has made her wary which may be why, when I ask about what impact the Trump presidency will have on women who are survivors of sexual assault, she refuses to talk about it (Ricci is a spokesperson for the Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network). Still, she does feel “incredibly blessed” to have the career she has. “But it’s not something I would choose for anybody else. I wouldn’t let my son do anything public until he’s an adult.”
Ricci has never had the fear some women have of roles drying up once they hit their mid-30s. “No, I thought I would do better as I got older. In my 20s, I wasn’t really considered a romantic lead, but I was also not character-actressy enough. It was a weird position. I was so young-looking. They still don’t like to cast me in anything where I have to be a professional. They’re like, ‘It’s not believable.’ I’ve been waiting to get older so I could get parts.”
But, she says, her kind of mid-budget independent dramas aren’t made as much now – or, rather, they are but for television. She was praised for her role as Charlize Theron’s girlfriend in Monster, but her more recent films have been less memorable (Speed Racer, Bel Ami, Mothers and Daughters). The TV shows she has starred in – Grey’s Anatomy, Pan Am, The Lizzie Borden Chronicles – fared better. Was she not being offered good or interesting film roles? “I’ve never just been offered good or interesting things,” she says with a laugh. “I’ve always had to go after things and, in this case, create my own work.”
She has seen how women’s position in the industry has got better. In 1998’s Buffalo 66, Ricci played a teenager who falls in love with her kidnapper, played by Vincent Gallo. She has said that Gallo, who was also directing, insisted Ricci’s mother – who would chaperone her – stay away, and that he regularly screamed at her during the shoot. Would a film like that get made now, a very young woman working largely alone with someone who is notoriously creepy? “Just because he’s bad at hiding it,” she says, “doesn’t mean other people aren’t really good at hiding it. Everybody’s creepy. He just happens to be really loud about it. And he’s not even that creepy. He’s just kind of a jerk, but he’s not lascivious.”
Today, I say, there’s so much more awareness of the imbalance between powerful men in the industry and young women. “Awareness but …” Her voice trails off. “We’re aware but it doesn’t mean it doesn’t go on. That’s the thing. It’s getting better, for sure, but I actually think I’m one of the few people who has never had a casting couch experience.”
She fixes me with those eyes again. “All of these things – it’s almost like I had this very naive, protected life in Hollywood because I was always the child.”
Each awards season, the market typically anoints one runaway box-office winner that captures the imagination of audiences, with notable examples from the last decade being The King’s Speech (2011) and Slumdog Millionaire (2009). Last year, that film was The Revenant – a 156-minute survival ordeal that hardly looked a commercial slam-dunk on paper, but which achieved a muscular £23.4m by the end of its UK run.
This year, the winner is La La Land, which grossed £4.37m in its second weekend of play (down a slim 23% from the opening frame), for an 11-day total of £14.91m. For comparison, The Revenant had reached £12.01m after two weekends. While La La Land benefits from some strong commercial elements, notably likable actors Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone in the lead roles, the film represented a huge risk. Successful movie musicals in recent years have overwhelmingly been adapted from stage hits, from Chicago to Mamma Mia! and Dreamgirls. La La Land benefits from no existing audience familiarity with the source material. As for director Damien Chazelle, his biggest previous hit in the UK, Whiplash, grossed £2.3m.
La La Land has an 8.7/10 user rating at IMDb, and a 93/100 score at MetaCritic. It equalled the Oscars record this week with 14 nominations.
Despite a nice run of hits with The Sixth Sense (1999), Unbreakable (2000) and Signs (2002), film-maker M Night Shyamalan has proved commercially patchy over the last decade, underwhelming with Lady in the Water, The Happening, The Last Airbender and After Earth. His last effort, the low-budget The Visit, would have returned a healthy profit thanks to a worldwide cinema gross just below $100m. Now Shyamalan’s latest offering, Split, opens in the UK with £2.55m from 450 cinemas. That’s his biggest box office debut since The Village kicked off with £2.95m in 2004. The Visit began with £1.03m from 413 venues, including previews of £209,000, in September 2015, on its way to a total of £2.93m.
Split also represents a good result for star James McAvoy, who has lately struggled to deliver commercial hits beyond X-Men and animation (Arthur Christmas, Gnomeo & Juliet). Victor Frankenstein was an expensive flop, with a lifetime gross of just £923,000. In 2013, Danny Boyle’s Trance (£4.53m lifetime) was considered a disappointment, and ditto Eran Creevy’s Welcome to the Punch (£1.17m). Jon Baird’s low-budget Filth, based on the Irvine Welsh novel, delivered a profitable £3.91m at UK cinemas.
Missing from the comScore chart because its official release date is this Friday is Sing, the latest animation from Universal’s Illumination Entertainment (Despicable Me, The Secret Life of Pets). However, the film played extensive previews on Saturday and Sunday, delivering a very robust £4.2m. That’s the biggest preview figure for a non-sequel animation, and augurs yet another sizable hit for Illumination. The Secret Life of Pets reached £36.4m last year.
While La La Land is the runaway winner among this year’s awards contenders, three other titles in the UK top 10 are battling for the attention of audiences. Lion (£1.27m from 369 cinemas) and Jackie (£663,000 from 197) both debuted at the weekend, while Manchester By the Sea (second frame takings of £522,000) continued its successful run. Kenneth Lonergan’s drama has now reached £1.65m after 10 days.
Of the three, Garth Davis’ inspirational true tale Lion is the most obvious commercial crowdpleaser, and is less dependent on success in the awards races. Pablo Larraín’s Jackie benefits from audience investment in the subject matter and star names in the cast, but it’s fair to say that Natalie Portman’s Oscar-nominated lead performance is a big asset.
Manchester By the Sea, starring Casey Affleck and Michelle Williams, has benefited hugely from its status as a major awards contender, overcoming rather tough subject matter for audiences. Lonergan’s previous film Margaret had only token distribution in the UK, achieving just £81,000 at the box office. His directorial debut You Can Count on Me, starring Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo, grossed £423,000 in 2001.
With indie cinemas attempting to jam in showtimes for La La Land, Jackie, Manchester By the Sea and Lion – and many also giving a berth to the Met Opera’s Romeo et Juliette on Saturday and the Bolshoi Ballet’s Sleeping Beauty on Sunday – it’s been a tough time for any film not in the running for major awards. Martin Scorsese’s Silence, for example, found itself in just 77 cinemas at the weekend (down from 359 for the previous frame), resulting in a precipitous drop in box office: cumulative total is £2.17m. It has picked up some nominations and the odd win, notably from critics groups, but was shut out at the Baftas and Golden Globes.
Disney’s Rogue One: A Star Wars Story ended the weekend with a cumulative total of £64.3m, which puts it in touching distance of the UK’s all-time box office Top 10 of Star Wars: The Force Awakens, Skyfall, Spectre, Avatar, Toy Story 3, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2, Titanic, Mamma Mia!, Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone and Jurassic World. Rogue One will overtake Jurassic World’s £64.5m this week, and should eventually sneak past Philosopher’s Stone (£66.1m). These figures are not adjusted for inflation.
Meanwhile, Disney is chugging away with its animation Moana, still in the top 10 in its eighth week of release. Recovering after a lacklustre debut of £2.21m, the film has now reached £18.2m. Competition from Sing saw a big drop (down 53%) for Moana at the weekend, but the film should keep ticking over through to the February half-term holiday.
Despite the stellar performance of La La Land, box office overall is 11% down on the previous session, and also 5% down on the equivalent weekend from 2016, when The Revenant ruled the roost, ahead of new entrant Ride Along 2. Cinemas are expecting a box office bonanza with the official release of Sing on Friday – with the hefty previews added in, a £10m-plus five-day opening number is likely. The good news is likely to continue with the arrival of T2 Trainspotting, which releases into 582 cinemas. Venues are reporting healthy advance sales, with sellouts in Scotland. It’s rare for a sequel to succeed after such a long delay (more than 20 years in the case of T2 Trainspotting), but this one looks likely to buck the trend. Memories of the first film are still fond, as a healthy £82,670 for a one-day re-release of the 1996 original had proved.
Also released this weekend: Mel Gibson’s visceral second world war film Hacksaw Ridge starring Oscar-nominated Andrew Garfield, and courtroom drama Denial, starring Rachel Weisz as historian Deborah Lipstadt, who was sued for libel by Holocaust denier David Irving. Arthouse titles include Christine starring Rebecca Hall, The White King, and acclaimed documentary Cameraperson.
1. La La Land, £4,373,249 from 674 sites. Total: £14,907,148 (two weeks)
2. Split, £2,548,516 from 450 sites (new)
3. xXx: The Return of Xander Cage, £1,620,811 from 462 sites (new)
4. Lion, £1,265,282 from 369 sites (new)
5. Rogue One: A Star Wars Story, £881,235 from 475 sites. Total: £64,341,177 (six weeks)
6. Jackie, £662,900 from 197 sites (new)
7. Manchester by the Sea, £521,694 from 306 sites. Total: £1,649,746 (two weeks)
8. Moana, £490,599 from 518 sites. Total: £18,181,840 (eight weeks)
9. Assassin’s Creed, £342,277 from 413 sites. Total: £7,662,432 (three weeks)
10. Passengers, £265,186 from 322 sites. Total: £12,432,868 (five weeks)
Met Opera: Romeo et Juliette, £228,384 from 176 sites
Bolshoi Ballet: Sleeping Beauty, £218,668 from 217 sites
Konwój, £27,963 from 25 sites
GoodFellas, £27,226 from 34 sites (rerelease)
Kirik Party, £9,857 from 12 sites
Olanlar Oldu, £3,497 from three sites
• Thanks to comScore. All figures relate to takings in UK and Ireland cinemas.
Poor Matthew McConaughey. In 2014, he lost 50lb to play AIDS patient Ron Woodroof in Dallas Buyers Club, and his grueling transformation was rewarded with an Oscar for best actor. Convinced that he’d cracked the formula, McConaughey then packed on another 50lb and shaved his head for his role in Gold, out this week in the US. But this time, the transformation was for nothing; reviews are middling and awards are nowhere to be seen.
And this is unfair. For every Charlize Theron in Monster, there are legions of other actors who have overhauled their bodies in return for absolutely no silverware whatsoever. Let us celebrate this mountain of pointless effort with a list.
Rapper 50 Cent had a six-year stretch of making exclusively terrible movies with names such as Dead Man Running and Caught in the Crossfire and Gun. But then, perhaps after seeing how The Machinist revitalised Christian Bale’s career, he lost a similarly worrying amount of weight to play a cancer sufferer in All Things Fall Apart, dropping 54lb by existing on a juice diet and running for three hours a day. The film went straight to VOD and was barely reviewed.
To play Mark Chapman in a film about the assassination of John Lennon, Jared Leto gained 67lb by eating pints of microwaved ice cream mixed with soy sauce and olive oil every night until he contracted gout and was forced to use a wheelchair. It took him a full year to lose the weight after the film, which has a 19% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and made less than $200,000 worldwide.
“When I read the part, it felt immediately that my character is burning energy on an almost hyper level”, Fox told Men’s Health before Alex Cross was released, describing how he visualized his character as “almost disturbingly vascular and tendony”. He spent five months existing on chicken breasts and steamed broccoli, circuit training to the point of nausea every day, to play a serial killer in a film that failed to recoup its budget by $10m, has an 11% Rotten Tomatoes score, got nominated for a Razzie, was so badly received that plans for a sequel were indefinitely shelved, and was labelled as “cloddish, slapdash, gracelessly written, and visually fugly” by Entertainment Weekly.
“There’s a level of fearlessness. I think that you have to be able to sort of go, ‘Fuck it, I’m ready to just disappear,’” Aniston said of her role as grief-stricken, partially disabled Claire Bennett in the film Cake. To reach that level, Aniston revealed her incredible physical preparation. “I basically just didn’t work out for two-and-a-half months,” she explained. The film made back less than $2m of its reported $7m-10m budget, was described as a “doughy, maudlin piece of misery porn” and failed to halt Aniston’s reliance on small parts in bad comedies.
Hemsworth consumed just 500 calories a day to prepare for his role as a drifting seaman in Ron Howard’s maritime adventure. He called In the Heart of the Sea “physically and emotionally the hardest movie that I’ve been a part of”, adding: “Losing the weight to this length, I just never want to do it again ... in some small way, we felt like we were doing what these men went through justice.” The movie made $25m domestically against its $100m production budget and ranks as one of Howard’s worst-ever performing movies.
After becoming a Hollywood pariah a decade ago, Mel Gibson threw himself into physical fitness, cutting pasta and sugar from his diet and spending three three-hour sessions with a trainer every week until he became the intimidatingly bulky villain he’d play in The Expendables 3, which made $60m less than the first Expendables film, $45m less than the second Expendables film, earned Mel Gibson a Golden Raspberry award, and was The Expendables 3.
Art in the 21st century is a floating world of curators and collectors, gallerists and critics, that generates a constant fleeting excitement without leaving much behind to impress future generations. It is a closed circuit of mutually fascinated Instagram stars exchanging the glamour of art for the lubricant of money; a school of digital sharks who need an unceasing diet of the new to keep them alive in the ocean of information; a party whose guests are scared to leave in case they are forgotten. Or, to put it another way, it is defined by biennales, those festivals of new art that can briefly attract a very engaged and very affluent audience to any location on Earth.
Biennales don’t create much of permanent value, and the art they promote rarely speaks to an audience beyond the self-defining art elite. But they seem very important at the time, to everyone involved. This year sees the big one, the Venice Biennale, back for its 57th instalment. It also sees a very little one, whose Lilliputian ambitions cast a surreal Swiftian light on the lunacy of the art world circuit that will also include Documenta 14 as well as the usual run of art fairs from Basel to, er, Basel Miami Beach.
Biennale de La Biche has got in ahead of all these purportedly unmissable artistic events by opening in January. It happens on an island – but an island even smaller and more vulnerable to rising seas than the ones that make up the urban archipelago that is Venice.
Maess Anand (@maess_drawings) with work of Lapo Simeoni (@laposimeoni) #iletlabiche #ilet #island #biennaledelabiche #biennale #laposimeoni #graffiti #graffitiart #guadalupe #artcontemporain #culturegram #curating #hello #instamuseum #ilovemyjob #wystawa #sea #exhibition #exposition
A photo posted by Biennale de la Biche (@biennaledelabiche) on Jan 22, 2017 at 6:05am PST
The Ilet La Biche is just a microscopic afterthought of land off the coast of the French territory of Guadeloupe. What little exists of it appears to be rapidly vanishing into the Caribbean. In pictures it looks exquisitely beautiful: a tiny white beach surrounded by luminous blue-green water. There is just room for one ramshackle wooden structure on the sand, which the Biennale’s Poland-based organisers Alex Urso and Maess Anand have appropriated as their gallery, concourse, hotel, lecture theatre and VIP lounge all rolled into one. Well, actually, it still looks like a big hut. To walk around it you have to paddle in the clear warm waters that lap the sand.
La Biche is such an insignificant nowhere that the curators needed no legal permission to take it over. Nor do they plan any long-term possession or permanent legacy. The works contributed by 13 participating artists – including Karolina Bielawska, Michal Frydrych, Styrmir Örn Guðmundsson, Ryts Monet, Saku Soukka and Aleksandra Urban – are designed to be left on the island and naturally decay there.
A second instalment of the world’s tiniest Biennale is a possibility – but only if, as the organisers seem to allude, La Biche still exists in two years’ time, thanks to rising sea levels. The self-conscious futility of the world’s smallest global art event has a beautiful utopian quality. It looks like a lot of fun. As are all the other art world parties that come and go.
Yet it is arguable that none of these self-regarding events leaves any more of a trace than the art which will be left on this pimple of sand. Intentionally or accidentally, the world’s smallest biennale is a mirror of the emptiness that will consume so much energy for so little purpose at its bigger rivals.
Every Oscar nomination list precipitates its single lead story, the apparently natural and irresistible emergence of a frontrunner. That of course this year is Damien Chazelle’s La La Land. This gorgeous romantic musical, starring Emma Stone and Ryan Gosling and recalling the classic work of Stanley Donen, Gene Kelly or Jacques Demy, has a record-equalling 14 nods, matching the Academy nomination score for Titanic and All About Eve. It includes picture, director, actress, actor, screenplay, cinematography and even two entries in the Cinderella category of best song: City of Dreams and Audition.
Having swooned over this movie at its premiere in Venice last year and again for its UK release last month, I’m quite ready to watch it and faint dead away with pleasure for a third, a fourth or a fifth time. But I have to mention that La La Land has its detractors. It is a film which has been subjected to an annual media phenomenon which occurs about this time: the pundit backlash. Commentators get around to watching the films which they have been nagged beyond endurance to see by the jabbering chorus of critics and find themselves in no mood to go with the flow. La La Land has been criticised for the vocal quality of Gosling and Stone. I can’t agree with this, I think their voices are just fine, all the more human and charming for being not conventional professional singers. They are not the supercharged Broadway pipes that belt out, say, Let It Go in Frozen. But yes, I concede: perhaps my comments on the movie could have made it clearer that their realness is a distinct feature and value of the movie. I should also mention my colleague Hadley Freeman’s critique, laying out her mixed feelings about the conceited lead, played by Ryan Gosling, and exactly how much we are supposed to endorse the heroic integrity of the male jazz buff.
Moonlight, from Barry Jenkins (eight nominations) is a wonderful film: its intelligence and artistry are superb, as well as its ambition and scope. It is a kind of interior epic, tracking the existence of a gay black man at three stages of his life. There is something humane and wise about this film, and the way it sees that nothing is fixed, and any given moment is a way-station to something else. Kenneth Lonergan’s Manchester By the Sea (six nominations) is another film by a real movie artist: a study of grief and the ways in which it is denied and displaced into other human activities which in turn have their effects on other people. It is a rich and complex piece of work; and actually the same thing can be said about Denis Villeneuve’s terrifically good sci-fi contact drama Arrival which had the ideal star in Amy Adams: sympathetic, smart, emotionally open. I loved the heartfelt adoption drama Lion which has eight nominations, though was less impressed by Mel Gibson’s strident, macho but well acted true-life second world war drama Hacksaw Ridge. Denzel Washington’s forthright drama Fences and Theodore Melfi’s smart, invigorating and valuable Hidden Figures – about the unsung black women scientists at Nasa in the 1960s – invigorate the list with four nominations each.
Something has to get snubbed, of course: it looks as if I, Daniel Blake, Love & Friendship and American Honey have not captured the Academy’s imagination and, as we knew already but remains baffling, Paul Verhoeven’s Elle and Pedro Almodóvar’s Julieta have not made it into the best foreign language list. Martin Scorsese’s religious epic Silence has not found much favour. Rebecca Hall deserved but didn’t get a nomination for her icy portrayal of the troubled news journalist Christine Chubbuck. But for me the dullest and most timid aspect of this year’s Oscar list is its almost ignoring Tom Ford’s brilliant, ruthlessly provocative thriller Nocturnal Animals, a double-narrative about an unhappy art dealer (Amy Adams) who gets the manuscript of an unpublished novel through the post from her estranged first husband (Jake Gyllenhaal), and the action of this explicit crime thriller is dramatised as she imagines it, with this very ex-husband pictured in the lead. It got a nomination for Michael Shannon’s great supporting performance as the deadpan Texan lawman.
Now, I love Nocturnal Animals. Not everyone does. My colleague Victoria Coren Mitchell in the Observer makes it entirely clear that in her view its portrayal of women is repulsive – and misogynist. I don’t agree. I argue that it is – at least partly – a movie about male violence, in both the obvious sense and the more insidious sense of an embittered ex-husband taking revenge on a successful woman with a narrative machine-tooled to cause upset and offence. It is bizarre, extreme, nightmarish, with a Damien Hirst sensibility. Coren Mitchell professes herself astonished that this movie gets top marks from me “right up there with Midnight Cowboy or Some Like It Hot”. Well, at the risk of getting bogged down in the issue of false comparison or false opposition … the two films I would mention are Michael Powell’s Peeping Tom or Tod Browning’s Freaks. Films with the darkest, strangest, most horrifying and incorrect scenes. And films which were hated and vehemently condemned at the time on stern moralistic grounds. But of course people should go and see Nocturnal Animals and decide for themselves.
I hardly dare return to the controversial issue of Nocturnal Animals but for Amy Adams not to get a nomination for her brilliant performance in this and her equally outstanding performance in Arrival is very disappointing. She should be one of the stars of this award season and she is a no-show. That’s a real gap. Otherwise this could be a very exciting moment for Irish star Ruth Negga, who gives an excellent, quietly conceived and subtle performance in the race drama Loving. But she faces formidable opposition from Natalie Portman whose impersonation of Jackie Kennedy in Pablo Larraín’s Jackie has been widely hailed. I think it is a tremendously accomplished work, although I can’t quite join in with the extravagant praise. Isabelle Huppert might well pinch it for her entirely outrageous and imperious performance – does she give any other sort? – in the Paul Verhoeven’s daring rape-revenge comedy Elle, which has conquered the festival circuit worldwide. There is Emma Stone of course, but also Meryl Streep, who gives one of her ripest, richest, gamiest and maddest performances (something like her Maggie Thatcher tribute act in The Iron Lady) as the off-key society warbler in Florence Foster Jenkins. If she wins she will give a great speech. But my will-win money is on Natalie Portman, and the should-win punt is Ruth Negga. In the supporting list, Octavia Spencer could well win it for her performance in Hidden Figures, but I think Naomie Harris has it for the drug-addicted mother in Moonlight, a characterisation which calls for her to deteriorate, but subtly, and with well-observed distinctions. Michelle Williams is a longer shot for Manchester By the Sea.
My feeling is that Casey Affleck will now almost certainly have the best actor award in the bag for his very moving portrayal, in Kenneth Lonergan’s Manchester By the Sea, of a man who is convulsed by grief, guilt, anxiety and rage. It is a performance which is at once very demonstrative and revealing, and yet paradoxically very closed off and hemmed in. Andrew Garfield also gets a nomination for his portrayal of the wartime conscientious objector Desmond Doss, and I have to say that this movie is a major leap forward for Garfield – his best work yet, and actually considerably more impressive than his contribution to Martin Scorsese’s Silence. But I am less enamoured of that film. Ryan Gosling and Denzel Washington get uncontroversial nods for their performances in La La Land and Fences but at the risk of being churlish I am yet again baffled that Viggo Mortensen gets a nomination for his supremely supercilious performance in the vacuous and overpraised Captain Fantastic. (Adam Driver should be in there instead for Paterson.) In the best supporting actor list, Dev Patel gets a thoroughly deserved nod for his excellent and heartfelt turn in Lion. Mahershala Ali is probably the frontrunner for his excellent and almost luminous performance in Moonlight, and Lucas Hedges is outstanding as the troubled teen in Manchester By the Sea. But my favourite part of the whole ceremony in some ways is that the best supporting actor list has what can only be described as a Texas lawman-off. Both Jeff Bridges and Michael Shannon are playing deadpan, hooded-eyes cops who have seen it all.
Actor-turned-screenwriter Taylor Sheridan is enjoying a fairytale career right now: his script for Denis Villeneuve’s Sicario was much admired, now he has a nomination for his complex and seductive screenplay for Hell or High Water. It is very impressive stuff, and the adapted section also has Arrival’s Eric Heisserer for his daring version of Story of Your Life by SF author Ted Chiang. But here I think the Academy missed a trick. Surely Melissa Mathison deserved a posthumous nomination for her work on that lovely children’s film The BFG, directed by Steven Spielberg. In fact, the screenplay nomination lists were a chance to give a pat on the back to some more people who could have done with some more love: Shane Black for The Nice Guys and indeed Whit Stillman for his elegant work on Love & Friendship. But you can’t have everything.
ArrivalFencesHacksaw RidgeHell or High WaterHidden FiguresLa La LandLionManchester By the SeaMoonlight
ArrivalLa La LandLionMoonlightSilence
Mahershala Ali (Moonlight)Jeff Bridges (Hell or High Water)Lucas Hedges (Manchester By the Sea)Dev Patel (Lion)Michael Shannon (Nocturnal Animals)
Fire at SeaI Am Not Your NegroLife, AnimatedOJ: Made in America13th
Land of MineA Man Called OveThe SalesmanTannaToni Erdmann
Casey Affleck (Manchester By the Sea)Andrew Garfield (Hacksaw Ridge)Ryan Gosling (La La Land)Viggo Mortensen (Captain Fantastic)Denzel Washington (Fences)
AlliedFantastic Beasts and Where to Find ThemFlorence Foster JenkinsJackieLa La Land
JackieLa La LandLionMoonlightPassengers
Audition (La La Land)Can’t Stop the Feeling! (Trolls)City of Stars (La La Land)The Empty Chair (Jim: The James Foley Story)How Far I’ll Go (Moana)
ArrivalDeepwater HorizonHacksaw RidgeLa La LandSully
ArrivalHacksaw RidgeLa La LandRogue One: A Star Wars Story13 Hours
4.1 MilesExtremisJoe’s ViolinWatani: My HomelandThe White Helmets
ArrivalFantastic Beasts and Where to Find ThemHail, Caesar!La La LandPassengers
Hell or High WaterLa La LandThe LobsterManchester By the Sea20th Century Women
ArrivalFencesHidden FiguresLionMoonlight
Kubo and the Two StringsMoanaMy Life As a ZucchiniThe Red TurtleZootopia
Blind VayshaBorrowed TimePear Cider and CigarettesPearlPiper
Viola Davis (Fences)Naomie Harris (Moonlight)Nicole Kidman (Lion)Octavia Spencer (Hidden Figures)Michelle Williams (Manchester By the Sea)
ArrivalHacksaw RidgeHell or High WaterLa La LandMoonlight
Ennemis Interieurs La Femme et le TGVSilent Nights SingTimecode
Isabelle Huppert (Elle)Ruth Negga (Loving)Emma Stone (La La Land)Natalie Portman (Jackie)Meryl Streep (Florence Foster Jenkins)
Denis Villeneuve (Arrival)Mel Gibson (Hacksaw Ridge)Damien Chazelle (La La Land)Kenneth Lonergan (Manchester By the Sea)Barry Jenkins (Moonlight)
Deepwater HorizonDoctor StrangeThe Jungle BookKubo and the Two StringsRogue One: A Star Wars Story
A Man Called OveStar Trek BeyondSuicide Squad
In reply to Donald Trump’s election victory – and in lightning quick time – novelist Howard Jacobson has delivered a comic fairytale that the Man Booker prize winner hopes not only explains why Trump won, but provides the “consolation of savage satire”.
Pussy is set to be published in April by Jonathan Cape, and was written by The Finkler Question author in what he described as “a fury of disbelief” in the two months after the November result. A departure from his usual contemporary fiction, the 50,000 word novella tells the story of Prince Fracassus, heir to the Duchy of Origen, famed for its golden-gated skyscrapers and casinos, who passes his boyhood watching reality TV shows and fantasising about sex workers.
Idle, boastful and thin-skinned as well as ignorant and egotistical, Fracassus seems the last person capable of leading his country. But what seems impossible becomes reality all too readily.
“Fiction can’t match reality at the moment,” Jacobson said. “The book’s been brewing in me since the beginning of 2016. I was in the US early last year promoting [My Name Is] Shylock and watching this man [Trump] on TV in horror. It was unbelievable.”
After the election, what had been brewing exploded onto the page. “I had to get up at the crack of dawn every morning and write it,” he added, admitting that Pussy was the fastest book he had ever written. “I’m a slow writer normally,” he said. “I believe in slow writing.”
Writing had been “hugely cathartic”, Jacobson said, because he was making himself laugh. In 2010, he became one of only two comic novelists to win the Booker – the other being Kingsley Amis, with The Old Devils, in 1986.
Jacobson said he hoped the new book would offer the “consolation of savage satire” to readers depressed at the year’s events and hit the new inhabitant of the Oval Office where it hurts: the ego. “Satire is an important weapon in the fight against what is happening and Trump looks like a person who is particularly vulnerable to derision,” he explained.
As well as Trump, the story takes pot shots at the president’s enablers and fans on both sides of the Atlantic. Walk-on parts are given to characters not too far removed from British political life. Asked whether leading Brexiters appear, Jacobson said: “Certainly you will be able to recognise some of them.” He added that Hillary Clinton makes a surprising appearance towards the end.
Though written with to make readers laugh, the book is more than a satire, Jacobson said: “I wanted to get over Trump’s moral bankruptcy but also the sheer bankruptcy of a culture that could produce him.” In particular, he wanted to convey the damage done to political discourse by the social networking site Twitter, which Trump has used to bypass traditional media.
Though the novelist regarded Trump as “dumb”, he said the former reality TV star had a sharp instinct for Twitter that had enabled him to address voters without the scrutiny of the press. “Social media thrives on the assertive single point of view, which is what he is able to do,” Jacobson said. Likening what has happened to a coup, he added: “If you have Twitter, you don’t need tanks.”
The Manchester-born writer and broadcaster said he had long hankered to write a fairytale, though he admitted changing his writing style to match the form had been difficult. “I had to write much shorter sentences,” he joked, saying that Jonathan Swift and Voltaire’s Candide had inspired him.
Pussy is not Jacobson’s first venture into fairytale fiction. “One of the first things that I did as a student at Cambridge in 1964 was write a fairytale called The Ogre of Downing Castle about my tutor,” he said. His tutor? The hugely influential literary critic FR Leavis, author of The Great Tradition.
A generation of young people will be “intellectually poorer, emotionally more limited, and socially more isolated” unless they are allowed access to a full range of arts and culture.
A report by campaign group the Cultural Learning Alliance, describing itself as a “call to arms” says there has been a decline in the number of children in England taking arts subjects, a reduction in arts teaching hours and fewer arts teachers employed in schools. Beyond school, informal programmes for young people have suffered due to local authority cuts.
The report offers compelling evidence that taking part in structured arts activities increases cognitive abilities and that students who study arts subjects are more employable.
One statistic shows that students from low-income families who take part in arts activities at school are three times more likely to get a degree. Another says that children who take part in arts activities in the home during their early years are ahead in reading and maths at the age of nine.
Lord Puttnam, who chairs the Cultural Learning Alliance, described the report as a wakeup call. He said: “This report clearly demonstrates that the arts empower children, create a culture of citizenship and help them to achieve their true potential. It is essential that access to arts is a right and not a privilege.
“We are calling for everyone to work together to ensure more commitment, more focus and more action to protect and expand the arts curriculum in schools.”
The report paints a picture of a “fractured system and difficult climate” that makes it increasingly hard for young people to have access to arts and culture.
It says: “To limit young people’s access to the full range of cultural experience is to disenfranchise a generation. They will be intellectually poorer, emotionally more limited, and socially more isolated, lacking the skills that are learned through creativity and collaboration.
“We cannot allow this to happen: we must act now to ensure that the next generation is given all the tools it needs to build a stronger, healthier society.”
The report, Imagine Nation, is a updated edition of one first published in 2011, and aims to explore the social, educational, economic and personal value of cultural learning.
The report also includes testimonies from figures including Sir Nicholas Serota, the outgoing Tate director who will next month become chair of Arts Council England.
Serota said experience of art and culture in school can shape all lives. “Creativity is ... one of the essential ingredients of a rich and tolerant society and of personal and national identity. It should be one of the cornerstones of education, not an option or an afterthought and we should be celebrating all kinds of intelligence and intuition, not creating hierarchies within the disciplines of the mind,” he said.
Relentless time is the subject of these poems by Choi Seung-ja, an iconic figure in Korean literature and so influential that she was once called “the common pronoun of the 80s’ poets.” But the existential despair captured in broad bravura strokes here transcends both culture and era.
—Lee Yew Leong, Editor-in-Chief, Asymptote
Like a rumor or drifting cloudthe lodger in Cheongpa-dong passes awayand morning’s black phone call rings.Suddenly at the edge of the dining tablethe species of mothers and fathersmelt into the longing spirit of water and firethe rice and soup in a chorusrecite the deceased’s prehumous words:
Wishing to dieyet going mad
A black boat appears from the blue sky.Full of cosmic humiditytransmitting an extraterrestrial Morse codeon and offDeath sends us a message.
Someday in ManhattanJohn Lennon dies andthe voice of the dead is floating.
Mama don’t goDaddy come home
The smell of sin, the smell of sin, ruins of sadness,still lingering in my soul.
Every day I wake up at the end of the deserted street.Last night’s dreams, sins of the past,unlivable dreams, the sin of living incompletely.In the dark of last nightthe clock that measured all of mekeeps ticking in the same countdown.
Run, time, runputting on my frail weightmade of only dream and sinspeed like a bullet.I want to watch my bones shatter.I want to snigger in the windblowndust of my bones.
The earth emits mysterious heat.The chirping of birds withers midair.While the ashen sky retreatsaching leaves turn.The thirsty verdure grows by degrees.At last green’s fearful chaos pours out.Everything will be over.Time will come to rest.In the air, the sneer of green afire.
Into the deep, deep earth, the sap drains.The barren background sways.The sun comes to a halt forever.Like a ghost only green remains in the world.
Translated from the Korean by Lei Kim
*****
Sales of George Orwell’s dystopian drama 1984 have soared after Kellyanne Conway, adviser to the reality-TV-star-turned-president, Donald Trump, used the phrase “alternative facts” in an interview. As of Tuesday, the book was the sixth best-selling book on Amazon.
Comparisons were made with the term “newspeak” used in the 1949 novel, which was used to signal a fictional language that aims at eliminating personal thought and also “doublethink”. In the book Orwell writes that it “means the power of holding two contradictory beliefs in one’s mind simultaneously, and accepting both of them”.
The connection was initially made on CNN’s Reliable Sources. “Alternative facts is a George Orwell phrase,” said Washington Post reporter Karen Tumulty.
Conway’s use of the term was in reference to White House press secretary Sean Spicer’s comments about last week’s inauguration attracting “the largest audience ever”. Her interview was widely criticized and she was sub-tweeted by Merriam-Webster dictionary with a definition of the word fact. On last night’s Late Night with Seth Meyers, the host joked: “Kellyanne Conway is like someone trying to do a Jedi mind trick after only a week of Jedi training.”
In 1984, a superstate wields extreme control over the people and persecutes any form of independent thought.
Chopping and screwing, a DJing technique invented by Houston pioneer DJ Screw in the early 90s that pitches compositions down, is about feeling. Remixing a song in this way changes its texture; it makes the tones richer but also deeper and darker. In a 1995 interview with RapPages, Screw explained the technique: “The Screw sound is when I mix tapes with songs that people can relax to,” he said. “Slower tempos, to feel the music and so you can hear what the rapper is saying. I make my tapes so that everyone can feel them.” For Screw, slowing a record down allowed it to breathe, bringing new context to what was rapped and adding a new tint to the catalogs of the rappers he liked to spin — artists such as OutKast, Tupac, 8Ball & MJG, Warren G, and Spice 1.
As he would tell it, the sound was designed to complement drowsy drug highs. Its sedated motion can communicate a number of things: calm, leisure, grogginess, chromaticism, and an almost numbing sense of ease. In a 1999 interview with the defunct rap magazine Murder Dog, Screw proclaimed: “I’m gonna screw the world up. It’s screwed up, but it ain’t finished.” The influential Houston DJ died a year later, but his vision came true. Now more than ever, Screw music is commonplace. To paraphrase another quote of his: the underground is now worldwide.
After the Texas rap explosion of the mid-00s (which saw rappers such as Mike Jones, Paul Wall, Chamillionaire, Lil Flip, and Slim Thug find popularity and bring attention to the scene), the technique underwent another renaissance in the late aughts and earlier this decade, first when a DJ Screw flip (November 18th) landed on Drake’s breakout mixtape So Far Gone, then on A$AP Rocky’s viral single Purple Swag. (Drake’s 2011 Take Care single HYFR also samples a screw classic – ESG’s Swangin’ and Bangin’.) Around the same time, the Odd Future member Mike G was making his own chopped mixes online. Perhaps coincidentally, only a few months after Purple Swag, the University of Houston Libraries acquired DJ Screw’s record collection for an exhibit.
The Houston DJ Michael “5000” Watts suggested that appropriation of the form by popular outsiders was a good look for the culture, even if he believed Rocky’s Purple Swag to be a “swagger jack”. “I see a lot of people that aren’t even from Texas that are part of the screwed movement and that are giving the movement a big boost and jump,” he said in 2011. “A lot of people thought the whole thing was dead, but out here in Texas – like me, the OG Ron C, and a few others – we always been doing it. People like A$AP Rocky, they really put it out there and it’s like bringing a whole genre to life, that makes people pay attention to it again, they know it’s not dead.”
Rocky was put on to Screw music by the A$AP Mob curator A$AP Yams, who himself promoted Screw culture and its aesthetic with his own Throwed Ass Jams mix. As the popular rappers of the moment were using the sound, its popularity grew among their fans. The Austin producer Eric Dingus was screwing songs from across the spectrum – Kanye West’s Blood on the Leaves, Fantasia’s Without Me, and even material by the J-pop group Perfume. Eventually, even the Grizzly Bear drummer, Chris Bear, was chopping and screwing the band’s song Plans. As it has approached critical mass, a small but dedicated group of local DJs have worked to preserve its Houston origins.
In recent years, and with the internet as a distributor, OG Ron C and the Chopstars have continued to churn out tapes with their Chopped Not Slopped series, their ultimate goal being preservation of DJ Screw’s legacy. In 2015, Ron C got a signal boost on Drake’s Beats 1 show, OVO Sound Radio. Other Houston DJs such as DJ Purpberry and DJ AudiTory are doing their part to keep Screw’s name alive, too, tirelessly screwing everything from Lil Uzi Vert to Tory Lanez to Mac Miller.
Last year saw the chop go pop. More records got screwed than ever before, Rihanna’s Anti, the Weeknd’s Starboy, Beyoncé’s Lemonade, and Frank Ocean’s Blonde among them. Big-time rap releases including Kanye West’s The Life of Pablo, Drake’s Views, and Chance the Rapper’s Coloring Book were all reworked. Solange’s A Seat at the Table, Childish Gambino’s Awaken, My Love!, and Bryson Tiller’s Trapsoul also got screwed. The technique was also applied to indie rock. A screwed version of Mitski’s Your Best American Girl surfaced on YouTube and Dirty Projectors’ comeback single Keep Your Name replicated the effects with pitch-down slo-mo vocals. Even Tame Impala’s Currents got the chopped and screwed treatment.
Perhaps the most surprising turn for DJ Screw’s now decades-old technique was that it became a part of the very fabric of an award-winning film. Barry Jenkins’ Moonlight, which is scored by Nicholas Britell, uses chopping and screwing to create texture and imply depth. A pivotal scene in the film is soundtracked by a chopped and screwed version of Jidenna’s Classic Man, but it’s more subtly used in the score itself: Chiron’s theme is a “bent version” of Little’s theme, and Black’s theme is a chopped and screwed version, warping the strings out of shape. There’s a specific word Britell uses to describe what’s taking place: evolution.
An evolution is an appropriate way to describe the activity surrounding Screw culture, too, though sonically it retains many of the same properties as the original Screw tapes. Screw culture has come to represent more than just chopping and screwing records in recent years; it’s an aesthetic now, one that’s come to represent a laid-back sense of cool, a transporting, almost disorienting atmosphere, and (for better or worse) codeine and opiate abuse (Screw, UGK’s Pimp C, and A$AP Yams all died of overdoses). But the technique lives on for more than its superficial value or any sort of commercial value (if it has any); it carries a sort of resonance in its sonics, a multi-dimensionality. The sound is inherently Houston, but the feel is transcendent and timeless. Across decades and eras and genres, it makes moments feel eternal.
My aunt, Margaret Engering, who has died aged 89, was an innovative music teacher employing the Suzuki method. She became fascinated in the 1970s by the teaching techniques of the Japanese musician Shinichi Suzuki, who advocated teaching the violin to very young children. Subsequently, she retired early from her career as an architect, enrolled on a teaching course with Suzuki at his studio in Japan, and returned home to set up one of the few Suzuki schools in the UK, in Balham, south London. She stayed in contact with Suzuki until his death in 1998..
Her enthusiasm for, and dedication to, the Suzuki method was contagious and she encouraged a great many young violinists during her time as a teacher. Many happy Saturdays were spent with her students at her Nightingale Suzuki group.
Margaret was born at home in Heswall, Wirral, daughter of Raymond Shaw, a Liverpool cotton trader, and his wife, Kathy (nee Miller); she was followed two years later by a brother, Alastair. From an early age Margaret played the piano, violin and viola. Educated at Murrayfield school in Heswall, then at Cheltenham Ladies’ college, she was persuaded by her parents to study architecture at Liverpool University and to keep music as her hobby, although she showed great promise.
On graduating she worked in Warrington, where she met Michael Engering, also an architect. They married in the late 1950s and subsequently settled in Balham. Margaret continued to play her instruments and made many friends in the music world, playing at and attending concerts across London. She regularly performed with the Kingston and District Chamber Music Society, and the Oxford and Cambridge Musical Club, and enjoyed attending events at Glyndebourne and the Cheltenham festival.
Margaret was a friend and supporter of Bernard Wheeler Robinson, who held events for musicians at his home, Pigotts, near High Wycombe. Pigotts continues to inspire the many musicians who attend music camps there.
Both Margaret and Michael were interested in the welfare of young people with musical talent, and aimed to help individuals to fulfil their ambitions. Michael bought a number of properties during the 1950s and 60s which provided affordable accommodation for composers and musicians attempting to pursue a musical career and in need of financial support.
In the last 10 years Margaret became increasingly immobilised after a series of strokes, which prevented her from playing.
Michael died in 2001 and Alastair in 2002. Margaret is survived by me and my sister, and by five great-nieces and great-nephews. Margaret was very encouraging to my children, Tom and Alice, hoping they would continue her love of music. They both play the violin and piano.
Horror movies have always reflected and explored the political climate of the eras that produced them. In the 1950s, Cold War paranoia led to a spate of films such as Invasion of the Body Snatchers about aliens hiding among us, looking to destroy humanity from within. Later the chaos and bloodshed of the Vietnam war inspired a cycle of cynical, anarchic and bloody movies such as Tobe Hooper’s Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Wes Craven’s Last House On the Left, in which the rules of civilised society collapse amid senseless, numbing violence. Horror cinema, with its in-built tropes of shock and tension, has always provided a convenient way for culture to process real-life fears.
This is why Resident Evil 7, released this week to much critical acclaim, is an interesting benchmark for where horror video games are right now, and what they say about the world around us. Set in a nightmarish version of rural Louisiana, the story has everyman Ethan Winters stumbling on a seemingly abandoned plantation mansion while searching for his missing wife, Mia. What he discovers however, is psychopathic family, who imprison him in their supernatural lair.
It’s an enormous re-direction from the previous two titles in the Resident Evil series, which took the originally tense and slow-paced formula of the survival horror genre in a more action-orientated direction. Those games had epic battles, hordes of monsters and well-armed soldiers, and the pace was more akin to a military shooter than a classic horror experience.
Of course, there are commercial reasons for Capcom to revert to the style and structure of its original Resident Evil games: fans of the franchise were becoming alienated, and there were better military action games out there. But it also feels like the right time for horror games to turn in on themselves.
Whatever your political persuasion, 2016 was filled with seismic sociocultural shocks, with Brexit and Donald Trump being the standout examples. In the aftermath of both the EU decision and the US election, there was an outpouring of uncertainty and alienation; people took to social media to express their incomprehension – families with differing political views turned on each other. In short, we entered an era of mass, localised suspicion: who or what did my neighbours vote for and why? If they don’t think like me, what else are they hiding? In a debate that took in immigration, patriotism and identity politics, the impulse on social media was to ‘other’ those who held opposing views, to represent these people as intrinsically different, even alien.
If horror entertainment really does reflect the fears of our times, then we should be entering another period in which the monsters are our neighbours, and the venues are our homes and towns. Although obviously developed in Japan, it’s fascinating that Resident Evil 7 should take as its setting the American rural south, feeding into the horror mythology of the sociopathic redneck that cinema explored in the 1970s, through the Texas Chainsaw Massacre, The Hills Have Eyes, Deliverance and others. Whether consciously or not, Capcom has taken its latest title into a place of symbolic fear and resentment for metropolitan Americans. The Baker family are the rednecks, the deplorables, taken to their absolute limits.
Resident Evil 7 is not alone here. Last year saw the prescient We Happy Few about a dystopian society controlled by an Orwellian state obsessed with media manipulation. There was also the excellent Layers of Fear, in which an increasingly unsettled painter fights to finish his major work in a house that is constantly shifting and changing. This year, two other titles Allison Road and Visage will make similar explorations of the old haunted house genre, and both put the emphasis on psychological fear rather than spooks and jump scares. This is, after all, an era in which there is no certainty and no escape – the sociopolitical horrors of the world follow us to our TVs, smartphones and tablets; they chase us on to social media. The haunted house genre subverts our idea of home as a place of safety and escape. This seems remarkably relevant in 2017.
Elsewhere, one of the most intriguing new ‘horror’ titles from the independent sector is Hello Neighbor, a stealth game where the player must sneak into the house next door, ostensibly to find out what is hidden in the basement. The neighbour however, has advanced AI and every time he catches you near the house, he erects a new defence. Due out this summer, the game is an interesting examination of petty paranoia and provincial suspicion, echoing the post-Brexit, post-election days of blame and finger-pointing.
The essence of horror is possibility – the possibility that your worst nightmares could come true. When we live in a political climate of epochal change and uncertainty, the sense of dread floods everything, until the smallest assumptions are tested and found wanting. This is when horror entertainment stops being about super soldiers battling giant monsters and turns in towards the town, the neighbour, the home.
“I’m interested in vulnerable characters, in normal human beings,” said Resident Evil creator Shinji Mikami when we interviewed him three years ago. “The horror experience is most scary when the player really isn’t sure whether their character is going to live or die – death and survival need to be on a constant see-saw. If there’s a situation where you’re not 100% sure that you can avoid or defeat the enemies, if you feel maybe there’s a chance you’ll make it – that’s where horror lies.”
In 2017, everyone has been battered by these vast political and societal changes, and we all hope things will get better. It’s that hope that horror clings to. Once again, the seemingly deserted house, the one no desperate wayfarer should enter, is a potent symbol of both salvation and annihilation. The scales could tip either way. If we can’t process our fears and our uncertainties about everything and everyone around us, it’s OK. Horror games will do that for us.
La La Land, the movie musical which broke records at the Golden Globes earlier this month – where it took more awards than any other film in history – looks likely to repeat the trick at February’s Oscars.
Damien Chazelle’s movie musical is up for best picture, director, actor, actress, original screenplay, cinematography, costume design, film editing, original score, original song (twice, for both City of Stars and Audition), production design, sound editing and sound mixing. This puts it level-pegging with current nominee record-holders All About Eve (1950) and Titanic (1997) and on course for continued celebration at the ceremony itself. All About Eve went on to win six Oscars; Titanic took 11.
“I’m a little speechless,” said Chazelle, 32, whose next project – and third feature – is a Neil Armstrong biopic starring La La Land’s lead, Ryan Gosling. “I’m filled with gratitude.”
Such was the dominance of Chazelle’s hymn to Hollywood that other films were left in the relative cold, regardless of how impressive their achievements. Moonlight, Barry Jenkins’s coming-of-age tale about a young black man at three stages of his life, came in joint second with eight nods, alongside Denis Villeneuve’s sci-fi Arrival (although it failed to land recognition for star Amy Adams).
Meanwhile Manchester by the Sea, Kenneth Lonergan’s drama about a grief-stricken Boston janitor, followed with six, alongside adoption drama Lion and Mel Gibson’s war epic Hacksaw Ridge.
Fences, Denzel Washington’s adaptation of the August Wilson play, took four, as did Hidden Figures, Theodore Melfi’s real-life tale of three pioneering black female mathematicians working at Nasa in 1962.
The spread of nominees seems sufficiently diverse to ward off a third consecutive year of protests. The lack of a single acting nominee of colour in the 2016 and 2015 lists prompted widespread outrage, revolving around the #OscarsSoWhite hashtag.
The Academy has taken radical action to try and address the issue, with the 683 new invitees last summer being 46% women and 41% people of colour. This brings the total number of voting members to over 7,000; around 500 more than the Baftas, and around 6,900 more than the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, who decide the Golden Globes.
Speaking to the Guardian, Jenkins – who, at 37, is only the third black director to be nominated in both the director and picture categories – said efforts needed to be made to ensure that “this year isn’t an aberration”.
“It’s lovely to see the work that’s nominated reflect the world at large,” he continued. “But it’s difficult: the films this year won’t be the same films as next year. We just have to be diligent and be mindful of these different voices and different kinds of work.”
This year seven non-white actors are up for awards: Washington and Viola Davis for Fences, Ruth Negga for Loving, Dev Patel for Lion, Octavia Spencer for Hidden Figures and Naomie Harris and Mahershala Ali for Moonlight. Bradford Young became the second black cinematographer to be nominated, for his work on Arrival, while Moonlight’s Joi McMillon became the first black female nominee up for editing.
Almost all candidates for best documentary are African-American: Raoul Peck for I Am Not Your Negro, Ezra Edelman for OJ: Made in America, Roger Ross Williams for Life Animated and Ava DuVernay for 13th, a shocking study of prison prejudice in the US, which is fancied to take the prize following DuVernay’s snub for Martin Luther King drama Selma a few years ago. They are joined in the category by Gianfranco Rosi’s Fire at Sea, about the impact of the migrant crisis on the small Italian island of Lampedusa.
Another record was broken in the best actress category, with Meryl Streep beating her own total of 19 Oscar nominations to make it 20 for the title role as a deluded singer in Stephen Frears’s Florence Foster Jenkins.
She will compete alongside Loving’s Ruth Negga, Emma Stone for La La Land, Natalie Portman for Pablo Larrain’s Jackie Kennedy biopic, and Isabelle Huppert, who won the Golden Globe for her role as a formidable Parisian who takes unusual revenge on her rapist in Paul Verhoeven’s controversial comedy/drama Elle.
That film was omitted from the foreign language shortlist, but frontrunner Toni Erdmann, a three hour German comedy about a larky father and his uptight daughter did make the final cut.
There was a little cheer for Martin Scorsese, whose religious epic Silence – which failed to get a single nomination from the Baftas or the Globes – was recognised for cinematography. Sully, Clint Eastwood’s plane crash drama, was similarly lucky, scoring a sound editing nod following similar earlier snubs.
Tom Ford’s Nocturnal Animals did worse than anticipated, landing only a supporting actor nomination for Michael Shannon (rather than co-star Aaron Taylor-Johnson, who won in the equivalent category at the Golden Globes).
And there was disappointment for Deadpool, Ryan Reynolds’ R-rated superhero comedy, which had been predicted to follow its $783m global box office take with a best picture nod, but didn’t. Whit Stillman’s Jane Austen adaptation, Love & Friendship, was also unrecognised, likewise British hopefuls I, Daniel Blake and American Honey.
Oscars bridesmaid Michael Keaton, who just missed out to Eddie Redmayne in 2015, is not in the running this year for his performance as McDonald’s tycoon Ray Kroc in The Founder. And Matthew McConaughey’s radical physical transformation for Gold also failed to convince Oscar voters.
The best picture nomination for Manchester By the Sea marks a first for Amazon, who backed the film and who are now the first streaming service in the running at the Oscars.
A number of odd outliers also found their way onto the list, including the Brad Pitt/Marion Cotillard romance Allied (for costume design), 13 Hours (for sound mixing), Passengers (for score and production design). Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find them also took two (production design and costume design); likewise Rogue One: A Star Wars Story (visual effects and sound mixing). The Lobster, Yorgos Lanthimos’s surreal dating satire (released in the UK in 2015), squeezed into the original screenplay lineup.
The most curious category was perhaps best makeup, which saw acclaim for just three movies: Star Trek Beyond, Suicide Squad and A Man Called Ove, a Swedish comedy drama about a suicidal 59-year-old widower who befriends his neighbours. The film is also up for the foreign language Oscar.
The Academy broke with tradition for Tuesday’s announcement, when the categories were read out by previous nominees including Jennifer Hudson, Brie Larson, Marcia Gay Harden and Jason Reitman in an audience-free environment. The ditching of the usual press conference format attracted some backlash from PRs and distributors, for whom attendance was seen as a point of pride.
The Golden Globes were held two weeks ago and saw La La Land go home with seven trophies. But the best drama gong was won by Moonlight; whether it repeats the trick of 12 Years a Slave four years ago and goes on to take best picture will be revealed on 26 February.
This year’s Oscars will be presented at a ceremony hosted by Jimmy Kimmel and, following the positive reaction to Meryl Streep’s speech attacking Donald Trump at the Globes, it is expected to be a highly political occasion.
In what is being seen as a damage limitation exercise, the publisher of rightwing controversialist Milo Yiannopoulos has written to authors to reassure them that his forthcoming book Dangerous will not contain hate speech.
Acknowledging the level of opposition to the title, Carolyn Reidy, Simon & Schuster president and CEO, told authors: “I want to make it clear that we do not support or condone, nor will we publish, hate speech. Not from our authors. Not in our books. Not at our imprints. Not from our employees and not in our workplace.”
In the letter leaked to Buzzfeed, Reidy added that Yiannopoulos, who was reported to have been paid $250,000 (£200,000) for the book, had assured editors at S&S imprint Threshold Editions that the book would be “a substantive examination” of the issues surrounding political correctness and free speech.
S&S confirmed to the Guardian that the letter had been sent out to authors, but declined to comment further.
Reidy’s letter came in the wake of a vociferous backlash against publication from authors, critics, celebrities and booksellers. After news in December that the Breitbart technology editor and figurehead for the “alt-right” had won a six-figure publishing deal, pressure grew to boycott all Simon & Schuster subsidiaries in the US.
In the letter, Reidy appeared to distance Threshold Editions’ decision to take on Yiannopoulos from rest of the company. Adding that the imprint was “editorially independent”, she wrote: “Its acquisitions are made without the involvement or knowledge of our other publishers.”
Threshold, which publishes conservative and rightwing titles, had believed that “an articulate discussion of these issues, coming from an unconventional source like Mr Yiannopoulos, could become an incisive commentary on today’s social discourse that would sit well within its scope and mission”.
Despite the editorial independence of the imprint, Reidy implied that Yiannopoulos’s prose will also be overseen from the top of the company, writing that S&S would “work hard” with Yiannopoulos to ensure it adhered to the company’s standards.
The decision to award the British-born journalist a lucrative book contract was severely criticised by actor and comedian Leslie Jones, whose bullying by Yiannopoulos fans led to the controversialist’s permanent exclusion from the social media site in 2016.
Writing in the Guardian, Adam Morgan, editor of the Chicago Review of Books, said his publication would not review any books published by S&S in protest at the deal. Accusing Yiannopoulos of being “a clickbait grifter who has made a name for himself spewing hate speech”, Morgan said: “As the editor-in-chief of a small literary review, I wanted Simon & Schuster to know that broadcasting his rhetoric would have real-world consequences.”
Some US booksellers have said they will not stock the book, which has reached No 1 in the Amazon censorship and politics chart, despite not being released until March. British publishers also shied away from the book after the UK division of S&S confirmed it would not publish it. Earlier this month, insiders at other UK publishers told the Guardian that they regarded the book as “toxic” and would not pursue it.
“A lot of semi-toxic books do go to large publishers, but I wouldn’t touch this if it was offered to me and don’t think anyone else will,” one senior editor said.
The lack of a platform in the UK for the provocateur was also said to hamper his chances of striking a deal outside the US. “We have a history of publishing toxic books here that have done well, but this won’t be one of them. He’s just not that well known,” said the publishing director of one of the biggest houses.
Love is as strong as death, says the Song of Solomon. That is also the message of this strange show by Maury Yeston (music and lyrics) and Thomas Meehan and Peter Stone (book), which surfaced off-Broadway in 2011. It is immaculately staged by Thom Southerland, but you feel that Yeston and Stone had more success with Titanic in making a musical out of seemingly intractable material.
The show, based on a 1924 play, involves Death taking the form of a handsome Russian prince and spending a weekend on the shores of Lake Garda with an aristocratic Italian family: supposedly a great leveller, Death here appears something of a social snob. The big question is whether, when he vanishes on the stroke of midnight, he will take with him Grazia, the daughter of the house. However, since Grazia – to borrow a Keatsian phrase – is more than half in love with easeful Death, there is little tension. The show’s creators fill out the time by ensuring everyone in the cast gets a number: some of these, such as a duet for an aged Contessa and her doctor, are delightful but they don’t so much advance the plot as decorate it.
Southerland directs the show gracefully, Morgan Large’s designs have a weathered beauty, and the cast is good. Chris Peluso and Zoë Doano as the leads have the right air of mutual fixation, Helen Turner shines as a shimmying flapper, and Gay Soper and Anthony Cable are touching as the romantic oldsters. But, in laying on the charm, the show finally robs death of its sting.
• At Charing Cross theatre, London, until 4 March. Box office: 08444 930 650.
Richard MacLean Smith is unspooling a remarkable story about his grandad during the second world war. “He was in a mid-air crash and his plane got cut in half,” says the creator of the Unexplained podcast. “The pilot had a parachute and jumped out, but my grandad didn’t have one because he was a navigator and it would have got in his way. As the plane went into a tailspin, he thought there was no way he would survive. But suddenly, a parachute came out of nowhere and hit him on the chest.”
Then comes the real twist. “I found out recently that at the very moment the parachute hit him, my grandad had a vision of an old woman in the plane. At the same time, his mother had gone to see a medium because she’d been told he was missing, presumed dead. The medium told her he was still alive – and being looked after by an elderly relative.”
This kind of story is Unexplained’s bread and butter. MacLean Smith describes his podcast, which returns this week, as “more paranormal than supernatural”. A surprise hit since it launched last January, Unexplained has already been streamed more than four million times, and reached number two in the iTunes charts (behind juggernaut pod Serial). With episodes on the Pontefract Poltergeist, occultist Aleister Crowley and the real-life story behind The Exorcist, plus the promise of an investigation into time-slips in Liverpool and “a British-based story of an unsolved crime”, it’s distinctly uneasy listening.
You only have to hear the episode on the Hexham Heads, two grotesque carvings found in a garden, to become hooked. Legend has it that they could move by themselves and summon a horrific creature that was part-man, part-ram to a suburban home to lurk in the bedrooms. The way MacLean Smith tells the story is logical and detached, so the mental images his words conjure up are all the listeners’ own. “Listening intently is a form of removing yourself from reality and taking a trip into your own world, where things are less concrete and space is limitless,” he says. “These are stories that play on our deepest fears, that provoke and unsettle the imagination.”
Another episode focuses on John and Florence Pollock, whose children were killed by an out-of-control car on the way to church in the 1950s. The couple later had twins. One was born with the same birthmark as their dead sister, while the other had the same scar – and they both claimed to have memories of their dead siblings’ childhoods. “It’s understandable that they might immortalise them through their next children,” says MacLean Smith, well aware he’d tapped into the fear of losing a child, “but it also plays with the idea of reincarnation.”
Each story ends without conclusion, as MacLean Smith is keen to leave the mystery open-ended. While his day job is in drama development, he’s always been fascinated by horror and the paranormal and has spent years searching for stories that have never been debunked. Finally, in 2015, he decided to start a podcast then soon settled on a title.
The next day, he walked into a charity shop and found himself standing before a shelf of old magazines named Unexplained. The coincidence confirmed to him he’d chosen the right name. At first, he recorded it in his living room, which he had to soundproof with towels. Episode two made it on to iTunes’ New and Noteworthy, which propelled it. “In a very pathetic way, I was refreshing my phone all day to see if it had moved up the charts – then it went to number two,” he says, modestly. As it gained momentum, he panicked about how to sustain the success. He needn’t have worried.
“People have always become interested in esoteric things at uncertain times and we’re in a pocket of that now, catalysed by what’s happening in America,” he says, before adding: “Of course, there’s no such thing as certainty – apart from death.” It’s this fear of death that drove him to investigate the unknown. “I had my mid-life crisis quite young,” he says. (He’s 35 now.) As a teen, he watched his grandad die and was struck by how petrified he was. “When you’re a kid, you assume everybody’s fine with death, like: ‘It’s our turn, we’ll go now.’ It was an eye-opener to see an older person just as scared of dying as I was. I’d never not be terrified.”
But exploring the unexplained hasn’t done much to allay his fears. “As an atheist I would dearly love there to be an afterlife, and if the stories I’m exploring were true there would be comfort in that,” he says. “But perhaps it’s better to have the mystery. If we found out there were angels, aliens and the afterlife it wouldn’t take long before it became accepted and mundane rather than extraordinary.”
Unexplained series one is on iTunes, and series two starts on Acast on 25 January.
In many ways, the trailer for the new Lifetime movie Britney Ever After is superfluous. It’s a biopic of Britney Spears, which means it’s almost entirely going to be made up of footage of a woman dancing in her knickers, with undue attention paid to the time she shaved her head.
Plus, it’s a Lifetime movie, so in terms of quality it’s bound to be at least the equal of The Brittany Murphy Story, Whitney Houston: A Tragic Love and, of course, the Jamie-Lynn Sigler vehicle Mommy I Didn’t Do It.
And yet, the Britney Ever After trailer exists, and there’s just about enough footage contained within its 30 seconds to justify a closer look. Lucky old you, eh?
Well, there we have it. Less than one second in and Britney Ever After has already met the requirement of women dancing in their knickers. This is just a brief shot of a Britney concert, however, which denies us the pleasure of seeing how this unauthorised biopic of a living celebrity will navigate its likely inability to secure the rights to any Britney Spears music. Perhaps here she’s singing a song called Whoops I Did It Once More. Who knows?
Then we’re presented with this weird quote, which raises so many questions. Such as “Does Lifetime feel it necessary to explain who Britney Spears is in order to entice people to watch?” And “Of all the reams and reams of words written about Britney Spears over the last two decades, why did Lifetime settle on a quote from a woman who works at bustle.com?” And, obviously: “Hasn’t Britney’s career stretched across two millennia? If so, could Shannon Carlin of bustle.com perhaps specify which one she’s referring to?”
Next: a shot of Britney Spears dancing in her underwear in a nightclub, in the middle of the sort of weird dance circle where nobody wants to get near her or look at her.
Except this guy. Justin Timberlake. Or that guy she married. Or that other guy she married. Honestly, this isn’t very good casting, so it’s impossible to say. As an aside, only two seconds of this trailer have passed so far.
So, anyway, this is Unauthorised Lifetime Britney Spears. She’s the most famous woman on the planet, thanks to copyright-free soundalike songs called things like Please Hit Me Again Darling, (You’re Causing Me to Go) Loopy, I’m Neither a Child Nor An Adult Yet, and I Am Slaves R Us. Everything is great and nothing could possibly go wrong.
But wait! Seven seconds in, and we’re already at that weird week in 2007 when Britney shaved her head and started attacking cars with an umbrella. Hopefully though, the film will realise that this was just a blip, and dedicate a suitably short scene to it.
Alternatively, it’ll install this moment as the linchpin of the entire story and obsess about the whole thing in forensic detail, because Lifetime biopics only really work if the subject is dead, and this is the closest that Britney Spears came to self-destruction.
The film also covers Britney’s wedding to, well, whoever this is supposed to be. Maybe Kevin Federline? It’s hard to say. You probably shouldn’t rule out the possibility that it’s Justin Timberlake, I guess.
And then, finally, Britney Ever After ends with a haunting shot of Britney Spears smoking and staring into a mirror with a crazed look in her eye. Only kidding! This shot comes from 15 seconds into the trailer. The second half of the trailer is literally just footage of a woman dancing around in her knickers, which I didn’t bother to screengrab because Jesus Christ.
The bravery of the White Helmets in Syria is beyond dispute, but what is there left to say about them? Plus, any documentary about Aleppo is liable to seem dated within weeks. However, Last Men in Aleppo skilfully sidesteps these concerns, even if it necessarily feels like a long and depressing story of inevitable failure.
Directed by Feras Fayyad in collaboration with Danish film-maker Steven Johannessen and the Aleppo Media Centre, this documentary explores lives spent in a loop. Volunteers cast anxious looks skywards as planes fly over, embark on a series of desperate rescues, and hold long discussions about the future for them and their families. This cycle plays out and then restarts. It’s a difficult watch, and one that will end with more imminent deaths and defeat one day closer.
Fayyad doesn’t flinch from the gruesome details. We see hands, feet and other body parts in the rubble, as well as children’s gaping head wounds: there’s little break from the tears and desperation. This is a 100-minute account of lives lived in hell, without proper medicine and housing, where a gathering of friends is considered a legitimate bombing target, and where children’s hospitals are shelled. A trip to a playground offers a moment of joy, but in less than a minute, the children are begging to be taken home as jets fly over.
The film’s problem is that most of us have seen variations on this material in news reports. While we might not have seen this level of embedded access, we’ve seen enough to know what’s happening in Aleppo is distressing; Netflix’s The White Helmets is 40 minutes long, which feels about right. Some viewers will wonder if they need to spend 100 minutes seeing it all again.
Fayyad’s protagonists are engaging. They are bound by a desire to never leave the city they love, even as it disintegrates around them, and we’re with them in every rescue, even if the similarity of all the footage distances us from the action. There’s no hope, we know how this is going to end, and even a life saved temporarily feels almost as sad as a life lost. Last Men in Aleppo is one of the most difficult documentaries you’ll see this year.
There are touching moments – a boy rescued from certain death under the rubble refuses to let his lifesaver leave the house, insisting he stay for coffee. The embarrassment of his saviour is beautiful to see. But even he knows that Aleppo is not a place for happiness or gratitude.
If one thing has altered in the 37 years since Willy Russell wrote Educating Rita, it’s that students now hold their tutors accountable. These days it costs on average over £5,000 per year for the kind of Open University course that Russell’s intellectually insatiable hairdresser Rita embarks upon; and time and again you wonder what sort of value for money she’s getting, since her supervisor, Frank, is so patently a tenured waste of space. It’s no surprise that the governing body eventually packs him off on gardening leave in Australia; rather, you wonder what took them so long?
To his credit, David Birrell does manage to flip Frank’s alcoholic self-pity into a form of inverted heroism. Accused of falling off the rostrum mid-lecture, he retorts: “Yes, but I went down talking and I was still talking when I got up again.” And it is fascinating to see the spark of engagement that periodically lights up his eyes when he springs to his bookshelves and withdraws the volume concealing a bottle of Famous Grouse.
It’s not often that this modest two-hander offers much to look at, yet Elizabeth Newman’s joint production with Derby theatre has an imposing visual impact – the scuffed parquet, mullioned windows and cracked leather of Ciaran Bagnall’s set enables you to view academia the way Rita sees it, as a kind of seductively erudite alternative universe. And it quickly becomes a cosmos with Jessica Baglow’s radiant Rita at its centre. She has, to use a non-academic term, quite a gob on her; her Pygmalion-esque initiation to the world of critical theory and wholefood bistros is a wonder to behold.
•At Octagon theatre, Bolton, until 11 February. Box office: 01204 520661. Then at Derby theatre, 17 February-11 March. Box office: 01332 593939.
In a strange turn of events, Russian PEN has dismissed Svetlana Alexievich’s decision to leave the freedom of speech organisation, saying she cannot quit because she has never been a member – prompting the Nobel prize winner to reveal photographic proof of her membership.
Russian PEN officials released a statement saying that despite Alexievich’s announcement on 11 January that she was leaving as an act of protest, the celebrated reportage author had never been a member of the centre.
Addressed to American PEN, the statement read: “The Nobel prize winner Svetlana Alexievich has never been a member of the Russian PEN, so her declaration of leaving it sounds bizarre.”
Alexievich announced that she was quitting the Russian branch of the worldwide group because of the writers’ centre’s “shameful” expulsion of journalist and activist Sergey Parkhomenko. She joined an exodus of 30 other writers, including bestselling crime novelist Boris Akunin and poet Lev Rubinstein, who left after Parkhomenko was accused by Russian PEN of “destroying it from within” and for “provocative” and “rude behaviour”. The writers leaving said Parkhomenko’s expulsion came after he criticised the organisation for not supporting Ukrainian film-maker Oleg Sentsov, who is serving 20 years in prison.
In response to Russian PEN’s statement, Alexievich released a picture of her carnet online, showing she has been a member of the organisation since 1995. In addition, a screenshot of Russian PEN’s online list of members from May 2016, published by Parkhomenko, also confirms Alexievich’s membership.
Alexievich told the Guardian: “I think … Russian PEN is made out of really old people who don’t have an easy relationship with technology. They thought that if they excluded me from the [online members’] list I would disappear. They forgot that the internet stores everything.”
The author said that the Russian PEN scandal reflects the generally increased authoritarianism and “new patriotism” in Russia. “This is the regime’s genius way of undermining democratic, civil society from within – by putting their own members in all organisations.
“That’s the mood today. This so-called ‘new patriotism’ is a frightening phenomenon. I have lost many friends because I don’t support [Russia’s invasion of] Crimea … I’m instantly called a Russophobe, whereas they say of themselves: ‘We are Statalists, we are for Great Russia.’
“When I got out of the centre and said that the administration conducted themselves in a cowardly manner and that they are serving the government, and that this only happened this way in Stalin’s times, someone commented: ‘Svetlana, we do not lick the boot of the government, we admire its greatness and power, that finally a Great Russia has taken shape.’”
But Putin’s “new patriotism” was also sparking a backlash among intellectuals, Alexievich said: “This is the first time in the post-Soviet space when such a large number of writers said what they think without fearing the government.”
Russia’s PEN centre was established in 1989 as part of International PEN, a non-profit organisation of writers with 145 centres around the world.
Jennifer Clement, president of PEN International, said: “PEN’s charter makes it incumbent on members to oppose arbitrary censorship as well as deliberate falsehood and distortion of facts. These ideals are particularly important in times when critical and dissenting voices become the target of those in power.
“In recent weeks Svetlana Alexievich, Lyudmila Ulitskaya, Lev Rubenstein and a number of other Russian PEN members have renounced their membership in their centre because their calls for the freedom of film-maker Oleg Sentsov were opposed by the board … Sentsov is currently serving a 20-year sentence in Siberia, after being tried by a closed military court. We fully support Russian writers who, at a time where space for free expression is shrinking, have the courage to stand for the freedom of others and are following these developments closely. Sentsov should be freed immediately and allowed to return home to his family.”
Ewan McGregor cancelled an interview on Good Morning Britain on Tuesday in protest at Piers Morgan’s comments about the women’s marches which took place around the world on Saturday. Our readers have been debating his decision and discussing what impact it may have.
You can expand the discussion and join in by clicking the links on the comments, below.
All credit to Mr. McGregor for his willingness to live by his principles rather. The unctuous Mr. Morgan is someone I wouldn't want to spend any time with even if he hadn't said things about the women's march that I find so objectionable. He's just as entitled to his opinion as Mr. McGregor, or anyone else, is. But Mr. McGregor certainly isn't obliged publicly suffer a fool just to promote a new film.
For those saying McGregor should have gone on the show and argued his point: if he did that, people would have tuned in to watch, and the GMB bosses would have been reassured that their choice to hire Piers Morgan was a good one: he's bringing in the ratings. However, if an A-list actor refuses to appear on the show due to Morgan's presence, then the GMB producers get a very different message about Morgan's value.
It's perfectly reasonable of McGregor, regardless of his politics, Morgan's intense desire to be the story has totally tainted him as host of a breakfast telly show - he is the elephant in his own room.
And those saying McGregor should just do his job - should his job be having an argument with the alt right's creepy sad sack uncle? It's not like Morgan was suggesting he'd put politics aside.
(Also worth noting that the way this story has blown up will probably do more for the film's PR than a single telly appearance)
Refusing to talk to someone about a film because you have different views from them is a bit of a poor life choice. I know people with all kinds of political beliefs. Refusing to talk about football, or play pool, or go running, or have a pint etc with the ones I disagree with would just be silly. It's a sad aspect of modern life that many people seek to surround themselves exclusively with people they agree with and whose views they deem to be 'right'.
I like McGregor as an actor, but the cynic in me sees this as a bit of a PR stunt.
Very unprofessional of Ewan to let Piers's journalistic views expressed on a subject totaly not related to why Ewan was due to appear on the show, and in an etirely different medium and format for him to renege on his commitments to appear on the show, which i'm sure his fans were looking forward to, and to cancel a prior agreed upon booking at the last hour.
He should 'allow' other opinions? I wasn't aware he was stopping Morgan having an opinion, he's just saying he finds it offensive and isn't going to help his career by appearing on his show. Like many people Morgan needs to learn that freedom of speech does not mean freedom from consequences.
Good for Ewan. He's a world citizen first, what he does for a living is irrelevant. The vast majority of people marching on Saturday were not there for 'political' reasons. Whether DT is a Democrat or a Republican doesn't matter - he's the President of the United States who has clearly demonstrated through his past actions that being a 'celebrity' means he can assault women with impunity. He has openly declared he will take away the funding for Planned Parenthood and one of his first actions on Saturday was to deny foreign aid to countries that use it give help and advice to women on birth control - even those countries where women are in constant fear of being raped and where there is no point reporting this to the police. If Piers Morgan continues to defend DT's words and actions against women, then I hope that other 'celebrities' will also boycott GMB. I don't watch the programme because of him.
Brilliant move by McGregor.
Deny Morgan the attention he craves...post a single tweet explaining why...then leave Morgan to seethe all day while attempting to respond to every negative thing written about him on Twitter.
Beautiful.
No doubt that many will try to paint this as a spurious freedom of speech/freedom of political opinion attack on poor, little Piers but if Ewan did leave on political grounds, and not just that he couldn't stomach Morgan and his dribbling sycophancy, then Ewan was providing the balance.
His non-showing was 10 minutes out of one show on one day. The rest of the time, Morgan has the very big megaphone that is 'Good Morning Britain' to pontificate and fill time until the next advert break on just about anything. Today was when there was a finally a vague gesture towards someone finally figuratively wagging an index finger in his fat, gormless, self-satisfied face and telling him to shut up. Everything will be back to normal tomorrow.
Plans for a new Museum of London on the site of derelict Smithfield market buildings have received a £180m boost by the City and the mayor.
The City of London Corporation announced it would give £110m towards the project’s £250m cost. The mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, also pledged £70m.
Khan said the museum would be a jewel in London’s crown. “From the outset of my mayoralty, I pledged to make culture a core priority and I’m proud that this is the biggest ever cultural investment made by any mayor of London to date,” he said.
“The world’s greatest city deserves the world’s greatest museum, which is why I’m delighted to announce £70m of funding for the new Museum of London.”
The museum was established in 1976 and tells the capital’s story from 450,000BC to the present.
It has more than 6m objects and is held in huge regard but has had a longstanding problem: location. It is housed above a busy roundabout near the Barbican and can be difficult to find unless you know where you are going. It also desperately needs more space.
The plan is to move it to West Smithfield, next to the new transport hub being created at Farringdon because of Crossrail.
The new building would save what are the last remaining derelict Victorian structures in central London and give the museum 8,000sq m (86,000sq ft) of permanent gallery space and 1,500sq m of temporary exhibition space.
Using a design by architects Stanton Williams and Asif Khan, the plan is to retain much of the fabric of the original market buildings. The museum entrance would be filled with light, architects say, because of a “landmark dome” while spiral escalators would go down to a vast underground chamber housing the galleries.
The museum hopes it will double its number of annual visitors from 1 million to 2 million.
Mark Boleat, the chairman of the City’s policy and resources committee, said: “It is widely recognised that the current building at London Wall does not allow the museum to expand and flourish, and that the former market buildings are in a poor state of repair.
“The approval of this significant contribution makes good business sense and is a major step forward towards the creation of a new Museum of London, both iconic in design and unparalleled in the way in which it tells the capital’s vibrant history.”
The museum’s director, Sharon Ament, said the pledges were “fantastic news” which provided a springboard for the fundraising drive.
“Working with our design team we can now move forward confidently with detailed plans for the new museum and remain firmly on target to open the new museum in 2022.”
The museum hopes to make its planning application in 2018.
The departure of the Museum of London from the London Wall site would then free up the area for a proposed new concert hall, a new home for the London Symphony Orchestra under Sir Simon Rattle. That plan is still a long way off with Rattle last week acknowledging it was an if, not a when.
Reality may be stranger than fiction, but fiction has managed to predict some of the strangest turns of our “post-fact” age. In the week that Donald Trump was inaugurated as the president of the US, Sinclair Lewis’s It Can’t Happen Here was republished – the plot of which resonates with the rise of Trump.
With eerie prescience, Lewis told the story of Buzz Windrip – demagogue, chancer and political conman of the highest order – who travels from the margins of politics to be swept to power by popular vote.
But though Lewis’s main character bears the most obvious resemblance to Trump, his novel is not the only dystopian fiction to predict the awkward political realities of 2017. Philip K Dick’s The Man in the High Castle imagines an alternative America in which Germany won the second world war – a cautionary tale about the dangers of complacency in the face of fascism that also feels uncomfortably relevant.
More recent but no less prescient is Philip Roth’s 2004 novel The Plot Against America. A close second to Lewis’s It Can’t Happen Here in the literary canon foretelling the rise of Trump, Roth’s novel upends history so that multimillionaire aviator Charles Lindbergh beats Franklin D Roosevelt in the race to the White House. Lindbergh is portrayed, like Trump, as an admirer of brutal foreign dictators. He is also suspected of being blackmailed by a foreign power, Nazi Germany, that has meddled in the presidential election – allegations that might sound familiar.
But in the latest issue of the New Yorker, Roth denied Lindbergh was a prototype for new president, for whom he had only harsh words. “Trump is just a con artist,” he told the magazine by email. Instead, the writer often proclaimed the US’s greatest living novelist pointed to a 150-year-old classic: Herman Melville’s The Confidence-Man.
Described by Roth as a “darkly pessimistic, daringly inventive novel”, Melville’s final novel “could just as well have been called The Art of the Scam”. Melville writes of a group of passengers travelling by steamboat along the Mississippi and their encounters with a mysterious conman. Published on 1 April 1857, the day on which the book is set, the book begs the question “what do you trust?” – a message Trump’s press secretary Sean Spicer may be contemplating before his next bruising encounter with the media.
Stuart Kelly, author of The Book of Lost Books, said that rather than turning to the obvious literary dystopias such as George Orwell’s 1984 or Aldous Huxley’s Brave New World to discover how a reality TV star became the leader of the free world, readers should rifle through back issues of 2000AD, especially John Wagner’s Judge Dredd strips. “I’m particularly fond of the satirical sections … the criminalisation of sugar, competitive ugliness competitions.”
The populace in Judge Dredd lives in thrall to whatever craze is just taking off, filling their leisure time watching reality TV shows to relish in their exploitation and ridicule of contestants.
For those looking for a read with fewer pictures, Edward Bellamy’s 1888 classic Looking Backward is often cited as a futuristic novel that predicted the contemporary age. As well as debit cards and telephone cables to distribute entertainment into the home, Looking Backward features a prototype internet.
But as Kelly pointed out, Bellamy gets as much wrong as he gets right: his US is a co-operative socialist utopia, with a functioning welfare system and Finnish-style “basic income”. It is a long way from a world in which Obamacare is being dismantled.
Bellamy’s faults raise the chief problem with dystopian fiction: it often gets as much wrong as it gets right. Search all day in a library and you are bound to find a book that, whether utopia or dystopia, matches present reality with uncanny clarity. But like religious texts, the ability of fiction to predict the future is as much about modern readers’ interpretations as the intention of the writer, as Jess Harrison, Sinclair Lewis’s editor at Penguin Classics, points out.
Citing Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein and MP Shiel’s The Purple Cloud as examples of books as relevant to our age as they were to their initial readers, Harrison says: “These books are classics because they can bear multiple rereadings, and somehow always speak to the present in new ways.”
EM Forster’s short story The Machine Stops is a case in point. Set in a future where humanity has been forced to live underground, a giant machine provides for all needs, and, though travel is permitted, few undertake it because everything one needs can be brought to the door.
In what could be interpreted as a proto-social media, communication is led through messaging and video conferencing, and the only activity is the sharing of ideas and knowledge. In the story, the collapse of the Machine brings the collapse of civilisation and, along with it, the revelation that humankind needs nature more than technology. As conceived, the story was a quaint critique of industrialisation; read with modern eyes, Forster seems to predict our dependence on the internet.
Only in one case does a character’s voice ring through the decades with the same message intended by his creators. That character is Nigel Molesworth, the hero of Down With Skool and Lewis’s stablemate at Penguin Classics. His insight from 1950s boarding school St Custard’s is as relevant today as it was when first uttered. “Every skool hav a resident buly who is fat and roll about the place clouting everybode,” noted the schoolboy creation of Geoffrey Willans and Ronald Searle. And who, looking at the news reports, would not cry with Nigel’s brother Molesworth 2: “Reality is so unspeakably sordid it make me shudder.”
Is it a crime documentary? A satire of prurient crime documentaries? A drama? A piece of avant garde theatre? Casting JonBenét is all of these, and a brilliant original in multiple dimensions. The raw material of the unsolved 1996 murder of six-year-old US child pageant beauty queen JonBenét Ramsey is twisted and turned to fit dozens of different conspiracy theories.
Australian director Kitty Green repeats the trick she used in her excellent 2015 short The Face of Ukraine: Casting Oksana Baiul – holding auditions for a drama that may or may not exist. Various hopefuls try out to play JonBenét, her parents, her brother, the police chief and a sinister paedophile. Their auditions are occasionally played for laughs: we don’t know why, but one police chief wannabe explains his whipping tactics for rough sex in great detail. Those auditioning to play the brother try hitting a watermelon as hard as they can, unleashing their inner psychopaths.
Mostly, the auditions are a chance for the actors, who appear to be locals with detailed and enthusiastic knowledge of the case, to profess their pet theories about what happened to JonBenét. The film is a Netflix Original, and although every statement made is based on publicly available information, the platform’s lawyers must have had lengthy fun assessing how close some wilder theories come to libel.
However, this isn’t really a film in search of a definitive truth – it’s a deliberate provocation to the conventional notion of truth in the age of media frenzies over salacious crime. There are only opinions, and facts are pliable – a very pertinent theory considering the current news agenda. Green has some fun with the multiple personalities individuals play. The credits include a long list of roles such as “John Ramsey/John Ramsey Auditionee/Himself”. Many of the actors seem convinced this was a sex crime, and there’s a smart critical undercurrent about the sexualisation of young girls in small-town America, culminating in a daring final scene that features a surreal and garish performance by the title character.
The casting of JonBenét herself is a very small part of the film. The various JonBenéts are most noticeable through their ear-piercing screams – ready yourself for them. The film is more about all the auditioning parents, whose voices build to a cacophonous roar of judgmental ideas, faux concern, over-sharing, and schlocky performances. It is a documentary that seems to have an audacious set piece every five minutes. It places the parental couples in ever more strange situations, but the best is saved for last. A long montage features every possible configuration of Mother, Father, Daughter and Son in a large studio space. Some of them are sleeping, some are arguing, some are comforting. Every theory about JonBenét’s murder is played out simultaneously. It’s far too much to process, and it’s utterly magnificent.
Green appears to be having great fun, and it’s very exciting that she’s been given the budget and licence to make such an experimental piece of work for such a large audience. The film may anger some people: there are ethical discussions to be had about taking private grief and turning it into an intellectual and artistic game without (presumably) the consent of all the real people concerned. It’s also unclear how aware the actors are of the final shape that the film they’re taking part in will take. But really, its provoking of complicated internal debates about the nature of art and our appetite for true crime is what makes Casting JonBenét stay with you for a long time after watching.
This year’s Sundance has some important political and current affairs documentaries, but this one must be the most progressive and exciting one showing here, existing in a narrative universe all of its own.
Ewan McGregor has refused to appear as booked on breakfast news show Good Morning Britain after realising it was co-hosted by Piers Morgan. The actor, who is currently promoting the long-awaited Trainspotting sequel, T2, had been due to appear on Tuesday morning, 24 January, but dropped out at the last minute in protest at Morgan’s comments about the women’s marches which took place around the world on Saturday.
The actor tweeted:
Was going on Good Morning Britain, didn't realise @piersmorgan was host. Won't go on with him after his comments about #WomensMarch
Morgan hit back by accusing McGregor of narrow-mindedness and ideas above his station.
Sorry to hear that @mcgregor_ewan - you should be big enough to allow people different political opinions. You're just an actor after all.
On the show, Morgan added: “Sorry that Ewan McGregor’s not here. He couldn’t bear the thought of being on the sofa with me because he doesn’t agree with me about the women’s march.
“I have to agree with what an actor thinks about a particular issue because they’re actors. And as we know actors’ views are more important than anybody else’s.”
In an article in the Daily Mail on Monday, Morgan – who has proudly trumpeted his friendship with the new US president – took aim at what he saw as “the more repellent side of feminism: the vile, crude, man-hating, violent, nasty side”.
The likes of Madonna and Ashley Judd who spearheaded protests, wrote Morgan, “whipped [the crowd] into a man-hating frenzy”. “Ladies, I love you,” he concluded. “But if you let the nasty women win, you lose.”
Over the weekend, McGregor tweeted his support for the protesters, saying he was “so proud to see this extraordinary power”.
I'm with you in spirit today women of the world. My daughters are marching. I'm so proud to see this extraordinary power.
Later on Tuesday, Morgan hit back at the actor in another article in the Daily Mail, accusing him of unprofessionalism and cowardice in not appearing on the programme regardless of their divergent political views.
In the piece, Morgan called McGregor “a narrow-minded, stupendously self-aggrandising, anti-democratic little twerp” and said his stance on the women’s march was hypocritical given his support of director Roman Polanski, who fled America after serving only a portion of his jail sentence for the statutory rape of a 13-year-old girl.
McGregor’s self-righteousness, said Morgan, echoed “Meryl Streep’s extraordinarily pompous and elitist anti-Trump speech at the recent Golden Globes”.
The actor has yet to respond. T2 Trainspotting, a followup to Danny Boyle’s classic 21 years on, has received broadly positive reviews and opens around the country on Friday.
Roman Polanski has stepped down from presiding over next month’s César awards, France’s equivalent of the Oscars, after his nomination to the prestigious role sparked outrage, a 61,000-signature petition and calls to boycott the event.
The Franco-Polish film director, 83, is wanted in the US on charges of raping a a 13-year-old in Los Angeles in 1977.
On Tuesday, his lawyer told Agence France-Presse he would not preside over the Césars because of the “unjustified” row his role had caused.
Hervé Temime said the controversy had “profoundly saddened” the director of Chinatown and Rosemary’s Baby. “However, in order not to disturb the César ceremony, which should focus on the cinema and not on the appointment of the president, Roman Polanski has decided not to accept the invitation.”
Polanski pleaded guilty in 1977 to one count of unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor, or statutory rape, and as part of the plea bargain underwent psychiatric evaluation and served 42 days in prison. But in 1978 he became convinced a judge was going to quash the deal and hand him a hefty prison sentence, and fled to France.
Last month, Polanski defeated an attempt by the US to extradite him from his native Poland, telling reporters: “I’ll finally be able to feel safe in my own country.”
French actor and director Gilles Lellouche told Le Parisien the scandal over the Césars was “absurd”.
“In France we create rows about everything and it’s killing us. I believe we should be logical,” he said. “Polanski has lived in France for 40 years. The accusations against him predate his arrival. During those years he has made films! It was back then he should have been banned from living or working here.”
Another French actor, François Berléand, agreed: “I’m not defending what Polanski did 40 years ago, but he’s a man I profoundly respect and he has his role to play in the Césars.”
Feminist group Osez Le Féminisme (Dare to be Feminist) had called for a demonstration outside the Césars ceremony, organised by the Academy of Cinema Arts and Techniques, on Saturday evening.
A petition claimed Polanski had enjoyed “scandalous protection” in France while being wanted for the rape of achild in America. His nomination as César president was, it said, “an insult to women and to the suffering they endure, an insult to rape victims … tens of thousands of them every year”.
Temime said the row had been “stoked by completely false information”. He added that the rape victim had appealed to the American authorities to drop the case.
France’s women’s rights minister, Laurence Rossignol, said she had been shocked by the decision to nominate Polanski.
“I’m surprised and shocked that a rape case in a man’s life counts for so little,” she told French radio. “It’s a choice that shows an indifference to the charges against him on the part of those who decided to nominate him as president of the Césars.
“It’s saying it’s not a big deal for the organisers, that Roman Polanski is wanted in the United States for having committed the rape … of a child of 13 years.”
The nomination showed an “attitude of normality with regard to rape … what feminists call the rape culture in which we are existing”, Rossignol said.
The culture minister, Audrey Azoulay, has refused to comment on the row.




Born 100 years ago, Margaret Barry knew how to entertain a crowd. She had to: she left home at 16 with a bicycle and a banjo and sang her way to the Albert Hall via Cork street corners and the Irish pubs of north London. She was fearless, toothless (literally), a tiny balladeer with a colossal voice and tenacious soul in the way she sang, smoked, charmed and drank Guinness. She was dubbed “queen of the Gypsies” by a promoter and the moniker stuck, despite the fact that she wasn’t a Gypsy at all. She told a good tale and didn’t let details get in the way.
So I wonder what Barry would have made of She Moved Through the Fair, the low-key, eulogistic theatre piece co-written by veteran folk critic (and Guardian contributor) Colin Irwin and Irish singer Mary McPartlan. Possibly, she would have found it touching if a little tame. From one corner of the stage Irwin reads out her life story in a demure, fond, beautifully researched and endearingly un-thespian delivery. Actor Ruby Campbell gives a spry performance as Barry and other bit parts, while John Wheeler is more laboured as the men who crossed her path: Alan Lomax, who “discovered” her; David Attenborough, who put her on telly; Cliff Michelmore, who interviewed her there. A four-piece band underpins it all nicely: McPartlan can’t summon Barry’s raw power but brings simple poignancy to songs including Goodnight Irene, Loving Hannah and Freeborn Man. A musical highlight is John Carty, a fiddler of unfussy grace and immense style.
“This is all dance music,” joked Andy Cutting the night before, knowing full well nobody was likely to crack out the steps to an obscure triple-time hornpipe or 18th-century slip jig. Leveret – it means young hare – is the finest of traditional English folk today: a trio of poise and subtle gesture, of deft layering, graceful swing and gorgeous understatement. Constituent members Cutting (button accordion), Rob Harbron (concertina) and Sam Sweeney (fiddle/viola) are all well known from other configurations, but Leveret brings out the best in each of them. Sweeney’s playing, especially, has refined a lot since his Bellowhead days and he weaves around the reedy textures with a deft, light touch.
The band’s first public gig in Scotland was one of the mellowest options for a Saturday night at Celtic Connections, and one of the classiest. As on their two albums, they played old dance tunes unearthed from antique folk compendiums – with names such as Glory of the Sun and Purlongs (“the distance covered by a cat in a certain amount of time?” suggested Sweeney) – and their own new material. Some of the top tunes belong to Harbron: The Road to Poynton, for example, or the noble Dundas (sadly not on the Glasgow setlist). Cutting is the anchor, though, with his peerless French-Anglo harmonies, tugging rhythms and bittersweet fast waltzes. A third album is on the way, but catch Leveret live for full convivial immersion.
Inspiring role models are important and I was lucky enough to have one as a godmother. The traveller, journalist and biographer Lesley Blanch, who died in the south of France aged 103, was as good as they get.
Lesley and my mother, Gael Elton Mayo, met in New York in 1951 through their Russian husbands. After Gael died of cancer in 1992, Lesley became home from home. A jungly tunnel wound up to the front door of her small, pink villa overlooking the Mediterranean bay of Garavan, on the French border with Italy.
A small figure radiating energy and the scent of jasmine, she remained alert and open-minded. I will never forget how she peered, fascinated, at my laptop asking about websites. “I want one!” she exclaimed, blue eyes sparkling. Her website went live in 2006, the year before she died.
Everything about Lesley was unconventional and romantic: her writing, her tumultuous love life, her sartorial glamour and mischievous humour. She was erudite without being stuffy or pompous. Fearless and headstrong, she could be infuriating and grandiose. An internationalist, she opened windows on the world and was passionate about all things Russian and oriental. I treasure Alexander Pushkin’s The Golden Cockerel and Other Stories, adapted by James Reeves, which she gave to me as a child. To be with her was to enter many different worlds.
During a visit in 2001, Lesley was fretting about her introduction to a reprint of Isabelle Eberhardt’s Journals. I deciphered her graceful writing and typed it up on my laptop. This led to my helping with her memoirs. But Lesley died before we could finish our work. I had promised that I would get her book published. Daunted but undeterred, in between editing jobs for publishers, I knitted together fragments of reminiscences written at different times, to capture the essence of her rich and rewarding life.
What kind of reputation and lasting achievements are left after we die? In our I-want-it-now society, do dead authors and their lives even matter? We do not exist without context and history. Lesley turned her back on Edwardian suburbia, becoming a working woman at a time when few women had careers. We still live in a male-dominated culture, so her success is important.
I reread Lesley’s most enduring works: The Sabres of Paradise: Conquest and Vengeance in the Caucasus, The Wilder Shores of Love – about four 19th-century women who travelled East – and Journey Into the Mind’s Eye: Fragments of an Autobiography. I was struck by how prescient she was, attempting to bridge the west and east. Her dramatic storytelling brings alive those places that obsessed her: Russia, the Sahara, Turkey, Afghanistan.
Editing Lesley’s memoirs was frustrating. She had been on the frontline of numerous cultural innovations. Much had died with her, untold. During my last visit, she began to open up about the family friend only ever referred to as “the Traveller”. (He seduced her on the Train Bleu.) It turned out he was Theodore Komisarjevsky. Chiefly remembered for his staging of Chekhov, and a season of scandalous productions at Stratford – Lesley designed costumes for two of them – he brought director’s theatre to Britain. She left me hanging with the words: “Peggy Ashcroft took him off me.” Komisarjevsky became a talismanic figure; his romantic hold never lessened.
Lesley’s subsequent 18-year marriage with diplomat-novelist, Romain Gary, heralded the permissive 1960s. She accepted his infidelities. He let her go off on her travels to research her books, not obliging her to stay home. By the time they reached Hollywood in 1956, they were at the peak of their writing careers. Gary then left her for the young actress Jean Seberg. Lesley travelled back east to Siberia, Outer Mongolia, Turkey, Iran, Samarkand, Afghanistan and Egypt.
I loved Lesley’s chutzpah. She never apologised for who she was. She survived failure and endured numerous knockbacks, including a fire that destroyed her house and most of its contents in 1994: she had it rebuilt. When I was setting up BookBlast Ltd in 1997 she cheered me on and told me to be the best version of myself. Her Arabic sayings are a comfort on dull days, a favourite being: “Enjoy this world, for it may be the only Paradise you will ever know.”
The patterns of my life were forever changing, forming and re-forming, adapting and developing, a “perpetuum mobile” of great journeys, biting poverty, nomadic uprootings and agitating romantic interludes. All these different states of being produced a number of different women, among whom I occasionally recognised something of myself, with the fundamental self lurking beneath the latest facade. Then something would happen and the climate would change, the pace quicken, and I would be off again towards some other facet of living and see another self emerging beneath the now rather worn facade. It was a restless life. Indeed, much as the gypsy foretold.
Yet beneath all these alter-ego ladies that slid easily from one state to another – scatterbrain teenager, bookworm, romantic Miss, would-be scholar, painter, breadwinner, journalist, mistress, housewife, traveller and traveller again – there lurked yet another self, some suppressed gene that caused me to long for a house with its land and a roof and rooms, in which to take root. All of my other selves still longed for distant shores, for the eternal Elsewhere, but one self still yearned to unpack and stay put within four walls.
The house in which I now live has gradually acquired subtle qualities which defy or evade strictures of time, distance, or substance. Which is just as well, for at the age of 100, one might otherwise be described as washed up on the shores of time.
For a generation raised on therapy and the assiduous pursuit of emotional “truth”, there is something disconcerting about the contrast between Blanch’s intensely sexy femininity and her quasi-masculine ability to compartmentalise emotion. Sooner or later, no doubt, a formal biography will dismantle the rococo stage set on which she chose to present herself, to reveal a reality that is bleaker, but not necessarily closer to the truth.
Blanch wrote that “learning how to deal with pain is the most important thing in life”, and this volume, edited with affection and grace by De Chamberet, is a deliciously readable monument to a writer who combined a steely resilience and capacity for hard work with an elegant frivolity and a voracious appetite for love, beauty and adventure. – Jane Schilling, the Telegraph
On The Wilder Shores of Love: A Bohemian Life by Lesley Blanch edited by Georgia de Chamberet is published by Virago, priced £10.99. It is available from the Guardian bookshop priced £9.34.
Many writers are drawn to boxing, though often with a tendency to express the milquetoast’s awe at the fighter’s power, or to gloss over the bloodiness and pain of the sport – to see it as primal spectacle.
Fat City is no such book. It will not make you feel like taking up boxing; nor, unless you are unusually morbid, will it make you want to watch a fight. “Backed into a corner, he was attempting to clinch when a blinding blow crushed his nose,” etc.
First published in 1969, and set a decade earlier, Fat City is Leonard Gardner’s only novel. He has written short stories good enough for the Paris Review – which means very good indeed – as well as scripts for NYPD Blue. The film adaptation of Fat City was directed by John Huston, well and faithfully, in 1972. You have the feeling that the anodyne and cliche-packed sequence of Rocky films was launched partly to get the sour taste of Huston’s film out of Hollywood’s mouth.
The book is, of course, not just about boxing, but about what it was like to live in Stockton, California, at the end of the 1950s. Life there is not much fun now – only 70 miles from San Francisco, but a galaxy away in terms of glamour, Stockton is ranked among the 10 most dangerous cities in the US – but it was even worse then. The novel shows us a world of dingy bars, of “cadaverous” Chinese pork-slinging cooks, of first girlfriends married because their loss of virginity meant pregnancy, and of living in hotel rooms that make the soul weep.
Shoes squeaked by outside the door. Reviewing old certainties and mistakes, Tully gazed down at the magazines. Finally he reached for the Modern Screen and propped himself up with his head between the rods of the bed. On the magazine’s cover was an extravagantly smiling starlet in a bathing suit with a pencilled dot over each breast and a scribbled cleft at the crotch. The coughing went on across the hall. It was time to change hotels.
Tully is a 29-year-old ex-boxer, who decides one day that he has still got it. A quick trip to the local gym, where he is out-fought by an opponent 10 years his junior, puts that notion to rest for a while. The youngster, meanwhile, tries to go professional: he is the one who gets his schnozz flattened in the quote above.
And that, basically, is the message of the book: that if you follow your dreams, they can end up spread all over your face. Tully tops – or picks – onions to make ends meet: that doesn’t sound fun, either. Then again, we learn that in the hierarchy of casual agricultural labour in mid-20th-century California, topping onions ranks above lettuce-thinning or pea-picking. “I’m an onion‑topping fool,” says one over-enthusiast, more than once.
As you may have worked out, the title is bitterly ironic. Fat City, in African-American slang, was a place, like Cockayne, of mythical bounty; Gardner saw the phrase scrawled on the wall of a San Francisco tenement and decided that was the title for him. The author, himself Stockton-born, knew whereof he wrote; and he writes well, his book becoming over the years – it gets reprinted every so often – a touchstone for young Americans keen on appreciating pure, clean prose. How could one improve on “vivid blue slacks the color of burning gas”? (American spelling is retained throughout: good.) The description itself flares up like burning gas, because the rest of the book doesn’t often turn to outstanding metaphor. And that was what trousers were like in those days – you get the impression that they countered a life lived in harsh and unforgiving monochrome.
• Fat City is published by Pushkin. To order a copy for £7.64 (RRP £8.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
Awards season is upon us. With the Golden Globes all wrapped up, the National Television Awards looming and the Baftas still to come, British television shows are due to be showered with more gold than a Russian hotel mattress. But while TV has changed immeasurably in recent years, the categories in which performers are nominated remain broadly the same as they were two decades ago – best newcomer, serial drama, daytime – and there’s a lot of overlap between the ceremonies. What’s needed is a whole new set of categories to reflect the niche challenges of modern broadcasting…
It is said only one in 50 UK actors earns more than £20K a year, but certain shows work hard to redress this statistic. Traditionally, this distinction belonged to stalwart dramas such as Silent Witness, or to US programmes in need of multiple villains. More recently, Game Of Thrones has – through sheer attrition – made plain its determination to give every actor in these isles something to put on his or her CV. But the favourite this year has to be The Crown, which won big at the Golden Globes. With its huge cast and constant need for bodies to fatten up a royal procession or fill out a flag-waving crowd, this series probably employs enough formerly resting actors to staff a 19th-century soap factory. If you need an explanation for the great department store Santa shortage of 2016, look no further.
The Games Of Thrones character played by Kit Harington has snapped up this award every year for the last four years running. This year, Jon Snow the newsreader had every reason to think he was in with a shout, after the other Jon Snow got killed at the end of season five. But he probably wasn’t reckoning with the possibility of a season six resurrection. Maybe next year.
Veep retained its place as the sharpest and most scabrous satire of the US executive branch, right up until Donald Trump became president of the United States. Now it looks like The West Wing. There is simply no point in trying to take the piss out politics any more; all we can do is watch the real thing, and cry a little. Someone should sell the idea to Amazon Prime, and call it Weep.
If you’re not still having nightmares about those racer snakes from Planet Earth II, it’s only because you lack the empathy to put yourself in the shoes of a baby iguana trying to get from rock A to rock B.
This award goes to a charming, clever romantic comedy that had everything going for it apart from its title: Scrotal Recall. The name was meant to underscore the premise (boy revisits past loves who may have contracted an STD from him) but most people assumed it was a show about defective testicles and avoided it. That might have been the end of it but the series rose again, on Netflix, under the rather more tasteful title of Lovesick. Extra credit is due for resisting the temptation to call it A La Recherche du Testicules Perdu.
While automation has led to unemployment in many professions, actors still play robots way more often than robots play actors. The second series of Humans deserves a mention here, but Westworld is now the biggest repository of dead-eyed-machine ensemble acting since Downton Abbey ended, and on Westworld you have to be able to do it naked.
To be presented each year by a different local tourism body, for outstanding achievement in discouraging visitors to a particular area, either by characterising it as unsafe, or depressing, or both. This year will likely see joint winners: Trapped (presented by Promote Iceland) and series two of Happy Valley (with scorn, from Calderdale council’s tourism team).
Some shows come to define a generation, only to come back later to redefine that generation in decidedly less flattering terms. Cold Feet returned to ITV after an impressive 13-year gap last year, catching up with its fans just in time to hold up a mirror to their own fractured middle-aged existences. Divorce, depression and financial difficulty: like you don’t get enough of that at home. Honourable mention to Gilmore Girls, for waiting almost as long.
Until recently, this was a deeply unfashionable discipline. Only newsreaders and documentary presenters address the camera directly; everybody else in factual programming looks off to one side, as if talking to an unseen producer. That’s partly what made Phoebe Waller-Bridge’s performance in Fleabag so unsettling: her character’s down-the-lens monologues were as terrifyingly intimate as they were funny. This technique is set to become so popular that next year this award will have to be recast as a punishment, complete with fine.
The National Television Awards is on Wednesday 25 January, 7.30pm, ITV
This is the last Shelf Life. I’ll miss having a space in which to press books on to complete strangers – even odd little books about nuns – and it has been intensely gratifying to hear which of my recommendations you’ve enjoyed (when a publisher emailed me to tell me how much his teenage daughter had liked Katherine by Anya Seton, I stood up and clapped my hands). I’ve relished, too, the suggestions some sent my way (thank you to everyone who did). But all columns run their course, and I must do other things.
What to offer up by way of a valedictory read? Right now, I’m in the middle of a novel that won’t come out until the summer, so that won’t do. Casting my eyes towards my groaning bookshelves, I can only think of the books I’ve loved nearly all my life, and to which I return again and again: Conan Doyle’s Sherlock Holmes stories (when I’m dying, I’ll probably ask the poor sod sitting by my bed to read The Adventure of the Speckled Band out loud), the poems of Philip Larkin, and the novels of Jane Austen, the Brontës, Charles Dickens, David Lodge and Nancy Mitford. But you probably already know all about them.
Something else, then. The most horribly enjoyable book I read during the period I’ve been writing this column was undoubtedly Chips: The Diaries of Sir Henry Channon, which was recommended to me – I’ll allow myself a massive namedrop in this, my final column – by the wondrous biographer, Selina Hastings. Chips Channon, in case you don’t know, was an American-born anglophile and major league snob, who married a Guinness and became the Conservative MP for Southend in 1935. His diaries are superbly gossipy: he knew (and occasionally slept with) everyone from Terence Rattigan to the Duke of Windsor. But he was also, before the war, an appeaser, mostly because he hoped Hitler would restore the German monarchy.
In August 1936, he attended a fabulous party hosted by Göring in Berlin. His account of this queasy-making fiesta is luridly gripping, but it will also, should you seek it out, provide some food for thought as politicians everywhere set about kissing the backside of the egregious Donald Trump.
‘Not in my wildest dreams did I think it would ever become a job,” says Mark Berry, the policeman’s son from Bolton who’s better known simply as Bez. “I’m forever grateful for it happening. Although it did take me years to own up to being a dancer.”
But a dancer he is, and has been since the day he first clambered up on stage with Happy Mondays, the band formed by some old schoolfriends. That was in 1985. Well, some time around then. Making a note of dates wasn’t much of a priority.
“I’d scored a lot of black microdots,” says Bez, who does remember his LSD hauls. “So me and Shaun [Ryder, Happy Mondays’ frontman] were tripping our heads off.” That wasn’t ideal, given that the then little-known band were about to record a performance for TV, supporting New Order at Manchester’s Haçienda club. “Shaun turned round and said, ‘I can’t go on, Bez! You’re gonna have to come on with me.’ So I ended up on stage tripping my nut off, shaking this maraca.”
Despite shaking the maraca so hard it left a wound in his hand, Bez’s impromptu performance was well received, notably by Factory Records boss Tony Wilson. “He said, ‘Who’s that kid on stage with you? You’ve got to have him again.’ From that moment on, I’ve always been a Happy Monday.”
Since then, plenty have scoffed and scratched their heads at Bez’s role. Ryder once recounted that Americans simply couldn’t understand Bez’s purpose: “That dude doesn’t do anything!” But the truth is, it’s hard to imagine Happy Mondays (and their continued crowd-pulling popularity) without their trademark freaky dancer. So is it possible that Bez, and music’s other select few who occupy a similar dancer/vibesman role, deserve a little more respect?
Martha Graham, the legendary American dancer and choreographer, once said: “Nobody cares if you can’t dance well. Just get up and dance. Great dancers are great because of their passion.” That certainly seems to be the model pursued by dancers with bands. It’s all about that passion, and the ability to communicate it.
Just ask Wojtek Dmochowski, who’s danced with the Blue Aeroplanes throughout the Bristol art rockers’ 35 years together. “I dance like a man possessed,” he says, with such enthusiasm you don’t doubt it. “Lots of energy, very expressive. You had that time when everyone was shoegazing and stood on the stage doing nothing. And that is just a really dull event.”
As Dmochowski says, it takes a special live band to mesmerise you purely with their music. (He remembers Television as one.) Plenty of others have to try a little harder. So, back in a time when only stadium acts had video screens and big production, having somebody bouncing about on stage meant the audience was more likely to follow suit.
“We’re middlemen between the band and the audience,” says Joel Gion, who’s played tambourine and maracas for Brian Jonestown Massacre since being invited on stage when the San Francisco psychedelic rockers played a party in his apartment building in 1994. “It’s like, ‘You can do this, look at me.”’
They are, in a sense, the exuberant everymen of the music world. What they do seems attainable to everyone in the crowd. Although that’s certainly not to say they don’t take their craft seriously. “You’re not just bumbling around,” insists Dmochowski. “I definitely thought I could add to the live experience, by expressing the music and the poetry, and make it much more dynamic and visual.”
Even Bez, a man who admits he doesn’t spend much time pondering the intricacies of his role, will explain, when pushed, that he’s “trying to portray the rebellious, fucked-up attitude of the ecstasy, acid generation”. And who’s to argue that he hasn’t achieved that over the last 30 years?
Indeed, Gion reveals Bez was a major inspiration when the Brian Jonestown Massacre were looking for somebody to take a similar role. “Initially, it was just, ‘Look at that loaded guy up there,’” he says. “I could just look good and feel good. I kind of saw it as performance art. But, as I got older, I started to feel like I needed to learn the craft more and become a proper percussionist.”
As far as Gion is concerned, “proper percussionist” isn’t a rock oxymoron. As he points out, when Bo Diddley started out, he didn’t have a drummer, he just had Jerome Green playing maracas. Tambourine, meanwhile, was a big part of the sound of everyone from the Byrds to the Beatles to Neil Diamond.
Not that everyone can fill the role of tambourine-playing dancer well. I ask Gion – who was introduced to a much wider audience via the award-winning 2004 rock documentary film Dig! – if he sometimes watches other bands and thinks they could do with someone dancing and playing tambourine. “Oh, I think the opposite,” he laughs. “After Dig! came out, everyone had one. Put a tambourine in their hand. Get up, you’ll be in the band. And they’re just standing there in the corner doing nothing.”
That said, when Gion decided to scratch his songwriting itch and embark on a well-received solo project in 2011, it’s telling that he recruited a tambourine/maraca player for his band. “She’s great,” he says. “She got it a lot quicker than I did. But then she’s not constantly loaded like I was.”
Gion, then, is in the rare position of knowing what it’s like to perform both as a dancer/percussionist and in a more conventional musician role. “It’s certainly more difficult to play guitar and sing at the same time,” he says. “It’s limiting in a certain way. When I’m with Brian Jonestown Massacre, I can just go into the zone.” Bez describes being on stage as, “an incredible feeling”, while Dmochowski calls it “my biggest passion in life”.
There’s also the fact that, despite being treated (and paid) as full members, dancers don’t have the responsibilities of their bandmates. On tour, Dmochowski would leave the rest of the Blue Aeroplanes sound-checking in airless venues, while he visited museums and galleries. And Bez has fond memories of Happy Mondays’ recording sessions. “They were like holiday breaks for me,” he says.
Little wonder the three men I speak to all seem very happy to still be doing what they do. At the age of 60, Dmochowski is bursting with excitement having just booked time off his work as an English teacher to tour with Blue Aeroplanes around the release of their new album.
And, with his own new album just completed, Gion is very content to continue dividing his time between solo work and Brian Jonestown Massacre. “I’m sitting so pretty right now,” he says. “I couldn’t be happier to still be in BJM, doing that and have people want me to do it. It’s a trip, man.”
Bez, meanwhile, has made a few changes since that Haçienda debut, three decades ago. No chemicals make it into his body these days: “I’ve not actually stopped taking drugs,” he clarifies, “but only if they’re organic will they get into my system now.”
He thinks he may also need to limit his non-dancing activities. “I played football for a United XI against Newcastle recently, and then did a show with the Mondays the weekend after. Man, my legs! My groin! I really struggled through that gig. I’m not as young as I used to be.”
But, at 54, Bez has no plans to hang up his maracas just yet. Nor does he have any regrets about a life spent twisting his melon, man. “It has been quite a rollercoaster ride,” he says, “but one that I’ve enjoyed. It’s changed my life in a permanent and positive way. In a funny sort of way, the ramshackle bunch known as the Happy Mondays were a lifesaver for me.”
Stacia BlakeDanced with: Spacerock titans Hawkwind.Notable for: Being an imposing 6ft 2in and performing her interpretive dance wearing little but luminescent paint. Last heard of: Working as a visual artist in her native Ireland.
Jed HoileDanced with: 80s synthpopper Howard Jones.Notable for: Bringing unsettling mime artistry to Top of the Pops.Last heard of: Organising drumming workshops, and appearing on Top of the Pops – The Story of 1983, explaining how he brought throwing off one’s mental chains to life.
Chas SmashDanced with: Madness, though he also took on “multi-instrumentalist” duties, occasional vocals, and wrote songs.Notable for: Dancing nuttily, and yelling “One step beyond!”, co-writing Our House, then for reconstituting Madness in 1992.Last heard of: Releasing a well-received solo album, A Comfortable Man, in 2015.
Barry MooncultDanced with: Party-starting baggy scamps Flowered Up.Notable for: Being London’s answer to Bez, while wearing a giant latex flower.Last heard of: Running an “exotic” nightclub in Thailand.
Cressa Danced with: Madchester heroes the Stone Roses. Notable for: Accompanying his Mancunian friends in their formative years and reputedly introducing Ian Brown to flared jeans. Last heard of: DJing at an after party following the Stone Roses’ Manchester shows last summer.
Hip-hop musical Hamilton and tours by Adele, U2 and Take That are among the latest must-see events to be seized upon by touts, hoovering up tickets at the expense of ordinary fans. But how do they get their tickets, is it legal and what can be done about it?
When tickets go on sale for an event – Adele at Wembley Stadium for instance – this is known as the primary market. If somebody who has a ticket decides to resell it, they are using the secondary market.
Usually this is done via one of the “big four” secondary ticketing websites, Viagogo, StubHub, GetMeIn and Seatwave. The latter two are owned by Ticketmaster, which is in turn owned by LiveNation, the world’s largest concert venue company.
While some fans use these sites because they have accidentally bought too many tickets or can no longer attend an event, secondary sites have become a haven for full-time ticket touts looking to trade tickets for a profit.
Some touts also own independent companies, specialising in particular areas such as theatre, front-row seats or corporate hospitality.
Who are the touts?
Some are former touts of the old school, who have migrated from pounding the pavement outside venues to become so-called “armchair” operators. Others are tech-savvy youngsters who have used their computer skills to latch on to a quick and easy way to make money. Many are based overseas.

How do they get tickets?
One popular method is to use multiple credit cards to buy as many tickets as possible when they go on sale. Some touts have super-fast internet connections that help them beat fans to the punch, while others multiply their chances of getting tickets by employing people to man the computers.
Some pay fan club fees to gain access to tickets. Others use bots, automated software designed to automatically harvest dozens of tickets within a matter of seconds.
Do secondary sites try to stop touts?
For the most part, no. Most secondary sites have a roster of major touts known as power sellers or brokers. Usually the website will employ several “account managers”, whose job it is to keep the touts happy and help them sell seats.
In some cases, the most powerful touts get paid in advance for tickets they are yet to sell, effectively short-term loans to help them ply their trade. Some resale sites also offer “broker tools” – software touts can use to manage their inventory of tickets.


Is ticket touting illegal?
There is no specific ticket touting offence but touts do risk falling foul of a number of laws designed to protect consumers.
Some experts believe that buying tickets for the purpose of reselling them at a profit breaches the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008. These state that nobody should masquerade as a consumer when they are in fact acting for the purposes of trade.

The Consumer Rights Act 2015 requires sellers to say who they are, publish contact details and list information such as the seat’s face value and its location. Until recently, when secondary websites were faced with a Competition and Markets Authority investigation, very few published this information. Many tickets are still advertised without it.
Are touts the only problem?
Far from it. Evidence has been mounting that some promoters and managers are funnelling tickets direct to the secondary sites without ever advertising them to touts or to ordinary fans.
What’s being done about it?
HM Revenue & Customs is looking into whether touts are declaring how much they make from the trade.
The Competition and Markets Authority has launched a separate inquiry into secondary ticketing, including whether touts are breaking the law by failing to disclose their contact details and information about the ticket when they advertise events on secondary sites.
MPs are also considering a specific criminal offence targeting the use of bots, automated software that some touts use to harvest the best tickets at the expense of fans. However, some in the industry believe the use of bots may already be covered by the Computer Misuse Act.
How can I avoid touts?
If you didn’t get tickets when they went on sale never fear, there are alternatives. For a start, ticketing companies often fail to mention that the first release of tickets will be followed by further staggered releases.
Another way to beat the touts is to use a service specifically designed to undermine their business. Companies such as Twickets, Vibe Tickets and Scarlet Mist offer a ticket return service for fans who have bought a ticket but genuinely cannot use it. The ticket will be sold at face value or less. Fans can also buy tickets through services such as Songkick, which works with artists to try to keep as many tickets as possible out of the hands of touts.
• This article was amended on 26 January to make it clear that Vibe Tickets and Scarlet Mist do not charge commission
The promotional copy of Sarah Pinborough’s Behind Her Eyes comes emblazoned with warnings not to trust the story and exhortations not to “give away that ending”. Thrillers come with a twist – that’s why we love them – and much of the fun of reading the genre comes from trying to second-guess the author. It’s rare to be so challenged before the reading even begins, however – “a tenner says you’ll never guess this ending”, promises the cover – and I begin reading Behind Her Eyes determined to crack what its publisher has labelled #WTFthatending.
Pinborough’s story is told from two perspectives, neither of which we are sure is reliable. There’s Adele, the beautiful, fragile wife of psychiatrist David. She loves her husband – “I will never fall out of love with him. I won’t give that up. I can’t” – and hopes their fresh start in London will mend both the cracks in their marriage and a past about which we get only hints. Then there’s Louise, a single mother who only discovers that the man she meets and kisses in a bar, David, is going to be her new boss when he’s given a tour of her workplace, along with his wife.
Louise is easier to warm to: friendly, kind, hideously embarrassed by her actions but still drawn to David. But she has her own secrets – what are the origins of the night terrors that send her wandering through her home? And why is she getting to know both David and Adele without explaining what she’s doing to both parties? “I don’t want it to stop. That’s the honest, unpleasant truth. I want to have my cake and eat it.” She’s not as straightforward as she seems.
Adele, meanwhile, is more intriguing with every chapter, as her past is slowly revealed, and glimpses of the truth at the heart of her marriage are given (at one point, David is described, brilliantly, as “a walking Agatha fucking Christie plot”). “The past is as ephemeral as the future – it’s all perspective and smoke and mirrors. You can’t pin it down, can you?… The truth is different to different people,” muses Adele.
“Questions, questions, questions,” ponders Louise. “It seems that ever since David and Adele came into my life I’ve been filled with questions. They’re like weeds in water. Every time I think I can swim away another one tangles around my legs to drag me back down.”
Behind Her Eyes is a canny move from Pinborough, the hitherto fantasy/horror/YA novelist jumping aboard the bandwagon for twisty psychological thrillers set in the domestic space. When the first of her twists is revealed, it is fantastically creepy, if not entirely unexpected. The second twist turns the creepy factor up to 11 and is a total wrong-footer. #WTFthatending indeed – the sort that makes you go back to the beginning to check if it all pans out. And it does.
• Behind Her Eyes by Sarah Pinborough is published by HarperCollins (£12.99). To order a copy for £11.40 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
If you Google “Laboratoire Garnier”, the first hit is a Mitchell and Webb sketch that has long stuck in my memory for the supreme glee with which it is performed. Four scientists work away at their microscopes until one staggers to his feet, believing he has discovered a cure for Alzheimer’s. They are instantly cowed by the arrival of Monsieur Garnier, the hair-obsessed proprietor of the lab, who insists they get back to discovering new ways to curb frizz and whatnot or “you know where the exit door to the laboratoire is”.
In Horizon: Hair Care Secrets (BBC2) the follicularly focused research scientists interviewed aren’t distracted by piffling medical breakthroughs as they stress-test strand after strand in the name of glossier locks for all humankind. In the same way a journalist can end up writing about, say, popular culture rather than politics, not all scientists are destined to pore over stem cell samples, hunting for clues to human longevity. Some of them will dedicate their vast knowledge to helping us all feel better about ourselves. No one is going to make an Oscar-winning film about hair scientists, so a BBC documentary it is.
“As a molecular biologist, I know that what’s sitting on top of my head is just a mass of dead protein,” says Prof Anne Glover of the University of Aberdeen. And from that, I’m in. Not only is Glover vastly well-informed, she is a calm and engaging presence in front of the camera. I hope this is the first of many television appearances by her. (If this isn’t her first, I’m sorry to have missed her before now because she’s an absolute natural.)
Before we even start on the content of this documentary, I would like to applaud the commissioning and production of a science documentary presented entirely by qualified, knowledgable women. The work of Glover, Dr Laura Waters, Dr Zoe Williams and Dr Helen Czerski is excellent throughout and, if anything, I’d like to have heard more from them and less from the smattering of everyman and woman talking heads who, while cordial enough, added little with their bland statements about not liking bad hair days and wanting shinier locks. It seemed a token gesture of relatability in case viewers were unable to pay attention to scientists for a whole hour without blinking. If the vox populi had been removed altogether, this would have been a much tighter and more satisfying watch.
But, since the demise of Tomorrow’s World, an absolute staple of my childhood viewing and a window into a sphere of learning completely alien to me since GCSE biology, I take my accessible science talk where I can get it. And I did learn something. I learned what a hair transplant entails: effectively death by 2,000 tiny pricks as Joe the paramedic had his widow’s peak filled in with hair from the back of his head. You actually can turn back the tide of a prematurely receding hairline if you’re prepared to have your scalp punctured for hours like Hellraiser’s Pinhead.
I also learned how shampoo works at a molecular level, and how hair forms a large part of the first impression we make on meeting someone new. In just 13 milliseconds, we have already unconsciously judged someone by their appearance – a terrifying thought that had me unconsciously fiddling with my unruly mop for the rest of the hour.
The most strikingly off-kilter feature of this otherwise engaging programme was the overblown music. Our introduction to Joe, preparing for his transplant, is underscored with such max-power trauma synths, it’s as though the transplant is of some vital organ and his very survival is in question.
Back at the lab, Waters conducts an experiment on two of her students, Catherine and Tanya. “I’ve persuaded them to stop washing their hair …” – insert preposterous pause here – “… for a week.” Cue further synth pomposity entirely out of proportion to the subject matter. The result of not washing hair for a week is that, apparently, the hair becomes greasy. This could have been left on the cutting room floor.
Finally, welcoming cameras into their research lab, L’Oréal scientists in Paris demonstrate a molecule that took them 10 years to create and that adds volume to flat, lifeless hair. In haircare terms, it is a revolutionary piece of work. But it has me back in Mitchell and Webb’s fictional Garnier test centre, sniggering as David Mitchell removes his flat cap to reveal a long, chestnut mane that he swishes in slow-mo defiance at the cowering technicians.
Twelve Australian hip hop artists have collaborated on a new track calling for Australia Day to be moved, and released it with a 360 degree video in partnership with Indigenous TV channel NITV.
The track – which features the Herd’s Ozi Batla and Urthboy, L-Fresh the Lion, Hau of Koolism as well as Indigenous hip-hop artists Kaylah Truth, Nooky, Birdz (Nathan Bird) and Tasman Keith, alongside Tuka and Jeswon of Thundamentals and Erica and Sally of Coda Conduct – gives voice to a growing campaign to move Australia Day from 26 January.
Since 1994, the national public holiday has marked the 1788 arrival of the first fleet of British ships – a date referred to as Invasion Day or Survival Day by some Indigenous Australians.
The lyrics of the track – a collaboration between NITV and record labels Elefant Traks and Bad Apples – address the stolen generations, Indigenous incarceration, deaths in custody and other effects of white colonisation.
“Sick of fucking waiting for reparations, we pacing / Invasion and stolen children keep a country so complacent,” raps Gumbaynggirr artist Tasman Keith.
In his verse, Nooky – who won the $20,000 Dreaming prize last year – refers to Ms Dhu, the 22-year-old Aboriginal woman who, in 2014, became the 340th Indigenous person to die in police custody since the royal commission into Aboriginal deaths in custody concluded in 1992. In December a coronial inquest heard that Ms Dhu had endured “unprofessional and inhumane” treatment by West Australian police.
“Go and have a look at what they did to Ms Dhu,” raps Nooky. “My people die now who benefit? I might burn a flag for the hell of it.”
Northern Territory-raised artist Birdz says: “Black lives turn to black matter / Clap sticks clap to the rhythm of a cocked-back hammer clap bang / Here go another officer locking up another one of us like a popular fun thing to do / Another genocide on the BBQ.”
The protest track follows another released in August by Indigenous hip-hop duo A.B. Original. That song, titled January 26 and featuring Dan Sultan, was the lead single of the duo’s politically charged debut album, Reclaim Australia, described by Guardian Australia’s Andrew P Street as “a savage broadside at our national culture”.
In September 2016, Australian youth broadcaster Triple J – who frequently play many of the artists behind Change the Date – announced, after mounting pressure from listeners, that they were considering changing the date of their annual song poll, the Hottest 100.
The station’s content director, Ollie Wards, told Guardian Australia in September that “sometimes the majority has to stand up for the minority”, and confirmed there would be “some sort of clarity” on the issue by October 2017, after a year of consultation.
“I don’t want this to be a big discussion in the media at the moment and then have it disappear until people start wondering about the Hottest 100 around this time next year,” Wards said at the time.
In Change the Date, Kaylah Truth – a Meerooni artist of the Gurang nation – calls the Hottest 100 broadcast on Australia Day a sign of national division. “Annual – black family at the march, while my white fam celebrate on the charge / Got the Js on the tunes, holiday’s an excuse, BBQing and booze, patriots coming through / Do I start the convo, or will it kill the mood?”
In the lead-up to this year’s Hottest 100, another campaign has spread on Facebook for listeners to vote for A.B. Original’s track in this year’s poll. “By voting for a song which is both an explanation and rejection of the idea of January 26 as a day of celebration ... we have the ability to send a message to Triple J,” reads the page, which has 2,200 confirmed supporters.
Ladybird books will this week publish a new title on climate change. Co-authored by the Prince of Wales, the polar scientist Emily Shuckburgh and myself, the book is intended as a plain English guide to the subject for an adult readership. Short, peer-reviewed text sits alongside beautiful new paintings by Ruth Palmer to illustrate the basic briefing.
It has already been greeted in some quarters as another controversial intervention by our future king. But while it’s easy to fall behind that line of thinking, it is an increasingly mistaken one. For despite the impression created in some quarters, the truth is that climate change is not controversial. The basic facts are established and increasingly embedded in policy.
We know, for instance, that the global average temperature has during recent decades gone up. This is largely because of the accumulation of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, the concentration of which is rising because of human activity. In turn, the altered composition of the atmosphere is leading to changes that range from more extreme weather to reduced ice and snow cover and from unusual seasonal patterns to rising sea levels. All that is now established fact derived from careful observation and analysis.
These broad findings are increasingly reflected in policy choices and the business strategies of major companies. While there are those in elected office in some countries who take a non-scientific view, and some vested commercial interests that resist low carbon policies, there is less political division than is sometimes suggested.
For example in 2015, nearly every country on Earth (most of them some sort of democracy) signed up to the Paris climate change agreement. That legally binding treaty was not entered into lightly and revealed a level of political consensus visible on very few other issues.
In the UK, and despite several major media organisations continuing to pour doubt and confusion into the public discourse, we have a strong political foundation for action, as laid out in the form of the 2008 Climate Change Act, for example.
I launched the campaign for that act when I was the director at Friends of the Earth and one reason why it was possible to gain cross-party political backing for such a law was the work of Britain’s world-leading scientific institutions, including the Met Office and the British Antarctic Survey. Through supplying policy-makers with the findings of their research, they helped to shape understanding to the point where official foundations for action were laid.
With the science clear and the politics (in this country) quite robust, it is predictable that those with perspectives on climate change founded more on ideology than data will go for the messenger rather than the message. The Prince of Wales should keep “his mouth shut” was, for example, the recommendation of the Daily Mail in the wake of an article penned by the heir to the throne to mark the publication of his new book.
While the Mail and some other papers evidently won’t agree with his views on this subject, they might wish to reflect for a moment on the role of our monarchy. In the absence of a written constitution, perhaps the closest we’ve got to an accepted view on what it is for and where its right lie comes from the Victorian essayist and long-serving editor of the Economist, Walter Bagehot.
He wrote in 1867 in the English constitution that the monarchy has “the right to be consulted, the right to encourage, the right to warn”. I can think of few issues where exercising those rights fits the bill more closely than in relation to the ever less controversial matter of climate change.

A sinister gap-tooth smile grinned from the cover. Martin Sharp’s image announced the arrival of London’s Oz magazine, the exuberant herald of the hippy era.
The magazine would challenge the establishment, extol the virtues of drugs, sex and rock’n’roll and provoke a landmark obscenity case. Writers Germaine Greer, Lillian Roxon and Anthony Haden-Guest, who would go on to stellar careers, were among those who made early contributions.
But, 50 years on, it is not the articles in London Oz, but Sharp’s arresting images that remain compelling and groundbreaking. These were pivotal to magazine’s success and captured the spirit of a heady, utopian time.
Sharp was already notorious in his Sydney hometown
Sharp’s pin-up entitled Madonna of the Napalm was the standout image of the first issue, which hit London’s streets on 24 January 1967. The gothic parody depicted US president Lyndon B Johnson as the Virgin, with a halo of rifles and cradling a bomb and South Vietnam’s US-backed ruler Nguyễn Cao Kỳ.
In the top corner was a kangaroo with the face of the Australian prime minister Harold Holt who, in an infamous piece of toadying, had declared his country was “All the way with LBJ”. Time magazine’s art critic Robert Hughes later described Sharp’s image as “one of the classics of sixties anti-war cartooning”.
The Vietnam war was at its height when Sharp created the work. He had newly arrived in London from Australia – with his friend and Oz’s editor Richard Neville – where conscription provided a stream of young cannon fodder for a foreign war his homeland had eagerly signed up for.
Sharp was already notorious in Sydney, where he had twice been charged with obscenity over his cartoons. This included for Sydney’s Oz magazine, the forerunner of London Oz. Sharp had been central to the establishment of Sydney Oz in 1963 and, with its co-editors Neville and Richard Walsh, had been sentenced to six months’ jail, convictions later overturned.
In so-called Swinging London, Sharp found a vastly different political culture to the conservative society he had left in Australia. In Britain, conscription had been abolished, its prime minister, Harold Wilson, had rejected Washington’s request for troops and the public opposed the war.
This proved liberating to his art. Sharp arrived in London as a cartoonist and satirist. He would leave four years later as a fully fledged artist, having produced some of the defining images of the 1967 Summer of Love – a flowering of youthful, hedonistic optimism – and late sixties psychedelia.
That transformation is apparent in Oz as Sharp moved away from cartooning and satire. While retaining his wit, he used pop culture icons to produce increasingly complex, layered and art-literate work. And he made dramatic use of the London magazine’s colour format.
In Britain, Oz initially struggled to find its feet. But when Sharp produced his alluring yet naïve “Plant a Flower Child” pin-up for the July issue, of captivating long-haired, blond flower children clad only in daisies, it helped transform the magazine’s fortunes as it became a leading voice of the underground or alternative society.
Sharp cut up and collaged photographs of 16-year-old identical twins Michelle and Nicole Aloszko taken by his friend photographer Robert Whitaker. Best known for his images of the Beatles, Whitaker photographed the twins on a golf course near Ascot as they frolicked and peeked to camera.
Into the image, Sharp inserted images of himself and Whitaker – with whom he shared a Chelsea studio – although it requires keen eyes to spot them. While the Beatles album Sgt Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band became the soundtrack of the Summer of Love, Sharp’s day-glo “Plant a Flower Child” image made him its poster boy.
Throughout his life, Sharp was surrounded and inspired by musicians. In London, they became his subjects. He created an image of Bob Dylan as a tribute to the musician he admired. The singer’s hair is a mass of circles, influenced by Leonardo da Vinci’s knot design and by Art Nouveau illustrator Aubrey Beardsley. In Dylan’s sunglasses, Sharp inverted a letter of the singer’s Blowin’ in the Wind to become Blowin’ in the Mind – and so captured the zeitgeist.
The image became the cover of Oz in October 1967 and a poster. Sharp wanted the poster printed in purple and black on silver. Instead, it came back in red and black on gold. It was a happy accident that contributed to the success of his most celebrated image. A collector’s item today, the Dylan poster was among a number of Sharp’s images advertised for sale in Oz for 7/6d.
The Observer’s critic George Melly singled out the Dylan poster as outstanding. “If such a deliberately transitory art form of the underground poster could produce a work of permanent interest, this could well turn out to be it,” he wrote.
As he worked on Oz Sharp also created album covers, notably for Cream’s Disraeli Gears, one of the seminal albums of 1967. By then Sharp had moved to the Pheasantry on Chelsea’s King’s Road where his flatmates included Eric Clapton. He had met Clapton by chance at a London nightclub where he had offered the musician some lyrics he had penned. The result was Tales of Brave Ulysses, which appeared on Disraeli Gears.
Mick Jagger was the subject of Sharp’s Oz cover in October 1968, in an image that reflected several enduring artistic influences, including Hokusai’s Great Wave off Kanagawa and photographer Eadweard Muybridge’s running man. Sharp was working at the time on the cult film Performance in which Jagger made his film debut as a jaded rock star named Turner. Sharp assisted with the look of Turner’s decadent mansion and a number of Sharp’s artworks – including his Dylan image – appear in the film, directed by Nicolas Roeg and Donald Cammell, which portrayed the underbelly of the sixties.
Sharp was captivated by the music, energy and theatricality of Jimi Hendrix when he saw him perform soon after the then little-known US musician arrived in London. Sharp created an image of Hendrix, based on a black and white photograph by Linda Eastman (later McCartney). Sharp laid a sheet of Mylar plastic over the image and traced it. He had watched his other flatmate, filmmaker Philippe Mora, experimenting with cel animation, and drew on the technique.
Working on the Pheasantry’s floor, Sharp splashed colour on the work in an effect that evoked the paintings of Jackson Pollock. In it Hendrix and his Fender guitar are force fields of explosive, electric energy. But when the Hendrix poster first appeared, the image was reversed so the famously left-handed guitarist appeared to be playing right-handed.
“I didn’t know whether he was right-handed or left-handed to tell you the truth,” Sharp told me. “People in the music world wouldn’t have taken it seriously. But the effect was it said Jimi Hendrix anyway.”
By the time the image appeared in Oz, the error had been corrected and Hendrix was left-handed. Sharp created many versions of the image over the years and was working on a new one shortly before his death in 2013.
Sharp’s most radical contribution to Oz was the all-graphic Magic Theatre issue in November 1968. The cover alluded to Herman Hesse’s novel Steppenwolf, which Sharp had read at the Pheasantry. As in the novel, the cover warns: “Price of admittance your mind”. With Mora, Sharp cut out and pasted the strangest brew of collaged images to have appeared in print.
The 48 pages are filled with unsettling juxtapositions. A starving child appears alongside an obese woman, the famous and infamous rub shoulders along with Magritte, Van Gogh and Muybridge’s running man. Writer Jonathan Green later singled out the Magic Theatre issue as “arguably the greatest achievement of the underground press”.
The eccentric American balladeer Tiny Tim made his first appearance in Sharp’s art in the Magic Theatre issue. Sharp had become enraptured by the ukulele-playing singer, best known for his falsetto rendition of Tiptoe Through the Tulips, after seeing him perform at Clapton’s suggestion at London’s Albert Hall. Tiny Tim would remain Sharp’s lifelong obsession and reappear in his art. Under his will, Sharp left part of his estate to further the work of his eccentric muse.
Sharp had no part in the infamous School Kids Oz in May 1970, which resulted in Britain’s longest obscenity trial. He was on a trip back to Australia. As the 70s dawned and the flowers of the Summer of Love had long wilted, Sharp’s artistic focus had moved on from the magazine and he returned to Sydney. But his images for London Oz, posters and album covers remain as a icons of a sybaritic season.
Joyce Morgan is the author of Martin Sharp: His Life and Times, published by Allen & Unwin
Psychologists suggest that continual encounters with novelty can make time go slower. Try it out on the third album from these stylistic magpies. It spans only half an hour – a fraction of the California duo’s last sprawling effort – but it’s near perpetual motion. Animated by a game 40-piece symphony orchestra, Hang filters the glam maximalism of the 70s – heavy on Bowie, Reed and Rundgren – through a digital attention span. A phenomenal range of styles are lovingly spliced together, from funk to folk, but sweet melodies and sheer musicality make this an invigorating blast rather than an exasperating drag. Only woolly lyrics stop the album achieving the sharp quality of its influences.
Mozart, Ligeti, Bach? A curious combination but one suggested to the impressive Dudok Quartet Amsterdam when considering musical labyrinths. Mozart uses rhythmic and dynamic ruses to confuse us in his String Quartet No 14 in G major and wrong-foots us completely with a double fugue, while Ligeti employs thickets of micropolyphony to obscure the way through his frightening String Quartet No 2, cogently played by these imaginative players. And the link with Bach? Both composers drew inspiration from the puzzles JS devised in his canons. These mysterious little exercises sometimes come to an abrupt halt, lost in the labyrinth. A neat idea.
Good music, like good literature, or film, can take you deep inside the experience of others in ways you might not have foreseen. So it is that, by the end of this tiny gig by Hurray for the Riff Raff, roughly 130 people crammed into an east London pub basement are probably ready to rise up and embrace all our Puerto Rican sisters and brothers in the South Bronx. We are rallying round a New World Spanish phrase – “pa’lante!” – which means “keep on going”, sung repeatedly by Riff Raff songwriter Alynda Segarra.
Fist clenched, eyes scrunched with passion, Segarra ends her band’s main set with this huge new tune, Pa’lante. It is part candid autobiography (“I just want to fall in love and not fuck it up”) and part rallying cry (“To all who had to hide, I say: pa’lante!”). She is addressing not just her Puerto Rican roots, but pretty much anyone else who has ever felt excluded from a dominant narrative. Faintly recalling La Pasionaria’s No Pasarán! speech from the Spanish civil war (a slogan dusted off a few years ago by Russian liberal activists Pussy Riot), the song is a highlight of the Riff Raff’s gripping forthcoming album, The Navigator.
They can play a cover of Creedence Clearwater Revival’s Fortunate Son and make it sound like Sympathy for the Devil
Tonight is the first time the band have ever played it live, reveals Segarra. We may be down a dark alleyway off Hackney Road, but we could well be watching a new figurehead of the American musical resistance taking her place on a far bigger stage. For the occasion, this former busking hobo – think Seasick Steve, but for real – is wearing a black beret.
It is a cliche to note that oppressive political times tend to produce outpourings of engaged art. Certainly, Ronald Reagan’s years in the White House in the 80s were bumper times for American hip-hop, hardcore punk and Bruce Springsteen. Due in March, The Navigator is sure to be just one of dozens of political albums released in the US the wake of Donald Trump’s inauguration, but it is sure to be one of the most significant, personal and listenable.
Hurray for the Riff Raff play roughly half of it tonight. Anyone who came on board for their breakout 2014 masterpiece Small Town Heroes will remember a very different band and a very different sound. Gone are the personnel and the bluegrass, folk and blues influences that made the New Orleans-based troupe harbingers of a new kind of wide-ranging, inclusive Americana. Tonight, when the Riff Raff play Blue Ridge Mountain from Small Town Heroes, it is without the prominent fiddle of Segarra’s longtime foil, Yosi Perlstein.
This Riff Raff are, in fact, a brand-new band, able to take on Segarra’s pugnacious new music, a sound redolent of her roots in urban New York, rather than her adopted south, full of humid, florid nuyorican feints and swaggering troubadour rock. (The keyboard player, modelling her organ flourishes on Garth Hudson from the Band, is, incidentally, the spitting image of a young Patti Smith.) This rousing five-piece can play a cover of Creedence Clearwater Revival’s Fortunate Son in the encore and make it sound like the Rolling Stones’ Sympathy for the Devil. The song was originally about privileged kids dodging the Vietnam draft; there are no prizes for guessing which commander-in-chief it is addressed to now.
New lead guitarist Jordan Hyde is a magical presence throughout, coaxing elegance from his semi-acoustic on another new gem, Nothing’s Gonna Change That Girl (“a song about not giving up”, says Segarra). The song starts as a ballad, then takes a left turn into Latin prettiness.
On many of the new songs, Segarra puts down her acoustic guitar to focus on singing. Hungry Ghost is another autobiographical pop song (“I’m ready for the world”), one with an audible debt to Springsteen. The video, which hit the internet earlier in the day, features a glam, dressed-up Segarra and pays tribute to Californian live-work venue Ghost Ship, gutted by fire, which prompted wider closures of semi-illicit punk rock and queer spaces.
As well as funk, there’s an Afro-Cuban vibe to another new song, Rican Beach, and some incandescent soloing from Hyde. “Now all the politicians, they just squawk their mouths, they said, ‘We’ll build a wall to keep them out’,” Segarra sings pointedly. “Now the poets were dying of a silence disease/ So it happened quickly and with much ease,” she continues. The song concludes: “I’ll keep on fighting till the end.”
Winter Solstice is, in a way, the perfect welcome to the new year. A chilly one. Roland Schimmelpfennig, 49 and one of Germany’s most frequently performed dramatists, wrote Winter Solstice in the course of 2013 and 2014, in response to the rise of the new right in Europe. His play is better than a clarion call. Like its antihero, it is stealthy and subtle. It calls on its audience not to rise up and resist but to train themselves in observation. To realise by watching this gradually unfolding drama how easy it is to be inveigled, infiltrated.
He looks into another’s eyes, asking him what he really wants as if he were diagnosing a terminal disease
There is nothing rabble-rousing about the stranger who rings the “wealthy, middle-class doorbell” of a liberal household on Christmas Eve. He is the model of courtesy – or, as he would say, “chivalry”. He is gracious to older women. He is cosy with children. He plays Bach on the piano. He is a doctor. And he is, it slowly becomes apparent, a neo-Nazi.
The clues to his allegiance – a mention of a “world order”, an insistence on ancestral legacy, a glorification of mountains and blond hair – are carefully distributed. His speech – David Tushingham has provided a distinguished translation – is measured, rising only occasionally, almost imperceptibly to rhetoric. Nicholas Le Prevost incarnates him perfectly. He emits concern; he is sometimes hesitant and furrowed. He offers up generalities with reverence. He looks into another’s eyes, asking him what he really wants as if he were diagnosing a terminal disease. His sincerity is lethal.
As the first to fall under his spell, Kate Fahy is delicate and devastating. She is a vulnerable, cross, older woman, at odds with all around her. She tries nervously to second-guess the responses of others, flashes into bitterness, succumbs rapidly to the visitor’s caressing certainty. Fahy puts this across with witty swiftness: a twist to her mouth, a shadow moving over her face.
Laura Rogers, Dominic Rowan and Milo Twomey are all strong, playing dextrously with Schimmelpfennig’s central wheeze: that characters speak stage directions as well as lines. This has a comic effect and serious intent: setting thoughts against deeds, showing everyone all too obediently following a master script. In a co-production for Orange Tree and Actors Touring Company, Ramin Gray’s direction is continuously inventive but never fidgety.
In Lizzie Clachan’s rehearsal-room design, the cast show what co-operation is in a world that is ceasing to pull together. It is weirdly riveting to watch them, debating and wrangling, make a Christmas tree out of ice-cream cartons and pencil cases and a satsuma. They create the sounds of people half-heard in a nextdoor room. I wish only that Gray had cut 20 minutes of slack from the last third of the evening (two hours without a break). And resisted the temptation to underline international echoes by closing with an American voice.
• At the Orange Tree, London, until 11 February. Box office: 020-8940 3633
Mary Skeaping’s production of Giselle was commissioned for London Festival Ballet in 1971. Skeaping danced with Pavlova in the 1920s, and in recreating the piece worked closely with Tamara Karsavina, who performed the title role in tsarist St Petersburg. London Festival Ballet became English National Ballet in 1989, and Skeaping’s Giselle remains one of the jewels of the company’s repertoire. Old-fashioned but authentic, it is one of the most atmospheric productions in circulation.
Last year ENB director Tamara Rojo commissioned a new version of Giselle by Akram Khan to take its place alongside Skeaping’s. Dancing both versions has given the company a nuanced understanding of the story and its themes, and they present the older production with engaging sincerity. The corps have been carefully schooled in the 19th-century French Romantic style, as is apparent in their softly rounded arms and restrained line, but a scrappy and unmusical peasant pas de deux (by Aitor Arrieta and Crystal Costa) shows how difficult this is to get right.
Parish's final moments with Summerscales, when he begs her forgiveness and she gently bestows it, are heart-rending
The title role is danced by Laurretta Summerscales, who initially appears excessively coy, an affectation at odds with the robust efficiency of her dancing. Her acting clarifies during the first act, and by the time we reach the scene in which Giselle realises that she has been betrayed by her lover, she has found the emotional heart of her character.
The duplicitous Albrecht is danced by Xander Parish, a guest artist from the Mariinsky Ballet. Unlike some interpreters of the role, Parish makes no suggestion that the young aristocrat is merely feckless. Parish’s Albrecht is an unequivocally calculating seducer, and faced with Giselle’s distraught collapse, his only thought is for the consequences to himself. Parish conveys all of this through body language of considerable subtlety. With Summerscales, his dancing is all fluent charm, but at other times a fiercely entitled hauteur reasserts itself. There’s a vicious edge to this Albrecht, as Fabian Reimair’s Hilarion is swift to recognise.
With Giselle’s death, however, Parish’s Albrecht seems to fracture before our eyes, and the character that he builds in Act 2 is both human and deserving of redemption. Summerscales is in full technical and dramatic command by now, and Michaela DePrince (guesting from Dutch National Ballet) makes a strong impression as Myrtha, cleaving the stage space with huge, billowing leaps. But it’s Parish’s performance that you take away with you. The classical purity and authority of his dancing, the tenderness of his partnering, the clarity of his acting: all these are of a very rare order indeed. His final moments with Summerscales, when he begs her forgiveness and she gently bestows it before vanishing for ever, are heart-rending.
Professionally, Parish is at a crossroads. From 2005 to 2010 he was a member of the Royal Ballet, but was never allowed to dance a solo. Noting his ambition and potential, Mariinsky Ballet director Yuri Fateyev offered him a job, and for six years now Parish has been refining his dancing, and performing principal roles, in St Petersburg. Today Parish is the finest British-born danseur noble on the world stage, and there are signs that he wishes to complete his career in the west.
There would be a happy symmetry if he did so with the Royal, but, dismayingly for his many British fans, a deafening silence issues from Covent Garden on the subject. This looks like pique; the Royal’s underestimation of Parish was a serious missed trick. That said, Royal director Kevin O’Hare has not been slow to give chances to promising male dancers such as Reece Clark and Calvin Richardson, and may simply have other plans. In the meantime, as so often before, Rojo steals the headlines.
Like any good private eye, Pepe Carvalho refuses to let a little death get in the way of his inquiries.
More than 13 years after the demise of his creator, Manuel Vázquez Montalbán, Spain’s most famous fictional detective is to rise again to walk the mean streets of Barcelona at the fingertips of another renowned writer.
Pepe Carvalho – gumshoe, gourmand, former communist and ex-CIA agent – made his debut in Vázquez Montalbán’s 1972 novel Yo Maté a Kennedy (I Killed Kennedy).
In a series of stories published across more than three decades, the author and his private detective chronicled corruption, violence and political and social upheaval in Spain and far beyond its borders.
Amid the chaos and lies, Carvalho always found time for food (“Sherlock Holmes played the violin. I cook.”), mischievous literary criticism and the odd cynical aphorism (“The cops guarantee order. All I do is uncover disorder.”).
Vázquez Montalbán, a hugely prolific novelist, journalist and poet whose youthful activism led to him being imprisoned and tortured for 18 months under the Franco dictatorship, died of a heart attack in 2003, aged 64.
His work remains hugely popular in Spain and around the world, and his legacy lives on in the name and character of Andrea Camilleri’s Inspector Montalbano.
After talks between Vázquez Montalbán’s family and publishers, custody of Carvalho has now been entrusted to Carlos Zanón, who is working on a new novel set to appear next year.
Zanón, a fellow Catalan poet and novelist whose work has been compared to Vázquez Montalbán’s, was initially daunted by the commission but has come to relish the inheritance of arguably the most enduring character in late 20th century Spanish fiction.
“He’s the only literary character who’s lasted,” Zanón told the Guardian. “Vázquez Montalbán created a bit of a mythical figure. Carvalho was a tool to allow him to get out on to the street and see what was going on. Vázquez Montalbán had a real talent for sifting things and seeing which issues were important and which weren’t. He had a great nose for it.”
Perhaps because the novels were written quickly – Zanón compared the process to a punk band meeting, rehearsing and putting a record out in under a week – they acted as immediate commentaries on a rapidly changing society. “I think that’s something we really miss now. There aren’t a lot of writers who can look at society and decipher what’s happening in it so quickly.”
Zanón was equally taken with his predecessor’s ability to discern the darkness and sin that has long lurked in the Catalan capital. “He managed to set noir novels in Barcelona with all of the imagery that comes with it,” he said. “That’s part of the noir tradition, making Barcelona a borderland a bit like [Jean] Genet with his putrid view of the city. He brings in the American hardboiled stuff but then he adds really original stuff like the gastronomy and the popular music.”
Zanón was confident he had a home advantage over other authors. “The neighbourhoods I’ve written about are different from the ones he [Vázquez Montalbán] wrote about, but I think it’s important to capture how people live in the city. It’s not just about knowing the streets; you have to know how the people get along and how they order a coffee when they walk into a bar … It’s the little things that show how people are and you only get them if you’re part of the city.”
Belén López Celada, editorial director of Planeta, which published Vázquez Montalbán, said crime fiction was currently enjoying “a new golden age” from which a key character had been absent for too long.
“The Spain of Vázquez Montalbán’s books – the social and political background – is always really important and you can see it evolving throughout his novels,” she said. “When you come to reread them, some of the themes, like corruption, jump out at you. And you go: ‘Wow! He was so right!’
“There’s something visionary about Vázquez Montalbán: people who are reading him for the first time – and even those who have read him before - can see just how intelligent and brilliant he was; how he managed to see things before they happened in this country. The question was: what would happen now if Carvalho was still walking the streets of Barcelona?”
Zanón was reluctant to give away the secrets of his work in progress, but he agreed that Spain in the second decade of the 21st century was abundantly fertile territory for Pepe Carvalho. He pointed to the proliferation of political corruption scandals, the emergence of new parties such as Podemos and the bitter independence debate in Catalonia.
“There are so many things and situations that I’d like to get Carvalho’s take on,” he said. “I’m going to try to make it a noir novel that sketches out everything that’s going on in Catalan society politically when it comes to independence, for example, or the new parties, or corruption. These issues need to come out: it’s the end of a political class that’s been around since the transition but which is now totally out of the game.”
Eight decades after Arthur Conan Doyle’s death, in 2011 Anthony Horowitz published The House of Silk, the first new Sherlock Holmes adventure to be officially approved by the Conan Doyle estate. Holmes has also been reimagined as a 21st-century sleuth in BBC adaptations by Mark Gatiss and Stephen Moffat.
Agatha Christie died in 1976 but her diminutive Belgian detective Hercule Poirot returned in 2014 in Sophie Hannah’s The Monogram Murders, followed last year by Closed Casket by the same author.
Philip Marlowe has been stirred from the big sleep on more than one occasion, most recently in 2014 when John Banville gave his own spin on Raymond Chandler’s private eye in The Black-Eyed Blonde.
And since Ian Fleming’s death in 1964, James Bond books have been written by a distinguished rollcall of authors including Kingsley Amis, Sebastian Faulks and William Boyd, while Charlie Higson has written a series of Young Bond novels.
Frank Skinner clears some space in a basement bulging with bugbears, as a fresh series of the comedy panel show beckons. Catherine Tate, Nigel Havers and TV presenter Rylan Clark-Neal offer pet peeves for Skinner’s Orwellian alcove; picks from the pissed-off participants include try-hard hipster restaurants, prearranged paparazzi shoots and – in a move that may well goad viewers into using a BBC bias hashtag or 10 – Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn. Mark Gibbings-Jones
“He’s a bit square.” Such is the assessment made by proto-Wag Tina Dean (Michelle Keegan) when she first spies future husband Bobby Moore (Lorne MacFadyen). Yes, but he’s also going to become a pop culture icon, so problem solved. The first episode of this three-part dramatisation covers courting, Moore’s appointment as England football captain and a hushed-up brush with cancer via some clunky dialogue, but it’s evocative and entertaining, too. Jonathan Wright
Lee Mack’s comedy has bounded forward seven years: Lee and Lucy now have three kids and a classic family sitcom set-up – stairs at the back, front door on the left, through-kitchen on the right – and jokes about how annoyed they are by each other’s habits. As they spar over who’s responsible for the lost romance, the relentless wisecracking style makes the ensuing screwball battle veer close to unpleasant bitterness. Still plenty of great gags, though. Jack Seale
Which of the less than sufferable housemates in this – CBB’s 19th run – will be first to get their marching orders? With a pop art theme doubtless intended to encourage colourful and dramatic explosion among the All Stars, there is bound to be friction and battle lines drawn. The overall thinness of the concept seems to be confirmed by the presence of celebrities whose celebrity now consists of having appeared on Celebrity Big Brother. David Stubbs
This new three-parter charts the evolution of musical theatre, from Jerome Kern and Oscar Hammerstein’s groundbreaking Show Boat in 1927 to contemporary global phenoms like Wicked. As well as shading in historical context, super-chill composer Brand casually sits at his piano to drill deep into standards such as Oh, What A Beautiful Mornin’, breaking down complex songwriting techniques in accessible fashion. Graeme Virtue
It wasn’t all tousled hair, shoulder pads and keytars. Well, it was, but the 1980s was also a time of seismic shift both culturally and politically for the United States of America. In the first of eight episodes, this new documentary series looks into key events and figures of the decade, from David Bowie and hip-hop heroes Run DMC to Dallas, the emergence of primetime pioneer Oprah Winfrey, the Reagan presidency and the Challenger space shuttle disaster. Ben Arnold
Opening episode of a US comedy-drama based on the early exploits of Phil McGraw, who – prior to becoming a household name in the US as the host of Dr Phil – worked in trial consultancy. As it kicks off, the teen son of a billionaire is accused of murdering his girlfriend. When it transpires that he may also have been seeing someone else, things turn nasty, but that’s not the only twist in the tale. Hammy and unoriginal, this isn’t only bull by name but by nature, too. Hannah J Davies
The Black Balloon (Elissa Down, 2008) 12.35am, BBC1Director and co-writer Elissa Down drew on her own experience of growing up with two autistic brothers for this portrait of a family under huge strain. Toni Collette stars as Maggie, mother of the autistic Charlie (Luke Ford). She exudes unconditional love as the mute teenager lurches from sweetly lovable to impossible. Charlie is also a challenge for his younger brother Thomas (Rhys Wakefield) and his girlfriend Jackie (Gemma Ward), in a heartfelt but unsentimental Australian drama.
European Challenge Cup Rugby: Bristol v Bath 7pm, BT Sport 2 Coverage of the Pool Four contest (Kick-off 7.45pm).
Championship Football: Leeds United v Derby County 7pm, Sky Sports 1 Two playoff contenders meet at Elland Road (kick-off 7.45pm).
La Liga Football: Malaga v Real Sociedad 7.40pm, Sky Sports 2 A Spanish top-flight clash at the Estadio La Rosaleda (kick-off 7.45pm).

Once a year in Tasmania, Aboriginal men and women hunt mutton birds to sell for their meat, oil and feathers. According to a Dreamtime story, these birds flew down from the moon. Their captors are known as moonbird people.
Pakana writer Nathan Maynard – a local Tasmanian and moon-birder himself – delves into the lives of the practitioners in this impressive debut play. The Season follows the raucous, loveable Duncans on their annual pilgrimage to Dog Island in the Bass Strait. There, they harvest mutton birds, so called for the gamey taste of their flesh.
Over early morning breakfasts of porridge and tea, late night parties around a fire, and days spent in the hot, sweaty plucking sheds, they laugh, bicker and cry. Secrets are unveiled and emotions are wrung. Do not expect much plot: in fact, very little happens. Instead, this is a slow burning, often laugh-out-loud, comedy of manners and a surprisingly shrewd exploration of what makes a family tick.
If The Season is unusual in its subject matter, it is also significant for who has put it together. Playwright Maynard, director Isaac Drandic, and the seven-strong cast, including Trevor Jamieson (The Secret River) and Luke Carroll (Black Diggers), are all Indigenous, a combination too little seen in Australian theatre.
Patriarch Ben Duncan (a soulful, big-hearted Kelton Pell) and his wife Stella (Tammy Anderson), a woman fiercely protective of her own flesh and blood, are hosting a reunion for the birding season. Helping out is their cocky son Ritchie (Carroll), sweet, affectionate daughter Lou (Nazaree Dickerson), and her teenage son Clay.
Tension is largely created through absence. Clay (James Slee) lives in Melbourne and is harvesting for the first time. Proud of his heritage, he none the less waits in vain for his no-hoper father to visit, a white man. Meanwhile, Stella’s filthy-talking, fun-loving sister Marlene (Lisa Maza) is finally fed up of her long-term affair with the sly, cheating Neil Watson (Jamieson), who turns up only when it suits him.
In an era weighed down by identity politics, Maynard, thankfully, is never didactic. He touches only in fleeting on subjects such as forced assimilation and the encroachment of government regulation on birding, concentrating on the Duncans as a living, breathing, contemporary family rather than ciphers for political viewpoints.
Underpinning it all are the birds themselves. The Season has the difficult task of showing a wider audience the fundamentals of a little known custom and at times the details are confusing. Grittier realities (chicks are pulled from nests and their necks are snapped) are washed over by a sense of wonder. “Look at ya’s flying in perfect chaos,” says Ben in awe. “Carrying another with a beat of your wing and resting on the beat of theirs …”
Of course, the birds are also a golden metaphor. They migrate thousands of kilometres each year, only to return to the same burrows to breed. They crash into the sheds at night, confused, and drawn to, the glow of the bulbs. Marlene, saddened by wasted years with a married philanderer, echoes their movements: “He had his light on and I flew straight into it. I was chasing the moon but I couldn’t see anything but him.”
The Duncans, too, are now dispersed, living in different places. Yet they return to Dog Island – with its sweeping sands and roaring sea – to reconnect with mob and with country. The set designer Richard Roberts conveys both this sense of home and of expanse, combining a cramped, low-key kitchen in one corner with the vast wilds of the beach. The birds, meanwhile, slung over the backs of the harvesters on wooden poles, are depicted through white rags.
For all this, the action can drag and I often felt my attention waning. A dramatic moment involving a fire is particularly poorly executed; what should be frightening, explosive even, expires with a puff. Luckily, a lack of pulse is made up for by spirited performances. I wanted each and every character to succeed, even the naughty cheat Watson, who tiptoes around the sheds looking to pinch some birds, and maybe a bottom or two, like a bearded fairy imp.
This, then, is the key to The Season’s winning charm: it may about moonbird people but this is a play rooted in the everyday with an ability to laugh about itself – hard. In an opening scene Stella propositions her husband, reminding him they always have sex before the harvest begins and family chaos descends. “Ya black hunk of spunk,” she teases him. “Woman, you know me!” he replies. “I’m all about the tradition.”
• The Season plays at Sydney festival 10 to 15 January and Hobart’s Theatre Royal 16 to 19 March during the Ten Days on the Island festival.
You must feel an incredible sense of power, standing in front of 80,000 people. And with great power comes great responsibility, as Spider-Man put it. Do you feel that responsibility, too?
Well, you’ve got to look at it … you go out on stage each night as if, one, it’s the most important thing in your life you can do, two, it’s only rock’n’roll. You’ve got to be able to keep those conflicting points of view in your mind at the same time without letting either of them drive you crazy, or taking either of them at 100% face value. That’s sort of how you live with it. But it is something you asked for. You can’t get around that part of it. You just do your best with it.
Your show is about delivering to the audience moments of transcendence – it’s something you’ve spoken about. When you go on stage do you have any idea where those moments might fall, or where you want them to fall? Can you pace a set like that?
You can’t predict it. Every show is so organic. I’ve never played two shows that are the same, in all the years we’ve been playing. You’re dealing with the alchemy of yourself and your audience, and that’s a swirling, changing experience from moment to moment. I go out and I both guide and allow myself to be guided by the audience. And those moments happen … There’s a structure to the show that builds to certain points, it ebbs at certain moments, but there’s always a moment of surprise – those moments will come up and surprise me during the course of the evening, and you’ll just play something where I’ll just look at Steve [Van Zandt] and we’ll go, “Yeah, that. We got that.” We’ll just look at each other and go, “Wow. That was a great moment.”
How, mentally, did you adjust to how ageing has changed your performance, the fact that you could no longer jump from the piano, or if you did a kneeslide, it might take you five minutes to get up from it …
I’m probably not going to do three running somersaults at this point. But the basic thing, the only thing that I notice as I’ve gotten older is that you have certain structural weaknesses in your body that arise, and you’ve got to manage your physical self so it can do the essential and important things. So you can deliver your message and create the evening you want to create. So you curtail a few of the other things that at this point aren’t as necessary – you have the possibility of busting your back or your neck.
You can remove the adornments from a cathedral, but it’s still a cathedral …
Yeah, exactly! Those are the only adjustments I’ve had to make. Energy wise, I don’t feel anything different. Physically, I don’t feel anything different. We’ve played some of the longest shows of our career [in 2016], so there are a few small things, but not too much.
The hunger in you that drives you to throw everything out there … would be the same in front of an audience of one
Does it feel different to play to 70,000 people as opposed to 150 people?
The machine, the inner workings of what you’re doing is exactly the same. You’re still working as hard to impress 150 people. The hunger in you that drives you to throw everything out there, amazingly enough, I believe would be the same in front of an audience of one. Because you’re trying to start a conversation, to fire up a conversation, fundamentally with one other person, which then extends itself, to 50, to 500, to 5,000 to 50,000. But the act itself is profoundly the same. You have to learn some different elements of your craft to play a bigger crowd, you have to have a certain talent for it. But the inner alchemy is basically the same.
Michael Stipe of REM told me he was happy to play a full room of any size, but once it wasn’t full he had a problem with it, no matter whether it was a club or a stadium, because that’s when the insecurities would come out.
Really? That’s interesting. My approach was a little different, in that I always looked at it as: I’m here to play for the people that are here. And we go round the States and we don’t sell out all the time. We’ve played arenas that are three-quarters full. We still sell a great amount of seats but you’re not going to sell out every show for the rest of your life. I still come out on stage with the same presence of mind as if the place was full. The stakes are still the same. You’re always happy to see a large group of faces staring back at you. And I’m used to playing full houses, so I’ve been spoiled a little bit by that over the years.
It’s not that you wouldn’t have second thoughts, “Hey! Where is everybody?” – of course you would. But still, the fundamental act is the same. You’re trying to talk to who’s there. You have a window of opportunity where you have some influence, and you try to use that window well. Go home, put your head on the pillow, and sleep well that night.
What do you recall about making the steps from arenas to stadiums in 1985?
You are initially intimidated by the space. But it’s all mental. You have to be mentally prepared for the larger environment. If you can mentally project yourself to the last row, you’ll be fine. It’s all about making that initial connection with the audience. If you do that, the folks at the back will feel it, the folks in the middle will feel it, the folks at the front will feel it. If you go out there and you can’t imagine that connection, it’s not going to happen, and then you’re going to have a miserable few hours. That’s when you think, “OK. I’m a fraud.”
Are there shows where you don’t feel you make that connection?
The key is you have to take each audience on its merits. No two audiences are the same. If you go and play a show in Spain, it’s not the same as playing in Hyde Park [in London]. It’s not the same as playing in the States. Every audience has its own characteristics. You can’t expect the audience to conform to your expectations. You have to come out and say, “OK, I’m meeting someone new tonight. First let me meet them and learn a little bit about them.”
So you have to come out, start playing, and get a feel for the audience that evening. They may be quiet. They may be wildly boisterous. They may overwhelm you with their energy. You may feel there’s a particular crowd where the energy is low. But you can’t have preconceptions – if the energy is low, people may simply be listening. Or they may be experiencing the music in a different way.
I’ve had circumstances where I’ve seen somebody in the front row who appears completely stone-faced, not enjoying the show at all. I’ll see ’em at another show – “Gee, that guy wasn’t having much fun at the other show, what’s he doing here?” And then you bump into them in the street, and the guy’ll go, “I’ve been the biggest fan of yours for the last 25 years.”
You can’t read what people are thinking or how they’re experiencing what you’re doing. So you have to have faith in what you’re doing, and you have to have faith in the audience when you come out. Then you have to go about your business until you can feel the connect happening. But it’s very important not to come out with a set of preconceived notions about who the audience is.
At the big outdoor shows, there’s also the fact of geography: diferent songs work in different ways in different parts of a huge crowd. Sometimes, at your shows, I’ve found ballads work well at 120 yards away, because people have to be quiet. Whereas up close, the big numbers steamroller you. Geography matters at those gigs.
It certainly does. The sound will shift every hundred yards or so. So the audience has to mentally prepare themselves also. You find your place where you’re located and you find your way into the show as it’s being presented. So the audience has work to do also.
Do you still get the same adrenaline rush from performance?
It varies from night to night but whenever you’re going out in front of a crowd of any size, your body knows it. This is what I do. This is the only thing I do. This is the only thing I’m qualified to do. So it matters how I do it at night. There’s a lot of anticipatory anxiety which then translates into a raw shot of adrenaline once you’re out there. We come out to press our case very hard, about what we think about everything, I suppose, and life itself. And so it’s challenging nightly.
But how do you find meaning, night after night, in Born to Run, for example? Nils Lofgren said he does it by remembering that while he plays it 150 times a year, the crowd don’t hear it 150 times a year, so he finds that person in the crowd for whom it’s the big event of the year and feeds off them.
Yeah. It’s like if you’ve written something … You work on an album in a hermetically sealed environment. One of the most frightening things is playing it for someone else. For the first time you’re hearing it through their ears. They’re just sitting there, but you’re hearing the thing totally brand new through their ears. And you’re recognising all its faults and all its strengths. So the thing about coming out in front of an audience every night is that I’m hearing what I’m doing through that audience’s ears. That’s what Nils was sort of explaining. I may have heard it 100 times, but that guy’s only hearing it that night, that’s all.
Part of my job is to have a foot on stage and a foot in the audience. To have one ear to the band and one ear to the crowd. And if you’re doing that correctly you experience the evening through their ears as well as your own.
Do you never get lonely being the leader of the band, being their employer, the Boss?
It’s been that way for so long that I don’t really think about it much anymore. While you feel the fullness of what you’ve accomplished, you also do your best not to dwell on it very much when it doesn’t serve you to do so. Everyone needs a degree of anonymity, a degree of freedom of movement – at the end of the day, a big piece of you is still who you were previous to when you picked a guitar up, or before you started. You need to feel that person still close by. You can’t live inside your work; your work has got to live inside you.
Are you still friends with the E Street Band members in the way ordinary people are friends? If you’re in the same place at the same time, would you call up and have a beer?
Oh yeah, very much. Everyone has families and lives in different places. But if I get out west, I’ll see Roy [Bittan]. If I’m in New York, Steve and I will make a point of bumping into each other as much as possible. There may be long periods where you don’t see the guys. But I’m happy to report that the E Street Band is still filled with people who actually like one another. We may not have everything in common, but there’s a deep mutual respect and I believe a real love between the band members that projects from the stage and is very real.
At times when your status has ebbed, as it does for all artists at some point, have you found that hard to deal with?
Not really. Everyone has their moments when they think, “Gee, why isn’t everyone listening to this record I made?” But I take the ebb and flow of my work life, after 50 years of doing it, as a natural part of the dynamic of your career. But whenever you put something out there – particularly if you believe in it completely – you want to to be understood, you want it to be well received. You want to grab people’s ears – that’s my business. If not, you’re going to be disappointed.
• Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band tour Australia and New Zealand between 22 January and 25 February
There’s something a bit televisual to this French movie about a well-respected country doctor with cancer who is advised to take on a student assistant to lighten his workload during chemo. Naturally, this assistant is an attractive woman with whom he has a prickly relationship. When their car pulls into various barnyards, scattering geese, I could almost hear the theme music to the BBC’s All Creatures Great and Small. But, despite some cliches, it’s a warm and good-natured piece of work, featuring an attractive, humane lead performance by François Cluzet as Dr Jean-Pierre Werner, like a younger and more restrained Dustin Hoffman. Marianne Denicourt is Nathalie, a former nurse who is taking a midlife retraining course as a medical student; a city type who – of course – doesn’t at first appreciate the patience and subtlety needed to understand a country medical practice. And she certainly doesn’t understand Dr Werner’s reluctance to hospitalise a very ill elderly patient. He is suspicious of institutions, but could it be that this reluctance is a symptom of denial concerning his own condition? Not groundbreaking work, this, but watchable.
Prior to the guys’ Take-That-style reunion in the forthcoming sequel T2, here is a very welcome big-screen rerelease of Danny Boyle’s original Trainspotting, 21 years on. It holds up terrifically well. This movie was the first, maybe the only successful 90s British attempt at answering films like Goodfellas or Pulp Fiction; it has a version of their spirit and power – and matches them for hardcore violence, horror and drugs. But John Hodge’s screenplay, taken from the novel by Irvine Welsh, brings in a grittily British kind of social-realist pessimism. Watching it again, especially during the periodic “family” scenes in pubs after court appearances and funerals, I thought of Ken Loach’s Poor Cow.
Trainspotting is supercharged with sulphurous humour and brutal recklessness: it charges at you like Ewan McGregor’s Renton sprinting from store detectives in the opening sequence. In 1996, his famous “choose life” monologue was dynamic; in 2017 it sounds poignantly light and breathy, almost childlike, like a kid reciting in school. With his mates Sick Boy (Jonny Lee Miller), Spud (Ewen Bremner) and the psychotic Begbie (an unforgettable performance by Robert Carlyle), Renton grapples with getting off heroin and somehow making sense of his life, incidentally falling hard for the beautiful Diane (Kelly Macdonald).
The only problem with Trainspotting is that it inspired an Uncool Britannia parade of geezer-gangster Britflicks, all of them introducing their adorable semi-crim characters in freeze-frame voiceover. But it planted a seed for the Scottish independence campaign with Renton’s state-of-the-nation aria: “It’s shite being Scottish! We’re ruled by effete arseholes!” Like Archie Gemmill in 1978, scoring for Scotland against Holland in the World Cup, Trainspotting found the back of the net.
Cannily scheduled for release at the time of year when gym applications and feelings of self-disgust reach their peak, this Australian documentary examines body-image issues, especially among women, and our inability to embrace ourselves as we are.
The film is both a critique and a product of the social media era, given that director-presenter Taryn Brumfitt first found fame when a pair of pictures – one showing her in body-builder condition, and in the other, naked and softened by child-bearing and contentment – went viral, earning both praise and trollish opprobrium.
Brumfitt sets out on a round-the-world expedition to understand the issues better, meeting assorted experts and opinionated celebrities such as Amanda de Cadenet and Ricki Lake, as well as a woman with a terrible eating disorder, a severe burns survivor and a delightful young lady whose hormone imbalance gives her a beard. It has an indisputably worthy message, and should be essential viewing for young people. Older, more jaded viewers may feel like we’ve been over this ground many times before – except, in the old days, we were a lotangrier about it all, and unafraid to use words such as “feminism”.
In 2011 John Musker and Ron Clements, the writer-director team responsible for Disney’s animated film Moana, took the first of many research trips to Polynesia, interviewing elders and community members from Samoa, Tahiti and Fiji. It was the beginning of a five-year endeavour to ensure that Moana, a film about a young heroine in a nonspecific region of Polynesia, would do better at depicting Indigenous people and people of colour than Disney had done in the past.
That same year Disney opened the doors to its $800m Aulani resort, part of the Ko Olina resort development on O’ahu in Hawaii. Dressed in an aloha shirt and flip flops, Disney’s chief executive, Bob Iger, said, “We have committed ourselves to ensuring that Aulani is respectful and appreciative of the unique Hawaiian culture and traditions.”
This bastion of luxury sits at the gateway to the predominantly native Hawaiian communities of the Waianae coast, one of the most economically disadvantaged areas in Hawaii. Standard room rates start at more than $500 a night.
In the midst of a heated conversation about whitewashing in Hollywood, Moana’s creators Musker and Clements have touted their efforts, encouraged by Disney’s creative chief, John Lasseter, to get Polynesian culture right. Whereas, by their own admission, their research for Aladdin consisted of a visit to a Saudi Arabian expo at the Los Angeles Convention Center, for Moana, they worked with a hand-selected group of cultural consultants, later dubbed the Oceanic story trust.
But the veneer of “culture” has always been an important part of colonial profit-making in the Pacific. Think tiki torches, hula skirts and lu’au. As it turns out, “authenticity” makes for even better marketing, and Moana is just one of the Polynesian products that the corporation is hoping to sell.
As the Māori scholar Tina Ngata argues, Moana is a “very flash-looking, prolonged advertisement for a merchandise and tourism machine” that includes the 351-room Aulani resort, 481 Disney Vacation Club timeshare units in Aulani, and talks of regular cruise ship routes through the Hawaiian Islands. Moana’s release has sparked a flurry of travel articles about the island “destinations” that inspired the movie’s vibrant landscapes. Auli’i Cravalho, the native Hawaiian actor who voices Moana, gave insider Hawaii holiday tips to the New York Times, and Disney partnered with Hawaiian Airlines to promote the film. Pacific Business News came right out with it in an article: “Disney’s ‘Moana’ an advertisement for Hawaii tourism”.
The problem here is that this merchandise and tourism machine operates in direct opposition to the morals of Moana, a young girl who cares fiercely for her people and her island – both of which face the threat of ecological destruction. This story is not unfamiliar to people who call the Pacific home. Rising sea levels, depleted fisheries, and intensifying storms have already had an impact on Pacific peoples. And while Moana supposedly gives voice and representation to those struggles, its release not only helps to drive the expansion of Disney’s carbon-intensive global tourism empire but also fuels a mass market of plastic merchandise that epitomises the very culture of consumption responsible for our planet’s environmental crisis.
As a non-Indigenous settler who calls Hawaii home, it’s not for me to decide whether Disney succeeded in accurately representing Polynesian cultures in Moana. But having grown up in the islands, it’s easy to see that these contradictions have real, material impacts for the people of the Pacific, and Hawaii in particular, because they promote and legitimise the consumption of native lands, waters and culture by non-native peoples. And the desire for environmentally and culturally sustainable alternatives to the tourism economy is real.
In a 2010 survey by the Hawaii Tourism Authority, 60% of Kanaka Maoli (native Hawaiian) respondents feel that the tourism industry is detrimental to the survival of their culture. Why?
Consider for a moment that the caricatured likeness of Maui, a demigod in a living religion, is now plastered on to fossil fuel-powered jets that cart thousands of tourists to Hawaii from the United States – the country responsible for the illegal overthrow, annexation and continued occupation of the sovereign Hawaiian kingdom.
Many of these tourists then take a shuttle or rental car to Aulani resort, part of a master-planned development that was vehemently opposed by the native Hawaiian community when it began in the 1980s and 90s. The activist Puanani Burgess recalls in the book A Nation Rising: Hawaiian Movements for Life, Land, and Sovereignty, the “development was going to change how life was lived on the coast by changing the coastline. Their plan called for building lagoons because there was no natural beach … They were going to change the landscape of the ocean and the ability for fishermen to fish.”
Indeed, today, guests of Aulani and other Ko Olina resorts are directed to human-made lagoons blasted out of living reefs that once fed generations of Kanaka Maoli families. They play golf on manicured greens fed with water that is desperately needed by native Hawaiian farmers on the Waianae coast. They lounge by the pool, drinking mai tais served by the descendants of Maui, whom – they may be unaware – is not a creation of the Disney imagineers, but a revered ancestor of many Kanaka Maoli.
And all the while, just a short drive down the coast, a homeless encampment of more than 200 people, most native Hawaiian, continues to grow.
When you view Moana in the context of Hawaii’s dependence on mass tourism, it doesn’t take much of a stretch of the imagination to see “the Darkness” that threatens Moana’s island as an unintentional allegory for an exploitative industry that continues to devour land and resources for resort development.
Investors come in, buy up land, promise low-paying but much-needed service jobs, quash opposition with expensive legal battles and endless appeals, then appropriate Hawaiian culture to brand their resorts as unique destinations. Meanwhile, housing prices rise, wages stagnate, resources dwindle and profit is funnelled out of the islands and back into corporate pockets. At Ko Olina this cycle began in the 80s, and continues today with plans for one of the world’s most expensive resorts.
Through tourism, land values in Hawaii are dislocated from the needs of the local economy, contributing to an affordable-housing shortage that has resulted in the highest per capita homeless rate and the highest cost of living in the US. Kanaka Maoli carry a disproportionate share of this burden, often being priced out of their own homelands.
Of course, Moana is not directly responsible for any of this and, for many, the movie and its heroine are still a win for diversified representation. But applauding Disney for profiting from Polynesian stories paints the corporation’s presence in the Pacific as benevolent, and erases the struggles of Polynesians who are working tirelessly to survive in their homelands and reclaim their own, rich storytelling traditions from colonialism.
Some huge reveals this week as the slow-burner hots up. Disparate strands are starting to connect as we try to make sense of David Walker’s life – and the core four are all put through the wringer as Cassie and Sunny make excellent progress in the case of the suitcase Tory.
We know David Walker a lot better now after some tenacious excavation work from Cassie’s team. Busting his hump working in clubs and nightclubs, David enthusiastically frequented sex workers and Conservative party fundraisers in the 80s. He also struggled with depression and drinking, likely as a result of childhood abuse from a primary school teacher. When he was last seen alive, David was on his way to meet a potential party donor. Before he went missing he had spoken to his best friend about going to the police to report the crimes and perhaps even confront his abuser.
We also have Colin Osborne appearing in David’s desk diary a few weeks before his death, along with the phone number to his swanky flat in Tower Bridge. Following an impressive game of pager Hangman, an address in King’s Cross is linked to Sara.
Cassie has always struggled to remove her detective hat when she gets home, something demonstrated again here when she grills Martin about the train tickets to Winchester she finds in his jeans pocket. He denies everything, but he’s a terrible liar. All Cassie has to do is illegally open his mail, violating the sacred trust between father and daughter, and his laughable “pitch-and-putt with Bob and Gem” alibi is dust. Never let this guy undergo interrogation.
Seriously though, Cassie needs to back off. What is she playing at?
“No we didn’t row about it, the row didn’t get out of hand and I didn’t accidentally fucking kill him.”
This is what I like about Tessa – she gets straight to the point. Coppers make the worst suspects; they’re forever thinking what you’re thinking.
Tensions are rising at home, with Paul struggling to juggle the demands of Tessa and his daughter Becca. At work, Tessa’s boss asks her to accept restricted duties. She resents this massively and refuses to take the offer voluntarily, risking a formal suspension. As her increasingly agitated son Jason threatens to tailspin, the chances of that peaceful retirement are looking increasingly remote for Tessa.
The colour drains from Colin’s face as Cassie and Sunny turn up. David’s photo prompts a flashback to what looks like an 80s party bursting with ambition, cocaine and beautiful people. He gives the least convincing denial since Cassie’s father last opened his mouth and claims no recollection of David.
He does level with them over his shameful past as a banker though, something he gave up in early 1990, around the time of David’s death. Cassie is nonetheless impressed with his pro bono work.
“You obviously have a desire to give something back.”
Well yeah, there’s that £5,000 he’s donating to a struggling addict couple for example. He finally confesses all to his husband Simon – Range Rovergate and Tyler’s subsequent blackmail.
“I thought your temper issues were in the past now,” says Simon, not realising that this is Unforgotten where the past is forever catching up with you to key the Range Rover of your happiness.
They agree that handing over the money is the least worse option, but Simon knows perfectly well that this is a Hail Mary pass and that this entire mess is Colin’s fault.
We don’t spend too much time with Marion this week but when we do it’s pretty miserable. After getting a mild dressing down from management for her private talks with Zoe she takes it out on her husband Tony, suspecting that he gave her up. Tony, apparently infinitely patient, is just concerned that her old mental health problems are resurfacing. With work, her domineering sister and her infertility issues Marion is spinning a lot of plates – and that’s before we get to whatever her connection with David Walker is.
The week starts off promisingly for Sara when she secures a second interview for the job at Highbrook school. That’s as good as it gets unfortunately as the hits keep on coming for her after that. She butts heads with the patriarchy at the mosque as her Make Women’s Prayer Space Equal to Men’s petition is taken down.
We had better pray the mosque regulars never find out what she was up to in the 80s. Sara’s past as a sex worker is the big revelation of the episode, and there’s strong work from Badria Timimi in the scene where Cassie and Sunny confront her.
When shown his photo, Sara flashes back to an encounter with David but immediately denies all knowledge. It lacks conviction, but it’s still one of the more convincing denials this week. She claims to have been travelling when David went missing which will count her out as the killer if it checks out.
Sara’s friend Samira remembers her fondly and says she was always too good for sex work. It seems clear that something prompted her downward spiral. So what put her in the “very dark place” for her year of living dangerously?
I get the feeling that the excesses of the 1980s will be on trial here in the same way the excesses of the 1970s were in series one.
Here’s a theory: Sara and David were abused by the same primary school teacher, many years apart. David frequented sex workers and a chance encounter with Sara led them to share their experiences. They formulated a plan to confront their abuser, Sara went travelling, David couldn’t wait for her return, persisted alone and got killed as a result.
The Raglan Way, Highgate address is likely to be Marion’s given that she is the only character not currently linked to David.
Are the snatched conversations between Jason and downstairs Cath the basis for a future happily-ever-after? She’s the mousy manic pixie dream girl right under his nose – if only he would notice her!
Are you buying that Tessa joined the police force because she was so impressed with the officers on her husband’s case? It’s not unthinkable but she strikes me as the calculating type, one who might have a less inspirational reason for joining Team Plod.
Tessa first of all says that David was well-connected and his career was successful then later that he left them with only £30,000. So what happened? I suspect the answer may be “cocaine is a hell of a drug”.
“Hardball. Respect!” Cassie’s lack of sympathy for Sunny’s daughter problems is pretty funny. I’ve always liked their pleasantly jaded back-and-forth – never showy but always authentic.
“I’d be very surprised if your Miss Alazi wasn’t a tart.” This from Sara’s old landlord is straight out of Rising Damp.
How is Unforgotten shaping up for you? What’s your take on this week’s revelations? Which character do you think had the worst 1980s? And most importantly of all: who is the killer and why? Have your say below.
Julie Byrne might not make for the most reliable tenant – her restless side has seen her move home countless times in recent years (Buffalo, Pittsburgh, Chicago, Seattle, New Orleans … you get the picture). But life on the move has made for interesting music, in which double rainbows (Follow My Voice), breaking dawns (Natural Blue) and even the dye made from crushed beetles (Melting Grid) serve as lyrical inspiration. This second album might not hang together were it not for the fact Byrne herself appears immersed within the worlds she sings about – there’s something pleasingly organic about the way she almost seems to exhale the melodies. Songs such as All the Land That Glimmers Beneath are reminiscent of Jackson Browne’s finger-picked songs for Nico, but there’s an otherworldly glaze of synth that drifts over the likes of I Live Now As a Singer, adding to the unique and intimate atmosphere.
Surrey quintet You Me at Six make overwrought emotional anthemia that’s about as dangerous as a leather jacket. They’re also on the cusp of super-sizing into Britain’s next stadium band and this, their fifth album, has given them their second No 1. Out of all the rockers peddling the same generic chart angst – Paramore, Thirty Seconds to Mars, Fall Out Boy – at least YMAS attempt to suggest they might have gonads behind the guitars (alongside some noirish, Nasvillian touches from Kings of Leon producer Jacquire King). The title track strains to achieve Black Keysish blues by way of a crotch-thrusting, Downward Spiral-era Trent Reznor; Make Your Move and Spell It Out admirably go for some mathier, metallic riffage before the pained wails kick in; and Swear has a glossy, Rainbow Room swagger. But wait, what’s this – the kind of cheap ballad you usually hear sung by nice boys with quiffs? Generic pop-country-rock about feeling “brand new”? It’ll sound great blaring from the car radio at rush hour, but you’ll find more darkness and complexity in Twilight fan-fic.
It might not be the revolution the music world is pining for, but streaming services have recently reported an explosion in the popularity of ambient world electronica. Good timing for the doyen of percussive atmospherics, Simon Green, who returns with his sixth album. Inspired by his experiences as a nomadic musician rather than global issues surrounding migration, the record shares the same melancholic intensity of Jon Hopkins’ Immunity, but its head remains in the clouds rather than the club. Nicole Miglis’ vocals on Surface flicker like the flames of a backpacker’s campfire; the woozy No Reason is verdant and brooding; the languid, half-awake Break Apart caters to the chillout/easy-listening audience; while Bambro Koyo Ganda features energy from Morocco’s Innov Gnawa; and Kerala’s undulating rhythms, pensive and purposeful, mirror the movement of a bird’s wing.
Straddling the worlds of electronica and nu-R&B, British musician Christopher Taylor’s output can be loosely divided into two separate entities. Zoom in and the electronic productions that form the skeleton of his second record come into focus: muggy, oppressive tapestries of pounding percussion and interesting sonic flourishes, from ghoulishly echoing bass to crisp, clip-clopping beats. Take a step back from the digital fiddling, however, and the bigger picture is markedly less appealing. Taylor tends to sing in the abrasively squawky style of all the cod-soulful male vocalists du jour – from Hozier to Ed Sheeran and Rag’n’Bone Man. The pose is compounded by the lyrics: in Hard Liquor, Taylor pursues genre-related imagery in lines such as “My baby don’t make a sound / As long as her hard liquor’s never watered down,” to unequivocally cringeworthy effect. Despite his obvious production chops, Sohn the popstar seems merely an uninspiring iteration of the current trend for singing an irritatingly affected brand of the blues.
It’s a long time since the Flaming Lips bothered the mainstream with the likes of Yoshimi Battles the Pink Robots; in the past decade, they’ve charted a stranger course, with freaky Beatles covers, 2013’s darkly wondrous The Terror and an unlikely bond with Miley Cyrus. More weirdness abounds on their 14th album. Described by frontman Wayne Coyne as sounding like “Syd Barratt meets A$AP Rocky”, meandering jams blur into trip-hop grooves, a narrative about “the love generation” and an actual frog chorus. However, somewhere in the haze lurks their old knack for writing great, off-kilter pop songs that reflect and escape the bewildering world around us. Cyrus props up for the sun-drenched, free festival electro vibes of We a Famly, while songs such as The Castle create a more melancholy bliss. Happiness and sadness collide most beautifully on Sunrise (Eyes of the Young), the prettiest thing they’ve done in years.
A tricky topic hoping to unearth some gold from your record libraries this week – for more on what we’re looking for, read on ...
RR regular Paul Hayes (who posts in the comments as Fuel) will select from your recommendations and produce the playlist, to be published on 12 January. He says:
I’m looking for songs specifically  released as 12” singles as well as remixes, extended versions, special disco versions, dub versions, and so on and on an’onnnn!
I want versions that make a bad song good and a good song something extraordinary.
Here is a list of all songs previously picked and therefore ineligible for the series. Our guru adds: “I’ll allow remixes of songs that have previously been listed for other themes in the RR series – if they are sufficiently different.”
You have until 11pm on Monday 16 January to post your nomination and make your justification.
If you want to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions – and potentially blog about the process/selection for the Guardian – please email matthew.holmes@theguardian.com with the subject line “RR guru”, or make yourself known in the comments.
Here’s a reminder of the guidelines for RR:
The enterprising Edition label has released fine recently graduated UK composer Ralph Wyld’s debut album, a cool but very joined-up genre-crossing venture for an unusual lineup featuring his lustrous, Gary Burton-like vibraphone sound joined to brass, clarinets, a cello, and a hip and sophisticated rhythmic section, including bassist and fellow Kenny Wheeler jazz-prize winner Misha Mullov-Abbado. The late Kenny Wheeler’s music, with its gentle symmetries of short modulating motifs repeated by contrasting instruments, has an unmistakeable influence – but so do north-European ambient methods in the cello sighs, spacey ringing sounds and luminous vibraphone chords that populate the album’s two short interludes. There’s almost a Thelonious Monkish feel to the punchy, bass-prodding Cryptogram, with the leader’s vibes improv abandoning any hint of the inhibitions of jazz/classical hybrids as he squeezes swooping double-time lines into implausibly tight spaces. Wyld won two posh British jazz gongs in one year in 2015 – the Kenny Wheeler jazz prize, and the Dankworth prize for jazz composition – and in these tracks it’s pretty evident why.
Proposals for a new world-class concert hall in London appear to be back on track after the City of London Corporation agreed to replace money withdrawn by the government.
The scheme, costed at £278m, appeared derailed in November when the government unexpectedly announced it was withdrawing money it had pledged for a detailed business case to be made.
On Thursday the City said it would be provide the money, up to £2.5m, needed to complete it.
The new building would be erected on a site next to the Barbican currently occupied by the Museum of London, which is moving to Smithfield market. The hall would become the new home of the London Symphony Orchestra under the artistic leadership of Sir Simon Rattle.
Mark Boleat, the City’s policy chairman, said: “This decision re-affirms our commitment to transform the area surrounding the Barbican into a world-leading cultural hub for the arts, heritage and learning. We have a long history as a leading investor in the arts and we recognise that culture – open and available to all – is what attracts people to visit, work and live in London and the UK.”
The hall’s supporters say London desperately needs a new concert hall or risks falling behind other cities, both inside and outside the UK.
It would also be more than a concert hall. Called the Centre for Music, it would have an ambitious educational dimension “to bring music-making to the widest possible audience”.
Neither the Barbican nor the Royal Festival Hall are considered acoustically to be in the top rank of world concert halls, but creating a new one does not come cheap or without risks.
Hamburg’s dazzling Elbphilharmonie opened this week seven years late and eye-spinningly over budget. Its cost was originally estimated at €77m (£67m). It finally cost €789m.
The new London hall’s detractors say there are better things to spend such vast amounts of money on and point to the first-rate halls in Gateshead, Birmingham and Edinburgh.
When the government announced it was pulling the £5.5m it had pledged – of which £1.25m had been spent – it said the scheme did not offer value for money for taxpayers and was not affordable.
The City decision is a sign that the hall’s supporters believe it can be built, even without government money.
In a statement, the project’s leading partners, the Barbican Centre, London Symphony Orchestra and Guildhall School of Music and Drama, said: “We are very pleased that the City of London Corporation has agreed to provide funding to complete a detailed business case for an outstanding Centre for Music in the Square Mile.
“Our vision and drive to deliver a world-class centre for the 21st century that provides access to great music to the widest possible audience remains unchanged, and we are looking forward to working with the City of London Corporation to explore how this vision could potentially become a reality.”
Composer/saxophonist Trish Clowes has focused on big-format music lately, but My Iris – a reference by this imaginative musical colour-mixer to Greek mythology’s goddess of the rainbow – foregrounds her quickwitted young quartet. Clowes’ Wayne Shorter affections steer her wraithlike soprano-sax lines over Ross Stanley’s church-organ chords on One Hour, and also her sharp-angled improv after James Maddren’s backbeat kicks in. I Can’t Find My Other Brush has the zigzagging melody and thudding bell-notes of a solo-tenor odyssey by the late Michael Brecker, Anglo-Armenian composer Cevanne Horrocks-Hopayian’s ethereal Muted Lines speculates on forced-migrants’ struggles to express the inexpressible, and the playfully old-school Tap Dance has Maddren and a cannily country-rockish Chris Montague on guitar hailing proto-jazz African American drums pioneer Baby Dodds. Clowes’s emphasis on composition, and the reserved evenness of her delivery often get her a “chamber-jazz” label, but the Englishwoman’s quirky songwriter’s ear, subtly sleepy tenor sax sound and bright intensity on soprano are anything but cerebral. She’s touring the UK from this week.
In a world of rampant populism, the description “musicians’ musician” might become even more of a backhand compliment, but if anyone can defend its virtues, it’s American guitarist John Abercrombie – a 1970s jazz-rock pioneer who then nurtured his own kind of gracefully cool small-band jazz over four decades with ECM. With Marc Copland on piano, Drew Gress on bass and Joey Baron on drums, the lineup repeats 2013’s 39 Steps, and again the tracks are all Abercrombie/Copland originals, save a single classic – here Miles Davis’s Nardis, sketched in hints and glimpses until a groove arrives. Abercrombie’s slowly rapturous melody Joy has something of the storytelling lilt of a Nino Rota theme, and on tracks such as the bass-walking Flipside and Silver Circle (the best here), they swing while hitting hardly any accent hard, though the guitarist’s yodelly low notes and quietly snarly passing notes get almost aggressive on the latter. The whole album is the quintessence of jazz power in reserve.
Derroll Adams, who died in 2000, was an American banjo-player, singer and song-writer, and one of the most colourful figures on the folk scene. He travelled across the US, met everyone from Woody Guthrie to James Dean, and worked as a duo with the legendary Ramblin’ Jack Elliott. After they toured together in the UK, Adams stayed on here to be treated as a hero in the folk clubs, and famously introduced Donovan to Dylan. These recordings from the 70s, released on CD for the first time, show Adams at his very best. His instrumental work includes a rapid-fire treatment of Muleskinner Blues, while his voice is deep and delightfully laid-back. The songs range from the traditional Darling Corey and Wildwood Flower – both helped by backing from the still-excellent British guitar hero Wizz Jones – to his own thoughtful, autobiographical compositions such as The Sky. A welcome reissue.
Jazz-rooted former pop singer Curtis Stigers has made a fine homage to Frank Sinatra’s 1966 Sinatra at the Sands album with Count Basie’s orchestra, recorded live as the original was. Stigers is much more gruff and rugged than a smoothie like Michael Bublé, as hip in his timing as Kurt Elling, if not as unpredictable – and he could hardly be in more cracking company than the Danish Radio Big Band, which catches the punchy Basie sound and the twists of Quincy Jones’s arrangements with immense aplomb. Seesawing trombone figures and ecstatically rising saxes power Come Fly With Me, Stigers slyly mimics the trumpets’ swaggering endnote shake on You Make Me Feel So Young, glides with a flute on Fly Me to the Moon and is more assertive than resigned in a bluesy, Basiesque piano company on One for My Baby. The tracks are short and the jazz breaks are few, but if this is principally a classy cover job, it’s nonetheless a sympathetic swing tribute to both Sinatra and Count Basie.
Born in France, the rock and jazz guitarist Nguyên Lê is fascinated by the traditional music of his parents’ homeland, Vietnam. He recorded a fine series of albums with Huong Thanh, and now comes a collaboration with Ngô Hông Quang, a soulful young singer who plays an array of Vietnamese instruments, including the dàn nhi fiddle. They are joined by Indian tabla, Japanese koto, and the cool trumpet work of Paolo Fresu on a sophisticated global fusion project that veers between thoughtful collaborations and atmospheric anthems aimed at Lê’s western followers. Heaven’s Gourd is a gently exquisite mix of Vietnamese lute and acoustic guitar, A Night With You, Gone is an emotional ballad enhanced by guitar and trumpet, while Beggar’s Love Song cleverly matches an ancient Vietnamese melody with a bluesy riff. An impressive set – but it didn’t need the wash of programmed effects on several tracks.
At only 34, Whitney Cummings has packed an enormous amount of success – and a few notable failures – into her career. Named one of Variety’s “Comics to Watch” a decade ago, she went on to become a regular at Chelsea Lately and at the Comedy Central roasts. In 2011, she exploded – her sitcom Whitney premiered on NBC to withering reviews, only lasting two seasons; a short-lived talkshow would follow. At the same time, she was creating and executive-producing CBS’s 2 Broke Girls, a bona fide hit now in its sixth season.
She’s set to appear at Literary Death Match during LA’s Riot Comedy festival and took time out of a busy schedule to talk writing, suffering from co-dependency and comedy in Trump’s America.
You seem like you’ve got a lot going on these days. What did you work on when you woke up this morning?
I’m writing a book at the moment. It’s a nightmare! It’s hard and it’s embarrassing. I’ve been doing standup long enough, but it felt like there was a lot of stuff that I had to say that wasn’t funny enough or just didn’t work on stage. I’ve been hoarding these stories; it’s really sort of all the most intimate stuff that I’m frankly too embarrassed to say on stage. Stuff that, if I admit it and then someone’s looking at me, I’ll just probably cry or run away. So if I just write it in a book, you can read it on a beach, and I don’t have to make eye contact with you.
Maybe I just want to be single forever, I don’t know why I feel the need to reveal all this stuff. I have a condition called co-dependence, which I developed from growing up in an alcoholic, dysfunctional home. The idea is to put other people’s needs before your own, basically, and it’s been debilitating for me. I went into recovery for it, into a 12-step program, and started doing EMDR [eye movement desensitization and reprocessing] and all this trauma therapy to try to rewire my brain.
And Lena Dunham asked me to write about something that I’ve overcome for her website Lenny Letter. And [after], people would come up to me on the street crying like, “Thank you for writing that. I knew I had something wrong, but I didn’t have a word for it.” It’s such a nefarious condition because it’s basically disguised as being nice, but it can be a pretty debilitating preoccupation with the needs of others. A lot of co-dependents don’t go to doctors and they don’t take care of themselves, and it manifests in some really scary ways sometimes. So I wrote about it and people really responded, so it encouraged me to start the book, because it’s a lot about that.
So yeah, I’m in this weird place where I’m doing all these things I’ve never done before – writing a book and directing a movie. I’m really very outside of my comfort zone.
Tell me about the movie.
It’s based on the book The Female Brain, it’s a neurology book. I came to a point where neurology started to kind of become my religion, it was the only way I could kind of make sense of a lot of the conflicts in my life. I just couldn’t believe it wasn’t taught in schools. I was trying to figure out the root of these stereotypes that women are crazy, women are too sensitive and men are stupid and violent. I was like, is there a biological basis for this? Is this nature, is this nurture? For whatever reason, that was a question that kept me up at night. And I think I was also at a point in my life where I was like, am I crazy? Maybe I am crazy. Which part of this is by choice, and which part of this is my primordial neurology? That kind of became my obsession.
I ended up writing the script with a brilliant comedian named Neal Brennan, who made The Chappelle Show with Dave Chappelle. I wanted to make sure it wasn’t just a female voice, because it’s about the male brain also. I wanted to make a movie for women and men, and then I ended up directing it for a myriad of reasons. And that’s been intense, I’ve never made an independent movie before. It’s basically a science comedy, which is very insane. I don’t advise anybody to try to make a cerebral half-documentary, half-scripted neurology thing. That’s been really all-consuming, and that’ll come out at some point this year.
What was the appeal of directing? It seems so overwhelming.
It’s a nightmare. There’s no appeal. I only did it because I knew no one else was gonna make it. No guy was gonna make a movie called The Female Brain. And you know, I’ve made TV shows, I’ve created things, directing is – you really just have to be incredibly decisive, which I am. Neal directs commercials and movies, [but], he’s said to me, nothing’s as hard as standup. So I was like, OK, if it’s not harder than standup, I guess I’ll try it. So I tried to apply the same principles of writing a good standup special to making a good movie. Doing test screenings, because I trust strangers to tell me if something’s funny. My approach was just, let’s screen it for strangers and see where they laugh. If people aren’t laughing, I have to cut it.
I’m sure this is the question that every comedian is getting these days, but how much do you feel an obligation to talk about Trump and the current political situation in your comedy, even if it’s not necessarily something you normally would discuss?
I think I’m still in shock. My whole [Twitter] feed is comics talking about this and retweeting articles and I definitely feel a pressure to talk about it, but at the same time, I don’t know if people care about my opinion on politics. I don’t believe that’s my skill, and maybe I just have low self-esteem or maybe this is a healthy take, but my thing is like, let me get out of the way so the people who actually know what they’re talking about can be heard. Let me just stick to what I’m good at, and I can speak with authority about mental illness, co-dependence, alcoholism, addiction, comedy, relationships – that’s enough. Follow Trevor Noah, follow Judd Apatow, follow Samantha Bee, that’s their wheelhouse, and I’m gonna let them do what they do best.
I don’t want to feel like I’m capitalizing on a lightning-rod topic, just to get attention. It’s like when someone dies and a celebrity who’s never met the person is like, oh I miss this person, rest in peace. It’s like, what are you doing? Are you just trying to get retweets? I just don’t think my motives are clean enough. I don’t want to be yelling because everyone’s yelling about the same thing. It feels slightly conformist. I think it’s important to know your place in the band. I’m a drummer, I’m not the singer, when it comes to politics.
So I noticed that IMDb says you were the first woman to do comedy in Dubai and Beirut. Is that true?
People are like, you performed standup in the Middle East, isn’t that scary? Like, the scariest place to perform standup these days is America. We are in the most polarized, raw time since I’ve been doing standup. I was in Napa three months ago and I was like, “Oh, Hillary’s running.” And everyone was like “Boooo!” Like, a fight broke out, six people had to be removed, people were waiting for me in the parking lot. The most dangerous place I’ve ever performed standup is in my home state of California. Now might be the most dangerous time to have opinions in the United States, because everyone’s just so emotional and have so much skin in the game. I was in San Diego, and fights were breaking out in the crowd between Republicans and Democrats, and people were kicked out. It was crazy.
I feel like I’m hearing more stories like that from comics. There was a time you could make fun of George W Bush, and even the people who like him got that it was part of the deal.
Totally. And I did The Roast of Donald Trump. I’ve been making fun of Donald Trump – we all have – for 10 years, and just bringing up his name … I mean, even if you’re supportive of Donald Trump, there’s still a lot to make fun of. Even if you’re his biggest fan, there’s a couple joke premises that you’re gonna have to be into, and I was making fun of him and this guy was like, “Fucking liberal cunt!” I was just like, you paid to come here. You knew what you were coming to see. But it’s like this third rail. Everyone so intense right now.
I know you’ve been doing a lot more acting recently, and I wonder how, as you’ve gotten more well-known for things that aren’t necessarily just your standup, how have your relationships with the audience changed? Does it feel different do do standup now that a lot more people know who you are?
Yes. Three years ago, it would have been, “it’s so much easier! Everyone knows me!” But that was before I was actually touring, and I realized people have higher expectations. Being known doesn’t get you anywhere, it just makes the bar and the expectations higher, especially if the venue wants to charge a certain ticket price because you’re known. So people are like, “I paid $60 to see you and you’re on TV. Let’s see what you got, bitch. You better be funny.” I feel a little bit of that, which is totally – I think people should have that expectation.
There’s also a little bit of pressure, because people know you, so you can’t lie. I can’t get up there like, “I’m so wasted!” People know that I’m not like that, so you can’t sort of do cheap generic stuff. I have to be very authentic. I just have to dig deeper and deeper, which is great. I think the audience pushed me to do that, which makes me better, but it’s harder. When nobody knows you, you can pretend to be anyone. You can go, “Last night, I did … heroin.” Joke, joke, joke. I can’t do that now.
And then there’s the interesting new anxiety and fear of people recording. The obligation to give an audience what they deserve and want, which is videos and photos, but also trying to maintain a modicum of privacy when you perform so that you can work on new material without it being on the internet the next day. There’s kind of an interesting challenge that I didn’t anticipate. You have to be vigilant, and then it’s tricky because then you become sort of a mom, where you’re like, “Excuse me, can you turn your phone off?” Especially with younger crowds and college crowds, which I do a lot, it’s like, how do you embrace the change and use it in a positive way and not alienate your audience, but also make sure that that stuff’s that not ready isn’t getting out before it’s good?
In some ways the orchestral music of Swiss composer Richard Dubugnon, who is 50 next year, wouldn’t seem out of place in the Vienna of a century ago: joy in the orchestra’s swooning sonic possibilities is everywhere evident in the three works recorded here. First there’s the glitter and grand gestures of five of the Arcanes Symphoniques, the deck of tarot-inspired pieces that occupied Dubugnon on and off throughout his 30s. But the real novelties are the premiere recordings, taken live in concert, of two heady settings of even headier texts by novelist Stéphane Héaume. Triptyque (1999) pits a baritone, the resonant Thomas Dolié, against lean but vivid textures, astringent harpsichord and eerie celesta cutting through wind and brass. Le Songe Salinas (2003), a nocturnal “opera for one singer” using full orchestra alongside North African instruments, is persuasively delivered by mezzo Nora Gubisch and the Orchestre National de France, conducted by Fabien Gabel.
The Harry Potter books and movies were always a little food and drink obsessed. Trawl through the kitschier corners of the web and you’ll find recipes for alcoholic butterbeer, polyjuice potion jelly shots and even a biscuit based on Ron Weasley’s jumper. More than five years after the release of the final Potter movie, fans’ passion for wizarding-related nosh also continues to inspire new eateries: this week has seen the opening of a Boy Who Lived-themed pasta restaurant in Brooklyn, New York (the Dark Lord smoothie looks fairly quaffable), and a cafe in Singapore that serves up flaming “Goblet of Fire” cocktails.
But, if Potter-related food and drink tends to be reasonably tasteful – or at least digestible - other movie branding tie-ins sound about as appetising as the vomit-flavoured sweetie in a packet of Bertie Botts Every Flavour Beans. Here are some of the more disgusting menu items from around the globe.
Quand QUICK proposait un DARK VADOR BURGER pour STAR WARS https://t.co/iFXSbkr2Wg pic.twitter.com/IvJvbm64eF
To celebrate the release of The Phantom Menace in 3D in 2012, French fast food chain Quick cooked up this grim-looking double-pattied Darth Vader tie-in cheeseburger, complete with a bun so black it appears to have been grilled over the lava flows of Mustafar. For those ill-disposed towards the idea of ingesting the recommended yearly dose of E numbers in one half-hour sitting, the restaurant also offered a “Jedi” burger, featuring extra mozzarella cubes and a standard bun.
#ghostbusters drink score! #ghosts #paranormal #LufeWithV pic.twitter.com/DjyotZ5hvx
Ectoplasm is basically gloopy, gungey ghost goo, as excreted by Slimer and his pals in the Ghostbusters movies, so the idea of quaffing a pint’s worth in order to keep you feeling perky might seem a little vomit-inducing. This did not stop the release of a themed energy drink to mark the release of the new Ghostbusters movie last year. For those desperate for a fruity-flavoured hit of caffeine, guarana, ginseng, taurine and essence of terrifying wight from beyond the grave, you can still purchase a can for just £148 on Amazon.
Here's Daniel Craig....As an ice-lolly....Wanna Lick? pic.twitter.com/QVnD3XsYZh
If your idea of a tasty summer treat is licking the naked musclebound torso of Daniel Craig in Speedo-sporting Casino Royale mode, this iced confection might just be your licence to chill. The smoothie-based lolly was launched by Del Monte in 2009 to celebrate national ice cream week, after female filmgoers voted Craig the celebrity they would most like to see on the end of a stick in what must have been a pretty weird poll. Each lolly, whether enjoyed in blueberry, pomegranate or cranberry flavours, contained just 100 calories.
McDonalds' 'Naughty Green Pork Burger' is totally freaking us out. https://t.co/CEVIY6X2ka pic.twitter.com/YUfpOmsJhU
Perhaps topping even the Vader burger for gastronomic atrocity, this Angry Birds Movie-themed meal features a bright green bun, pork patty, conveniently burger-shaped egg and spicy jalapeno sauce. Delicious, no doubt, if you keep your eyes closed while eating – because it looks like something nasty that’s been sitting in the fridge for too long. Fortunately, this evil piggy burger has only ever been available in Chinese branches of McDonald’s.
#Deadpool Inspired drinks be sold at TGI Friday (via @TGIFridays) https://t.co/yWNBQcR3fv pic.twitter.com/TxY3F5cvfo
One corporate sponsorship data firm estimated that Ryan Reynolds’ brief mention of the restaurant chain in the highest-grossing R-rated film of all time - the “Merc with a Mouth” responds: “That’s classified. They have a wonderful TGI Fridays!” when asked what he is doing in Jacksonville – was worth $785,000 in free advertising. Presumably by way of thanks, TGI introduced a range of Deadpool cocktails earlier this year, including the Fruity Spicy Drink-Thingy, which features Sailor Jerry spiced rum, fresh orange, mango puree, fresh sour, a cherry, and a Myers’ dark rum top, and the Merc Juice, made from Hornitos Reposado tequila, orange juice, fresh sour and pomegranate.
@MattChisari the irony is in the fact that Dennys did promo-menus each time a new Hobbit movie came out pic.twitter.com/n4NlE9KSQU
When JRR Tolkien dreamed up the sprawling yet gorgeously detailed fantasy world of Middle-earth before the second world war, he had in mind the creation of an epic myth for the English people. It is unlikely the donnish, pipe-smoking author ever imagined American Hobbit fans would be chowing down on hash browns, maple syrup pancakes and french toast in the name of Bilbo Baggins and his hairy-footed homunculi brethren the best part of a century later. In what must surely be one of the most off-message branding exercises in Hollywood history, US restaurant chain Dennys also included a One Ring burger and Campfire Cookie milkshake on its menu to celebrate the release of The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey in 2012. A year later it added Elven Woodland pies for an updated menu tied into the release of The Desolation of Smaug, because nothing says cosy English eats like hastily rebranded pecan and pumpkin pie. Still, the super-calorific Hobbit Hole breakfast, featuring fried egg-filled cheddar bun halves served with extra melted cheddar cheese and bacon hash browns, certainly sounds as if it would put hair on your toes.
Alan Warhurst, who has died aged 89, was one of a handful of new directors engaged from the 1960s onwards in transforming museums into the popular and socially engaged institutions they are today. The years immediately following the second world war were not kind to museums. Several had been blitzed; most suffered staff reductions and funding shortages through the late 1940s and 50s as local authorities struggled to rebuild services. But Alan, with colleagues largely from outside London, saw a way forward that was geared to family education.
An innovator, he maintained that museums should stretch their boundaries and engage local communities in wider activities such as fossil hunting and the exploration of ruins and archaeological excavation, as well as broaden their responsibilities to encompass “living history” in rural areas of historic importance. He believed in the importance of design to engage an inquisitive public of all ages and abilities, and campaigned against entry charges.
During his decade as director of Bristol City Museum from 1960, he accumulated much experience in the cause of a building that was not ultimately realised. He worked with the architect Sir Hugh Casson on researching a design that had the bombed-out shell of St Peter’s Church in its central courtyard, visiting the best museums in continental Europe and north America in the process. To work with him on this he built up a team of colleagues, including Mike Belcher, Neil Cossons and Max Hebditch, who went on to become significant museum figures themselves.
In 1970 he was appointed director of the Ulster Museum, in Belfast. Arriving just after the start of the Troubles, he saw it as a vital tool to bring diverse communities together through shared cultural activities. He oversaw the completion of a big extension, in brutalist style, which opened in 1972, but experienced the impact of violence both professionally and personally.
His family home suffered a car bomb explosion in 1974, and two years later a museum store on the city’s outskirts was bombed, leading to the destruction of its entire collection of costume and textiles. Undeterred, Alan rebuilt his house, and continued to transform the museum, whose exhibitions included one of Renaissance gold jewellery recovered from the galleass La Girona – a warship that used both oars and sails – which sank off the north Antrim coast in the storms of 1588, on its way back round Britain after the defeat of the Armada.
His final post came as director of Manchester Museum (1977-93). Part of the University of Manchester, it was again an institution in need of modernisation. Alan trained staff and ensured that advanced forensic research was undertaken to understand the causes of death of mummified ancient Egyptians and of Lindow Man – the preserved body of a man discovered in a peat bog at Lindow Moss, near Wilmslow in Cheshire. He led a programme of gallery redevelopment, winning Museum of the Year in 1987 for the redisplay of the Egyptology and botany collections, and for expanding its size and scope. An article he wrote in 1985 about funding threats to university museums led to the formation the following year of the University Museums Group, with Alan as its first secretary.
Born and brought up in Bolton, Lancashire, Alan was the son of William Warhurst, an accountant at British Rail, and Margaret (nee Holden), who came from a farming family. He was head boy of Bolton Church Institute (later Canon Slade school), and in 1947 was commissioned into the Lancashire Fusiliers from the officers training school in Bangalore, serving in India and Egypt, an experience that confirmed him in his pacifist tendencies. Graduating in history as a Hulme Hall scholar from the University of Manchester in 1950, and passionate about archaeology, he was appointed assistant curator at the Grosvenor Museum in Chester. Following posts at Maidstone Museum & Art Gallery and Northampton Museum, Alan went to Bristol at the age of 33.
He preferred a consensual approach to management, although a colleague remembers at least one occasion after he and another colleague had failed to reach agreement over the plans for an exhibition, when Alan got up rather reluctantly from his desk and said: “I suppose we should now have a confrontation meeting.”
He served as president of the Museums Association (1975-76), chairman of the North West Area Museum Council (1992-97), on the Museums and Galleries Commission (1994-99), and as external examiner of the museum studies course at the University of Leicester. In 1990 he was appointed CBE.
He married Sheila Bradbury, a teacher and psychotherapist, in 1953. She survives him, along with their children, Alyson, Frances and Nicholas.
• Alan Warhurst, museum director, born 6 February 1927; died 4 December 2016
Lisa Appignanesi writes: Quincy, in the Haute-Savoie, was not where John Berger made his first home in mainland Europe. In 1962 he moved to Geneva, where his then wife, Anya Bostock, was working. There, too, he met the photographer Jean Mohr, whose stark black-and-white images were central to several of his books. He also began to collaborate with the film director Alain Tanner, writing scripts for The Salamander (1971), The Middle of the World (1974) and Jonah Who Will Be 25 in the Year 2000 (1976).
After his first novel, A Painter of Our Time (1958) – the story of an imagined refugee artist who returns to Hungary during the 1956 Revolution – had been recalled from bookshops through political pressure on the publishers, he spent less time in London. Initially there were periods spent working with various groups of artists in Provence.
In 1974, at the start of his marriage to Beverly Bancroft, he moved to Quincy, the agricultural village in the Alps which was to remain their family home. I first met John in the same year, as one of the four founders of the Writers and Readers Publishing Cooperative. He was one of several established writers who decided that small publishing, with decision-making in the hands of those who actually made what the industry sold, was a good thing.
John enjoyed collaboration. While he did not put money into the group himself, he made its financial existence easier by not taking advances when books were published, and was there to advise, finding pleasure in going to meetings when he went to London. I imagine that it was a similar pleasure to that he took in being part of the community in Quincy, where everyone participated in haymaking, and John’s table was ever busy with neighbours deliberating on problems or engaging in that gossip which is also storytelling.
Writers and Readers started an art list, republishing John’s backlist, including A Painter of Our Time. There was also the brilliant A Fortunate Man – standard reading for all GPs – and his new books. In the ways of 1970s collectives, the organisation fell apart in the early 80s. But John and I remained fast friends. We didn’t always agree on politics, but his sense of justice was ever an inspiration and his volcanic laugh a joy. We even went on to win the Scott Moncrieff prize for literary translation together, for Nella Bielski’s The Year Is ’42 (2004).
When Losing the Dead (2014), a memoir about my parents’ war and its aftermath, came out he gave me a drawing he had made inspired by Rembrandt’s The Polish Rider. He was extraordinarily generous, and paid singular attention to young writers and artists, let alone to people needing a hand or a lift. A true listener, he said it was what his storytelling was all about. He listened with an ear for everything in the other, not only what was spoken. And he managed in his encounters and in his stories, as well as his essays, somehow to confront despair and turn it into hope.
Paul Gordon writes: The life and work of John Berger displayed an extraordinary range and power. While Permanent Red represented the writings of a young and angry man, the essays that followed, including The Moment of Cubism (1969), The White Bird (1983), About Looking (1991) and The Shape of a Pocket (2001), show a kinder writer, more humane. This is the Berger who wrote in 2005, “I can’t tell you what art does and how it does it, but I know that art has often judged the judges, pleaded revenge to the innocent and shown to the future what the past has suffered, so that it has never been forgotten.”
His novels also reached new heights of lyricism as he got older, not just To the Wedding, but the equally evocative Here Is Where We Meet (2005), in which he hauntingly imagined encounters with people from his past. Then there is the sheer daring of Bento’s Sketchbook (2011), a wonderfully unclassifiable book, about the 17th-century philosopher Spinoza (the “Bento”’ of the title), about seeing, about drawing the world.
Telling Rory Gleeson his characters are awful makes him smile. That’s a good thing: in his debut novel Rockadoon Shore, his cast of self-obsessed twentysomethings are possibly the worst bunch of people I’ve ever met. And I have met them, too many times; their awfulness does not stem from lurid villainy, but from far more conventional motivations like insecurity, sexual frustration, small knocks and humiliations. We’ve all probably met them.
Set in a tiny cabin in the Irish countryside, Gleeson’s claustrophobic story follows Cath, the mother hen, who can irritate as much as she comforts; DanDan, who initially seems fine while grieving a dead ex – until he gets over it; Lucy, who is constantly performing for, mostly male attention; the beautiful Steph, who treats men appallingly; Merc, the Irish version of an American fratboy who has traded in muscles for personality; and JJ, that guy who brings MDMA to a cottage getaway. But Gleeson’s very well written debut is fresh in its unpredictability: not one of these characters does what you think they going to do.
Their awfulness makes Gleeson smile, but it also makes him wince. “Insecurity is such a nasty thing,” he groans, ruffling his hair. “It’s terrible. Everyone is so insecure. We want people to love us, but actually we just like attention. We’ve all had those relationships where we look to others for reinforcement that we’re good and attractive. You can always tell the readers who know these characters – at one writing workshop, some people were like, ‘Oh these seem like fun people, let’s get into it!’ but there were three or four others going ‘These people are awful’.”
Rockadoon Shore switches between all six perspectives, plus a seventh: a watchful, elderly neighbour. For a debut, it is gutsy and ambitious. “Youthful folly,” Gleeson corrects. “I wanted to see if I could do it. I hadn’t seen many books where characters would pick up the story from each other. I wanted the story to belong to all of them and none of them, without anyone retelling everything. And I could do it – it just took a long, long time to edit. There were days I wanted to throw it in a fire. It absolutely wrecks your head.”
Gleeson began the book in 2013, spending two years, he says, “playing with it in my head and getting really very angry.” Writing can’t be that bad, cant it? He looks incredulous. “Oh yes it can. You’re wrecked and you hate it and you hate yourself. And then you think you’re brilliant and then people try to help you with it and the ones that are truthful are the worst because then you hate them as well.” He shrugs and says, rather ruefully: “You just smoke a lot of cigarettes and drink a lot of coffee to get through it.”
His blog, updated as he wrote, documents his love for distractions away from the page: walks, films and rather sweetly, egg painting. “Aside from visions of my old English teachers all showing up in a bus to tell me I’ve made a work of mediocrity,” he writes in one post from 2016, “what has been concerning me most over the last while is the idea that two years or so from now, I’m going to open this book that I wrote, read the first line, and think to myself, ‘Balls’.”
Gleeson, 27, has the charming, ruffled-ginger look that betrays his lineage: his father Brendan is a celebrated film actor, his brothers Domhnall and Brían followed their father into the profession. Does that mean he had complete freedom to do whatever he wanted? “I think it has to do more with their mindset than their professions. My dad was a teacher for 10 years and ma studied English. They are ‘follow your dreams’ kinds of people. They’re doing what they love, and they want me to do the same, because they know the thrill of it.”
Their household was a bookish one; every car trip and every queue saw all of the Gleeson brothers buried in a book. “It was always clear that books were always there for us to enjoy and learn from. When I was giving people a rough time as a teenager, my dad just threw Catcher in the Rye at me like a stun grenade and said: ‘Read that, it’ll make sense’.” Did it work? “Oh yes,” he says. “I stopped calling everyone a hypocrite, for one. And no one wants to be ol’ Holden.”
His first book has not come easily. Gleeson had never finished any writing, beyond blogposts and short stories. He studied psychology at Trinity College Dublin, then did a master’s in prose fiction in Manchester, as well as writing workshops at Oxford University and UEA. Publishers’ interest in Rockadoon Shore sparked and died while he was at UEA, so when he got a Canadian visa, he took off and spent six days a week in the University of Toronto’s alarmingly drab looking library (“Students call it Fort Book,” says Gleeson) and wrestled with edits. “You’re awful sad and worried,” he says of the time. “I hadn’t had anything published at all, so when it came up to giving up on Rockadoon, it felt like I’d be left with nothing. I was starting to make plans to retrain in a career,” he says like a curse. “Leave writing as a hobby for evenings and weekends.”
These days he’s resigned to the difficulties of writing. “Having something down on paper is much better than having something beautiful in your head,” he says. “I wanted to write a book about young people that doesn’t end with a car crash or an overdose. I didn’t want to start killing them, Cabin in the Woods-style, with horror tropes everywhere, because that’s how so many books about young people end.” Film director Richard Linklater is his inspiration and antidote for that: “He was able to make a lot of movies about young people that understood them on their level. In Dazed and Confused, you’re waiting the whole time for a car crash. And it never happens! It is a special and weird time when they’re between two periods of their lives and they all move on. I’ve always really admired that and wondered if that could be done in fiction.” He suddenly looks embarrassed, as if he’s gone too far in likening himself to Linklater. “I dunno, maybe not.”
One strange, welcome repercussion of Ireland’s financial crash seems to have been a boom in new fiction: the passing of its brief boom years seems to have given renewed energy to the literary scene, with Eimear McBride, Donal Ryan and Lisa McInerney being just a few of the names arriving since 2012. “Well, I think it would have been better not to have the crash and keep literature the same,” Gleeson says, sombrely. “But there is a freshness coming in that I am really enjoying. Eimear and Donal are huge for me because they’ve been ignored for a long time and they weren’t flattened and hammered by traditional publishing, they stayed technical and heartbreaking. People are breaking my heart a lot more, which I really, really like. I treasure it.”
A protege of Maria João Pires, Julien Brocal has a lot to live up to, and this disc – the first both for him and the new label Rubicon – does so beautifully. Brocal offers a thoughtful traversal of Chopin’s Op 28 Preludes, knitting together these 24 miniatures – some lasting barely half a minute – to form a coherent whole. His playing is quietly riveting, drawing the attention without grand gestures, and so focused that the melodies in ostensibly busy little pieces like No 3 and No 8 hold their stillness while the decorative gossamer accompaniment spirals around them. Only in the frantic No 16 does his composure seem rattled. He rises to the Sonata No 2 in B flat minor with the same intensity on an altogether more expansive scale, and the famous Funeral March that forms its climax is all the more tragic for its contained expression, subtly sighing phrasing and general lack of fuss.
Ask yourself this. If Liverpool or Glasgow built a stunning new concert hall, would it be not just the talk – and the pride – of the town itself? Would its opening attract the Queen and the prime minister? Would a huge contingent of the world’s artistic press come for the occasion – and would they content themselves by asking respectful questions, and even applauding, in spite of the fact that the whole project came in at €866m, overdue and over budget, most of it paid for by the city itself?
I simply don’t think that any of this would happen in the UK, even in London.
And yet in Hamburg on Wednesday evening a substantial part of official Germany – and surely everyone in the city itself – turned out in force for the opening of the dazzling Elbphilharmonie concert hall stretching high into the heavens in the former port district. Germany’s president Joachim Gauck made a witty speech, chancellor Angela Merkel, Hamburg-born before her family emigrated to communist East Germany, sat in the front row of the stalls. The mayor of Hamburg, Olaf Scholz (a social democrat opposed to Merkel), glowed with civic pride.
And they all sat through the opening concert too. Not just suffering an evening of classical music in resigned silence, as the Queen would do in like circumstances here. Not just inwardly twitching with anxiety about the political message that the event might carry, as Theresa May might in the same situation. Not to a chorus of press hostility and sarcasm about fat cats and elitism, as would happen in the UK. To watch Merkel in particular, relaxed and chatty in the foyer at the interval, happy to do what seemed an impromptu TV interview was especially striking. Given what the German chancellor has on her mind politically right now — a tricky election, the rise of Putin, the arrival of Trump, the migrant crisis — she could have been forgiven for getting out of Hamburg as soon as the speeches were done. But she stayed because she enjoys the music, because she thinks culture matters and because there is not only no problem with having such tastes in Germany but because it would probably be regarded as antisocial if she had not stayed.
I’m not saying that I wish we in the UK could be like Germany, though I certainly think we would be better off, in all sorts of ways, if we were a bit more like Europe’s most thriving nation. But it is indisputable that Britain remains far more uncomfortable with investing in the arts than most other developed nations. This reflects many different things — social class divisions most of all, education, politics and our attitude to public goods, too. More than anything, though, it reflects the lack of a shared culture, a confidence that we can celebrate, as a people and as a nation, a great building, great music or even, more generally, a cultural patrimony that makes us proud to be who we are without having to apologise for it.
Tickets are sold out for six months. The aim is that every child in Hamburg will see a concert in the first year
For sure, Germany is far too deferential for the British taste. It is too respectful, polite, orderly, above all too serious. At times, including in the course of my visit for the Elbphilharmonie opening, even I, a Germanophile, wanted to have a bit more naughtiness and surprise in the proceedings. And no British arts organisation would put seven white men on stage to conduct a press conference about a huge project – the way the Elbphilharmonie did this week – with not a woman nor a black face in sight. On social media, there is this week, certainly, a strong undercurrent of hostility to the Hamburg opening, and the amount of public money it has taken is eyewatering. But the fact remains that Germany’s readiness to spend on a project such as the Elbphilharmonie, though often controversial on matters like cost and the environment, is ultimately a unifying force.
The civic pride and pleasure now that the concert hall is finally up and running was palpable. The tickets are all sold out for the next six months. The aim is that every child in Hamburg will get to a concert within the first year of the opening. The hall has already had half a million visitors before the first notes (by Benjamin Britten, as it happens) were heard in the opening concert, broadcast live on German television.
By contrast, Britain is furtive and penny-pinching about cultural policy. Things are, for sure, better than they once were. But if you tried to transplant the Elbphilharmonie to Britain, as Simon Rattle has been keen to urge, where would you put it and how would you pay for it? Would it be yet another jewel in London’s already weighty crown, another reason for those in Liverpool, Glasgow, Bristol and elsewhere to complain the capital gets too many of the goodies while leaving the rest behind? Would it be conceived, built and opened as an embodiment of civic confidence, or as another venue for the corporate rich and the privately educated in the heart of the richest square mile in the UK? I’m all in favour of London having a really good concert hall, especially because the Royal Festival Hall is so poor and the Barbican so limited. But I’m not in favour of the capital prospering at the expense of the Hamburgs of Britain either. The Elbphilharmonie has lessons about wastefulness, but it also shows what we could do if we cared.
But the truth is we don’t care, not enough. Maybe Germany cares too much. But I’d rather care too much than too little. And it really is a stunner of a building in a city that it’s a joy to get to know.
Flo Morrissey and Matthew E White are enough to make you sick. They radiate pleasure in each other’s company and are both very much in the ascendant after recording an album of covers so good you don’t want to go back to the originals. To make matters worse, there’s a YouTube video about the making of the album that gives the impression it was more like a Netflix series about hip kids having the best summer of their lives in smalltown America than a bunch of musicians working 12-hour days to get a record made in little more than a week. As I say, sickening.
“And we cooked out every night,” White offers, “which was really nice,” completing the contrast between Instagram-filtered summer evenings in Richmond, Virginia, and a grey winter afternoon in west London, where the buskers around the corner have embarked on a seemingly endless gyspy rock/electro swing version of Jingle Bells, arranged for duelling accordions.
Gentlewoman, Ruby Man takes 10 songs and reconfigures them, more or less as duets. Some are badges of exquisite taste – the Velvet Underground’s Sunday Morning, Leonard Cohen’s Suzanne; some are unexpected curveballs – Frank Ocean’s Thinking Bout You, James Blake’s The Colour in Anything; one is a fantastic version of a song everyone loves but which rarely gets thought of as a classic – Barry Gibb’s theme for Grease, originally sung by Frankie Valli.
Still, Grease is one of those songs everyone knows, isn’t it? One you just pluck from the ether. Apparently not, at least for White. “Grease isn’t something I grew up with. It’s not something my brothers love. Not something my parents love. I have a little bit of a gap because I spent a lot of time growing up overseas,” by which he means his parents were missionaries, and he spent a good chunk of his youth in the Philippines. Morrissey seems a little surprised by the notion that anyone could have grown up without seeing Grease three times a year – “It’s one of those films that’s on when people are off school,” she explains to him, gently, as if she’s pointing out that, no, you don’t pull the string to ring the bell on the bus any more, dear – especially since it was White’s choice to record it.
“I really love those tunes that are larger than life, larger than music, but the musical craft is what makes them that way,” White says. “It’s an interesting journey for a song like that, where it’s such a killer song, but it has become almost a parody of itself. People think of it as a kitschy disco throwaway, but it’s a lot more than that.” He marvels at the fact that Gibb, asked to produce to short order a theme tune for the movie of Grease, could produce something so perfect. “That’s such a level of craft. The Bee Gees – Barry Gibb in particular – that’s part of their reputation that’s not glorified as much as it should be.”
White talks a lot about the craft. You rather get the impression that his Spacebomb studio/collective/house band is not big on laying down tracks when inspiration strikes between bong hits, so much as meticulously planning what they’re going to do and how they’re going to do it, which suited Morrissey. “I don’t even drink,” she says. “A little bit of a grandma over here.” She’s all of 22. “Sometimes I wish I could be much more spontaneous,” she says. “But I do need a plan. And I think that’s part of growing up as one of nine children.”
I don’t even drink,' says Morrissey. 'A little bit of a grandma over here
“What’s important, and this is overly pragmatic,” White says, “is minimising worst-case scenarios so you can maximise your best-case scenarios. You’re constantly making sure the bottom doesn’t fall out of a session, so you can have that mystical moment with a group of people. You have to do all these practical things so you can get to the place where all the practical stuff goes out the window, and you’re experiencing this moment of art and creation that has nothing to do with any of that.”
Morrissey and White met – as all the best people do – thanks to the Guardian. White saw a mention of her music in this paper, decided what she was doing was up his street, and contacted her. “You got back in touch,” he says, looking at her, “and it was very gradual, very organic.” A year or so on, they were scheduled to duet at a Lee Hazlewood tribute night at the Barbican in London.
“We still didn’t really know each other,” Morrissey says. “Then we went to Bob Dylan at the Royal Albert Hall.”
“The night before the Lee Hazlewood thing,” White explains, correcting the chronology. He sighs a little. “We’d have so much more fun now than we did then.”
Morrissey picks up. “So when you said, ‘Why don’t we do an album?’ it felt very natural.”
Morrissey had already released one album, 2015’s Tomorrow Will Be Beautiful – a folk record centred around her voice and acoustic guitar – but she had already decided she didn’t want to be caricatured as “a depressing girl with a guitar” before the pair started on Gentlewoman, Ruby Man. In sound, the new album is very much a Spacebomb record: lush, impeccably arranged music of the American south, dipping its toes into soul without ever quite becoming a soul record. White, she says, was very much the boss in the studio, “but in a way that isn’t over the top”. She turns to him: “You respect your musicians. You’re a mediator. You being the person who holds it all together and is the grounding force is really apparent.”
Also, she says to White, when they were out and about in town: “It felt like you were the big guy in Richmond [Virginia].”
The don, with the beard and the guitar? “Yeah, it felt like that. Which was cool for me to see.” White blushes at this, his face filling with colour. “I set it all up like that,” he mumbles.
White has to be on top of things, he says, because he’s making records to a tight budget in limited time. He likes to work from noon to midnight, with one break for dinner, and get a track a day done. The time up to dinner is spent getting the basic take, and then the time after is when the magic happens, he says.
What? Does a session really change that much in that last couple of hours?
“Oh, definitely,” he says. “One hundred percent.”
He cites the guitar solo on The Colour in Anything as an example, when Alan Parker’s late-night take won a round of applause from the rest of the team. “It was crazy,” White says. “I was crying during the take. It was completely wild. The whole record can’t be moments like that. Those moments are special and there’s a time in the day when they tend to happen more, so there are practical considerations: you need the daytime space to be focused so you can lock something in, then the nighttime space is where you are a little loose and free-flowing and can get to those moments.”
Which was all a bit of a change for Morrissey. “I’m more of daytime person. I think I’m more afraid of the night. I don’t know if that sounds weird, but I get a little bit more sad. But the night definitely does help you access something.”
Gentlewoman, Ruby Man is an album that’s going to be played a lot late at night. It’s lush and warm and enveloping; it sounds like the summer evenings on which it was recorded. It sounds like cold beer and hot food on the grill and friends lounging around on garden furniture. It sounds like the summer you want to have, but know you won’t be able to. It sounds like the best time ever. As I say, Morrissey and White are enough to make you sick.
Gentlewoman, Ruby Man is out now on Glassnote
Manchester’s proposed £110m arts centre, the Factory, has moved a step closer to being built after city councillors gave planning permission for the Rem Koolhaas-designed building.
The Factory will be erected on the site of the former Granada Studios and is seen by the city council as a game changer, one which the authority’s leader, Sir Richard Leese, has said would “make Manchester and the wider region a genuine cultural counterbalance to London”.
It is a central part of the northern powerhouse project, championed by the former chancellor George Osborne, who pledged £78m of government money in 2014, a sum which was confirmed this week following a Treasury review of the full business case.
The enormous and striking glass cube construction will be the first major public building in the UK by Dutch architect Koolhaas and his Office for Metropolitan Architecture (OMA) practice.
Ellen van Loon, the OMA partner in charge of the project, said: “From classical opera and ballet to large-scale performances and experimental productions, Factory in Manchester provides the perfect opportunity to create the ultimate versatile space in which art, theatre and music come together: a platform for a new cultural scene.”
After the vote, Leese said Factory was what Manchester and the wider arts world had been waiting for. “Factory isn’t going to just transform this unused corner of the city centre, it’s going to further transform the way we see the world, and the way the world sees Manchester.”
The council decision was welcomed by the culture minister, Matt Hancock, who said he wanted to “blast open access to the very best world-class art and culture we have to offer in this country”.
He said that was the reason for investing £78m, to “provide a further boost to the brilliant arts, culture and technology scene in the north. On top of that, it will also help local tourism, generate jobs and provide training opportunities for the next generation of British creatives”.
After the decision it was also confirmed that the building will be operated by Manchester international festival (MIF) with Mark Ball, currently artistic director of the London international festival of theatre (Lift), joining the MIF leadership team with a focus on the Factory programme.
Speaking of the appointment, MIF’s CEO and artistic director, John McGrath, said: “I have been a huge admirer of Mark’s vision as a producer and programmer since his early days at Fierce festival, and it has been inspiring to see his extraordinary achievements at Lift.
“I can’t imagine a better person to join MIF at this key moment in its history, and to ensure an exceptional, international programme of work at Factory.”
Ball called Factory “undoubtedly the most exciting and ambitious new cultural space in the country”. Construction work is expected to begin in the spring.
Even by Mozart’s standards, La Clemenza di Tito was composed in haste, commissioned for the celebrations in Prague marking the coronation of Leopold II as king of Bohemia in September 1791. The opera seria libretto was adapted from a well-used text by Metastasio, and the secco recitative might well have been composed by one of Mozart’s pupils, but after his death later the same year, it became one of his most widely performed operas. Among the many stagings was one in Vienna in 1804 for which the court music director Joseph Weigl took it upon himself to insert new material: replacement arias for Tito, as well as a duet for Tito and Sesto. Two of those numbers Weigl composed himself, another was by the Bavarian composer Johann Simon Mayr, while the others remain anonymous.
That’s the version of La Clemenza di Tito that has been reconstructed by conductor Alessandro De Marchi and recorded from stage performances at the Innsbruck early music festival in 2013. Weigl’s editorial work is not a travesty, but it’s not particularly distinguished either. Apart from De Marchi’s rather extreme tempi, both fast and very slow, the most striking aspects of the performance are the singing of Carlo Allemano as Tito and Kate Aldrich as Sesto, and the instrumental playing by the members of Academia Montis Regalis, particularly its clarinettist.
An intriguing new podcast, Hollywood & Crime (Wondery, iTunes), takes the glamour of film’s golden age and scratches its dark underbelly. The hook is the infamous Black Dahlia murder of 1947, and host Tracy Pattin uncovers other crimes and scandals from that era. Hollywood glamour was in full swing when Elizabeth Short was brutally killed. Her case remains unsolved, along with a raft of other cold cases with startling similarities that point to a serial killer or a copycat.
Pattin’s voice oozes old Hollywood, and the juxtaposition of glamour and gore is enough to send shivers down the listener’s spine. The podcast comes with a warning about graphic scenes, which is not unwarranted considering its tales of bodies cut in half and dramatised moments from the time. The first two episodes focus on the “Bathtub murder” and recount the horrific killing in 1944 of socialite and oil heiress Georgette Bauerdorf.
As the police briefing from the murder scene is recreated, it makes grim listening. “Thumb and fingermarks on her face, lips, abdomen and thighs suggest that her killer had powerful, almost ape-like, hands,” says the officer in charge of the case. Hearing about the autopsy is powerful, and when more details of the crime emerge, it takes a chilling turn. The first episode should be enough to hook you and the second – Generous Georgette – paints a picture of the young victim’s life. She came from a privileged family and enjoyed life as a socialite, cutting spare keys for servicemen, whom she welcomed to stay the night. Her friend described her as “a very proper girl”.
Fifteen months earlier, the body of another young woman, Ora Murray, was found on a Los Angeles golf course. “She had been strangled, brutalised and left face down in the grass,” says Pattin. “When her body was rolled over, deputies found she had been mutilated and her clothing shredded, and, in a grim twist, a floral corsage wrapped in tinsel was lying under the body. A white gardenia.” And so begins the next story in a new true-crime series that is dramatic, gripping and fuel for the imagination.
If you like this, try … You Must Remember This
When she first saw the script for Lion, Nicole Kidman did not know she was reading a true story. It is easy to see why she didn’t guess. The plot, for a start, is too fantastically outlandish for real life, and her part such a perfect fit that she probably imagined it had been written specifically for her. Even after the producer had enlightened her: “I still couldn’t quite believe it. Then I thought, maybe they’d fudged some of it. But no. It really is all true.”
Lion tells the story of a boy called Saroo, who was born into an impoverished but close family in rural India. His mother laboured in a quarry carrying rocks, and at night his older brother would catch a train to a nearby town to earn a few rupees lifting bales. One night, the five-year-old Saroo begged to come with him, but was already asleep when they got off the train, so his brother left him to sleep on a platform bench while he went to work. Waking in the night, Saroo found a comfier berth in an empty, stationary train carriage, but awoke in the morning to find himself trapped in a hurtling train that didn’t stop until it reached Kolkata, 1,000 km from home. Unable to speak Bengali, Saroo survived on the streets, narrowly escaping the clutches of predatory abusers before winding up in a chillingly brutal orphanage.
On the other side of the world were Sue and John Brierley, a childless Australian couple who wanted to adopt from India. One day, Saroo was put on a plane, and dispatched to a new life with them in Hobart, Tasmania. He was deeply loved, and grew up to be an ostensibly typical young carefree Australian, played in the film by Dev Patel, until a random event triggered fragments of memory and a sudden urgent longing to find his old family. By calculating the distance that fateful train must have travelled from his home, Saroo painstakingly searched thousands of square miles of India using Google Earth, until finally he spotted a landmark he recognised from his old home. With the support and blessing of Sue, he returned to India, tracked down the derelict shack that had once been his home, and there he found his birth mother, who had been waiting and hoping all along that one day her son would return. I watched the film at a press screening and, when the lights came up at the end, most people in auditorium were in tears.
Actors are contractually obliged to promote their movies, but when I meet Kidman, I get the impression that she would want to for Lion even if she weren’t. She seems to have spent most of the past month on red carpets at Lion premiers all over the world, and stops off in London for 24 hours – en route from Los Angeles to Sydney for Christmas, her two young daughters in tow – to talk about the film. Everyone always goes on about Kidman’s statuesque beauty, so I wasn’t expecting it to floor me, but when she stands to shake hands she looks more like an alabaster mannequin than a member of our species. When she speaks, however, she becomes more human than any A-list actor I have met. Kidman has described Lion as “a love letter” to the two children she adopted herself in her 20s when married to Tom Cruise, and weeps so easily throughout the interview that by the end she is asking me how I can stop myself crying, as if this were a rare and mysterious trick.
It is always nerve-racking to play a real person, she says, but her responsibility to Sue Brierley feels especially onerous because the two women have become close friends. “Sue has become very much a part of my life. Yeah, I love her.” Kidman’s tone is dreamily affectionate. “The minute we met, just the two of us in my apartment in Sydney, we just clicked. She told me so much about herself, and I told her. And she’s very tactile, Sue. So she’ll hold your hand and stroke you. She’s very warm, and loyal. And she’s very maternal.”
Kidman’s performance is not a dramatic interpretation of her character but a closely observed study. Even the clothes she wears are copied from old family photographs of Sue. “And I wanted to capture, I suppose, just the goodness in a way,” she says. Kidman’s performance conveys Sue’s limitlessly patient love for Saroo, and is sublimely moving, but some viewers may be uneasy with the uplifting portrayal of transracial, transnational adoption. Does Kidman share any misgivings about rich white people “rescuing” brown-skinned children from exotic poverty – or is it, for her, an uncomplicatedly virtuous act?
“I don’t think virtue comes into it. I mean, I think it’s just as Sue says in the movie. She had the vision, and she followed her vision, and we’re all on our own paths making our own decisions and our own choices, for whatever reason. So commenting on other people’s reasons – I don’t know, I’m always reluctant to do that. People always say, ‘What’s a happy marriage?’ or ‘Tell us what the secret is’, and I’m always reticent to say ‘Well this is how it should be’, or ‘This is what it is’, because we’re all different.”
Sue has become very much a part of my life. Yeah, I love her.
We see Sue tell Saroo in the film that, as a girl, she had pictured her future self mothering a brown child. She had adopted him not out of necessity, but choice. “I’m very similar to Sue,” Kidman says, “in the sense of having a vision, and feeling that it was just part of my path. Something, for whatever reason, I was going to do.” Kidman and Cruise have never made public their reasons for adopting, but when I ask, she means it was because she had shared a similar vision to Sue’s, she agrees: “I believe, yeah.” From what age? “When I was little. So it’s what I relate to in Sue, probably.”
The film, I suggest, must have made Kidman wonder about her two eldest children’s own birth-family history, and she smiles. “From the minute I held them, I wondered about that. Of course. Because you’re all intertwined. Your destinies somehow all come together.” Can she describe her feelings for the birth parents who inhabit her imagination? “Love. Exactly what Sue felt, which is why I wanted to play Sue. The simplicity of that love. The gift of a child. And again, Sue has that absolutely simple, loving feeling.”
In the film, before Saroo sets off to find his birth mother, Sue tells him: “I can’t wait for her to see how beautiful you are.”
“That, to me, is the most gorgeous line in the film,” says Kidman. “Because that’s the truth of it. For me. Because Saroo has two mothers. He has his adopted mother, and his biological mother. But there are two of them. One made him, one raised him.” She seems almost lost in a reverie, but when I ask if this is how she and her two eldest make sense of their own maternal histories, she collects herself. “I’m getting into too personal things now. Their own lives, their choices. But their love is profound.”
Mystery has surrounded Kidman’s relationship with her adopted daughter and son ever since her marriage to Cruise ended, and they chose to grow up with their father in the scientology church. Most reports allege that they shunned their mother and remain estranged to this day, but this has never been confirmed by either child or parent, and it would feel both intrusive and pointless to ask Kidman to break decades of silence.
Another legacy of Kidman’s marriage to Cruise is her stratospheric fame. A bride at just 23, and divorced by 34, nothing she has done since then could explain why, at 49, she is worth so much more to the celebrity gossip industry than, say, Julianne Moore or Meryl Streep. Her 33-year career features a string of art-house films and theatrical productions, but just one commercial blockbuster – Batman Forever – and Kidman won her Oscar for playing Virginia Woolf in a prosthetic nose. I wouldn’t be surprised if half the fans who will buy any mag with Kidman on the cover have never even seen her act. I ask if she is happiest playing unglamorous characters such as Sue, and her face lights up.
“I love it. I’m a character actor, that’s what I see myself as. That’s who I am. I mean, I had a director say to me the other night: ‘Oh my gosh, your art-house choices are so brave,’ and I’m like, ‘I don’t even see it like that.’ They’re literally just what I’m drawn to.”
Kidman has chosen to live a long way from Hollywood, in Nashville, Tennessee, where she claims that no one ever bothers her or her family. This sounds implausible, but she swears it’s true. “The town is so protective of us. It’s amazing. I find people very, very generous to us. Very kind. And we’re also a very private family. Do you know what my kids look like?” I do not. “Right,” she laughs, with some satisfaction. Her husband is an Australian country and western singer, Keith Urban, and it occurs to me that living in the capital of his industry and not hers helps to correct the power and status imbalance between the couple.
“Yeah,” she agrees emphatically. “I love that.” Because he can be the famous one and she can take the back seat? “Yes! I’m very happy to do that.” She says she’s happiest being “grungy – you know, no makeup, hair pulled back” – and when she took the family cats into her daughter’s classroom for pet day recently, her daughter’s “main concern was that I would show up with my hair wet, pulled back in a bun with no makeup and wearing my gym gear”.
This sets her off crying. Urban, she says tenderly, is “a very stable energy” in the family – “He’s a rock,” but her role is “very much the glue. I mean, I hate to say but, yeah, you’re the heartbeat of the family. Keith says it. The girls say it. They just like it when I’m home. There’s just that female energy in the house, which is powerful. And I’d love to say that Keith could create it in the same way, but I don’t think that he does. The girls don’t say that he does. It’s all about the details, right? Which I remember from my own mum and dad. My dad would forget to cut our sandwiches in the middle – just little things, but when you’re little it all counts, right?”
Kidman adored both her parents, and the memory of her father’s death in 2014 from a heart attack soon has her in tears again. Having experienced both sudden and protracted bereavements myself, I’m curious to know which she thinks worse, but she’s too puzzled by how my eyes can stay dry when I ask the question to reply, and instead we end up analyzing the role of emotional detachment in our respective professions.
In the weeks after we meet, the gossip columns run a new report about Kidman almost every day. She’s trying for another baby! Kidman rules out having more children! She’d love to have another one but says she’s too old! Only one made me pause and wonder. According to the tabloids, Kidman and Urban are applying to adopt a child from India. It is probably nonsense, of course, but it would be no great surprise if it turned out to be true.
• Lion is released in the UK on 20 January
Tom Hanks played six different characters in Cloud Atlas, Eddie Murphy played seven in The Nutty Professor and Alec Guinness notched up eight in Kind Hearts and Coronets. But James McAvoy sets a new benchmark with his new movie, Split. He plays Kevin, a man with at least 23 distinct personalities – not all of them nice. This presents extra challenges for the young women Kevin has abducted and locked in his basement. Every time he walks into the cell, they have to work out who they are dealing with. Is it “Dennis”, the frowny, buttoned-up neat-freak? Is it “Patricia”, the prim, English-accented governess? Could it be “Hedwig”, the nine-year-old Kanye West fan? We don’t get to see all of Kevin’s alter egos, but enough to get the picture and to make this lurid little horror stand out from the crowd.
Split’s writer and director, M Night Shyamalan, professes to having had a lifelong fascination with dissociative identity disorder (DID), formerly known as split personality, or multiple personality disorder, and frequently mislabelled as schizophrenia (which is an entirely different condition). He is clearly not the only one. DID is relatively rare in real life, but we have all heard of it, and we all think we know what it entails because cinema and television seem to be obsessed with it.
You can see the appeal: DID is a condition that lends itself to extremes of behaviour, conflict, torment, secrets and mysteries – everything a juicy drama requires in one character. Unfortunately, those dramas have tended to be horror movies and psychological thrillers, which has not really helped us understand the condition.
So many movies in these genres have used DID as a dramatic driver or a “gotcha” twist, it would be spoiling most of them just to mention their titles in this context (cough Fight Club cough). One conspicuous example old enough to spoil, though, is Alfred Hitchcock’s Psycho, ostensibly based on real-life serial killer Ed Gein but essentially a murder mystery with a DID twist. “He began to think and speak for her, give her half his life, so to speak. At times he could be both personalities, carry on conversations. At other times, the mother half took over completely,” explains a doctor at the end of the movie. Psycho is a horror masterpiece but as a portrayal of a real-life mental-health condition, it’s nonsense. Just as autism in the movies makes you a maths genius, so DID makes you a “psycho”.
The connection between DID and horror was made before cinema was even invented. In 1886, Robert Louis Stevenson published The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde, a multilayered literary classic that is, in essence, a study of an extreme DID case: a respectable Victorian gentleman and a bestial monster residing in the same body. Stevenson denied any real-life inspirations for the story, but that same year, Frederic Myers, a founder of the Society for Psychical Research, published an article on what he called “multiplex personality” (a more prescient description than he could ever have known), citing two well-known French cases of the time, Louis Vivet and Felida X. He sent Stevenson a copy. Stevenson’s wife also maintained that the author had read a scientific paper on “sub-consciousness” at the time.
An English actor named Richard Mansfield quickly acquired the rights to Jekyll and Hyde, and within a year was performing the dual role on stage in both the US and in Britain. His performance was apparently so convincing that, for a time, Mansfield was suspected of being Jack the Ripper.
Jekyll and Hyde has been dramatised countless times since, on stage, screen and radio. Fredric March’s 1931 portrayal is still considered the definitive version; others to take on the challenge have included Boris Karloff, Christopher Lee, Anthony Perkins, even Robbie Coltrane. Next up, we have the enticing prospect of Russell Crowe as Dr Jekyll in the Tom Cruise-led reboot of The Mummy.
Jekyll and Hyde’s DNA runs through movies such as Psycho and Split, but, the more you look, DID themes can be found across the entertainment landscape. Movies about demonic possession, werewolves, vampires – all are stories of two personae within one body. And what about superheroes? The Incredible Hulk is essentially a comic-book update of Jekyll and Hyde. Many others live as two discrete identities: Clark Kent and Superman, Peter Parker and Spider-Man, Bruce Wayne and Batman. There’s Tolkien’s Gollum, who struggles to retrieve his former hobbit self, Sméagol. Harry Potter’s psyche is fatefully connected with that of his arch-enemy, Voldemort, who shatters his persona into pieces. Even Eddie Murphy’s Nutty Professor, come to think of it.
Special mention must go to the Farrelly brothers’ Me Myself and Irene, an ill-fated attempt to render DID as comedy. Jim Carrey did his best portraying a nice-guy cop who literally wrestles with his Dirty Harry-like alter ego for the affections of Renée Zellweger, but the laughs proved hard to come by. What’s more, the movie was criticised by mental-health experts for repeatedly referring to Carrey’s condition in such misleading terms as “involuntary schizoid disorder”.
Shyamalan, whose parents were both doctors, has clearly done some reading up for Split. He gets the name right for a start, and roots Kevin’s disorder in childhood trauma – which is often the trigger for DID. He also includes Kevin’s psychiatrist in the narrative, although she is too interested in how Kevin’s condition could “unlock the potential of the brain” to check if he is abducting young women. DID can actually change the chemistry of the human body, she believes, which doesn’t bode well when one of Kevin’s personalities believes he has supernatural powers.
At least Shyamalan knows he’s going out on a limb. “I wanted to take something scientific and psychologically proven and keep going with it,” he explained recently. “The first two, three steps have been proven, then the next one was not proven, but it’s a question. Do you believe it, what I’m suggesting?”
Movies such as Split can be extremely damaging, argues Dr Simone Reinders, a neuroscientist studying DID at King’s College London in collaboration with universities in the Netherlands. “They make it seem as if patients with DID are extremely violent and prone to doing bad things. This is actually not true and it very badly misrepresents the psychiatric disorder. Individuals with DID definitely do not have a tendency to be violent; more a tendency to hide their mental health problems. I’m very concerned about the effects that the movie will have for patients with DID, and how the general public will now see these patients. There’s already a lot of stigma and scepticism concerning this specific disorder.”
DID is a contested condition. Some professionals have argued it does not exist at all, others that multiple personalities are brought on as a result of therapy. Certainly there have been cases where the condition has been faked or misdiagnosed. Reinders’ research seeks to understand the condition through, for example, neuroimaging – scanning the brains of people with DID. Despite the condition’s worrying “psycho” portrayal, Split’s notions about altering body chemistry turn out to be close to her findings: “With some of my patients, I asked two identity states to listen to a text, and my research has shown that in one state, the blood flow in the brain is different to the other identity state in response to this text. So it is true that the neurobiology is dependent on the identity state that the patient is in.” Some of her patients show different abilities in different personas, such as the need to wear glasses or handedness.
There is another side to DID in the movies: away from the far-fetched genre fiction, a number of film-makers have instead sought to dramatise real-life cases. Intriguingly, where the former category is overwhelmingly dominated by men – usually violent ones – the latter is more of a women’s genre. In 1957, two movies concerning women with DID were released: the pulpy Lizzie, based on a novel by Shirley Jackson (she dismissed the adaptation as “Abbott and Costello meet a multiple personality”), and the vastly more successful The Three Faces of Eve, which made a star of Joanne Woodward. Her character is a demure, dutiful housewife, “Eve White”, but then “Eve Black”, a more flirtatious persona, takes over and destroys her life, before a third persona “Jane” resolves the conflict.
From today’s perspective, the movie says more about postwar attitudes to gender than the human mind, but The Three Faces of Eve was based on a real case study: a woman named Chris Costner Sizemore. The screenplay was co-written by the psychologists who treated her. She revealed her identity in the 1970s, and died last year. When she signed away the movie rights to her story, the studio made Sizemore give three different signatures, one for each persona.
Fifteen years later, in 1973, the US was gripped by the bestselling Sybil, “the true story of a woman possessed by 16 separate personalities”, which detailed her treatment by a psychiatrist named Cornelia B Wilbur. Sybil, whose real name was Shirley Ardell Mason, became something of a celebrity and a controversy. Her case was later alleged to be a total sham, cooked up by Wilbur and Mason, the latter of whom confessed to lying about her multiple personalities. But Sybil sold more than six million copies, and Mason was portrayed very effectively by Sally Field in a hit 1976 TV miniseries. Joanne Woodward played the psychiatrist.
Others have followed in this reality DID vein. In 1990 Shelley Long portrayed Truddi Chase – an abuse victim who developed multiple personalities (the real life Chase reduced Oprah Winfrey to tears when she appeared on her show). Tammy Blanchard played Sybil in a 2007 remake. Halle Berry played both leads in the 2010 movie Frankie and Alice (the former a black stripper; the latter a white racist), again based on a true story.
All of these portrayals have brought DID into the mainstream to the extent where we have even had a primetime sitcom with a twist. In United States of Tara, Toni Collette’s various colourful personae present challenges to family life. Or, in the latest small-screen manifestation (another spoiler alert),  Mr Robot – a so-very-now hacking thriller whose protagonist, portrayed by Rami Malek, turns out to have been an unreliable narrator owing to his mental-health issues.
The makers of both United States of Tara and Mr Robot consulted health professionals, and sought to reflect the condition as accurately as possible – with mixed results. Collette’s characters were judged as implausibly showy by real-life DID patients, though they praised the show’s compassion. Another reviewer with DID praised Mr Robot (anonymously, because “patients who have made themselves known to the media have had very negative experiences”, he pointed out) for increasing understanding of the condition. “Where else can I witness thousands of people engaging with the raw struggle that makes up my day-to-day reality?” But he was disappointed by press coverage that used words such as “deranged”, “breakdown” and “damaged”.
Let’s be honest, though, promoting greater understanding of mental illness has never been the priority for the entertainment industry. Another explanation for the fascination with DID could simply be that actors love it. They could not ask for a better way to demonstrate their range. And it often works. March won an Oscar for his Jekyll and Hyde; as did Woodward for The Three Faces of Eve. Sally Field won an Emmy for Sybil, Toni Collette an Emmy and a Golden Globe, among others, and Rami Malek and Christian Slater have won shelf-loads of awards for Mr Robot. Even Halle Berry won a few minor gongs for Frankie and Alice.
James McAvoy deserves praise for Split, too. Despite its ludicrous premise, he does a fine and fearless job of selling his character’s varied personae. There’s even a showreel-worthy moment towards the end where he cycles between different personae in one scene. It’s a little like the T-1000 at the end of Terminator 2. But there are no special effects here, just acting.
When you think about it, that’s what acting is. It is adopting another persona. Actors feign dissociative identity disorder for a living, for our pleasure. So, in effect, DID isn’t just an obscure, misunderstood condition; it’s the foundation for the whole vast entertainment industry that so often misrepresents it.
Split is released in the UK on 20 January
Spoiler alert: this piece contains spoilers for Sherlock, Mr Robot and Pitch.
Anyone who thought Mary Watson’s time in Sherlock was up when a treacherous secretary fired a bullet through her chest must have been gobsmacked to see the latest episode of the whizzy detective drama. There was Mary, sans bullet wound, offering encouragement and advice to her bereaved husband John. Was it one of Sherlock’s narrative-resetting, “actually I’m not dead after all” twists? No. Instead, Mary was the latest in a long line of characters not letting their own passing prevent them from a bit of additional screen time.
TV can’t move for living dead people these days. There’s Nicola Walker in detective drama River, sporting a great gaping head wound as she traipses around after her grieving ex-partner. In Taboo, Tom Hardy’s 19th-century adventurer finds himself mentally tortured by a vision of his former slave. Rami Malek’s paranoid hacker Elliot has long back-and-forths with his dead dad in Mr Robot, while Pitch’s female baseball star receives nuggets of sporting advice from her own deceased pa. Even EastEnders isn’t immune, as a dying Peggy Mitchell hallucinated her old sparring partner Pat Butcher in her final moments. Indeed, at this stage it would be easier to count shows that don’t feature a character having a chinwag with their deceased friend/lover/family member/pet hamster.
Of course, from Macbeth’s Banquo to Randall and Hopkirk (Deceased) and The Sixth Sense, showing a character interact with a dead person has long been a prominent dramatic device. For the most part though, these appearances tended to be framed as supernatural: spirits returning to haunt old acquaintances. The difference with the contemporary strain of talking dead is that they tend to exist only in the mind of their protagonist, a psychological projection to provide catharsis, closure, or sometimes just a bit of lively chatter.
On paper, the dead person vision is an effective way of showing something intangible. Depicting grief on screen can be hard, both for the actor and the writer, so using a tidy shortcut is understandably tempting. The problem is that the trope’s overuse has nudged it into cliche. We all know exactly how the dead person vision will pan out. The dead person appears to the living person to help them work through something monumental. Because the dead person is aware of the deep truth about the living person, they’re almost always an insufferable know-it-all, prone to saying things like “I see you’ve finally figured it out” while lying on a chaise longue reading the newspaper. These people aren’t just dead, they’re dead smug. Then when the living character has finally realised what was causing them such angst, the dead character disappears for good, leaving the living person staring into space and looking confused.
This isn’t to say that the “dead person vision” can’t make for great art. Mr Robot’s visions are intrinsic to the show’s scratchy paranoid quality, with Christian Slater’s barked pronouncements acting as an extension of Elliot’s frazzled psyche. And Mad Men used the trope to create a weird and wonderful coda to the episode Waterloo, as Don witnessed an all-singing, all dancing musical number performed by the recently deceased Bert Cooper. (And no one should ever complain about getting more Bert Cooper.)
These are outliers though. In less adept hands, the resurrection of dead people has become lazy and obvious. It favours tidy resolutions over emotional complexity. It should be consigned to the TV scrapheap along with “it was all a dream”. So please, Sherlock and TV writers everywhere: leave the dead buried.
Anna Kendrick is set to play a female Santa Claus in Disney’s new movie written and directed by Marc Lawrence, according to Variety.
Currently titled Nicole, the story involves Father Christmas chucking in the towel on presents delivery and his son getting cold feet at the prospect of taking over. This leaves Kendrick to don the big red suit and get the reindeer in reins.
Lawrence, who wrote Sandra Bullock vehicle Miss Congeniality, last directed Hugh Grant comedy The Rewrite. Kendrick is about to shoot Pitch Perfect 3.
Claus’s daughter is less of a folkloric figure than his spouse, but she has been present in Christmas literature for more than 100 years.
In an 1892 play, she is called Kitty and asks her father to give her the gift of another man, while in a revisionist 2000 novel, she is called Noel. She is the heroine of The Legend of Holly Claus, in which the heart of the infant daughter is frozen on account of a curse, shortly after birth.
On TV, the narrative has usually involved Claus’s daughter – variously christened Kristen, Mary and Annie, seeking to escape the North Pole. In Slavic literature, such a figure, called Snegurochka, is often seen accompanying her father.
• This article was amended on 31 January 2017 to make clear that The Legend of Holly Claus is a book and Holly Claus is the main character.
The number of female directors working in Hollywood has fallen, according to a new study.
In 2016, just 7% of the top 250 films were directed by women, a fall of 2% from the year before. The annual report from the Center for the Study of Women in Television and Film found that the number was also behind the figure achieved in 1998.
“I would say I’m dumbfounded,” Martha Lauzen, executive director of the center, told Variety. “It is remarkable that with all of the attention and talk over the last couple of years in the business and the film industry, the numbers actually declined. Clearly the current remedies aren’t working.”
The study also found that 35% of films employed no women in key roles behind the camera, such as writer, producer, executive producer, editor or cinematographer. Women also accounted for just 3% of composers. Documentaries and dramas were more likely to employ women while action films and horrors were almost exclusively male. Films with female directors at the helm employed a greater percentage of women in other positions.
Films released in 2016 from female directors included Jodie Foster’s Money Monster, Sharon Maguire’s Bridget Jones’s Baby, Mira Nair’s Queen of Katwe and Andrea Arnold’s American Honey. The year before saw two big hits from female directors: Sam Taylor Johnson’s Fifty Shades of Grey and Elizabeth Banks’s Pitch Perfect 2.
The next 12 months promise to be a better year for women behind the camera with new films from Patty Jenkins (Wonder Woman), Niki Caro (The Zookeeper’s Wife), Sofia Coppola (The Beguiled) and Lucia Aniello (Rock That Body).
It was one of 2016’s weirder musical phenomena: the sensation that huge chunks of the singles chart sounded oddly but irrefutably like the xx’s 2009 debut album. It was strange, not least because the xx’s debut album was so unassuming: packed with hushed, inward-looking songs, it sounded like music that was trying to avoid catching your eye, as if it was locked in an intense, personal conversation and didn’t want to be disturbed. You might have expected it to garner critical acclaim, to win the Mercury prize, to inspire a raft of other black-clad indie bands, all of which it did. But the notion of it exerting an influence on the kind of unashamed pop artists that tweenagers feel impelled to scream along to seemed no more likely than the notoriously reticent members of the xx turning up on Ant and Dec’s Saturday Night Takeaway and pranking unsuspecting members of the public. And yet, seven years on, the album’s fingerprints are also all over the list of 2016’s best-selling singles: you can hear its muted, echoing guitars on everything from the Chainsmokers’ Don’t Let Me Down to Shawn Mendes’ Stitches to Zara Larsson’s Lush Life. “Their ‘hauntingness’ gets referenced in at least every other [writing] session,” noted Ryan Tedder, songwriter by appointment to Taylor Swift, Ariana Grande, Beyoncé and Adele, among umpteen others.
But if the xx’s debut album cast an unexpected shadow over manufactured pop, it also cast a shadow over the trio themselves: 2012’s Coexist had its moments, but it was audibly the sound of a band who had emerged with a sound, mood and image fully formed, now trying to work out how to move on and develop, and settling for doing more of the same, only quieter. But somewhere in the five years between Coexist and its successor, they appear to have cracked the problem. Perhaps they worked out that if your singers have voices as distinctive as Romy Madley-Croft and Oliver Sim – for two people with a remarkably understated and unshowy vocal style by modern standards, they’re immediately recognisable – it allows you to shift and change your sound without losing your identity. But from the opening moment of its opening track, Dangerous – a blast of dancehallesque synthesised horns over a beat that marries the steady bass thud of house to the skipping snares of two-step garage – I See You pulls off the feat of managing to sound both exactly like the xx and unlike anything they have done before.
It’s tempting to suggest that what’s happened here is that Jamie Smith – the member of the trio with the parallel career as a DJ, remixer and dance producer – has taken more control of proceedings than previously, or at the very least, that the band have opened up their sound to the wide patchwork of musical influences found on his 2015 solo debut, In Colour. Even the tracks that cling most doggedly to the sparse blueprint set out on their debut album feel richer and fuller than before: the ballad Performance and closer Test Me both keep lapsing into silence, but the former is decked out with a genuinely inventive string arrangement, where violins drone and arc behind the vocals like feedback, while latter is built around a swirl of scattered vocal samples and electronic noise that builds into a spectral, unsettling climax.
While the album still revolves around Madley-Croft and Sim’s intimate vocals and the kind of distinctive Madley-Croft guitar lines that pop artists spent much of last year ripping off, I See You is noticeably more sample-driven than its predecessors: loops of vocals (in the case of On Hold, from Hall and Oates’ 1982 hit I Can’t Go For That (No Can Do)) abound. Elsewhere, there are four-to-the-floor beats chugging along at the same pace as tropical house (another genre that appears to have drawn on the xx’s reverb-heavy sound and Smith’s love of a steel-pan sample) and A Violent Noise, on which the emotional impact of Sim’s lyric about disillusionment, fear and isolation in the middle of a dancefloor is heightened not just by Madley-Croft’s brief, affecting appearance in the role of concerned friend (“I hope you silence the noise”), but also by the musical backing. An icy synthesiser melds with her distorted guitar, playing something that sounds not unlike the hands-in-the-air riff from an EDM hit echoing beatlessly around an empty club: the effect is to drain it of its euphoria and leave something strangely melancholy in its place.
The presence of a song about disillusionment, fear and isolation in the middle of dancefloor should perhaps alert potential listeners to the fact that, however much their sound may have broadened, the emotional tenor of their songs remains largely the same. Despite the presence of the uncharacteristically sunlit I Dare You – an xx song that Shaun Mendes or Zara Larsson could conceivably cover, rather than just nick the sound of – no one’s going to return their copy of I See You to Amazon on the grounds that it’s insufficiently yearning and fragile. But rather than seeming hackneyed, another trudge over well-trodden ground, the lyrics really hit home. You don’t need to know that Brave for You addresses Madley-Croft’s late parents to feel its emotional weight, nor do you need to be up to speed on Sim’s issues with alcohol to empathise with A Violent Noise’s weary, troubled attitude to hedonism. Sometimes, the effect is not unlike that of an ancient disco track like Odyssey’s Native New Yorker or Jackie Moore’s How’s Your Love Life Baby? – warm, widescreen music and melodies amplifying the ache in the lyrics. Say Something Loving pits its depiction of a relationship in crisis against a lovely, rolling, dubby rhythm track and samples of bouffant-haired 70s soft-rock duo Alessi. It’s an old trick, but, like the rest of I See You, it really works.
It was a film I couldn’t wait to watch again, and when I did, the epiphany I should have had the first time presented itself. Is Ryan Gosling the new Debbie Reynolds? In Singin’ in the Rain, Reynolds plays Kathy, the would-be stage star who gets a bit hoity-toity with Gene Kelly about favouring legitimate theatre over his silly old movies: then she is hugely embarrassed, on jumping out of a cake at a Hollywood party as part of the entertainment, to see Kelly in the audience grinning cheekily at her.
Fast forward 60-odd years to 2017 and Ryan Gosling is Seb, in the comparably gorgeous musical romance La La Land, a struggling jazz musician who has just boorishly refused to accept congratulations on his performance from smart, pretty Mia, played by Emma Stone. Later, at a Hollywood poolside party, she is vastly amused to see super-serious Seb humiliatingly earning a buck as part of an 80s-style cover band, and mischievously calls out a request for A Flock of Seagulls’ I Ran, thus forcing Seb to play the lengthy synth break. Yet the humbling of Seb is more akin to Gene Kelly’s sudden aghast sense that he has gone too far in mocking Reynolds.
Writer-director Damien Chazelle’s allusion to Singin’ in the Rain is like the rest of his film: wonderfully judged, funny, romantic and charming. Chazelle plays out the seasons of Seb and Mia’s heartwrenching love affair, beginning and ending with winter, and incidentally engages in his own love affair with Los Angeles, where in some ways it seems always to be summer – except when it’s snowing in your heart. It’s a primary-coloured homage to classic movie musicals, an act of ancestor worship, splashing its poster-paint energy and dream-chasing optimism all over the screen.
La La Land seeks its own place somewhere on a continuum between Singin’ in the Rain and Woody Allen’s Everyone Says I Love You. There’s a tablespoon of Jacques Demy’s musicals, and something of the male-female dynamic in A Star Is Born. The director may also have been inspired by Alan Parker’s Fame for the opening sequence, in which a bunch of young kids with big dreams, symbolically stuck in a traffic jam on the freeway leading to Los Angeles, get out of their cars and stage a whopping dance number.
Gosling’s Seb is a lonely guy in LA, a conceited musical purist who has just spent his last penny trying and failing to open a jazz club in the city. He meets-cute with Stone’s Mia, stuck behind her car in this same traffic jam, while she looks through her pages for an audition she’s got later in the day. He pulls out to overtake with much male aggression; she gives him a glare. They are destined to meet again.
Stone has never been better: superbly smart, witty, vulnerable, her huge doe eyes radiating intelligence even, or especially, when they are filling with tears. Her audition scenes are 100% joy, especially the montage of her trying out for the part of cop, then ER doctor, then inspirational teacher: “No Jamal – you be tripping.” Stone is where the audience finds its emotional connection to the film; she mediates between them and Seb’s inner life, and with the daunting city of LA itself.
As for Gosling, he is excellent in his own way, an actor who has deepened a great deal since venturing into comedy. He is tough and sardonic, with a way of trying to conceal how hurt he is – or how in love he is. Like Stone, he is not a natural singer, yet there is something very real and human in the way they handle the songs. They are both very accomplished dancers in the shrewdly limited choreographed framework laid down for them.
Perhaps it shouldn’t rate a mention, but Seb and Mia aren’t shown having sex; there isn’t even a scene in which the camera tactfully absents itself from a steamy prelude. There is a kiss. And you see them living together. But, unlike any other kind of Hollywood movie, La La Land never needs to insist on its leads continuing to fancy each other. All its sensuality is projected upwards and outwards: into dance, into song, into the complex drama of their life choices pulling them apart.
There’s a moment when Seb and Mia are strolling through the Warner Brothers back lot when she points out the window from which Ingrid Bergman and Humphrey Bogart looked out on to Paris in Casablanca. It’s not too much of a stretch to put Stone and Gosling in that league, tough and tender respectively.
The painful and irreparable wrongness of life is the theme of Kenneth Lonergan’s superbly acted new film about grief. It stars Casey Affleck as Lee, a guy who lives on his own in Boston, working as a janitor and seething with poisonous rage at the world and himself. Lee returns to his hometown after the death of his brother Joe to find to his astonishment that he is now legal guardian of Joe’s teenage son.
This is about life as it is lived in the real world, with unassuageable pain, loose ends untied, life lessons unlearned. Life with no narrative closure. Lee bears the burden of a terrible tragedy, which explains his exile from the place where he grew up; the current situation appears to offer the familiar trope of an unsympathetic guy poignantly redeemed by the responsibility of parenthood and odd-couple friendship with the quasi-child. Yet things don’t work out anywhere near as cleanly as that.
This film has already been hailed as a masterpiece and I think it is, though of a more conventional kind than Lonergan’s previous movie, Margaret. Manchester By the Sea sees him assume the self-aware weightiness of an Arthur Miller or a Eugene O’Neill, but blends this with some wonderfully played comic scenes, and even uses some trad jazz over a scene transition that is rather like Woody Allen. And as in Seinfeld, there is no hugging or learning. After a fire-related disaster, Lee still manages almost to burn the house down by falling asleep with a pan on the stove. It is a brilliant moment of abject horror.
The Massachusetts hometown of the title looms oppressively over Lee. It is a port dominated by the fishing industry. There is no seaside, no beach. It is a place of work. Yet the nearest that Lee comes to smiling is when he goes out on his brother’s boat. When Lee gets word that he must come back, it is an almost primeval confrontation. To use his own phrase, it is as if he must “beat” this place and what happened here. Lee once lived in Manchester By the Sea with his wife Randi (Michelle Williams) and their kids; his brother Joe (Kyle Chandler) lived there with his own wife Elise (Gretchen Mol). They had a boy, Patrick, played by Ben O’Brien as a little kid; Lucas Hedges makes a tremendous troubled 16-year-old Patrick in the present day. Both Lee and Joe came to be separated from their wives.
Anger pulses from Lee’s thin, shrewd face, with clenched teeth that resemble angry little white squares like tiny tiles. And anger radiates also from the grumpy tenants whose apartments he has to fix. He sees them at their grumpiest, absorbs the feeling and sweats it from his pores. Affleck compresses and dams and forces the anger, anger that can’t quite find release in tears, except – nearly – at the very end, when Lee tells his sort-of son Patrick he is getting a place with a spare bedroom. There is a kind of dark, self-harming eroticism in the way Lee goes to bars, ignores attractive women coming on to him, and instead finds men to fight.
Lonergan intersperses the action with the flashbacks that jab agonisingly into Lee’s mind. Joe suffered from a heart condition and an unspeakably painful hospital scene replays the moment in which he gets the diagnosis, which may also be the moment when Elise walks out on him for good.
Hedges gives a glorious performance as Patrick, the teenager who finds that tricky Uncle Lee is now his dad. He is a mixture of vulnerable, clueless and precociously worldly. When Lee shows up in the town to tell Patrick that his dad is dead, it is as if he is making a reckoning with a younger, freer version of himself.
Manchester By the Sea is a sombre and wintry film, and in fact the sheer arctic chill is what delays the funeral and creates the important, though hardly palliative interval in which the drama can take place and feelings can be worked through, as far as that’s possible. It is a movie composed in an inexpressibly sad minor key.
‘What’d you buy for me?’‘I’m gonna make you pasta con le sarde, and purpi alla carrettera for after.’Exquisite, but deadly. Montalbano gave her a hug.
The Terracotta Dog, Andrea Camilleri
---
There are few characters who eat as well as Inspector Montalbano. While he is out solving murders, his incredible housekeeper Adelina fills his fridge with the most delicious sounding dishes: tender octopus, rich, nutty cakes, fish fresh from the sea. I am hardly surprised: I have never eaten quite so well as when on holiday in Italy. Each time I have been lucky enough to go - a life-changing visit when I was 12, a road trip with a friend 10 years later, a wedding a couple of years ago - it is the food I come home speaking about.
This pasta is a Sicilian classic - one that speaks of culinary influence from the Middle East (the nuts, sultanas and saffron), and of the Mediterranean sea, never far away when in Sicily. It is the work of no more than 15 minutes, the sort of thing you can come home to after a long day at work, relying mostly on ingredients you might already have in your cupboard. If you have access to fresh sardines, do use them, but tinned ones work well too. They’re a favourite ingredient in my kitchen, great mashed onto toast, and the star in this pasta dish. I know it’s not particularly pretty, but it’s a dish that has filled me with joy on these cold January days; a nod to a place I long to visit again.
This May I’m returning to Italy with my family. We have much to celebrate: a couple of 30th birthdays, a 60th, my stepfather visiting Europe for the first time since I moved over. We’re staying in houses with kitchens, keen to take advantage of local markets. We’ll drive around and explore new towns, we’ll read books in the sun, and we’ll get far too competitive over board games. But most of our time there will be given over to food. It normally is, when we’re all together.
Serves 2
Ingredients 40g breadcrumbs 2tbsp olive oil 1 brown onion, finely diced 4 anchovy fillets 50ml white wine 1tbsp tomato paste 120g sardine fillets (in spring water, or olive oil) OR 150g fresh sardine fillets, chopped 1 small bulb fennel, finely sliced (wild fennel is ideal, but harder to get your hands on outside of Italy) Pinch saffron threads 40g pine nuts 20g sultanas 250g bucatini or spaghetti
Equipment Large saucepan Knife and chopping board Frying pan Wooden spoon Colander
1. Fill your largest saucepan with water and put it on to boil. Tip the breadcrumbs into the frying pan and toast over a medium heat until golden brown. Set aside.
2. Warm the olive oil in the pan and fry the onion until soft. Add the anchovies, and cook with the onion until they melt. Add the white wine, and allow it to bubble away for a moment. Stir in the tomato paste, until the onion is coated with the anchovies, wine and tomato.
3. Stir in the sardines, fennel, saffron, pine nuts and sultanas. Cook over a low-medium heat for 10 minutes, ensuring that you cook the sardines through if they are fresh.
4. Meanwhile, cook the pasta to the packet directions, ensuring you drain it while it is still al dente. Reserve a mug full of the cooking water in case you need it to lubricate the pasta and sauce.
5. Tip the pasta into the sauce and stir it through. If it is a little dry, add some of the cooking water and a dribble of oil, and stir again.
6. Top each portion with the toasted breadcrumbs and serve.
There will be two jolly presenters, 10 amateur contestants, one winner and lots of encouragement for the nation to get painting – just don’t call it The Great British Paint Off.
The BBC has launched a new primetime show in which contestants, including a retired optometrist and a former astrophysicist, undertake a six-week artistic boot camp to improve their painting skills before someone is crowned overall champion.
But the BBC insists that the show is not an attempt to fill the void left by the loss of The Great British Bake Off.
“I don’t know whether Bake Off was there to encourage people to bake, I think it is a different show,” said BBC Arts’ head of commissioning Mark Bell. “This is an arts programme but it is absolutely designed to go beyond the core arts audience.”
The new programme is called The Big Painting Challenge, not to be confused with the BBC’s last amateur painting competition show of the same name presented by Una Stubbs and Richard Bacon in 2015.
Bell said it was “a good title” but the new programme would feel “like a completely different show”.
The main change is the levels of instruction provided. The 10 contestants will be divided into two teams led by mentors Diana Ali and Pascal Anson, who will pass on tips and tricks that the BBC hopes will encourage viewers to think about a trip to the art supply shop.
Bell said the programme felt “fresh, exciting and different … Having this instruction element running through the series makes it a really impressive show.
“Getting actual tips on how paintings are made, ways in which you can improve your own technique, encourages engagement and participation in picking up a paintbrush. The objective of this series is to engage people, to engage them actively in the process of making art.”
The show will be presented by Mariella Frostrup and the Rev Richard Coles, former member of the Communards turned broadcaster. Each episode will take contestants to different locations, including Whipsnade zoo and the Queen’s House in Greenwich, and ask contestants to produce two pieces of work in different disciplines, whether portraiture or landscape or still life.
The programme follows in a long line of participatory painting programmes, from ITV’s Paint Along With Nancy in the 1970s to the unlikely to be repeated Rolf on Art series from 2001-07. Between 1998 and 2001 there was Hannah Gordon’s Watercolour Challenge on Channel 4, while on Sky Arts there has been portrait and landscape artist of the year programmes presented by Frank Skinner and Joan Bakewell.
The judges for the new BBC show are Lachlan Goudie and Daphne Todd – who were also on the last Big Painting Challenge – and David Dibosa.
Frostrup said the show was “a wonderful showcase for those many gifted artists who aspire to making a career of their painting, often receiving little or no recognition for their efforts along the way.
“Being the daughter of an amateur artist, I’m all too aware of the frustration and commitment required to keep going. It was fascinating to witness these 10 amateur artists work their brushes into a frenzy and see their work develop impressively.”
The show, which will air on BBC1 on Sunday evenings from mid-February, was among those announced on Thursday by BBC Arts.
Alan Yentob’s Imagine series continues and will include programmes on Marlon Brando, Maya Angelou and Havana. There will also be BBC Arts documentaries profiling Terry Pratchett, Phyllida Barlow, Paula Rego, Chrissie Hynde, Vera Lynn, Francis Bacon and the photographer Dougie Wallace.
The art of photography will be celebrated with a season of programmes on BBC Four, including a documentary telling the story of Howard Carter, who captured images during the excavation of the tomb of Tutankhamun.
Design for older people might conjure images of clunky beige mobility aids, kitchen gadgets with oversized rubbery grips and those glamorous unisex Velcro shoes long advertised in the back of Sunday supplements. But, as a new exhibition at London’s Design Museum shows, it doesn’t have to be like this. The future of ageing is more likely to involve robotic underwear, sentient digital companions and fridges that stock themselves, if a new generation of inventors have their way.
Thirty years ago, when the Design Museum began in the boiler house of the V&A, one of its first exhibitions was New Design for Old, curated by designer Helen Hamlyn to showcase products designed to help older people stay independent in the home. The futuristic projects included a radical design for a bedside table by a young Sebastian Conran, which was adjustable in height and – gasp! – incorporated a clip-on telephone attachment and a reading light. Three decades on, the 60-year-old Conran is back with another bedside table. This time, it is a piece of smart furniture developed in collaboration with Sheffield Robotics, which follows you around the room, responds to voice commands and can even communicate with a wearable device that alerts relatives if you have a fall. And when you’re sick of its obsequious interfering, you can just tell it to go away.
“Our way of thinking about the elderly has shifted radically,” says the curator of the New Old exhibition Jeremy Myerson, who for the last 16 years headed the Helen Hamlyn Centre at the Royal College of Art, a research group focused on design for our future selves. “The change is not just in terms of what’s possible technologically, but how we now think about ageing. People are staying active in society and the workplace for much longer, and it’s about time our products and services caught up.”
The world is getting older, fast. At the turn of the millennium, there were more people in Europe aged over 60 than under 16 for the first time. In just over a decade, half of the UK population will be over 50, and there are already more than 500,000 people aged over 90. The “new old” are tech savvy, mobile, often still in work, and simply won’t put up with clumsy plastic loo seats and excessively padded shoes any more. “This is the rock’n’roll generation,” says Myerson. “They know about design and they’re demanding more.”
The exhibition covers a broad spectrum of innovations, from practical things that are already in production, to speculative future-looking scenarios and inventions of questionable benevolence.
Silicon Valley poster boy Yves Béhar has two projects in the show that ooze can-do Bay Area futurism. One is a fantastical undergarment that uses military technology designed to help soldiers carry heavy loads in the battlefield: it gives you a boost when you try to stand up or sit down. Developed in collaboration with robotics startup Superflex, it incorporates pods packed with sensors and little motors that pull cords in the fabric to give you extra support, reacting to the body’s movements and adding muscle power to complement the wearer’s strength.
As well as these power pants, Béhar has developed an emotionally intelligent digital companion, with Intuition Robotics, that’s designed to tackle loneliness among older people. Looking a bit like a drunken coffee maker, the ElliQ lolls its head to and fro, blinking its cyclopian eye and alerting you when members of your family have posted a picture on social media that you might like to see, or suggesting activities to keep you busy. It might not seem like much of a substitute for a human companion, but a survey commissioned for the exhibition surprisingly reveals that a quarter of us would prefer to be cared for by robots in old age rather than by people – a proportion that rises to a third among young people.
Does Generation Z really feel closer to its smartphones than its fellow humans? Design and innovation consultancy Ideo has extrapolated our automated, screen-focused, algorithm-driven world to a dystopian extreme, presenting an ageing scenario worthy of an episode of Black Mirror. It imagines what might happen if digital assistants, such as Apple’s Siri and Microsoft’s Cortana, became even more sophisticated, entering our bloodstream in the form of nanobots and helping to guide personal decision-making for our entire lives.
“It would discern how our friends, family and colleagues keep us socially connected, mentally stimulated and physically active as we get older,” says Ideo’s blurb, explaining how “Spirit” would ultimately direct you to meet people who would be good for you, by constantly monitoring your emotional reactions and comparing your profile with others. “What if your instincts could objectively be right?” they ask. “What if they could act in your physical, mental and emotional best interests, supercharged by powerfully accurate AI?” Run a mile, I’d suggest, before their facial recognition software ensnares you.
Next door, minimalist industrial designers Sam Hecht and Kim Colin have conjured a physical mock-up of what such an algorithmically driven home might look like. After trying to help his 87-year-old father order a replacement tumble dryer – and quickly discovering that our appliance supply and installation system isn’t very octogenarian-friendly – Hecht started to imagine what it might be like if a company like Amazon became a property developer and turned its hand to supplying and maintaining domestic products and services.
He describes older people of the future as a demographic that’s already comfortable banking, communicating and managing healthcare online. “So,” he says, “it is not a far stretch to imagine communities of people relinquishing the servicing and procurement of their domesticity to a technology company.” You surrender all your data – the contents of your fridge, the frequency of your washing cycles – to them, and they maintain your daily life in return, robotically servicing your appliances from cavities behind your walls. “It doesn’t become a question of when something breaks,” says Hecht. “It is invisibly fixed before you even realise it is broken, without someone even entering your home.” With Google-owned Nest already peddling connected smart appliances, and Facebook turning its hand to property development, it’s a scenario that’s already tangible.
Elsewhere there are driverless cars, clever responsive insoles to help people who have problems keeping a steady gait, and BMW factories with adjustable seats on cushioned floors – as well as a genius new three-wheeled mobility scooter by corporate giant PriestmanGoode, which also designs aeroplane cabins and tube trains. The love child of a kid’s microscooter and a granny’s wheelie shopping trolley, its Scooter for Life combines active mobility with storage and compact efficiency. It is designed to keep people agile and fit for longer.
“Inclusive design is thankfully becoming like sustainable design,” says Myerson. “It should be a given for everything, not a specialist niche.” This engaging and provocative exhibition gives comfort that our future selves are in capable hands – but also cautions us to question where those hands are coming from and what they’re really after.
• New Old: Designing for our Future Selves is at the Design Museum, London, until 19 February.
Having missed out on the 1930s, Michel Houellebecq is perfectly suited to the age of Trump. The war of ideologies, religious fundamentalism and sexual dystopia are well-worn Houellebecq themes, but under them like an ostinato runs the death of western liberalism: the full Spenglerian decline. As he explains in “A Last Stand Against the Free Market”, “We reject liberal ideology for failing to show the way, or a route to reconciliation between the individual and his fellow beings.” As snappy aperçus go (and bear in mind, that’s a line of poetry), it’s not quite “We must love one another or die”. Long-windedness, however, is the least of Houellebecq’s problems.
The poems collected in Unreconciled tack between rhythmical grumbles about the state of the world and more straightforwardly sensory epiphanies, Baudelairean ennui permitting. Most are untitled, and few cross the page. As a rule, modernity is an enemy. Houellebecq is one of those who suspect the invention of the fridge has been bad for the soul: “A well-cleaned kitchen; / Ah! This obsession with kitchens!” The ascendancy of the domestic has repercussions for masculine high-mindedness too: “Hollow, decayed discourse; / The opinions of the woman next door.”
No better, by way of spiritual improvement, is the “porn cinema” of “Love, Love”, with its audience of “wheezing pensioners” toiling their way to erotic gratification. Worse still, “There was no story line”. The supreme pleasure of love, Baudelaire thought, “lies in the certainty of doing evil”, but Houellebecq’s cosmic vision will take some fine tuning before his crew of banal old onanists achieve much moral grandeur. Window shopping in a red light district, Houellebecq is an amateur sociologist turned sweaty-palmed punter:
A few chavs threw menacing looksAt the loaded babes and the dirty mags;Some executives were consuming; their only function.And you weren’t there. I love you, Véronique.
In his essay on Baudelaire, TS Eliot describes the poet’s feelings of spiritual superiority over the Parisian bourgeoisie: unlike the hollow souls of the crowd, at least the poet was “man enough to be damned”. Houellebecq settles for a more worldly superiority: “In the almost empty metro / Filled with semi-gaseous people / I entertain myself with stupid, / But potentially dangerous games.” Over the course of these poems he indulges daydreams of killing himself, becoming a Muslim or joining a sect; perhaps one of his blacker moods is responsible for the “blood of disembowelled neighbours” we encounter in “Distribution – Consumption”.
The various female figures who come and go are cyphers – not even semi-gaseous – and the Houellebecq clan doesn’t sound too promising (“My dad was a solitary and barbarous cunt”). Even with this raw material, Houellebecq’s agonies and ecstasies pass off like bubbles in a martini, transient and lacking in intoxicating aftereffect. Small victories are always possible, however, as when a poem braves the tyranny of political correctness to call a girl with Down’s syndrome a “mongoloid” (mongolienne: it’s offensive in French too.)
Window-shopping in a red-light district, Houellebecq is an amateur sociologist turned sweaty-palmed punter
Something in very short supply here for a satirical writer is laughter. As the callow exaggerations of Houellebecq’s political gestures suggest, times of crisis are both a boon and a bane for satire. Shelley insisted poets were the unacknowledged legislators of the world, but satire allows for a more pessimistic slant on the artist’s calling, as when Peter Cook described the inspiration for his comedy club, the Establishment, as “those wonderful Berlin cabarets which did so much to stop the rise of Hitler and prevent the outbreak of the second world war”. Perhaps, deep down, satire – even satire as dyspeptic and unillusioned as Houellebecq’s – is parasitic on what it attacks. In American poetry, the Houellebecq-resembling Frederick Seidel has ploughed his own contrarian furrow (as in the poem “Trump for President!”), but the suspicion remains that he is a Manhattan liberal in deep camouflage. Occasionally, the combination of bibulousness and fatalism in Houellebecq is reminiscent of Peter Reading, but for all his attempts to conceal it Reading was a warmer and more generous soul than the Frenchman.
Houellebecq’s poetry has been translated before, as The Art of Struggle (2010), and while Gavin Bowd’s versions eliminate annoying small errors, the French text’s prosy rhythms slip into English without much fuss. By and large, the poems of Unreconciled serve up a flatly recognisable world, untroubled by the vertiginous abstractions of postwar poets such as Jacques Dupin or Michel Deguy. Houellebecq’s very availability is a dubious virtue, however. Coming on top of his erotic abjection, his melancholy railway station platforms and retail outlets suggest a Larkinesque dimension, but Houellebecq’s closing cadences have little use for wistful regret (no “Hautes Fenêtres” here.) Cliched anomie reigns. Poems peter out rather than conclude.
The great Yves Bonnefoy died last year, and Houellebecq doesn’t exactly shine in a straight comparison with that modern master. Then again, he doesn’t do much better when read alongside Alain Mabanckou, Valérie Rouzeau, Oscarine Bosquet, or any of the many excellent poets extending the French-language tradition today. “My God, how insipid is man!” he grumbles to himself at one point. Where the author of Unreconciled is concerned, these ineffectual poems offer no strong incentive to disagree.
• Unreconciled: Poems 1991-2013 is published by William Heinemann. To order a copy for £14.14 (RRP £16.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
US drummer Jaimeo Brown is fascinated by how musical history can be the glue of a community’s life. An imaginative contemporary artist with wide horizons and a game-changing jazz approach, he has lately been exposing his ambitious studio work to the challenge of mixed-media live performance, dramatically unveiled by his Transcendence trio at Ronnie Scott’s this week.
As the house lights dimmed, a screen showed a silhouette dancing on a fog-shrouded railroad, accompanied by the hammer-rhythm chant of African American labourers from an early field-recording. Brown’s Transendence trio – with synth player and guitarist Chris Sholar and alto saxophonist Jaleel Shaw – steathily arrived, and the drummer launched a thudding hip-hop groove under Shaw’s clipped and wailing sax motifs. African images swirled behind them – fragile boats on wide rivers, processions of elephants, figures dancing and working and sleeping – as Shaw’s electronics set his alto harmonising with itself. The voice of Martin Luther King, railing against black America’s poverty, thundered across the soundscape, followed in a step-change of context and pitch by the work-chant of Japanese women, and Shaw began playing warm, unplugged jazz phrasing and quiet pad-flapping sounds.
The versatile Sholar veered into a classic Chicago blues guitar hook amid the sound of violent storms, and anthemic ensemble ascents swelled to orchestral force.
Readers of these descriptions might sniff cultural tourism, but this felt the diametric opposite: a unique contemporary jazz venture fuelled by palpably passionate commitment to match its creators’ imagination and skill.
Anna Tsybuleva took first prize in the Leeds International Piano Competition in 2015. The 25-year-old’s win came as a surprise – the concerto final may have been a lacklustre affair as a whole, but there were at least two other pianists who gave more interesting performances than her rather unfocussed account of Brahms’s Second Concerto.
Tsybuleva’s Wigmore Hall appearance was her highest profile date in the UK since that Leeds win. Her programme, of Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach, Schumann, Medtner and Debussy, looked to be nicely wide-ranging, and wide enough, one hoped, to reveal some of the qualities that presumably she had shown in the earlier rounds in Leeds to justify her success.
But that enlightenment never came. Tsybuleva’s incoherent, safety-first treatment of Bach’s quirky F sharp minor Fantasia, with its stream-of-consciousness sequence of ideas, could have been put down to nerves at the beginning of her recital, but the impersonal account of Schumann’s Etudes Symphoniques that followed was much harder to explain away. There was none of the sense of fantasy that convincing Schumann performances require, nothing that brought the music to life.
The second half was a little more encouraging. Medtner’s G minor Sonata had plenty of the necessary flashy fingerwork, though not much of the structural coherence its Lisztian single-movement form really demands. Three Debussy preludes, followed by L’Isle Joyeuse, sparkled intermittently too, though rhythms were still blurred, and keyboard colours muted.
If Tsybuleva really has a musical personality that can engage an audience, she showed far too little of it here.
An ambitious year-long programme of lectures, debates, music and performances examining the meaning of life and death will be launched at the Southbank Centre in London on Monday with a talk by the renowned physicist Stephen Hawking.
The Belief and Beyond Belief festival is intended to explore what it means to be human in the 21st century with a wide range of participants from faith communities as well as those of no faith.
Hawking, whose speech will reference his 75th birthday on 8 January, will discuss some of his lifetime accomplishments and launch an app, Stephen Hawking’s Pocket Universe: A Brief History of Time. However, for health reasons, he will not appear in person; instead a pre-recorded speech will be broadcast at the Southbank Centre.
The festival, which runs until December, includes eight themed weekends on subjects such as the search for the meaning of life, religion and war, how we live with death, and science versus religion.
Keynote speakers throughout the year include Mona Siddiqui, AC Grayling, Colm Tóibín, Julian Baggini and Karen Armstrong. The London Philharmonic Orchestra will explore the festival’s themes in musical performances.
Jude Kelly, artistic director of the Southbank Centre, said the festival was “a landmark investigation into what it means to be a human in the 21st century. In a world of both secular and religious convictions, the current polarisation of faiths, deficit of happiness and rise of mental health issues suggests we are struggling with a wider discussion of spiritual and community life.”
A poll published on Thursday confirmed the generational shift in attitudes among the UK population towards religion. Commissioned by the Faith Research Centre, it found that 31% of 18- to 24-year-olds agreed that “Britain is a Christian country”, compared with 74% of those over the age of 65.
Four in 10 young Britons agreed that “Britain is a country with no specific religious identity”, compared with 20% of over-65s. However, a majority (52%) of young adults said it was important that UK politicians and policymakers had a good understanding of religion in the UK.
Kelly told the Guardian: “It’s not useful to refuse to grapple with the meaning that religion has in people’s lives. Even if you’re not religious in a conventional sense, there is a huge spiritual aspect in being human.”
For non-religious people, she added, there were few places in which to discuss the meaning of life and death, “to share doubts and sift through feelings”. Also, it was rare for believers and non-believers to come together to discuss such “profoundly important” themes.
The festival, which has taken 18 months to plan, incorporates poetry, film, dance and music as well as lectures and workshops, Kelly said. She hoped it would attract “a broad audience”, adding: “Not one of the speakers we approached turned us down because they felt [the festival’s themes] were inappropriate. Everyone agreed it was opportune.”
Belief and Beyond Belief launches on Monday 16 January and runs until December 2017.
Last night, BBC2 launched Common Sense, a sort of soap-box Gogglebox, in which Britons comment on current affairs. A couple who run a butchers shop chat about fracking. Three octogenarian women do a gentle exercise class while discussing whether Theresa May needs to get a move on with Brexit. A pair of male nail technicians shoot the breeze about the Trump-Putin relationship.
Common Sense is one of TV’s attempts to address a growing sense of crisis in the provision of journalism. Falling audiences for – and declining faith in – traditional reporting is often attributed to a so-called “post-truth” environment, in which fact has little impact on opinion.
Post-truth, though, is only a third of the problem. In All Out War, Tim Shipman’s tremendous book on the EU Referendum, the Remain team makes an alarming discovery during a focus group with potential voters in Doncaster. The convener of the meeting reports urgently to London mission control: “People had absolutely no idea what the EU was, or how it worked at all, to the point that it beggars belief. No one had ever heard of the single market, or knew about what it did ... [they] have literally no idea what you’re on about. Literally no idea.”
All journalists and politicians should pin that quote to their walls or foreheads. The Doncaster anecdote suggested the existence of a “pre-truth” population that does not follow news at any level.
The mainstream news media, though, cannot be too pious. Their coverage of recent major events has often proved to be anti-truth. This was inadvertent – a result of metropolitan bubble-think, dodgy opinion polls and, in broadcasting, strict rules of impartiality – but the consequence was that the real stories were missed.
Anyone watching the main news bulletins in the UK over the past 18 months would have got the impression that the first election of Jeremy Corbyn, the Brexit victory and the Trump presidency were impossibilities until almost the moment they occurred.
Common Sense answers this by going to the source: real people saying what they really think. The concept presumably came from the BBC wanting to tap in to the energy of Twitter, chat-rooms or radio phone-ins. But Victoria Derbyshire, on BBC2 in the mornings, already delivers that powerfully – and on her show, people can talk about events that just happened. In contrast, hot topics on Common Sense included stories that were a week or more old: the Queen being mistaken for an intruder by one of her soldiers, Tony Blair’s re-emergence in UK politics, and a fluffy survey about how many hours the average Briton spends in a bad mood.
This distance from what people are genuinely talking about is partly a result of the time required for editing. But it also comes from the editorial caution and impartiality to which the BBC is constitutionally bound. The problem with Common Sense is that the best conversations about news events this week in Britain were almost certainly either grossly defamatory or savagely partisan – two forms of discourse obviously problematic for a BBC on the verge of coming under the regulation of Ofcom. In the opener, one person made a passing reference to ancient gossip about the love life of the Duke of Edinburgh, but that was as edgy as it got.
One reason the show has to be moderate is that it has no moderator. Ruth Jones’s voiceover identifies the news events and speakers but otherwise makes no intervention. The drawback of this decision is that, if a contributor gets something wrong, the only options are to cut the line or transmit it unchallenged.
For example, when discussing Donald Trump’s tensions with the US intelligence agencies – in connection with last week’s private meeting, rather than yesterday’s sensational press conference – a market trader suggested that he should watch out because President Nixon was forced out of office by the “Secret Service”, proving that you “don’t mess” with them.
Although there are numerous conspiracy theories about the Watergate scandal, it has never been suggested that the President’s resignation was a result of being nobbled by his bodyguards, and nor was that what the speaker meant to say. A phone-in host would intervene, “Hang on, mate…”, but Common Sense has given itself no method of correction.
The biggest test is whether – if it had been going out during the last two years – the show would have given an early warning of the public undercurrents that led to victories for Corbyn and Leave. I suspect that the raw footage might have done, but that the transmitted show – edited to meet BBC anti-bias guidelines – would have been as misleading as the rest of mainstream media coverage.
Unless Common Sense can get closer to real-time news, and catch the scabrous and speculative nature of real street speech, it threatens to be no more than an out-of-focus group.
Visiting Stonehenge becomes ever harder. You have to book ahead as if it were a swanky West End show, endure a visitor centre when what you really want to do is commune with the mysterious past – and when you do finally get your chance to walk around (not among) the stones, you need to assiduously ignore the hum of traffic from the heavily congested nearby A303.
That, at least, is going to change. The government has decided to go ahead with a tunnel that will take this very busy road underground for 1.8 miles, removing the horrible stream of honking traffic from the visible surroundings of Stonehenge, and so making it much easier to concentrate on the wonder of Europe’s greatest neolithic monument.
Archaeologists are understandably delighted... oh wait, they’re up in arms. Campaigners claim the road project will wreck the extraordinarily rich and complex archaeology of the area. “We have recently started to realise that the standing stones are just a beginning,” protests Dan Snow, president of the Council for British Archaeology. “They sit at the heart of the world’s most significant and best-preserved stone age landscape. The government’s plans endanger this unique site.”
This is a battle between the aesthetic and the archaeological. The A303 really is a monstrous intrusion into the immediate landscape of Stonehenge. A tunnel will make the site more peaceful, more romantic, more emotionally powerful. It should therefore make it much easier to appreciate the grandeur of Stonehenge. How can that be a bad thing?
It is true that modern research keeps expanding Stonehenge in time and space, until experts can see the stones just as the tip of an archaeological iceberg. One study has even explored the acoustic archaeology of the site. Above all, instead of seeing Stonehenge as an isolated stone structure in the middle of an empty Wiltshire plain, archaeology now conceptualises it as part of the “Stonehenge Landscape”, a multilayered ceremonial space extending far beyond the stone circle itself and including everything from lost henges to barrow tombs. It seems this really was an incredibly important place in ancient times.
But archaeologists are putting fashionable theories before the pressing need to make Stonehenge a better place to visit. It may not be just a stone circle – but it does include the world’s most impressive stone circle, and it needs to better presented. Researching the past is important, but so is making it accessible to modern eyes. Stonehenge has been blighted by the A303 for too long. This and other modern intrusions make it impossible to see it as John Constable or Thomas Hardy did, as a bleak romantic marvel.
The very name Stonehenge suggests romantic bleakness, for it comes from Anglo-Saxon and means “hanging stones”. Medieval people must have thought it had a gallows-like darkness out there on Salisbury Plain. The chronicler Geoffrey of Monmouth attributed this strange marvel to the wizard Merlin. In Romantic art it is a remote secret, and in in Hardy’s Tess of the d’Urbervilles a place lonely enough for a fugitive to take refuge.
The 20th century changed all that. Modern blights from busy roads to army manoeuvres to mass tourism have made it much harder to experience the mystery and magic of Stonehenge.
These angry archaeologists can’t see the stones for the sonar studies. It is actually not news that Stonehenge is part of a vast ancient landscape – the antiquarian William Stukeley observed as much in the 18th century. He published vivid drawings of such nearby monuments as the Cursus, a huge ceremonial earthwork. Yet the sculptural and architectural authority of Stonehenge itself, those silent yet eloquent stones, can touch us across time in a unique way. Putting the A303 underground will get us closer to this ancient power.
Hamburg’s new concert hall is Germany’s latest austerity-defying architectural bobby-dazzler. But what about the music? How do you mark the opening of a lustrous new hall that is now, after all the arguments and the overspend, the pride of Hamburg? The conventional thing to do would be to programme a mighty work of the heavens — Beethoven’s Ninth, Haydn’s Creation, or maybe throw down the gauntlet with a specially commissioned new piece.
Thomas Hengelbrock and his renamed NDR Elbphilharmonie Orchester took a different approach for an opening night attended by German president Joachim Gauck, who made a speech, and chancellor Angela Merkel – back in her native city for the occasion – who didn’t. The opening ceremony interwove speeches and a tribute to Hamburg’s two native musical giants, Mendelssohn and Brahms, with the Roy Blas overture and the finale of the second symphony respectively.
But the main concert that followed was above all a tribute to Hengelbrock’s imagination and the possibilities of the hall. The first notes, floated from up in the balconies, were Britten’s oboe invocation of Pan, from the Ovid Metamorphoses, a beguiling choice. This opened a sequence, skilfully managed by Hengelbrock to avoid interruptions for applause, of modern and late-renaissance pieces — Dutilleux then Cavalieri, Zimmermann followed by Praetorius, Liebermann eliding into Caccini, with the countertenor Philippe Jaroussky caressing the notes from high in the hall. The closing movement of Messiaen’s Turangalîla brought the first half to a storming close.
Hengelbrock pulled a second sequential trick in part two, opening with a perfunctory account of the prelude to Wagner’s Parsifal which exposed the limitations of the home orchestra, before moving without a break into Wolfgang Rihm’s new orchestral song cycle Reminiszenz. Commissioned for the occasion in honour of the Hamburg writer Hans Henny Jahnn, and stylishly sung by the tenor Pavol Breslik, Rihm’s characteristically eclectic setting of some notably bleak texts then gave way to the least bleak of all musical settings, the finale of Beethoven’s Ninth. Hengelbrock’s account was business-like rather than truly joyous but a fine quartet of soloists including Sir Bryn Terfel gave the account something special to grace what is without question a hall to celebrate.
Margaret Thatcher has been added to the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography, commanding more space in the venerable reference work than any other Briton apart from Shakespeare and Elizabeth I. Eclipsing records for Queen Victoria, Winston Churchill and Henry VIII, historian David Cannadine’s biography of Britain’s first female PM is the third longest of the 60,000-plus entries in the 72m-word work.
Thatcher’s listing details her rise to power, from Lincolnshire grocer’s daughter to global political force during the cold war. Cannadine is robust in his 30,000-word assessment of Thatcher’s career, noting that as well as being one of the few politicians to lend their name to a political doctrine – Thatcherism – her blunt approach to leadership led to ferocious clashes from the miners’ strike to the poll tax riots. Her front and backbenchers in parliament knew a leader who it was punishing to cross.
Cannadine, who is the ODNB’s general editor, concludes his assessment: “There are times when nations may need rough treatment. For good and for ill, Thatcher gave Britain plenty of it.”
As with the other 214 lives recorded in the latest additions to the ODNB, Thatcher died in 2013. Entries are always posthumous and feature persons of note from Roman Britain to the 21st century. Editors wait four years after the death of a notable figure to assess whether they are worthy of a place in what is effectively the canon of British public life, whose first edition was in 1885.
Among other new entries to the ODNM, which is available free online through public libraries, are six Nobel laureates. As well as the poet Seamus Heaney and novelist Doris Lessing, they are chemists Frederick Sanger and Sir John Cornforth, economist Ronald Coase and Robert Edwards, who received the honour in 2010 for pioneering work on in vitro fertilisation.
Among notables from the arts and entertainment world to have found their place in the dictionary are writers Tom Sharpe and Iain Banks, TV personalities David Frost, Alan Whicker and Good Life star Richard Briers. Comedians Mike and Bernie Winters and writer Eddie Braben, famous for writing the scripts for Morecambe and Wise.
Notoriety, as well as repute, can be qualification for inclusion in the dictionary. Two of the Great Train Robbers have been added. Though Ronnie Biggs played only a minor role in the 1963 robbery, his name has been added because his subsequent escape to Brazil as a fugitive from justice turned him into a “money-making celebrity”. His partner in crime Bruce Reynolds, who was the mastermind of the heist, has also been added to the collected lives.
The dictionary moved online in 2004 and has since become available to library users throughout the UK. Published by the Oxford University Press, it is a research tool for Oxford University and makes no commercial return on the £25m investment in its creation.
Norma Jean Martine’s drive is not in question. Rejected by American Idol and the casting directors of Broadway musicals in her teens, she moved from her native New York to London and has racked up co-writing credits on songs as varied as the title track on a Ronan Keating album and an Italian Eurovision entry.
It’s a scattergun CV to make you wary, but thankfully Martine possesses a formidable talent. Having shoehorned a full band into a space the size of a small bedroom in this tiny venue, she ploughs through a self-penned set that is bewilderingly eclectic and rarely less than engaging. Her default mode is knowing, husky-voiced blues-pop in the Joss Stone vein, yet the title track of her debut album, Only in My Mind, is a rumination on fantasy sex with a distant object of desire that would enhance any Taylor Swift set list. She teeters on the bombastic then cannily reins it back in: With You has a bruised, powerhouse vocal reminiscent of Amy Winehouse.
She’s too slick and her lyrics too prone to cliche to sound truly heart-on-sleeve and yet she fully inhabits a yearning tribute version of George Michael’s Freedom. Hang My Hat, a teasing invite to a one-night stand, could be Lana Del Rey essaying a power ballad. She closes a fitful set belting out I’m Still Here, a song she co-wrote with Burt Bacharach, like a Vegas veteran. Norma Jean Martine may not yet know where she is going, but you wouldn’t bet against her getting there.

This is an inspired piece of curation. English National Ballet follow their production of Akram Khan’s incendiary new version of Giselle with a historically attentive staging of the 1841 ballet. This cherished version dates from 1971, when Mary Skeaping returned to original sources and descaled the score. It’s fascinating to see old and new worry away at the same questions of love in a perilous culture.
If Khan distils a baleful version of our present, Skeaping restored the original’s complex nostalgia – a pre-industrial pastoral in which people are fixed by birth and corralled by superstition. In David Walker’s richly picturesque designs, the schloss looks down on the autumnal Rhineland village through a blue and green landscape; later, a woodland graveyard gathers darkness at dead of night.
The orchestra digs into the swirl of Adam’s overture, announcing that we’re set for tragedy. Giselle – loved but betrayed by aristocratic Albrecht, wooing her in disguise – is Alina Cojocaru’s signature role. Unlike the stubborn heroine she created for Khan, here she’s all fragility. It’s a beautifully acted performance – she shows a secret adoring smile, turns aside in a crease of anxiety. And sublimely danced: one foot is better than two; airborne best of all. She doesn’t flaunt technique – this Giselle hops like a little girl who enjoys hopping, even as her ankles achieve a hummingbird shimmer.
In this ballet, even a silly game with a daisy becomes fraught with foreboding. (He loves me … not?) Giselle is already fathom deep in love, and we see Albrecht falling. The young duke often seems merely a thoughtless charmer toying with the peasantry, but Isaac Hernández makes him loving in his way. He grows too late into care, and offers his soaring jumps as a lover’s gift. When Cojocaru understands that Albrecht is already status-appropriately engaged, she seems to age 100 years. When she dies, he looks desolate in loss.
The chilly Wilis – spirits of other betrayed women – inhabit a woodland chocked with mist. Sadness is their superpower, heads downcast but feet stabbing on pointe like daggers, moving in inexorable formation like graveyard angels. It’s as if their tears have calcified into vengeance.
Cojocaru’s ghostly Giselle isn’t quite ready to join the glamorous, implacable undead – but she moves with exquisite deliberation, as if the air around her were heavy with sighs. She protects Albrecht: Hernández begins his solo heavy with dread, but then leaps with desperate bravura, a man dancing for his life.
If some performances were more clean than characterful, ENB casts the work in depth. Laurretta Summerscales and Cesar Corrales will play the leading roles at future performances. On opening night, Corrales ignited firecracker leaps in his peasant pas de deux, while Summerscales made an outstanding queen of the wilis, with her marmoreal glide and uncanny swoop. Fernando Bufalá found both nasty pleasure and inconsolable remorse in the spurned Hilarion.
As she burrowed into the ballet’s history, Skeaping fastened on the emotional clasp that keeps it current. People stumble into misplaced hope, insensitive impulse. That they also find their way to redemption feels immense.
• At the Coliseum, London, until 22 January. Box office: 020-7845 9300.
In January 1977 a young punk band called Buzzcocks walked into the Manchester branch of Virgin with a box of singles they wanted to sell. They had set up a label called New Hormones and paid for the records themselves with an early form of crowdfunding – borrowing £500 from a couple of friends and the guitarist’s dad – and their only ambition was to sell enough of the 1,000 copies they had pressed to be able to repay the loans. The Spiral Scratch EP ended up selling 16,000 copies and reaching the top 40 – there was no problem with the loans. More importantly, though, it proved that it was possible for artists to be in complete control of their music, from production to distribution, and in the process invented indie.
These days, there’s nothing unusual about bypassing the record industry. Chance the Rapper self-released his music and has become a breakout star and Barack Obama’s guest at the White House. In 1977, though, Spiral Scratch was game-changing. In its wake came a wave of British independent labels and a distribution network that meant that, as Rough Trade founder Geoff Travis puts it, “anyone could compete with the big boys, but that only happened because it was an undeniably great record”.
Few who saw the first Buzzcocks show on 1 April 1976 would have felt they were in the presence of people who were about to reshape pop. Peter McNeish and Howard Trafford (who would become Pete Shelley and Howard Devoto) fronted a makeshift version of the band at Bolton Institute of Technology’s students’ union – they were studying there – and managed to annoy not just the venue, but their bandmates, too.
After the venue pulled the plug, their drummer – who had never rehearsed with them before – laid into Shelley and Devoto. “He said: ‘I’m at this level’ – and held his hands very high,” Shelley, remembers, “‘and you’re down there.’”
Shelley and Devoto had been inspired to form Buzzcocks seven weeks earlier, when they read a live review in NME that would transform their lives. The headline, “Don’t look over your shoulder, but the Sex Pistols are coming!”, was enough to convince them to borrow a little Renault and drive 200 miles to High Wycombe in Buckinghamshire to see the Pistols support Screaming Lord Sutch on 21 February.
“Seeing the Pistols changed everything,” Devoto says. “We started to realise what songs we ourselves could write.”
At this point, the Pistols were some way from becoming the band who outraged a nation. They were so short of bookings that their manager, Malcolm McLaren, agreed to the offer Shelley and Devoto put to him: they would put his charges on in Manchester, if they could be the support band.
The problem was, the pair didn’t have a band. And when the night of the gig at the Lesser Free Trade Hall arrived – 4 June 1976, with Shelley and Devoto having paid £32 to rent the room – they still lacked a permanent bassist and drummer and had to drop off the bill. But they quickly recruited bassist Steve Diggle and drummer John Maher, who joined while doing his O-levels as a way of avoiding “aggro” from his neighbours, and when the Pistols returned to the Lesser Free Trade Hall on 20 July, Buzzcocks were ready.
“I thought if I could join a band, I could get the drum kit out of the house,” Maher says. “How was I to know that my first gig would be supporting the Sex Pistols?”
Shelley, who was 22, remembers the show for its “complete lack of adult supervision. We were literally doing it ourselves. McLaren said: ‘If Buzzcocks aren’t onstage in 10 minutes, you’re not going on.’ But he was shrewd enough to bring music journalists.” When the journalists’ reviews appeared, Buzzcocks were catapulted to national attention.
Initially, they had no plans to make a record, but after the Pistols’ appearance on Thames TV’s Today show – swearing at the host, Bill Grundy – landed them on tabloid front pages and major labels started signing punk bands, Buzzcocks realised they had to make their mark or risk being passed by.
“Record company scouts just didn’t venture up to Manchester,” says Richard Boon, their manager. “The place felt like the tide had gone out.” But what other options were there? To Shelley, the idea of manufacturing a record themselves felt “as unfeasible as making a computer in your front room”.
There were already British independents: the Damned’s New Rose had been released on Stiff, but that label had the advantage of being run by people with lots of experience in the music business, and the contacts that came with that experience. It was a rather different matter for a pair of students whose only experience of records was buying them and listening to them. “The Drones told us: ‘Don’t do it!’” Shelley says. “Because they’d gone the vanity publishing route in a previous incarnation and ended up with boxes of records in the garage.”
However, the band’s new booking agent, Martin Hannett, wanted to become a producer and saw an opportunity in Buzzcocks. Boon started investigating pressing plants, to see whether they really could make a record, and as things started moving, Shelley began to think: “We can actually do this.”
It helped that by now they had a set of songs that matched those of any London punk band, led by Boredom (“You know me – I’m acting dumb / The scene is very humdrum / Boredom! Boredom!” Devoto sings, while Shelley picks out a two-note solo). Devoto wrote the lyrics during night shifts at a tile factory, and Shelley wrote the tunes on his Woolworth’s guitar.
“We were chalk and cheese,” Shelley remembers. “I said to him, ‘I never get around to things. I live in a straight line,’ That ended up in Boredom.” Shelly’s’s famous guitar solo – seen as the epitome of punk’s rejection of musicianship, and later resurrected by Edwyn Collins for Orange Juice’s Rip It Up – came “out of the blue and seemed to fit. After we’d finished it, we fell about laughing.”
Boredom, Breakdown, Time’s Up and Friends of Mine were recorded in 30 minutes just before Christmas 1976, with Hannett at the controls. Spiral Scratch launched his career, too, and he would go on to produce Joy Division and New Order, the Psychedelic Furs, U2, Happy Mondays and many more – including Buzzcocks after Devoto left, and Devoto’s next group, Magazine.
“My impression was that Martin didn’t know what he was doing,” Maher says. “But neither did we.” Devoto says of Spiral Scratch’s ramshackle, lo-fi sound: “As amateurs even we found it a bit amateurish sounding.”
Boon thinks the amateurishness is all part of the EP’s charm: Buzzcocks were the anti-Fleetwood Mac, the antithesis of big-budget music. He took Spiral Scratch’s cover photo of the band on a Polaroid instant camera and the band assembled at Devoto’s shared flat in Lower Broughton to slide 1,000 singles into their budget picture sleeves.
The first shop to take copies was Virgin in Manchester, which accepted 25 copies and sold them for 99p each (of which 60p went to the band). In London, Travis had just opened his Rough Trade shop. He took an initial 50, then ordered 200 more just two days later. “I knew I could sell them,” he says. “It was a sensational record.”
Boon didn’t have the money to press more copies, so Jon Webster, the manager of the Manchester branch of Virgin, lent him £600 from the shop’s sales of coach tickets to a Status Quo gig. “So indirectly, the first British independent success story was financed by the Quo,” Boon says, laughing. Webster remembers those pioneering punk days as “the best time of my life”, and notes that, back then, a record shop could be a catalyst for spreading new music. “Because there was no distribution, almost no shops had these records,” he says. “When we handed out a photocopied list of all our punk singles at the [venue] Electric Circus, we were deluged with people from all over the north.”
Soon enough, a copy of Spiral Scratch reached John Peel, who duly played it; it became single of the week in the music papers, and sales exploded via mail order. After Mancunian photographer Kevin Cummins gave Marc Bolan a copy and photographed him holding it, Boon’s landline started “ringing off the hook”.
Spiral Scratch provided evidence that punk was having an effect nationwide, that it wasn’t just confined to a small coterie in London. The cultural historian Jon Savage had just started his first fanzine when it was released, and it made him think Manchester punk “seemed more interesting than London punk, which was full of people with leather jackets and cocaine habits”. Just as important, the means of Spiral Scratch’s release epitomised liberation through DIY. “Suddenly the gap between wanting to do something and actually doing it seemed small,” Savage says.
Devoto’s idea of providing recording details on the sleeve – “Breakdown, third take, no overdubs” and so on – further demystified the process of making records, making it seem accessible to scores of young groups. Two months after Spiral Scratch was released, the Desperate Bicycles formed, and released a first single with a sleevenote that read: “The Desperate Bicycles were formed in March 1977 specifically for the purpose of recording and releasing a single on their own label.” That note inspired Green Gartside of Scritti Politti to form his own band and release a debut single on which he itemised the costs of production and manufacturing. Buzzcocks had started something that couldn’t be stopped
Indie labels began to spring up nationwide: in 1978, ZigZag magazine published a list of 120 labels that had punk acts on their roster; the vast majority of them were from outside London. Alongside the labels came a new breed of band: Webster remembers Ian Curtis coming into Virgin and declaring: “I’ve formed a band!” Then Rough Trade set up the indie distribution network that gave these new labels and bands some of the muscle their counterparts on the major labels had previously monopolised. “You could have a No 1 record and have nothing to do with the record industry,” he says. “It was tremendously empowering.”
Buzzcocks Mk 1 didn’t survive their own earthquake. Devoto returned to college, and later formed Magazine. The new lineup of Buzzcocks, with Shelley singing, signed to United Artists and produced some of the best loved-music of the punk era. Forty years on, although there have been breaks along the way, Shelley and Diggle continue to lead Buzzcocks, and celebrated the band’s 40th anniversary with a world tour.
And all these years on, there are young bands doing exactly what Buzzcocks did. “I recently met the grime act Tough Squad, who told me how they press up 200 records, take them to shops and then go back for the money,” Boon says. “Just like we did.”
“It just shows what can happen if you’re stupid enough to believe that you can do something,” Shelley adds. “History is made by those who turn up.”
• Spiral Scratch (40th anniversary reissue) is released on Domino on 27 January. Time’s Up, an album of 1976 demos, is being reissued on 24 February.
This spring ushers in the return of Ed Sheeran. The songwriter’s third album, Divide (÷), will be available from 3 March.
Last week, Sheeran unveiled his first new studio recordings since the 2014 album X. The two new singles, Shape of You and Castle on the Hill, broke Spotify’s UK and global streaming records with the two songs exceeding 13m combined streams in 24 hours, usurping One Direction. Earlier this week, its tracklisting was also revealed:
pic.twitter.com/sXBLQKX1zS
“Hello 2017! I’ve been working hard on the new material and I hope you can be as excited about it as I am,” Sheeran said. “I really wanted to show two different sides to my music that I’m equally as passionate about and I just knew I wanted to roll with two songs at the same time. I’m absolutely buzzing to be back.”
The Suffolk singer’s return follows a year of social media silence. During his online absence, he co-wrote Cold Water, a track released by Major Lazer, and Justin Bieber’s Love Yourself, both of which reached No 1 in the UK.
His 2014 album X topped charts on both sides of the Atlantic, achieving 3.4bn streams. Plus (+) his 2011 debut won him his first Ivor Novello award for The A Team, which went on to become that year’s biggest-selling debut single.
Sheeran also became the first artist to headline Wembley stadium without a band - relying on just his trademark loop pedal and guitar – for three sold-out nights. He is the recipient of four Brit awards, two Grammys and two Ivor Novellos.
The French-American art dynasty scion Guy Wildenstein has been cleared of hiding paintings and properties worth hundreds of millions of euros from the French authorities after one of the biggest tax fraud trials ever held in the country.
State prosecutors had wanted the 71-year-old to be sentenced to two years in prison and given a €250m (£217m) fine over what they called “the longest and most sophisticated” tax fraud scheme in modern-day France. But judges in Paris cleared him and seven other defendants of all charges.
The presiding judge, Olivier Geron, said there was a “clear attempt” by Wildenstein and the other defendants to hide assets but that shortcomings in the investigation and in French legislation on tax fraud made it impossible to return a guilty verdict. Both the “powerful and the poor” had an equal right to justice, Geron said.
The celebrated Wildenstein art clan – known in the French art world as simply “les W” – is as famous for its family feuds and eccentricities as its huge collection of old masters. The much-mocked cosmetic surgery of a former sister-in-law of Guy Wildenstein led to her becoming the face of the family’s excesses.
Prosecutors accused the family, whose art business was founded in Paris in the late 19th century, of using a web of opaque trusts and tax havens to avoid paying about €550m in tax.
Guy Wildenstein’s co-defendants were his nephew Alec Jr, his estranged Russian sister-in-law Liouba Stoupakova, a notary, two lawyers and two offshore trusts. The case would probably never have seen the light of day had various Wildenstein widows and former wives, feeling shortchanged, not lifted the lid on the clan’s business dealings.
French tax authorities accused the defendants of grossly undervaluing the Wildenstein estate to minimise inheritance taxes. Described as the “trial of the missing millions”, the case raised questions about the system of financial management and opaque offshore trusts used by France’s wealthiest people.
The list of assets discussed in the case was eye-watering, and included the family’s 30,000-hectare private compound and wildlife sanctuary in Kenya, where parts of the film Out of Africa were shot, to racehorses, stables, a New York apartment, dozens of paintings and a Gulfstream jet.
The authorities allege that following the death of their father, Daniel, in 2001, Guy and his brother Alec, who died in 2008, began transferring assets out of France.
Guy Wildenstein is the heir of three generations of art dealers and racehorse breeders. His great-grandfather Nathan Wildenstein was an Alsace cloth merchant who amassed a large art collection that was passed to his son Georges, a patron of Pablo Picasso, Salvador Dalí and Max Ernst.
When Nazi Germany invaded France, Georges fled to the US. His son Daniel expanded the family’s art collection to make it one of the biggest in private hands anywhere in the world, encompassing Renoir, Caravaggio, El Greco and Monet, and cementing his own reputation as an art dealer, collector and historian.
Such was the family’s wealth that Daniel’s second wife, Sylvia, once described to lawyers how her thankful husband once bought an island in the West Indies because it had provided shelter to their yacht in a storm.
But the family’s personal battles were to tear them apart. After Daniel’s death at the age of 84, Sylvia accused her stepsons of tricking her out of her inheritance by claiming their father died broke. “I knew something was wrong when they took away my horses,” she told a French magazine. Sylvia battled for years to hunt down the missing “treasure”, including several paintings by old masters.
Sylvia, who died in 2010, likened the long-running family battle to the US soap opera Dallas. But it was through the efforts of several other women aggrieved at their treatment by the Wildensteins that lifted the veil of secrecy over the family fortune. Daniel’s late son Alec was a fixture on France’s society pages during his messy divorce from the Swiss socialite Jocelyn Perisse. She was given the unflattering nickname “Bride of Wildenstein” due to the effects of her extensive cosmetic surgery, which her ex-husband reportedly said was intended to make her face look more feline.
Guy Wildenstein, a close friend of the former French president Nicolas Sarkozy, claimed during the trial that he was mystified by the labyrinthine tax schemes put in place by Alec and his father. He also argued that there was no legal obligation to report his trust-held assets following his father’s death.
Here is this week’s playlist – songs picked by a reader from your suggestions after last week’s callout. Thanks for them all. Read more about how our weekly Readers Recommend series works at the end of the piece.
One of the hidden benefits of taking a spin in the RR “guru” chair is that you get the chance – or accept the obligation – to read through all the nominations and comments. This week’s offerings produced a couple of interesting points about the game generally, and the list-selection process in particular. On that basis, I’m throwing in a few more explanatory notes on the A-list than usual this time around. They may even help anyone who fancies their first turn behind the wheel to avoid a pothole or two.
Alliteration promised to be a fruitful topic for rap and hip-hop-type songs. It possibly still was, but the returns would have been even better had I noticed earlier that two nailed-on-from-the-outset choices were zedded years ago (Blackalicious with Alphabet Aerobics and Eric B & Rakim with Follow the Leader, if you’re asking). Our list thus commences with Roots and Mellow My Man, a rhyming onslaught containing the wholly relevant lines “manic mad musicians … makers of noise erupt abruptly”.
A recurring dilemma for the “guru” – well, this one anyway – is whether to favour songs that suit one’s own taste, or embrace those that, shall we say, untick the boxes. Suffice to say that if I stuck resolutely to the former approach then Rusholme Ruffians by the Smiths would not have featured here. The justification by reader ScarletsOHywel was too good to resist, though: “The title has both alliteration and assonance and, as a bonus, alliterates in the same way as readers recommend.” Very well played!
Pursuing that point, some difficult decisions had to be made this week between eminent wordsmiths, and one particular head-to-head gave me much food for thought. Ultimately, tales of “Two Ton Ted from Teddington” and treacle tart-based temptation tipped the balance in favour of Benny Hill and Ernie (The Fastest Milkman in the West). Joni Mitchell did make the B-List, in fairness ...
Certain other selections need less explanation:
“Be mine sister salvation, Juke Joint Jezebel is coming for my cremation,” warn KMFDM. And if anybody nominated a song with a more arrestingly alliterative name than Ku Klux Klan by Steel Pulse, it escaped my notice.
Another obvious fit for the topic was Lowkey & Faith SFX with Alphabet Assassin. An undeniably apt title, and I can summarise the song no better than by quoting a YouTube commenter who opined: “My man compressed the dictionary like a zip file.” Quite.
Regardless of personal musical taste, any playlist needs light and shade, and the next two choices stood out for vivid rather than exuberant phraseology:
“Helplessly hoping her harlequin hovers nearby / Gasping at glimpses of gentle true spirit.” The image conjured up by Richie Havens in Helplessly Hoping is a fine one, but perhaps not quite as cinematic as Patti Smith’s Kimberley:
“So I ran through the fields as the bats with their baby vein faces / Burst from the barn and flames in a violent violet sky.”
The musing in the comments during the week on whether a relatively small number of participants enjoy disproportionate listing “success” made me pause and reflect. To me, RR has always been a level playing field, but a thought did occur – might a guru encounter a conflict of interest if someone raised such a concern? Would there be pressure to spread the selection net wider? Happily, in my case, the eternal consideration is whether nominations are in any way reminiscent of Warren Zevon’s lyrical genius, so (musing notwithstanding) Metro make the list on merit with Flame: “I see flames along the Seine / I know the stains on your satin skirt / Come from another lover.”
In similar vein, Olivia Chaney on the pitfalls of cramped, shared accommodation in Too Social: “This house is too social / Kitchen constant coffee confessional.”
Our penultimate track is Flip, Flop and Fly by Big Joe Turner. The Elvis version was also nominated, but Big Joe edged it; scoring additional points by being introduced onstage as “The Boss of the Blues”.
Finally, what better way to conclude a playlist on this topic than with a remarkably economical use of capital letters, for both band and song title, to fine alliterative effect: AC/DC’s Dirty Deeds Done Dirt Cheap.
Note: not all songs appear on the Spotify playlist because some are unavailable on the service.
The new theme will be announced at 8pm (GMT) on Thursday 12 January. You have until 11pm on Monday 16 January to submit nominations.
Here’s a reminder of some of the guidelines for RR:
Anne Brontë is the only member of her immediate family whose grave is not at Haworth, the village where the Brontës lived from the year of her birth, 1820. She is buried at Scarborough, where she went in May 1849 in a last-ditch hope of recovery from tuberculosis, and lies in a cliff-top cemetery overlooking the sea she loved.
Apart and alone in death, quiet and reserved in life, the youngest Brontë has also been the one people are least likely to be able to name, “the other Brontë”, lurking in the shadow of her more famous siblings, Charlotte and Emily. At the time when the trio broke into print with a joint collection of poems (published in 1846 under the androgynous pseudonyms, “Currer, Ellis and Acton Bell”), both Charlotte and Anne were hitching a ride on Emily’s superior talent; in the next year, as novelists, it was Charlotte who enthralled the reading public with Jane Eyre, and Emily who disturbed it with Wuthering Heights. Anne’s tale of a pious governess, Agnes Grey, seemed dull by comparison. “It left no painful impression on the mind,” one reviewer said, crushingly, “some may think it leaves no impression at all.”
Separating a Brontë from the family context is hard to do, but ever since the first separate biography of Anne in 1959 by Winifred Gérin, a cult within the cult has grown of Anne as the connoisseur’s choice among the sisters. There is plenty to admire in this supposed literary wallflower. It was Anne who, in Agnes Grey, addressed issues of female self-worth and autonomy before Charlotte jazzed up the same themes in Jane Eyre, and Anne who powered on through the commercial failure of her first novel to write about the horrors of living with a man on the skids (based on her brother, Branwell), urging an important moral message on “the young and thoughtless traveller”. It was Anne, the least neurotic or peculiar inhabitant of the parsonage, who bucked the family trend and stuck at a job she hated for five years, who understood Emily best, got on with things unobtrusively, was tenacious, loyal and dutiful.
The playwright and journalist Samantha Ellis is the latest to promote Anne Brontë’s excellence, which, as a recent convert from Emily fandom, she does with neophyte fervour. As with her last book, How to Be a Heroine, Ellis weaves her thoughts on literature into a personal narrative, this time taking stock of her life and achievements aged 40 as she edges hesitantly towards emotional commitment and marriage. “If ... I can arrive at any kind of truth about Anne, what will I learn?”
Ellis mines Anne’s poems, two novels and five surviving letters for clues, and finds a woman of penetrating intelligence and courage, whose riposte to critics on the question of the sex of “Acton Bell” was superbly pithy: “I am satisfied that if a book is a good one, it is so whatever the sex of the author may be.” She is good on all aspects of Brontë’s bravery in her works and her relentless self-questioning in private, as in a marginal note in her bible: “What, Where, and How Shall I Be When I Have Got Through?” This echoes through Ellis’s account of her own questioning of focus and priorities, all assiduously tagged to the research for her book. Might she end up living in Haworth, like uber-Brontë biographer, Gérin? Probably not. “Anne realised that at some point you have to stop living in someone else’s stories and write your own.”
But being a fierce partisan, even temporarily, makes Ellis an unreliable guide. She chooses to downplay severely one of Anne Brontë’s most significant attributes, her piety, though faith got Anne through things that her siblings couldn’t endure, and fuelled her sense of social justice and self-worth. Every member of the Brontë family had a distinctly different set of beliefs, and Anne was drawn strongly to the low-church Moravians in her teens, later adopting a carefully customised form of universalism. Unlike any other member of her supposedly religious family, she died expressing sincere happiness in an imminent meeting with her saviour.
In a cherry-picking mood, Ellis adopts an astonishingly negative view of elder sister Charlotte
In the same cherry-picking mood, Ellis adopts an astonishingly negative view of elder sister Charlotte. The sniping starts in the introduction and runs right through to the last page: Charlotte is always “snide”, “sneering”, “tetchy” or “finagling”, having embarked on a lifelong campaign of bullying and mean-spiritedness. Ellis wants to punish Charlotte for her suppression, after Anne’s death, of The Tenant of Wildfell Hall on grounds of it having been “an entire mistake”, but was Charlotte’s misguided action really proof of perfidy, as Ellis sees it, a conscious effort to tip the balance of posterity’s judgments her way? Is it credible that Charlotte was out to ruin Anne’s reputation rather than protect it, when it was only Charlotte’s belief in their talent that got Anne, Emily and herself into print in the first place?
In even trivial ways, Ellis’s partiality colours the whole body of evidence. She chooses not to believe the story about Emily beating her dog Keeper, is very selective about facts and ignores any nuances that might compromise her characterisations. She thinks Charlotte’s letters to Robert Southey, for instance, which seemingly accept his view that “literature is not the business of a woman’s life”, are “straightforward” and frank. They aren’t. She also can’t see that Charlotte’s speech by a character called Wiggins in her juvenilia is a joke aimed against Branwell. “Anne is nothing, absolutely nothing,” Charlotte has Wiggins say. “How did Anne feel when she read this?” Ellis asks ponderously, “and did she worry about it when, a year later, she was sent off to study at Roe Head, where Charlotte would be one of her teachers?”
Sally Wainwright’s bracing characterisation of Anne in her recent TV drama To Walk Invisible got quickly to the heart of the author’s intelligence and sympathy, but did so by eliminating the factors which, in life, prevented those qualities from being readily evident; the intense reserve, the plainness, the speech impediment, the habitual near‑silence. Non-fiction needs to be less idealistic. Publisher George Smith’s impression was of “a gentle, quiet, rather subdued person”, whose “manner was curiously expressive of a wish for protection and encouragement”; Charlotte spoke of “a sort of nun-like veil” over her sister’s feelings, rarely lifted. To ignore these testimonies is to miss the essence of Anne Brontë’s life, the huge gulf that existed between how she felt and how she behaved, how she lived and what she wrote. Her “art of life” was to conduct most of it in writing.
• Claire Harman’s Charlotte Brontë: A Life is published by Penguin. Take Courage is published by Chatto. To order a copy for £14.44 (RRP £16.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
How would we react to a future terrorist attack? What impact would it have on our lives and personalities? Those are just two of the questions raised by this extraordinary new play by Stuart Slade, which arrives in the West End after an acclaimed run at Theatre 503. It even questions our own complicity in seeking entertainment in stories about a horrific disaster.
Slade’s play takes the form of what in TV terms would be called a mockumentary. We seem to be watching a verbatim piece in which six members of a survivors’ group relive their reaction to an attack in which a passenger plane has been brought down over Fulham, southwest London, by a surface-to-air missile. Although the story is told through interlocking monologues, the six characters, who take their names from the actors, seek to form mutual bonds. Alex, an arrogant banker whose girlfriend has died in the disaster, hooks up with Izzy, who has lost her mother. Floss, a posh student, is linked by bizarre circumstances to Clive, a devout Muslim whose cardiologist dad died in the crash. Roxana, a Romanian with severe burns, secretly despises Graham, a bigoted van driver who profits from his eyewitness account of the event.
I was reminded of Neil LaBute’s The Mercy Seat, which showed two New Yorkers exploiting 9/11 for their own ends. But Slade’s play is much stronger than LaBute’s in that it suggests terrorist attacks soon acquire their own mythology. Alex may be a merciless cynic who tells us “a survivors’ group is a perfect place to pull” but Slade’s larger point is that, as individuals and societies, we cope with disaster through a series of pretences. London – like most big cities – is full of deep divisions of class, income and religion but Slade suggests any external threat fosters a bogus solidarity. The real surprise about his play, however, is that it is unafraid to provoke wild laughter in the face of death. Even if Alex’s running commentary on the action is over-used – especially when he mocks our assumption that the young Muslim may be a terrorist conspirator – it gives the play an added zest and brio.
Dan Pick’s production, with its plastic chairs and strip lighting, reinforces the feeling that we are watching an authentic group confessional and the six actors highlight the way crisis breeds a strange mix of selfishness, grief, resilience and opportunism. Since it would be invidious to pick out any single performer, I would simply pay joint tribute to Alexander Forsyth, Clive Keene, Florence Roberts, Graham O’Mara, Isabella Laughland and Roxana Lupu. It is fascinating to learn that Slade himself is creative director of a film company that specialises in documentaries about disaster response. I can only say that he has turned his knowledge to excellent use and created a play that questions our assumptions about collective heroism and makes fascinating drama out of personal trauma.

Joe Wicks. Heard of him? You’ve undoubtedly seen him: also known as the Body Coach, the eternally cheerful Wicks currently has three health and fitness books in the UK top 10 – and it’s all thanks to Instagram. He joined the social media site in 2013 to get more clients for his personal training business, and his toned pecs, quick workouts, and 15-second video recipes won him a 150,000-strong following and the attention of publishers. Macmillan’s Bluebird imprint didn’t reveal what it paid for Wicks’s first two books in 2015, but the Bookseller reported it was a “heated” eight-way auction, so it’s safe to assume six figures. (The two-book deal later became four, now eight.)
Lean in 15 sold 77,000 copies in its first week of sales in December 2015. In 2016, it sold 972,000 copies, making it the third bestselling book of the year. (His other books came seventh and 27th, with 449,000 and 177,000 sales respectively.) Wicks has parlayed that success into a TV show, DVDs, and a fitness empire. His business now turns over more than £1m a month. He also now has 1.6m Instagram followers (and counting).
Publishers turning to Instagram – a photography-based medium – to find authors may seem strange. But we live in an image-focused society and a lot of a publisher’s work has already been done if their new signing has already shaped their brand. Consider the authorial success of a YouTuber juggernaut such as gamer PewDiePie’s book This Book Loves You, which reached top spot on the New York Times bestseller list in a week. Or Zoella, whose 2014 novel Girl Online sold more copies in one week (78,109) than any debut novel since records began, making the £100,000 advance she was paid to have it ghostwritten seem like small potatoes. For comparison, the last Booker prize winner Paul Beatty sold 45,000 copies of The Sellout in the 18 months before the ceremony – actually very successful for literary fiction. A 2015 survey found the median author advance was less than £6,600.
Other Instagram successes include comedian Bella Younger, whose tie-in book for her Deliciously Stella web presence pokes fun at some of the sites’s more earnest dieting trends. If the name sounds familiar, it’s because it’s a play on Deliciously Ella, aka Ella Mills, another Instagrammer and bestselling author, whose first cookbook, also called Deliciously Ella, sold 32,144 copies in its first week (a record until Wicks turned up). You don’t even need to be a person to be an Instagram author: in 2015, Orion snapped up the rights to Marnie the Dog: I’m a Book, by the eponymous shih tzu, famous for her lopsided grin among her 1m followers. Turning the popular Cats of Instagram account into a book? A no-brainer.
It would be easy to look at all these and feel cynical about the future of publishing. But it’s worth remembering that popular books help keep the industry afloat. Print sales rose 7% in 2016, in large part thanks to Wicks (with a little help from JK Rowling and colouring books for adults). Even established authors in all genres are embracing Instagram: The Night Circus author Erin Morgenstern shares what she’s reading, plus the odd kitten shot; Bret Easton Ellis posts pictures of shiny LA alongside his recommended reads and judging by Paolo Coelho’s account, the new-age novelist splits his time between frigid walks and taking photos of ads for his books. Publishers want all their writers to have a social media presence. It is the new normal.
A photo posted by Matilda and Harry Goodman (@heyharryheymatilda) on May 19, 2016 at 10:31am PDT
Some authors have even begun using Instagram to tell stories, all within the 2,200-character photo caption limits imposed by Instagram. And the results are fascinating. Caroline Calloway’s memoir And We Were Like started as a series of Instagram updates by the 24-year-old about her life as an American in Cambridge and comes out in 2018. Journalist Jeff Sharlet has published his Instagram photo essays in magazines such as GQ and plans to devote his next book to them. And this month sees the release of Rachel Hulin’s novel Hey Harry, Hey Matilda. Originally told on Instagram, the story of unusually close twins in their early 30s is written in the form of emails that gradually reveal the shameful secrets they’ve both been hiding. It’s weird, witty and clever, and it leads me to think that in future we should not always be cynical about looking at Instagram to find our next read. Now picture that.
Earlier this decade the artist Theaster Gates began dropping hints that he might not be long for the confines of the art world. Instead, Gates said, he wanted to focus on what he called “practicing life”. What could be interpreted as an abstract idea made sense when you look at Gates’s work, most prominently a series of project spaces in South Side Chicago that located art outside the walls of galleries and institutions.
In the African American neighborhood south of the Midway, Gates gutted a string of condemned buildings and then turned them into sculpture, covertly turning his collectors into patrons of urban renewal. “If you draw a circle around a thing, stand in the middle of the thing, invite others to stand in it with you and pray and work and move your body, that place won’t be the same any more,” he says of the project.
He took former crack houses and turned them into cinemas, showing everything from Mario Van Peebles’s back catalog to Car Wash. Under his guidance, a crumbling bank became a center for art and held dance classes. Along with Turner prize winners Assemble, he’s at the heart of a new way of thinking of regeneration as art itself.
It is a time-honored role for artist as designator, to point at the stuff of the physical world and revision it as art, harkening back to the readymade. But Gates’s decision to “bump off from art” and live “in the sphere of dirt, the dirty, the stuff that we think is in the ground” was revelatory, leading to invitations to Davos and a TED Talk, where he talked about how he revived a neighborhood with imagination and hard graft. In the insistence that the scrap material framing black lives has important pedigree – and in the starkness by which Gates’s interventions with lumber and screws made refuse into investment-class commodity – was also the flat-out thrill of seeing a broken trickle system work, even but once.
Now he’s back with But To Be A Poor Race, Gates’s first show with Los Angeles gallery Regen Projects, and he is in Washington DC with an invitation to the White House in the final days of the Obama presidency. “I feel like I’m settling into my values,” says Gates, who will follow the Regen Projects show with an exhibition at the National Gallery of Art. “It is a set of things that I want to explore deeply, like, where does real power come from? What does one do with power? And who’s really the poor race, and who really won?”
Gates’s new show takes those questions further and draws its title from the WEB DuBois book The Souls of Black Folk, and the NAACP co-founder’s line about that greatest of hardships, “but to be a poor race in the land of dollars”. Canonized as a sociologist and civil rights activist, DuBois created visualization aids for the 1900 Paris Exposition – charts showing black achievement in the 40 years after the end of the civil war. By documenting how many people owned their homes or owned land, had kitchen appliances or farm apparatuses, or went to college, DuBois and his colleagues turned statistics into unfurling lines and the blocks of color that united them. They were not only “great and handy at the thing that we know they’re great and handy at, but DuBois was an artist”, Gates says. “There was no market for his artistry except for the invention of black platforms that would elevate black people.”
These objects for me are studies in black power. I want to be in conversation with black power
Like Gates’s color-field paintings responding to DuBois’s datasets, a new suite of tar paintings made on-site in Los Angeles bind mark-making to its labors. The paintings situate black resilience and longing within the history of abstraction, when postwar artists such as Barnett Newman sought another way to confront the damage without reinforcing it through representation, lest we “become victim to it” and “believe that is ultimately the truth”, as Gates explains. “An inability to face the horrors of violence, and a desire to sing a new steadier song – abstraction, that’s what abstraction is.” Within the refusal to be literal also is the repositing of what it means to be “a byproduct of a certain poverty, a certain poorness, to use [DuBois’s] term, is an imaginative resilience that then allows people to conjure things,” Gates says.
The work also confronts ideas of appropriation and imperialism head on. A bronze sculpture from a series recalling African reliquary masks in But To Be A Poor Race pulls even deeper past, heavy with the shifting weight of talismans into requisitioned modernist forms. “They were pillaging our shit,” Gates says, speaking of the modernists, who were influenced by deliberately abstracted proportions and forms in African figural carvings, often meant to represent more than one person. “As they were creating a gross poverty, a systematic poverty, they were at the same time feeding themselves the kind of black philosophy that would yield a new era of art, would bring them out of the artistic dark ages.”
“These objects for me are studies in black power. I want to be in conversation with black power,” and Gates does not mean anything as temporal as the 1960s. “I want to ask my ancestors things. Like, how did you figure out the orchestration of stars, and do it with such precision?”
When Gates travels, he says he is often asked about the violence in Chicago, and he goes instead to the lives that are “unamplified”: the “intellectual rigor, the care that black people have for one another”, he says. “Instead of just pondering it with the western rational mind, I want to get in the zone of the ecstatic, of the hallucinogenic, of the otherworldly. I want to get in the zone of the eternal. I want to be inside of those sculptural objects. I want to re-ritualize. I want to knead them so they might be a channel for power, be a protection from powers, be a hedge around my head, be the hem of Christ’s garment. I want to believe that there is power in my poverty.”
Gates, who has worked in clay and once created a fictional Japanese potter to be the ostensible author of his work in mud and water, has infused humble materials with mythology, over and again. From the roots of gospel, his band the Black Monks of Mississippi bend their voices towards something incantatory, a hum from these bodies and also beyond it. In a video at Regen Projects, Sweet Land of Liberty, the stanzas of the American patriotic anthem My Country ’Tis of Thee disintegrate in Gates’s singing of them, into the soft, fine romantic dream fragments of “we land of liberty”, “from every mountainside”, and “let freedom ring”. “They’re actually so beautiful, the kind of movement from one note to the next; they’re like salves,” he says. “It’s like Mariah Carey missing her lip-synch. All I can do is try to mouth these things. I can entertain people with the lyrics, the same way a modernist could grab an image of a big nose or a Fijian girl and put it in a painting. I could appropriate the lyric of white power, but in fact I am still just part of a poor race.”
In another clip, Gates catches the singer Yaw Agyeman coming out of a chant of devotion and overlays it with the rising intro notes of Soul Train, the long-running Chicago-born institution and “unifying mechanism” where people could gather and dance. “And so I decided to counterbalance Yaw’s nam myoho, which is a way to channel a meditative unity by using sound,” Gates says of his own filmed duet, and the shared sounds “that, in a way, don’t have meanings in and of themselves, but when done with others make meaning”. In these diverse mediums, Gates’s interrogations and redemptions of black history take visibility as pliable, and thus too are the makings of power, spun through this life and out of our attentions: “To be a poor race is a gift,” he says, “if you can see the richness.”
But To Be A Poor Race opens at Regen Projects in Los Angeles on 14 January
Allan Williams, best known as the first manager of the Beatles, has died aged 86, it has been announced. It was Williams who took the band to Hamburg, where its members learned much of their craft, before returning to the UK and stardom.
He was the owner of the Jacaranda club in Liverpool, which confirmed the news of his death on Friday night. “His legacy has allowed us to remain at the heart of the Liverpool music scene for almost 60 years, and his memory will live on through every band that plays our famous stage. Allan, you will be missed. All of our thoughts and wishes go to his family and his wife Beryl,” a message on the club’s Facebook page read.
The Beatles Story, an exhibition in Liverpool celebrating the band’s success, praised Williams for his “significant role”. Martin King, its spokesman, said: “We are deeply saddened to hear of the passing of Allan Williams. Our thoughts go out to his family at this sad time. Allan was a friend to many of us at the Beatles Story and his legacy will continue to be told for years to come.”
In a statement released on Friday, the exhibition said: “His involvement in the Beatles’ early years in Liverpool and on to Hamburg helped shape the band in to what we see and know today.”
The team behind the attraction said they were shocked and saddened by the news that Williams, who also served as the Beatles’ first booking agent, had died. “He personally drove the van to take the young band to Hamburg, Germany in 1960, where they gained the vital show business experience that led to their emergence on the world stage,” they said. “In May this year, Allan was awarded a top civic honour in recognition of his contribution to the music industry in Liverpool.”
In 2009, Williams spoke about the Beatles’ early days, saying he had confidence in the band when others in Liverpool did not. “It was mainly their personalities, because most of the groups were a bit on the thick side, whereas they all had good educations; they were a bit posher and more articulate. So I thought, no, I will take a chance,” he said.
He also remembered bonding with a young John Lennon. “I had him down as a coffee-boy layabout, as I used to call him, and thought he was rather arrogant. But when I got to know him – it’s quite tragic, really. I had an unhappy childhood, too, so there was a bit of an understanding there, although we never talked about it.”
Mark Rylance has been awarded a knighthood, capping a year in which the veteran Shakespearean actor won an Oscar and two Baftas, as talent from across the performing arts was recognised in the New Year honours.
It is the first honour for the actor who played Thomas Cromwell in the BBC’s Wolf Hall and won an Oscar for his portrayal of Rudolph Abel in Bridge of Spies.
Speaking earlier this year, Rylance said he did not set much store by the various accolades he had collected over his career: “People say things about competing as actors and I know that is necessary to make a show out of it, but those actors are so good I feel I’m more of a spokesman when I win rather than better than the other nominees. I don’t take it too seriously.”
Patricia Routledge, 87, best known as Hyacinth Bucket in Keeping Up Appearances, was among those in the world of theatre and television honoured with a damehood.
Speaking to the Guardian in 2011 ahead of a return to the stage at the National Theatre, Routledge said she still got fan mail from all over the world for the 1990s sitcom, and attempted to answer every letter.
The actor said it had not been a burden to be so closely identified with one character. “If everything focuses on that, it’s just too silly. But it would be churlish of me not to appreciate what it’s brought me. If a good number of people come into a theatre because they know me from the dreaded Mrs B, I couldn’t be happier.”
Richard Eyre, 73, the playwright and director and former artistic director of the National Theatre, was also awarded the Companion of Honour, while actor Helen McCrory was given an OBE following her critically acclaimed performances on stage at the National Theatre in both Medea and Deep Blue Sea, as well as on screen in the BBC series Peaky Blinders.
Kinks frontman Ray Davies, 72, said he felt a mixture of joy and embarrassment on being awarded a knighthood for services to the arts. Despite the Kinks parting ways in 1996, Davies forged a solo career and two years ago collaborated on Sunny Afternoon, the Olivier-award wining musical based on his music and lyrics.
“This is for the people who supported my music over the years,” said Davies. “I’m kind of reluctant to collect rewards. I usually back out of ceremonies. I’m kind of a shy person.”
There was also a knighthood for veteran comedian Ken Dodd, who, despite being 89 and recently admitting his memory was beginning to fail, still performs lengthy musical and comedy shows that often run well past midnight. He said he was “highly tickled” to have been made a knight.
Dodd, who entered the Guinness Book of Records in the 1960s for telling 1,500 jokes in three hours, began his foray into comedy at 14 and built up a following for his speedily delivered one-liners. He has also had 19 songs enter the Top 40 over his career, with his version of Tears topping the UK charts for five weeks in 1965. Dodd said he had no plans to retire anytime soon, adding: “I’m very proud, I’m very, very happy and full of plumptiousness.”
Welsh opera singer Bryn Terfel said he was “truly humbled” to be among those receiving a knighthood, an honour that was also given to Jeffrey Philip Tate, the chief conductor for the Hamburg Symphony Orchestra, for services to British music overseas.
Naomie Harris, who played loyal crown servant Eve Moneypenny in James Bond films Skyfall and Spectre, received an OBE, as has Tim Pigott-Smith, 70, who made his break in The Jewel in the Crown in 1984 and was recently nominated for both an Olivier and a Tony award for his portrayal of the Prince of Wales in Mike Bartlett’s play King Charles III.
One of the few nods for the visual arts was a CBE for Chris Ofili, the Turner-prize winning painter who has represented Britain at the Venice Biennale and was one of the few British artists of African descent to emerge as part of the Young British Artist movement in the 1990s.
“I don’t want to get my hopes up,” the singer Adele said in 2015 – just ahead of the release of her latest album, 25. “You can’t make assumptions. This new one could sell 100,000.”
She need not have worried. Her third studio album has outsold any other in the UK for the second year running, it was announced on Friday.
More than 13 months after its release, 25 has passed the 3 million sales mark in Britain, giving it a place on the Official Charts Company’s 30 bestselling UK albums of all time. The album has also sold more than 10 million copies in the US.
Coldplay’s A Head Full of Dreams, which was also released last year, was the year’s second bestseller. The group’s seventh LP reached number one in February – achieving the same lofty chart heights as its six predecessors, which date back to Parachutes in 2000.
After claiming this year’s Christmas No 1, Michael Ball and Alfie Boe’s duets collection was named third most successful of the year, followed by Justin Bieber’s Purpose in fourth and Elvis Presley’s posthumous collaboration with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra, The Wonder Of You, fifth.
Released days before his death in January, David Bowie’s 25th and final album, Blackstar, was the sixth biggest of the year, selling 410,000 copies.
The bestselling single of the year was One Dance by Drake, featuring vocalists Wizkid and Kyla. The Canadian artist’s first number one racked up sales of just under 2 million and was the most streamed song of the year.
Second was Lukas Graham’s 7 Years, which was also the most purchased track of the year and spent five weeks at number one.
Sia’s Cheap Thrills was the third biggest song, followed by Mike Posner’s comeback track I Took a Pill in Ibiza, with the Calvin Harris and Rihanna collaboration, This is What You Came For, in fifth.
The rest of the 2016 top 10 was made up of Lush Life by Zara Larsson, Closer by The Chainsmokers featuring Halsey in seventh spot, Justin Bieber’s Love Yourself at eight, Work by Rihanna featuring Drake, and Can’t Stop The Feeling by Justin Timberlake in the 10th spot.
Clean Bandit’s Rockabye – the Christmas number one after spending seven weeks at the summit of the singles chart – missed out on the year’s top 10 list.
Oscar-nominated film-maker Lee Daniels has criticised the #OscarsSoWhite controversy, saying that people need to “stop complaining”.
Daniels, whose film Precious made him only the second black director to have ever been nominated for an Oscar, has spoken about his frustration with those who claim the past two years of all-white nominees is a clear sign of industry racism.
“Go out and do the work,” he said to the New York Times. “Oscars so white! So what? Do your work. Let your legacy speak and stop complaining, man. Are we really in this for the awards?”
He also believes that a defeatist way of thinking about Hollywood would have prevented him from achieving success.
“If I had thought that way – that the world was against me – I wouldn’t be here now,” he said. “These whiny people that think we’re owed something are incomprehensible and reprehensible to me. I don’t expect acknowledgment or acceptance from white America. I’m going to be me.”
Daniels has since gone onto achieve success with the hit TV drama Empire and new show Star, for which he cast a white actor in the lead to help America feel more unified. “I felt that the country, instinctively, I thought, needed to heal,” he said in a recent interview. “And I thought that this white girl is so fabulous that black people will embrace her and white people will embrace her.”
The next set of Oscar nominations will be announced on 24 January, and experts are predicting a more diverse set of nominees with Moonlight, Fences and Hidden Figures all expected to be in the race.
Heinrich Schiff, who has died aged 65, was recognised as one of the finest cellists of the last quarter of the 20th century, and latterly established a parallel career as a distinguished conductor. After suffering a serious stroke in 2008, which left him partly paralysed for a time, he was obliged to abandon his career as a soloist but continued to conduct.
His repertoire as an instrumentalist ran from Bach, whose solo cello suites he played with particular distinction, through Shostakovich – his recordings of the two cello concertos remain benchmarks – to contemporary music, with which he also had an affinity. He was known as a versatile but focused artist whose musicianship was enriched by his historically informed approach to style. Having played the baroque cello as a student, he developed a personal style that successfully combined historicist principles with modern techniques. He insisted, for example, on using the urtext scores, drawn from original versions, for Haydn’s two cello concertos, and his lean and lithe playing of Bach, with its stylistically aware phrasing and articulation, won him many plaudits.
In 1986 he made his conducting debut, which was followed by appointments with the Northern Sinfonia (1990-96, before its Royal title), and Vienna Chamber Orchestra (2005-08), among others. In addition to accomplished interpretations of the classical repertory, including high-octane readings of Beethoven symphonies, he was known for his encouragement of contemporary music, giving the premieres of works by John Casken, Friedrich Cerha, Luciano Berio, Hans Werner Henze and Krzysztof Penderecki. His chamber partners included the violinist Frank Peter Zimmermann and pianist Leif Ove Andsnes, and he recorded Beethoven’s complete works for cello and piano with Till Fellner (1998). The cellists Gautier Capuçon, Truls Mørk and Natalie Clein were among his notable pupils.
Born in Gmunden, Austria, to Helga (nee Riemann) and Helmut Schiff, both composers, Heinrich studied the cello with Tobias Kühne and André Navarra, making his solo debuts in Vienna and London in 1971. He subsequently studied conducting with Hans Swarovsky and made his podium debut in 1986.
His playing of the Bach suites was distinctive. The preludes would be sculpted with sweeping gestures, while the following movements unfolded lines in which semiquavers might be given short shrift but which straddled the barline and pulsated with life. Above all they danced and sang.
In the big concertos of the Romantic repertory he deployed a more generously upholstered tone, but one that was always centred. If it was the energy and dynamism of his readings of the Shostakovich concertos that struck the listener most forcefully, they were often tellingly poignant, too. His 1985 recordings of those works won him the Grand Prix du Disque. His accounts of the Schumann and Dvořák concertos were alert to their demonstrative and introverted qualities alike. In the Elgar, too, he tapped the vein of wistfulness to memorable effect, and for his recording of the Brahms Double Concerto he was joined by Zimmermann, with Wolfgang Sawallisch conducting.
He played with many leading orchestras and conductors including Claudio Abbado, Riccardo Chailly, Bernard Haitink and Simon Rattle, as well as Nikolaus Harnoncourt and Charles Mackerras, whose historically informed approach he shared.
Speaking about the technical aspect of performance, Schiff emphasised the importance of practising scales and exercises to develop and maintain finger velocity and bowing mastery alike. In such exercises, he believed, craftsmanship could be separated from emotional expression, the better to perfect one’s technical control. They also helped to develop physical fitness: “‘You have to be fitter than required and you have to have more skill than needed,” he maintained.
Of the works written for him, Casken’s concerto of 1991 opens with the cello “singing” a five-line haiku of the composer’s own by expressing it in a lyrical way while observing the syllabic structure. According to Casken, Schiff was able in performance to make that introduction, and indeed the whole work, “sing and dance in ways I had not thought possible”.
Schiff similarly exploited the long, singing lines of the concerto by Cerha, which he premiered in 1998, bringing it to the BBC Proms the following year. He also performed works with orchestra by less well known composers, including Johannes Maria Staud and Otto M Zykan.
As a conductor, Schiff transformed the sound of the Northern Sinfonia during his time as its artistic director. The string sections of other orchestras with which he worked, including the Copenhagen Philharmonic (1996-2000) and the Orchester Musikkollegium Winterthur, also benefited greatly from his experience.
His manner could be brusque and some found him difficult, but the twinkle in his eye, his sense of humour and a somewhat roguish manner made him very characterful. He could be generous, but did not like to have his wishes ignored, and woe betide the photographer who decided to snap him, having been asked not to. In 2003 he began a concert with the Munich Chamber Orchestra with a declaration against the decision to invade Iraq.
Schiff is survived by his older brother, Christian, also a musician.
• Heinrich Schiff, cellist, born 18 November 1951; died 23 December 2016
An 11-year-old British composer has earned comparisons with Mozart after her opera opened in Vienna to a standing ovation.
Alma Deutscher, who lives in Surrey with her parents, was already world-renowned as a violinist and pianist before her first full-length opera made its debut on the Austrian stage on Thursday.
The work re-imagined the Cinderella fairytale to be set in an opera house ruled by a wicked stepmother, where Cinderella is a composer whom Deutscher described as “a bit like me”.
It is Deutscher’s most ambitious work yet, having written her first piano sonata at six years old, and a short opera based on a story by Neil Gaiman when she was seven. She also performed on stage in Cinderella, playing musical interludes on the piano and violin.
“I never get nervous on stage, as I’m just happy that people want to come and listen to my music,” she told the Guardian earlier this year. “When I play, I am in control, I know what I’m doing and so I don’t see what there is to be nervous about.”
Deutscher, whose mother is an organ scholar at Oxford and father is an amateur flautist, said much of the musical inspiration behind Cinderella and other compositions came when her mind was elsewhere.
“Quite a few of my melodies and themes for this opera came while I was skipping,” she told Radio 4’s Today programme. “I take my skipping rope to the rehearsals and skip with it in the breaks.”
She told NBC’s Today show that “the funny thing is that when I try to get beautiful melodies it usually never comes and my mind just goes blank. For example, a few days ago when I was in bed resting in the middle of the night then I got this beautiful melody.”
The opera is two and a half hours long with the musical score running to 237 pages. Instead of the glass slipper of the fairytale, the prince looks for a lost melody he cannot quite remember. She said: “I thought the prince having to ask whose foot would fit the slipper doesn’t make much sense. Lots of people might have the same sized foot, but only one person could have written that melody.”
Conductor Simon Rattle declared he was “absolutely bowled over” when he first saw her perform, but it was Stephen Fry who first speculated that Deutscher could be this generation’s Mozart, after watching a video of her performing on YouTube. However, it is not a comparison that the 11-year-old is particularly keen on.
She said: “I love Mozart very much, he’s probably my favourite composer, but I don’t really like it when people call me ‘Little Miss Mozart’ because I don’t like being called ‘little’. I’m very big, and secondly, if I just wrote everything Mozart wrote again it would be boring.”
A postmortem into the death of George Michael has proved inconclusive, and further tests will be carried out, police have said.
The 53-year-old singer was found dead at his home in Goring-on-Thames, Oxfordshire on Christmas Day.
Michael’s publicist said his family and friends had been “touched beyond words” by the “incredible outpouring of love” from fans, adding that there were no suspicious circumstances around his death.
The postmortem was carried out on Thursday. Thames Valley police said: “The cause of death is inconclusive and further tests will now be carried out. The results of these tests are unlikely to be known for several weeks.
“Thames Valley police will prepare a file for the Oxfordshire coroner. Michael’s death is still being treated as unexplained but not suspicious.”
Fadi Fawaz, who began seeing Michael following his split from former long-term partner Kenny Goss, said he found the star dead in bed when he arrived to wake him before a planned Christmas Day lunch.
He described Michael as a “beautiful person” and a “kind and generous man”, while Goss said he was devastated by the death.
Several days after his late partner’s death, Fawaz shared a link on Twitter to a previously unreleased song by Michael called This Kind Of Love. The song is believed to be from an album that Michael recorded in 1991 with Elton John and other collaborators entitled Trojan Souls, but was never released.
He later removed the link, amid reports that lawyers for the late singer’s estate had protested, claiming the star did not want the track released.
But in another tweet, Fawaz wrote:
The song I posted was found online they are many versions of it, please do your research if u think you r professional in what u do.
Andrew Ridgeley, Michael’s partner in Wham! and lifelong friend, has said that the musician’s wishes should be respected when it comes to to releasing “lost” songs. “GM controlled all his output. I, nor anyone else have the right to transgress that principle,” he tweeted.
Fans have clamoured to buy and download Michael’s music since his death, with six of his albums breaking into the top 100 album chart on Friday, including The Final, his last album with Wham! in 1986, and 2014’s Symphonica.
Ladies and Gentlemen, his greatest hits collection, broke the top 10 for the first time in 17 years by re-entering at number eight, with a combined sales and streams surge of more than 5,600%. Wham!’s single Last Christmas reached number seven in the singles chart, returning to the top 10 for the first time in 31 years, while Careless Whisper placed just outside the top 40 at 44. Michael’s duet with Elton John, Don’t Let the Sun Go Down on Me, came in at 91, while Faith hit number 64 and Freedom ‘90 topped the official vinyl singles chart.
John played an emotional tribute to Michael this week during a concert in Las Vegas. With a picture of Michael lighting up the backdrop of the stage, he performed Don’t Let the Sun Go Down on Me and said his death was one of the “saddest moments” of his career. He said he knew Michael from the start of Wham! and the two collaborated on music.
John also tweeted a photo of the two.
Reports this week suggested Michael had left the bulk of his estimated £105m fortune to his older sister Melanie, a hairdresser who travelled with him for much of his career, with his other older sister, Yioda, also sharing in his wealth.
The Sun quoted a source as saying: “George was very close to his sisters, and the understanding is that they’re going to inherit most of his wealth, particularly Melanie, who he was incredibly close to.”
Other reports suggested Michael’s godchildren were also likely to benefit, including the two children of Shirlie Kemp, his former backing singer while in Wham!, and the children of his cousin Andros.
Stories have emerged since Michael’s death of his many acts of discreet generosity, including putting on a free concert for NHS nurses, tipping a hard-up waitress £5,000, and volunteering anonymously at a homeless shelter.
He supported a range of charities including the Terrence Higgins Trust, Macmillan Cancer Support and Childline.
Your editorial (A German lesson for Britain, 27 December) raises important questions about Britain’s response to its imperial past. But it runs the risk of conflating some quite distinct issues. It is certainly true that the creation of a national museum devoted to empire is almost inconceivable in contemporary Britain. No one would want to lead such a project unless they relished the prospect of spending a good few years defending themselves on social media. And were the government to raise the idea, the Guardian would without doubt – and with good reason – be at the forefront of those questioning their motives. But this may be more a sign of fierce debate than collective amnesia.
You also bemoan the fact that Britain lacks “a shared view of history” or indeed “a common culture generally”. Here you enter more dangerous territory. Both have more to do with the top-down imposition of national mythologies than with a creative engagement with the past. Debates about the sort of history children should learn in school usually have as their unspoken subtext the question of what it is “good for them” to know and believe. The idea of history as a morally improving magic lantern show is one that many professional historians, myself included, would treat with extreme caution. Nevertheless, we all have a duty to ensure that the ever more rich and varied insights being generated by academic research on imperialism feed into a genuinely informed public discussion of empire.Professor Philip MurphyDirector, Institute of Commonwealth Studies
• How strange to see the word “colonialism” in your headline. Words such as colonialism, imperialism, jingoism and empire feel awkward and discredited terms that belong to a significant chapter in British history. For the best part of two centuries, when the sun would never set on the British empire, Britain was the superpower; its industrial, financial and political dominance was virtually unquestioned. In that sense, it can be seen as a “glorious” period of British history.
As you rightly point out, however, Britain seems unable to reflect on the foundations of its colonial supremacy – subjugation, oppression and discrimination – while Germany appears to have accepted its history, by holding exhibitions and negotiating with its former colonies. How sad that our attempt at self-examination – the British Empire and Commonwealth Museum in Bristol – was so short-lived and mired in controversy. Could not politicians, historians and museums work together to develop a permanent legacy that acknowledges the “complex and difficult truths” about our colonial past? It would be a fascinating history lesson for all British – and global – citizens to learn. Michael HobbinsWoking, Surrey
• The Guardian is right to bring to our attention the noble efforts being made in Germany to address its own savage colonial history and it is timely as a post-EU Britain tries to find its new place in the world. It is essential to state that our place in that world was forged out of the suffering of the poor and the British empire was built more on horror than honour. Maybe now, after the exposures of our relatively recent abuses of the Chagos Islanders and the torture of the Mau Mau rebels – likely to be the tip of the iceberg – a start might be for the government to release all the remaining papers relating to our colonies, at least those that have not been destroyed. Much of our history has been stolen or swept under the heavy carpet of official secrets acts. Your own Ian Cobain’s The History Thieves illuminates these dark places.
A Museum of the British Empire would be a harrowing place to visit, but perhaps if it existed it might have fostered a view of our nation more grounded in the reality our own grim, dependent past. Such a view would have, for instance, made us far warier of isolation from the EU and our view of immigration would be, partly at least, based on the massive debt this nation owes to the blood, sweat and tears of the victims of the British empire. A Britain removed from the European project, paying even a tiny proportion of our debt to our former colonies, living only off our own means, is going to be a very different place indeed. In the shadow of the Museum of the British Empire lies our future.Dr Colin BannonCrapstone, Devon
• Britain’s colonial past is indeed still with us and nowhere more so than in the Middle East. Next year will mark the centenary of the Balfour declaration, a colonial document whose consequences were disastrous for the colonised people of Mandate Palestine and their region. No worse calamity could have befallen the Palestinians than to have Britain promise their country to another people over their heads in 1917, and then invite the newcomers to take over, a process that led to the destruction of historic Palestine in 1948.
Today’s Palestinian fragmentation into a nation of refugees, exiles and occupied people, with no common homeland, and the intractable Israeli-Palestinian conflict and regional instability and all that has caused, are direct results of Balfour’s careless declaration. It would be only fitting for 2017 to be the year when Britain acknowledges what its past colonial decisions over Palestine led to and offers a long overdue apology and reparations to the victims of a particularly egregious piece of British colonialism.Dr Ghada KarmiLondon
• Your editorial is most instructive. The benefits of colonialism have been well argued in numerous historical works; even scholars from former British colonies show an empathetic understanding of the British imperial past. Nevertheless, as in Germany, it is vital for historians and teachers of history not to shy away from researching and teaching about the violence of both the official colonial state and numerous British people towards colonial subjects over nearly four centuries. This is particularly necessary if our young people are not to be seduced into the euphoria of national glorification in post-Brexit Britain.Burjor AvariVisiting research fellow, Department of History, Manchester Metropolitan University
• Anglo-Saxon exceptionalism, or the Eurosceptic historians for Britain, seems to have infiltrated the Guardian Review on Christmas Eve. Philip Hensher tells us, reviewing a book on Handel’s Messiah, that “early 18th-century London was unusually open to European influences”. This left me puzzling as to when London had been closed to European influences in the centuries since the Romans founded it, the Flemings and Hansa established their trading houses, religious orders from France and Italy set up monasteries and friaries, and reformers from Prague, Amsterdam and Geneva promoted religious change. The Hanoverians were of course German kings; but the English (or British) royal family had rarely been entirely native in the centuries before then, and the court had always maintained active European links.
Bernard Porter, reviewing a book on Britain’s role in shaping production and trade in alcohol, then credits the British empire with introducing viticulture to South Africa. But the British only took over Cape Colony in the Napoleonic wars; the Constantia wine that Napoleon quaffed on St Helena came from vines originally planted by Dutch settlers, enhanced and improved by the Huguenots who joined them over a century before the British arrived. Daniel Hannan, Andrew Roberts and others tell us frequently in the rightwing press that everything worthwhile in the world – from freedom to sport and capitalism – came from the Anglo-Saxon imagination. The Guardian should be careful to offer its readers a perspective that admits that good ideas and products have also flowed into Britain from across the Channel.William WallaceHouse of Lords
• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com
• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters
I am full of admiration for Phil Scraton, who has refused an OBE as a protest both against those who failed to admit responsibility for the Hillsborough disaster in 1989 and also those who remained unresponsive to efforts to establish the truth (Report, 30 December). Perhaps his action will help to bring the end of these discredited and ridiculous awards. The establishment will do nothing to effect change unless good people refuse to accept the awards or return those already accepted.Brenda BanksTeignmouth, Devon
• Your correspondent on this issue (Letters, 29 December) refers to research that indicates that learning from screens is non interactive and therefore not productive. My 10-year-old grandson, who quickly became bored with one-to-one guitar lessons, and could never be induced to practise, has become an adept and enthusiastic electric and acoustic guitar player from watching YouTube videos of his preferred 70s and 80s rock guitarists. He plays all the riffs by ear and for pleasure for hours. (Perhaps not quite so much pleasure for his grandparents!)Pat StaplesSouthampton
• The plea (Letters, 30 December) to review the use of “to sleep with” reminds me of the exchange heard many years ago: “Did you sleep with him?”. “Not a wink.”Philip BrowningNewport, Shropshire
• The confusion over plurals (Letters, 30 December) extends to the creeping use of kudos as a plural, imported from America, where a single kudo is often metaphorically awarded to someone. What next? A short pause is a hiatu?Karl SabbaghBloxham, Oxfordshire
• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com
• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters
Ronald Bergan’s fine obituary of Michèle Morgan shows how, like so many other of Europe’s creative people, her life was fractured by fascism and war in the 1930s and 1940s.
Her performance in The Fallen Idol (1948) throws clear light on this. With the writer Graham Greene and the director Carol Reed at the top of their form, this little masterpiece is set in the embassy of a French-speaking nation in postwar London. Morgan plays a typist in love with the embassy’s English butler, Baines, superbly played by Ralph Richardson.
She personifies a woman whose exile and work have forced her to learn English and English ways, when she so obviously longs for French language and customs. Helped not only by Richardson but by actors including Sonia Dresdel, Jack Hawkins and Bobby Henrey (in perhaps the finest peformance by a child in cinema history), Morgan evokes the pain both of a woman lost in love and also of a French refugee alone in London.
Run-DMC have filed a $50m (£40.7m) lawsuit against retailers including Amazon, accusing them of trading on the group’s name without permission.
Darryl “DMC” McDaniels, founding member of the legendary rap group, claims that the stores, which also included Walmart and Jet, did not have the right to sell products including T-shirts, wallets and hats bearing the Run-DMC logo. McDaniels, who owns a firm named Run-DMC Brand, said that these products violated federal trademark laws.
Keen to stress the value of the brand’s iconic logo, McDaniels pointed out that it had been licensed legitimately in the past to sportswear companies such as Adidas.
McDaniels founded Run DMC in 1981 along with fellow rapper Joseph “Run” Simmons and DJ Jam Master Jay, who was shot dead in 2002. Their hits include King of Rock, It’s Tricky and the pioneering Aerosmith cover Walk This Way.
Amazon and Walmart have yet to comment on the lawsuit.
Relatives of Debbie Reynolds and Carrie Fisher hope to organise a joint memorial service for them as tributes continued to pour in following their deaths within a day of eachother.
Fisher’s brother Todd said funeral plans were being made and it was “likely” his mother and sister would share a joint memorial service. He told the New York Daily News: “It’s what we want to do, but we’re still working on the mechanics. We like the idea, if it’s at all possible. I think it’s appropriate.”
Reynolds, 84, died from a suspected stroke on Wednesday, just a day after Fisher, 60, died in hospital. She had suffered a heart attack on a flight from London to Los Angeles on 23 December.
Todd Fisher said that, shortly before Reynolds fell ill, she had expressed an interest in laying her only daughter to rest at the spot where she planned to be buried.
He had earlier shared a drawing of his mother and sister, in which they were depicted embracing each other as their most famous movie characters.
This is a beautiful love story to witness in my 58 years. I miss them both so much. Love is everlasting pic.twitter.com/AeIVGaGl9k
The sketch, posted on Fisher’s Twitter account, shows his sister Carrie dressed as Princess Leia from Star Wars and Reynolds in a raincoat as Kathy Selden from Singin’ In The Rain.
Bruce Bozzi, the stepfather to Fisher’s only child, Billie Lourd, wrote a heartfelt message saying he was “honoured” to be part of Lourd’s family following the loss of her mother and grandmother.
Bozzi, who is married to Fisher’s ex-partner Bryan Lourd, posted a photo of Lourd, 24, with Fisher and Reynolds at her university graduation ceremony.
@praisethelourd it's an honor to be your Stepfather. This day, your NYU grad day we had so much fun! Yankee Stadium your mom and I laughed our asses off, as she kept one fantastic line coming after the other - no less when we all fell asleep the night before in the smaller ceremony because it was so boring. Every time Carrie looked at me she said " how are you still awake"! Your grandmother with our sweet Ava was the kindest most loving. So...as Carrie said to me years ago " I'm a good stepmother" I promise I will always be & the strength of these women live so vibrantly in you. I've been lucky enough to see this for a decade! Many decades to come.....heaven just got a shit load more fun!!!! I love you @praisethelourd xo Bru Thursday 12/29/16
A photo posted by Bruce Bozzi (@brucebozzi) on Dec 29, 2016 at 10:53am PST
He wrote: “It’s an honor to be your stepfather.
“As Carrie said to me years ago ‘I’m a good stepmother’ I promise I will always be & the strength of these women live so vibrantly in you.”
Todd Fisher announced Reynolds’ death on Wednesday as he revealed her last words were about her late daughter. “She said, ‘I want to be with Carrie’,” he said. “And then she was gone.”
A moment of professional crisis and self-loathing inspired Gideon Mendel’s photographs of abandoned objects in the now-demolished Calais refugee camp. He had travelled to the site to participate in a thoughtful-sounding project, where refugees were loaned cameras to allow them to document their own experiences. But it wasn’t going tremendously well; the refugees had more pressing concerns on their hands than documenting their own lives, such as finding food and somewhere to sleep.
Mendel was disturbed by the level of hostility that cameras provoked. “There were so many cameras coming in; there were no gatekeepers, because it wasn’t an official camp, so any photography student, tourist or sympathiser could wander in. The general feeling was that the camera was an enemy of some sort.”
He was also bewildered by the array of misguided benevolent ventures converging on the camp: “Calais felt at times like a music festival gone wrong.” During one visit in early May, he watched as a Spanish circus came waltzing through the tents and huts with jugglers and musicians, followed by a Christian procession with a healing donkey and, later, a delegation of sympathisers from Essex – all taking pictures. “They were making a donation, and they had to be photographed handing over the cash,” he says. “There were all kinds of weird and wonderful and terrible things that came into the camp. I thought, ‘What people really need is immigration lawyers.’”
He followed the procession into a church built by Eritrean refugees from sticks and tarpaulin, and had just begun to take some pictures when he was confronted by a refugee who started shouting at him: “You fucking photographers. You come here and you take our photographs and you tell us that it’s going to help us, but nothing changes. The only person that it helps is you.” It was an acutely worded attack, and Mendel became “quite revolted with the idea of photographing in the camp. I didn’t want to lift a camera any more.”
He was already uneasy with the photographic tropes that have emerged from the crisis: the lines of waiting, needy people; the emotional faces of people trying to cross borders; the queues of people stepping off boats; the images of people sitting around campfires; the shacks. “The most infamous image of queueing migrants is the one Ukip used so brilliantly, playing on the sense that they are queueing to come and take stuff that is ours. Even if the intention of the photographer is compassionate and sympathetic, the usage can be problematic and add to the stigma and the fear.”
But Mendel was reluctant to retreat from the subject. His work has always focused on challenging subjects; his last major project was Drowning World, a series of portraits of people in homes submerged by flood waters, highlighting the effects of climate change. The migrant story had a personal resonance. His parents were refugees from Nazi Germany; his father’s mother died in the Holocaust. He felt moved by the difficulties faced by the thousands of people stuck in Calais.
So Mendel turned his gaze to the detritus left behind. His photographs of abandoned toothbrushes and soft toys encrusted with mud and sand give a powerful alternative portrait of the human misery of the camp. Eighteen months of the refugee crisis have made many in Britain hardened and desensitised to the issue. The Guardian’s own online news consumption analysis shows that articles about refugees are often clicked on in small numbers. Readers have been cauterised to the pain of the unfolding human disasters and are often jaundiced in their approach to individual stories. The shock factor of distressing images has waned through repeated exposure – all of which makes Mendel’s sideways view more arresting, harder to skip over. His pictures of flattened footballs, singed clothes, ripped sleeping bags and recycled teargas canisters force you to think about the experiences of the people who lived in the camp. A picture of muddy children’s gloves reminds you of the utter squalor that infected the whole site.
He has lined up worn-down shoes with the forensic precision of a medical photographer. “The shoes speak of distress. Some shoes are burnt; fire was a recurring thing in the camp, first because there was no electricity, just candles, so a lot of things were burned accidentally, and later people were torching things before the demolition.”
Anxious to avoid the pictures becoming “ruin porn”, another photographic cliche (used particularly in relation to the beautiful images of post-industrial Detroit), Mendel was careful to display the objects in as dignified a way as possible. “There was such chaos in the place, I had this instinct to make things as organised and neat as I could.” He made several trips to dig around in the sandy wasteland, sifting through layers of rubbish, asking himself, “How would someone in 1,000 years understand what had happened here?” This activity was viewed with bemusement by the camp’s inhabitants, but without the antagonism that photography provoked.
His last trip was made as the camp was demolished by French police, and the inhabitants were bussed to nearby hostels, where many remain, applying for formal asylum in France. Others have returned to sleep rough in smaller settlements along the coast, still trying to make their way to join relatives in the UK.
Just before the site was sealed by police, Mendel carted away black bin bags full of rubbish: burnt children’s books (including The Tiger Who Came To Tea by Judith Kerr, herself a refugee), scraps of bedding, used tampons (a reminder, he says, of the particular difficulty of being a woman in a camp of 10,000 people with just a handful of Portaloos). To the “non-delight” of his family, he still has a collection of bits in the basement. His project has provoked scepticism from his teenage son, who said, “Dad, most people bring things to refugee camps. You go in and take things away.”
Mendel hopes that the pictures will “touch people on a deep emotional level. I want to do work that makes an impact, that touches people’s consciousness. I wish I could offer a clear response and say, You can do this to help the situation; but I’m afraid that isn’t there for me. The work is my response to this world, where you have places of relative safety and places of danger; places of wealth and places of poverty.”
• This year’s Guardian appeal is in aid of child refugees; to donate, go to theguardian.com/charity-appeal-2016
An exhibition of these pictures, Gideon Mendel: Dzhangal, runs at Autograph ABP Gallery, London EC2 from 6 January-11 February (admission free). A book, Dzhangal, is published on 27 January by Gost Books.
Pour yourself a sloe gin and park the children in front of CBeebies’ annual festive offering, as their top characters take on The Nutcracker. The plot is watertight: a pair of kids travel to the Land of Sweets on Christmas Eve and see their toys coming to life. The stars performed the show live at Sheffield’s Crucible theatre, so it is the true entertainers who shine: step forward show-stealing Justin “Mr Tumble” Fletcher, who is a magical choice of storyteller. Hannah Verdier
Returning for one last hurrah, Ian McKellen and Derek Jacobi reprise their roles as sniping septuagenarians Freddie and Stuart in a special that traces a year in the couple’s lives. Sadly, while there are plenty of gags in the Great British Joke Book that bear revisiting, Vicious yet again too often ignores these in favour of gratuitous swearing and one-liners that should have been left in the 1970s. Alternatively, postmodern campery of the very highest order. Jonathan Wright
Last in the series of the chef’s pleasurably self-indulgent mini-breaks. Stein’s strength lies in making any country’s cuisine accessible by approaching it in an unpretentious manner, which is exactly what he does in Palermo. Here, influences from Italy, Spain, France, north Africa and the Middle East melt together in one nutty, sun-ripened pot of flavour. Additionally, Rick gets a cookery lesson from a duchess, and throws together his own masala chicken. Jack Seale
This latest comedy vehicle for David Walliams comes complete with a sidecar: each week, a special guest star dives into the dressing-up box for some knockabout sketches and endless spoofs of other TV shows. Tonight’s instalment features Goodness Gracious Me veteran Meera Syal, who shines as both a bossy grandma-turned-unrelenting police interrogator and a recent divorcee tentatively getting to grips with a sexbot. Graeme Virtue
There are two types of techno buff: those who need to have the very latest stuff right now, and retro obsessives who hanker for yesteryear’s gizmos. Journalist Harry Wallop shares tips with Ortis Deley for cash-strapped early adopters, while Jason Bradbury reveals how some of your less-than-current gadgets and hardware may be floggable. Meanwhile, Jon Bentley vets three televisions for value for money, and Amy Williams road-tests TV-streaming services. David Stubbs
Final instalment of Paul Rose’s trudge along all 630 miles of the South West Coast Path, which traces the edges of Britain’s lower left-hand corner. This episode finds Rose in Devon and Dorset, hunting fossils and meeting a swanherd, among other diversions. These are largely incidental, however, to the show’s primary selling point: luxuriant shots of glorious views. It seems reasonable to suppose that the path will be more crowded next spring. Andrew Mueller
Who knows how many further names there are on Red’s apparently infinite list of decreasingly probable global villains? Tonight, it’s a particularly fiendish case: a scientist who conducts experiments enabling criminals to alter their identities, with sometimes grisly consequences. Meanwhile, a medical emergency forces Liz to establish for certain if Alexander Kirk is her biological father. James Spader as Red is the series’ redeeming joy. David Stubbs
Jackie Brown (Quentin Tarantino, 1997), 11.25pm, ITV4
Based on Elmore Leonard’s Rum Punch, this is one of the best screen adaptations of the author’s work. Pam Grier is the not-so-young heroine, trying to make a living – then a killing – in LA gangsterland. The music is soulful, the dialogue crackles and the characters – bail bondsman Robert Forster, Samuel L Jackson’s deadly arms dealer, his stoned girlfriend Bridget Fonda and Robert De Niro’s dim hood – are right on the money. Paul Howlett
The Other Boleyn Girl (Justin Chadwick, 2008), 12.50am, Channel 4
Adapted from Philippa Gregory’s novel, this account of the sisters vying to be Henry VIII’s (Eric Bana) mistress numero uno is a handsomely made, old-fashioned bodice-ripper. Scarlett Johansson is a Snow White-like Mary, while Natalie Portman is sister Anne, whose machinations would make Lucrezia Borgia blush. Paul Howlett
Alpine Skiing: The World Cup From Val d’Isère in France, featuring the first run of the women’s downhill combined. 9.15am, Eurosport 2
Championship Football: Norwich City v Huddersfield Town Canaries meet Terriers. 7pm, Sky Sports 1
Test Cricket: India v England Coverage of the second day from MA Chidambaram Stadium in Chennai. 3.45am, Sky Sports 2
The long flowing line of Stanage Edge is, for rock climbers, one of the world’s great crags, segmented, like a gritstone worm, into various buttresses and features, each of them named, each providing many different routes to the top, each of those – and there are hundreds – also named.
I am at a buttress at the crag’s southern end known, paradoxically, as Apparent North, near a short tough climb called Hamper’s Hang. I am shrinking inside my jacket against a dismal wet day. I thought I knew this place, having been here as a climber scores of times, but my understanding of it has just been turned on its head.
With me is Bill Gordon, for more than 30 years warden of this part of Stanage, which is still, for the time being at least, in public ownership. Gordon’s profound relationship with this place, and his quicksilver mind, have had imaginative consequences. He is, for example, an expert on ring ouzel dialects.
Now he is tracing his finger along some letters cut into the gritstone nearby that I have never noticed before. One is an M, formed by two inverted Vs, a symbol termed apotropaic, meaning to ward off evil, which can be read as “Virgin of virgins” or Mary.
In a large flat rock buried in the ground, Gordon points out post holes, carved to allow the construction of a wood-framed wall against the overhanging rock to complete a half-formed natural shelter.
At what would have been the back of this shelter I can see that in the deeper recesses the rock has been blackened by wood smoke. It was most likely used by shepherds several hundred years ago, but the age of these symbols is open to question. The inverted VV symbol was commonly used between 1550 and 1750, long before roads were good, or Sheffield, just over the hill, was a city.
There is graffiti nearby from 1766 that postdates this, but beyond that the imagination is left to fill the gaps. Marooned up here on a bleak night, close by the fire, with a folk memory of wolves and a firm belief in evil spirits, who wouldn’t need protection?
If you’re going to play Barack Obama – the first black man to become United States president; a man whose departure from the White House leaves the world divided and in turmoil; a role you’ve dreamed about since you were in high school in Perth, Australia, watching his inauguration speech – you’re going to want to do your homework.
For Devon Terrell – an Australian actor who, remarkably, had no screen credits to his name when he landed the role in Netflix’s new biopic, Barry – it became something of an obsession.
“I get addicted to this kind of research,” the 24-year-old says, in Sydney for a press tour ahead of the film’s release. “I read [Obama’s memoir] Dreams from My Father three times, and kept reading it afterwards as well. I just wanted to understand who he was as a young man.”
Based only on public record research material (with liberties taken here and there), the unauthorised biopic covers a year in the president’s early life: 1981, when the young Barack Obama arrives at Columbia University as a chain-smoking transfer student, struggling to work out exactly where he fits and who he wants to be.
Terrell had only a couple of months to prepare for the film, which was shot in less than six weeks. A perfectionist, he learned to write and play basketball with his left hand like Obama (in the film, it’s on the basketball court where Barry first feels at home in New York). Terrell also had to master the accent, learn how to hold himself like the future president and effectively develop his own version of one of the world’s most famous men – a performance the film-makers wanted to be more homage than impersonation.
He also had to lose weight. “Obama is long and lanky ... I had to find the lankiness,” Terrell says. “I actually had to lose about six to eight kilos in two months, because I was quite – I’d been going to the gym.”
Obama’s mother is American, his absent father is Kenyan, and he grew up between Indonesia and Hawaii; the New York he arrived in in 1981 was crime-ridden, racially divided and glaring in its inequality. In the film, his boorish, drug-addled roommate Will (Ellar Coltrane) describes him as “just white enough”; as Barry himself puts it, “I fit in nowhere”. It’s a tension that becomes magnified when he starts dating Charlotte (Anya Taylor-Joy) – a character composite of three white women Obama dated in his first year at Columbia.
Written by Adam Mansbach and directed by Vikram Gandhi of Vice – who studied at Columbia after Obama had graduated and lived next door to the building Obama had moved in to – the film is sweet, thoughtful and compelling, if occasionally undercooked in the plot department. It premiered to wide acclaim at Toronto Film Festival this year, drawing favourable comparisons to another Obama biopic, which was set a decade later, but released a few months earlier: Southside With You.
Terrell was “super excited” when he heard about the role in Barry – just after he discovered that an HBO series he’d been working on with Steve McQueen, Codes of Conduct, had been cut after the pilot. The opportunity to even audition as Obama was enough to salve that disappointment; it was the role he had always wanted.
He recalls: “When I was studying at Nida [the National Institute of Dramatic Art in Sydney], my older cousin sat me down and said, ‘What’s your goal?’. And I said, ‘My life goal is to play Barack Obama, that’s it’. I just idolised the man growing up. He was somebody I wanted to be like.”
Terrell had a lot to draw from. Born in the US to an Anglo-Indian mother and an African American father, he moved to Perth, in Western Australia, when he was a young child. “There are no other African American Anglo-Indians there, I can tell you that!” he says with a laugh. Although he’s not a dead ringer for the young president, he’s not far off.
“Racism was never really an issue in my life, but I was always code-shifting as a young man,” he says. “I had to switch my accent from American to Australian – I became very ocker; very, ‘Hey how ya goin’ – but Nida slapped that out of me. I think that’s kind of why I became an actor – because I was so used to putting on different masks as a young man.”
While Terrell can serve up a convincing impersonation of the president (and is happy to prove it), he wanted Barry to be a stand-alone character. There are some recognisable tics there – the stutter, the voice, the way he purses his lips while deep in thought – but there’s also a lack of surety, a vulnerability, the self-conscious unease that comes with youth. The Guardian’s Jordan Hoffman described his performance as one with “striking depth”.
“Obama is everywhere, you know, so I just had to block him out of my brain,” Terrell explains. “I didn’t watch TV; I just watched and rewatched a 56-minute clip of him when he was younger.” That Obama, speaking about Dreams from My Father to a Cambridge audience in 1995, had poise – but also a charming lack of confidence. “I just imagined – I said, ‘If that’s him at 30, at 21 he was not assured at all’,” Terrell says.
From that clip, Terrell learned how to speak like Obama: “His accent kind of whirls in the air; it’s kind of ethereal, the way he speaks. He doesn’t say what he needs to say until the end of his sentences ... and he’s never someone to jump on an emotion.” In one scene in Barry, a gun is pulled on the young Obama. “He doesn’t react; he’s kind of, ‘How am I going to work my way around this situation?’ He’s a very methodical thinker.”
The enormity of an unknown actor from Perth landing this particular role at this particular time is not lost on Terrell, who admits he was initially “daunted” by the prospect. But on the eve of the film’s global release, the young actor is just looking forward to getting it out there.
“My family is absurdly excited – like, they’ve never been so excited,” he says with a laugh. “I’m sure my mum’s going to have Netflix on every day now. She’s obsessed.”
• Barry launches on Netflix at 7pm AEST on 16 December
When Powell and Pressburger’s beloved film The Red Shoes appeared in 1948, it insisted on finding meaning in the disillusioned aftermath of the second world war. Matthew Bourne’s enthralling new stage version sweeps into our own age of austerity and despair. Its heroine commits to the art that sustains her, even as it devours her.
Vicky Page, an aspirant ballerina, hopes to impress an impresario – Boris Lermontov, the Diaghilev-alike director of an itinerant, innovative ballet company. Lermontov’s talent is talent-spotting. He’s a master watcher, and in the press night cast, Sam Archer plays him as superbly poker-faced. He would rather pick lint off his suit than watch a galumphing wannabe – but Vicky nonetheless snags his attention. He invites her, along with Julian Craster, a crosspatch young composer, to join the company. Under Lermontov’s eye, the two eager artists realise their gifts – until their romance threatens his creative plans.
Everyone here is consumed by their work. Lez Brotherston designs a mobile proscenium arch that swivels abruptly between front and backstage, swoops the dancers around and devours the space – while Paule Constable’s lighting switches from grand to grotty as Vicky leaves the glamorous Riviera for a tatty East End music hall. Music culled from Hollywood composer Bernard Herrmann’s early scores (Citizen Kane; The Ghost and Mrs Muir) is a revelation. Sensitively orchestrated by Terry Davies, it’s plushly romantic, but with razors tucked into the velvet melodies.
When Lermontov moves towards Vicky, it’s a kind of seduction – the puppet master cherishing his marionette. Ashley Shaw plays up Vicky’s ambition and creamy assurance. Passing her audition, she gives a tiny smile of glee; when the star ballerina is injured, she’s already watching for her chance; when Lermontov offers her the lead in his new ballet, he carries her into a spotlight where she looks perfectly at home.
Bourne makes juicy movement the index of creative passion. Only Lermontov, without whom no one moves, retains his ramrod stillness. Even a private solo is half-hearted, half-bodied: when he tangos at a giddy company party, it’s greeted as a huge event. In contrast, inspiration sets Julian (Dominic North) rolling his keyboard around, possessing the stage as his imagination hums. The Red Shoes ballet that makes Vicky a star also captures her heedless need to dance: she’s as driven as Herrmann’s relentless, galloping score from Fahrenheit 451.
That ballet, closing the show’s first act, seals Lermontov’s cutting-edge credentials: futuristic, monochrome, with incisive expressionist movement. It’s no fairy tale: Vicky’s heroine receives her scarlet pointe shoes from a Lermontov-style seducer, and retains them even as they nudge her off balance, wear her down. In time, the ballet will become Vicky’s own vivid living nightmare.
Like the set, the show moves with a zip. It could use some breathing space to nail key plot turns. An ensemble rippling with personality includes Michela Meazza and Liam Mower as the fictional company’s languid stars – not so much rehearsing as walking a costume through its paces. There’s a daily class with ciggies wedged into mouths, and ballet pastiches involving gamey melodrama, beachside antics and vehement allegory.
Already richly satisfying, The Red Shoes will surely gain in detail and resonance. Bourne can’t replicate the film’s most celebrated exchange – when Lermontov asks “Why do you want to dance?” and Vicky shoots back, “Why do you want to live?” But you feel that need humming through the dancers’ veins.
Eugène Green is an international treasure: an American-born French film-maker who, like Manoel De Oliveira, absorbs the stylised, rarefied elegance of classical theatre and brings it to movies about the present day. The Portuguese Nun (2009) was a gem of gentle comedy, and his new drama, The Son of Joseph, has the same droll innocence and lovability. With its carefully controlled, decelerated dialogue, it is weirdly moving in just the same way. Again, it has something of Rivette or Rohmer, and like Ozu (or Wes Anderson), he uses that most eccentric technique – direct sightlines into camera.
Vincent (Victor Ezenfis) is a lonely teenage boy, alienated from his peers. We first see him walking away when a couple of charmless schoolfriends start tormenting a rat in a cage. (The closing credits assure us that the rat, named Gargantua, finished shooting unharmed.) Vincent discovers that his single mum, Marie (Natacha Régnier), was impregnated and virtually abandoned 16 years before by the arrogant publisher and Parisian man-about-town Oscar Pormenor, played hilariously by Mathieu Amalric. Vincent’s furious obsession with Oscar ends up with him befriending Oscar’s equally angry and dispossessed brother Joseph, played by Dardennes stalwart Fabrizio Rongione. Joseph falls in love with Marie, and the names of Victor’s mum and quasi-dad achieve a new significance. There is an amusing turn from Maria de Medeiros as Violette Tréfouille, a ditsy literary critic and serial party invitee.
The Eagle Huntress is a documentary that has won golden opinions on the festival circuit, about a bright teenage Kazakh girl called Aisholpan who breaks with tradition to hunt with an eagles – a traditional art generally pursued by boys, so that her talent is much frowned upon by grumpy older menfolk.
Being an eagle huntress (the film a little superciliously insists on that “-ess” suffix) involves stealing a three-month-old eaglet from its nest, training it, hunting with it, then letting it go after seven years.
This is a very nicely filmed piece of work. Aisholpan is very personable, and there are some eagle-vs-prey scenes that could go into Planet Earth II. Michael Morpurgo could write a children’s novel about it, from the eagle’s point of view. But it’s a documentary with no surprises, no challenges, nothing to startle or upset you. It requires of you nothing but the risk-free liberalism necessary for endorsing the idea of gender-neutral eagle hunting in Asia. It sometimes feels like a beakless, clawless Kes. You naturally know what you are supposed to think about Aisholpan being an eagle huntress, you naturally know whether she is going to win a local competition and go on to prove herself in the wintry mountains. It’s a film that comes with a sealed and laminated happy ending. Well, Aisholpan has found her vocation: good for her.
In her debut movie, Fill the Void (2012), the Israeli writer-director Rama Burshtein showed a connoisseur’s eye for the way women and men respond to the universal and overwhelming pressure to get married. She returns to that theme in this gentler and more indulgent comedy, which takes a little time to grow on you. It looks like a rather traditional romcom, and concludes in that vein, but via unexpected detours and red herrings and a very tense, strange wedding scene.
Mischal (Noa Kooler) is a single woman who quirkily runs a petting zoo. She is desperate to get married. So lonely and desperate, in fact, after a string of awful dates and a failed engagement, that she eventually books a wedding hall for a certain date and invites guests, trusting to a kind of magical thinking, or that this booking will be like Kevin Costner’s baseball diamond: if she sets it up, the groom will somehow come. Perhaps she intends to shame or embarrass her male circle of friends into submission, or just defy fate. The real-time agony of the wedding day itself has an edge-of-the-seat factor, and Kooler gives a sensitive, emotionally generous performance.
Yuck. Yeecccch. Yikes. Yooowwww. Is there any other reaction to the subject of rats? Morgan Spurlock’s documentary about the horrible critters pretty much sticks to this basic response. I kept waiting for him to tell us that the rat issue is getting worse, that they are getting bigger, nastier or more numerous, or, alternatively, that our rat fear is an irrational sociocultural construct. But no. It’s just about rats. Rats all over the world.
They are perceived in differing ways, but this is not considered that deeply. In Rajasthan, there are holy “kabbas” rats in the Karni Mata temple. In south-east Asia, people cook and eat them: “It tastes like chicken, but sweeter.” In New York, Spurlock interviews a tough-looking guy smoking a cigar in a basement who is a professional rat-catcher. The film keeps returning to him, for no real reason. And Spurlock keeps whacking in these silly, horror-type jump scares and soundtrack stabs as the rats shove their great whiskery snouts at the camera.
I’ve seen this film described as a “horror doc”, but is that actually a thing? Spurlock never seriously addresses the subject of whether the rat population is escalating with the human population, or if the disease risk is climbing as well. Perhaps he could have redeemed his film’s pointlessness with a discussion of The Stranglers’ album Rattus Norvegicus.
There’s a persistent melancholy tone to this study of New York film-maker Howard Brookner, made by his nephew Aaron, and focusing initially on the unique and attention-grabbing movie Brookner made in 1983 about William Burroughs with the help of his film-school contemporaries, sound recordist Jim Jarmusch and cinematographer Tom DiCillo, who are both interviewed here.
Aaron visits Burroughs’s somewhat claustrophobic New York apartment, nicknamed “the Bunker”, which appears to have been kept exactly as Burroughs had it, and where the Brookner archive still is. The movie then goes on to become a broader yet sadder film about Brookner, who emerged from Burroughs’s celebrity shadow and went on to direct more work, including Bloodhounds of Broadway, a period comedy starring Madonna and Matt Dillon. He had an elegant circle of friends in Paris and London. He died of Aids in 1989.
If he had lived, would Brookner have gone on to have a career like Jarmusch’s? Perhaps. Aaron Brookner’s film is a modestly conceived personal elegy to him, to the lost generation of gay men in New York, and to a certain period in New York itself.
This ultra-shiny remastering of Fleetwood Mac’s Mirage – clearly someone out there thought the band just didn’t sound cokey enough – gives us a chance to reappraise what has become an unfairly overlooked Mac album. After the wilful experimentation of Tusk and with the band branching out into solo projects and drug despair, Mirage probably seemed like a half-arsed statement at the time – a return to the band’s AOR pop songwriting days that didn’t quite match up to the likes of their self-titled 1975 album and Rumours. But with songs of the calibre of Gypsy, Book of Love and Love in Store – before you even get to the second side – and with the band’s dark undercurrent present and correct, Mirage still outshines most of the current crop of Mac imitators. Included in this box set is a weighty slab of vinyl, a 1982 live set from the Forum in Los Angeles – notable for Lindsey Buckingham cackling maniacally on Not That Funny – and an outtakes disc that includes previously unreleased versions of Gypsy and Oh Diane among other things. A suitably decadent reupholstering.
The Who’s first album is an oddity, because it doesn’t capture the breathless pace of the band’s development through 1965. It excluded I Can’t Explain and Anyway, Anyhow, Anywhere, their thrilling debut and its light-years-jump of a follow-up – as well as Substitute, which came out in 1966, even as My Generation was still being plundered for singles. This successor to 2002’s deluxe edition (which restores the original mix ditched from that version) offers plenty of developmental context – mono and stereo editions of the album, mono and stereo versions of bonus tracks, and a disc of Pete Townshend demos (though no Substitute).
Some of the most thrilling music of British rock’s golden age is in there, but you do have to plough through some less-thrilling stuff to find it – it feels as if there are a great many more than five versions of Daddy Rolling Stone here. But there is buried treasure: the demos of My Generation show, in one case, that every aspect of the song, right down to the speed-blocked stutter, had been worked out by Townshend; and in another that he could make even that most aggressive of songs sound like an outtake from the Beach Boys’s Smile. Incredible, too, is the demo of The Good’s Gone that turns it into a foreboding drone. It’s not one for the casual fan, but completists will be in heaven.
Carefully positioned to catch youngsters who’ve seen Moana but can’t get into Rogue One, this serviceable French-Canadian digimation cleaves to the post-Cowell definition of the word “journey”: its heroine is a redheaded dreamer (voiced by Elle Fanning) who flees her orphanage to blag a spot at the fin de siècle Paris Opera.
There’s some novelty in watching an animated character pursuing a creative career rather than, say, setting out on a quest with wisecracking animals, although the gendering appears altogether trad, post-Moana: while our gal pirouettes, her strutting male companion lands himself a gig in Gustave Eiffel’s workshop.
It’s attentively, attractively designed – with a real eye for the light hitting the buildings of a city under construction – but a shade more Black Swan in its DNA might have made the happy ending less inevitable and its pep less repetitive. The lyrics of its empowerment-pop soundtrack (“What’s wrong with being confident?”) swiftly become indistinguishable from the spoken dialogue.
Big Star’s cult masterpiece is the sound of disintegration, of things falling apart – and of Alex Chilton’s drug-fuelled lurch away from the powerpop of Big Star’s first two albums. Recorded in 1974 but unreleased until 1978, Third/Sister Lovers has since been reissued sporadically under a variety of titles and with different track listings – so there has never been a definitive version until now. Omnivore has painstakingly assembled every tape from the sessions at Memphis’s Ardent studios and sequenced them in chronological order. We hear how the album grew from Alex Chilton’s demos – pristine recordings of beautiful performances – via rough mixes by producer Jim Dickinson and engineer John Fry to the final test pressing, which was rejected by record companies. What Complete Third shows is that the increasingly troubled Chilton arrived in the studio with finished songs, not sketches – and the atmosphere of chaos and fractured menace was wholly intentional, worked up in the studio and abetted by Dickinson.
With nine more tracks than the original 1997 release, this remastered collection of Zeppelin’s recordings for the BBC captures their glorious ascent between 1969 and 1971, before superstardom and unfettered hedonism started to affect their musicianship and edge. With Robert Plant at his wailing, libidinous best and Jimmy Page wreaking all manner of noise and havoc with his guitar, the various live and session takes of material from their stellar first four albums document a steamrollering trajectory from ferocious hard rock to pastoral beauty and back. Completists will be fascinated by the three tracks from a lost 1969 session for Alexis Korner – including the otherwise unrecorded blues boogie, Sunshine Woman – and other curiosities include a romp through Eddie Cochran’s Something Else and a live version of Whole Lotta Love that turns into an extended medley of covers. But it’s most fascinating to hear the partly improvised, ever-changing evolution of classic tracks such as Communication Breakdown and Dazed and Confused as the band hurtle towards their dizzying peak.
A new Russian reality show where crimes are “allowed” will begin next year.
Game2: Winter will strand 30 contestants in the -40F (-40C) Siberian wilderness for nine months with the surviving winner receiving a $1.6m prize. It will stream 24/7 online.
“Each contestant gives consent that they could be maimed, even killed,” reads an advert. “2000 cameras, 900 hectares and 30 lives. Everything is allowed. Fighting, alcohol, murder, rape, smoking, anything.”
Contestants will each sign a waiver acknowledging that they might be raped or killed but the rules also state that police are free to arrest anyone who commits a crime on the show. “You must understand that the police will come and take you away,” the rules state. “We are on the territory of Russia, and obey the laws of the Russian Federation.”
Contestants will be placed in a landscape where bears and wolves are likely to be living. According to the Siberian Times, knives will be allowed yet guns are forbidden. The show is the brainchild of entrepreneur Yevgeny Pyatkovsky who says he “will refuse any claim of participants even if they were to be killed or raped”.
There won’t be a crew but rather 2,000 cameras dotted around the area. Each contestant will also have their own personal recording device. Willing participants need to be 18 and “mentally sane” to compete.
“The show promises to be international,” Pyatkovsky said. “Five countries have already expressed the desire to broadcast it for their audiences.”
He claims that 60 people have already applied, including one American.
The early recordings of this trio, formed in New York in 1993 by Italian twins Amedeo and Simone Pace and Japanese singer Kazu Makino, are as cosmopolitan as you’d expect. They sucked up the literate post-grunge angst of Pavement – and how decadent that irony and self-regard sounds in the Trump era! – but, a little like Stereolab or The Sea and Cake, gave it a real shimmy by hinting at bossa nova amid the garage rock. The band’s first two albums are collected here, along with 19 extra tracks (including a KCRW session of crystalline poise), and their jazz sensibility means their songs can be loose to the point of slackness – but at every impetuous right turn, there’s another kick-ass riff, tom-tom flurry or singsong melody to tighten them back up again. Makino would become a more controlled vocalist on their 4AD records, but she’s at her best here, letting her voice break into squeaks that cleverly hover between sexual delight and pure exasperation.
No more play. If 2016 endures in American history as a year of epochal disaster, then it will be fair to ask, in the grim years to come: how on earth could artists have joked around so much while the darkness gathered? But in a year whose most debated exhibition came from a quartet of dim New York fashion dropouts who laugh about fascism, one painter, 33 years old, born in Nigeria and working in Los Angeles, has been mapping the route to somewhere braver and more important. Njideka Akunyili Crosby’s crowded but deeply assured paintings absorb wholly different styles of image-making into exquisite, syncretic artworks, and though her scenes are hushed, her ambition is blazing. When too many young artists go small, she plays the long game – putting western art history in the service of a new, transcultural imagination with herself at its nucleus.
I Refuse to Be Invisible was the apt title for this poised exhibition, her first proper museum retrospective, and indeed almost all of Akunyili Crosby’s paintings are autobiographical. The artist appears with her family at kitchen tables or on overstuffed couches, in an easy, unruffled manner that recalls the work of her teacher at Yale, the great figurative painter Catherine Murphy. Painted passages jostle with photo transfers and collage: bodies are framed by wax-printed fabrics, and overlaid with pictures of Lagos soap stars or the fedora-wearing former president Goodluck Jonathan. Her husband, who is white and American, frequently appears alongside her, and several of the most beautiful paintings here depicted their bodies intertwined, dancing or making love. But it is so much more than romance; the affection and the domesticity are what gives her art such political force. Manet and the Harlem Renaissance, Velázquez and the comedies of Nollywood: they are all hers, to be chopped and screwed at will, and redeployed in the creation of images that don’t exist yet, and must.
The art world has wrestled mightily with matters of identity in the last few years, with varying degrees of subtlety. What Akunyili Crosby knows (and what she shares with Kerry James Marshall, whose fine retrospective continues at the Met Breuer) is that an engaged commitment to black or African visibility has to work through art history, not against it, and that the most powerful way to redress its injustices is to stake your claim, proudly, confidently, at its very center. I would call that commitment – to seriousness, to what her fellow African virtuoso JM Coetzee called “an imperative uniting the aesthetic and the ethical” – the most important for any artist, only more urgent in this alarming era of new apartheids. And I would call Akunyili Crosby the most important painter of her generation.
It’s become a reliable spectacle: on the first Monday in May the A-listers and aspirants swan up the steps of 1000 Fifth Avenue for their one visit each year to the world’s greatest museum, while put-upon social media interns broadcast their gowns worldwide. But the Met’s Costume Institute took a bolder tack this year with this muscular, centuries-spanning investigation of the intertwined workings of artisanal and mechanical methods of dressmaking. The old distinction between haute couture and ready-to-wear no longer seemed so clear when looking at Iris van Herpen’s 3D-printed frock and Karl Lagerfeld’s digitally embossed wedding gown, which made use of both the latest gizmos and techniques dating to before the French Revolution. Exquisitely designed by the architect Shohei Shigematsu, it was the single best fashion exhibition the Met has mounted in a decade – the very model of a hard-thinking blockbuster.
“My future is not a dream,” insist the young laborers in Cao Fei’s masterful Whose Utopia, an aching video portrait of the daily lives and fantasies of migrant workers in a lightbulb factory. Born in Guangzhou, the beating heart of the special economic zone, Cao has matured into a mordant critic of China’s headlong economic development and environmental squalor; gleaming apartment blocks are haunted by zombies, and even the most intimate relations are governed by the almighty renminbi. This was a great, gothic show, and a welcome return to form for the curator Klaus Biesenbach after last year’s Björk debacle.
When I visited Tirana this autumn, the Albanian capital felt like a place I knew from dreams; in fact, I had discovered it through Sala’s classic Dammi i colori, a nighttime portrait of the city’s brightly painted tower blocks. His museum-filling retrospective confirmed him as our shrewdest tour guide through the ruins of the last century’s utopias – as well as a brilliant student of music, from Schoenberg to The Clash.
In what must be the world’s most beautiful museum building, this long-awaited first retrospective of one of the funniest American painters looked winningly strange. Copley’s faux-naïve images of buxom babes and demented boys are a very American response to Surrealism, and the disquieting absurdity of his vision was compounded by seething colors and thick black outlines, somewhere between Gauguin and pulp fiction. (The show is now on view at the Fondazione Prada, in Milan.)
80 years old and cooler than I’ll ever be, Jonas last year presented a triumphant, ecologically imperative exhibition at the American pavilion of the Venice Biennale. This year, the pioneer of performance and video art reworked that exhibition into a poignant stage work, in collaboration with the jazz pianist Jason Moran and a cast of adorable children. Against Moran’s sinuous improvisations, Jonas drew prehistoric fish, donned hand-painted paper masks, and detailed the degradation of local landscapes – and her fearsome ecological vision became all the more powerful through its tender delivery.
The young, dauntless South African artist aced his first American museum show, an allusive, melancholy infilling of the erasures of history. Chalk drawings, wall carvings, and beautifully delicate works on paper intercede in time through sly allusions to overshadowed artists and writers, such as Sol Plaatje, the ANC organizer who translated Shakespeare into Tswana. Already freighted with historical significance, his sculptures made of discarded school desks took on new, fortuitous meaning amid the ongoing upheaval at South Africa’s universities.
No major European postwar artist has had as much influence, and yet as little public recognition, as the Belgian trickster who turned from poetry to fine art in the early 1960s. This difficult but important show united Broodthaers’s plaster-shellacked books, assemblages of mussels and eggshells, and above all his Musée d’art moderne, département des aigles, a fictional “museum” that revealed how real ones do their dirty work. (The show is currently on view at the Museo Reina Sofía, in Madrid.)
In Sydney in 2014, the British artist presented her first theater piece, a monologue for the actor Stephen Dillane on death, families, and the nature of performance; in New York two years later, she transformed it into Event for a Stage, a moving and dizzyingly intricate 50-minute film. (Dean is a celluloid holdout, and it was screened in an ad-hoc movie theater with a real live projectionist.) As Dillane shuttles from autobiographical reflection to passages from The Tempest, his hairstyle suddenly changes or a wig appears from nowhere; Event for a Stage turns out to be a montage of multiple events, and the formal marriage of theater and film enfolds a profounder union of actor and artist.
A full-dress retrospective for the Hungarian artist revealed the Bauhaus professor as a jack-of-all-trades, as comfortable designing Tube posters as typefaces. At the Guggenheim, Moholy-Nagy’s paintings were given the most importance, but it looks even better now in Chicago, where the installation emphasizes his radical film and photography. (The show will complete its tour at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art in 2017.)
Fox’s mega-hyped midseason drama, Star, opens with the titular aspiring singer – an orphan who’s been bounced around foster homes most of her life – FaceTiming on a cracked iPhone. An iPhone 5, even. It’s a small touch, but a clear signifier that Lee Daniels’ Empire follow-up won’t be trafficking in the same lavishness that defines that show.
Minus the expensive clothes, champagne and casually thrown shade, Empire is, at its core, a TV series about a nouveau riche black family who will do anything and everything to protect their fortune. The fear of one day having to go back to the ghetto (or, worse, back to prison) motivates the morally questionable behavior of Cookie and Lucious Lyon. The writing staff does its best to engender audience sympathy for the power-hungry, fabulously wealthy Lyon dynasty (their success varies from character to character, season to season) but it’s hard to sustain much of a dramatic thrust when your protagonists are both already on top of their profession and have never met an antagonist who can best them for more than a three-episode arc.
Star feels like a reaction to the narrative rut that Empire finds itself in. The three leads – Star (Jude Demorest), her half-sister Simone (Brittany O’Grady) and sad little rich girl Alexandra (Ryan Destiny, who is blessed with a name that sounds like a character from an anime) – don’t have everything they want. Really, they just don’t have anything. They arrive in Atlanta hoping to become a successful pop act without any actual knowledge of how to go about it. Instead, they find that everyone around them seems to think they understand the way to stardom – their Bible-thumping godmother (Queen Latifah) and her daughter, and a sleazy manager played by Benjamin Bratt.
The Empire formula is still there – climactic musical numbers, shocking cliffhangers, awkwardly shot scenes of titillation, splashes of grim violence, a peculiar relationship between the unsavory world of show business and down-home Christian values – but in service of a classic underdog story. Star and friends shampoo hair in exchange for a free place to stay. Their first performance is in front of a somnambulistic bar crowd. Their manager may or may not be totally full of it. We don’t even see our first mansion for two-thirds of the show’s runtime. It’s all faded glory and untapped potential, as though one of Cookie’s magnificent leopard-print outfits got dragged by a city bus for a few miles.
Underneath all the pluck is a layer of creeping dread too. Star is naive, but not in a cute, Will Ferrell-in-Elf sort of way. Her physicality and willingness to survive at all costs reminds me more of Nomi Malone, the hero of Paul Verhoeven’s camp classic Showgirls. Nomi comes from nothing, uses her wit and her sexuality to thrive, dances her way to the good life, then finds herself corrupted and right back where she started. If we can take it seriously for a moment, Showgirls was both an indictment of ambition and also an ode to the struggle of women to navigate a male-dominated industry. The film’s elliptical ending promises that Nomi hasn’t been totally discouraged by the last 131 minutes of psychological torture, peer pressure and freaky pool sex with Kyle MacLachlan.
Demorest’s performance as Star exudes the same sort of extreme self-belief and determination that some might mistake for stupidity. It’s certainly more believable than whatever Elizabeth Berkley was going for in Showgirls. If this show is also a meditation on the corrosive power of fame, then it might end up going to places far darker than Empire. Just in the pilot, Star presents itself as a grittier program. Substance abuse, PTSD, hate crimes and sexual assault all get brought up with more gravity than they would be on the gilded sets of Empire. The stakes here really matter and when the final cliffhanger dropped, I felt more genuine interest in what happens next than I have in at least two seasons of Empire. Star will inevitably be compared to its network sibling, thanks to its structural similarities, parallel workplace settings and the shared presence of Lee Daniels. I just spent a few hundred words doing just that. It’s natural, but hopefully by the end of Star’s first season we won’t even be thinking of Empire. Whether it’s a classic rags-to-riches fable or a cautionary tale, Star is already more alive than Empire has been in years.
We had readers recommend songs about dreams back in 2006 but, in the words of this week’s guru, who will select the new, darker list, they were “all a bit nicey-nicey”.
You have until 11pm on Monday 19 December to post your nomination and make your justification. RR contributor George Boyland (who posts as sonofwebcore in the comments) will select from your recommendations and produce the playlist, to be published on 22 December.
Here is a list of all songs previously picked and therefore ineligible for the series.
If you want to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions – and potentially blog about the process/selection for the Guardian – please email matthew.holmes@theguardian.com with the subject line “RR guru”, or make yourself known in the comments.
Here’s a reminder of the guidelines for RR:
Cándido Fabré is one of Cuba’s great soneros, a prolific singer-songwriter famed for his distinctive hoarse voice and ability to improvise lyrics. He first came to notice in the early 80s, and soon became a favourite with salsa dancers, with his songs covered by many leading Cuban musicians. The new album shows that he’s still a great writer, mixing slinky son rhythms with bachata and other styles in an impressively varied set. There are songs praising Cuba and its food and music, and elegant tributes to his late mother or musicians he admired, along with the Latin pop of Hello Baby, a witty conversation between a father in Cuba and daughter in Miami, that appears twice. The only problem is with Fabré’s voice. At 59, the singer known for his compelling style seems to be losing his power, and he doesn’t even handle the lead vocals on a couple of tracks.
Xichú is a little town in the mountains of Guanajuato state, Mexico, and the location for the extraordinary all-night New Year topada, in which rival teams of poets and their musicians battle for hours, cheered on by thousands of spectators before a winner is declared. The style is known as huapango arribeño and the folk poet and singer Guillermo Velázquez is a specialist. He describes the event in The Poets’ Topada, a remarkable 20-minute piece in which he recites and sings, backed by his own huapanguera large-bodied guitar, the small jarana guitar and violins – and with two other poet/singers acting out the role of contestants. Elsewhere, he uses spoken word and song to discuss highland life or migration to the United States, and provides backing for Chabe Flores with her gutsy songs about women’s empowerment. An intriguing, energetic set – though more detailed translations would have been useful.
After transforming the sound palette of a jazz orchestra for more than two decades, Duke Ellington came close to being sidelined in the early 1950s, with the big bands in economic and artistic retreat and rock’n’roll imminent. But his comeback was spectacular, and this Storyville collection of music from the US and Europe from the 50s to the 70s begins with a disorderly but sparky 1952 broadcast from New York’s Birdland, including classics such as Take the A Train and The Mooche, and winds up with some 1971 takes on the intriguing African/Latin proto-world-music Ellington was investigating in his last years. Legendary Ellington saxophonists Johnny Hodges and Harry Carney shine on an exhilarating blend of early and later material caught in Munich in 1958; a previously unreleased 1963 Stockholm gig features Ellington’s “gut-bucket bolero” Afro-Bossa, and the 1967 lineup – one of the best of the later Ellington outfits – is well represented on the thematically diverse studio set The Jaywalker. It’s no substitute for milestone postwar albums such as Ellington at Newport 1956 or the 1970 New Orleans Suite, but a boxful of fascinating Ellingtonia nonetheless, with a DVD of the 1962 band in action, and an authoritative booklet.
What is it? A Canadian sitcom with talent to die for.
Why you’ll love it: Before his retirement last year, David Letterman welcomed Chris Elliott to his talkshow. Elliott was a feature player in Letterman’s glory years; a man who, thanks to his Letterman appearances and his absurdist sitcom Get A Life, went some way to defining the pervading humour of the 1990s. Reminiscing about their beginnings and careers, Elliott said to Letterman: “Look at you. You’re a television icon, adored by billions. And I’m on the Pop network with a show called Schitt’s Creek.” With a defeated shrug, he added: “So we both achieved our dreams.”
Clearly, your expectations for Schitt’s Creek won’t be high. It is a series you have never heard of, it relies on a miserable vortex of crude wordplay for its title and, truth be told, you have probably watched plenty of funnier shows this year. But it does offer capital-P performances. Eugene Levy (who created the show with his co-star son, Dan) plays a suddenly poor millionaire forced to live in an Ontario backwater he once bought as a joke. There, he frequently runs up against Elliott, playing the town’s mayor with all the mannerisms of a picked scab.
The secret weapon, though, is Catherine O’Hara, who plays Levy’s wife. With a dead-eyed commitment not seen since her turn in Christopher Guest’s For Your Consideration, O’Hara gives the role everything she has got. She is a true – and truly hilarious – monster, smashing through every scene in a whirlwind of wigs, yelps and boggle-eyed reaction shots. Entire scenes are carried on the back of her effort alone; in many, you can practically hear her grunt.
In its home country (where it recently won nine Canadian screen awards), Schitt’s Creek is about to start its third series. British viewers, meanwhile, have only the first run to go on. Happily, these episodes feel complete in and of themselves. The premise – a family of gormless millionaires stripped of everything they own and flung out into the middle of nowhere – is dealt with in a matter of minutes and, from that point, it is a long, hard scrabble for them to escape Schitt’s Creek.
Every episode reveals a little more about the familial hierarchy, which becomes more and more realistically complex as the series goes on. This means that Eugene Levy, famously a world-champion straight man, gives himself two bites of the apple. Around his family, he plays the baffled patriarch, a figure of earned wealth trying to talk sense to figures of inherited wealth. But, out in the real world, he is as cluelessly confounded as anyone else. And, to anyone who knows him purely as the dad from the American Pie movies, he is a revelation. Even though this is ultimately a series about desperation, he routinely cuts a figure that borders on suave.
The first series ends on a note of begrudging acceptance – one that follows a set piece that will be familiar to fans of I’m Alan Partridge. Hopefully, Netflix will provide more episodes soon. A cast like this deserves to be watched.
Where: Netflix.
Length: Thirteen 20-minute episodes.
Standout episode: Episode three, when reality sets in for O’Hara and she starts to have a meltdown.
If you liked Schitt’s Creek, watch: Arrested Development (Netflix), Mascots (Netflix), Red Oaks (Amazon).
Swipe-happy dating app Tinder makes its first flirtation with podcasting in DTR: Define the Relationship (iTunes, Gimlet). This American Life’s Jane Marie is the quick-witted and detail-obsessed host or, as she puts it: “your guide through this wild new world of dating, love and sex in cyberspace”.
The trailer features someone whose Tinder profile picture was taken at her father’s funeral, and episode one spends 21 minutes deconstructing what the word “Hey” means. Yes, “Hey.” After listening to this, you’ll think twice before using the seemingly innocuous opening gambit. A hundred million messages on Tinder begin with “Hey” each month. Is it lazy messaging or simply the evolution of the old problem of trying to say hello to someone you fancy in a bar without using a cheesy chat-up line?
Some people think it’s the most “organic” way to make contact, whereas certain “hey shamers” believe it means the other person hasn’t read their profile. It could be the amuse-bouche of internet dating, but the right swipe has already done that job. So does that make it junk mail?
If this sounds like a navel-gazing podcast that takes over-analysing to an alarming level, it is not. DTR is like a great first-date conversation with sparkle, a lot of debate and the realisation that everyone wants the same thing: love (or at least the chance of meeting someone with whom they can have sex).
Towards the end, the tide turns and “hey” becomes acceptable, especially when you consider the alternatives. A gif of a mammal that says: “Whale, hello there”? Actually, that’s not bad, according to Tyler Menzel, an internet dater and editorial director of online gif database Giphy. Menzel reveals that the most searched-for gif on Tinder is the old Joey from Friends, “How you doing?” Maybe it’s better to stick to the humble hey.
“It might be lazy, but it’s also efficient,” says Marie. “It’s a neutral place to start, a blank slate. You can read whatever the hell you want into a hey, and perhaps that’s part of its beauty.” DTR reads a hell of a lot into everything, but that’s part of its beauty. Next up: dick pics. What a time to be alive and trying to get a date.
If you like this, try … On the Shelf.
In December 2011, the prolific British composer and saxophonist Duncan Lamont (he celebrated his 85th last June) assembled a generation-bridging UK orchestra, that included the late Kenny Wheeler on inimitably plaintive flugelhorn, to revisit his scores for the children’s TV series Mr Benn 40 years before. Out now on CD, some of it sounds composed for cartoon action, but Lamont’s springily witty writing gives it independent life, and fine soloists including trumpeter Martin Shaw, saxist Jamie Talbot and flautist Andy Panayi often give it jam session vivacity. Mr Benn sounds like a jaunty old theme tune, but quickly becomes a vehicle for four soloists. The piping, sprightly As If By Magic reveals Lamont’s Scottish roots. Shaw is at his most elegantly lyrical on The Dragon’s Tale, while Coming Home is a Count Basie-like swing vehicle for the trombonists, and Wheeler softly twists and weaves though Lamont’s subtle ballad orchestration on The Sea Monster. A collector’s piece for UK big-band fans, maybe, but Lamont’s vibrant scores lift it way above the herd.
Arts organisations in Birmingham have been hit with further council spending cuts that mean the city’s theatre and orchestra will get less local authority funding than any of their regional equivalents.
On Thursday, Birmingham Rep, the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra (CBSO), Birmingham Royal Ballet and the Midlands Arts Centre were among organisations told they would receive heavy cuts to funding.
The cuts are not out of the blue and organisations had been braced for the news. But it is the scale and, they said, lack of time to implement them that is striking.
The Rep found out its city council funding is to decrease by a proposed 62% in the next financial year, beginning on 1 April. That is a reduction of £325,000, down to £200,000, for what is one of the UK’s biggest regional producing theatres.
In a statement the theatre said the new figure was “an investment lower than that received by any other comparable theatre in the UK”. When added to previous cuts, the theatre is being asked to operate with £900,000 less per year than it did in 2010.
The theatre said it had grown its earned income by 54% since 2010. The Rep’s executive director, Stuart Rogers, said: “The Rep has worked hard to absorb the ongoing cuts with great success. However, there is a limit to what we can do. A cut of this magnitude means that Birmingham city council is now giving the Rep less than we have to spend on the basic overheads and upkeep of the theatre – a building that is owned by the city council.”
At the CBSO, the council is proposing a cut of 25%, which equates to £228,000. In a statement the orchestra said: “Coming on top of the £1.47m real-terms public funding cuts which the orchestra has already absorbed since 2010, it means the CBSO’s public funding will drop below that currently received by any other regional symphony orchestra in the country, with its Birmingham city council grant falling to levels last seen in the 1980s.”
The CBSO chair, Bridget Blow, said the orchestra was “concerned and disappointed” that the council was cutting arts and culture funding “so much faster than local authorities in other major cities”.
She added: “There is global excitement about the CBSO’s future with one of the world’s most exciting young conductors, Mirga Gražinytė-Tyla, at the helm – but this latest cut will require us to work harder than ever to maintain the world-class concerts, and learning and engagement activities which the people of Birmingham have come to expect.”
The cuts go wider than the city’s main theatre and orchestra, with Birmingham council’s cabinet this week understood to have agreed an overall 34% cut in its culture budget.
Arts organisations in the city have been working together in the past year to establish Culture Central, a new development organisation and collective voice for culture in Birmingham. It published a culture investment inquiry in the summer that put forward new ideas around collaboration, new business models and new approaches to public investment.
Its director, Gary Topp, said they had hoped for more time. The new cuts were “uneven” and organisations were being given the news when they only had three months to implement them. “We’ve been calling for a more informed, a more collegiate, and a more innovative dialogue with the city council,” he said.
“The solution to this is a really powerful relationship between the sector and the city council which does not look like an old fashioned grant regime. Everyone knew the cuts were coming. It is the way they have been implemented and the lack of a really strong collaborative dialogue to mitigate them that is the challenge and the opportunity.”
Birmingham city council is having to make huge cuts. In an interview with the Guardian this week, its chief executive, Mark Rogers, warned of catastrophic consequences as cuts for services to vulnerable people were cut.
Ian Ward, deputy leader of Birmingham city council, said difficult decisions were having to be taken. “Like most local authorities, Birmingham faces unprecedented cuts from central government and as a result we must make savings of £180m over the next few years – on top of around £590m cuts we have had to make since 2010,” he said.
“We value the important role the arts and cultural sector play in the city, and while we have had to reduce our funding further, we are still investing more than £3.2m into Birmingham’s cultural offer, including open-access schemes which support smaller cultural organisations.”
Local authority cuts to the arts is one of the most urgent issues in the sector. The Birmingham cuts come in the same week that a group of MPs released a report saying the proportion of Arts Council England money spent in London, as opposed to the regions, was still too high.
Since the election, the Kominas have been getting the same curious request. The east coast punk band keeps being asked, by film-makers and documentarians, for a Donald Trump protest song. “People just assume we have an anti-Trump song already recorded,” says Basim Usmani, the group’s bassist.
In the weeks preceding and following the election, musicians, fans and critics have discussed and debated the idea that Trump’s impending presidency could inspire a new movement of politically charged protest music. So it’s no surprise that the Kominas, a South Asian American band whose discography includes provocative statements like Sharia Law in the USA, would be called upon for a musical reaction to the president-elect.
“It’s been hard to deal with,” says Usmani, whose band recently recorded a new batch of material focusing instead on highlighting angst and mental health issues from the perspectives of people of color. “It’s radical for us to center ourselves in our own music, as opposed to Trump. We’d like to turn him into background noise.”
The Kominas are just one band that’s begun thinking about how to use rock music, viewed by many as a dated genre long past its cultural relevancy, to react to and channel the collective sense of unrest, fear and anger felt by tens of millions of Americans in the wake of last month’s election.
Less than two weeks after election night, Green Day began their performance at the 2016 American Music Awards by covering a snippet of Born to Die by 80s punk outfit Millions of Dead Cops. Green Day’s performance recalled the underground hardcore punk movement – led by the likes of Black Flag, MDC and Minor Threat – that flourished during the height of Reagan’s presidency in the 80s.
“No Trump, no KKK, no fascist USA,” Billie Joe Armstrong sang, slightly tweaking MDC’s “No war, no KKK,” refrain from 1982’s Born to Die. For his performance, Armstrong drew from MDC’s modified chorus that had long been chanted at protests nationwide. “That happened real organically, people had started chanting ‘no Trump, no KKK’ four or five months ago,” says Dave Dictor, lead singer of MDC. “We take up lots of food and oxygen and resources as musicians and as Americans, so the least we can do is give a shit about something and try to give something back.”
The similarities between Reagan and Trump have left some wondering if the next few years of underground rock music may bear any resemblance to the wave of independent-spirited, politically conscious rock that arose during the Reagan years.
“There were big time issues in those days, and there certainly are these days, so I see the parallel,” says Mike Watt, founding member of the 80s underground pioneers the Minutemen. Still, Watt fundamentally believes that “it should always be time”, that there should always be resistance music fighting power structures. He also expresses serious reservations about lionizing the 80s. “Young bands come up to me a lot and say, ‘you guys did it all, you were from a special time’ which makes me really sad. I try to convince them that every time is a special time.”
For young bands, the notion that 2016’s election might usher in a musical renaissance is at best misguided and at worst offensive to some. “People who’ve had the privilege to think that this is going to ignite an artistic revolution that hasn’t always been there just speaks to the ability for people to be blind,” says Victoria Ruiz, lead singer of the Providence-based Downtown Boys. “The election pulled the Band-Aid off for the people who could afford the Band-Aid to begin with, and now we see that the blood is flowing.”
“It’s a ridiculous idea, especially for the many bands, including ours, who have been making explicit political statements for so long,” adds guitarist Joey DeFrancesco. Karna Ray, drummer for the Kominas, puts it even more bluntly. “There’s something implicitly greedy in expecting suffering to reach a high enough watermark to force vital music in response,” he says. “It seems to be a common sentiment among white men punks, but that just shows they have no skin in the game. They’ll never be deported. They’ll never have their bodies policed or violated by the government, so they can sit back at a distance and vibe on the music.”
One of the most visible collective forms of directly political music during the election was 30 Days, 30 Songs, a collection of “songs written and recorded for a Trump-Free America” organized by novelist Dave Eggers. The project was heavily centered around rock music, a genre Corin Tucker of Sleater-Kinney, who contributed a song, believes has long been replaced as the standard-bearer of social consciousness.
“We’re already in an incredible time in the United States for protest music, but it’s all happening in a lot of hip-hop and R&B tied to the Black Lives Matter movement,” she says. But the idea that national unrest can lead to increased artistic momentum has been tough to disregard. “I do think that when times are bad externally, it builds up more energy,” says fellow 30 Days, 30 Songs contributor Roger Miller, lead singer of pioneering 80s post-punk band Mission of Burma.
For Miller, the big question is whether or not the internet has the ability to harness collective energy into widespread artistic resistance. “I don’t see any evidence of any ball of energy getting ready to explode, because with the internet, that energy’s always getting poked and little bits of it get released.”
That sentiment is echoed by Mike Watt, who views technology as the crucial difference between 80s underground culture and today. “This might sound corny, but I think people got information from songs back then. That’s how we spoke to each other about issues.”
Veterans from the 80s and 90s underground scenes like Miller, Dictor, Tucker and Watt insist that old-fashioned forms of involvement, like playing benefit shows and aligning with grassroots organizations, are still some of the most basic and meaningful things young bands can do. “Even if your songs are all about boys and girls, playing a fundraiser for a cause you believe in can still be a very useful political tool,” says Miller.
An overwhelming consensus is that the way in which protest music gets defined and discussed needs to become more flexible, more contradictory, less literal. “I’m most interested in hearing from people who have a story to tell, because that’s the best way to get others to change their minds and listen,” says Tucker. “Stories are always the most effective protest music.”
As for the type of plainly confrontational anti-Trump statement, a type of protest most clearly channeled this year by rapper YG’s Fuck Donald Trump, new bands may already be forming to write those songs in middle schools across the country. “We feel like what kids need to hear right now is not an anti-Trump song, because an anti-Trump song is promising, but it’s not the truth,” says Usmani. “That being said, I will go on record and say that if four young brown kids want to start a hardcore, Reagan-era punk band that’s anti-Trump, that could be awesome. That would be epic.”
Walthamstow’s E17 music collective houses some of the UK’s most creative jazz players, and the Solstice sextet – which includes imaginative multilingual vocalist Brigitte Beraha and the copiously inventive Tori Freestone on saxes – confirm just that on this set of lyrically fresh originals, plus one cover in bassist Dave Manington’s arrangement of Björk’s The Anchor Song. On Brazilian-influenced pieces, the Jobim-devoted Beraha’s vaporous grace often suggests Flora Purim and Norma Winstone – and the free spirit of Hermeto Pascoal flits through this music, too. Winstone’s role in the free-conversational vocal, piano and horn interplay of the long-gone Azimuth group is sometimes glimpsed, notably as Beraha’s voice, John Turville’s piano and Freestone’s tenor mingle on the wistful Mourning Porridge. Beraha is delicate and then improvisationally free on The Anchor Song, the dreamy Avocado Deficit (food themes are recurrent, the band being keen cooks) finds Freestone at her smokiest and then wildest, and the John Tayloresque Turville and edgily rockish guitarist Jez Franks reveal the band’s fiercer qualities on drummer George Hart’s circuitous title track.
Beneath all the blood and the smoke in Saleem Haddad’s debut novel Guapa lies an overwhelming shame. But it’s not quite shame as we understand it in English: the little Arabic word eib (عيب), which appears frequently in the book, encapsulates a cultural concept so particular that it takes a 10-minute discussion to explain.
Haddad is game, though: “Eib in Arab societies is like a social code,” he says. “It binds communities and creates boundaries and creates trust. But at the same time, it can be very constricting.” It is not like the widely used haram, a religious term for something forbidden in Islam. “Islamic law says this is forbidden, while this is allowed. Shame, however, is malleable. It is open to subversion. I wanted to explore how people could play with that.”
Guapa, described in the Guardian as “immensely readable … fluent, passionate and emotionally honest”, follows Rasa, a young gay man living in an unnamed Arab country, over a single day in the recent aftermath of a failed political uprising.
Rasa’s grandmother Teta has just discovered him in bed with his boyfriend Taymour, who tries to “play by the rules, one foot in and one foot out”. The book begins the morning after this shaming encounter: in the tense aftermath, Rasa, fretting about possible repercussions while dealing with eib, attempts to distract himself at work as a translator for western journalists. Moments of his past play out as he makes his way around the city on a day that he knows will end with Taymour’s wedding, to a mutual and unsuspecting female friend.
As a gay Arab man, Haddad is fascinated by shame, but was also once plagued with it: growing up he felt ashamed for not filling the ideal male role. Now 33, living in London with his partner and his dog, he grew up burdened with the knowledge that he would not have children or continue the family lineage, in a society where stereotypes about the effeminacy of homosexual men abound. As Rasa observes in the novel, gay Arab men live a codified existence, where homosexuality is seen only in a slight lightness of the wrists, a fearful self-awareness in the eyes – and not in elaborate pride parades or overt flamboyance.
Haddad, in his own words, is a piece of human history. His Palestinian grandmother was born in Nazareth, then moved to Haifa and eventually Beirut after the Palestinians were expelled, where his father was born. During the Lebanese civil war, his father went to Baghdad, where he met Haddad’s Iraqi-German mother. During the Iran-Iraq war, the Haddads moved to Kuwait, where Saleem was born. During the Gulf war, when he was a child, they moved to Cyprus.
“When you are from so many different backgrounds, you often feel like you don’t belong anywhere. But I am part of a larger story,” he says. On his first day of school in Jordan, a child asked him whether he was Christian or Muslim (“Christian”), Palestinian or Jordanian (“Palestinian”). He was categorised accordingly and “discovered how I was understood in a wider context”.
This would not be the last time he was pigeonholed. At 18, he enrolled for university in Canada weeks before the 9/11 attacks: just as he finally had the freedom to explore his sexuality, he says, he was forced back into the closet, as he dealt with his peers scrutinising his Arabness. At a similar moment in Guapa, Rasa calls himself “the by-product of an oppressive culture, an ambassador of a people at war with civilisation”.
As “a good, middle-class Arab boy”, Haddad studied economics. He had wanted to do drama because he felt he would be a good actor. (“Being in the closet helps,” he jokes, with in a brief burst of campness.) Economics was a compromise for not studying medicine, but Haddad discovered an interest in poverty and development and began working for NGOs, particularly Médecins Sans Frontières‎, in Sri Lanka, Egypt, Yemen, Libya and Iraq.
While working for MSF, he wrote essays and articles, but never fiction. It wasn’t until 2010, when he was burned out by hard missions in Yemen and Iraq, that he returned the UK and began writing. “I needed a break. I needed to process everything,” he says. “When the revolutions happened, I felt a very strong urge to write a story like this, partly out of this sense that I was still struggling to find a space for my voice because I was so mixed up. So I put everything into this novel and it was a relief.”
His work made him “very political, very angry, very dark”. But then he tells a sweet anecdote about the moment that changed: once, when he returned to London after a stint in Iraq, his boyfriend dragged him to Borough market to sample “the best cupcake in the world”. Tired and sceptical, Haddad went along. “Suddenly, I knew this was him telling me to slow down and enjoy things. I knew I had to look at the world in a different way. I needed to channel the anger into understanding how people tick. I think if he hadn’t taught me to just be OK with enjoying things, even things as little as a cupcake, I wouldn’t have been able to write this book, a book about someone processing emotion.”
He was in London when the Arab spring began in 2011 and started writing Guapa that year while working full-time for an NGO. He would wake up at 6am to fit three hours of writing in every day before he went to the office, “whether it was London, Yemen or Libya”. By mid 2014, he had found an agent and by the end of that year he had a book deal.
But something wasn’t right about the manuscript and a week before submitting it to the publisher, he ripped it apart. “My boyfriend thought I was crazy – I turned our tiny London bedroom into a huge mind map of Post-it notes. It was some Beautiful Mind stuff. But it clicked for me. I knew where everything had to be.”
He came out 10 years ago via email to his parents, who immediately flew him to Abu Dhabi for a five-day interrogation so traumatic that Haddad says he doesn’t remember a lot of it. “I remember sitting in silence for hours as they yelled and cried. My mother printed out the Wikipedia page of homosexuality and they were going through it, trying to understand it. But there was nothing I could do.”
His parents have since read Guapa and are coming to terms with their son’s sexuality, he says. After a recent book launch in Lebanon, he even managed to wheedle his dad into joining him at a gay bar to celebrate. “He was like, ‘Oh it is not my place, it’s not for me.’ I had to tell him, ‘You are not going to get Aids just from going.’ And he came!” he says, still clearly delighted by the memory. “He sat in the bar and it was so important for him to see it was just a bar. No leather daddies tried to pull him into a corner. This whole process has been very positive.”
He struggles to pin down how much of Guapa is autobiographical: “Emotionally, it is very autobiographical. Plot-wise, less so.” Many parts of it, aside from the clear parallels with Haddad’s own story, feel true: the unnamed location could be any one of a number of Middle Eastern cities in the aftermath of a failed uprising. I read it assuming it was Egypt; Haddad, pleased, says:“Syrian people tell me it is Aleppo, Lebanese people say they saw this bit of graffiti in their neighbourhood, Jordanian people say the divisions between the east and west parts of the city are just like Amman. That is exactly what I wanted.”
Why? He didn’t want to expose any particular queer community to new scrutiny. “Whether it is house parties in Saudi Arabia, clubs in Beirut or coffee houses in the Gulf or north Africa, the thing I felt was most common was the idea of these underground spaces where the LGBT community can congregate.” So he created the smoky bar Guapa, with its basement drag show, from an amalgamation of various places across the Middle East.
Guapa has had an enthusiastic reception from readers as far apart as Italy, Brazil and India, and there are tentative plans to translate it into Arabic.He finds it alarming to suddenly have LGBT readers emailing him, asking for advice. (“It is quite hard because they relate to the book so much and I need to remind them, the book is the book and I am not Rasa!”)
When he first mooted the novel, “a few people said, ‘Listen, international fiction doesn’t really sell and gay fiction doesn’t really sell. And you’re combining the two.’ I kept telling them that there would be readers out there. I knew people who wanted this story.”
And he has been proved right. “It has been so overwhelming because all of this stuff I thought was just my own shit actually was stuff so many people are experiencing, all over the world.”
• Guapa is published by Europa Editions, priced £10.99. It is available from the Guardian bookshop for £9.01.
On one level it is a journey through magical caves, beaches and forests inhabited by lovable, strange creatures that resemble tiny hippos. On another it is an existential journey touching on some of the biggest subjects including gender, sexuality, tolerance and freedom.
The first major UK exhibition dedicated to the Moomins and the life of their Finnish creator, Tove Jansson, will open to the public on Friday.
Staged in London’s Royal Festival Hall, Adventures in Moominland is an immersive and interactive exhibition that takes visitors on a journey through the stories, with recreated scenes from the books, and exhibits of more than 40 original drawings and other archive materials.
Curators say children will love it, but so will adults, as scenes often have more to them.
“She weaves real-life drama into her stories, you get things between the lines,” said Jansson’s niece Sophia Jansson. “The books are so rewarding because it is not just what you see, it is all that’s in between as well. She had a fantastic skill to express things that seem current and touching to everyone.”
A case in point are the inseparable characters Thingumy and Bob who speak in their own strange language and carry a secret suitcase which contains a shiny ruby. For Thingumy and Bob, read Jansson and Vivicka Bandler, with whom the author had a brief and passionate affair.
Homosexuality was illegal in Finland at the time, meaning their affair had to be conducted in secrecy, their love hidden like the ruby in the suitcase.
The Moomins were written in the aftermath of the second world war, offering a tolerant, happy world and a refuge from the harshness of reality.
It is a world that is still needed, said Sophia Jansson. “You look at what is happening and the polarisation of wealth and opinion ... it is really important to have these books.
“You get solace from the fact she paints a world that is different and emphasises the values of treating everyone with respect, including nature. Tove is still so current which is the secret behind the Moomins being still so appealing.”
Visitors will be taken on one-hour guided tours through the world of the Moomins with an audio narrative written by the children’s author Laura Dockrill and voiced by broadcaster Sandi Toksvig.
The Moomins have many fans, including the actor Samuel West, who said he had felt at home in Jansson’s Moominvalley since he was seven.
“The sensuous melancholy, the odd cast and the wisdom of the worldview fascinates me,” he said. “This new exhibition captures both the textures and the emotions of Moominland, and the way ordinary things are transformed into magical strangeness by Jansson’s joyful sideways look.”
The exhibition is part of the Southbank Centre’s year-long exploration of Nordic arts and culture throughout 2017, which will feature everything from visual art to contemporary music to Lego.
• Adventures in Moominland, 16 December - 23 April at the Royal Festival Hall
Presently, Cook and Clara went away to get dressed for their own Christmas party downstairs; and then Nana took Posy to bed. After that, although they had supper of cold turkey and meringues, the day was terribly finished...
Ballet Shoes, Noel Streatfeild
---
Where I grew up, in Brisbane, Christmas happens in summer. Santa is depicted in board shorts and flip-flops, we sighed wistfully at any mention of snow in carols, and I generally spent at least a portion of the days itself in the pool. More often than not, we feast on prawns and salad, rather than turkey and roast potatoes. But, despite the heat, we always have a Christmas pudding, dotted with silver sixpence pieces my great-grandmother passed down, with custard and brandy butter. I love it, even while sweating profusely. It’s tradition.
In the days surrounding Christmas, at family lunches and dinners with friends, you’re much more likely to find pavlova on our table. In fact, there’s also likely to be one on the table on Christmas Day, for those who don’t fancy a hot pudding. A huge white mound of meringue and cream, covered with kiwi and passionfruit, is about as Christmassy a sight as I can imagine, traditional in its own, Australian way.
The Christmas that Pauline, Petrova and Posy celebrate in Ballet Shoes comes at the end of a busy year - one full of change. They have new classes, new teachers and a gruelling schedule. But they note that, although the day is perhaps more welcome than in preceding years, it isn’t all that different. I find comfort and reassurance in this; those Christmas traditions we carry out every year. So much of it is the same each time - the canapés from Nigella’s Christmas, the same decorations that are placed carefully back on the tree, the films that are watched over and over.
There are, of course, as many traditions as there are families and individuals who celebrate Christmas. In Ballet Shoes, the Fossil girls enjoy a traditional roast dinner, a game of hide-and-seek, and then cold turkey and meringues for supper. I’ll be eating blinis in my pyjamas, watching It’s a Wonderful Life and Skyping with my family in Australia. I’ll also be cooking lunch for the Cotswolds-based family who take me in at Christmas, including an individual pavlova for my Cotswolds brother Tom, who hates “hidden raisins” in desserts. It’s just like every other year - except for the people whose absence will be felt. This Christmas, I’ll be missing my Cotswolds sister Anna, who is working in Brazil, our cousin Mia, in Sweden with her family, and my sister Lucy, who is celebrating with her husband in Seattle. And so I’m going to re-read Ballet Shoes. So far from much of my family, I find the story of these three girls, sisters in everything but blood, an immensely comforting read.
Serves 4
Ingredients Pavlova 2 egg whites 110g caster sugar (even better if it is vanilla scented - store your sugar with a couple of split vanilla pods for a few weeks) 1tsp cornflour 1/2tsp cream of tartar Syrup 1 pomegranate Up to 50g caster sugar Topping 1 pomegranate 300ml double cream
Equipment Greaseproof paper Pencil Baking tray Electric hand whisk or mixer Spatula Knife and chopping board Small saucepan Potato masher Fine sieve Whisk
1. Preheat your oven to 180C. Draw four 10cm circles on a sheet of greaseproof paper, flip it over, and use it to line a baking tray.
2. In a spotlessly clean bowl, beat your egg white to soft peaks. You can do this by hand, but if you have a mixer or electric whisk, now would be the time to employ it. Once at soft peaks, start adding the sugar, a tablespoon at a time. Beat on a high speed for another three minutes until the meringue is smooth, glossy and stiff.
3. Take a pinch of the meringue between your fingers and rub it. If you can still feel the grains of sugar, beat it a bit longer - the undissolved sugar will make your pavlovas weep in the oven. Once the sugar is completely dissolved, sprinkle the cornflour and cream of tartar over the meringue and gently fold it in.
4. Divide the meringue evenly between the four traced circles, and create a slight indent in the middle of each one, where the filling will sit. Transfer the tray to the oven, immediately reduce the temperature to 140C and bake for 50 minutes. When the pavlovas are crisp on top, turn the oven off, leave the door ajar and allow them to cool completely.
5. While the pavlovas are baking, prepare the syrup. Put the seeds of the pomegranate into the saucepan and place over a low heat. Mash them until they release their juice, and then push them through the fine sieve, until you’re left with only pulp and seeds. Weigh this juice, and return it to the saucepan, along with the same weight of sugar. Place back over a low heat, bring to the boil and allow to cool.
6. Release the seeds from the second pomegranate. Whisk the cream to soft peaks. Serve each pavlova with some cream, pomegranate seeds, and a drizzle of the syrup.
Kate Beckinsale has earned the best reviews of her career for Love & Friendship, an adaptation of Lady Susan, the remarkably wry and worldly novella Jane Austen wrote as a teen. The film, Beckinsale’s second collaboration with director Whit Stillman and co-star Chloë Sevigny, 18 years after The Last Days of Disco, is a comedy about a brilliant widow hoping to secure a moneyed future for herself and her daughter. Beckinsale, 43, spoke to the Guardian before picking up the Evening Standard best actress award this month.
Did the film change your feelings about people getting more cynical as they get older?
We always think of Austen as so poised and elegant; there is a sort of rage underneath that lives in this character, which I really liked seeing. It’s almost like she had to purge that in order to be able to write everything else. She was such a smart woman facing all those social constraints, so it felt a bit like her going: “Right, this is my shadow having a scream.” And then she went: “Oh, I shouldn’t do that.” And put [the manuscript] in a drawer. There is something more raw about it, which probably is to do with being younger.
Lady Susan is said to have “an uncanny understanding of men’s natures”. Is that still the key to social success?
Yes, except that I think the advent of constantly available porn, which would have horrified Austen, has changed things rather. It’s just more apparent now: men’s natures had to be covered up a little bit more, just as women’s did. I would never be able to go on a dating site, ever. I would just be expecting a murderer and a psychotic rapist. However, I do have friends that are on it, and it does seem like there is a sort of loophole for free prostitution that seems to be beneficial to the bloke. I’m sort of aware that’s happened.
Do women today still have to do a lot of what Lady Susan calls “enduring ridiculous manhood”?
No. I mean, one of the things the film does make you think is: my God, we have come an awfully long way. Obviously, in the light of certain political events this year, one worries those things are a bit more under threat. But if this was transposed to a modern setting there would be no story. This is a bright woman who would probably be the CEO of a company with a ton of boyfriends. She has operate in that slightly machiavellian way because society doesn’t give her intelligence enough of an outlet.
Why are audiences so drawn to bitches and bullies?
When we were making it, Whit referenced Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, and it’s a very similar thing: you don’t necessarily want to go on holiday with these people, or have them in your family, but it’s quite thrilling watching them at work.
Is the key to Lady Susan’s success her absolute confidence?
I think so. I think she’s got an absolutely iron-clad self-belief, which I deeply envy. Her nature is incredibly practical; there’s nothing practical about self-doubt and self-loathing and self-torture. She doesn’t waste any time doing anything like that. That would be novel for me. I think we all spend far too much time doing that.
Why do we?
Partly because we’re not working in a potato field and worrying our children are going to die of leprosy. It’s the luxury of the middle class to have those kinds of things going on, I think. And also, we have so much information coming at us now. Lady Susan would hear what was happening one county over, possibly, but we’re panicking about air crashes all over the world and what kind of mosquito might bite us. Our general level of anxiety is related to how much is going into our little brains.
Which freaks you out most?
Climate change really bothers me, and it doesn’t seem to be quite as pressing to certain politicians as it think it ought to be – it’s pretty terrifying.
Is the real love the friendship?
I think so. The love in the title, which is not the title of the novella, is between Chloë’s character and mine. It was a really nice thing to revisit that. I was so rotten to her in our earlier movie, whereas this is women complicit and battling against everything.
Do you think such bonds can be more enduring than romantic love?
I know that my oldest friends are from primary and secondary school and I don’t know if I will have a relationship that has lasted or will last as long as that. I’m not pressured to find friends physically attractive over several hundred decades, which is a slightly easier thing to sustain. Female friendship in movies is something that you jump at because it’s not every day that a director, especially a male director, wants to write a movie about pretty complicated women with the kind of love that Whit has. I’ve had two characters with him who you wouldn’t want to go on a mini-break with, but it’s so delicious to see his real enjoyment of a prickly woman. And it’s borne out: people have loved this movie and gone to see it a lot. So, there is a place for not just the whore, not just the madonna, but this kind of difficult woman. She’s like Emma on steroids.
Is it rare to have a female lead who is older, cleverer and better-looking than the men she’s paired opposite?
Not necessarily. I know that it exists, finding parts harder to come by – but it hasn’t [happened] so far to me. I’m having a wonderful time being the age I am being an actress. It’s partly Whit having had the idea for me to do this when I was 22 and doing Last Disco, and him waiting for me to ripen. I didn’t know that until recently and I thought: God, that’s really playing the long game. You don’t usually find directors patiently waiting for you to age.
Is he waiting for you to ripen further?
I’m hoping. Maybe he’s got Miss Havisham in mind.
Did you find the reviews saying you were “a revelation” and “surprisingly funny” patronising?
I wouldn’t say patronising. I think people tend to remember the last couple of movies they were aware of your doing. And it depends on what’s more important to you: how you’re perceived or your experience of your career. I’ve done a lot of films that a lot of people haven’t seen, coupled with films that are a bit outside my comfort zone, actually, which a lot of people have seen or certainly been aware of. And, for me, the ability to be able to sort of flit between genres that shouldn’t go together and generally don’t has been an incredible privilege. I don’t mind pockets of time where people go: “Oh, maybe she’s a bimbo,” because I know I’m not.
It really depends how much meaning exists for you in your own experience of it and what you’re doing it for. If you were doing it to hear marvellous things about yourself all the time then you would stop immediately when you had a horrible review – probably aged about 19. I think it’s important as an actor to have periods where you’re not flavour of the month or rewarded every single time you leave your house, because it really does make you question if it’s what you really want to do and how you can get better.
Do you agree with Lady Susan that facts are horrid things?
Sometimes. I generally want to get to them, but I’m not necessarily pleased when I do. My favourite thing is transparency and honesty, but that can be a bit of a brutal life, it can be perhaps easier to get in a bit of a bubble. But it’s generally better to know what one’s dealing with, I suspect.
Particularly in 2016?
It is a bit tricky. Both countries that I am part of are so divided, and that is a really scary thing in itself. That’s just a sign of restlessness and trouble, and it’s a really new and strange position to be in, to be so aware of it. I think everybody found that out twice this year, and those facts were quite horrid things.
How does Britain look from LA?
Well, I come back eight or nine times a year and my mum’s here and my best friends are here. But it’s weird that a country and a city moves on and grows up independently. You do have it in your mind as staying the same and you’re homesick for something that is different when you come back. That can be a little bit jarring. It looks different. The skyline is completely different. I keep wondering where the old ladies in John Lewis went.
They all had to be killed – did you not hear about that?
Yes, I knew something must have happened. The high street where I grew up seems a bit more fancy and worldly. I remember when you spent a whole afternoon gluing a 50p to the pavement and hiding. Children don’t do that sort of thing any more. I would still happily do it. In fact, I might – my mum has got a brilliant front gate for that sort of thing.
• Love & Friendship is available now on DVD and Blu-ray
A campaign by a software engineer to fund distribution to every MP of a book touted as the “ultimate guide to Brexit” has crashed through its target, just days after it was launched – thanks to backing from more than 200 members of the public.
Oxfordshire-based Justen Hyde launched the appeal to to put copies of Ian Dunt’s Brexit: What the Hell Happens Now? into the hands of MPs a week ago. Seven days later, it had already passed its £4,000 goal. With three weeks to go until the fund closes, the organiser expects more money to come in.
Among high-profile backers for the initiative is philosopher and vocal remain campaigner AC Grayling, who contributed £100. He wrote on the Justgiving page: “Harass every MP until they have read Dunt’s book.”
Hyde said: “I’m just staggered by the response. I don’t even have much of a social media presence, so this has been incredible.” He was inspired to send copies of the book after he became increasingly frustrated by the level of debate surrounding Brexit.
“After the referendum, I have been waiting for some sort of clarity from the government about what happens next,” he said. “But I have become so frustrated that no one in power seems to have a clue about what they are doing. If I approached my [job] in the same way that the government is approaching Brexit, I would be in deep trouble.”
Though he voted remain, he said his campaign was bipartisan and aimed simply at ensuring those in power are informed about the complexity of negotiating the UK’s departure from the EU.
“I picked up the book to find out what people in the know would do,” said Hyde, who lives in Witney, the former constituency of David Cameron, who was replaced as MP by Robert Courts, a leave campaigner. “I wanted to send a copy to him, not to change his mind but because if we are going to go ahead with this, we need to be clear about the task.”
Dunt’s book was written to cut through the propaganda, myth and half-truths perpetrated by both sides during the EU referendum campaign in June. The author, editor of the politics.co.uk website, spoke to constitutional and trade experts about the risks involved in Brexit negotiations and how to minimise any negative effect on the UK. The author said: “It was based on exactly the opposite of what Michael Gove wanted to do [by ignoring experts].”
Hyde said he hoped reading the book would “challenge the magical thinking among MPs that they can make Brexit a success simply by stating that it will be a success”.
Inspiration to send the book to all 650 MPs came from Skeptics in the Pub, the critical thinking and drinking group that sent a copy of Mark Henderson’s The Geek Manifesto to every MP to improve debate around science.
Canbury, the publisher of Brexit: What the Hell Happens Now? has responded to the campaign by paying for half the books, reducing a potential bill of £6,393 to £3,959. Hyde had initially planned to use any extra money raised to send copies to members of the House of Lords, but news that a Lords committee is pressuring the government to put in place a transitional deal with EU, to ease the process of Brexit, has changed his mind.
“They are raising all the questions we want them to,” Hyde said. “What we think will be more useful is to send copies to all the members of the Scottish parliament and Welsh and Northern Ireland assemblies because they will have a significant role to play in negotiations.”
He added that he hoped MSPs and devolved assembly members would pressurise MPs to read the book. If insufficient money is raised to fund extra copies, remaining money will be donated to reading charity the Book Trust.
Dunt said he had been encouraged by Hyde’s campaign. “There has been so little content to the debate that MPs are having in parliament, I really hope that those who are backing leave will read it,” he said.
Dunt’s book is only the latest literary giveaway to be targeted at MPs. Earlier this week, a pensioner presented a collection of short stories, memoirs and essays about refugees to British parliamentarians. Michaela Fyson handed over copies – one for each MP – of A Country of Refuge, with help from the book’s editor Lucy Popescu, at an event attended by MPs, members of the Lords, writers and refugees.
Our No 4 film of the year is the fourth collaboration between Luca Guadagnino and Tilda Swinton, after The Protagonists (1999), The Love Factory (2002) and I Am Love (2010). A shimmering erotic thriller, A Bigger Splash stars Swinton as a near-mute rockstar recuperating from throat surgery in a luxury villa on a remote Italian island with her boyfriend (Matthias Schoenaerts). They are then invaded by her ex, a roistering, hard-dancing record producer played by Ralph Fiennes, and his sultry daughter (Dakota Johnson). Swinton, 56, is currently shooting a fourth film with Guadagnino, Suspiria – a horror set in a 1977 ballet school in Berlin – and so replied to questions by email.
What are your feelings about A Bigger Splash at this distance?
We are proud of it. We made it in a kind of fever, very fast – in the eye of the wind – and now that the dust has settled, it’s good to see that chaos bottled in the film from a safe distance. Quicksilver was its material … getting a cork on it was the task.
What did playing such a non-vocal character tell you about communication?
That words aren’t the half of it.
Should people embrace muteness more? Do we say too much?
No comment.
The film touches on the refugee crisis. Have you been surprised at the lack of progress on that front since you made the film?
The refugee crisis on Pantelleria [where A Bigger Splash is set and was shot] has been a reality for generations. Further, slaves were “processed” there centuries ago. Both facts form the bedrock of setting A Bigger Splash on this particular island. The film we made was about a kind of solipsistic bubble-life lived by those that choose to edit out certain realities in an effort to fantasise the conceit of a “perfect”-ly self-centred narrative.
This bubble-capacity has certainly had a – startlingly – strong year: our film started life as a kind of sick satire about different ways of carrying that bubble-commitment: the overbearing and incessant babbling of the narcissist, the disengagement of the bereaved and disenchanted, the resentful cowering of tamed (suppressed) violence and the lethal allure of the undereducated, surface-sampling, oversaturated young. Looking at it now, it’s all of a sudden – and somewhat dispiritingly – a darker and more recognisable portrait of a human landscape less rarified than we had thought when we made it, even 18 months ago.
As Ralph Fiennes’s character claims – is Europe a grave? Is everyone obscene?
Certainly. The entire planet is a grave. We walk on – and with – the dead. But we also live forward, in a continually renewable birthplace. Just as we are all capable of obscene cruelty and barbaric selfishness, at the same time, we – all – have within us the generosity of unconditional kindness and the wisdom and courage of fearless fairness. It’s all about choices.
Does wealth and a certain kind of success naturally risk conceit?
Conceit and delusion are not the exclusive province of the rich, nor is it inevitable that wealth and what is called worldly success necessarily makes for monstrous or arseholic behaviour and attitudes. People are people and all of us have the opportunity to play into those tired old stereotypes just as we are free to ignore them. See above re making choices.
Was Marianne modelled in part on Bowie’s Aladdin Sane?
Actually, this is a misunderstanding. We weren’t particularly pitching ourselves in Ziggy’s direction – although it had to be admitted that anyone opting for an onstage sequin jumpsuit until the end of time will be somehow seen as quoting him ... fair enough … pace Marc Bolan, pace Freddy Mercury et al … Marianne’s public persona is certainly just as influenced by Bowie as anybody of my generation, but also by many others – Chrissie Hynde, Siouxsie Sioux, Nick Cave …
What have you learned from Luca Guadagnino that you haven’t learned from other collaborators?
That I’m not the only one who prefers the quiet treasure of lengthy pre- and post- production to the whip-crack of shooting, however much fun we make it.
Has A Bigger Splash changed your dancing?
Put it this way, I’ve yet to sign up for lessons at the Fiennes fine dance academy and weekly Jazzercise Jamboree. But never say never.
A Bigger Splash is available now on DVD and Blu-ray
Premiered in Birmingham town hall in 1846, and a fixture of massed British choral societies ever since, Elijah is a prime culprit of George Bernard Shaw’s quip accusing Mendelssohn of “despicable oratorio-mongering”. But get a performance as fleet-footed and intelligent as this – conductor Thomas Hengelbrock with his excellent period-instrument ensemble and choir – and all stodge and sanctimony are swept away. There is heft when it matters, in Yet Doth the Lord, and drama-charged recitatives from fulsome voiced soloists (soprano Genia Kühmeier, alto Ann Hallenberg, tenor Lothar Odinius, bass Michael Nagy). But what’s more compelling is the nimbleness, the swift-moving parts. There are quick corners and shapely inner voices, subtle weft even in classic fat chorus numbers such as Blessed are the Men who Fear Him. Raspy period strings add God-fearing menace, the choir sound rich but luminous in detail.
In the late 1950s, Bohuslav Martinů (1890-1959) turned his mind to Moravian folk poetry – images of the Czech highlands where he grew up – and wrote four little cantatas with wistful names such as Romance of the Dandelions and Legend of Smoke from Potato Tops. The last one, Mikes of the Mountains, tells of a shepherd who saves his goats from a snowstorm. It all tastes of soil and nostalgia, but these are more than simple rustic tone paintings. Martinů instructed that they shouldn’t sound sentimental and he spliced the folksy choral passages with stark harmonies and off-kilter percussive stuff. Instrumentation includes accordion and “drumming on a chair” – the sounds creak, jolt, motor and soothe. The Prague choir gets the balance right: vivid character and resonant voices but never saccharine and rhythmically taut. This is the ensemble that premiered three of the cantatas (in a previous guise) and it’s hard to imagine singing of more authority in Martinů’s music.

Each week on the Guardian’s podcast What Would a Feminist Do?, host Jessica Valenti tackles a different issue that women face today. Next week, we’re doing a post-election debrief.
As always we want to hear from you: do you have anxieties or concerns about a President Trump? What specifically do you think will change?
Share your comments and queries below. We’d also love if you left us a voice message we can play on the show: 917-900-4577.
Share your comments and queries below, and we’ll select some of them to include in the next episode. You’re also welcome to leave a voice message to play on the show: 917-900-4577.
Although your submission gives the Guardian permission to publish your story or question, we will not use your name or location except as you specifically allow on the form. The information you submit is encrypted, and we will not share your contact information.
Jonathan Larson’s musical is 20 years young and still rocks effectively in this revival by Bruce Guthrie, played out on a scaffold design by Anna Fleischle that invokes the grimy glamour of New York. A thrilling young cast do an awful lot to disguise the flaws of the show, which is set among a community of artists, drug users and homeless people in the East Village during the mid-1990s.
The clumsy, uplifting ending – when music seems to bring about a back-from-the-dead miracle that even Jesus would be proud of – is but one indicator that this show still needed work when its talented young creator died suddenly from an aortic aneurysm on the eve of its first off-Broadway performance in 1996. If he had been able to, Larson – who, unusually, was responsible for score, book and lyrics – would have surely kept on working on his beloved baby through previews and performance.
Not surprisingly, myths have arisen around Rent, which ran for 12 years on Broadway and won a Pulitzer – although a theatre Pulitzer is as reliable an indicator of achievement as an Evening Standard award.
Larson’s untimely death added an extra aura of emotion to a show that already had a high hankie factor. But that’s not to detract from its very obvious pleasures: an inventive, intricate score and a whole lot of heart as club dancer Mimi (Philippa Stefani), drag queen Angel (Layton Williams), performance artist Maureen (Lucie Jones) and others face up to life and death. When the HIV positive singer-songwriter Roger (Ross Hunter) poignantly sings in One Song Glory of writing one worthwhile song to leave behind, you can’t help but think of Larson himself, who left an entire score as well as the charmingly wry mono-musical Tick Tick... Boom!
Larson hijacked Puccini’s La Bohème (there’s a lovely nod to its influence in the rousing first act finale, La Vie Bohème) to write about a changing East Village in the process of gentrification that was pushing the poor and the artists out, as seen through the eyes of Mark (Billy Cullum), an aspiring film-maker. Guthrie quite rightly sets the show in period, but its resonance – in a changing London landscape of rising rents and displaced artists – is strong.
Storytelling and characterisation were not Larson’s strongest skills. This is a musical in which almost nothing has happened by the interval, and where several of the characters can come across as whiney. But this young cast work not just vocal magic, but make you care for the characters, and Lee Proud’s choreography provides momentum and energy as if they really are dancing for their lives.
There is not a weak link in the casting, but the standout performance comes from the acrobatic Williams as the doomed Angel, so desperately full of life and love.

• At St James theatre, London, until 28 January. Box office: 0844 264 2140.
Somewhere in Bavaria, electricity crackles and dead synapses fire instantly back into life. Deep in the Amazon jungle, a loathsome gilled monstrosity emerges from the swamp and sets out on its reign of carnage. In rural England, a hideously bandaged man tries to hide from sight in the remote countryside.
Universal’s classic monsters are all returning to the big screen, and this time they will all be part of a single Marvel-style shared universe – with stars such as Johnny Depp (The Invisible Man), Tom Cruise (The Mummy) and Javier Bardem (Frankenstein) lined up to get their freak on. Here’s what we learned about the studio’s plans from the first trailer for the debut instalment, The Mummy.
Universal’s previous Mummy films, the classic 1932 version starring Boris Karloff and passable 1999 remake with Rachel Weisz and Brendan Fraser, centred on archaeologists whose unwise delvings unleashed the cursed Egyptian priest Imhotep back into the world. This time around, the setting is updated, with Sofia Boutella’s powerful undead creature apparently brought back as a result of current military conflicts in the Middle East. Whether the monster was unearthed by Islamic State or released into the world following the looting of ancient burial sites by other factions, we don’t yet know.
Forget Frankenstein, The Wolfman, The Creature from the Black Lagoon and The Invisible Man. This first look at The Mummy suggests Cruise is the only Hollywood behemoth in town. The debut trailer for Alex Kurtman’s movie seems to have the Top Gun star’s DNA built into its very fibre, the familiar blend of blitzkrieg action and shadowy intrigue instantly recalling the actor’s recent turns in Mission: Impossible films or alien attack movie Edge of Tomorrow. There is little of the gothic intimacy of the early Universal monster movies.
We all know what happened to the original Jekyll, but Crowe’s version looks a little different. Evidence suggests he’s the mysterious kingpin of this new world of supernatural awakenings, rather than the meddling overreacher of yore. Kurtzman says the doctor will be revealed as a member of a shadowy group known as Prodigium and may have attained some form of immortality. “He is really the central voice of that organisation. He’s dedicated a lot of his life resources and work to it,” the film-maker told IGN. “The question of how old he is, the question of how long he’s been around, that’s another conversation.”
Unless the trailer is playing tricks on us, Cruise’s Nick Morton appears to die when a flock of birds crashes into his military jet, then finds himself awakening, very much alive, in a morgue. What’s especially strange is that our hero doesn’t appear to be particularly surprised or upset by the experience: it’s as though this has happened many times before.
Kurtzman’s revelation in the IGN interview that Morton has his dark side – the director calls him a “bad man” – may shed some light on the matter. “Things happen to him in this movie that really test where he is on the morality scale,” says the director. “He starts at a zero. The question is, weirdly, by becoming a monster or moving into that territory, will he find his humanity?”
The Mummy, with its vision of all-powerful ancient monstrosities seeking to take back control of the world, looks like the perfect epic-scale opener for the studio’s new cinematic universe. But it remains to be seen how creatures such as Frankenstein’s monster and The Invisible Man – stories that are naturally rather more low-key – fit into the studio’s vision of ultra-modern, widescreen, world-straddling action adventure. Both seem to belong to a bygone age, when it was easier to believe in supernatural phenomena happening somewhere far, far away, in some rural idyll or mountainous European backwater.
The existence of Prodigium, and evidence in the trailer, suggests the freaks are coming out of the shadows, taking over our cities and wreaking havoc on humankind. Whether they remain quite so terrifying when seen in the full light of day will presumably determine whether Universal’s ambitious plan to resurrect its classic monsters sinks swiftly back into the hell whence it came or awakens – eyelids flickering into life, pulse racing anew – to mount a fresh assault on the global box office.
To Kill a Mockingbird and The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn have been suspended from the curriculum in some Virginia schools, after a parent complained about the use of racial slurs.
Harper Lee and Mark Twain’s literary classics were removed from classrooms in Accomack County, in Virginia after a formal complaint was made by the mother of a biracial teenager. At the centre of the complaint was the use of the N-word, which appears frequently in both titles.
The woman who made the complaint said her son struggled to read the racist language, telling the Accomack County public schools board: “There’s so much racial slurs and defensive wording in there that you can’t get past that.” The challenge also appears to be motivated by the current political landscape in the US, as the mother told the board: “Right now, we are a nation divided as it is.”
As a committee has yet to discuss the future of the books, a permanent ban has not yet been placed on the two books. However, they have already been removed from classrooms in the district, a move the National Coalition Against Censorship described as “particularly egregious”. The NCAC slammed the action in a post on its Kids Right To Read website, writing: “By avoiding discussion of controversial issues such as racism, schools do a great disservice to their students.”
In a letter to be sent to the Virginia school board, the NCAC will point out that “each book enables readers to gain a historical understanding of race relations in America and invites them to examine race in the present day. Although discomforting to some, the racial slurs realistically depict American history and should be addressed under the guidance of a teacher.”
Books are at the forefront of battles over free speech across the US. In November alone, a mother in Tennessee led a campaign by parents for the removal of a school textbook they claim “promotes Islamic propaganda”; in Iowa, a proposed ban on Stephen Chbosky’s The Perks of Being a Wallflower was successfully overturned after complaints about “graphic sex”; and in Washington State, a prohibition on “potentially frightening books” being read out at state-sponsored nurseries came under fire after it emerged that daycare providers had refused to read classics including Where the Wild Things Are.
Lee and Twain’s classics are high on the list of most frequently challenged Young Adult books in the US, according to the American Libraries Association. Also on the list are The Handmaid’s Tale by Margaret Atwood, four Judy Blume titles, the Diary of Anne Frank and Romeo and Juliet.
Reasons for challenging a book’s place on the curriculum vary, but religion and sex top the list, according to the ALA’s annual Banned Books Week list. In 2015, Mark Haddon’s The Curious Incident of the Dog In the Night-time fell foul of parents for “profanity and atheism”, while the Bible received complaints against its “religious viewpoint”.
By now, you’ve probably heard the big news: The Last of Us Part II is coming. Developer Naughty Dog took to the stage at the PlayStation Experience (PSX) event in Anaheim, California on Saturday, confirming a sequel for its critically acclaimed post-apocalyptic adventure. We will return to the harrowing lives of Ellie and Joel as they seek to survive a nightmarish pandemic – and to take some sort of revenge.
Little else is known about the game, but it’s the manner of that announcement, and what else happened that night, that tells us a lot about where PlayStation – and the industry at large – is going.
PSX is unlike any other corporate event in the games industry – it is equal parts video game expo, marketing conference and fan convention. Building on the success of previous events in Las Vegas and San Francisco, thousands of gamers arrived at the Anaheim convention centre to worship at the cross – and circle, square and triangle – of Sony’s console and play some of the 150-odd titles on the show floor or attend panels starring industry heavyweights including Hideo Kojima and Naughty Dog’s Neil Druckmann.
Unlike, say, E3 or Gamescom, the vibe to these events is intimate, informal and almost relaxed. AAA attractions like Uncharted, Resident Evil and Destiny shared booth space with a battalion of indie games, all of whose developers were on hand to talk about their creations. Tellingly, the behind closed doors area where industry insiders could get priority access to games was tiny and understocked; PSX is intended as a gathering for what former Sony America President and CEO Jack Tretton termed “the PlayStation Nation” and within its walls everyone’s an equal.
This spirit of inclusivity extended to the keynote address that kicked things off on Saturday morning. Allowing several thousand fans to enter the sort of space usually reserved for media and marketeers transformed what could have been a staid presentation into something more resembling a pep rally. Game reveals are roared to the rafters and Sony execs are welcomed onto the stage like rock stars. Popular president of Sony’s Worldwide Studios Shuhei Yoshida is given a standing ovation, his opening gambit drowned out by a terrace chant: “YOSH-I-DA! YOSH-I-DA!”
“Presenting is nerve-wracking but when you just show up and people are like that, it just makes it so easy and exciting,” Yoshida says the following day, insisting it’s his favourite event of the year with only the mildest whiff of corporate obligation. “People plan a vacation in December around it. It’s not as crowded as Tokyo Gameshow or Gamescom, people don’t have to wait for hours to play games.”
People like Oscar Sanchez, who has travelled down from San Francisco for the weekend with his partner Shelby at a cost of around $500 on top of their $75 two-day ticket. “You pay for experiences like this,” he says. “I don’t eat a lot of take out every day. I put that money aside. I don’t go to Starbucks.”
Sanchez went to the PSX event in his hometown last year and “kind of fell in love with everything. I’m a pretty big Sony fanboy I guess,” he says.
This peculiar bond between player and platform did at times take on the feel of a religious or even political experience. When chairman of Sony’s Worldwide Studios Shawn Layden tells the crowd at the end of the keynote, “the PlayStation Nation is so powerful and we love you all”, a loud voice reflexively replies. ‘We love you too!’ It’s a sentiment reciprocated by hundreds of hyped-up attendees.
But what about the games? Sony has spent an inordinate amount of time this year talking about hardware, be it the two new PS4 consoles – Slim and Pro – released in the autumn, or the PSVR headset that finally hit shelves in October. But PSX was awash with software.
Over 50 titles were showcased in the opening keynote alone, culminating with the show-stopping teaser trailer for The Last of Us Part II – a long-denied but now finally confirmed sequel to one of the previous console generation’s very best games, masterfully revealed with a brooding clip in which a blood-soaked Ellie strums a murderous Shawn James revenge song, Through the Valley, and vows to kill every last one of her enemies.
“If the first game’s core theme was really about the love between these two characters and how we build that through the story, music, interaction and gameplay mechanics, this story is the counter of that. This story is about hate,” revealed game director Neil Druckmann in his standing room only panel on Saturday afternoon.
The game is set some years after the end of the first one and sees Joel replaced by Ellie as the main playable protagonist, but the biggest surprise was surely the game being revealed here at all.
“There was a big discussion between [developers] Naughty Dog and Sony about where should we show this Last of Us trailer,” explained Druckmann. “Some people were saying we should wait until E3 as E3 is bigger. But we’re such fans of PSX and being here with the fans that this was the venue for it. There’s no other option.”
Naughty Dog’s standalone Uncharted 4 expansion, The Lost Legacy, also opened the keynote, emphasising the Santa Monica-based developers’ position as the pre-eminent PlayStation studio. “People have choices of systems that they can play games on – more than just console games, there are games everywhere,” says Yoshida. “But people choose PlayStation to play games like Naughty Dog’s, which aren’t available anywhere else, and they associate Naughty Dog with the highest standards of quality and drama and gameplay they can enjoy. For lots of fans it’s very important that Naughty Dog games are available on PlayStation.”
It’s telling, though, that neither Naughty Dog title revealed at PSX represents a new IP. In fact almost all of the top tier AAA games showcased on stage have a number or similar spin-off signifier suffixed to the title. Destiny: The Dawning, Street Fighter V, Knack 2, Gran Turismo Sport, Ni No Kuni II, Ace Combat 7, Gravity Rush 2, Marvel vs Capcom Infinite. Only two are breaking new franchise ground: Horizon Zero Dawn and The Last Guardian – and the latter was first revealed almost a decade ago.
The reasons are manifold but the bottom line is that publishers of AAA games, who have always been risk averse, are becoming ever more so in the modern industry. The current generation of hardware makes the cost of developing lavish titles prohibitive to the point where funding one that doesn’t have a ready-made audience is a potentially ruinous gamble. The march towards 4K graphical fidelity only exacerbates the problem.
Although as the recent disappointing sales for the excellent shooter Titanfall 2 proved, even sequels are no longer a sure thing. Which is perhaps why so many publishers are now turning to remakes and remasters instead. Nostalgia might not be what it used to be, but old games can be a great way to generate new revenue streams.
Gamers love remasters because they know exactly what they’re getting – not least the chance to revisit and relive moments from simpler, perhaps even happier, times. Publishers love them because much of the creative heavy lifting has already been done, thus minimising much of the financial outlay and risk. And some developers see them as a chance to preserve important cultural artefacts from gaming’s physical storage-based past in the cloud for generations to come to enjoy,
The distinctive aroma of vintage gaming hung over PSX like a cloud of Brutaftershave. Early PlayStation mascot Crash Bandicoot returned in the N Sane Trilogy; Shawn Layden wore a Wipeout t-shirt on stage to celebrate the seminal racer’s Omega Collection update for PS4; and cult classics Parappa the Rapper, Patapon, LocoRoco and Windjammers all received the warmest of receptions from gamers barely old enough to remember them the first time round.
“Why is there such a wave of nostalgia at the moment? Because these games are fantastic!” exclaims Kara Massie, the producer of Activision’s Crash Bandicoot remake. “We can recreate these things from the ground up and make it look and feel and sound like any new game that’s being released in 2017 so why not? They’re really, really fantastic games and still completely compelling to play.”
Shuhei Yoshida echoes Massie’s sentiments when asked posed with a similar question about what’s driving this rampant retro dev scene.
“People asked us for it. You saw the reactions when we announced those titles. It’s amazing to look at Wipeout in 4K, or Parappa the Rapper on the big screen. The teams have completely redone the graphics, but the original game is intact … People have asked for it for the longest time, and we weren’t able to respond to that demand before. Judging from the reactions, I think that we’re doing the right thing.”
There’s still plenty of innovation to be found at PSX, though, thanks to the thriving indie scene. One of the event’s founding principles was to provide a platform for independent developers, and a significant chunk of the keynote was devoted to showcasing smaller games, from the epic space combat of Dreadnought to Supergiant’s party based RPG Pyre and haunting puzzler What Remains of Edith Finch.
Well over a dozen indie titles got their moment in the limelight on stage and dozens more were given valuable and prominent exposure to mainstream gamers on the show floor.
“Sony have been fantastic with indies for some time and it’s one of their biggest strengths that they put a lot of effort into getting indies on to their platform as well as the AAA games,” explained Ollie Purkiss from Guildford-based studio Wonderstruck. “We’re working with Sony on [massively multiplayer sandbox game] Boundless and they’ve been so supportive in all ways to bring this game to their platform, which is great.”
Purkiss and his colleagues have spent the weekend holding the hands of gamers curious to take their first steps in Boundless’ beautiful connected voxel worlds. And their prime position in the very centre of the conference hall means there have been plenty of people to chaperone.
But it’s an interesting admission from Sony, and one that has been reiterated over the last two or three E3 events: nostalgia and big brands are likely to dominate the triple A space going forward, while quirky, innovative and new experiences are effectively outsourced to the indie community. It’s how the movie industry works of course, and it’s interesting how PSX is coming to resemble the vast Comic Con events, where big name television and film properties fight for space with independent and cult titles, basking in that reflected fandom.
The Last of Us Part II is certainly the biggest story of the event, but its prominence – and the hundreds of smaller titles placed beneath and around it – tell us a lot more about where the console business is going than just how much everyone loves Ellie and Joel.
Now in its first revival, David Bösch’s production of Il Trovatore relocates Verdi’s great examination of factionalism and infanticide to a modern, if unspecified, war zone. The transposition suggests an intention to take the work seriously rather than treat it as melodrama, and there are, indeed, unsettling scenes involving the humiliation of prisoners by soldiers that resonate with events in recent conflicts.
But the dramaturgy is also slipshod and frequently lacks focus. Di Luna’s army, with its fearsome artillery, is pitted against partisans who are armed with little more than crowbars and seemingly roam the country in the guise of a transvestite circus. Anita Rachvelishvili’s Azucena and Najmiddin Mavlyanov’s Manrico – mother and adoptive son – look the same age. Gábor Bretz’s hunky Ferrando is decades too young to have lived through the backstory he recalls, and the scene in which Leonora (Maria Agresta) mistakes Di Luna (Quinn Kelsey) for Manrico in the dark takes place on a well-lit stage.
Musically, it’s also a mixed bag. Conductor Richard Farnes admirably favours emotional subtlety and fine instrumental shading, but the singing is variable, with the best performances by Rachvelishvili, who is thrillingly intense, and Bretz, who is handsomely stylish. Agresta, clean and clear in lyricism, makes heavy weather of her coloratura. Kelsey is pushed in Il Balen, while Mavlyanov, although pleasant sounding, wanders through it all looking utterly bewildered, as well he might. Dispiriting, all of it.
•In rep at the Royal Opera House, London, until 9 February. Box office: 020-7304 4000.
You know you’re in panto land when it suddenly seems the most natural thing in the world for a man dressed as a pagoda to ask if anyone has seen the dancing rabbits. And lo, three giant bunnies appear and bound across the stage for no discernible reason, except that this is Nottingham Playhouse, where dancing rabbits have become an indispensable part of the formula.
Writer-director Kenneth Alan Taylor has been tinkering with this formula for 33 years, so it’s no surprise that he has it bubbling to perfection. These days he’s ceded the dame’s wig to John Elkington, who is developing into one of Britain’s finest young Twankeys (he doesn’t look a day over 50, but is pretty handy with a banjo-ukulele for George Formby’s Chinese Laundry Blues). Even though he’s no longer the star turn, Taylor still knows how to make a production sparkle – according to the figures supplied in the programme, Tim Meacock’s eye-popping sets are encrusted with 19.5 kilos of glitter and 46,000 sequins, which may be a conservative estimate.
Taylor realises that the key to making pantomime relevant is to strike a careful balance between old and new; it’s notable that even the keystone cops of old Peking now wear high-visibility jackets. But the highlight is a medley of vintage Broadway show tunes performed atop a full-scale replica of the Orient Express. Taylor’s pantomimes tend to hit their sweet spot when trading in shameless nostalgia, but for the time being it continues to be full steam ahead.
• At Nottingham Playhouse until 21 January. Box office: 0115-941 9419.
Everybody thinks they know Grease but what they are invariably thinking of is the glibly sanitised film version (the highest-grossing screen musical of all time) which transplanted the action from the rough streets of Chicago to the golden beaches of California. Nikolai Foster’s production is the first major revival to go back to the original source; and though no one might be expecting John Travolta’s toothy shtick, you could be forgiven for wondering where all the sunshine and palm trees have gone.
The show was originally the brainchild of an advertising copywriter, Jim Jacobs, and a high school art teacher, Warren Casey, who met at an amateur theatre group in Chicago and cooked up the idea of a musical inspired by the greasy fast food, fast cars and oily hairdos of their teenage years. Ultimately their modest show about gangs of disaffected kids in the industrial midwest became the most successful attempt to put delinquency on the Broadway stage since West Side Story.
In terms of sophistication, the music barely touches the hem of Bernstein’s masterful score; but that is beside the point. Casey and Jacobs wanted to pay homage to the doo-wop hits of the 1950s, and a key leitmotif throughout the show is that Nathanael Landskroner’s gamine, guitar-toting Doody struggles to master the hackneyed C-A minor-F-G chord progression that spawned a million rock’n’roll ballads; before he eventually spins them into a genuinely inspired melody entitled Those Magic Changes.
The most magical of the changes wrought by Foster is the restoration of some original tunes rarely heard since the first Broadway production. The pick of these is a musical monologue for Dex Lee’s supercool Danny entitled How Big I’m Gonna Be, which indicates how the big shot behind the Burger Palace Boys (the T-Birds in the film) is anxious that he will amount to little more than a small-time hoodlum. Less essential is the wistful In My Day, a solo in which the high school principal gets to reminisce fondly about her own teenage years. Shobna Gulati does this very affectingly, though it is clearly only there to buy time for Jessica Paul’s Sandy to be sewn into the pair of spandex trousers required for the finale.
Even prior to her spectacular makeover, Paul is far from a prim Pollyanna; and the spirited resistance she puts up towards Djalenga Scott’s sizzling Rizzo makes you wonder if the show’s attempt to celebrate teen rebellion really proves the opposite – that youth culture exerts an even greater pressure to conform. Here Sandy’s adoption of high heels and a smoking habit feels more like a capitulation than cause for celebration. But even so, Foster’s unsentimental version deserves credit for putting the grit back in Grease.
• At Curve, Leicester, until 21 January. Box office: 0116-242 3595.

• Spoiler alert: this blog is published after The Walking Dead airs in the US on Sundays. Do not read unless you have watched season seven episode seven, which airs in the UK on Fox on Mondays at 9pm.
“You know what’s going to happen,” said Negan. “It’s going to be hard to watch.” He was addressing the assembled Saviors in their former factory compound as he prepared to apply a red-hot iron from the furnace to Mark’s face as punishment for some infraction. But he could have been talking to us.
We know bad stuff is going to go down – Michonne will behead that walker, Negan will brand someone’s face – but however hard it is to look, it’s harder still to look away. Indeed, the paradoxical and even degrading fact for us about this season is that its most captivating episodes (the brutal premiere in particular) have been the hardest to watch.
What made this episode so compelling, though, was that so often we didn’t know what was going to happen. What was Jesus going to do when he came down off the roof of Negan’s truck? What was Spencer plotting against Rick in the woods? What did Rick and Aaron hope to seize from the tooled-up hermit? Was the single bullet Eugene has made for Rosita going to be enough to kill Negan? What was Michonne planning to do when she arrived at the Savior’s compound? What might Negan do to baby Judith? Answers on a postcard please.
Mostly, though, we were in suspense over what Negan would do to Carl for machine-gunning two of his men. “You’re smart, kid,” he told Carl. “What do you think I should do with you. Kill you? Iron your face? Chop off your arm?” Carl, who had removed his patch to show the hole where his eye once was, stared Negan down with his other eye and said, coolly: “I think you should jump out of the window to stop giving me the trouble of killing you.” Negan retorted with his best grin – he loved the kid’s moxy.
It’s nice to have Negan back. He makes this season pop, even when he says things that should make us cringe. Or – worse – because he says them. “I am not going to have time to screw any of my wives today,” he said near the start of this episode, realising he had a busy day ahead. A beat. “I mean, maybe one.” Then he showed off his harem. “You’re going to want to look at their titties,” he said in one of many slimy asides to Carl. “It’s cool. I don’t mind. They don’t mind. Knock yourself out.”
Whatever you need to tell yourself, you misogynistic nutjob. Among the captive wives was Amber, in tears over the face-ironing her boyfriend Mark was about to endure for sleeping with her. “I love you,” she told Negan unconvincingly, hoping he might decide not to maim her boyfriend and, ideally, not harm her either.
Negan, at least, decided not to do the latter. “You see?” Negan said to another of his wives, Sherry. “I wasn’t hard on her, though” – he added with a priapic leer that united sexual and violent boasting in one dirty double entendre – “I’m very hard in general.” “You’re an asshole,” Sherry, with good reason, told him. Negan grinned and replied: “I know. And the messed up thing is you like me anyway.” This sort of exchange gets to the heart of how Jeffrey Dean Morgan as Negan has captured the wandering hearts of certain women with his sleazy allure, if not to what Sherry really feels about him.
Carl had got into the Savior’s compound in the back of the truck carrying bounty from vassal compounds like Hilltop and Alexandria. Jesus, who like Carl nurtures a wish to terminate Negan, had jumped out of the truck moments before – but not before he cut the bottom out of a box containing the best of the haul (a case of whisky) so it shattered when one of the henchmen tried to pick it up.
Once the truck pulled up, Carl started shooting. Two of Negan’s goons died, then he threatened to off their leader. “Drop your weapons. I only want Negan. He killed my friend. Nobody else needs to die.” Negan deflated Carl’s threat with banter: “You are adorable!” he patronised. “Did you pick that gun because it makes you look cool? You totally did!” And then Negan’s lackey, Dwight, sideswiped Carl, disarmed and subdued him.
What now for Carl? Negan repeatedly insisted he must be punished. But how? After Negan invited Carl back to his quarters and demanded the boy remove his eye patch, he piled on the humiliation.
He asked after the boy’s mother and Carl was obliged to relate how he had killed her before she became a walker. Negan then insisted he sing a song. As Carl weedily sang You Are My Sunshine, Negan tried a few practice strokes with Lucille, his barbed-wire wrapped baseball bat. Is this how Carl would be punished? Perhaps. But not for now.
The episode cut from Negan and Carl to other intriguing subplots. “Hating somebody – is that a sin?” Spencer asked Father Gabriel on a scavenging trip from Alexandria. “No. Well, not necessarily,” said the priest. “Thoughts are just thoughts – it’s actions that matter in the end.” Really? I’d like a second opinion, but no matter: Spencer was clearly planning to put his hateful thoughts for Rick into action, probably by attempting to kill the new leader of Alexandria, in part to honour the memory of its old leader, his mother.
The episode also cut to Michonne who had set up a roadblock of walker corpses to ambush one of Negan’s lickspittles and force her to drive her to the Savior compound where, fingers crossed, she will put her katana to work.
We also cut to Rosita and Eugene. The former, at least, was still bent on avenging her dead ex, Abraham. Only one problem: Eugene isn’t sure he should make her a bullet fit for purpose even though he promised he would. “You said yes!” complained Rosita. “You’re right. I said yes,” replied Eugene before getting, as is his wont, verbose. “It was peachy for the moment. In the intervening hours I have been taking a deep dive into other options and contingencies trying out any iteration in which charging into this enterprise makes any sense.” He had a point – one bullet, all those Saviors loyal to Negan. What are the odds of that plan working? And yet, towards the end, Rosita loaded her gun with the bullet he had made for her.
We also cut to Rick and Aaron. I’m not quite sure what they’re up to, but the safe money says their aim is to take Negan down and destroy the Saviors. The noose, you might think, is tightening for Negan what with Michonne, Rosita, Rick, Aaron, Jesus and Carl all seemingly plotting to murder him.
But then Negan wrongfooted everybody (with the possible exception of Jesus, who is a mystery wrapped in a riddle wrapped in a full-length leather coat). He left the Savior’s compound. He insisted that Carl drive him back to Alexandria. With Jesus, unseen, on the roof.
Before they headed off, Daryl found his voice and used it to threaten Negan. “If you do anything to the kid…” It sounded like an empty threat, given how seemingly enfeebled Daryl has become during his incarceration with the Saviors. But maybe I’m wrong: near the end, someone slipped a note under his cell door. “Go now” said the note, probably written by Sherry. Perhaps, I like to imagine, Daryl will escape the Saviors, come across that crossbow Spencer found with the walker in the woods, and take out the Savior trash, starting with Negan. I wouldn’t bank on that happening though.
Once at Alexandria, Negan found lots of his vassals – Rick, Aaron, Michonne, Rosita, Eugene – were no longer there. So he made himself comfortable to await their return. Since he had plenty of time on his hands, he made an indecent proposal to Olivia. “I think it would be enjoyable to screw your brains out. I mean, if you’re agreeable to it.” Olivia, understandably if dangerously, slapped him. Negan, as ever responding to an attack with spirit, replied: “I’m 50% more into you now.”
At the end, Negan settled on Rick’s porch in the lovely evening, dandling Judith, the daughter of Rick’s dead wife and Carl’s half sister. Olivia had placed some fresh lemonade in a jug with some glasses on the table. It was a parody of domestic bliss. And then Negan, as he does, shifted the mood from suburban idyll to ring of hell: “Maybe it’s stupid of me to keep your dad alive,” he told Carl. “Maybe I should bury you both in the flowerbeds. And I could just settle in the suburbs.”
Maybe that’s what’ll happen. Or maybe Carl is going to do him in before any of the other Alexandrians sharpening their knives get to act on their wishes. Despite what Negan says, we don’t really know what’s going to happen.
“It’s like talking to a birthday present. You gotta take that crap off your face. I gotta see what grandma got me.” Negan asking Carl to remove his eye patch.
“Christ! That is disgusting. No wonder you cover that up. Have you looked in the mirror? That is gross as hell. I can see your socket … I wanna touch it. Can I touch it?” Negan after Carl removes the eye patch.
“Lucille loves being sung to. It’s about the only thing she loves more than bashing in brains. Weird huh?” Negan explaining to Carl his baseball bat’s favourite things.
“We bring civilisation back to this world. We are the Saviors, but we can’t do that without rules. Rules are what make it all work.” Negan explaining to the Saviors why he is going to iron Mark’s face.
“Some crazy shit, huh? You probably think I’m a lunatic.” Negan’s aside to Carl after ironing Mark’s face.
Skeletons excavated at a site near Glastonbury are the oldest examples of monks ever found in the UK, carbon dating has proved.
The remains, unearthed at the medieval Beckery chapel in Somerset, said to have been visited by legendary figures such as King Arthur and St Bridget, indicate a monastic cemetery dating back to the fifth or early sixth centuries AD, before Somerset was conquered by the Saxon kings of Wessex in the seventh century.
Archaeologists first located an extensive cemetery of between 50 and 60 bodies during an excavation in the 1960s. The fact all were male – apart from one female, thought to have been a visitor, nun or patron, and two juveniles, who may have been novices – left little doubt this was a monastic graveyard.
Now a new excavation – a community training dig – has uncovered two more bodies, and taken bone samples of seven other individuals which, when carbon dated, showed the earliest to have died between AD406 and 544.
Dr Richard Brunning, site director of the lottery-funded dig by the South West Heritage Trust, said the discovery was both “very exciting” and “a big surprise”.
“Radio carbon dating has allowed us to get the answers we have been waiting for for 50 years,” he said.
Monasticism began in France just before AD400, and gradually spread all around the Irish Sea in Ireland, Scotland, Wales and western England, he said. “But this is our earliest archaeological evidence for it in the UK.”
“There are various saints’ lives that suggest people might be founding monasteries, but they are vaguely dated and it is uncertain how far you can trust them, because, obviously, it is in their own interests to big up the history of whatever saint they are writing about, and they are usually written several hundred years afterwards.”
Brunning said of the find: “It is a big surprise. We didn’t think they would be that early. We thought they would all be quite late because there is a medieval chapel on the site and we thought these would be late Saxon continuing.”
Beckery, in Somerset’s Avalon marshes, which means either “bee-keeper’s island” in Old English or Irish for “little Ireland”, was the perfect location for a monastery.
“It is rather curious landscape today, with an industrial park at one edge, and a sewage farm at the other. You have got the modern encroachment of the outskirts of Glastonbury, and on the other two sides you look out across the Somerset Levels and moors, across the low wetlands,” said Brunning.
“Back when it was a monastery, it would have been a small island of hard geology just sticking out of the floodplain. Just the sort of place where you could get away from the normal secular world and devote yourself to God, effectively.”
The excavation, which took two weeks, was carried out by about 25 local people. The findings will now be written up for an archaeological journal and the site, which will be laid out with interpretation panels, will be open to the public. “Glastonbury Abbey is a big tourist attraction itself, so it just adds to that wider Glastonbury story.”
The site of the medieval chapel, which predates Iona Abbey in Scotland founded in the late sixth century, was first excavated in the 1880s by John Morland, and again in the 1960s by Philip Rahtz, but because carbon dating was in its infancy, it was not known how old it was.
Seven individuals were dated, six from graves and one from human bones found in the backfill of the 1960s dig. The earliest monks died in the fifth or early sixth centuries with burials continuing in the seventh to early ninth centuries. The monastic use of the site may have ended in the later ninth century when Somerset was attacked by Viking armies.
Matthias Pintscher is now in his mid-40s, with a highly successful career as a conductor running in parallel with his prolific work as a composer. He’s currently music director of the Ensemble InterContemporain and artist-in-association with the BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra, but his twin activites often seem to reinforce each other, and it’s with the EIC that Pintscher has recorded these three works composed between 2009 and 2012, each with links to Jewish culture.
Bereshit for Large Ensemble – the title employs a Hebrew word from the Torah for “beginning” – traces out a creation myth of sorts, beginning in the depths and tracing out a half-hour arc by steady accretion and mounting activity, virtuosically scored and played, until it more or less returns to where it began. The ruminative Uriel, for cello and piano, shares its title not only with the angel who expelled Adam and Eve from the Garden of Eden, but with a painting by the abstract expressionist Barnett Newman, while Songs from Solomon’s Garden sets the Hebrew texts for baritone more as chant than true song, with a chamber orchestra providing the dramatic backdrop. It’s all very accomplished, all very well “heard”; how substantial this slick music is, though, is harder to say.
In putting Berlin under the microscope in the last of our post-Brexit tours of the great cities of Europe, it seems that all roads lead to Kurt Weill. “Berlin will forever be associated with the turbulent times of the 20th century,” says @abkquan, whose suggestions have been a mainstay of these surveys. “The Weimar period produced the definitive Berlin work – Weill’s Threepenny Opera with its many familiar tunes, especially with Lotte Lenya singing Jenny.”
The Threepenny Opera, a collaboration between Weill and Bertolt Brecht based on 18th-century dramatist John Gay’s The Beggar’s Opera, was premiered at Berlin’s Theater am Schiffbauerdamm in 1928, and after some initial resistance was a great success, vindicating Weill’s ambition to reclaim opera as an art form for the people (though Berlin’s elite of course delighted in its scabrous tale of cutthroats and prostitutes).
@abkquan’s point about the cultural and intellectual richness of Germany in the 1920s is well made. While society was in ferment and the postwar economy hopelessly unstable, writers, artists and composers were producing urgent, vivid work. Far from inhibiting artists, the instability and danger proved an inspiration, and fundamental questions about the future direction of Germany were being asked.
Much of the musical excitement of the period can be traced back to the pianist, composer and conductor Ferruccio Busoni, who was born in Italy but made Berlin his home from his late 20s until his death in 1924 at the age of 58. As well as a wonderful pianist, Busoni was at the forefront of introducing contemporary music to Berlin and was also a great teacher of composition, numbering Weill among his pupils.
@abkquan calls Doktor Faust Busoni’s “summation work”, and that was certainly the composer’s ambition. He spent almost a decade working on it, but it was still not quite finished at his death. Rarely staged, not often recorded and generally regarded as brilliant but uneven – like so much of Busoni’s work – it deserves a hearing.
Busoni’s epic piano concerto, premiered in Berlin in 1904, is also a wondrous piece – its 70-minute length and need for a male chorus in the final movement are presumably the reasons it isn’t performed more often. Busoni also wrote for solo piano, though these many works have been overshadowed by his transcriptions of Bach. A composer in urgent need of reappraisal. Busoni, that is, not Bach.
For a lover of classical music, Berlin is perhaps the most rewarding city in the world. @PositivistDinosaur certainly thinks so. “[It] not only supports its justly celebrated orchestra but three opera houses, all with ticket prices a fraction of those in London, and goodness knows how many other musical venues. This summer, Iréne Theorin was singing Brunnhilde there at the same time that Nina Stemme was singing Isolde 400 metres down the road. Is there any other city where that would have been possible?”
@PositivistDinosaur links this glorious present with the intense excitement of the period after the first world war. “The interwar years,” he points out, “saw the premieres [in Berlin] of operatic works by Berg, Hindemith, Milhaud and Schreker, in that extraordinary decade or so of creativity before the Nazis’ rise to power and their banning of ‘degenerate music’.”
Alban Berg’s Wozzeck was first performed at the Berlin State Opera in 1925 under its music director Erich Kleiber, a champion of Berg’s music. It was the banning of Berg’s Lulu in 1934 that led Kleiber to resign his post, leave Germany and begin a peripatetic exile that eventually ended in Argentina – and the reason his son Karl, who grew up to be an equally formidable conductor, became known as Carlos. Erich Kleiber was not Jewish, but chose to give up plum posts in Berlin and at La Scala because of fascism. Staunch defenders of Richard Strauss and Wilhelm Furtwängler please note.
Paul Hindemith’s relationship with the Nazi authorities was more ambivalent – he made various attempts at compromise before opting for exile in Switzerland in 1938. His opera Mathis der Maler, based on the life of the German Renaissance artist Matthias Grünewald, was a metaphor for his own struggle to maintain artistic freedom under the Nazis. While working on the opera, Hindemith, who taught at a music school in Berlin, also published a symphony with the same title. Perhaps not surprisingly, the symphony tends to get more outings than the opera.
@abkquan brackets Hans Pfitzner’s 1917 opera Palestrina and Mathis der Maler together as works that set the freedom of the individual artist against an overbearing regime. In Pfitzner’s case, this becomes complicated because he made an accommodation with the Nazis far more damaging than that of contemporaries such as Richard Strauss, and Pfitzner’s reputation, already a little threadbare, has never recovered. Revivals of Palestrina are still met with tut-tutting about his pro-Nazi sympathies.
Yet it is a great opera, and the view that it presages the dilemma faced by composers under the Nazis is a valid one. The composer Palestrina, the hero of the opera, refuses to kowtow to a cardinal who wants him to write a new piece to use in a doctrinal battle he is waging against the pope. Palestrina refuses, but then writes it anyway while in a dreamlike state, and is saved from execution. The metaphor can be read in several ways: there is nobility in refusing to bow to pressure, but also nobility in producing a piece that ultimately saves the polyphonic music the pope is trying to ban. What is incontestable is that the opera contains some inspired music – far too good to be kept hidden because Pfitzner later prostituted himself before the Nazis.
As the conductor Christian Thielemann told me when he conducted Palestrina at Covent Garden in 2001: “What has C sharp minor to do with fascism? Nothing. I am not interested in what composers have eaten or what their political beliefs were. Music doesn’t get better because one person was better than another person.”
Two final thoughts before we take our leave of Berlin. @abkquan, without whose contributions these mini-essays would have been very feeble (thanks to him and all the other commenters for suggestions), reckons we should include David Bowie, who lived in the city in the late 1970s. The obvious discs to include are his Berlin trilogy – Low, “Heroes” and Lodger. But even more appropriate – and neatly circular – is Bowie’s version of Weill’s Alabama Song. Truly essence of Berlin.
He also thinks we should mention the performance of Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony that Leonard Bernstein conducted in Berlin on Christmas Day 1989 to mark the tearing down of the wall between the eastern and western halves of the city. “That was a time of hope, of integration, of cultural and intellectual exchanges,” writes @abkquan. “Sadly, a quarter of a century later, the west is again building walls metaphorically or, as Trump proposed, literally.”
Brexit and Trump! How blessed we are. But the wheel will turn again. It always does. The small-mindedness of Trump and the Brexiteers cannot for long compete with the largeness of spirit of a Bernstein. Or, indeed, a Beethoven.
Previous cities in this series: London | Paris | Venice | Helsinki | Prague | Hamburg | Rome | Vienna | Amsterdam
Thanks to everyone who has contributed to this series. 
In the post-Serial world, drama podcasts have been upping their game and now Homecoming (iTunes, Gimlet Media) takes the format to another level.
It’s impossible not to become immersed in the opening episode of the psychological thriller. Catherine Keener stars as Heidi Bergman, a caseworker from an experimental facility who’s helping soldiers integrate back into the community. She’s focusing on Walter Cruz (Star Wars’ Oscar Isaac), who is trying to live a normal life and keep his inner darkness at bay. It’s not easy, as he reveals his thoughts about harming himself: “I saw the desk and I just imagine leaning way back and slamming my forehead into the corner as hard as I could, over and over, into my eye,” he tells her. “But that was an extreme. It’s not like that all the time.”
Bergman is keen to take a holistic approach, which is not good news for Colin Belfast, her take-no-prisoners boss, played by David Schwimmer. He is heard rushing through the airport, tripping over a little girl’s backpack as he instructs Bergman to “get really granular with all that shit”. He even provides a moment of light relief. “This is a walkway!” he rages, incredulously. “All right. Goodbye. Good talk.”
Homecoming is the first scripted series for Gimlet Media, producers of podcast hits such as Heavyweight, StartUp and Reply All. The quality of the acting draws you in, then stops you in your tracks. (Arrested Development’s David Cross and comedian Amy Sedaris are also on the cast list.) It nails the feeling that characters are doing what they’re supposed to do, rather than standing huddled around a microphone. Subtle sound effects, such as a fishtank bubbling away in the background, and not-so-subtle ones like the noise of a busy airport, make it more akin to a lavish TV production than a staged radio drama.
As the narrative flips back and forth from Heidi’s time as a caseworker to five years later, when she’s waitressing, mystery surrounds what brought her there.
Ending on a cliffhanger after only 19 minutes, Homecoming leaves you wanting more. Good job there’s another five episodes in the first season.
If you like this, try this: Limetown, a mysterious tale of a place where everyone disappeared.
Slowly but surely, the gentleness of Jim Jarmusch’s lovely new film steals up on you. It has an almost miraculous innocence. I can’t remember when I last saw a movie whose adult characters had so much simple, unassuming goodness, goodness that breaks everything in the modern culture rulebook by going unironised and unpunished. And Adam Driver’s face is something to fall in love with. An Easter Island statue reborn as a sensitive, delicate boy.
It is about a man called Paterson, played by Driver, who works in Paterson, New Jersey; the coincidence underscores his matter-of-fact hometown loyalty without any great emphasis, though it echoes a similar alignment in the epic poem of that name, and about that place, by William Carlos Williams. Paterson has evidently served in the US military and is now a bus driver. He is also a poet on his own time (an admirer of Williams, in fact), thoughtfully writing in a notebook during breaks. His simple, accessible verses appear on screen in squiggly handwriting as he works. He is not supposed to be a genius, but neither is his work hilariously awful or inadvertently revealing, as it might be in another type of film.
Paterson is very happily married to the beautiful Laura (Golshifteh Farahani) who stays at home, pursuing her talents: painting, decor, cooking. She begs Paterson for money so she can buy a guitar and pursue her dream of being a country singer. But again: this guitar does not bring the financial ruin or mortification that you might expect. The point is that Laura is rather good and her plans are not that implausible. At all times, we laugh the way Paterson laughs – with Laura, not at her.
In the evenings, Paterson walks their English bulldog Marvin and has a quiet beer where he chats with barkeep Doc (Barry Shabaka Henley) and helps sort out the unhappiness of some other bar regulars: young former lovers Marie (Chasten Harmon) and Everett (William Jackson Harper). And his life continues in its utterly happy, non-careerist way until he is confronted with a terrible loss, which appears at first comically absurd but is very serious.
This is a real place with real landmarks, yet Jarmusch can’t help reconfiguring it into one of the unreal, ghost-town sites of his imagination. Paterson will walk streets that are weirdly uninhabited, except for sudden, startling cameo-apparitions. It is not that far from the ruined Detroit of his vampire fantasy Only Lovers Left Alive (2013) and Paterson’s easy self-reliance is like Forest Whitaker’s in Ghost Dog: The Way of the Samurai (1999).
There is a very real, nuanced moment when, listening in to his passengers’ conversation, Paterson starts smiling at the machismo of a couple of bragging, sexist guys – but a female passenger frowns at them while getting off: Paterson sees that and thoughtfully corrects his own smirk.
Adam Driver’s Paterson is robust, candid, ingenuous – 'without side', as the English say
Yet so much of the rest of the movie is not quite real, or perhaps it is rather that Jarmusch does not replicate reality in the way other film-makers do. Paterson is walking the dog when a crew of gangbangers surreally roll up, yet there is no tension or confrontation: they just ask (admiring) questions about his pet.
The unreality extends to Laura’s persistent, fateful questions about making sure Paterson’s poetry gets out to the public, and worrying that he has made no copies. Both have evidently never considered or even heard of public performance or poetry slams, or sending his work to magazines, or self-publishing digitally. No, all Laura means is Paterson going to a store and getting his poems photocopied – though, unlike her technosceptic husband, she has a smartphone and could presumably photograph them all herself in five minutes. Yet you accept all this as part of the tender protective unworldliness that Jarmusch creates for his characters like an almost magic canopy: Paterson’s work exists in a pre-Gutenberg state and this meshes with Jarmusch’s film-making vernacular.
Adam Driver’s Paterson is robust, candid, ingenuous – “without side”, as the English say. Or, as American soldiers say: he is squared away. That equine, distinguished face is far from the villainy of the new Star Wars movies. He sometimes looks as if he could be any age from 27 down to 17; it is an open and generous face, clouding heartbreakingly at the moment of loss, clearing wonderfully at a final, mysterious, serendipitous encounter. He has never been more beguiling as an actor.
Here is a soprano with the kind of crystal-clear tone you could pour over ice and drink. Regula Mühlemann’s Mozart selection eschews the obvious arias while still showing off considerable musicality and a superior technique. In the fast final section of her aria from Der Schauspieldirektor the notes are as even, accurate and well defined as they would be on the piano; the syllables of Geme la Tortorella from La Finta Giardiniera fall in fat, clear raindrops; Servilia’s aria from La Clemenza di Tito is short but beautifully done. All have supple, flowing accompaniments from the Basel Chamber Orchestra. The stratospheric Vorrei Spiegarvi is the first thing that seems to touch her limits – it takes the voice up to the edge of what any singer might be expected to reach – but even if she doesn’t quite have the two low notes she needs at the end, she tackles it very convincingly.
It wouldn’t be an overstatement to say Charlie Simpson has had a change of heart. After he left Busted in 2005, he compared his time in the pop-punk boy band to “torture” and insisted he would never, under any circumstances, rejoin. Last May, though, he found himself headlining Wembley Arena with Busted in front of 12,500 fans. That’s some U-turn.
Simpson is now gearing up for the release of the third Busted album, Night Driver – 13 years after its predecessor, A Present for Everyone. The trio come with a reinvented look and sound: gone are buoyant guitars and questionable lyrics about shagging teachers and jizzing in pants. Instead, Busted 2.0 play pop-aligned R&B, like Maroon 5 channelling Get Lucky. The wacky facial expressions of their teens are replaced by brooding, faraway gazes; their schoolboy shirts by satin bombers. Think Ryan Gosling in Drive, only with more baggage.
At YouTube’s London headquarters, a multi-screen video wall is playing clips of seven-year-old singers and famous vloggers gesticulating, while Charli XCX booms from the speakers. The group is here to launch the record’s debut single, On What You’re On. It is a good song, I say.
“Shock horror!” Simpson replies.
How do they feel about people perhaps not having high expectations for their return?
“That’s a loaded question, but I like it,” replies Matt Willis.
“It feels good. I’m kind of at this point where I can’t wait for people to hear it,” Simpson says. ”It’s such a funny thing that I think people still don’t really get why we are here again, because they know the story of why it ended. It seems crazy that it might happen again.”
James Bourne and Willis formed the group in 2000. Simpson came later, in time for them to be launched as a pop-punk boy band in 2002, and also departed first. Bourne and Willis barely spoke to Simpson for the decade they were apart.
Then, one day in early 2013, they arrived on his doorstep to ask if he fancied giving Busted another shot. At this stage, Bourne and Willis had already committed to the McBusted tours of 2014 and 2015, a team up with their former proteges McFly, a lucrative run of dates that proved there was still an appetite for pop punk boybands, even if the groups concerned were no longer boys. Simpson, to their surprise, was interested in re-forming their original group. One might suspect the prospect of earning decent money might have played a part in his decision. Did it?
“There are plenty of things over the years that I could have done for the money,” replies Simpson.
Such as?
“Well for a start … what Matt and James did with the McFly guys. If there was ever a time for a massive amount of money to be made then that would be it. It wasn’t on my radar.” Details of the split are sketchy. The group, particularly Bourne and Simpson, seem keen to gloss over the past and concentrate on the future. Simpson left at the peak of their success, and you get the feeling from previous interviews that Bourne never really got closure, which hurt. He speaks of his time apart from Simpson – hearing songs on taxi radios, wondering whether Simpson might like them, too – with the kind of misty-eyed lament you imagine Marr and Morrissey would relate to.
In the intervening decade, they have all kept busy, but never matched their former band’s fame. Simpson released one solo album and four with Fightstar, a venture that largely revolved around convincing the music press that he was rock enough. Bourne meanwhile launched a string of solo albums under guises such as Son of Dork, Future Boy and Call Me When I’m 18, and wrote some musical theatre. A natural pop hit songwriter, he also co-wrote tracks for the Saturdays, the Vamps, 5 Seconds of Summer and McFly. Willis made a solo album, appeared in Birds of a Feather and EastEnders and was crowned king of the jungle on I’m a Celebrity … Get Me Out of Here in 2006.
While Bourne felt “lost”, and finally relocated to the US in 2008, having spent a lot of time there, Simpson (who had formed Fightstar while still in Busted) says he was close to depression and turned to drink and drugs before he left. Willis, meanwhile, was admitted into the Priory in 2005 for alcohol abuse, and a year later for an addiction to weed. In 2008, he returned to rehab again. It’s something his wife, Emma Willis, spoke about in a documentary made in the run-up to the McBusted tour. She was naturally a little nervous about him going back out on the road. Given everything they have gone through, is it difficult for family members to see the band back together again?
“Different when you’re younger, different when you’re younger,” Bourne says.
“I think everything is different when you’re younger,” Willis agrees.
“Very different,” says Simpson.
“It’s a very weird thing to suddenly be in something enormous. Then for it to suddenly end. It’s hard to vocalise,” Willis says.
“It’s also weird because our perspectives were so drastically different,” Simpson suggests. “It affected us in different ways. It’s such a wide thing because we had such different things going on in our heads; different issues to deal with. And to be young in that situation … as hard as it is being young, you are also very naive, so you sort of take it more at face value. Now I know so much more about the industry, I know so much more about how things work.”
Bourne: “It’s night and day. You can’t compare it.”
Simpson: “What happened to us was 10 years ago, and I do want to move it past that.”
They are adamant that everything happens for a reason. Breaking up was a good thing because it meant they could preserve their friendship, and ultimately make this album, the album they wanted to make, without a label or any pressure.
“Had we stayed in the band, we would have driven our friendship into the ground,” says Simpson. “We probably wouldn’t have talked to each other again. It’s the only way this could have happened now, and I do quite want to move it on past talking about that because we are here to talk about something new and exciting.”
A week or so later, we meet again at their rehearsal space. The mood is a little less intense. First time around, Busted were lumped in with the manufactured pop groups of their era; they were never really treated as a legitimate band. Perhaps that had something to do with the songs about jizzing in pants. But there was also a suspicion among the champions of “real music” about a group who could sell 5m albums and appear on Saturday morning TV. And they did get really famous, really fast; the sort of famous where you get disconcerting fan gifts: “On a birthday card,” says Willis, “someone had shaved their pubes and sellotaped it to the side. With her number.”
“We didn’t know how to open our mail,” Bourne recalls of their time living together as teens. “I think our cleaner once found some crazy cheque from a publishing company that nobody knew was there – it was just sitting there in our mail, this massive cheque that nobody saw.” Having a support structure was never even on the agenda. “After being signed, we used to get the tube in, the Piccadilly line to the West End. We would just ride the tube in,” he recalls. “When the single came out, people started to recognise us. [Before then we] operated quite simply.”
“We didn’t know that shit was available. It wasn’t like: ‘Why don’t we have a person?’ I remember when we went to see One Direction, I saw their setup and was, like … ‘Woah!’ we were just kind of rolling around getting on with shit,” adds Willis.
Nevertheless, Bourne says, even if they had assembled a support team, it would not have protected them from the effects of their escalating fame. “It doesn’t matter how well you think you are looked after or how happy you think you are at the time. The only way you really learn things is when you go through things. You know you have to … it’s an experience you learn yourself. It’s up to you to flag the things.”
We’re different people to the people we were. We were little kids back then
Busted still seem preoccupied with being taken seriously. They describe the recent spate of “big reunion” re-formations of pop bands as “tragic”; they say they don’t care about the success of Night Driver; they insist they would happily play in tiny venues if that were the only path open to them. You get the feeling they’re keen to erase a past that is too potent to ignore.
“Funnily enough, when we were out at a dinner I put on this fucking shit video from Busted back in the day, this thing of us hanging out, and someone filmed us and I was like, ‘Who the fuck is that guy?’” Willis says.
“You’re so young, 16, 17, you’re not really yourself yet. You’re copying other people. Your whole existence is made up from being what you’re supposed to be like,” Bourne says.
“A lot of that is that when you are 17, all you really give a shit about is what your mates think of you,” Willis says. “I just wanted my mates to think I was cool. Some of of them did and some of them did not. But now I don’t give a fuck.”
Their attitudes aren’t the only things that have evolved with time. Culture for one, has moved on. In a review of Busted’s show in London in May, the Daily Telegraph suggested the song Who’s David had dated badly, with its misogynistic undertones (“You stupid lying bitch, who’s David?”) all the more uncomfortable coming from people who no longer had the excuse of being teenagers.
“What do you mean, misogynistic undertones?” asks Bourne.
“You can’t say stupid lying bitch any more,” Willis replies.
“Really?” Bourne says.
Simpson: “As you say, society has changed hugely. Much more PC.”
Willis: “Basically, it’s not cool to call women bitches any more.”
Simpson: “I’m not sure it ever was.”
Willis: “That was kind of the point.”
Bourne: “Even if they lie?”
Willis: “Even if they have been a bitch to you.”
Bourne: “Even if she cheats on you, is she not a bitch?”
Simpson: “Derogotary terminology. Anyway, we would never write lyrics like that. We’re different people to the people we were. We were little kids back then.”
“It’s the difference between being 18 and 33, it’s that different,” concludes Bourne, on board with third-wave feminsim, on board with an all-new Busted.
Night Driver is out now on East West.
Philippe Herreweghe, respected elder of the early choral music world, directs a pared-down version of his choir Collegium Vocale Gent in delectably careful performances of music that in less careful hands can sound plain crazy. The slippery harmonies of Carlo Gesualdo’s sixth book of madrigals, written in 1611 but sounding centuries ahead of their time, are nailed down with the sharpest, slenderest of pins thanks to the perfect tuning and clear tone of Herreweghe’s ensemble. One to each line, the singers maintain a finely balanced blend, emerging briefly as soloists at moments of emphasis. Some may find the ambience a bit churchified for these texts, in which images of frolicking cupids are heavily outweighed by the laments of unbedded lovers miserably invoking death; but the performances are full of subtle nuance, and you’re unlikely to hear passages such as the end of Io Pur Respiro, with its sliding, viscous harmonies, better done.
‘To be fair, asking for 10 tracks is totally taking the piss,” says Jazzie B, with a chuckle. The DJ, producer, broadcaster and Soul II Soul leader has had difficulty narrowing down the tunes that define what was, for him, a pivotal decade.
“The 60s and 70s must have been incredible, but I think the 80s was the best time,” he says. “I don’t keep my records in any order other than eras – and there’s maybe eight shelves of everything that happened in the 80s. Back in the day when you [DJed], you played all night. I could name all the artists off the back of my shoe. But the point was, where did that relate to at that time, to what you were involved in? The sequence of these songs was about setting the mood.”
As he will explain on a BBC2 show on Saturday, the decade has particular resonance for Jazzie. “I started [DJ-ing] in 1977, and Soul II Soul really lifted off into the stratosphere in 1989,” he says. “By 1987, I was on the tarmac, walking up to the rocket; by 88, I was in the rocket. We were training through the 80s, and this music would have been part of the soundtrack of my life.”
I plucked that one out to half represent Motown, which was quite prolific during that period, and, of course, the wonders of Stevie Wonder, who was like an encyclopaedia to me, growing up listening to him and being heavily influenced by him musically. I think I probably started off with Innervisions, but as I was growing up, hearing Stevie come up with stuff like this was mind-blowing. The way Stevie would approach music is such a moving thing.
This came right in the nick of time, and helped change the whole idea of what R&B and soul was about, particularly from an English perspective. Although the producer, Nick Martinelli, was American, it really put British music on the map. Instead of borrowing, here was a band – a British band – that came up with a different sound. My sound system was full blazing at the time, very much trying to empower ourselves with our own sounds and our own style. So along comes Loose Ends and totally defines that, worldwide. They proved it can happen – and it did happen. They definitely paved the way for the likes of Soul II Soul.
I have fond memories of, in my early teenage years, following people like the DJ Steve Walsh, going to places like Royalty, being part of that whole British soul scene. This was one of the anthems. Everybody immediately got it, and it was one of those anthems that, everywhere it was played, you would always have a singalong. There were tribes, people from different areas, but songs like that would be played, and everybody would be in harmony and in unison singing along to that. It would be brilliant.
Got to be Herbie Hancock, for more reasons than one. Just listen to that song – that’s it! Done! That’s the king of everything there – that guy’s one removed from God.
If you hark back to my culture, this would probably be the blues-dance days. As black British people, we were trying to define our sound again: this would have been a derivative of lover’s rock. This would be a song I’d play to bring people together at a particular time in the dance – maybe when it’s very hot, or really packed. People that are totally anonymous will be linked – inseparably linked, in an almost Velcro, chain-like way – romanticising, fantasising, listening to the lyrics, and enjoying themselves to the fullness to that particular groove.
After that sweaty embrace you’ve got to get a little bit of air, so you might disembark, as it were. The opposite end of the spectrum – and yet inseparably linked – would be this. You would let go of your partner, and then immediately, when the first four bars hit, you’re back embraced. If you close your eyes, and you are a person who would have been out raving to sound systems like Soul II Soul or even Rapattack and Good Times, this song says it all. You’ve actually brought the house to a serious level in terms of the energy and the next song that they’ll be waiting for.
Then I’d play something like this, which would allow everybody in the dance to be together in unison. You’ve got that vibe of love and everything happening. This music is sending you on an absolute journey, with everybody, in formation, dancing to this song. In those days, you really didn’t hear this type of music on the radio or on any of these other outlets. The sequence of songs I’ve just landed on you will be played, but in a very unconventional way: that includes the edit, what’s going on sound-wise, and – most important – how it’s played, with an attitude. That’s the way I came up as a DJ: there was always a message in the music that you played.
I had a major crush on her. I’d only seen her through the album sleeves, but I was blind to that – it was totally her voice and where she would go musically. This was one of the songs where I thought she was just amazing. I was asked to work with her in the 90s, and when we talked about what we were doing or where my interests lay, this was one of the songs I said I was bowled over by. Working with her was difficult. I fell in love with this song, and with this lady through this song – then I get to meet her years later, and the work we did turns out to be a song called Since Day One, so it’s almost like a full-circle kind of thing.
They are the best band I’ve ever seen live. I was in America, it would have been about 1988, somewhere in New York. These guys must have had 100 people on stage at one time, and I could detect and hear and be moved by every person in that band, and the way they played, and the emotions of the songs, the harmony between the band, and how everything just fit. I thought: “If I ever have a live band, I wanna sound at least half like that.” And now with me having the band instead of just being a studio producer, they’re possibly my biggest band influence. It was a real incredible experience. They blew my mind.
Growing up, listening to this lady sing was like church, but then it was so, so sexy, raunchy, very moving. I am a lover of powerful singers. I’ve always been asked who I’d like to work with – and on my list, she’s circled so many times. But I wouldn’t want to work with her, because she’s just totally all that and a bag of chips, and I need to keep that memory of her. Sometimes with females, I tend to maybe overcomplicate it – sometimes give too many props or whatever, because they are the alpha and omega as far as I’m concerned. But this lady properly moves me. I’m a huge fan.
Jazzie B’s 1980s: From Dole to Soul is on BBC2, Saturday 26 November at 10.30pm.
Last week, a US journalist interviewing the Rolling Stones offered up a 21st-century spin on the old ‘Can white men sing the blues?’ argument. Wasn’t the Stones’ early repertoire, heavy on the songs of Willie Dixon, Jimmy Reed, Slim Harpo, Muddy Waters et al, just an example of cultural appropriation, he asked? You might charitably describe Keith Richards’ response as a little confused. At one juncture, he appeared to suggest that the blues was actually “quite Jewish”, but the bulk of the answer consisted of Richards insisting that he was, in fact, black: “Ask any of the brothers.”
Tireless on your behalf, I’ve researched this thoroughly and can exclusively reveal that he isn’t. But equally, the charge of cultural appropriation feels deeply unfair. The biggest band of the British blues boom were always among the loudest cheerleaders for the real deal. They never pulled the grim Led Zeppelin trick of claiming they’d written songs they’d clearly swiped from old blues artists, never missed an opportunity to take BB King on tour or to try to educate their audience about the artists they were paying homage to. “I think it’s about time you shut up and we had Howlin’ Wolf on stage,” suggested Brian Jones to the presenter of US TV show Shindig! in 1965, after the Stones had agreed to appear only if the show also booked Wolf and Son House, a ballsy move in a country where the Voting Rights Act hadn’t yet been passed.
The issue is being raised again because, for the first time in their career, the Rolling Stones have elected to release an album consisting entirely of blues covers. A sceptical voice might suggest it finally confirms what their last album, 2005’s lacklustre A Bigger Bang strongly hinted at: that, as songwriters at least, the Jagger/Richards partnership is out of juice. A less cynical observer’s first thought might be to wonder why they didn’t do something like this sooner: the opening cover of Buddy Johnson’s I’m Just Your Fool comes barreling out of the speakers, sounding more raw and vibrant than the Stones have done in years.
Their second thought might be that Blue & Lonesome sounds surprisingly like Mick Jagger’s show, which rather goes against the commonly held belief that Keith Richards is the band’s R&B heart and Jagger is a fashion-conscious dilettante who’d have the Stones recording tropical house with Kungs and Seeb if he thought it would make them seem relevant. You can see how that notion came about, but while there are fantastic contributions from Richards and Ronnie Wood – the grumbling twin guitars of Little Rain; the taut interplay that powers Hate to See You Go; and, especially, the woozy, chaotic backdrop they conjure on a version of Lightning Slim’s Hoo Doo Blues – it’s Jagger’s voice and harmonica that really drive Blue & Lonesome. At his least inspired, Jagger can sound like a man who isn’t singing so much as rearranging a well-worn series of mannerisms and tics, but here his vocals are extremely powerful and genuinely affecting, as if he’s digging deep within himself to find the emotions to fit the material. You expect him to be able to summon up the kind of swaggering lubriciousness requisite for Everybody Knows About My Good Thing, originally recorded by Little Johnny Taylor, which he does; more surprising is how authentically wracked he sounds on All Your Love, Hate to See You Go and the Memphis Slim-penned title track. There’s a really striking moment on the last one where he sings the line “Baby please come on home to me”, drawing out the word “please” into a chilling, agonised, vulnerable howl.
Moreover, you wonder if Jagger’s fashion-conscious dilettantism might account for the album’s sound: Blue & Lonesome feels very much a record piloted by someone who’s heard the White Stripes or the Black Keys, or the raw blues releases on which Mississippi label Fat Possum’s reputation was founded. The sound is appealingly visceral and live: the guitars are spiky and slashing, the drums punch hard, everything – including Jagger’s voice – is coated with a thin, crisp layer of distortion, as if the band are playing at such volume and with such force that the microphones can’t quite take it.
The obvious point of comparison would be the recordings the Stones made in the brief period between their rise to fame and the full flowering of Jagger and Richards’ songwriting. But if at least one track, a version of Willie Dixon’s Just Like I Treat You, might have slotted neatly onto 5 x 5 or The Rolling Stones No 2, for the most part Blue & Lonesome doesn’t really feel or sound much like the stuff the Stones made half a century ago. They wouldn’t have thanked you for saying it, but back then, their skill lay in a perhaps unwitting ability to transform gnarled rhythm and blues into thrilling teen-friendly pop: listen to Muddy Waters’ original version of I Just Wanna Make Love to You next to their 1964 version and you hear a very grownup, slow-burning record, made by a man already in middle age, converted into something urgent and wired, the soundtrack to an overexcited fumble in the back of a Ford Anglia.
Now in their 70s, men who by anyone’s standards have lived a bit, they frequently seem to tap into something deeper about the music: they really inhabit its sense of hard-won experience. The last thing you hear on the album, after a version of Willie Dixon’s I Can’t Quit You Baby crashes to a halt, is Mick Jagger asking uncertainly “was that OK?” He sounds like a man who’s still slightly awed by this music in its original form; who knows he’s still paying homage to artists he can never entirely grasp, whatever Keith Richards thinks. But the answer to his question is an unqualified yes: it’s more than OK, which is not something you can say about many Stones albums over the last 30 years.
My favorite Thanksgiving distraction has always been the TV marathon. Cable channels like USA Network and TBS would devote their entire programming day to hours of James Bond, Star Wars, Star Trek or this year on FX, 600 episodes of the Simpsons.
But the days of TV viewers zoning out to mind-numbing marathons is coming to an end. With the advent of streaming services like Hulu, Amazon and Netflix, it’s inevitable that all-day marathons will disappear along with the cable channels that schedule them. Everything will be a choice – inscrutable algorithm-based choices will clutter your screen, your family will spend hours arguing about what to watch, the gin will run out, and then what will you do? I’ve compiled a few alternative movie marathons that you can indulge in when the unavoidable streaming impasse hits your holiday celebration.
Netflix might be moving away from carrying classic films in favor of original content, but they deserve a ton of credit for licensing most of the oeuvre of comedy legend Albert Brooks. Real Life, Modern Romance, Lost in America, Mother, The Muse, and Looking for Comedy in the Muslim World are all available to watch in chronological order. Sadly, Brooks’s most popular work, Defending Your Life, is noticeably absent. Your ability to appreciate Looking for Comedy in the Muslim World and The Muse depends on your love for Brooks, but the rest of the bunch are some of the best screen comedies of the latter part of the 20th century.
I wanted to write a whole piece about my undying love for Christmas movies starring predominantly black casts in honor of the release of Almost Christmas, but who wants to read a 12,000-word treatise on the social significance of Tyler Perry’s A Madea Christmas? In its place, here’s a list of historically black Christmas movies: Last Holiday, The Best Man Holiday, The Preacher’s Wife, Black Nativity, This Christmas, Friday After Next, and the greatest black Christmas movie of all time: Trading Places. Yes, I assure you that Trading Places is a black Christmas movie. Trading Places stars Eddie Murphy as a poor, black grifter who is given a snooty, rich white man’s house. When he finds out that he’s being taken advantage of by two even snootier, even richer, older white men, he turns the tables on them and causes them to go bankrupt. It’s a Christmas miracle!
Just to ruin any credibility I received from the last entry, I must admit my undying love for Katherine Heigl. She’s got it all: an ability to deliver terrible lines in bad romcoms; a charming, yet defining physical flaw (her snaggletooth, which joins DeNiro’s mole, Humphrey Bogart’s perpetual frown and Vince Vaughn’s weird finger as instantly recognizable physical features), and a willingness to throw caution to the wind and publicly attack the films she’s been in. She’s the perfect movie star.
Her finest work, 27 Dresses, is not available, but these are: the 27 Dresses adjacent indie film Jenny’s Wedding, CGI animated comedy The Nut Job, My Father the Hero (starring Gérard Depardieu and a teenage Heigl), and Jackie & Ryan. If you’ve ever wanted to see Katherine Heigl make out with the annoying black-hat friend from Westworld, Jackie & Ryan is your movie.
Who doesn’t love to see a large man with multiple veins popping out of his head trying to do comedy? This is an important cinematic genre, defined by a dark period of Arnold Schwarzenegger’s post-Twins career. For a few years, Arnold would sully his good name in madcap romps like Kindergarten Cop, Junior, Jingle All the Way and Eraser. They may have been gross misuses of the world’s greatest action hero, but they certainly made Schwarzenegger millions of dollars. So, every action star since has tried to emulate this successful formula.
Check out Vin Diesel in The Pacifier, Dwayne Johnson in The Game Plan, Jason Statham in Spy, Chuck Norris in Dodgeball, Spy Kids 3: Game Over (featuring Sylvester Stallone as the villain), and Jean Claude Van Damme co-starring with Adam Brody, Rob Huebel, and Kristen Schaal in Welcome to the Jungle. None of these movies are good, but they all teach a valuable lesson to viewers: stay in your lane.
Who doesn’t love to see a small man wearing multiple layers of clothing over his average physique trying to do action? Every great comic deep down wants to shoot people on screen, don’t they? Since Eddie Murphy shot a bunch of people in Beverly Hills Cop, every pretender to his throne has, at some juncture in their career, decided they too were going to tap into their macho side and blow some stuff up and throw a few unconvincing punches. Kevin Hart has made an entire career of pretending to be an action star without repercussions.
Have a watch of Martin Lawrence in Blue Streak, Ice Cube filling in for Vin Diesel in XXX: State of the Union, and every single straight-to-Netflix Adam Sandler movie. Again, none of these are good movies, but they remind you to STAY IN YOUR LANE, DAMNIT.
Bear with me, here. You know how some actors seem like they have very large heads? Like, they fill the frame in a really uncomfortable way and appear to be very heavy. Heads that resemble large pumpkins. I can’t say for sure that these heads are huge, but I would bet good money that they are: Kevin James in True Memoirs of an International Assassin, Judge Dredd, Channing Tatum in Step Up, The Lizzie McGuire Movie, John Wayne’s very large head in True Grit. I hope you invested in one of those curved TVs, so that you can fit all the very large heads on the screen.
None of these movies are actually erotic, but they could be based on their titles: The Giver, American Beauty, A Single Man, Consumed, Adulterers, Honey Trap, Hard to Get, The Big Short, The Lovely Bones, Big Stone Gap, Fourth Man Out, American Muscle, Swingers, A Girl Like Her, Deathgasm, The Cobbler …
Oh, and Nymphomaniac: Volume 1.
Does anything scream “Thanksgiving” than the Lord of Darkness himself? Dracula, Bram Stoker’s enduring and iconic vampire, exists within the public domain. That means anyone with time and money could make a film using the character without having to purchase the rights. As such, streaming services hungry, thirsting and practically begging for content to keep them young and vital will license whatever junk they can find for a low price to satisfy their nocturnal desires. Hulu, for instance, has at least five separate awful vampire movies available for streaming: Count Yorga, Vampire; Blood of the Vampires; The Playgirls and the Vampire; and Dan Curtis’ Dracula. Dan Curtis’ Dracula is notable for being directed by Dark Shadows creator Dan Curtis. It also stars Jack Palance (yeah, Curly from City Slickers) as the suave Transylvanian. The Playgirls and the Vampire is an Italian film from 1963 about five exotic dancers who get trapped in a castle owned by a vampire.
If Count Yorga, Vampire sounds like it could have been a soft-core porn too, that’s because it apparently was going to be one, but the producers axed the sex from this schlocky tale of a vampire let loose in 1970s Los Angeles. Maybe only watch these if you’re home alone on Thanksgiving.
Maybe you want to lean into the skid and embrace the inevitable ugly political conversation at your Thanksgiving dinner. If so, then queue up these classic movies starring our president-elect.
Trump appears with Hugh Grant in Two Weeks Notice, finally sharing the screen with someone with a worse sex scandal than his. Trump trades lines with Wings star Tim Daly in the woeful Whoopi Goldberg vehicle The Associate, in which Goldberg plays a woman passed up for a powerful job in favor of a less qualified man. Huh, interesting story.
Trump is also in the Whoopi Goldberg movie Eddie, Home Alone 2: Lost in New York, Zoolander, and WrestleMania 23. WrestleMania 23, where Trump shaves Vince McMahon’s head and receives a Stunner from Stone Cold Steve Austin, is available on the WWE Network streaming service for $9.99. To my knowledge, Trump receives no backend royalties for these appearances, so enjoy them guilt-free!
Naming the soloist on the last concerto recording you heard is probably easy. But can you name the orchestra? On this disc, there’s no danger of forgetting that it’s Daniel Barenboim’s Berlin Staatskapelle; the quality of the orchestral playing, the warmth and depth of tone are constant reminders. They offer worthy support to outstanding, insightful performances from violinist Lisa Batiashvili, who, like Barenboim, here commits the Tchaikovsky concerto to disc for the first time. She’s a dreamy-sounding, inward soloist at the start, shaping the melodies with care yet propelling them forward – this mammoth work has rarely seemed so concise. The Sibelius soars and sings in the first movement, and dances in the finale with a rare agility. As for Barenboim, he gives the orchestral parts the depth and scope of symphonies: the climax of the first movement of the Sibelius will knock you flat.
Early in Absolutely on Music, a book comprised of six conversations between the acclaimed conductor Seiji Ozawa and the novelist Haruki Murakami, Ozawa talks about a small, hidden room in Carnegie Hall. In this room, the young Ozawa, then an assistant conductor of the New York Philharmonic, used to perch during rehearsals to watch and memorise Leonard Bernstein’s every move. I felt, while reading this book, as though I’d found the opening to that secret room. I could listen in on a marvellous spectacle, from a vantage point seldom allowed.
It’s an exchange long delayed: though friendly with Ozawa for years, Murakami assumed the conductor would like best to talk about anything but music, and avoided bringing it up. It wasn’t until Ozawa was diagnosed with oesophageal cancer, and his conducting activities were severely curtailed, that he and Murakami started talking seriously about Ozawa’s work. Ozawa is one of the world’s leading orchestral conductors. He was the music director of the Boston Symphony Orchestra for 29 years, and has also conducted the San Francisco Symphony, Toronto Symphony Orchestra and Vienna State Opera. Murakami is a long-term classical-music aficionado with no formal education in the discipline: he can’t, for instance, read a symphonic score.
Perhaps as a result, one of this book’s central pleasures is that of watching a kind of translation at work. With an enthusiast’s brio, Murakami sallies forth with his idiosyncratic, often fanciful ideas about Ozawa’s music. “If I may be permitted to express my personal opinion as a music lover,” he says, then posits that his recordings with the Chicago and Toronto symphony orchestras, in the 1960s, sound as if Ozawa has the music “doing a lively dance” on his palms, while recordings from the 1970s feel more as if Ozawa is cupping his hands, “enfolding the music”. In a comparison of two Ozawa-led performances of Mahler’s First Symphony, Murakami says one is “like making a leisurely tour in a chauffeur-driven Mercedes-Benz”, but that the second is “like zipping around in a sports car with a nice stick shift”.
Murakami says one performance is 'like making a leisurely tour in a chauffeur-driven Mercedes-Benz'
One can imagine such notions provoking Ozawa’s dissent, even irritation. It’s a testament to how well Murakami has listened to the music he loves that his avowals prompt the conductor to respond instead with varieties of assent. I lost track of how many times the novelist’s ideas led to Ozawa replying, “Hmm, you’re right”, or “That’s absolutely true”. “I’m enjoying talking to you about music like this because your perspective is so different from mine,” he tells Murakami. “It’s that difference that has been making it a learning experience for me, something fresh and unexpected.”
Talk, though, constitutes only part of Absolutely on Music: as Murakami notes in his introduction, Ozawa favours responses in which he gesticulates or sings. The maestro has his “own special brand of Ozawa-ese, which is not always easy to convert to standard written Japanese”, Murakami explains. Fine points of conducting are often glossed in song: a line in Mahler should be played “taa-aa-ri, rari-rari, raaa-ba”, while an oboe begins its part with “ryat-tatari-ran, ran”. A five-second clarinet section ought to be “taa-ra-ra-ra, beep and, beep and”. A conductor, Ozawa says, should come into a piece “with a big expression on his face like this – teeyantee”. Though such expositions might not always, on the page, be entirely intelligible, they’re also some of the most beguiling, straining as they do against the limits of what can be expressed in words. Walter Pater once proposed that all art aspires to the condition of music; here, even conversation strives toward song.
At one point, Ozawa says to Murakami that he has in mind as their intended audience “people who really love music”. This goal is well met, perhaps too well: for those who aren’t already devoted to classical music, the book may be of limited appeal.
On the one hand, Absolutely on Music includes intriguing passages such as Ozawa’s account of how useful he’s found it, over the years, to visit art museums: the fin de siecle paintings of Gustav Klimt and Egon Schiele have helped him to understand Mahler’s contemporaneous music. Most readers will also appreciate Ozawa’s recollections about conducting opera at Milan’s La Scala for the first time. When the performance ended, he was booed so loudly that his mother figured the boos had to be bravos. She congratulated Ozawa: “Wasn’t that wonderful? There was so much cheering for you!” There are bits of gossip – we are reminded that Glenn Gould always wore gloves and refused to shake hands with anyone. And so on.
But much of the book revolves around detailed questions of technique and performance. Time and again, Murakami plays a record for Ozawa, or multiple records, nuances of which the pair then discuss at length. There are avid chats about, for example, Herbert von Karajan’s predilection for extended musical phrases, and how horn players breathe while playing Brahms. A music lover myself, I remained captivated, but even dedicated Murakami admirers could lose interest while reading about tempo changes in the Toronto, Boston and Saito Kinen orchestras’ performances of Berlioz’s Symphonie Fantastique.
Still, Absolutely on Music is an unprecedented treasure, valuable if for no other reason than that these conversations mark the first time that Ozawa has reflected at length on his 50-plus years of conducting. “Come to think of it,” he says, “I’ve never really talked about music like this before, in such a focused, organised way.” Talking about music is like dancing about architecture, it’s often said, but what joy to watch these two friends dance.
• RO Kwon’s novel Heroics will be published by Riverhead. To order Absolutely on Music for £16.40 (£20) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
T in the Park, the huge music shindig that has been Scotland’s answer to the Reading and Leeds festivals, is to take a year off, its first break since being founded in 1994.
The organisers say the move was forced by increasing pressure from the authorities. In 2015, the festival was forced to change sites from Balado airfield to Strathallan Castle, and since that move, it has been subject to greater planning regulations.
“The constraints – logistically and financially – that the resulting planning conditions put upon us are simply not workable,” said DF Concerts.
However, it was reported yesterday that the team behind T in the Park may be planning a new festival in Glasgow Green, in conjunction with the city’s council. Scottish politicians had asked the T organisers to confirm the original festival would still go ahead, because of the financial benefits it brings to Perthshire.
“Every year, the local economy benefits from millions of pounds of income generated by the event organisers, businesses and the tens of thousands of music-lovers who attend the festival,” John Swinney MSP told the Daily Record.
“It is bitterly disappointing to find out secondhand, via reports from ‘industry insiders’ and ‘sources close to DF Concerts’ that the two events cannot run simultaneously and T in the Park may be called off,” he added. “Geoff Ellis [head of DF Concerts] now needs to make a full and urgent official statement explaining what DF Concerts’ plans are for next year and the future.”
According to the Courier newspaper, DF has said the cancellation of T is nothing to do with the potential Glasgow Green event.
For over 23 years, T in the Park has been at the heart of Scotland’s music scene – with you by our side. But for now, sadly, we need to take a break.
We launched T in the Park with one aim: to give Scottish music fans an unforgettable weekend with their friends, enjoying the best acts from around the globe. And to say we achieved this together is an understatement. T in the Park has become one of the best known, biggest and most loved festivals in the world.
When we launched back in 1994 there were only two music festivals in the UK – now there are many and T in the Park paved the way for all that have come and gone in Scotland since. We created more than just a festival; we created a family and decades of wonderful memories.
However, the last couple of years have had their challenges. Against our will, and despite a prolonged fight, we were forced to move from Balado, Kinross in 2015. This move was a mammoth task for the event and one that was compounded by a series of onerous site restrictions placed upon us as preparations for the event in 2015 took place.
As the build-up to the festival was well under way we were informed by Scottish government ministers that we would have to apply for full Planning Permission due to the presence of an unregistered, but protected in law, osprey’s nest. The constraints – logistically and financially – that the resulting planning conditions put upon us are simply not workable.
We tried our best to work with the pressures placed upon the site by bringing in an additional team and fixing the first-year traffic issues, but ultimately we’re not in control of the overall site layout and the continued restrictions means that the negative impact on our fans and the limitations placed on their experience is too great.
We now need to take stock and take a year out to try to resolve the issues so that we can once again deliver the kind of camping festival you are used to and deserve.”
It was one of the few surprises in Philip Hammond’s autumn statement: a £7.6m pledge to save what he described as one of the UK’s most important historic houses – Wentworth Woodhouse near Rotherham.
The chancellor told MPs that the Georgian residence, believed to be the largest private house in the UK, with a 23,000 sq metre (250,000 sq ft) footprint and a 185m facade, was “at critical risk of being lost to future generations”.
While hundreds of thousands of visitors flock each year to Chatsworth House, 30 miles down the road in the Peak District, Wentworth Woodhouse is South Yorkshire’s forgotten gem.
A public footpath runs along the drive, but the house has only been open to visitors in the last decade or so – though for a short period until the 1980s lucky students from Sheffield City Polytechnic (now Sheffield Hallam University) used the mansion as a campus, and after the second world war it served a ludicrously grand training college for PE teachers. (Some of the now rather elderly graduates act as tour guides.)
Earlier this year the Wentworth Woodhouse Preservation Trust (WWPT) managed to raise £7m to buy the house from its last private owners, the Newbold family, a million under the asking price. But they need many more millions to carry out urgent repairs to safeguard what Hammond called “this key piece of northern heritage”.
The group estimates it will cost £42m over the next 12 to 15 years to fully restore the property to what Marcus Binney from Save Britain’s Heritage calls “a true people’s palace”. But the £7.6m from the government will at least pay for the leaky roof to be fixed and stop the damp from completely ruining the splendid interiors.
They hope to eventually open the main interiors and gardens to the public, with the help of the National Trust. They want weddings and special events to take place in the north wing, which was once used as the Sheffield University refectory, and to create offices in the stables. Plans have also been submitted to create 15 residential units in the south wing, which would be used as holiday lets or on shorthold leases to provide an income stream for the WWPT.
Clifford Newbold, an architect who was involved in the design of Milbank Tower and Dungeness Lighthouse, had hoped to restore the palace to its Georgian splendour, but he died last year. After buying the estate for just £1.5m in 1999, his family struggled to pay the £500,000 a year it costs to keep the house ticking over.
Their financial woes were compounded when they lost a high court battle with the UK Coal Authority. They claimed over £100m damage had been caused by an opencast mine which was dug in the 250-acre estate from 1947 at the instigation of Emanuel Shinwell, minister of fuel in Clement Attlee’s Labour government – an incongruous sight regarded by Binney as “like holding the Battle of the Somme in front of the Chateau of Versailles”.
Hammond’s intervention was welcomed by Rotherham council, which had to make £117m of cuts from its budget from 2010 to 2015 because of the government’s austerity programme, with a further £48m of savings due to be made over the next three years.
John Healey, the local Labour MP, said he had lobbied Hammond to make the case for the house.
“I met the chancellor personally last month to press the case with the chair of the trust, Julie Kenny, and Conservative MP Robert Jenrick, who is a heritage expert. We’ve been meeting ministers and civil servants behind the scenes for over a year, so I’m delighted that the chancellor today recognised the scale of the challenge in saving Wentworth Woodhouse for the public and backed the huge potential boost it could bring to jobs, businesses and visitors in the north,” he said.
Wentworth Woodhouse was originally the home of Charles I’s ill-fated administrator, Thomas Wentworth, 1st Earl of Strafford, who used it for political entertaining. There were 60 family members and servants living in the house in the early 17th century, and it was later home to Charles Watson-Wentworth, a British Whig politician who served twice as prime minister.
In 1835, before she became Queen, a young Victoria stayed at Wentworth Woodhouse, which has almost 400 rooms. She was impressed, recording in her diary: “It is a very fine edifice, and is an immense house, it would be impossible for me to attempt even to give anything like a description of it.”
According to the Newbolds, in 1841 over 1,000 people were employed directly in occupations ranging from carpenters, masons, joiners and labourers to gardeners, housekeepers, servants and more unusual jobs such as rat-catcher and state bed maker.
In 1912 King George V and Queen Mary stayed at Wentworth. Seventy-six bedrooms were required for the royal visit.
Despite its regal past, Hammond’s claim to MPs that Wentworth Woodhouse also served as the inspiration for Pemberley in Jane Austen’s Pride and Prejudice has been rubbished by Austen experts.
In a statement to the Guardian, the Jane Austen Society said there is no evidence Austen ever went to the house or that a character such as Fitzwilliam Darcy could ever have afforded to live there.
• This article was amended on 25 November 2016 to correct the year given for the digging of an opencast mine and the spelling of Emanuel Shinwell’s forename.
Film4, whose recent credits include American Honey, Free Fire, as well as Oscar winners Ex Machina, 12 Years a Slave and Slumdog Millionaire, are to adapt a feminist fantasy saga for the big screen.
Maresi, published in Finland two years ago, is the opening episode in author Maria Turtschaninoff’s Red Abbey Chronicles, set in a refuge for women and girls. The titular character is a 13-year-old who fights to defend herself and her community after it comes under attack by a vengeful grieving woman.
US publication of the book is set for January, with the second instalment of the saga due to be published in Finland a year later. No date for release of the film has been given.
“I cannot say that this is a dream come true for me — it exceeds all my dreams” said Turtschaninoff. “I am so happy that Maresi is in such good hands with Film4.”
Stratford-upon-Avon is a town preserved not in amber but by language. The words of its most famous son have made this Warwickshire town a sacred spot ever since the great actor David Garrick staged a Shakespeare jubilee at Stratford in 1769. That date is significant. It’s in the very early days of the industrial revolution, when Britain had barely been modernised and many medieval as well as Tudor buildings were still in use. A world we have lost could still be found.
The Shakespeare cult took off in the 18th century, just in time to ensure that a possible connection with the playwright would help Stratford protect many of its venerable buildings and make it one of Britain’s best-preserved pre-industrial towns. This is a unique place where, instead of yet another aristocratic stately home, you can visit a 16th-century glovemaker’s house, complete with the loft where the apprentices lived and a section let out as a tough-looking pub. Oh yes, and the room where Shakespeare was probably born.
A new discovery at Stratford adds to its historic richness, and adds to Britain’s cultural debt to the name of Shakespeare. Restorers have nearly finished work on rare medieval wall paintings in the Guild Chapel in Stratford – vivid scenes that had been invisible for centuries. We apparently owe their survival not to William Shakespeare but his father John, who as town bailiff in 1563 got the job of obliterating these religious paintings that Protestants condemned as idolatrous pomp. Instead of erasing them, John Shakespeare had them carefully covered with limewash – and now they can be revealed again after 450 years.
Apparently, Shakespeare’s dad wasn’t quite the illiterate boor portrayed by Harry Enfield in Ben Elton’s sitcom Upstart Crow. But Stratford’s latest miracle of conservation makes you wonder – what about all the lost art in Britain that doesn’t have the Shakespeare name to help get a lottery grant to restore it, and a tourist industry to enhance the glamour of the local past?
It is possible to exaggerate the greatness of British art before the Reformation. Let’s not turn faded murals into Brexit boasts. The paintings in Stratford’s Guild Chapel are not “some of the finest in Europe”, as one report patriotically claims. Please. There is no evidence that medieval Britain ever produced any paintings to equal Giotto’s masterpieces in the Scrovegni chapel in Padua, Lorenzetti’s Allegory of Good and Bad Government in the Communal Palace of Siena, or Simone Martini’s Annunciation.
It’s reasonable to assume that the very best artists available were hired to decorate London’s Palace of Westminster, yet paintings that survive from this royal medieval English building are cheerily crude rather than aesthetically refined. That goes double for the freshly restored paintings in Stratford. With a cartoon skull and a monkey-like devil, these paintings are not so much great art as a wondrous window on the imaginative lives of people who lived half a millennium ago.
This is what makes Stratford special. Literary scholars love to point out how little we know about Shakespeare the man, how hard it is to link his works to the sparse biographical documents that survive. Yet paradoxically, in trying to preserve something of him in the town where he was born and died, Shakespeare fans from Garrick onwards have saved something else – a small part of the fabric of everyday life in medieval and Tudor Britain.
The paintings restored in the Guild Chapel reveal the powerful dream-world that was visible to ordinary townspeople 500 years ago. Devils and death loomed up on painted walls. Whether they were painted simply, as in Stratford, or done with the genius of a Bosch, these were collective fantasies of spectacular power.
The project that has saved Stratford’s murals deserves to be imitated wherever there are traces of medieval art still surviving in Britain. It does not matter if these images are fine art. They are something more important: a reminder of what it is to be human in a world shadowed by death and the devil.
Hi Aaron. In your new movie, Bleed for This, you play the legendary boxing trainer Kevin Rooney, and you transformed physically, right down to the fake receding hairline.
You know, so much of this job is physical. So in Bleed for This, we see that my character has gained weight, he walks on the back of his heels, and these things tell us he’s tired, depressed, pissed off. I mean, I’ve studied body language, I see what you just did, shifting your weight, one side to the other. I saw your thought.
Right. So was it a tough film to make, physically?
I have a saying: “If you’re sweating you’re doing it wrong.” You don’t need to sweat. When you sweat, you’re giving effort. And the goal is to do it with no effort. People ask me, “Why aren’t you sweating?” And I say, “Because I am making myself effortless.” (1) The physical is key. Like, I know your state of mind right now by how you’re holding your body, that tension in your chest.
Just to clarify, when you say that you don’t sweat, you mean literally?
I mean physically not getting hot. But real body language is hard to catch on camera. Like, now you have your finger at your ear. Nobody is going to let me do that on film. A producer will whisper to the director, and the director will walk over and say, “Maybe try it without the finger.” But then we rob the audience of reality. Because that finger in the ear is you telling me something. (2)
Is it harder still to capture that on the kind of big-budget blockbuster you sometimes make?
In the movie made with green screen, where the director doesn’t actually know what’s behind you? Where they say, “Oh, we’re going to have aliens?” Yes. It makes it hard to be specific. (3) And being specific is where good acting comes from. Being disciplined, too. But there’s also what I call having balls. It takes balls to be disciplined. It makes people uncomfortable.
Are you thinking of a particular incident?
There was the quintessential lashing out. I was doing a monologue I was unsure about, and I’ve got an extra who was paid to be there … he was falling asleep, and I said something (4). Because you think about the labour of so many people, and it’s like: “Can we maybe stay awake?” But anything I said was for the good of the film.
Would you handle it differently now?
Now I would say, “I need you. If you look at me like you’re listening, we can make a better movie.” I mean, I was an extra on Beverly Hills 90210, I see how extras are treated as cattle and it pains me. So if I’m working with an extra, I’ll find them at lunch and say, “Hey – you might not know it, but what you just did was awesome.”
You also play a supporting role opposite Tom Hanks in the true-story aviation drama Sully. Is there a particular skill to being the supporting actor?
This is related. In Sully, often I’m just listening, but I want Tom to know I’m completely engaged. My job is to define the hero for the audience. How do you do that? You are rivetted by him. Let’s take the ugliest, most boring guy. He’s the hero of your movie, OK? But then take a woman. The smartest, wittiest woman. And she can’t take her eyes off him. She laughs at his jokes. She dotes on him. And sexually? She cannot get enough of him. Now, what does the audience think?
She’s got low self-esteem?
No! We’ve turned a toad into a prince! And that is the task of the supporting actor. Tom is no toad, but that’s the job in Sully. It’s the same with Miles [Teller] in Bleed for This. (5)
Teller made his first movie, Rabbit Hole, with you in 2010. Do you feel paternal towards him?
I do. I’m constantly talking to him about mistakes I made, because I want him to do well. I don’t want him to fall into the traps I fell into.
As in movies or life choices?
Both. In this business, with the fame and money, there are traps. You can start believing things about yourself that won’t do you any good. And there are conversations nobody had with me that I wish they had. So, on Sully, I took the chance to ask Tom – top pro – how he handles certain things. Because if you get those things wrong, it damages a career.
You sound a bit rueful.
I’m 48. For 20 years I’ve made mistakes, and recovered from mistakes. I’ve asked myself tough questions. It goes back to balls. I’ve just tried to be a better person, and not take everything so seriously. Because I’m very sensitive. (6)
Bleed for This and Sully are released in the UK on 2 December.
1. There was much more about not sweating.
2. Itchy ear.
3. We both knew he was talking about Battlefield Los Angeles.
4. Then came a deep, sad sigh.
5. Teller plays boxer Vinny Pazienza.
6. If I was less emotionally stunted, honestly, we might have hugged.
Moana, Disney’s new animation, is set to dominate the US box office over the Thanksgiving holiday. The film, which features the voices of Dwayne Johnson and newcomer Auli’i Cravalho, with music by Hamilton’s Lin-Manuel Miranda, is predicted to take $88m (£70.6m) over the five-day period, with some pundits suggesting it might top Frozen’s 2013 $93.4m total.
The Polynesia-set animated film is the studio’s third critically-acclaimed cartoon to be released in 2016, following Finding Dory and Zootropolis, both of which made more than $1bn.
Other new openers vying for holiday period trade include the Brad Pitt/Marion Cottilard spy thriller Allied, Billy Bob Thornton returning with Bad Santa 2 and Warren Beatty’s screwball Howard Hughes movie Rules Don’t Apply. The first two are tracking well, reports Variety, but the third is not expected to make a substantial profit.
Also hoping to increase its coffers is Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, Warner Brothers’ extension of the Harry Potter universe, which topped the US box office on its first week of release, but did markedly less well in North America than the rest of the world.
Doctor Strange and Trolls continue to be fixtures in the Top 10.
Exile and renewal were the themes of James Gaffigan’s concert with the BBC Symphony Orchestra, which focused on Weill and Korngold, composers uprooted from 1930s Europe who went on to forge successful careers in the US. Brecht and Weill’s The Seven Deadly Sins was the main work, and the evening will surely be remembered for a devastating performance by US singer-songwriter-actor Storm Large as Anna, the role Weill wrote for his wife Lotte Lenya.
Anna loses her humanity in pursuit of the American dream. Brecht and Weill originally split their heroine in two, casting Lenya as the increasingly embittered realist, while an actor-dancer portrayed her idealistic sister. Large, however, encapsulated both sides of this divided figure throughout. She has a remarkable ability to convey venality and vulnerability in equal measure, and to suggest obscenity and heartbreak simultaneously. Gaffigan got the mix of sleaze and sardonic humour absolutely right, while US vocal quartet Hudson Shad were outstanding as Anna’s money-grabbing family.
The rest of the concert, however, was less compelling. Hudson Shad delivered songs by Weill and his fellow emigres, Walter Jurmann and Dimitri Tiomkin, with exquisite lightness and wit. But Gaffigan didn’t quite make the case for Korngold’s 1952 symphony in F sharp. No amount of insight or virtuosity – the playing was excellent – can disguise the lack of inspiration in the finale. The first movement, however, was admirably stark, and the big central adagio heartfelt and lyrical.
‘This is a wonderful nightmare,” said Hugh Masekela, as he looked out at the Ronnie Scott’s crowd, “because nothing has changed.” He first played here in the 80s, when he bravely insisted on a smoking ban. These days he concentrates on concert halls and festivals, so watching South Africa’s most celebrated musician return to this intimate venue 16 years after he last played here was a rare treat.
At 77, Masekela still likes to surprise. The set contained no songs from his forthcoming album No Borders; instead he concentrated on reworking old favourites. Chileshe now began with a gently slinky township riff from his five-piece band, against which he demonstrated first his flugelhorn work and then his even more thrilling and versatile vocals. When he moved on to Market Place, he switched from lyrical passages to bursts of rapid-fire scat in which he traded phrases with his remarkable guitarist Cameron John Ward.
Then came a thrilling treatment of Stimela, his pained lament for migrant workers, treated with train noises and other vocal effects, and a rousing, theatrical reworking of Fela Kuti’s Lady that switched from Afrobeat to a rock guitar workout. There were no lectures about the state of the world or South Africa, but the finale was a reminder of earlier, more optimistic days, with a treatment of his Mandela tribute Bring Him Back Home that had the audience on their feet. It was a memorable return.
When Ibsen’s Ghosts was first produced in London in 1891, it was dismissed by one critic as “an open drain, a loathsome sore unbandaged, a dirty act done publicly”. The festering atmosphere of Polly Findlay’s revival, using an updated version by David Watson, suggests the early reviewer got it just about right; though now we might use the same terms in glowing approbation.
You wonder, for instance, what could be a more insidious example of a dirty deed done in public than Mrs Alving’s plan to expunge the sins of her dissolute husband by funding an orphanage. More than once you’re forced to consider what kind of children’s home could possibly be established in the late Captain Alving’s honour. The foul-mouthed carpenter Engstand threatens his daughter Regine with the prospect of: “That kiddies’ home … She’ll [Mrs Alving] bung you in there with those pikey little … before you can say bon-fucking-jour.”
The problem with presenting Ghosts in this fashion is that the groundbreaking content (extra-marital sex, addiction, euthanasia) can begin to appear like the commonplaces of soap opera. William Travis’s leery Engstrand and Norah Lopez Holden’s chippy Regine hurl insults at one another in a raw Mancunian rasp that sometimes makes it feel as though the action is located in the only fjord in range of Weatherfield. There’s a certain cognitive dissonance about this community being so obsequiously beholden to a local pastor; not to mention Oswald being able to procure tablets to hasten his demise, though apparently not a course of penicillin to treat his symptoms in the first place.
Findlay, however, circumvents these issues by framing the action with a form of naturalism so intense it becomes almost unnatural. The everyday slovenliness of Johannes Schütz’s set suggests the chaos of a distempered mind, though Franz Peter David’s lighting casts a lurid glow on an upstage set of crystalware. There’s a remarkable frisson as Ken Nwosu’s languorous Oswald idly runs a finger around the rim of his wine glass, creating an eerie reverberation that seems to summon the phantoms of past sins to the table.
Nwosu is quietly heartbreaking in the role of the doomed artist, though it is hard to be sure if his soothing description of his diagnosis – “cherry red velvet, it made me think of, draped all over me” – is a palliative lie or a conditioned response instilled by Lutheran sermons on easeful death. One certainly would not wish to entrust the stewardship of one’s soul to Jamie Ballard’s pallid Pastor Manders, whose rejection of Niamh Cusack’s Helen Alving in her hour of need seems particularly spineless.
Cusack gives an exceptional performance as a woman rapidly unravelling under the burden of her life. Ibsen’s play is indeed an open drain; though it takes an actor of Cusack’s calibre to plumb the depths.
• At Home, Manchester, until 3 December. Box office: 0161-200 1500.


Irenosen Okojie’s debut novel, Butterfly Fish, was published last year, winning a Betty Trask award. The story moves between 1970s London and 19th-century Benin in a multigenerational tale that uncovers family secrets and reimagines Yoruba royal history. Noted for its magic realism, it is actually more indebted to the traditions of Nigerian storytelling that weave together the real, fantastical, fabular and spiritual, exemplified by Ben Okri’s  1991 novel The Famished Road.
With Speak Gigantular, her first short-story collection, Okojie continues her fictional forays into the surreal. “Animal Parts” is set in a Danish town. A single mother refuses to do anything about her small son’s growing tail; she loves him as he is. But the town turns against them, the mother’s mental health deteriorates and she carries out terrible acts of violence. Okojie shows how the pernicious pressures of community conformity can drive outsiders to despair.
Allegory runs through most of these tales, conveying deeper meanings and truths. “Fractures” features identical twins, Grace and Hilly, who suffer a childhood kidnapping related to their father’s debts. Hilly is sexually assaulted. Unable to forgive her father and Grace, who escaped the abuse, she is steeped in bitterness. Sometimes she assumes Grace’s identity, and in this way she meets up with her sister’s date, who seems normal enough. But he tricks her into entering a supposed art installation capsule in Brixton and, once inside, he morphs into a personification of her inner demons. She breaks down, releasing the pain she has repressed all her adult life. But it’s too late: as the capsule flies out over the city, she realises what she has lost.
Okojie delves into the painful, the unsayable, the unknowable. Her prose is precise and illuminating
Okojie delves into the painful, the unsayable, the unknowable. Her prose is precise and illuminating: love and loneliness are recurrent themes. “Footer” is about a woman whose solitariness is anthropomorphised into a pet she calls Loneliness. “It watched her from her sky blue Ikea sofa. It was three months old, had a green head, blank human eyes and a crocodile’s tail.” The creature, it appears, drives her to have sex with the foot fetishists she finds on a dating website. Graphically erotic, this is funny, until it goes horribly wrong. The only predictable thing about these stories is that they are totally unpredictable. Many of them end with a dark twist.
Not all of the tales justify their extraordinary subject matter and the high drama of their finales. In “Outtakes”, Desi goes on a prearranged holiday with her ex-boyfriend, Balthazar. They argue again and, curiously, Desi begins to see a second, more sinister Balthazar materialising: a doppelganger who is covered in “pulsing, bloodied hearts”. This time the shock value of the tragic ending doesn’t feel fully earned.
A few of the stories are more realist. “Gunk” is a diatribe in which a mother excoriates her reclusive, depressed son in an attempt to galvanise him into action. She tells him, “Stop trembling in the fucking corner. Don’t pick up that medicine. They numb you, sedate you, curtail your potential.” Her love and despair are charged with an oratory that rages fiercely. “Darkness motivates men, mobilises armies. You are a warrior. Show me your roar.” These stories certainly roar.
• Bernardine Evaristo’s Mr Loverman is published by Hamish Hamilton. Speak Gigantular is published by Jacaranda. To order a copy for £7.37 (RRP £8.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846.
Here is this week’s playlist – songs picked by a reader from your suggestions after last week’s callout. Thanks for them all. Read more about how our weekly readers recommend series works at the end of the piece.
Accordions are everywhere. From Odessa in Ukraine to Odessa in Texas, from Mombasa to Mumbai, you’ll hear them on street corners and in concert halls. Our first extra terrestrial contact will probably be with a little green man playing Bobby Shafto’ on a squeezebox.
I thought selecting this playlist would be relatively easy, a piece of cake: I’d just pick the accordion-based songs and tunes I’ve known and loved and that I’d have nominated myself had I not been in the chair. What could be the problem? People were bound to nominate them – I’d only have to put them into a pleasing running order and write a few words about them.
It turned out to be a lot more difficult than that. Some of my prospective choices did turn up; some songs turned up but with different singers. But all in all, not that many. What I did get was a tumultuous variety. A bit of Havana here, a bit of Kinshasa there. And it set me thinking.
Readers recommend is like a great big cooking pot, and each week we come along with our carefully hand-picked ingredients and put them on the table, and then the chef de jour will take their pick from the wonderful selection of produce and skilfully create an aural dish to set before the connoisseurs.
List of ingredients:
Les Negresses Vertes: Zobi La MoucheBeirut: Scenic WorldFlaco Jiménez and Linda Ronstadt: El PuenteThe Pogues: A Pair of Brown EyesKD Lang: Constant CravingGotan Project: Vuelvo al SurKate & Anna McGarrigle: Swimming SongPaul Simon: The Boy in the BubbleThe Kinks: AlcoholMolotov Jukebox: Get ReadyKevin Coyne: Are We Dreaming?
Into the pot let’s throw two cups of chopped Zobi La Mouche and fry gently until soft – this will bring a robust and strident flavour to the dish, French, but with a North African twist. Bring to the boil and then add one and a half litres of Beach Boys – this will add California sunshine freshness and give the dish its depth. Next, add a couple of handfuls of Johnnie Allan’s Promised Land – a tangy Cajun variety of Chuck Berry’s succulent original delicacy, but no less flavoursome. Give a good stir and cover. While it’s bubbling away, chop up equal amounts – about a handful of each – of Beirut and Jiménez, blend in some Pogues (be sparing with the Pogues, a little goes a long way) and add to the pot. Season with a good dollop of KD Lang and return to a low heat.
In another pan, heat some Gotan Project and add the McGarrigles – a holy trinity of banjo, fiddle and accordion. Saute for five minutes and add the Boy in the Bubble and the Alcohol and reduce until it’s about half its original content. Transfer contents of both pans into an ovenproof dish and cover. Cook in a low oven for 1-2 hours. Remove from oven, sprinkle liberally with some grated Molotov Jukebox and serve with a nice bottle of Kevin Coyne.
Bon appétit.
The new theme will be announced at 8pm (GMT) on Thursday 24 November. You have until 11pm on 28 November to submit nominations.
Here’s a reminder of some of the guidelines for RR:
By his own admission, director Andrew Dominik’s relationship with Nick Cave did not get off to an auspicious start. It was the late 80s and Dominik was a film student, whose new girlfriend had broken up with Cave “about three months beforehand”. To compound matters, shortly after they began going out, Cave released a single bearing the woman’s name: Deanna, which depicts Cave ejaculating over her clothes and then enticing her to join him in a murder spree inspired by 50s teenage serial killer Charlie Starkweather. “Yeah, it was kind of intimidating,” Dominik says today, over Skype from his LA home. “I was 20 years old or something, and Nick Cave was like the dark prince of Melbourne. I wasn’t predisposed to being a Nick Cave fan, but he’s really good and I reluctantly became one.”
Furthermore, the pair also became friends, then collaborators. First, Cave wrote a song for Dominik’s first feature film, Chopper, which was not used, then Dominik offered him a small part in 2007’s The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford, and Cave “asked me whether he could do the music as well, and I just felt kind of put on the spot and didn’t know how to say no, which turned out to be a great decision.”
Dominik says he was part of “the basic rallying round” for Cave and his wife Susie Bick after their 15-year-old son, Arthur, died following a fall from a cliff in Ovingdean Gap, East Sussex, in 2015. He was surprised when Cave suggested he make a documentary about the completion of Skeleton Tree, the album Cave and the Bad Seeds had begun making before Arthur’s death. However, “without hesitating” he agreed to the idea, despite not really knowing what Cave wanted, beyond coming up with something that would enable him to avoid doing press for the album and thus having to answer a succession of journalists’ questions about his late son.
I wanted to be around him; I was worried about them and it was an opportunity to kind of do something
“The primary thing that everybody feels in a situation like that is helplessness, and for him to ask me to do something was sort of a way for me to help,” says Dominik. “It wasn’t your usual motives for making a film; it wasn’t: ‘We’re going to make a work of art.’ There were a lot of things about the circumstances of the film that I wouldn’t usually get involved with, like (a) we don’t really know what the film is, and (b) I don’t have control over the final cut of the movie; that was down to Nick. But I was looking at it as trying to help him out, I wanted to be around him, I was worried about them and it was an opportunity to kind of do something.”
Nevertheless, One More Time With Feeling emerged as one of the most compelling, acclaimed documentaries of recent years; a film that is, in its depiction of loss and grief, simultaneously visually sumptuous and almost unbearably stark. The sumptuousness comes from Dominik’s idea to shoot in black and white and 3D, inspired by his collection of stereoscopic photographs (“The basic idea was that the 3D was involving and the black and white is distancing and it gives you a way to kind of see the world with new eyes”), while the actual nature of the film shifted and changed as it was shot. It began life as straightforward footage of the Bad Seeds recording overdubs and performing the songs from Skeleton Tree; expanded to include an impressionistic, improvised voiceover from Cave that, as Dominik puts it, “gives you a sense of what was going on in his internal world, while the world’s going on around him, this kind of maelstrom of confusion and pain, but also a gratitude for the people around him”; then finally encompassed the frank, harrowing interviews with Cave and Bick that appear in the final part of the film.
“I did feel like I was intruding at times,” says Dominik. “There’s no two ways around it. I was intruding … but he comes up, you know, Arthur comes up. If you run a camera for long enough, Arthur comes up and that’s what I did: I just ran the camera. I mean, there were times where I would try to get them to talk about it, and those moments always backfired. You’ve got to allow them to approach the subject. You can’t sort of hammer them with it. And as soon as you do … they physically start to shake; you can literally see the amount of distress that it causes them when it’s sort of foisted upon them. And those moments, for me, they didn’t feel right. My criteria for including stuff about Arthur was whether they had something to say about the process of grieving, as opposed to just displays of emotion. I mean, every time they talk about it, I think they give you some insight into what grieving is like, and from that point of view, it manages to avoid being, you know, grief porn.”
The film’s shattering conclusion, which features Arthur Cave singing a song he had co-written with his father and brother, was in part suggested by his parents. “Susie sent it to me on the first Mother’s Day after Arthur died. She said that she hadn’t actually been able to listen to it herself and she hadn’t told Nick she was sending it to me. Then, it’s a really weird thing, about three months later, Nick sends me the same song. So I got the sense they wanted it in the film. We tried it in various spots in the film, but it worked at the end, kind of as a way of giving Arthur the last word. I think that Susie, out of all of us, was the one that saw the film could serve as a kind of memorial for Arthur. You can hear him in the song, he’s completely unselfconscious: he used to make films, he was really into magic, he had more front than a barn. He was the kind of person that I’m sure we would have heard more from in life. And I think Susie felt on that basis that Arthur would not have disapproved of the film. I mean, it’s one thing to hear about Nick Cave’s son, it’s another to really get a sense of him. It’s not some abstract concept. He was a person.”
Nick was concerned about certain things. Does the film exploit the situation? Does the film diminish the situation?
He felt he had to warn Cave and his wife about the use of the song, when it came to showing them the film. Dominik says he was terrified, more terrified even than when he showed Chopper to the man it was based on: no small boast given that the man Chopper was based on claimed to be involved in the killing of 19 people and was famed for divesting his victims of their toes with a blowtorch. “Nick was very concerned about certain things. Does the film exploit the situation? Does the film somehow diminish the situation? So they came in and they sat and watched it, and it was fucking terrifying, just imagining how they would react to it. And they came out, and Nick was happy, but he didn’t like the last third of the movie; he hated all the interview stuff, he didn’t think it was moving, he thought it was just some guy waffling. And Susie hated all the stuff with her. But Susie liked Nick and Nick liked Susie, right? So they decided to show it to Warren [Ellis, Cave’s main musical foil in the Bad Seeds], and he said: ‘No, you’re both wrong, it’s all good.’” Eventually, Cave decided to relinquish authorial control over the film. “He decided he couldn’t, if I was going to have to go out and take responsibility for it. I mean, the whole idea of making the movie was so that he didn’t have to answer questions like these ones again; so I had to ask them, and therefore he let me release the film that I wanted to release.”
Dominik is justifiably proud of the end result: he talks about how he thinks the experience of making it might influence his approach to feature films in future, how making a film without really knowing what he was supposed to be doing, or where it was heading, has taught him that “if you’re focused, you can rely on your instincts”. And he thinks it had a positive effect on the Cave family, too. One thing that Cave objected to before relinquishing control was the film’s use of footage of the cliff where his son died; Dominik chose to include it after visiting the spot on the day of Arthur’s funeral, and noting that not only had someone painted a picture of an angel on the footpath where the teenager had fallen, but that “when you stood at the top of the cliff and looked out, it was this beautiful view of the sea and the sky, something that suggested eternity, or continuum, or perhaps the insignificance of us all. I wanted to use it as a beautiful thing, as opposed to a horrible thing.”
Cave, understandably, disagreed. “He hated it,” says Dominik. “He has to drive past it, sometimes four times a day, because his studio is on the other side of town. He said he gets a feeling, like a constriction in his gut, every time he does. And Susie was unconsciously speeding up every time she drove by it; she didn’t even know she was doing it, but she got caught on the speed cameras, she actually got fined. But he said that, since the film came out, he drives past there and he gets a kind of warm feeling. I think that’s kind of beautiful, that the movie could have changed his associations.”
One More Time With Feeling is in cinemas on 1 December; Skeleton Tree is out now
Here’s a gothic tale for a stormy night: a man called Meredith converts a room in his house into a cluttered and untidy study, and one day asks a visiting friend if he can see anything strange on the ceiling.
“Don’t you see it?” he said. “See what?” “The – thing. The woman.” I shook my head and looked at him.“All right then,” he said abruptly. “Don’t see it!”
This is the beginning of a newly discovered HG Wells ghost story, called The Haunted Ceiling, a macabre tale found in an archive that Wells scholars say they have never seen before. It will be published for the first time this week, in the Strand magazine.
The story was discovered when Andrew Gulli, editor of the Strand, heard that the University of Illinois held a substantial archive of Wells’s works. He promptly hired an assistant to photocopy hundreds of manuscripts and sorted through them to see if he could find something new.
“Initially, from the titles of the manuscripts, I thought I happened upon lots of unpublished works, but those thousands of pages were narrowed down to this delightful story,” Gulli told the Guardian.
He called it “a vintage Wells story – you have a supernatural event, characters with two schools of thought on the event, [and] the literary type versus the scientist. This reminds me of his story The Red Room, but we have a more of a twist with The Haunted Ceiling.”
Wells scholars have dated the story to the mid-1890s, when the author was about 30. This would mean that he wrote The Haunted Ceiling around the same time he produced his more famous ghost tale, The Red Room, which depicts a sceptic’s terrifying night attempting to discredit claims a castle room is haunted.
While most famous for science fiction books like The Time Machine and The War of the Worlds, Wells frequently wrote gothic tales about doubters confronted with supernatural events, often leading to ambiguous and haunting endings. Stories like The Story of the Inexperienced Ghost, in which a man relates an occult encounter, then becomes more agitated until he collapses and dies. The narrator observes: “Whether he did indeed pass there by that poor ghost’s incantation, or whether he was stricken suddenly by apoplexy in the midst of an idle tale – as the coroner’s jury would have us believe – is no matter for my judging.”
The Haunted Ceiling is so obscure that two Wells scholars, Patrick Parrinder and Michael Sherborne, told Associated Press that they had never seen it before. Comparing the style and content to other Wells stories, they dated it to around 1895: a time when ghost stories were popular and Wells was both prolific and strapped for cash.
“So the puzzle is, why was this one either never sold, or if sold never published?” asked Parrinder, while Sherborne called it “not one of Wells’s very best stories, but it is a skilfully assembled anecdote which would, I think, be very effective as a self-contained magazine item.”
Gulli added: “The reason we released it now is to keep up the tradition of having ghost stories read during the cold months and during the holiday. There is something very cosy about it: the old house, the main characters playing chess and discussing this odd ceiling, but at the same time you have something very macabre and unsettling.”
“Meet the 17-Year-Old Indonesian Rapper Who Hacked the World.” So reads the headline of a recent Time magazine interview with a teenager who was born, bred and still lives in Jakarta, and who – most of the time – goes by the unassuming name of Brian Imanuel.
His alias, Rich Chigga, has proved a little more controversial – but few people are arguing about the talent of this home-schooled, super-smart “viral online comedian and hip-hop icon”.
Imanuel’s breakthrough track, Dat $tick (watch out for the F-words; there are many), has attracted more than 25 million views and plaudits from some of rap’s royalty – including “elder statesman” Ghostface Killah, formerly of the Wu-Tang Clan, who paid the ultimate respect by issuing his own remix of Dat $tick (more F-words) last month.
Imanuel was born in 1999 – a year after the fall of Indonesia’s longtime dictator Suharto. When Time calls him one of the two most recognised Indonesians overseas (along with Joey Alexander, a 13-year-old, Grammy-nominated jazz pianist from Bali who now lives in the US) – you realise how fast the world is changing around here.
So the first thing Guardian Cities did when we arrived in Jakarta was get in touch with its new hip-hop icon, to ask him about life in his home city ...
In the megacities we visit around the world, hip-hop is often a powerful tool for young people trying to change their city. Is that true in Jakarta too?
“Since hip-hop is still a very small and underground thing in Indonesia, I can’t say anything yet. It’s definitely starting to grow though. I recently met a group of kids in the south that are into the same stuff I’m into, which is surprising. But you can count those people by hand.”
Where did you grow up in Jakarta? How has the city changed since then?
“I grew up in West Jakarta, in a middle-to-low-class neighbourhood. It hasn’t changed at all since I was a kid, and nor has the city – other than it’s got way more dirty, haha!”
Has being home schooled given you an advantage in life? Is there anything you missed out on growing up?
“When I found out my parents wanted to home school me, I was so bummed out. I missed all my friends. But now I realise that if I wasn’t home schooled, I’d be the lamest kid ever – I wouldn’t have been able to speak English, for a start.
“I don’t think I missed out on anything, not even a social life. You have no idea how many friends I met on the internet.”
Humour is a key element of your work. Where does your sense of humour come from?
“It came from me being alone at home almost every day as a kid, looking for things to laugh at. My influences are a wide variety: from Dave Chappelle stand-up comedy specials on Youtube, to watching chick-flick comedy movies, to scrolling through stuff people say on the internet.”
You say Indonesian people don’t get satire. What is it about the culture that stops that – and why are you so driven to subvert it?
“I don’t know what happened to it – we used to have such a good sense of humour in the 1990s and early 2000s. But then something happened and it just turned to shit. As for why I want to subvert everything: good question man. I guess I’m just tired of people not getting my jokes.”
Are you now a spokesman for Indonesia’s younger generation? Does that responsibility scare you at all?
“I wouldn’t really call myself a spokesman for anything. All I wanna do is inspire young people everywhere – not just Indonesia. But no, it does not scare me because this is what I signed up for.”
Are there any subjects you won’t go near with your lyrics?
“I don’t rap about drugs – other than in Who That Be, when I said ‘I don’t smoke no gas and I don’t pop no xans.’”
What makes you most angry about Jakarta?
“The lack of sex education. People don’t know condoms exist; that’s why you see these people having three kids and not able to financially support them. And do you see all the cars on these trafficky streets here? Like, stop creating people, please.”
… and what do you love about it?
“The malls, that’s the main go to place here. They’re so grand and fancy: as soon as you step in one, you smell the rich international schoolkid ignorance. It’s a vibe you don’t get anywhere. I love it.”
Do you want to stay here?
“I’m good in Jakarta for now, because that’s where my family is.”
Finally, give us one top tip for what to do while we’re here.
“Go to one of the street vendors that sell fried food here. They have this crazy trick to keep the food crispy, which is putting a plastic bag in the scorching hot oil. If you’re into eating destroyed plastic bags, that’s where it’s at …”
If you live or work in Jakarta, we’d love to hear from you. Share your ideas, thoughts, stories and pictures here. You can also contribute on Twitter andInstagramusing the hashtag #GuardianJakarta
Thank goodness it’s panto season. After the year it’s been, we could all use alaugh. Panto provides a cathartic end-of-year clearout: 2016 – it’s behind you.
As an art form, however, pantomime isn’t exactly of the moment. Some are more cutting edge than others, but panto is, by its very nature, old school entertainment. It’s often bossed by old hands – and, naturally, old hams. In York, local grandee Berwick Kaler is closing in on 40 years in the dame’s frock, while Nottingham’s Kenneth Alan Taylor has half a century under his belt. Each theatre’s annual affair is an institution of its own.
“You only really get to know pantomime by doing it,” says Susie McKenna. Having played her first principal boy at 19 (Dick Whittington for Colchester Mercury), she’s helmed Hackney Empire’s annual knees-up for the last 18 years, building its reputation as one of London’s best. “There’s nothing else like it,” she stresses. “You’ve got to learn on the job.”
But where does that leave the new blood? Ellen McDougall, a pantomime newbie, had her first foray into the art form last year with Cinderella at the Lyric Hammersmith in London and is back there this winter with Aladdin. It was, she says, a leap in the dark: “When I first said yes, I thought, ‘I have no idea how to do that or what it’s going to involve’. I wanted to learn something new.”
McDougall came to panto having worked in children’s theatre, such as the Unicorn’s bold Henry the Fifth. She figured she’d apply the same logic of direct contact with a panto audience but, she says: “This was a different thing altogether.” McKenna jumps in: “With panto, you’ve got an audience aged five to 95, and you’ve got to keep them all interested. That’s why it’s so special. We don’t even watch television as a family any more, so the fact you can get grannies and kids all watching the same thing together – that’s the challenge and the joy.”
McDougall is one of the most exciting young directors in the UK with a flair for formal experimentation. Next year, she will become the artistic director of the innovative Gate theatre in London. What’s a director like her doing in panto?
The fact you can get grannies and kids all watching the same thing together – that’s the challenge and the joy
“People feel as if it’s very different to other types of theatre, but for me it’s also the same,” she says. “You’re telling the story clearly and keeping the stakes high, but it’s a conversation with the audience. In a panto, you’re always yourself – an actor and a character at the same time. That’s influenced the way I’ve worked in shows since.”
It is, in other words, a careful balancing act – as self aware and meta-theatrical as some of the most cutting-edge theatre. “There’s still a snobbery, and there shouldn’t be,” McKenna insists. “You know what? It’s very hard to do.”
And not just hard, but important – which is arguably more important than ever. Panto is an introduction to the art form – “the first time kids, even some adults, come to the theatre,” says McKenna. Bore them, and you can put them off theatre for good. Hook ’em in, and you start a habit.
It’s also a chance to replenish the coffers. Two decades after McKenna proposed an in-house panto, Hackney’s one accounts for 40% of the Empire’s annual income. “It becomes the thing that pays for Pinter,” she says. So if the festive show has to pull in the punters, entrusting it to a rookie is no small matter.
Panto is an intrinsic part of this country’s heritage – “quintessentially British,” says McDougall. “It’s part of our cultural DNA.” Directors are handling something much bigger than a single show. They’re upholding traditions that run deep. Its origins date as far back as the middle ages.
McDougall researched its history to better understand its workings, reading up on its music hall roots, but the form has something akin to an oral tradition, too; a practical lineage passed from dame to dame, director to director. McDougall sat down with the Lyric’s artistic director Sean Holmes, who had in turn sought advice from McKenna. Her guru? Kenneth Alan Taylor. “He passed a lot of things on in terms of its importance and structure.”
In a sense, pantos are still being passed on; the same stories and the same routines. “There’s a recipe,” says McDougall. “You’re not reinventing the wheel each time. You’re just decorating it with the things that work for that year.”
It is, they agree, a huge undertaking. “You’re basically making a new musical each year,” says McDougall. Rehearsed in three weeks, teched in three days, the panto machine has a lot of cogs: scenes, routines, choreography plus all the bells and whistles, magic and dry ice. “You’re using all the tricks you can,” says McKenna. McDougall nods: “It’s another level of difficult than I’ve experienced before. So many elements have to come together.”
Not least the audience. “They’re the last member of your cast,” McKenna stresses. “If you ignore them for a second, they back off for good.”
That, McDougall believes, is where experience comes in. “You discover, when you first go on stage, who’s got the muscle to survive heckling and all of that.” Second time around, she’s given her actors training, bringing disruptive audiences – schoolkids and theatre staff – into the rehearsal room.
It’s audiences that keep the form fresh. Panto has to play to the people in the room and, as they change, so must the art form. Out of that, new local traditions emerge – Hammersmith’s has its own anthem – but so do new cultural influences. McKenna used diverse casting in the 90s – revelatory at a time when, as she says, “the only black actors in panto were token baddies” – but she’s increasingly seeking to mix in other references. “Our audience is made up of every demographic and every culture going, so it’s imperative that their panto is inclusive and diverse.”
In that sense, panto might be the best possible riposte to Brexit: British to its core, but also a multicultural melting pot. The key is to keep pushing it forwards, as McKenna insists: “Don’t leave it stuck in the 50s, for Christ’s sake. Bring it up to date.”
Video games have always had an uneasy relationship with war. Using it as a setting is a shortcut to explosive action and easy-to-understand heroes and villains. Yet the fact that it’s also the source of death and trauma to millions in the real world makes it an issue that needs to be tackled with a degree of thought and sensitivity, two things for which the games industry is not always known. As games get increasingly realistic and emotionally involving, it’s harder to make excuses for their occasionally gauche attempts at representing human conflict.
This Christmas’s three biggest triple-A blockbusters are united in their desire to tell stories of internecine warfare, even if they can’t quite agree on whether to whoop it up or get all Siegfried Sassoon. Battlefield 1 (PS4, Xbox One, PC) takes the latter approach in its depiction of the first world war. Told through a series of short, disparate stories, from a tank crew in occupied France to a cheeky American pilot conning his way into the RAF, it shows the incredible fortitude of its combatants against odds that were frequently absolutely overwhelming. You get the tiniest hint of a sense, from living through a variety of roles across several countries, of the scale of a conflict fought on multiple fronts by countless men, each with their own tragic and sometimes pitilessly brief story. Despite the intensity of its action, it’s a more sombre experience than the triumphal heroics that used to be standard issue in military first-person shooters.
Battlefield 1’s sobriety stands alone in the year’s treatment of interactive armed struggle.
Call Of Duty: Infinite Warfare (PS4, Xbox One, PC) sets its conflict in the future, safe in the knowledge that no memories are being trampled in its more gung-ho approach, which sees your hero fighting his way up from Earth to its planetary colonies in pursuit of rebels who are painted as utterly unsympathetic and totally evil. For VR headset-owning fans of its space missions there’s also a free single-level spin-off, Jackal Assault (PSVR, Oculus Rift, Vive), which gives you a disappointing turn in one of the game’s starfighters for a touch of flimsy-feeling virtual-reality space combat, the sense of speed and destruction somehow muted as you blow up oddly stick-like enemy fighters.
The last part of the war trifecta, Titanfall 2 (PS4, Xbox One, PC), sets itself in an even more distant future, in which humans fight in and alongside robotic, house-sized walking tanks called titans. The single-player campaign does a bang-up job of imbuing your enormous bipedal buddy with personality: a faltering attempt at returning your thumbs-up is a moment of particular poignancy, as it struggles to understand the complexity of human emotions. Not that you have much time for navel-gazing, with missions demanding the gamut of you and your giant robot’s powers. It may not have much to say about war but, of the three games, Titanfall 2’s single-player campaign is easily the most inventive, and its multiplayer turns out to be the most interesting, too; the rhythm of alternating between playing as a fragile human before taking to your hulking metal behemoth, adding a welcome twist to a genre that’s grown all too familiar.
This year’s pre-Christmas buildup wouldn’t be complete without new consumer durables, and following last month’s hugely compelling PlayStation VR headset, Sony has rolled out PlayStation 4 Pro (£349), a more powerful version of PS4 that outputs Ultra HD, letting owners of 4K TVs finally have something good to do with them. Although not all games get an upgrade, Skyrim: Special Edition, Hitman, Titanfall 2 and numerous others have already received a noticeable graphical enhancement, and those with PlayStation VR will find many of its games looking crisper and more solid. They’ll also find a delightful antidote to Christmas 2016’s pan-historical bloodletting in Tethered (PSVR), a real-time puzzle game made in Britain. In it, you help small, furry creatures build and defend villages constructed on beautiful islands floating in the sky, while enjoying the kind of pastoral charm only previously available in Nintendo’s Pikmin series. It’s trickier than it looks, and its offbeat style is typified by the fact that to heal your tiny charges after they’ve taken a beating, you build a pub rather than a hospital. Its message is clear: make beer, not war.
The Riviera Set follows the lives, loves, and larks of the American actor Maxine Elliott, who infiltrated the British upper classes and from there the creme de la Eurotrash. She built the Château de l’Horizon on the French Riviera, where such people as Winston Churchill, Noël Coward and the former Edward VIII hung out. Following Elliott’s death in 1940, the focus of Lovell’s story shifts to the next owner of the house, Aly Khan, the playboy son of the Aga Khan, whose womanising and partying led his father to disinherit him by leaving his title to Aly’s son Karim. (Khan did inherit his father’s wealth.)
The house itself, a pile of art deco sugar cubes that manages to be at once Romanesque and Moorish, was built in 1932 by the US architect Barry Dierks, and provided “a secluded backdrop … for an indulgent, glamorous, even decadent lifestyle which is arguably unsurpassed, and where one guest thought nothing of filling a bath” with the contents of “dozens of bottles of iced champagne to refresh her aching feet after an evening’s dancing in Cannes”.
It was the kind of estate where you might encounter Churchill swimming laps, or the interior designer Elsie de Wolfe getting bitten by Elliott’s monkey while doing her daily headstand. When Rita Hayworth married Aly Khan there, 10 gallons of eau de cologne were emptied into the pool, “filling the air with exquisite fragrance”. The bride cut the wedding cake with the groom’s ceremonial sword.
And yet in spite of these details the book reads less like a delightful portrait of high society at play, and more like an extended society column, lacking even the affectless intrigue of an episode of Made in Chelsea. Although Lovell goes after Elliott’s and Khan’s stories with enthusiasm and empathy, it’s never clear why they are worth reading about. She seems interested only in establishing that the house became a symbol of the wealth and success epitomised by the Riviera. Yes, and …?
After the war, while the locals struggled to survive, the chateau's food bill ran to 100,000-150,000 francs a week
Notably missing is any concrete sense of the world beyond the gates of the Château de l’Horizon. The first world war is dispensed with by assurances that Elliott drove across the continent offering “aid” to Belgians (what kind of aid?), then bought a barge and floated around with her friends, also helping Belgians. In 1938, as the second world war loomed somewhere that clearly seemed remote, Somerset Maugham wrote to Vita Sackville-West from his nearby Villa la Mauresque: “The heat is intense, the garden lovely, the chair long and cool, the lime-juice at hand, a bathing-pool there if one wishes to splash, scenery, books, gramophones, pretty people.” This seems simply to be a reality of life for the wealthy on the Riviera – the outside world registers only if it’s breaking down your door; otherwise, it fades away in the jasmine-scented air. During the war itself, the posh people vacated, leaving the coast to those too poor to leave, and to its invaders; Elliott’s chateau was occupied by Italian and German officers. After the war, while the food bill at the house ran to 100,000-150,000 francs a week, the locals struggled to survive on limited rations.
Khan had various adventures during the war, at one point fleeing his Beirut apartment “across the rooftops, carrying his favourite saddle”; he served in military intelligence in Cairo, joined up with the allied forces and swung into Cannes soon after D-Day, much like Hemingway liberating the Ritz in Paris. (Lovell has him “liberate” the Carlton.) All in all it was a grand old war for the prince; Lovell reports that “he once said that he had never been happier than during the years 1941 to 1945”. How very dashing of him.
The third big personality at the chateau was Churchill. Lovell, the author of a biography of the wartime prime minister and his family, seems blinded by affection for him. There is no mention of Churchill’s involvement in empire, famine, chemical weapons or “Britain’s gulag” in Kenya; nothing about the people who suffered while he swam in the pool. Considering so much of the book is dedicated to Khan, who was at one point the permanent representative of Pakistan to the UN, it is curious indeed that Lovell does not stop to consider decolonisation, Indian independence or the foundation of Pakistan, except to cursorily indicate that the latter occurred. It is safer to talk about people starving in France outside the doors of the chateau: that reminds us that Churchill was a war hero who helped save Europe from fascism. Meanwhile in 1943 his war cabinet was stockpiling wheat for after the war to feed Europeans but, according to the historian Madhusree Mukerjee, ignored the famine that had spread across north-west Bengal: “170,000 tons of Australian wheat bypassed starving India,” Mukerjee argues, “destined not for consumption but for storage”.
One final anecdote from the epilogue is the last in a succession of missed opportunities. In July 2015, as Lovell was finishing the book, the house’s current owners, the Saudi royal family, were preparing for a visit, and had blocked off access to the small public beach near the property. In the end it “was considered too dangerous for the royal family, although, arguably, for many decades personalities of equal importance mixed happily with such local residents as cared to venture across the rocks”. That’s all we get: Lovell pleased that the house is “still making headlines”. But not why, and in what terms, and what it means for the world we live in: our notions of community, and the right to public space; our ideas about celebrity and protecting celebrity from the world. All this has changed since Elliott’s day, even as the house has remained (despite the Saudis having made changes to it that render it unrecognisable).
There is, however, an unmissable photograph of Churchill going down Elliott’s waterslide. They should have put that one on the £5 note.
• To order The Riviera Set for £20.50 (RRP £25) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
There could be no worse fate for a broken hero on a last-chance powerdrive than to break down at the side of the road. But that is exactly what happened to Bruce Springsteen recently. And now a fellow blue-collar rocker from the tri-state area has stepped forward to take the blame for Bruce Springsteen’s motorcycle mishap.
Earlier in November, Springsteen was stranded by the side of the road in New Jersey when he was rescued by a group of bikers from the Freehold American Legion who took him to a local bar until he could be picked up.
On Monday, Billy Joel told an audience in New York that he had built the bike Springsteen had been riding. Joel put the machine together at 20th Century Cycles, the “motorcycle gallery” he owns in Oyster Bay, Long Island. The gallery displays Joel’s collection of around 60 vintage bikes.
Joel played Born to Run during his show at Madison Square Garden in New York on Monday, then told the crowd he had called Springsteen to apologise for the motorcycle mishap. “No worries,” Springsteen replied.
Joel is currently in the midst of Madison Square Garden residency that has been running since January 2014 – he has sworn to play there every month until there is no longer demand. He recently announced his 38th show of the residency, taking place on 22 February 2017.
Meet Ricky. He has a knee injury, a stiff neck and a cough. He missed a consultant appointment because he is terrified of going to hospital. “I’m scared,” he confesses to Dr Jiwanji at Farnham Road Surgery in Slough. “I’m not going.” Meanwhile, his knee pain worsens. Also, he lives in a “disgusting” house. Someone keeps urinating in the hallway. Dr Jiwanji asks him what he needs. “A knee support and some physio,” Ricky replies. In a broken system, this is how a broken patient’s complex needs must be distilled.
Except, Dr Jiwanji explains: “We don’t provide knee supports. You have to buy them.”
“I’m on benefits,” Ricky replies. “I can’t afford it.”
So Ricky gives up on a knee support and Dr Jiwanji writes another referral letter explaining that Ricky will only be operated on under general anaesthetic. Welcome to a typical exchange in GPs: Behind Closed Doors (Channel 5, 8pm). Here’s another: a beleaguered receptionist listens to a woman’s complaint that her legs are killing her. “I might as well just sit in bed and die,” she announces. The receptionist continues to look at her screen. “Can you come tomorrow at 11.40am?” she eventually asks without looking up. The woman is delighted. She has hit the jackpot: a next-day appointment.
And so on, ad infinitum. This might be the most depressing programme on television. What is the point of it? To chill our hearts? Frighten hypochondriacs? Remind us that GPs, like the musicians on the Titanic, are doing their best in a bad situation? We know this, that the NHS, the last bastion of civilised life in this shattered country, is being dismantled even as each new episode airs and we repeat-dial our surgeries in the hope of a phone consultation. We don’t need to see a doctor examining a lump on Colleen’s hand to prove it.
Nevertheless, it continues. The GPs see a baby with eczema, a young woman experiencing seizures whose mum has recorded them on her phone, a man with concussion following a head injury, and another with a swollen leg that might be the result of fatal internal bleeding. Then there’s Leslie, who has hypersensitivity pneumonitis, otherwise known as bird-fancier’s lung. He used to keep 500 birds but is now so ill he has got rid of 300 rare species that were in his house. And got himself some squirrels instead. “No feathers,” he explains between sputum-laden coughs.
The dishy doctor of the practice – because there must be one – is Dr James. “He’s the delicious-looking doctor here,” Beryl giggles as she awaits a steroid injection, which she declares to be lovely. “I’m not sure about that,” Dr James quips. “Everyone here says I look like David Cameron.” This is pretty much the only heartwarming moment – and it features David Cameron.
By the time the programme finishes with a spoof-like update on the patients – Colleen’s lump has been removed, Sean’s potentially fatal swollen leg turned out to be muscle strain – I have figured out the potential of this excruciating show. It will become a government-endorsed project, on endless repeat on an obscure channel, allowing viewers to self-diagnose from the sofa and save NHS resources. Either that, or it is a good basis for an episode of Black Mirror.
Kids On The Edge (Channel 4, 9pm) is also a fly-on-the-wall series about an NHS service but with genuine heart and soul. A thoughtful and moving documentary following the specialised work of the Tavistock trust, the second episode takes us inside Gloucester House, an NHS-run primary school for children with severe mental, social and emotional health issues. Its 18 pupils have all been expelled. Gloucester House represents the end of the line, and like many such places, it turns out to be filled with rage, resolve, patience and hope.
The most moving story features its longest standing pupil Josh, 11, who has a history of appalling abuse and neglect: at the age of three he was scavenging food for his two younger brothers. Adopted when he was five by a a lovely, tender gay couple called Stig and Phil, Josh is overwhelmed by rage and struggles to feel remorse. Josh’s behaviour deteriorates towards the end of term. He runs away on a school trip and says he feels as if he is going to burst. But the commitment of the workers, therapists, teachers, parents and children is nothing short of miraculous. “We’re fighting for Josh to have a future,” says Stig. And it doesn’t get more hopeful than that.
His work has been bought by US presidents and appears in museum collections all over the world – and yet most of Paa Joe’s creations are buried six feet underground.
Joe, who turned 69 this week, is Ghana’s most prolific coffin artist and, after five decades in the funeral industry producing some of the world’s most extravagant designs, his work is being celebrated in a major exhibition in Accra.
Joe’s work – which includes coffins in the shape of Porsches, naked women, Nike trainers, cameras, Coca-Cola bottles and chilli peppers – is designed to represent the life of the deceased, with each item handcrafted and painted for the funeral procession, which can last up to three days and three nights.
Working with curator Nana Oforiatta-Ayim, Joe and his son Jacob have developed an exhibition that explores the traditions behind the fantasy coffins and their particular popularity within the Ga community in Ghana, where this unique custom began.
“People celebrate death in Ghana. At a funeral, we have a passion for the person leaving us – there are a lot of people, and a lot of noise,” says Jacob, 28, who has worked with his father for eight years.
Far from seeing their work as morbid, Jacob says the coffins are celebratory and reflect west African attitudes to death. “It reminds people that life continues after death, that when someone dies they will go on in the afterlife, so it is important that they go in style.”
Joe’s creations have attracted high-profile fans: Jacob recalls visits from Kofi Annan, the former UN secretary general, and the ex-US president Jimmy Carter, who reportedly purchased two coffins. Bill Clinton also stopped by during an official state visit to Ghana in 1998.
Joe discovered coffin-making when he was 16, when his mother sent him to do an apprenticeship in the Ga fishing community of Teshie. His uncles, Ajetey and Kane Kwei, were prominent fantasy coffin makers in the area in the 1950s, and Joe worked with Kane for 12 years before returning to Accra in 1976 to establish his own workshop.
His first fantasy coffin, carved in 1978, was in the shape of a building and designed for a real-estate developer.
But demand has since slowed, Jacob says. “In Accra, when it was blowing up, we would make up to 10 coffins a month,” he says. Now, the pair – who work alone at their workshop in Pobiman, 15 miles from the capital – create about two a month, though the more complex designs can take longer.
The local price for a coffin for conventional use is equivalent to about £1,500, depending on the commission. Those created for exhibitions can fetch up to £8,000.
But while Joe’s work has received international recognition – displayed at the Pompidou Centre in Paris, the British Museum and the V&A in London, as well as the Brooklyn Museum in New York – he has endured financial hardship at home and was forced to move his workshop out of central Accra to cheaper premises in 2008.
“Any time we travel abroad, people in the western world have a huge respect for our work, but in Ghana they don’t recognise this as art,” Jacob says.
But this is starting to change, and Oforiatta-Ayim says the exhibition, scheduled to be held at ANO, a new art space in Accra, in early 2017, will showcase just how significant a role Joe has played in Ghanaian culture.
“What I love so much about the coffins is that they underline this idea of art being part of life and death in Ghana,” she says. “His coffins have been so prevalent in the birth of contemporary African art in the west.”
Joe is also the subject of a documentary directed by the British film-maker Benjamin Wigley. Paa Joe and the Lion premiered in the UK in August and follows the father and son as they arrive for a one-month residency at Clumber Park botanical gardens in Nottinghamshire, where the pair build a lion-shaped coffin.
After the UK screening, Joe received his biggest commission to date: a request for a Chevrolet Stingray convertible with room for two people.
With the renewed interest in Joe’s work, Jacob is thinking about how his father’s legacy can be protected.
“We are interested in teaching students from abroad, either in Ghana or Europe, and we’re hoping to establish some kind of residency,” he says.
But Joe is not hanging up his tools just yet. He continues to produce caskets at his workshop but says when he does eventually require one himself, he would like his coffin to be in the shape of a hammer.
The idea that computers will soon steal our jobs is an article of faith among many of the world’s most powerful people. The argument goes like this: breakthroughs in robotics and artificial intelligence will make it possible to automate various kinds of labour. Self-driving cars will replace taxi and truck drivers; software will replace lawyers and accountants. We’ll end up with a world where machines do almost all of the work.
Over the last few years, a growing chorus of pundits, academics and executives have made this scenario seem inevitable – and imminent. There are many reasons to be sceptical of their claims. But even if you accept the argument that mass automation is around the corner, you might find yourself wondering what a post-work future would look like. Would it be a heaven or a hell, or somewhere in between?
Peter Frase gives four answers to this question in Four Futures: Life After Capitalism. He offers two heavens and two hells: two ways that automation might facilitate a flourishing of human life, and two ways that it might maximise human misery. In all of these potential futures, automation is the constant; what changes is the political and ecological context – in other words, who owns the robots and how climate change affects the resources on which technology depends.
Frase’s approach stands in stark contrast to other practitioners of the genre. Many mainstream futurists predict that automation will mean lives of leisure for all, as we’re liberated from our day jobs to become artists or artisans or lotus-eaters. Perhaps, Frase responds, but technology doesn’t dictate outcomes. Rather, it sets the parameters of possibility. Utopia is an option, but the robots alone won’t get us there. That’s because the distinctly dystopian features of our present – a small number of people control most of the wealth, and global warming is heating portions of the planet past habitable levels – won’t simply disappear with automation. The day after the robots arrive, Frase points out, capitalist class relations and a collapsing biosphere will still be with us.
The day after the robots arrive, capitalist class relations and a collapsing biosphere will still be with us
This might seem obvious, but it’s infuriatingly absent from much forecasting. Frase injects a sorely needed dose of reality to the conversation, and the result is invigorating. In the tradition of the finest science fiction, his futures feel plausible because they’re intensified versions of our present. They’re not narrowly predictive, but roaming, impressionistic – “social science fiction”, he calls it, a mode of speculative analysis that reads like Philip K Dick ventriloquising Marx.
The first of the book’s four futures is “communism”, a word that Frase restores to its original meaning. For Marx, communism meant not an authoritarian one-party state but the idyll that awaits us after a long period of social and technological transformation. A communist society is so productive and so egalitarian that nobody has to work to survive, fulfilling Marx’s famous dictum, “from each according to his ability, to each according to his need”. For Frase, this ideal might be realised by robots running on an unlimited clean energy source, providing the material basis for a post-work, post‑scarcity and post-carbon world.
Just because the technical preconditions for such a world exist doesn’t mean it’ll magically materialise, however. This is the central argument of Frase’s book: building the future we want is ultimately a matter of politics, not technology. As he points out, economic elites will surely want to preserve their privileges even if a system of wage labour is “totally superfluous” for production. “Having power over others is, for many powerful people, its own reward,” he writes. And if these people manage to retain their dominance in a fully automated economy, then we get “rentism” – Frase’s second future.
Rentism is where abundance exists, but “the techniques to produce abundance are monopolised by a small elite”. This monopoly is maintained by owning not merely the robots, but the data that tells the robots how to do their job. A world where you can automate everything is a world where you can encode any task as information. You might have a very sophisticated robot, but you’ll still need to give the robot software that explains how to make pancakes or plunge your toilet. This software can be copyrighted as intellectual property, so that whenever you need your toilet plunged, you have to pay a fee.
That means you’ll also need a job. The only problem is that there aren’t enough jobs, because all the socially useful work is done by machines. That leaves the labour required to sustain the ruling regime: you could be one of the lucky few who gets to write the software, or an intellectual property lawyer who protects it from infringement, or a cop who disciplines the large numbers of desperate people who are too poor to pay for it. But mostly, rentism will be prone to underemployment and stagnation, because the economy requires consumers and the jobless masses can’t afford to consume.
As unpleasant as it sounds, rentism still contains a kernel of utopia, because it presupposes a form of abundant clean energy. But what if that miraculous energy source never arrives? What if there’s no escape from scarcity or the ecological horrors of climate change?
Climate change is often framed as a crisis for the human race as a whole. But as Frase explains, this apocalyptic rhetoric obscures the essential fact that climate change affects different groups of people differently. Those who live in less vulnerable latitudes, or who can afford to insulate themselves from extreme heat and weather, will fare much better than the poorer residents of Dhaka or Miami or the Maldives. The question isn’t whether human civilisation will survive – it almost certainly will – but “who will survive the change”.
The rich might find it more convenient to exterminate the poor altogether, now they’re no longer needed as workers
If we find a way to survive it in “some reasonably egalitarian way”, our society might resemble “socialism”, Frase’s third future. In socialism, there are no shortcuts. Automation exists, but the breakthrough that creates a cornucopia of carbonless energy doesn’t. This means we have to cool the climate the old-fashioned way, through a massive, state-led campaign to radically remake our infrastructure, our landscape and our patterns of consumption. Frase offers some thoughtful proposals on how to organise such an undertaking fairly and efficiently, through mechanisms such as a universal basic income, paired with market planning. But one can’t help feeling that this future, while decent and democratic, sounds rather boring when compared with its communist cousin.
There are far worse things than boredom, however. Frase’s fourth and final future, “exterminism”, is truly terrifying. Exterminism has the robots and scarcity of socialism, minus the egalitarianism. The result is a neo-feudal nightmare: the rich retreat to heavily fortified enclaves where the robots do all the work, and everyone else is trapped outside in the hot, soggy hell of a rapidly warming planet. “The great danger posed by the automation of production, in the context of a world of hierarchy and scarce resources,” Frase says, “is that it makes the great mass of people superfluous from the standpoint of the ruling elite.” The elite can always warehouse this surplus humanity in prisons and refugee camps. But at a certain point, the rich might find it more convenient to simply exterminate the poor altogether, now that they’re no longer needed as workers.
It is a testament both to Frase’s ability as a writer and the barbarism of our present moment that exterminism feels like the most realistic of his futures. I lost sleep over it. Yet he is careful to counsel his readers against despair. “The ruling class tells us that the future is inevitably bright; left-leaning curmudgeons reassure themselves that the future is inevitably gloomy,” he writes. But the future is neither bright nor gloomy: it’s what we make of it. Between the temptations of nihilism and utopianism lies politics, with its rhythms of long, slow struggle punctuated by the occasional social explosion. It may not provide the thrill of pretending to know the future, but it’s the only force capable of creating a world we might want to live in.
• To order Four Futures for £7.37 (RRP £8.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
Before I moved to Paris, I lived in Amsterdam for almost 20 years. It’s small, quiet and clean – almost everything that opposes good photography, in my opinion. I always ended up shooting in the red-light district, hoping for something crazy and unexpected to happen. I started to feel like a goldfish, circling round and round, bored.
I was intrigued by the prostitution in Paris – especially having come from Amsterdam, where it is organised and sex workers are protected. Around the corner from my new place, on a boulevard in the 18th arrondissement, there are groups of eastern European women selling their services. On my way to photograph there one night, I passed by this guy slumped in a chair in the street. I recognised him – I had seen him peeing against a tree.
At first, I kept walking, feeling sorry for him. I’m never sure if I am actually helping homeless people or just taking advantage of someone’s misery when I take such a picture. But I walked back. His posture, the objects around him, the light – it all seemed like a film set. Though an old man, there was something childlike and innocent about the way he was sleeping, so completely vulnerable.
I always use available light. Here, I was lucky to have a streetlight reflecting beautifully on to the metal blinds. I took the first picture from relatively far away, getting closer with every shot, until I was near his head. Then I took two steps back, realising I had to have the whole chair in.
Paris has this lovey-dovey side that tourists are drawn to: the impressive architecture, the croissants, red wine and cheese. But at night, it’s tougher and gloomier, a pretty sinister place. I found the poverty shocking: I saw a family with three children sleeping rough on a double mattress, a teenager breastfeeding her baby on some shabby corner and an old man sleeping in a phone booth. And Parisians would just walk past, not blinking an eye, as if it was the most normal thing in the world to see a guy with no legs pushing himself about on a little board with wheels, begging. I wanted to give all of them money, but hardly had any myself. The problem seemed so omnipresent that I kind of lost hope.
I love raw, grainy, blurry images – when photography isn’t used to explain a situation, but to capture the human experience instead. I observe from a distance, without intervening, without breaking the moment or momentum. I don’t walk up to people and ask if I can take their picture – that would ruin everything, although sometimes you do meet someone and it’s beautiful. Occasionally, I force myself in front of people. I know it’s ugly and awkward, but I steal a picture if I really need to have it – and if I know I can physically defend myself. That’s the reason I swim four times a week. I’ve got a healthy sense of ethics, but sometimes you have to be able to let go.
Born: Doorwerth, the Netherlands, 1975
Education: Forestry (unfinished), biology (unfinished), physiotherapy (unfinished), Photo Academy Amsterdam (graduated)
Influences: “Anders Petersen, Michael Ackerman, Trent Parke, Jacob Aue Sobol – photographers who have a subjective vision.”
High point: “When a picture resembles a Francis Bacon painting.”
Low point: “Walking night after night with no results.”
Top tip: “Read Down and Out in Paris and London by George Orwell.”
Every week on planet Earth, new podcasts are born. They emerge fully prepared for listeners’ ears anywhere in the world. But let’s face it: the podcasts Australians tend to hear about are mostly American, right?
That isn’t entirely surprising. The American voice is ubiquitous across film, TV and nearly every other form of English-language media that Australians regularly encounter. Yet aural media has played – and continues to play – an essential part in the daily routine of so many Australians at every stage of life, in the city and the country – and especially on the long, ruminative drives between them. The lure of a disembodied voice or conversation is a nostalgic or connective one.
Australian radio and podcasting culture is known for its dry humour, rich soundscapes and circuitous storytelling. For those who have a hankering for something local, here are our current favourites.
The Real Thing is a lively, dynamic podcast that’s a few stories into its first season. Its purview is distinctively Australian stories – “in search of the real Australia” – which is a broad definition for what’s turning out to be quite an idiosyncratic approach. Its layered and conversational style echoes the rapid cuts of Radiolab, sometimes jumping quickly between multiple voices to keep a story moving forward. But you’ll also hear great sound design, a lighthearted take on documentary, and the fast, self-deprecating and sometimes brash humour that’s often absent from podcast playlists.
Gateway episode: Backyard Lion Safari
In a sentence: Energetic documentary storytelling with a bold and distinctly Australian flavour.
For fans of: Radiolab, Third Ear
It’s worth digging through the entire back catalogue of this series, with each season exploring a different theme. From high-school survival tales to the untold stories of multicultural Australia, True Stories features some of Australia’s best emerging and established storytellers (with gorgeous original music and sound design to boot).
Season three is a departure from preceding seasons: a five-part investigation into the murders of gay South Australian men over the past several decades (as reported on from many angles as part of SBS’s Deep Water project). Told by award-winning Australian investigative journalist and writer Mark Whittaker, each episode follows Mark’s investigation, and interviews with the victims’ families, police and legal professionals. It’s respectful and superbly crafted audio storytelling from a deft production team.
Gateway episode: Rex, the beat, and the bashing
In a sentence: True stories that offer artful and insightful glimpses into Australia’s diverse society.
For fans of: Bowraville, Snap Judgment, Love+Radio
In AWAYE!, Daniel Browning reports on Aboriginal arts and culture from across the continent – as well as highlighting great radio from Indigenous broadcasters around the world. It’s a consistently interesting show that sometimes strays from its core subjects to bring focus to issues such as constitutional recognition, prison, geography and history … which of course bear no uncertain influence on creative work.
You’ll learn a lot about modern Indigenous Australian writing, art and media from this podcast, which is brimming with imaginative vibrancy, political urgency and wide global influences and effects.
One of our faves: The Word Up series
In a sentence: An indispensable entry point to the deep and varied Aboriginal arts and culture scene.
For fans of: RN Books and Arts, CBC Unreserved
All the Best is a weekly podcast and community radio show that tells stories using short-form documentary, personal narrative, interviews and fiction. Since starting out in 2010, the show has nurtured some of Australia’s best young radiomakers – with an impressive number subsequently producing excellent work in other podcasts, projects and radio jobs around the world.
The show is put together by producers orbiting community radio stations in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane, and one of the things we love is that it’s so welcoming and encouraging of people who’ve never made radio before – supporting them with one-on-one editorial guidance, feedback, opportunities and exposure. The raw experimentation of newer producers, mixed with the experience of stalwart contributors, makes for a great weekly snapshot of Australian life – from the whimsical to the deadly serious.
Gateway episode: Grapes of Ridicule
In a sentence: Everyday Australia told through small, imaginative pieces from a broad palette of radio upstarts.
For fans of: This American Life, Earshot
Not By Accident is a documentary podcast series about becoming a single mother by choice.
Over several years of recording – pretty astonishing on its own – Sophie Harper documents the intimate details of her not-so-conventional journey to becoming a parent. As a narrator, Sophie’s tone is quiet and personal. At times, it feels like you’re sitting on her couch hearing her tell her story. At others, she’s right in your ear.
Through audio diaries, conversations with friends and family, and fly-on-the-wall recordings, Harper describes her changing body, career, childbirth, and the enormous love that having her child has unlocked.
Gateway episode: Insemination Story
In a sentence: The process of becoming a single mother by choice – documented in intimate audio detail.
For fans of: Strangers, First Day Back, How to be a Girl
SleepTalker is a podcast ‘about sleep, dreams, nightmares and what happens in your head after dark.’ Really, though, it’s as much about the things that frame the experience of sleep – the compromises we make with those we sleep beside, the anxieties, disorders and distractions that keep us from a good night’s rest, or the ways in which we work with the experiences we have while asleep – and how they affect our waking lives.
Mostly, episodes are presented as edited single-voice stories stripped of the interviewer’s voice – with subtle sound design and music in the mix, too – but there’s a compelling sense of variation between (and sometimes within) its dozen-odd episodes to date.
Gateway episode: Compromise
In a sentence: Immersive, hypnotic stories about sleep and what happens around (and inside) it.
For fans of: Here Be Monsters, Love+Radio
Recently cancelled Soundproof opens up an hour-long space for, well, art. From sounded features to deeply weird experiments, in a podcast boom dominated by narration and journalistic approaches to storytelling, Soundproof is a rarity that takes listeners in a completely different direction. (Fact: it’s also one of the only podcasts in which you might actually hear a boom.)
Through long- and short-form creative audio, and with the appearance of many notable experimental musicians alongside sound and radio artists, writers and documentarians, Soundproof engages the imagination with work that mashes language, music and pure sound into something unique and expansive. Give it time to sink in: its best work generously rewards deep listening with transporting experiences. Headphones are an absolute must.
Gateway episode: Moving Homes
In a sentence: The most adventurous, mesmerising listening experience you’ll find.
For fans of: Sound Matters, The World According to Sound, Between the Ears
• The Wheeler Centre recently announced the Australian Audio Guide in collaboration with Audiocraft
The 13th series of the celebrity genealogy show gets off to an unusually high-octane start with Danny Dyer, former anthropologist of football hooliganism-turned-beloved Queen Vic landlord. Excavating his authentic East End roots, Dyer blazes through prison records and workhouse databases. It’s a rollicking journey even before a much-publicised right royal twist comes along to give him and the historians a shock. Graeme Virtue
This Stephen Poliakoff serial promises much. An elegantly and evocatively distressed late-1940s setting. Spivs and former Nazis working uneasily together in an effort to win the peace. And a general lawlessness in which the noble and the malign could thrive equally. And yet, it never quite flies: the dialogue feels sluggish and none of the characters make a convincing enough play for our engagement. Tonight, Victor’s behaviour leaves Callum vulnerable to blackmail. Phil Harrison
Part of the BBC’s Black And British season, this is a fascinating and humbling doc about the nurses who moved from the Caribbean to help build the NHS. It’s a straightforward, unfussy assemblage of archive footage and interviews with the altogether heroic women concerned, which recognises that their stories require no embellishment. It’s also an implicit rebuke to boneheaded ideas currently at large in Britain and elsewhere. Andrew Mueller
A strand of new video art ranging from short films to music promos. The feel is subversive and occasionally quite strange, bringing a gallery-installation flavour to your front room. Tonight’s showings include a satire about the future of data storage, and George Wu’s film for the single Luminous Freedom by electro band New Build, featuring witty juxtapositions between painterly still-life composition and celebrity puns. John Robinson
A third series of the comedy-drama about teenage life with divorced parents opens, and Millie’s resolve is tested by Dad’s decision to move the family into a new flat. There’s an extra bedroom, but who’s getting dibs on it? As a fight breaks out between the step-siblings, maybe this is one dilemma that can’t be solved by emergency pancakes. While the affable and oblivious Dad leaves Millie and her sister Lauren to sort things out, they come up with a radical plan. Hannah Verdier
More buffoonery from Lord Sugar’s eager charges as they’re tasked with coordinating opposing late-night events at the London Aquarium and Madame Tussauds. Two truly terrible nights out are conceived and foisted on unsuspecting punters. Heading up team Titan, Dillon takes great delight in muscling in on his own night’s entertainment, while Nebula’s bolshy leader Paul provides his own sideshow in the form of a stand-up row with a teammate. Ben Arnold
Sumptuous and surreal, Paolo Sorrentino’s drama of life in the Vatican continues with Lenny agreeing to meet with the Italian PM. It’s an awkward encounter, at least from the politico’s perspective. Elsewhere, Dussolier takes a sexually charged trip to his home of Honduras. Where the overall plot is going you wouldn’t like to say, but this is like nothing else on TV, and made believable by a never-better Jude Law. Jonathan Wright
The Book of Eli, (Albert Hughes, Allen Hughes, 2009), 9pm, ITV4
Another post-apocalyptic parable with Denzel Washington as holy warrior Eli, carving his way along what is pretty much the Cormac McCarthy road, trying to keep the last surviving copy of the Bible out of the clutches of Gary Oldman’s tyrannical Carnegie. The violence is on an appropriately Old Testament scale. Paul Howlett
Football: Hyundai A-League
Central Coast Mariners host Perth Glory (Kick-off 8.50am). 8.45am, BT Sport 1
Europa League Football
Southampton take on Sparta Prague at St Mary’s, and Feyenoord travel to Old Trafford to face Manchester United. 5.30pm, BT Sport 3
Test Cricket: New Zealand v Pakistan
All the action from the opening day of the second Test in the two-match series. 9.45pm, Sky Sports 2
Merce Cunningham and his little dance company, the oddest of the off-springs from Martha Graham’s school, were received ecstatically by some critics and a small public when they were here two years ago. They returned last night, to the Saville Theatre, to discover if the magic could be repeated. In the interval their productions seem to have gained in complication. By that I do not mean that there is really any sign that the choreography itself, all of it by Mr Cunningham, has developed in any significant way. Well, to be quite fair, there were a few groupings and postures in his very latest work, called “Place,” which bespoke faintly a less flaccid idiom, a more vigorous choreographic imagination; but, essentially, the choreography is as it was before – silly-simple stuff, visually awkward sometimes but never requiring more than meagre technical accomplishment by its performers.
It is all the rest of the production which has become so complicated – notably in “Variations V” (made in 1965), which was the final item in last night’s programme. Here we had, for accompaniment, electronic noises and two concurrent cinema-shows provided from projectors which snuggled in the orchestra pit along with the electronic devices and whose projections wandered anarchistically about the backcloth; we had, besides, Mr Cunningham playing with an artificial rubber plant, which turned out to be a multiple microphone, also one girl giving another a highly audible vibromassage. And, finally, we had Mr Cunningham riding an undersized bicycle round the stage. In fact, as a sensible observer said, it was like a mountain of machinery used to produce one of those mouse-sized television shows; for the actual “live” performance by the dancers during all this hurly-burly was inconsiderable indeed. The whole show, unfortunately, had already been given away by the programme’s first item, “Nocturne” (of 1956), set to gentle, ruminative piano music by Satie; here there was nothing to hide what the choreographer and his dancers could or could not do – and they did very little.
Two years ago it was plain enough that Mr Cunningham, aesthetically speaking, was wearing the Emperor’s new clothes. He is still doing so.
Tasmania is having a moment. Undeniably, the popularity of David Walsh’s Museum of Old and New Art has consolidated the state’s reputation as a cultural tourism destination. But right now something else is happening too: Tasmania is emerging as a star of film and television.
This year saw the debut of eight-part Foxtel/BBC Worldwide thriller The Kettering Incident in July, while new ABC comedy Rosehaven premiered in October. They are high profile, well-received shows which seem likely to go to a second season. Though poles apart genre-wise, both are set in small-town Tasmania and riff on notions of otherness and isolation while highlighting the dark beauty of the landscape.
This year also marks the premiere of big budget features partly shot in Tasmania: Lion starring Dev Patel and Nicole Kidman, and A Light Between Oceans starring Michael Fassbender. Meanwhile, Jennifer Kent’s anticipated second feature, The Nightingale, will be produced in Tasmania in early 2017.
With the exception of A Light Between Oceans, which depicts a fictional Australian island, all of these projects use Tasmania as a central plot element. It’s not a case of a new backlot; we’re talking about major productions engaging with Tasmania the place, the identity, the idea. This has been happening for a while in the realm of the historical docu-drama (Tasmanian-made and Irish-made stories of convict life on the island, most notably) and there have been occasional feature films. But this new crop of productions has the potential to shift the way the world, including the rest of Australia, thinks about this island of half a million people.
This is no overnight success story. Screen Tasmania was formed in 1999 to fund local production and support development, and there was sporadic activity long before that too, most significantly in the days of the Tasmanian Film Unit from 1945 to 1960 and Tasmanian Film Corporation in the 1970s.
But until recently, the only thing most international viewers knew about Tasmania was the Warner Bros’ creation Taz the Tasmanian devil, irksome to many actual Tasmanians. There have been other gems along the way, such as the kooky protagonist of Yahoo Serious’ Young Einstein (1988) and, years later, the endearingly blunt Fat Amy of the Pitch Perfect movies. In both cases, the characters’ origin stories were allusions to eccentricity, although any birthplace thought of as “redneck” or odd would have served just as well.
Now that the world’s understanding of Tasmania is evolving beyond simply being the birthplace of Errol Flynn – in no small part thanks to the influence of MONA – it’s no surprise that Australian filmmakers are eager to jump on the bandwagon. But is there really much to say? Aren’t we just talking about the equivalent of a small town, and aren’t they are a dime a dozen, all over the country?
Well, no. Tasmania is large, about the size of Ireland (no, you won’t be able to see it all in a weekend). Its terrain is diverse, in places wild and inhospitable, but actually most people live in the cities. Our culture has evolved alongside but separate to the rest of the country. We have our own slang, our own pop-culture touchstones, and, some say, our own accent. Our political scene operates in its own way and the world’s first environmental party was formed here.
The light is clearer. I won’t say it’s always spooky but Tasmania does have a unique atmosphere, borne of an unusually temperate climate for Australia, geographical isolation and memories of a violent past. It’s picturesque, and affords many opportunities for a high quality of life surrounded by mountains, bushland or coast. At the same time, the state tops the country in illiteracy and poverty rates. In many ways, it’s a fragmented society, with lingering conflicts over divisions of class and race. Many young Tasmanians feel limited by being here, and some of our best and brightest have languished in obscurity, sidelined from the national conversation.
The version of Tasmania most visible right now is heavily influenced by Tasmanian gothic – an aesthetic that has its origins in colonial literature and painting, informed by a European sensibility. There are festivals that deliberately engage with the idea of the darkness of this place: the overtly macabre Dark Mofo; the Unconformity arts festival in Queenstown; and my own horror film festival, Stranger With My Face, featuring the Tasmanian Gothic Short Script Challenge.
That said, the Tasmanian gothic is not necessarily central to the practice of local artists. An artistic tradition that comes from a Tasmanian Aboriginal perspective, or from a non-European immigrant perspective, for example, may reject the framework entirely. But going beyond labels, there’s an opportunity now to reflect on how we got to this point, and where Tasmania on screen is going from here.
Arctic Blast (2010) and The Hunter (2011) heralded a new wave of aesthetic interest in Tasmania.
An Australian-Canadian co-production, Arctic Blast is a B-grade disaster flick that centres around an American protagonist (played by Michael Shanks of Stargate fame). While the production employed many locals, the narrative treated Hobart as basically an offshore American city. The Hunter, produced by Porchlight’s Vincent Sheehan (also producer and co-creator of The Kettering Incident), is based on the novel by Sydney-sider Julia Leigh. Its European protagonist – played by Willem Dafoe – is a mercenary seeking the elusive Tasmanian tiger. Tasmania becomes the backdrop for an existential journey – important to the story only in a symbolic sense.
The key difference this time around is that The Kettering Incident and Rosehaven are co-created by Tasmanians (Vicki Madden and Luke McGregor respectively).
Yet these stories still talk about Tasmania from the outsider’s perspective, through the eyes of a fish-out-of-water character (in both cases an ex-local; in the case of The Kettering Incident the protagonist has lived away so long that she has British accent). This is a common device when introducing mainstream viewers to an “unusual” setting (see Doc Martin and Cornwall, Northern Exposure and Alaska, Top of the Lake and New Zealand, to name but a few) but it also creates a sense of distance, with the local people often treated as specimens or curiosities. Then again, the experience of going away, coming back and trying to re-assimilate is a quintessentially Tasmanian one. It will be interesting to see how these stories evolve if that sense of otherness is allowed to erode.
It’s one thing to talk about Tasmania on-screen in a purely ideological sense, but none of this can be separated from the practicalities of production.
Considering that large-scale production will probably never happen in Tasmania without major external funding, the question of what constitutes an authentic Tasmanian vision remains pertinent. There’s a risk of filmmakers playing into stereotypes and preconceptions or indulging in pure mainlander wish-fulfilment. Such tropes are not necessarily bad, in isolation: it’s about striking the right balance, and that means ensuring locally instigated projects don’t lag too far behind in-bound production.
Locating these TV shows in Tasmania has been a risk on the part of broadcasters: there’s no studio here, no huge pool of highly skilled crew, and the weather is unpredictable. It wasn’t a foregone conclusion that everything would work out, although earlier projects such as The Hunter were test cases. The producers of The Kettering Incident and Rosehaven have embraced shooting on location and made the accompanying challenges integral to their aesthetic. To their credit, they have also cast many Tasmanian actors, including in lead roles.
The experiment, so far at least, has been a resounding success.
If there’s one positive takeaway from the furious sociopolitical mess that has been 2016, it’s that protest music is alive and well in Australia. And not before time.
AB Original is the project of Briggs (aka Adam Briggs), the Yorta Yorta rapper, writer, Cleverman actor and Black Comedy star, and Trials (aka Daniel Rankine), the Ngarrindjeri MC and producer best known as one third of Adelaide hip-hop crew Funkoars.
Their debut album, provocatively titled Reclaim Australia, is a savage broadside at our national culture, taking on hot-button issues such as police brutality (Call ‘Em Out), deaths in custody (Report to the Mist) and Australia Day (lead single January 26, featuring Dan Sultan).
The duo had been working together for the better part of a decade when they made their official debut at the Triple J 40th anniversary celebration Beat the Drum in 2015. But it was that weekend that they made it official.
“We did two or three days around the weekend of Beat the Drum and every single song we worked on is on the album,” Trials says.
Briggs adds: “And another song we threw on a mixtape called Black Balls, because it was funny. Sometimes the message has to be funny.”
That’s the other thing about Reclaim Australia: it’s funny as hell. And among the puns and wordplay are some downright elegant slams.
For example, the hip-hop artist Eso might have deleted his 2014 Instagram selfie – pretending to punch the waxwork of Rihanna at Sydney’s Madame Tussauds – but AB Original have longer memories: “The brothers are back they pay stacks to see ’em,” Briggs spits on 2 Black 2 Strong. “Fuck it up worse than Eso in a wax museum.”
“Yeah, it’s a little tip of the cap,” Trials says.
“What a dickhead,” adds Briggs.
“Someone needs to discuss it,” Trials continues. “One thing you’ll notice about us is that we’re terribly shy about discussing controversial events.”
The album’s first single, January 26, doesn’t mince words either, in explaining why Australia Day should be moved to a less insulting date: “I said how about March 8th? We can do it on ya nan’s grave / We can piss up, piss on her face”.
The song draws attention to the “absolute absurdity of celebrating the day that our ancestors were slaughtered,” according to Trials. Briggs nods: “But people just hear, ‘They’re gonna piss on nan’s grave!’ The humourless right take it so literal.”
It’s not just the humourless right who find the message of AB Original hard to swallow. Who among us expected Australia’s youth, for instance, to get so furiously affronted when Triple J announced they were considering moving the Hottest 100 from Australia Day?
“We did,” Trials says.
Briggs explains: “The second that you challenge the perceived Australian way, the detractors lose their fucking minds.
“The second you tell a white dude he can’t do something – like, ‘Hey man, maybe don’t climb Uluru’, it’s immediately, ‘Fuck that, it’s my right, I can climb it if I want!’
“As soon as you tell them that something’s not for them, it’s, ‘But what about me? This is just reverse racism!’”
Trials adds: “It’s like the sexist lunacy that happened with the new Ghostbusters. For fuck’s sake, you have a bunch of Ghostbusters films already. Enjoy them.”
January 26 also acknowledges one universal truth that unites all of us: lamingtons are delicious. “We don’t want to take lamingtons away from you – we just want to enjoy lamingtons together,” Briggs laughs.
The album’s title is an obvious wink – a reference to the self-declared “patriots” who go by the same name.
“Well they fucking should be [delighted by the title],” says Briggs, of the far-right group. “We gave them a lot of promo. What we’ve done is brought a bit of class to the wanky little rallies they do.”
“We increased their Google searches tenfold,” Trials says. “Our shit comes up first. Hey Reclaim Australia, we reclaimed the hashtag.”
Briggs had been very clear on the name of the album from early on in the process. The idea came after a chat with Michael Hohnen, Gurrumul’s long-time friend and collaborator.
“He rang me up and said, ‘I’ve seen the Reclaim Australia people – I thought they were going to be Indigenous guys, because who else could reclaim it?’” He shakes his head. “Oh, poor, endearing, naive Michael.”
For AB Original, the key to their music is in juxtaposition between dark and light.
“The best comedy comes from tragedy, so we either laugh about it or we fuckin’ cry and flip out,” Briggs says. “We have to find the hilarity in the despair.”
That’s no small challenge when you’re writing about Indigenous children being brutalised in detention, or people dying in custody. As subjects go, they’re not obviously fertile ground for comedy.
“It’s absurd that this still happens,” Briggs says. “That’s where the humour is, not in someone dying.”
“[It’s in the absurdity] that they’re still dying,” Trials adds. “We had a royal commission and it still happens. The irony is not lost on us.
“You’ve got to laugh when you’re dealt out so much misery. You must.”
Do they see their work as protest music?
“Being black, evidently, everything you do is a protest,” Briggs says. “Everything you do as an Indigenous artist, whether you like it or not, becomes a protest.”
Trials goes further: “I think rioting and protesting is an important piece of justice. We’re not writing protest songs; we’re writing songs just to raise awareness of the systemic shit that still happens.”
Even so, there’s an optimism buried inside the anger and snark of AB Original.
“It’s always going to get worse before it gets better,” Briggs says. “That’s the nature of things that are shit.”
• AB Original’s debut album, Reclaim Australia, is out on Friday 25 November through Golden Era records. They’re playing at Laneway festivals around the country in 2017
Philip Hammond’s claims that he was saving a stately home that inspired Jane Austen’s Pride and Prejudice have been rubbished by the author’s official society.
The chancellor announced a £7.6m handout in Wednesday’s autumn statement to repair Wentworth Woodhouse in Rotherham, believed by some to be the real-life Pemberley, home of the novel’s Mr Darcy.
Announcing the boost for the Grade I-listed building, Hammond told MPs: “It is said to be the inspiration for Pemberley in Jane Austen’s Pride and Prejudice.”
But in a statement to the Guardian, the Jane Austen Society said there is no evidence Austen ever went to the house or that a character such as Fitzwilliam Darcy could ever have afforded to live there.
“There is absolutely no evidence that Jane Austen ever travelled further north than Lichfield in Staffordshire,” a society spokesperson said on Wednesday. “There are other places such as Chatsworth, which lay claim to be the model for Pemberley.”
Wentworth Woodhouse is Europe’s largest private home, sitting on 82 acres of land and believed to have more than 350 rooms. It took 25 years to build in the 1700s and once employed 1,000 staff, including a bear keeper and a “state bed maker”.
However, Chatsworth in Derbyshire – which is also a contender – has the benefit of Austen having been recorded as visiting the county in 1811, two years before her book was published.
The Duke of Devonshire said on Wednesday: “Some people say Chatsworth is the inspiration for Pemberley and some people say its Wentworth Woodhouse – we’d have to ask Jane Austen for a definitive answer. Either way, as a member of the Wentworth Woodhouse Preservation Trust, I’m delighted with the news that the government is to step in with a grant for the preservation of this wonderful building.”
In 1943, when the seventh Earl Fitzwilliam died, Wentworth was targeted by the Labour minister for fuel and power, Manny Shinwell, during a national coal shortage. Shinwell ordered mining right up to the windows of the house, despite the coal stock being described as “not worth the getting”. Later, part of the house was used as a teacher training college and a polytechnic. It then passed through a few hands until the last owner, Clifford Newbold, died in 2015.
Describing the property as a “key piece of Northern heritage”, Hammond criticised the 1946 Labour government for allowing coal mining on the grounds of the property, an act he called an “extraordinary act of cultural vandalism”.
A £7m bid to save the property – which included £3.5m of government money – was made in 2015 by the Wentworth Woodhouse Preservation Trust to buy the mansion, its protected contents and grounds.
However, this was scuppered by an £8m bid by Hong Kong-based investment fund Lake House Group, which was accepted instead. That deal eventually collapsed in November 2015.
Marcus Binney, executive president of SAVE Britain’s Heritage, said he was relieved by the chancellor’s announcement. “As the chancellor said, it was urgent because some of the grants were due to expire and we had already extended them three times,” he said. “This house has been in terrible trouble for the last 70 years. It has proved too expensive and difficult.”
Binney said that planned restoration work, projected to cost £42m, would most likely take 15 years. Once complete, uses could include a National Trust-run opening of the main rooms and gardens; a catering space in the north wing; a business centre for young startups in the stables and 15 residential units in the home for holiday lets and short-term leases.
The Hammond announcement is unusual but not unprecedented. Nigel Lawson, in his first budget speech in 1984, announced £4m to save Calke Abbey, now in the care of the National Trust.
The campaign to save Wentworth Woodhouse is chaired by Rotherham business owner Julie Kenny. “It is absolutely fantastic – we are just so excited,” she said. “It is the jewel in the crown for sure, but it needs a massive investment to secure it for the nation for the future and that is really important. It is the last Grade I building that is at risk and the hard work starts now.”
John Carr asks why the Open Rights Group is worried about requirements for people to verify their age with pornographic websites (Letters, 22 November). Open Rights Group supports the many organisations calling for compulsory sex education that discusses pornography and relationships. We also welcome efforts by British internet service providers to help parents mediate their children’s internet access and keep them safe online.
However, the government’s proposals, outlined in the digital economy bill, could lead to the tracking of UK adults across the pornographic websites they visit. There are no specific privacy protections in the bill. In fact, the government wants a proliferation of age verification technologies. How will we know which are safe and which are putting us at risk of an Ashley Madison-style data leak? Some sites might ask for your credit card details. Again, how will we know if this is genuine, or in fact a scam to steal your payment details?
Most pornographic sites will ignore the age verification requirement. So the government wants to give the British Board of Film Classification the power to block sites that don’t comply. To make this work, the BBFC would have to censor tens of thousands of legal websites. Censorship of this kind is an extreme step and should be reserved for illegal content. It is clear that the government has not thought any of this through.Jim KillockExecutive director, Open Rights Group
• The debate about how to enforce age verification systems on pornographic websites is hugely important if we are going to keep young people safe online. But the debate has now strayed into questioning the efficacy of self-regulation of child sexual abuse content, which is illegal for anyone, regardless of age. The UK is one of the most hostile territories in the world for hosting child sexual abuse. In 1996, 18% of known content was hosted here, but since 2004 this has been less than 0.5% and in 2015 was 0.2%. If we find content in the UK, it’s typically removed in under two hours, which is a record unmatched anywhere else in the world.
In 2015, the IWF, working with the internet industry, removed a record 68,000 URLs of child sexual abuse webpages. A number of children were safeguarded and thousands of children’s images were removed, stopping their re-victimisation. All this happened because the IWF self-regulatory model works and is held up as a global model of good practice. Internet companies work voluntarily with the IWF to remove this content as quickly as they can. The IWF self-regulatory model needs to be protected and valued for what it is: the most effective way to tackle a hideous crime.Susie Hargreaves Internet Watch Foundation
• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com
• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters
There is a wonderful photograph of Seretse and Ruth Khama sitting together on a rocky hill above the plains of what would later be renamed Botswana, with Seretse as its first president. You can’t see his eyes behind his aviator sunglasses, but you can see a slightly pained look in Ruth’s, as well as a defiance in her clasped hands. The marriage, less than two years earlier, of a white British woman to the heir to the leadership of Bechuanaland’s largest tribe was opposed by just about everyone – their families, Seretse’s Bamangwato people, the British government (which held Bechuanaland as a protectorate) and the South African government, which couldn’t countenance an interracial couple leading its neighbouring country.
For years, the actor David Oyelowo had been trying to get a film about their story made. When he approached Pike to play Ruth, he sent her this photograph. “In those faces close together,” she says, “I saw the love and the cost all at once – and I started to cry. It was a strange reaction, not a normal reaction for me.”
It is an extraordinary story. Ruth was a clerk at Lloyd’s underwriters when she met Seretse, a law student at Oxford, at a Missionary Society dance in London in 1947. They fell in love and married the following year, despite attempts to derail their romance. In Bechuanaland, where Seretse returned to take up his kingship, the couple were also met with hostility. Under pressure from South Africa, which had just set up apartheid, Britain exiled Seretse from its protectorate. Ruth stayed in Bechuanaland, where she gave birth to the first of their four children before joining him in England. They were allowed to go back to Bechuanaland in 1956, where Seretse founded a political party, eventually becoming president of the newly independent Botswana.
Pike read old newspaper reports in the British Library that sensationalised their relationship as one of forbidden love, with Ruth cast as the London typist who became a “white queen” in Africa. “She didn’t court it in any way,” she says, when we meet in a London hotel. “Imagine you’re dating a man and you find out this is his heritage.”
Pike is a slightly unnerving person. She is flawlessly beautiful, her voice soft and low, the way you would speak to a spooked animal. She seems both youthfully naive and about 100 years old. She says the story spoke strongly to her. “I’ve often felt I don’t belong quite wherever I am. So someone fearless like Ruth moves me. The fact she never wavered is very inspiring.”
Their tale is told in A United Kingdom, out this week. It was wonderful, says Pike, “to play someone who’s nobler than you, more heroic. I think she was one of those women who was liberated utterly by the second world war. She suddenly saw opportunities for women. I think I was channelling some of the spirit of my grandmothers. I remember when they talked about the war – I had one grandmother who worked in radar. You’re given a position that matters, your decisions and readings of situations matter, and all that was pretty new for women. It was exciting and there was pride in it.”
Ruth Williams, as she was, had driven ambulances at Friston airfield, where stricken British and American planes landed. Pike read the accounts she had written. “She’d be listening to the pilots on the radio: ‘Coming in now, I’m not sure the old girl’s going to make it.’ And her heart would be in her mouth. Sometimes the plane would land and burst into flames, sometimes the pilot would come out grinning. She was on the front line of life and death. I feel that, after that, everything was absolute for her. The certainty. I think she felt something so huge for Seretse and thought: ‘If I let him go, I might never feel this way again.’”
Directed by Amma Asante, A United Kingdom is only the second time in Pike’s film career – which started in 2002 with Die Another Day and has included everything from independent films to blockbusters – that she has worked with a female director (the previous one being Lone Scherfig in An Education). Isn’t that rather surprising? “I know,” she says. “There aren’t very many.” She remembers speaking to a woman who had directed a successful film, but had then worked in TV. Pike admits to wondering why. “You get suspicious. Then I met her and she said: ‘It’s frustrating – everyone assumes I’ve had some sort of flop, but I’ve just had a kid and decided I didn’t want the length of time and commitment that a feature takes.’ And you think: ‘Ah, of course.’ People are so quick to read into a woman’s career that something bad must have happened.”
A similar thing happened to her after the huge success of 2014’s Gone Girl, the adaptation of Gillian Flynn’s bestselling thriller, which brought Pike an Oscar nomination for her role as Amy Dunne – and shredded any remaining ideas that she was just a pretty, posh English actor. Her career also appeared to have a dip, but she had actually just had her second child with her partner, businessman Robie Uniacke. “It was pretty powerful being Amy,” she says. “I think I wanted to be very human for a while, very maternal probably.”
This proved rather hard, given the explosion of interest. “It was a big moment and also surreal,” she says. One magazine wanted to do a day-in-the-life-of-an-Oscar-nominee shoot, picturing her by the pool or getting her nails done. “I was like, ‘Are you joking?’” She laughs – a more accurate picture would have shown her carting the baby carseat around or struggling with bags of nappies. On the day the news of the Oscar nominations broke, she had to do phone interviews while lying on her bed, trying to entertain her two young sons at the same time.
Men don't want to play second fiddle to a woman
There were lots of offers: she was cast in a film with Christian Bale, but it was shelved when he hurt his knee. Then she did HHhH, playing the wife of Reinhard Heydrich, the senior Nazi behind many Third Reich atrocities. She played a CIA agent in High Wire Act, a political thriller set in 1980s Beirut, and did another Christian Bale film, Hostiles. All are due to come out next year.
But none are leading roles. She is either playing the wife, or a supporting character to the male leads. Was Amy Dunne a bit of a rarity in being a compelling female lead? “She is, but maybe I’m quite comfortable being No 2. I quite like that place. I don’t know that I’m that easy with being No 1.” Why? “I suppose you feel there’s somewhere to go. It’s an interesting question. I haven’t analysed why.”
Pike has been working on getting a passion project off the ground for several years, in which she will play the lead. “It’s not easy casting the men,” she says. “You have to go gingerly but you have to approach the right man at the right time, because men don’t want to play second fiddle to a woman. That’s the truth. It’s sad, isn’t it? Christian [Bale] might be different – he’s a leading man who quite wants to be a supporting actor, and is quite unusual in that respect. But … ” A pause, then a resigned: “Yeah.”
Her comfort in second billing may also, she says, be rooted in self-doubt. “You’re carrying the movie when you’re No 1,” she explains, “and I don’t know that I’m ready for that yet. I should be.” I point out that she carried a huge movie, Gone Girl, or at least did so equally with Ben Affleck. “I don’t know,” she says, looking a touch embarrassed. “Ben was still No 1 on the callsheet. The guy’s usually No 1.”
It’s the stories that interest her, she says, so if that means taking a smaller part, why should it bother her? She doesn’t feel she has to be the star? “No! God, no. But I probably should. I’d probably be more successful if I did. It would probably be a good idea.” She laughs. “Yes, note to self: go home and read scripts where female character is the lead.”
• A United Kingdom is in cinemas from Friday
• This article was amended on 23 November. The original said that Amma Assante was the first female director with which Pike had worked. In fact she is the second.
The president-elect’s favorite term of abuse is “loser” – lobbed more than 200 times from his toxic Twitter account, at victims from Jeb Bush to Rosie O’Donnell. When people like him are winners, “loser” might be an insult worth reclaiming. There’s a photo-collage from 1920, the first Francis Picabia ever made, in which the French artist tears apart his face, sutures it with hastily pasted papers, and brands his chin with the all-caps word RATÉ: a loser, a failure, a man defeated. And yet he flashes a crafty smirk, peeking out from under one of those pasted scraps. A “loser”, claimed Picabia in the years after the first world war, was the finest thing you could be; it meant you had failed to obey the dictates of a society that had lost its collective mind.
This week the Museum of Modern Art in New York opens its monster Picabia retrospective, six years in the making – a boisterous, scruffy feat of a show, and one that should help refashion the reputation of Dada’s trickiest misfit. (The show is co-organized with the Kunsthaus Zürich, where it first appeared this summer.) It is the first major show of Picabia in the US since 1970, and it includes not only his early Cubist works and his collaborations with Dada buddies Marcel Duchamp and Man Ray, but also wayward later paintings of pin-up girls and biblical babes, abhorred in their day.
With more than 120 paintings, plus a film, recordings, magazines and even a couple of carpets, you may at first get the impression that Picabia was clowning around – that he jumped from one style to another so wantonly that he couldn’t have had any convictions. That isn’t true, but you’ve got to look past style to see why. His discordant, self-contradicting art, in which wispy watercolors and hi-tech pistons could hang side by side, had a clear conviction: to crush distinctions between high and low, elegance and kitsch, and to force us all to the limits of taste.
He was born in Paris in 1879, to a Cuban father who made a killing on a sugar plantation and a French mother with her own fortune. (Though he was happy to play up his “exotic” heritage if it served his career – a New York Times critic in 1912 called him “the Cuban who out-cubed the Cubists” – it was the family money that really helped.) His early paintings, of Notre-Dame cathedral or of some wind-bent trees in Cannes, are Impressionist-lite renderings in the manner of Monet, Sisley or Pissarro. But they’re flat, unresponsive pictures, and if you find them insincere, you’re on to something. Where Monet and his colleagues worked en plein air, Picabia painted these early works from postcards – taking a readymade landscape and translating it into a readymade style. He wasn’t following Monet; he was bootlegging him.
As Europe tipped into war, Picabia began to paint large-scale Cubist canvases that rendered women, couples and dancers as interlocking curved planes. By 1914, he had been conscripted into the French army, but with his father’s help he got a plush assignment in Havana – and then went Awol in New York. The Big Apple, like the Dada capital of Zurich, was a haven for European artists in no mood to fight, and here Picabia met Duchamp, Man Ray, and also the photographer Alfred Stieglitz, whose avant-garde magazine 291 featured Picabia in yet another style. A “portrait” of Stieglitz takes the form of a metal contraption featuring a retractable metal grille. A “nude American girl” appears as a hydraulic cylinder, drawn with the exactitude of a technical diagram. Bodies that Picabia once depicted as planes of color now appeared as complex machines, kitted out with pumps and valves, greased by desire.
“Francis Picabia always attacks himself,” the artist wrote in 1920, the height of his Dada years, and those attacks were merciless. That chopped-and-screwed self-portrait, the one in which he designates himself as a “loser”, also proclaims him a “joker” and, in a complex pun, a rastaquouère: a nouveau-riche foreigner. (The photograph itself was probably shot by Man Ray.) A printed handbill shouts that “Francis Picabia is a stupid Spanish professor”, a “funny guy”, and simply “nothing!” And when he exhibited, he was more likely to shoot himself in the foot than to aim for approval. The best gallery of this show recreates much of a 1922 solo exhibition in Barcelona, in which Picabia hung wholly abstract drawings of circles, rings and oblongs alongside delicate, campy portraits of Spanish women, included to undercut the abstracts’ credibility. For some of his contemporaries, non-objective painting was a holy thing. For Picabia, it was just one style among many, and hit hardest when he deflated it most.
Dada fizzled by the early 1920s, and when Picabia took up painting again he went as far as his bad taste could take him. Instead of oils he used commercial house paint, and his “Monster” paintings of this time feature embracing lovers or carnival characters covered in garish zigzags and polka dots. (There’s also a landscape of the Promenade des Anglais, in Nice, whose palm trees are rendered with glued-down macaroni.) Even more vulgar were his so-called transparencies, in which trashy biblical figures are overlaid with outlines of other bodies. If you’re really attached to Picabia’s great Dada years, you may try to justify these garish paintings as yet another imposture – as a decades-long ironic commentary on the fiction of originality. The more likely explanation is that he was so restless, so unwilling to stick with a single style, that ugliness offered the most space to run wild.
Me, I love the Monsters; those Picasso-mocking ladies equipped with extra pairs of eyes have the hell-for-leather disarray of his best Dada works. But the transparencies, with their layered figures in dreary browns, are harder to esteem. And as for his nudes of the 1940s – unloved in their day though now, in this era of scrambled high and low art, more appreciated – what else is there to say except that they look like Nazi porn? Working from soft-core magazines, Picabia painted a whole series of buxom blondes in the altogether, sometimes with men, in one case chilling in bed with a bulldog. Their photographic sources put them in a lineage that stretches all the way back to those postcard-sourced landscapes, but their icy flesh and kitschy poses rhyme, defiantly, with the fascistic painting of the day. One quintet of bathers looks disconcertingly like the marmoreal Aryan nudes of Adolf Ziegler, Hitler’s favorite artist.
Picabia, who stayed in southern France during the war, made some blandishments to Marshal Pétain in the press, and he spoke less than kindly about Jews. Yet if his late girl-on-girl paintings make us uncomfortable today, it’s not because they’re actually propaganda; it’s that they’re slippery enough that, in another context, they might be. For an artist who hated consistency, even the wickedest of styles was worth picking up for a time, if you could dismantle its preconceptions by doing so. That, this historic show affirms, was how Picabia thought of style: not as an outgrowth of his own creation, but as a readymade set of procedures that he could fiddle with, turn inside out, and finally break apart. His fraudulence was his greatest genius. He was the loser who won it all.
If I ever imagined meeting Australian actor and comedian Magda Szubanski, it wasn’t here: in a plush Chelsea hotel, complete with a silver tea set and a pile of tiny sandwiches. But Szubanski is entirely unaffected, immediately forthcoming and soothingly at ease. “This is all a bit My Fair Lady, isn’t it? I could bloody murder a sarnie,” she announces, before charming the waitress – also a Magda – with a brief but effusive exchange in Polish. “I do have to be careful,” she says afterwards. “I’m too good at accents, so when I speak other languages, people always assume I speak it better than I do.”
That ear for voices and eye for appearances has fuelled Szubanski’s astonishing roll call of iconic performances over 30 years. Perhaps her most famous, certainly overseas, is the ungainly “second best friend” Sharon Strzelecki in Kath & Kim. But before that there was an abundance of sketch-show characters that made her a star in Australian homes: the oblivious chat show host Pixie-Anne Wheatley, lip-pursing saleswoman Chenille, the skinhead Michelle. On the big screen, she was the cuddly farmer’s wife Esme Hoggett in Babe, along with small turns as a maid in The Golden Compass and a penguin in Happy Feet. No matter how tiny the part, it is hard to think of another Australian actor who can spark such joy in an audience. I remember seeing Indigenous Australian musical Bran Nue Dae and hearing a little chorus of pleased hums go up around the cinema at her brief turn as a randy tuckshop owner (“We’ve got hot sausage rolls … ”).
While a varied lot, Szubanski’s characters are united by their guilelessness and often, their grotesqueness. But her willingness to be painfully, hilariously embarrassing sits at odds with the person she reveals in her memoir, Reckoning: someone pursued by anxiety and depression, self-critical, constantly aware of her very being.
Starting with what may be the most tantalising first sentence of any book this year – “If you had met my father you would have never, not for an instant, have thought he was an assassin” – Reckoning, which was published in Australia in 2015, is as much a biography of her father as it is about her. Zbigniew Szubanski is ever present in the book, as a figure of both love and mystery. A Polish Catholic, Zbigniew joined the Polish execution squad, Unit 993/W Revenge Company, aged just 19, killing Gestapo officers and Polish collaborators in Warsaw. His story is a series of incredible close calls: hiding Jews in the family home, escaping the Warsaw Uprising through a sewer, fleeing from the infamous Lamsdorf Death March and finally being liberated by Russian soldiers from a POW camp. He then met Szubanski’s mother in Scotland and moved to Liverpool, where Magda was born in 1961.
How does a Polish assassin end up as a father in Australia, especially one who, according to Szubanski, relished the mundanities of suburbia? Much of Reckoning sees daughter sorting through the puzzle of her father, picking apart moments where they clashed and considering events from before Magda was even born, to come to an understanding about how trauma can be passed from one generation to another. Eight years of writing resulted in an 850-page draft and also what she calls “a reactive depression”, from recalling the worst of her family’s history. “If you don’t dissociate, if you let yourself feel it, it is gonna mess with you,” she says. “I felt the least I could do was witness it and feel it. Some of it was just harrowing. Some of the things my father told me were unbearable, y’know?”
Reckoning never reads like it would have been cathartic to write; Szubanski isn’t sure herself. “If it was, it was the slowest kind of catharsis. It is like if you do yoga every day and it changes you over time. It’s the same thing – you’re using your psychological and emotional and moral muscles as you write. It really changed me.” But she does feel like she now understands her father better. “There was no bitterness in him. I have a real admiration for him and also for the subtlety of his moral philosophy. I think he was very hard on himself. But that is what PTSD is; he lost his belief in his own innocence, his own goodness. Most of us go through life thinking we’re good people and we can afford to because we’ve never been put to the bloody test! But the Poles, the Jews – some of the dilemmas they were forced into are awful. You just have to hope that it never happens in your lifetime.”
The Szubanskis migrated to Australia when Magda was five. A “shy showoff” with a name even she couldn’t pronounce until she was 10, Szubanski’s recollections of feeling like an outsider are painful to read. Clashing with her father, obsessing over the implications of her crush on Marcia Brady, struggling with grades and then her weight. Then a moment of clarity came, in the form of a part in a school production of Salad Days. “I was no longer an outsider flailing on the periphery of life,” she writes. “I was standing at its red-hot centre.”
Even now, she speaks of that moment with reverence, almost like she doesn’t believe it happened herself. “The moment my foot hit that stage, I just felt at home. I felt at ease. And I still do. Maybe not so much as I get older and I forget lines – that’s a whole nightmare of its own.”
Being an outsider gave her a keen eye and ear for what made up being Australian, which helped on shows like Fast Forward and The D-Generation where she often played bogans (Australian louts) – to great effect. “I always felt like I was holding on to Australianness with my fingernails,” she says. “When you are on the outside like that, you can observe while you’re madly trying to understand it. It actually took me quite a long time to feel Australian. And I still don’t, at 55. I am very connected to the European side as well. I don’t think you have to choose – it’s not that if you love one it means you hate the other. The more we can become less tribal and more global, the better.”
In 2012, Szubanski came out as gay on national television, a decision she says felt natural. But the timing was crucial; after years on television and film, crafting some of the most famous characters in Australian comedy, she had become what she calls “a gay sleeper cell” and was somewhat protected from any backlash. “I was at peak fame, so I used it,” she says. “To be honest, I reckon if I came out earlier, it would not have worked so well.”
At one point in Reckoning, she likens her sexuality to being “delayed at takeoff and … stuck on the runway ever since”. Does she still feel like that?
“Probably,” she says, and guffaws through a mouthful of sandwich. “In fits and starts it has taken off. But homophobia really did have an impact on relationships. For people of my generation, it was a trauma.” She now watches younger LGBTQI people holding hands in public or getting married with “a slight sadness – I think, ‘God, what would my life be like if I had had that opportunity’. But while that’s true, it ain’t all sorted yet. I don’t think the damage done by external and internalised homophobia has been processed yet. We’ve gone from a discourse of shame to a discourse of pride, with nothing but a parade to get us through. You don’t undo millennia of shame and persecution overnight.”
Coming out came with a louder political voice: she is fiercely critical of the Australian government and its refusal to allow marriage equality, and is particularly vocal about politicians with controversial views, such as Nationals MP George Christensen, who likened an LGBT education programme in schools to child grooming. “He got a primary vote of 38,000 out of a population of 23m. How the fuck does he get a say? I’ve got more Twitter followers than that,” she scoffs.
These days, Szubanski has just finished filming Ben Elton’s latest film Three Summers and says that while more acting is planned, she’d love to write another book. (“Maybe fiction? We’ll see.”) Szubanski has won an intimidating number of book awards – book of the year and best biography the Australian Book Industry Awards, a NSW Premier’s literary award, a Victorian community history award – and is enjoying the accolades, despite not entirely recognising Reckoning as her own. “It is a little bit like when a dog farts and it looks around like ‘Did I do that?’ I feel like that. ‘Is that me?’” she jokes, before recalling the night she won the two ABIAs. “I was feeling really up myself, and then I suddenly got teary. I had been too caught up in the awards. The book is really about learning to communicate with people in a real way. And that’s the soul-nourishing thing.”
Our return to Stars Hollow is nearly here. On Friday, Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life will arrive on Netflix, finally (hopefully) satisfying all the questions we’ve had about the characters in the show ended in 2007. With all of the original cast (except Edward Hermann, who died in December 2014) – plus some new faces – set to appear in the new episodes, we have a lot of hope for what’s to come. When Gilmore Girls drew to a close nearly a decade ago, Rory was single and on her way to a new job and Lorelei and Luke had reunited. But what now? Here are six questions that need to be answered.
Much of the original series was marked by fighting and tension between Lorelei Gilmore, played by Lauren Graham, and Emily Gilmore, played by Kelly Bishop. The mother-daughter pair never quite got along and it was stressful to watch. Sure, they had their differences but now, after all they’ve been through, can’t they just hug and make up? Luckily Graham recently revealed to TV Line that some “healing” will happen between the two, especially in light Richard Gilmore’s death before the series opens. “The healing that happens between Lorelei and Emily is such a long time coming,” Graham said. “And because Richard’s absence is such a big part of our story, it really meant a lot to me to grow their relationship a little bit.”
Let’s be real: Kirk (Sean Gunn) was the best part of the original Gilmore Girls. His ridiculous antics offered a continual sense of comic relief, even when the drama between the other characters was high. His dance from season six remains ingrained in every viewer’s mind, as well as his incredible short film from season two. There’s such an authentic, unabashed sense of life in the character, as silly as he can be, and we want to see him in every episode of the new chapters. And maybe he has a follow-up dance to his original.
The show will surely take viewers back to Luke’s infamous diner throughout the four mini-movie episodes and he will likely have some quips about the ladies’ obsession with caffeine. Maybe he’ll have some informed opinions about the “java gene” or the claim that three to five cups a day can prevent heart attacks? If you’re planning to binge the series, I recommend grabbing a mug (or pot) and settling in.
Rory, played by Alexis Bledel, doesn’t need a man. She’s proven that as a character over the course of the original series, but that doesn’t mean that we don’t want to see her happy. Netflix has confirmed that all of Rory’s love interests – Dean, Jess, Logan – will be returning to the new episodes. Whether she’ll actually end up with one of them (please not Dean) is another question. Or maybe there’s a new guy in Rory’s future. Jess has always been a fan favorite, probably because he respected Rory’s intelligence in a way her other suitors didn’t, but does he have his life together in a way where he can really be there for her? So let’s hope for the best for Rory (not Dean) and cross our collective fingers that she gets success both at home and in her career.
Gilmore Girls is famous for the speed of its dialogue and its esoteric wit (remember “Oy, with the poodles already”?). The trailer for the new season makes it clear that there is a lot of rapid-fire chat between the characters, which could be ideal for the age of Twitter where zingers can become internet memes quicker than you can say “crying Michael Jordan”. So please, Amy Sherman-Palladino, give us some new quotable lines. Twitter is ready.
The world of Gilmore Girls is one of lightheartedness and positivity, even when there’s drama or fighting. It’s the sort of show you watch when the real world gets dark and you need a respite. Stars Hollow is a town we’d all love to inhabit and through these episodes we’ve been able to. So as the story of Rory and Lorelei and Emily continues, we want to see them happy. Gilmore Girls is not The Sopranos, so there’s no reason for an ambiguous fade to black. In seeing these women happy, we’re happy, and that’s important in today’s world. Different TV shows fill different boxes for the viewers and Gilmore Girls tells us: “It’s going to be OK.” What that happy ending is could be a lot of things, but we want to see everyone stroll off into the sunset – at least until Netflix green-lights more episodes.
Norman Rockwell is the great healer of American art. His paintings reconcile midwestern values with progressive ideals, artistic traditionalism with optimism about the modern world, old-fashioned conservatism with liberal decency.
It has been noticed by Rockwell’s granddaughter that a picture of his in the Oval Office was moved before Obama’s meeting with President-elect Trump, so that it hung behind Trump when they spoke to reporters.
No, Obama did not “troll” Trump, but it is a pointed act. This was an optimistic gesture of hope, that in office Trump will learn to represent all Americans and the best American values. It fits well with the responsible and constructive approach Obama has taken since his successor was elected.
The picture is of the Statue of Liberty’s torch seen from behind against a bright blue sky. Courageous workers are spectacularly balanced on it as they repair this icon of a welcoming US. Even without the fact that one of the tiny figures is African American, this would be a significant image to hang behind a president-elect who has spat out hateful rhetoric about building walls and deporting people. For the Statue of Liberty specifically holds up her torch to welcome immigrants as its inscription by Emma Lazarus famously declares: “Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free …”
Rockwell’s painting is a silent rebuke to Trump’s vicious words against immigrants and minorities, and getting him photographed in front of it was a last expression of the “hope” with which Obama launched his own presidency. Far from a despairing denunciation, this coupling of Trump with Rockwell is an invitation to the new president to reject the politics of hate and embrace a bipartisan spirit of American tolerance.
The recent history of this Rockwell painting is enough to reveal that. Rockwell’s fame rests on his work as an illustrator, especially for the Saturday Evening Post, whose covers by him defined the mainstream US in the mid-20th century. This image was a Post cover for its 6 July 1946 issue, and was owned by Steven Spielberg. In 1994, the director donated it to the White House and it has hung in the Oval Office ever since. In other words it has been kept there by three very different presidents from opposing political parties: Bill Clinton, George W Bush and Barack Obama.
This is an image of both American freedom and inclusiveness that can speak to the beliefs of both Bush and Obama. Can it also speak to Donald Trump and help him see the generous light of Liberty’s torch?
If any artist can reconcile America’s divisions Rockwell can. After 9/11, the Guggenheim Museum in New York showed a powerful retrospective of his art. It was timely then, and his vision is needed even more now. For Rockwell defies expectations about what the US is. He can teach rightwingers that tolerance is part of the American dream and sophisticated liberals that homely midwestern ways (and artistic tastes) are not all bad. His famous painting of a Thanksgiving meal defines the holiday as perfectly as Charles Dickens defined Christmas. It is a moist-eyed slice of sheer sentimental patriotism. But anyone noticing the spectacular whiteness of the family in this picture should keep out of the comments below until you’ve also looked at his 1963 painting The Problem We All Live With.
It portrays a black girl walking to school to assert her civil rights, and in 2013 was borrowed by the White House, at President Obama’s request, to mark the 50th anniversary of Ruby Bridges’ real-life historic walk. Obama, clearly, is a Rockwell fan and putting his Statue of Liberty into the picture with Trump was a gesture worthy of the artist himself: nice, decent, and holding it to be self-evident that everyone is created equal. Let’s hope that such decency is infectious.
The latest set completes Jean-Efflam Bavouzet’s Beethoven cycle. With the 32 sonatas grouped chronologically, it has emerged in three-disc volumes at roughly two-year intervals. This, the third and final, is necessarily the weightiest in musical terms, taking in the last 11 sonatas, from the F major Op 54 to the final trilogy of Opp 109, 110 and 111.
Bavouzet is a reliable if not always particularly probing guide to these endlessly fascinating works. The qualities that were so impressive in his polished performances of the early sonatas – warm tone, clean keyboard textures, smartly sprung rhythms and, above all, the pervading sense of freshness and enthusiasm – also emerge regularly in these works. Without being insistently barnstorming, his account of the Appassionata, Op 57 has an irresistible athleticism, while the finales of both Les Adieux, Op 81a and the A major Sonata, Op 101 really do project the energy that courses through the music, without trying too hard to make musical points. Bavouzet is in his element with the outer movements of the Hammerklavier, Op 106, too, rendering them effortlessly lucid and making light of their technical challenges, even if his account of the great Adagio is short on real profundity.
Not everything works as well as those particular movements. The earlier movements of Op 101, and the E minor Sonata, Op 90 that immediately precedes it, are among the big disappointments here, more matter-of-fact and rather routinely impersonal in comparison with much of the playing. Occasionally resurfacing in these sonatas is the failure to engage with longer-range issues of form and inner drama – which was a disappointing feature of some of his performances of the larger-scale sonatas, such as the Op 31 set and the Waldstein, Op 53 in the second volume in the series. Bavouzet’s account of the E major Op 109 is suitably deft and exquisitely jewel-like, while those of Op 110 in A flat and the final great C minor sonata, Op 111 are at times a touch prosaic. Those who have stuck with this cycle up to now, though, are unlikely to be disappointed by most of what is here.
It was with this, his third opera, that Puccini made his international breakthrough. In 1894, a year after its Turin premiere, music critic and later playwright George Bernard Shaw welcomed Manon Lescaut to Covent Garden, even hazarding a prescient guess that, on this basis alone, “Puccini seems to me more like the heir of Verdi than any of his rivals.”
Founded on the 34-year-old Italian’s exploratory, post-Wagnerian harmony and conspicuous flair for orchestration, the score’s remarkable technical assurance impresses again in this revival of Jonathan Kent’s production, first seen two years ago.
Antonio Pappano returns to conduct the piece, and as with his many other Puccini performances at this address he combines precision with flexibility while emphasising the composer’s skill in shaping complex musical structures to dramatic ends. The intermezzo before act three – where Wagner’s influence on Puccini is at its most assertive – sweeps along with a terrific emotional power, while elsewhere Pappano is, as always, highly responsive to the needs of his singers.
Prévost published the first edition of his enduring novel in 1731. Puccini and his anonymous librettists themselves updated the action of the opera to the second half of the 18th century; Kent and his designer Paul Brown bring the story bang up to date, equating Manon with a modern sex-worker and her exploitative brother and his associates with contemporary traffickers.
It’s a debatable move, most effective in the opera’s first two acts, though by the time we reach the third, narrative focus and clarity are compromised. In the original, Manon is taken on board a ship to be deported from France to America. Here, she and the other condemned women walk a carpet of shame in front of an audience whose derision is egged on by a glitzy TV host, though where they are and whither going is left vague. The final scene finds the victimised heroine expiring in the arms of Des Grieux on a crumbling piece of motorway that could be anywhere.
Apart from Pappano’s conducting, the fine playing of the orchestra and the consistent engagement of the chorus, where this revival scores most highly is in Sondra Radvanovsky’s Manon. Her clean, accurate and luminously voiced performance shows a discriminating sense of style that elevates her interpretation into a higher class of musicianship, and a keen appreciation of the text’s significance.
By her side Aleksandrs Antonenko’s big, beefy Des Grieux is comparatively rough, though he’s undeniably ready. His may not be an ideal tenor for the role – there’s not much lyric warmth to his metallic tone, and even less nuance – but it’s an exciting sound, and he hurls himself enthusiastically at the volatile score’s many ultra-impassioned moments.
No one else gets much of a look-in in this opera, but vocal heavyweight Eric Halfvarson embodies effectively Manon’s predatory admirer Geronte, while Levente Molnár suggests the easygoing sleaziness of the brother who pimps her and Luis Gomes the youthful vitality and bonhomie of student Edmondo.
‘For heaven’s sake, don’t send us any essays on the Russian soul,” her editor told the New York journalist Rheta Childe Dorr before she left for Petrograd in May 1917. “Everybody else has done that. Go to Russia and do a job of reporting.” It was brilliant advice and in Petrograd 1917 journalists had a story no intrepid correspondent could fail to be excited by: a once-powerful country losing a foreign war, millions being forcibly conscripted to an unpopular cause, massive flows of internally displaced populations, widespread malnutrition and disease, and a vacuum where the government should be.
By the time Dorr arrived in the Russian capital, the tsar had already been forced to abdicate. Two other north Americans, Florence Harper, a Canadian reporter, and Douglas Thompson, a US photographer, had covered the collapse of his authority with the frenzied excitement of journalists knowing they were at the scene of momentous events. After another day of watching crowds searching for bread while Cossack horsemen scattered them in all directions, Thompson wrote to his wife: “I smell trouble and thank God I am here to get the photographs of it.”
With the centenary of Russia’s great convulsion soon to be on us, Helen Rappaport has produced one of what will be a wave of articles and books to mark the February and October revolutions. It is, she says, the painstaking result of 20 years of trawling through foreigners’ accounts. Some are well-known versions, such as John Reed’s Ten Days that Shook the World. Others are forgotten memoirs published soon after 1917. Many of her sources are bundles of letters held in obscure library archives.
They are from diplomats, nannies, businessmen, Red Cross nurses, aid workers, journalists and spies. There was Emmeline Pankhurst, who stopped campaigning for women’s votes as soon as the first world war broke out. After touring Britain to urge women to support the war effort, she hastened to Petrograd in June 1917 with Prime Minister Lloyd George’s backing to try to block Russia’s leftwing revolutionaries from bringing Russia out of the war with Germany.
There was the writer Somerset Maugham, who went to the Russian capital as a British spy and sent encrypted messages to his London controllers in which Lenin was “Davis”, Trotsky was “Cole” and Alexander Kerensky, the self-important leader of the provisional government, was “Lane”. Like Pankhurst, Maugham was working to support Kerensky and subvert German propaganda encouraging Russia to give up.
More to the left was Arthur Ransome, who was to return to Russia in 1919 to write sympathetic pieces for the Manchester Guardian. In 1917, he was working for the Daily News. Racked by dysentery and the spartan conditions of life in a chaotic city, he went home for a rest and a spot of fishing in September 1917 and missed the October revolution, even though he was convinced the Bolsheviks were preparing to seize power. Earlier in May, he had complained in a letter to his mother: “You can’t imagine how sick I am of it all. At the same time things here keep happening so fast that I am equally pulled towards not risking being away … I’d give my eyes to get out of Petrograd … Petrograd undiluted would turn the sanest man crazy.”
His accounts, as well as those of the lively non-journalistic sources Rappaport uses, give an authentic sense of months of chaos, marked by surging crowds, looted bakeries and outbreaks of gunfire, some seemingly random and some viciously aimed. In between come intervals of apparent upper-class normality, with champagne receptions at the embassies and trips to fancy shops. Foreigners spent an inordinate amount of time at the ballet, just as they did in Moscow in the more settled environment of the cold war.
We get a sense of surging crowds, looted bakeries and gunfire – interspersed with champagne receptions at the embassy
Even Reed, the great enthusiast of revolution, had tickets for the Mariinsky for the evening after Trotsky sent Red Guards to occupy the Central Telegraph Office in Petrograd, the precursor to the storming of the Winter Palace a day later. Fortunately, Reed sniffed out that something was afoot as he and three other American journalists strolled through the streets. “The whole town is out tonight – all but the prostitutes,” Reed remarked. He and his friends had the sense to abandon the trip to the ballet and head instead to Bolshevik headquarters at the Smolny Institute. There, after midnight, they clambered on to a lorry full of soldiers and sailors and got to the Winter Palace just after its guards had surrendered.
Revolutionary change is always an amalgam of confusion, in which the tipping point, when power shifts, often seems banal at the moment it happens. Away from the epicentre, life – at least initially – goes on as before. The trams still run. Parents take children to school.
Rappaport’s sources give a vivid account of this complexity. Yet her book lacks two things. The first is sophisticated analysis of the big issues that divided Russia’s politicians and their impassioned supporters. Unsurprisingly, as representatives of a privileged elite, the British, American and French members of the expat community in Petrograd whose memoirs and diaries Rappaport quotes, as well as most of the foreign reporters, were hostile to the Bolsheviks and the other Russian advocates of radical change. Rappaport’s own views instinctively reflect her sources’ attitudes, so that her writing lacks impartiality, let alone curiosity as to why so many Petrograders wanted revolution, beyond the broad-brush point that tens of thousands were hungry and impoverished. Instead, she uses rightwing tabloid cliches about “Bolsheviks and anarchists whipping up protests”, “the worst Bolshevik-led troublemakers in the garrison”, “feverish meetings inflamed by speeches from Trotsky”, “familiar overblown Bolshevik rhetoric” and “how difficult it would be, once stirred, to bring this violent rabble under control”.
The second problem is the lack of Russian voices in the book. Rappaport makes no pretence that hers is anything but an account of foreigners’ experiences in someone else’s revolution. Nevertheless, a few chapters on what Russians were thinking would have provided an alternative to the parade of outsiders’ prejudice she offers. It is not, of course, her fault that most of her sources were not Russian-speakers and therefore unable to listen to Russians talking about the misery of class oppression and their hopes of revolution. During the cold war and since, it became customary for most embassies, foreign media organisations and businesses to insist that their representatives in Russia learned the language before they went or while they were there; in 1917, that was not the case. For top diplomats, at least until that year, it did not matter much that the British and French ambassadors in Petrograd spoke no Russian, since the court language was French and ministers also spoke German or English.
Whether they were enthusiasts, sceptics or critics of the revolution, most reporters in Petrograd in 1917 were not participants with tongues and ears but merely eyewitnesses, albeit often with a talent for powerful description. Rappaport chooses their graphic accounts brilliantly. What today’s editors like to call the backstory is the bit that evades her.
• To order Caught in the Revolution for £20.50 (RRP £25) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
A handwritten poem by Anne Frank, the Jewish girl who kept a diary of two years spent in hiding from the Nazis, has sold at auction for €140,000 (£119,000), more than four times its reserve price.
The sale, to an unnamed online bidder, took just two minutes at the Bubb Kuyper auction house in the Dutch city of Haarlem.
The text was a rare example of Anne’s handwriting for sale. “Over the last 40 years, only four or five documents signed by the teenager have gone under the hammer,” Thijs Blankevoort, the auction house’s co-director, said.
The text in Dutch was dated 28 March 1942, three months before Anne and her family went into hiding in Amsterdam.
The poem, written in black ink on a notebook-sized piece of white paper that has slightly discoloured with age, was addressed “Dear Cri-cri,” and signed “In memory, from Anne Frank.”
About 20 collectors were present in the sales room at the auction house, with others bidding by telephone and online. The reserve price was set at €30,000.
In 1988, a series of letters between Anne, her older sister Margot and American pen pals sold for $165,000 (£133,000). In May, a 1925 edition of Grimm’s fairy tales with both girls’ names written on the title page fetched $50,000 – twice the estimated price – in New York.
Anne was born in Frankfurt in 1929, four years before Hitler came to power in Germany. With the rise of the Nazis, her family fled to Amsterdam, where her father Otto established a business and Anne and Margot attended school.
But the family came under threat again when the Nazis occupied the Netherlands in 1940. Jews faced curfews, were forbidden from owning a business and were forced to wear a yellow star. Children could only attend Jewish schools.
In July 1942, Margot was ordered to report for relocation to a work camp, forcing the family into hiding in a secret annexe above the offices of Otto’s business, ownership of which he had transferred to a friend.
A month before they hid, Otto had given Anne an autograph book bound with white-and-red-checked cloth and closed with a small lock for her 13th birthday. It was in this book Anne wrote her legendary diary, starting each entry “Dear Kitty”.
For two years, she wrote about life – fear, boredom, confusion – in confinement. In August 1944, the family were discovered and sent to concentration camps. Anne and Margot died of typhus in February 1945, a few weeks before the camp was liberated by the British army.
Anne’s diary was kept safe by a family friend and later returned to Otto, who survived the camps. In 1947, he published The Diary of a Young Girl, which has since sold more than 30m copies in 67 languages.
Anne’s diary is used to teach schoolchildren around the world about the Holocaust. The original is on display in Anne Frank House in Amsterdam, which attracted about 1.2 million visitors last year.
‘I’m a belligerent, proud, willing optimist,” says Joyce DiDonato, who is unwilling to do anything by halves. Conceived in response to last year’s Paris terrorist attacks, her latest project, In War and Peace, is at times a sombre exploration of “our brutal nature and our elevated humanity” that celebrates the harmonising potential of music and aims, not always successfully, to overturn the conventions of the classical concert.
With Il Pomo d’Oro under Maxim Emelyanychev, she performs a programme of baroque arias that examine the nature of conflict and reconciliation, while director Ralf Pleger deploys multimedia techniques, sometimes distractingly, to transform the concert hall into a theatrical space. Haze drifts above the instrumentalists. Coloured lights flicker and flash, and indistinct video images flow across walls. A dancer, Manuel Palazzo, sinewy and graceful, hovers at DiDonato’s side and performs wiry solos in front of the players.
There’s no doubting the depth of DiDonato’s commitment or the brilliance of her singing. Dressed in Vivienne Westwood gowns, she looks every bit the diva. She spins out the lines of slow Handel arias with exquisite finesse and tackles Jommelli’s exacting coloratura with tangible joy. She brings a fierce sense of drama to her characterisations of Leonardo Leo’s traumatised Andromaca and Handel’s manipulative Agrippina, determined to obtain political power for her monstrous son, Nero. The orchestral playing is by turns sensuous and stark: Anna Fusek’s staggering recorder obbligato in Augeletti, Che Cantate from Handel’s Rinaldo, nearly steals the show.
The women were there from the beginning of course, whether in America, in Asia or Africa, whether as settlers or soldiers’ wives, as part of the “fishing fleet” to India or convicts in New South Wales. Like the men, they sailed across the world in cramped and dangerous conditions in order to live in often punishing conditions. Mostly, though, they were too busy surviving to write about it.
Among the splendid exceptions was Lady Anne Barnard, an early traveller in Africa. But then, as I discovered in researching her adventurous and bewilderingly eventful life, Anne wrote a great deal about everything. We were just unaware of it.
Her Cape diaries and journals from 1797 to 1802 have been published and mined by historians for the light they cast on life in the early colony, for her visions of a land of plenty at a time when imperial ambitions were confined to the east. An ardent advocate of settlement in Africa, she was yet an egalitarian, with notions of a universal humanity that jarred with those of her fellow colonists.
Exploring her vast and otherwise unpublished papers, I found that she illuminated much more besides. Living at the centre of Georgian society, she set down her observations in sparkling prose on contemporaries while playing a key role in the Prince of Wales’s secret marriage and visiting France during the revolution. Though born into the Scottish aristocracy, Anne defied convention, rejected at least 12 proposals and lived independently as a poet and musician, artist and hostess, before marrying an army officer 12 years her junior.
Their years together in Africa were her happiest. Travelling by wagon into the interior in 1798, she wrote of a new Canaan: “Here is scarcity but here will be plenty”; and of her love for her husband and their shared landscape: “Both gay, attached to each other, blessing the Great Lord who form’d the wonder before us … Let no one despair, let no heart sink with despondency: Here I am, said I again, I never thought I should have been here at all! Africa – Africa!”
These are my 10 choices of books about the remarkable lives of women in the British Empire.
1. Original Letters from India by Eliza FayThanks to EM Forster, who described Mrs Fay as a work of art and arranged the publication of her letters, this indefatigable character remains as vivid today as when recounting her first journey to India in 1779, across the desert in Egypt and the Indian Ocean. She was unknown, unconnected and suffered misfortune upon misfortune, including imprisonment under Hyder Ali, but still made no fewer than four voyages to the east – one was quite enough for most travellers – where she died penniless. No extract can do justice to her sharp eye and sharper pen. Mrs Fay must be read.
2. Journal of the Disasters in Affghanistan by Florentia SaleHarry Flashman, who had plenty to say about women and empire, called Lady Sale a vinegary old dragon with a tongue like a carving knife. Well, what else would one expect from a cad who quailed before spirited women as fast as he fled the catastrophe of Afghanistan in 1842?
Sale was, in fact, cultured as well as tough. Her diary of life in Kabul records the pleasure of sharing her geraniums and cauliflowers with “Affghan gentlemen”. Even after they turned hostile, Florentia thought them “a fine, manly-looking set”. The British commanders, on the other hand, she perceived as a pathetic lot, from the hapless General Elphinstone to various “reprehensible croakers”. Her own mettle was visible during the massacre that followed, her wound being quickly dismissed: “I had fortunately only one ball in my arm; three others passed through my poshteen near the shoulder”. During nine months of captivity she endured filth, fever and cold while writing a compelling record of the entire calamity.
3. The Ordeal of Elizabeth Marsh by Linda ColleyA striking feature about women who wrote about the early days of empire is how many experienced captivity: their tales from dungeons run by brutes made for a publishing sensation. Elizabeth Marsh did her time in Morocco in the 1760s, when Britons really could be slaves. Colley, however, has gone far beyond The Female Captive in producing this extraordinarily rich biography of an adventurer who did not stop at preserving her virginity from the harem, but remained “in motion for most of her life”, which she reshaped, as did so many, in India.
4. Travels in West Africa by Mary KingsleyEven among this indomitable breed of women, Mary stands out for her daring. She came to Africa almost a century after Anne Barnard with a keen interest in natural history and the eye of an early anthropologist, recording impressions from Sierra Leone to Angola, Congo and Niger. She was barely less bold as a standard bearer for African culture, challenging perceptions about the colonial mission before dying as nobly as she had lived, nursing Boer prisoners of war at the Cape in 1900.
5. White Mughals by William DalrympleDalrymple’s wonderful book is a saga of the enduring love affair – cultural, aesthetic, imaginative – that a certain kind of Briton enjoyed with India. At the heart of it, though, lies the tragic figure of Khair un-Nissa, a Mughal princess who won the heart and soul of James Kirkpatrick, the resident at Hyderabad. She bore him two children, yet her life in dissipated European society was short and tough. She died, aged 27, in 1813.
6. Domestic Manners of the Americans by Fanny TrollopeThe travel book by Anthony Trollope’s mother is actually postcolonial, having been published a half century after the war of independence. But it brings to transatlantic observations all the prim disapproval to be expected from a mother country of such American habits as spitting and slavery. Many readers were offended, but Mark Twain rose coolly above the outcry, proclaiming his enthusiasm for “Dame Trollope” who, he said, “knew her subject well and … set it forth fairly and squarely”.
7. Out of Africa by Karen BlixenShe had a farm in Africa, in the Ngong Hills, and wrote about that landscape, its people and wildlife with a passion and lyricism that seem a world away from a decadent colonial Kenya. The reality is that her aristocratic Swedish husband could have stepped straight out of White Mischief and her lover, Denys Finch-Hatton, was forever taking to the air. But in Blixen’s Africa, beauty prevails.
8. My Brilliant Career by Miles FranklinAn Australian novel, born in the outback to a writer who was a teenager when she set down her dream of escaping Possum Gully for a more refined world. So she did, while retaining the independence an upbringing in the bush inspired: “To me,” she wrote (in 1895), “the Prince of Wales will be no more than a shearer, unless when I meet him he displays some personality apart from his princeship – otherwise he can go hang.”
9. The Grass Is Singing by Doris LessingA novel out of Africa, and one that anticipated the end of empire with relish. Although raised on a farm in southern Rhodesia, Lessing was always a rebel and her debut work took an astonishingly bold line in exploring the doomed relationship between a white farmer’s wife and a black servant – she vindictive and racist, yet ultimately a helplessly dependent victim. I spoke to Lessing once, long after its publication in 1950, in the light of Mugabe’s Zimbabwe. It was as if she had anticipated it all.
10. The Empire Triptych by Jan MorrisI read Pax Britannica when Jan was still James, I was still in my 20s and empire seemed still within reach. Along with its companions, Heaven’s Command and Farewell the Trumpets, it may feel dated to a later generation, not to say insufficiently infused with guilt. But it remains a literary landmark, honest and quite beautifully written, of our past and ourselves when we had “a taste for things foreign and incongruous, a recurrent yearning to break out of our gentle northern setting, all greens and greys, into more vivid places where fortunes can be made, outrageous enterprises undertaken, and the restrictive rules of scale and conduct flamboyantly disregarded.”
Does this sound familiar? “The American people are turning us off. They’ve been clobbered by Vietnam, Watergate, the inflation, the depression. They’ve turned off, shot up … the American people want someone to articulate their rage.” And how about this? “There is no America. There is no democracy. There is only IBM and ITT, and ATT and DuPont, Dow, Union-Carbide and Exxon. The world is a business … it has been ever since man crawled up out of the slime.”
Change the historical events, change the names of the conglomerates, and these speeches could have been written yesterday morning about, or by, President-elect Donald J Trump. He is Network screenwriter Paddy Chayefsky’s nightmare made real, his blistering satire come completely true just in time for the film’s 40th anniversary this week. If Trump hadn’t settled on Make America Great Again for a slogan, he could have easily run on “I’m as mad as hell and I’m not gonna take it any more!”
Network is like a time machine: when it was released four decades ago this week it more or less accurately predicted the state of media as it is 40 years later. It mourns the original golden age of television – the 1950s – of which Paddy Chayefsky was a major and emblematic figure, but it partakes of all that era’s shortcomings, too: overstatement, speechifying, ranting, self-indulgent writing, sledgehammer subtlety.
Trump could have easily run on a slogan of 'I’m as mad as hell and I’m not gonna take it any more!'
It also, nonetheless, looks startlingly like a work that would fit snugly into the current golden age of television alongside shows like The Newsroom and Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip. The creator of those shows, Aaron Sorkin, even went so far as to invoke Chayefsky when he received his screenwriting Oscar for The Social Network.
Network’s most famous virtue is its extreme and eerie prescience about where the news media would go in the next decades. Howard Beale, “the mad prophet of the airwaves”, lurks behind any number of real-life media ranters and screamers of our own time, from Bill O’Reilly to Sean Hannity, Glenn Beck to Alex Jones.
Faye Dunaway’s carnivorous network suit Diana Christensen – Sammy Glick via Tracy Flick – is derived from young TV execs of the 1970s who were accused of infantilizing the medium. People like NBC daytime programmer Lin Bolen and Fred Silverman, who serially headed all three networks, in particular. Network takes the side of the old against the young, seeing youth as a destructive, insatiable, Darwinian force that will ultimately usurp William Holden’s ageing newsroom chief Max Schumacher.
Nobody wants news any more, says Christensen, as she ruthlessly lays out a template for the coming age of “disinfotainment” and canned news-porn. The first step of which is to bring the independent news division under the heel of network entertainment programming. What Shumacher dreams up in a drunken haze as a joke, she makes reality – or reality television, as it had yet to be known.
Another of Network’s accidental byproducts is the nostalgia one feels right from its opening shot of four TV network news anchors – three real, one fictional. In those pre-Fox years, of course, there were only three networks, and they underpinned what was left of the American consensus after Goldwater and Nixon, Vietnam and Watergate. It is a pre-digital realm of rotary phones, filing cabinets, steno pads and typewriters; the newsroom is an exact match for the newsroom in All the President’s Men, also released during the bicentennial, and the idealistic yin to Network’s pessimistic yang.
And the mid-1970s was almost insane enough to obviate satire entirely. Network is embedded in the very real world of 1975, satire notwithstanding. We hear of “the Lennon deportation”, the two recent assassination attempts on President Gerald Ford, the Opec price hike, and the Patty Hearst kidnapping. Indeed, the movie mentions multiple heiress-terrorists and offers us one of its own, played by Kathy Cronkite, daughter of Walter, America’s most trusted anchorman.
Forty years later, Network is half a masterpiece. At more or less the one-hour mark, right after the mad-as-hell speech and 60 minutes of very sure-footed satire, it loses all steam and caves in on itself. Chayefsky falls prey to all the spell-it-out vices of the golden age of television, and one can imagine it all in black-and-white, being broadcast in 1956. Character names aren’t exactly subtle: Robert Duvall’s shark-like executive, prone to budget-slashing, is named Hackett, while the affair between Dunaway and Holden plays like bad Philco Playhouse dross.
Everybody gets a chance to yell at great length, and with the exception of Duvall (who is here turned up to maximum Charlie-Don’t-Surf!), few of them carry it off well. Even Mr Jensen’s apocalyptic bollocking of Peter Finch (“Valhalla, Mr Beale, Please sit down …”) seems faintly risible now. And the dialogue betrays a working-class autodidact’s over-fondness for Big Words: “multivariant”, “auspicatory”, “eraculate”, “intractable and adamantine”!
Chayefsky, a creature of postwar television, despises what it has become (he’d quit TV in disgust in 1960). The young are all vacant, amoral gargoyles. The black characters are near-racist caricatures puking up demented Marxist-Leninist verbiage while eating fried chicken and cradling machine guns. Satire repeatedly merges with spite and contempt – for characters and audience – putting Network up there with A Face in the Crowd in the never-ending war between Hollywood and upstart television.
But still, there is that breathtaking, unnerving prescience, which makes one sorry that three of Network’s principal architects – Chayefsky, Finch and Holden – were dead long before it became apparent. And there is this, from Finch-Beale, a line that reaches straight across 40 years of time and grabs us by the throat: “This tube is the most awesome goddamn force in the whole godless world, and woe is us if it ever falls into the hands of the wrong people!” Perhaps it’s too late.
Sean Penn has a pretty good record as a director, with films such as The Indian Runner and Into the Wild under his belt. However, he seems to have seriously blotted his copybook with his fifth feature, the war romance The Last Face, which attracted derisive reviews when it premiered at Cannes in May. Now the first trailer is out, the wider public can begin to make their own judgments on it.
Starring Javier Bardem and Charlize Theron as conflict-zone medics in Africa, The Last Face in trailer form already looks like a wildly overheated melodrama, with a clear case of white saviourism. It might be hard, from this alone, to discern the full ramifications of what our reviewer Benjamin Lee described as Penn’s “unbelievably crass decisions at every conceivable turn”, but the opening voiceover – “When I thought of him I was there in a way I wasn’t when I wasn’t thinking of him” – gets things off to a promisingly klutzy, poorly articulated start. Penn has conjured up some striking images, certainly, but there’s little to suggest that The Last Face can hold a candle to, say, Beasts of No Nation, as an exploration of the price of civil war in sub-Saharan Africa.
Sydney’s lockout laws, Australian marriage equality and a surprise appearance from Kylie Minogue were the big talking points at the 30th annual Aria awards, otherwise dominated by the electronic music wunderkind Flume.
The 25-year-old Sydney electronic producer whose real name is Harley Streten, picked up five of the pointy statues, winning best male artist, album of the year and best independent release for his sophomore album Skin, as well as best dance release and best pop release for Never Be Like You.
Flume had already won all three artisan categories – best producer, engineer and cover art of the year – when nominations were announced in early October, bringing his total Aria awards to eight.
In his acceptance speech for best dance release, Flume rallied against Sydney’s controversial lockout laws, which he said had curtailed opportunities for young musicians that he himself had benefitted from.
Wearing a pin in support of the Keep Sydney Open campaign, he thanked the venues at which he’d performed, “especially the small ones ... because that’s where music evolves, that’s where all the exciting stuff happens, and that’s what’s getting shut down right now”.
“To our policy-makers and our politicians, please keep Sydney open so that the young artists, so that the next generations of musicians, can have the same opportunities that I had,” he told Guardian Australia on the red carpet.
Now in its 30th year, the Australian Recording Industry Association awards were held at Sydney’s Star event centre from Wednesday afternoon and later broadcast on Channel Ten.
Sarah Blasko, who won the best adult alternative album award for Eternal Return, and Montaigne, named breakthrough artist, were also critical of the lockout laws.
“As a musician I’ve enjoyed many late nights of playing shows, and dancing like a moron at late hours,” Blasko told media backstage. “It’s been an important part of my development as a human being.
“Culturally it’s very important for people to be able to experience the city at all hours, and for people to be able to address the drinking problems as separate – not one and the same as a late night.”
The Perth YouTube star turned singer Troye Sivan, 21, claimed his wins for his song Youth – which took out best video and song of the year – as victories for the LGBTQI community.
He later told media that the only obstruction to marriage equality in Australia seemed to be politicians, and that it was “only a matter of time” before the law was passed.
“Socially it feels like Australia is an amazing, progressive, open, inclusive country and I’m so proud to be from here – and it just kind of sucks that it doesn’t feel like that’s represented politically.
“What I can do is just keep pushing the envelope as far as the opinion of the public goes. And that’s what I’m going to try and keep doing.”
Sivan’s resolution was reinforced later when Sia’s award for best female artist was accepted on behalf of Angie Broome, a marriage equality campaigner, who said it was for “every single non-hetero and gender-diverse person who can currently not marry the person that they love in this country”.
Kylie Minogue and her British fiance, Joshua Sasse, who both made a surprise appearance to present an award, also rallied on behalf of Sasse’s campaign to Say “I Do” Down Under, with Sasse adding that 2017 could be the year Australia is “back on the right side of history”.
Kylie Minogue in the green room repping for marriage equality. Pics only, but such a pro. #arias pic.twitter.com/rUM3CLVnsi
The actor, presenter and DJ Ruby Rose, who is in a relationship with the Veronicas’ Jess Origliasso, who co-hosted the Aria awards with her twin sister Lisa, tweeted the night was “a huge win for the LGBT community”.
The #Arias were a huge win for the LGBT community tonight. Thanks to so many inspiring acts and presenters. Beautiful. Get it 🇦🇺
Marriage equality and Sydney’s lockout laws mobilised the crowd more than many of the performances did, with Crowded House raising one of the biggest responses of the night with their induction into the Aria Hall of Fame.
Flight of the Conchords, Bret McKenzie and Jemaine Clement, eventually presented the award after some territorial posturing over frontman Neil Finn’s hailing from New Zealand.
“We can’t let this happen. You have enough bands in Australia,” said Clement.
“We really need Crowded House, our musical Hall of Fame is more of a Doorway of Fame. So stop it Australia,” said McKenzie.
After an acceptance speech from Finn, in which he remembered Paul Hester, the band’s drummer who died in Melbourne in 2005, Missy Higgins and Bernard Fanning performed Crowded House classics Fall at Your Feet and Better Be Home Soon.
Crowded House – still in black tie, which, for Finn, constituted a very purple suit – then performed Distant Sun from the band’s 1993 album Together Alone.
On Thursday the band will begin a string of performances at the Sydney Opera House forecourt 20 years after their Farewell to the World concert that was attended for free by more than 100,000 fans. In contrast, the four ticketed concerts Crowded House will play from Thursday to Sunday will be capped at just 6,000 punters a night, Finn said.
“[1996] was a time when there was a complete absence of health and safety,” Finn told media. “It’s a wonder that no one died. People look after each other in those situations – and it’s nice when a population can be trusted.”
He said the band was “determined to make those shows sing and fly and be as good as – if not better than – what we were like 20 years ago”.
Finn had condemned Australia’s “detention and mistreatment of asylum seekers [as] completely unacceptable” before he performed with Paul Kelly at the Aria awards in 2014.
“It’s still the same,” he said on Wednesday. “It seems like a very strange place to be commenting on it but it’s a deeply concerning thing. It really is.”
John Butler and Ben Lee, who appeared on stage together to present the Aria for best male artist, acknowledged the traditional custodians of the land, with Lee adding: “We also want to use this opportunity to say we stand with Standing Rock.”
Best calls of the night - Acknowledgement of country from @JohnButlerTrio & showing solidarity with #StandingRock from @benleemusic #ARIAs
The only other act to win more than one Aria award on Wednesday was the Brisbane alternative rock band Violent Soho, who were named best group and best rock album for WACO.
John Farnham closed the event with his 30-year-old ballad, You’re The Voice – described as “Australia’s unofficial anthem” by hosts the Veronicas, who bowed down before the singer whose 1986 album Whispering Jack is still the biggest-selling Australian album of all time.
Telstra album of the year: Flume – Skin
Best male artist: Flume – Skin
Best female artist: Sia – This is Acting
Best dance release: Flume – Skin
Best group: Violent Soho – WACO
Breakthrough artist: Montaigne – Glorious Heights
Best pop release: Flume – Never Be Like You (feat. Kai)
Best urban album: Drapht – Seven Mirrors
Best independent release: Flume – Skin
Best rock album: Violent Soho – WACO
Best adult contemporary album: Bernard Fanning – Civil Dusk
Best adult alternative album: Sarah Blasko – Eternal Return
Best country album: Sara Storer – Silos
Best hard rock/heavy metal album: King Gizzard & The Lizard Wizard – Nonagon Infinity
Best blues and roots album: Russell Morris – Red Dirt Red Heart
Best children’s album: The Wiggles – Wiggle Town!
Best video: Troye Sivan – YOUTH Acoustic (Sydney Session)
Best Australian live act: Hilltop Hoods – The Restrung Tour
Apple Music song of the year: Troye Sivan – Youth
Best international artist: One Direction – Made in the A.M. & Four
What a difference four years make. When Phyllida Lloyd’s all-female version of Julius Caesar, set in a women’s prison, premiered at the Donmar in 2012, cross-gender casting was still perceived by some as a novelty, and theatre’s feminists were only stirring. By the time the second production in the trilogy, Henry IV, opened in 2014, research carried out for Tonic Theatre’s Advance programme had highlighted the shocking gender inequality on Britain’s stages and Maxine Peake was playing Hamlet in Manchester.
Now, as a pared-down version of The Tempest completes the trilogy – in which each filleted production is remarkable, but when seen consecutively are utterly extraordinary – there is a growing critical mass of gender-blind casting. Glenda Jackson is playing King Lear at the Old Vic and Anna Francolini is Captain Hook at the National Theatre, where Tamsin Greig will soon play Malvolio.
It’s not solely about gender. Lloyd’s production – with its clever framing device in which the women in the prison are putting on the plays and in the process discovering themselves – is a glorious reminder that genuine diversity on stage offers astonishing creative benefits. Everyone on stage looks different, sounds different and uses their body differently. Yes, it’s a hotchpotch, but a thrilling one. There’s not a character here who isn’t sharply defined, from Jackie Clune’s gangland-style Julius Caesar to newcomer Leah Harvey, who is a tiny, eerie tricycle-riding Soothsayer in Julius Caesar, a vivid, athletic Earl of Douglas in Henry IV and an appealingly direct Miranda in The Tempest.
Even the way the cast approach the text is fascinating. Harriet Walter is mesmerising in one play after another, bringing her classical training to bear as a conflicted Brutus, then a Henry IV who wears his crown heavily, and finally a Prospero who knows that the steel bars of prison are resistant to all magic. Sheila Atim – a glorious, giddy Ferdinand and a moving Lady Percy – frequently seems to be physically stabbing the text as much as speaking it, and Jade Anouka – as captivating as a kick-boxing Hotspur as she is as Ariel – makes each word sound like fresh-minted street poetry.
When Caliban observes that “the isle is full of noises”, it has never seemed truer. This is an evening full of music and song. Lady Percy, who has just zipped her fumbling war-hero husband into his armour, sings him off to his death with Glasvegas’s Daddy’s Gone. Joan Armatrading supplies a bubbling score for The Tempest. But the trilogy is at its very best when the plays sing off each other, and the play-within-the-play device speaks to a wider world.
It’s impossible in the light of recent events not to see a touch of Donald Trump as the Rome crowd cheer a baby-kissing Caesar. The Tempest lightly highlights both ecological disaster and the way dreams have been commodified. Henry IV is a meditation not just on the responsibilities of power but also the destructive potential of swaggering male machismo.
The all-female casts and prison setting make you see the three plays afresh. The double focus of seeing them through the lives of the prisoners playing the characters is invigorating. Hal’s journey in Henry IV is seen in the light of the fact that the woman playing her is getting out shortly. It makes the rejection of Falstaff doubly charged. Clare Dunne as Hal and Sophie Stanton as Falstaff play the moment heartbreakingly.
By the end, as Walter sits alone in her cell, you can’t help weeping for the lives lost to the injustices of our prison system and the way we all make prisons for ourselves. This is genuinely art to enchant.
Fierce controversy is rocking Canada’s literary community over the sacking of a creative writing tutor at the University of British Columbia. More than 80 authors, including Margaret Atwood and Yann Martel, have signed an open letter calling for an independent investigation into the dismissal. But that protest has prompted further contention, with the signatories now accused of pressuring abuse victims into silence.
Steven Galloway, author of the novel The Cellist of Sarajevo, was the chairman of UBC’s creative writing program until November 2015, when he was suspended by the university for what it called “serious allegations”. He was then sacked in June, when UBC said there had been “a record of misconduct that resulted in an irreparable breach of … trust”.
The university has never revealed what the allegations against Galloway were, saying it can’t disclose any details without his consent because of privacy legislation. Galloway has been directed to not speak publicly while his union contests his dismissal, a process that won’t be completed until March.
My belief in due process and my belief in survivors are both parts of me, and I cannot sacrifice one for the other.
However, while the report on which the decision to sack Galloway was based has not been made public, the UBC faculty association issued a statement “to clarify that all but one of the allegations, including the most serious allegation … were not substantiated”.
Although UBC remains silent on the nature of the allegations, several have been leaked to the Canadian media. The primary complainant is a UBC student who claims to have had a sexual relationship with Galloway in the past and made numerous other allegations. Others allege that they witnessed behaviour including sexual harassment, bullying and favouritism.
An open letter, written and circulated by novelist Joseph Boyden, criticised UBC for publicly naming Galloway when he was first suspended. It also voiced concerns that the university’s investigation process had been secretive and unfair. It was signed by more than 80 authors, including Atwood, Martel, Michael Ondaatje and Madeleine Thien.
“Professor Galloway himself has been denied the right to speak publicly … The University’s willingness to allow the suspicions it has created to continue to circulate is surprising and appears to be contrary to the principles of fairness and justice that should guide any distinguished academic institution,” the letter reads.
Last October, Thien, a UBC graduate, sent the university a letter stipulating that her name be removed from all UBC web pages, alumni publications and social media. In her letter, Thien voiced her support for Galloway and revealed that he had attempted suicide. She also identified herself as a sexual assault survivor. “I believe you have failed everyone involved. I know that, if we want a world where women are believed, we must support them to give their evidence without fear or reprisals, in a context in which their identity can be protected and guaranteed by the law, in a system that is transparent and just,” she wrote.
“I know the terrible and lasting pain of sexual assault,” Thien told the Guardian. “My belief in due process and my belief in survivors are both parts of me, and I cannot sacrifice one for the other. It would be like ripping myself in two.”
Other authors who signed the letter also took further action in support of Galloway. The writer Ian Weir, who teaches at UBC on a term-by-term basis, told the Vancouver Sun he would not apply for another contract with the university, while Hollywood screenwriter Hart Hanson said he was rethinking a donation he had planned for UBC’s creative writing department.
The letter sparked a backlash online, particularly towards Atwood on Twitter, a platform on which she is very vocal. She later sent a statement to various Canadian media groups, comparing the process by which Galloway was investigated to the Salem witch trials: “Those accused would almost certainly be found guilty because of the way the rules of evidence were set up, and if you objected to the proceedings you would be accused yourself.”
“To take the position that the members of a group called ‘women’ are always right and never lie – demonstrably not true – and that members of a group called ‘accused men’ are always guilty – Steven Truscott, anyone? – would do a great disservice to accusing women and abuse survivors, since it discredits any accusations immediately,” she wrote. “Those accusing Joseph Boyden, Madeleine Thien and all the other signatories of the letter in question, of rape culture and intimidation of young people because they have objected to a university’s flawed and high-handed process should give some thought to the consequences.”
The open letter spawned a second in response. “We are shocked and appalled by the letter signed by many prominent Canadian writers defending Steven Galloway,” wrote Professor Julie Rak of the University of Alberta, in a letter posted to Change.org and signed by 390 people by Wednesday morning. “We are angered by this letter of ‘support’, because no support was expressed for the female complainant or for the other female students who felt it was safe to make complaints after Steven Galloway was suspended.”
Complainants have told the Canadian media they’re worried the fame of the authors will intimidate people and deter them from reporting incidents.
“I wept when I read those names because I truly believe those writers have no idea the silencing effect this letter has on victims, both of the past and of the future,” said Sierra Skye Gemma, a former UBC student who filed a complaint against Galloway over behaviour she says she witnessed.
“The letter reads like a high-minded manifesto calling for due process,” Chelsea Rooney, a UBC graduate and one of the complainants, told the Globe and Mail. “To the complainants, however, who have been going through this investigation for a year, it reads like Canada’s most powerful authors saying ‘Be quiet, we don’t believe you. And we don’t care.’”
Novelist Kathryn Kuitenbrouwer signed the letter but later asked for her name to be withdrawn. “I signed it in spirit of an open and honest inquiry and regret not being more sensitive to how its wording could cause harm,” she wrote on Facebook.
In its statement, UBC said: “It is important to note that a review of the university’s decision is already under way. Like any former faculty member, Mr Galloway has the right to challenge the university’s decision and the faculty association has filed a grievance and arranged for senior legal counsel.”
Rejection and self-discovery were the twin fuel kegs behind Tori Amos’s breakthrough in 1992. She’d gone from teen prodigy to synth-rock “bimbo” with her maligned band debut Y Kant Tori Read in 1988 – an ego-crushing fall that forced her into creative retreat. Despair turned into determination, and four years on from the Y Kant Tori Read album, a bold solo artist re-emerged. Little Earthquakes, her solo debut, was a seismic statement, the sound of an artist letting her own unapologetically original style flourish, via wild pianos and bold personal truths. When Atlantic rejected the initial version of the album, Amos fired back with a clutch of new songs. Tear in Your Hand was among the deal-sealing salvo, a blazing, electric guitar-laced volte-face with a Springsteen warmth that flips from breakup song to personal power anthem. Her lover has left her and her world has imploded; she’s in emo mode, wallowing in “the black of the blackest oceans”. But as the detritus settles and she scrutinises the situation, an exultant, Bösendorfer-smashing epiphany: if she was too much, he was not enough. And his new squeeze? “Maybe she’s just pieces of me you’ve never seen.”
The Little Mermaid may have inspired this Little Earthquakes favourite, but it wasn’t Disney’s effervescent bride Amos was thinking of – it was Hans Christian Andersen’s tragic original, rendered mute and powerless by a love that would eventually send her to the grave. The message of self-reclamation, and the graceful, soaring melody it was couched in, made a powerful anthem for survivors of abuse. In 1997 it was rereleased as single to raise funds for the Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network. As Amos tells it, the song’s impact continued long after its release. “Years later, when I played Israel, I was in an airport bathroom when a Middle Eastern woman came up to me. She said, ‘Don’t think we’re not listening. We pass your music behind closed doors to each other and it’s something secret that we know, so don’t stop.’” Impossible now to imagine it sung by its intended recipient, the Glaswegian folk-popper Al Stewart.
Winter is about as far away from motivational workout jams as you can get – a measured, almost solemn song that opens with a delicate, snowflake-soft intro and takes a good three minutes to go full-avalanche. But Little Earthquakes’ fourth single – a song that’s inspired covers by REM, Dream Theater and Amanda Palmer – was exactly what WWE star Mick Fowley needed to hear when a profound crisis of pre-match confidence struck. “Most listeners would interpret Winter as a song about a father’s love for a child. But the question in the refrain [“When you gonna make up your mind? When you gonna love you as much as I do?”] always appealed to the scared part of me, the part that believed I wasn’t strong enough, or big enough, or good enough. It never made me think of doing wild and dangerous deeds inside a wrestling ring. It helped me believe that I was strong enough to do the things I already knew needed to be done.”
If Little Earthquakes proved Amos could do force and noise to match grunge’s poster boys, her chart-topping 1994 follow-up, Under the Pink, was a masterclass in space: not just how to inhabit it with wild, imaginative piano gospels, but how to colour its absence – those quiet moments between chords and notes – with profound meaning. Icicle’s radical, taboo-melting hymn to female pleasure is intense with these spaces. Witness the ominous echo that follows the stern, opening notes; the clanging, off-kilter melody that follows it, attempting unsuccessfully to knit itself into something courtly and sentimental before unspooling violently into peals of dissonant, fret-hammering frustration. Listen closely to the heavy pause that cuts this volley dead and you’ll hear a long, exhaled breath – a table-clearing swoop that opens the way for the song’s true, twinkling melody to rise. The minister’s daughter has levelled her gaze at the “good book” and spotted its missing pages. She’s found a “hiding place” from God’s judgmental gaze, chosen pleasure over shame, self-love over dogma and prayer circles. She’s locating ecstasy – spiritual and otherwise – on her own, intimate terms: “And when my hand touches myself, I can finally rest my head / And when they say take of his body, I think I’ll take from mine instead.”
Inescapable after its release in 1994, this Merry Clayton-assisted megahit became Amos’s calling card, the single even her non-fans hum along to. As the writer Annie Zaleski points out, it was the centrepiece of an album that explored the “more universal experiences of women: how they related to religion, negotiated power dynamics, explored their sexuality, and navigated relationships with men and with other women”. This last theme is the crux of Cornflake Girl, a breakfast cereal metaphor concerning frenemies and betrayal inspired in part by Alice Walker’s novel Possessing the Secret of Joy. Attend an Amos show now – almost always seated gigs in grand halls – and you’ll see a faction of hardcore fans rush the aisles when this set-list staple is unleashed.
After the gargantuan classical tempests of Little Earthquakes and the haunting toy piano excursions on Under the Pink, Amos turned her attention to the harpsichord, bringing a baroque darkness to Boys for Pele in 1996. If the subdued woman in Silent All These Years was inching her way to freedom, the survivor in this album’s standout has sped her way there, incandescent with trauma after a crime scene of a relationship: “Now you’ve cut out the flute, from the throat of the loon. At least when you cry now, he can’t even hear you.” It’s a humid and haunting song, a fever dream of a waltz delirious with carnographic images and seething, keening vocals – Amos at her darkest.
Armand Van Helden’s monster remix of Boys for Pele’s third single transformed this song into a supple dance anthem and gave Amos her sole No 1 single in the UK. The original – long rumoured to be a diss track about Courtney Love – is equally formidable: dense, noisy and obscenely sensual, with a quintessentially Tori signoff: “Give me peace, love and a hard cock.” An entire album of Boys for Pele dance remixes were mooted at one point, but sadly failed to materialise.
On the Choir Girl Hotel, released in 1998 and written in the wake of a miscarriage, Amos pushed her sonic boundaries, utilising a fuller band sound and bringing the alt-rock skeins that threaded her first three albums to the fore: treated percussion, eroded synths, industrial basslines, crunching shards of electric guitar and coiling feedback. The resulting album is dark, brooding and vampish: lascivious club bangers (Raspberry Swirl) colliding with strutting glam rock (She’s Your Cocaine) and trip-hop saturnine (Iieee). There’s a rich seam of the latter on Cruel, with its snaking synths and water-clogged scratching.
If Cruel sounds like midnight games and spiked stilettos, Crazy is its guileless, barefoot opposite: a languid, sun-washed dawn of a song, where desert-baked tremolo guitars echo across radiant organs and wistful ahh-ahh-ahhs. The expansive country vibe and local colour on Crazy – canyons, native shelters and drive-all-night romance – was typical of her 2002 album Scarlet’s Walk, a road trip-style concept record centred around Amos, America (post 9/11) and plenty in between.
Amos roughly averages a record every two years, and, luckily for her fans, shows no signs of retirement. The year after her stage musical debut with The Light Princess in 2013, she released her 14th album, Unrepentant Geraldines, a flawed but rewarding collection of songs recorded at her home in Cornwall, with her husband and longtime engineer Mark Hawley and Marcel van Limbeek. Cleaving to the unapologetic spirit of the album’s title, lead single Trouble’s Lament is no lament at all, but rather a winking hat-tip to “wicked” women: the grifters, gamblers, troublemakers and risk-takers working society’s rigged odds to their advantage. Long may they thrive.
“Ones to watch” season is upon us, and over the next three to four weeks every music publication, style brand, search engine, internet service provider and supermarket chain will turn tastemaker and demand you pay attention to who they believe will be the most exciting musicians of 2017. Google Play Music began proceedings last week by being the first to upchuck its predictions on to the sticky internet floor, releasing a list of 10 acts “expected to be huge hits next year”.
The list forewent a panel of music experts, in favour of using streaming stats, YouTube subscribers, track performance within playlists and the instincts of some Google Play Music specialists. In fact, it’s less like tastemaking and more like an automated sales forecast curated by sexless algorithms. It features Sampha (who appeared on the BBC Sound Of… list three years ago), Georgia (who was a Guardian “one to watch” in 2015), and Bebe Rexha (who has already written with Eminem, Rihanna and David Guetta, and presented this year’s MTV Europe Music Awards), with pole-position going to major label-backed soul singer Rag’n’Bone Man. It is, in essence, as fresh as a petrol-station pasty.
But maybe the question shouldn’t be about the quality of these lists, and more about whether there is any point predicting what will be the huge hits of next year at all. This year felt like the dawning of a new era. Humanity has spent the last 12 months demonstrating through our fallible predictions that we have absolutely no idea what the hell is ever going to happen any more. Gone are the days of Mystic Meg forecasting the bonus ball and Paul the octopus telekinetically suckering Spain to World Cup success. We now live in a world of surprise Brexits and unexpected Trumps, marooned in an existential malaise of bad calls, incorrect polls, fake news stories, baffled journalists, social media echo chambers and confused public opinion.
This is an upside-down era; one in which Ed Balls is the greatest dancer in Britain, an offensive stereotype called Honey G gets the highest number of votes on a talent show by being as awful as possible, and James Bay and Rick Astley are two of the best-selling British males of the year. In this murky and deathly abyss, where nothing makes sense, it feels perverse for anyone or anything (I’m looking at you, sexless algorithms) to say they know exactly what is going to happen. Rag’n’Bone Man’s streaming figures may be rather impressive but, as far as we know, the hottest new act of 2017 could be a racist cat who plays East 17 covers on a bagpipe.