
Get More: Comedy Central,Funny Videos,Funny TV Shows

Just the phrase "rape joke" is enough to set one's teeth on edge. Rape jokes are associated with terrible bro comics who aim to be edgy but instead land in the reprehensible muck of knee-jerk shock comedy. Rape jokes are associated with endless debates on their validity, who can make them and when, why they exist, whether they should exist, et cetera and so on, and on, and on.
But comedian John Mulaney — a longtime Saturday Night Live writer, the creator of the short-lived Fox sitcom Mulaney, and star of Netflix's brand new standup special The Comeback Kid — has found not just an effective way to joke about rape, but a hilarious way to joke about it. The key to his success? To never, not once, mock rape victims. Instead, the joke is firmly on him and on the culture that tolerates the constant threat of rape.
The joke opens with Mulaney, a scrawny, baby-faced kid in this clip, expressing his shock and awe that any woman could perceive him as a threat. "Because in their eyes," he muses, "I'm an adult." And then he recounts one fateful night on the subway in New York, when he and a lone woman were walking to a train at 2 o'clock in the morning. Even though the woman kept nervously looking over her shoulder at him, when she started to "pick up the pace," Mulaney just assumed she'd heard the train coming — and started to sprint after her, causing her to panic.
I'm almost there — I'm almost at her — and then it dawns on me. "Oh. She's running from me. In her eyes, I'm an adult. And adults rape each other. Kind of a lot!
The key to the bit is that Mulaney never blames the woman for thinking he's a threat. He certainly doesn't believe he's a threat — "I'm not a man" — but the second he recognizes why she's running, he gets it. The joke isn't on her for being cautious, it's on the messed-up facets of society that led her to get so scared in the first place. How was she supposed to know Mulaney wasn't a creep? For her, assuming otherwise wasn't worth the risk — and that, more than anything, is what drives the bit.
Cracking wise about contentious subjects has been its own source of outrage for years. Some comedians complain about not being able to try out their touchier material without getting blasted on social media, or the drag of working within a "politically correct culture" that supposedly stamps out comedic creativity. Others advocate for "punching up" versus "punching down," or taking care not to disparage groups of people who are traditionally less privileged than themselves.
The problem with rape jokes specifically is that some of them — too many, in fact — seek to shock people in a way that will catapult them into some vague "edgier" realm. The ones that actually succeed, however, don't rely on the alarming fact of rape in order to work (because if that's all they're doing, they surely won't work at all). As Lindy West said in her searing Jezebel piece "How to Make a Rape Joke":
You can be edgy and creepy and offensive and trivial and, yes, you can talk about rape. Doing comedy in front of a silent room is scary, and shocking people is a really easy way to get a reaction. But if you want people to not hate you ... you should probably try and do it in a responsible, thoughtful way. Easy shortcut: DO NOT MAKE RAPE VICTIMS THE BUTT OF THE JOKE.
Crafting this kind of joke certainly requires more finesse than just disparaging something for "raping your childhood." But if you take the time and effort to be more innovative, and turn the punchline on the culture that actually deserves the mockery, you can get to the hilarious, true place Mulaney did.
John Mulaney's new standup special The Comeback Kid is now available on Netflix.
It's time for the Globes.
The 73rd annual Golden Globes are tonight. The awards recognize both television and film, and are seen as an early litmus test for Oscar contenders. And comedian and actor Ricky Gervais will host the ceremony for the fourth time in its history.

Carol leads the film nominees. It received five nominations for picture, director, score, and both of its lead actresses. The Big Short is also a strong contender, with nominations for picture, screenplay, and two of its actors.
In the television categories,Transparent, Mr. Robot, Fargo, Outlander, Wolf Hall, and American Crime scored three nominations each.
Here's the full list of nominees.
The Weinstein Company
Carol. (The Weinstein Company)
Paramount
The Big Short. (Paramount)
20th Century Fox
Matt Damon in The Martian. (20th Century Fox)


Inside Out. (Pixar/Disney)
USA
Mr. Robot. (USA)

Mozart in the Jungle. (Amazon)

Fargo. (FX)
The CW
Rachel Bloom in Crazy Ex-Girlfriend. (The CW)
The Golden Globes are tonight, which can mean only one thing: it's time for us to host a live-blog both celebrating and gently mocking awards season's drunk uncle. The Globes will honor the "best" of film and TV, and we'll likely be at least slightly confused as to why they made the choices they did. (Seriously, The Martian and The Big Short are comedies?) You'll hopefully have a good time.
Our live-blog will begin at 7:30 pm Eastern time, just as the red carpet show is wrapping up. It will run throughout the entire program, and since these are the Globes, it will probably even end on time! (Fingers crossed.) Join culture editor Todd VanDerWerff, deputy culture editor Jen Trolio, culture writers Alex Abad-Santos and Caroline Framke, and copy chief Tanya Pai for an evening full of fun and commentary. Will there be some special guests? We can only hope! (Seriously, we don't know yet. Check back in.)
You can follow along in real time right here, or you can just read it below. If you want to remember who's nominated, go here. And if you want to know who we think will win, you can check that out here. For all other needs, keep checking out Vox throughout the show.

The Golden Globes are upon us, ready to name the "best" films and TV series of the year. Of course, in this case, "best" usually means "most famous" or "most likely to win an Oscar" or "most talked about at Hollywood dinner parties."
And, thanks to their loose, breezy feeling and willingness to occasionally go out on a limb for something completely unusual (particularly in the TV categories), the Globes are one of the most fun awards shows to watch.
But that can make the winners enormously hard to predict. Plus, the Globes' role as one of the most important early Oscar harbingers (along with several industry awards, like the Screen Actors Guild and Directors Guild awards) has often led voters to try too hard to forecast what's to come — setting up a frontrunner that then becomes so overwhelming that a backlash happens and something else wins when the big show arrives, as happened with Boyhood last year.
Below, you'll find my best guess as to who's going to win every award at the Golden Globes. Regardless of whether any of them prevail, the winners will all have to pivot immediately to something much more difficult than winning a Globe — making sure nobody gets tired of them.
It seems safe to assume this is a two-film race between Carol and Spotlight. The other three nominees all have support in other categories, but they lack the same level of support that Carol has (with its five nominations total), as well as the likelihood of being a frontrunner for the Best Picture Oscar, which Spotlight has. The Globes don't always strive to predict the Oscars, but they tend in that direction. Thus, I'm guessing Spotlight will win.
The Oscar Best Picture race already seems to have boiled down to Spotlight versus The Big Short. They're the movies that have snagged all of the right nominations in pre-Oscar awards, and they're the movies Hollywood seems to have settled on. Thus, the smart money is on The Big Short winning this award — setting up a battle between it and Spotlight going forward. Watch out for The Martian, though. It's a beloved film that could sneak through for the win.
The Globes often love to give this award to something other than a potential Best Picture winner, and it seems likely they'll go with one of the old pros, awarding either Miller or Scott. I'm betting on Scott, but I wouldn't be surprised in the slightest by a (hugely justified) win for Miller. Also possible: Haynes, whose film has the most nominations across all categories.
DiCaprio is the going-away favorite to win the Oscar (where he's never taken home a prize) — but he's already won two Golden Globes, and when you're dealing with a voting body as small as the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, such things do matter. I'd bet on DiCaprio, still, but Fassbender is an up-and-coming star who could use the profile boost.
Blanchett gives the best performance, but she has so many awards that her Carol nominations feel like gratitude for her consistency in turning out next-level work. Both Mara and Vikander have struggled with questions of whether their performances are supporting or lead. That leaves Ronan and Larson. Ronan's great, but she doesn't have a moment as big as Larson realizing her son is safe in the harrowing Room. Thus, Larson will probably be the narrow winner.
Assuming the Globes choose The Big Short for Best Picture, giving Damon the award here would be a fairly safe way to acknowledge one of the year's biggest hits (as well as his ongoing star power).
The Globes have given Lawrence plenty of awards in the past, so they probably won't recognize her for Joy. Smith and Tomlin's movies are likely just too small. That leaves big star McCarthy and rising star Schumer. The Globes love a rising star, so Schumer gets the edge.
Somewhat surprisingly — given the fact that both Best Picture frontrunners are major ensemble movies with lots of great male performances — this race has come down to critical favorite Rylance and sentimental favorite Stallone. Sentiment usually wins at awards shows, so I'd bet on Stallone. (But watch out for Elba, whose performance in Beasts of No Nation is so ferocious he may win despite playing such a monstrous character.)
This is a tough category to call. Awarding Vikander could give her an Oscar boost for the best performance she gave in 2015 (she had a bunch of them), while Winslet, Fonda, and Mirren are all awards show favorites. But I find it hard to shake the idea that Leigh — who has somehow never won an Oscar in an illustrious career — won't win here.
Both Spotlight and The Big Short are very much "screenplay" movies — meaning that their writing is often stronger than their filmmaking (though The Big Short's collage-style editing is often terrific). The Globes have loved Tarantino in the past, and Sorkin is a perpetual favorite. But I'd bet on the guys from Spotlight, which will give that film a narrow lead heading into the Oscar nominations.
This category is always impossible to call, but when in doubt, look toward the biggest star. That's probably Sam Smith, so his dreary Spectre tune will get the nod.
Despite having the most nominations, I have yet to predict that Carol will win anything. It's going to win something, so why not this?
Son of Saul is the one film in this race that has broken out in a big way and, thus, seems a safe bet for an organization that often seems to vote only for things it has read about in the front matter of an issue of Entertainment Weekly.
This would seem to be a two-film race between Anomalisa and Inside Out. And all due respect to Anomalisa, but this category often seems to have an unspoken "Aimed at Children" appended to its title. Also, Anomalisa doesn't have Bing Bong. Inside Out (justifiably) wins.
The Globes' TV awards usually favor what's new, almost blindly. That sometimes works to their advantage and sometimes blows up in their face. Technically that describes every show here except Game of Thrones, as they're all first-time nominees, but I'd wager the most realistic options are Mr. Robot and Outlander. I'd give the edge to USA's paranoid hacker drama, which aired more recently and has tons of good buzz.
Part of me wants to predict that Mozart in the Jungle wins, but I think Transparent prevails for the second year in a row. Repeats at the Globes are rare, though, so if anybody else wins, it won't be a surprise.
Maybe Wolf Hall can win, as it's got good reviews and a prestigious pedigree and wouldn't be a repeat winner, but Fargo is by far the most beloved show in this category, so it seems likely to win again.
For the third category in a row, I'm predicting a repeat winner. But this one will actually surprise me if there's an upset. Jeffrey Tambor, hands down.
Taraji P. Henson has a shot, but Empire's lackluster fall season has probably hurt her, at least a little bit. In that case, Balfe seems most likely to eke out a victory. The Globes seem to really like her show, as evidenced by its multiple nominations.
I'm tempted to pick Odenkirk, but his show didn't earn a Best Drama nomination. The same goes for Hamm; plus, he's won here before (though in a year where he didn't get to give a speech, thanks to a writers strike). All told, Malek gave the edgiest performance, and the Globes love a good, edgy performance.
Louis-Dreyfus has somehow never won for Veep (her last Golden Globe was for Seinfeld!), and Rodriguez would be a worthy repeat champion. But Bloom winning would go a long way toward securing longer life for her acclaimed but low-rated series, and I doubt the Globes will be able to resist.
Elba is a Globe favorite, and Rylance winning could make up for him losing to Stallone in the movie supporting actor race. But something makes me think Oyelowo will take home the prize. (Isaac could also win, but more for being in the new Star Wars movie than for his amazing performance in Show Me a Hero — which is too bad!)
Huffman and Latifah were great. Dunst is exactly the kind of star the Globes would love to award. But is there any way the Golden Globes can avoid giving an acting prize to Lady Gaga? I strongly suspect not.
What a weirdo category! (The Globes lump together all supporting performances on TV by gender, which always leads to completely impossible-to-predict prizes.) Let's go with Mendelson, who's a rising star with a buzzy role.
Netflix has been pushing hard for Aduba to win, with ads seemingly everywhere, but King should repeat her Emmy triumph for her very strong work in the ABC anthology.
The 2016 Golden Globe Awards — helmed by returning host Ricky Gervais — will air live on NBC on Sunday, January 10, at 8 pm EST. NBC told Newsweek last week that unlike previous years, a live stream won't be available online, so tuning in to a real live television is just about the only chance you've got.
There's no other awards show quite like the Golden Globes. While the Emmys aim for a swanky "Oscars of television" vibe, the Golden Globes — which celebrate achievements in both film and TV — look more like a fancy afterparty than an actual award ceremony. With everyone seated at dinner tables instead of in formal rows, and with drinks flowing throughout the event, the Globes is inevitably one of the most fun shows to watch.
The actual winners of the Golden Globes can also be some of the most unpredictable awards results, thanks to the ever-shadowy, 90-person voting bloc of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, which tends to make less traditional choices than the Oscars or Emmys. And unlike the Oscars, the Golden Globes notably split movies into comedy and drama categories.
To watch this year's 73rd annual ceremony and to see the nominees squirming under Gervais's smirky gaze, tune in to NBC for the live broadcast.
For all your red carpet needs, preshow coverage starts on NBC and NBC.com one hour before the main event, at 7 pm. EST. If you feel like watching Giuliana Rancic and Ryan Seacrest's fashion-centric sideshow, you can tune in to E! at 6 pm EST or watch it online at Hulu, which will be live-streaming E!'s coverage this year.
When: Sunday, January 10 at 8 pm Eastern/5 pm Pacific (with preshow coverage starting on NBC at 7 pm Eastern)
Where: The Beverly Hilton, Los Angeles
TV: NBC
Host: Ricky Gervais
Online: NBC.com
Star Wars: The Force Awakens is a high-budget linchpin of Hollywood's biggest film franchise. It just became the biggest movie of all time. And two of its main characters, Rey (Daisy Ridley) and Finn (John Boyega), are a woman and a black man, respectively.
This is a huge deal, proving you don't need a white dude, or even a dude at all, to make a billion dollars and inspire generations of fans — but you wouldn't know it by looking at much of The Force Awakens' tie-in merchandise.
As Star Wars mania gained speed in the days leading up to The Force Awakens' December 17 release, people began to notice that some of Hasbro's official Star Wars merchandise didn't include Rey. (The toymaker owns the rights to produce licensed Star Wars merchandise through 2020.) And once the movie came out, the slight became even more egregious, because once you see The Force Awakens, you know that Rey is its most obvious main character.
The other contender is Finn, who also plays a key role in the film. But Rey is much more connected to preexisting Star Wars mythology, and of all the new characters she's the one whose Force Awakens story comes with a promising, and slightly ominous, "TO BE CONTINUED" qualifier that will propel Episode VIII. Even co-writer and director J.J. Abrams agrees, telling Entertainment Weekly at this year's Television Critics Association press tour that, "it seems preposterous and wrong that the main character of the movie is not well represented in what is clearly a huge piece of the Star Wars world in terms of merchandizing."
But even if you argue that Finn and Rey are equally important to The Force Awakens, it doesn't make sense for Hasbro to omit Rey from Force Awakens merchandise, given her prominence in the movie. And it especially doesn't make sense in instances where Finn is included but Rey is not. Doing so reeks suspiciously of sexism.
As befits any pop culture controversy, Rey's lack of representation in Force Awakens merchandise is the subject of an ever-growing hashtag campaign called #WheresRey. It first took hold in November, a month before The Force Awakens opened, when the Star Wars fan site Legion of Leia noticed a box set of action figures on sale at Target that included just about everyone but Rey.
The six-piece set featured Finn, Adam Driver's Kylo Ren, Oscar Isaac's Poe Dameron, Chewbacca, a random Stormtrooper, and a random TIE fighter.
At the time, Rey's importance to the plot of The Force Awakens wasn't fully known. However, assuming the set was meant to be specific to movie's new generation of characters, it seemed strange that Hasbro didn't include her. The same could be said for Gwendoline Christie's super-Stormtrooper character, Captain Phasma, who was also prominent in promotional tours but absent from the box set. Tellingly, this same kind of baffling exclusion also happened with Target's box set for Star Wars Rebels, an animated Lucasfilm show that stars two integral female characters; the box set omitted them in favor of a Stormtrooper and a clone trooper captain.
Why didn't these sets include any of the female characters? If it were simply a question of space, I'm sure the two nameless, faceless baddies would've understood.
The omission of Rey in particular became even more glaring once the movie came out, and in the past week, the #WheresRey campaign has kicked up another notch, as people slowly realized that Hasbro's Force Awakens Monopoly set also failed to include the character. The special edition of the classic board game, which appears to play into the film's Rebellion versus First Order conflict, lets you play as one of four characters: Luke Skywalker, Finn, Kylo Ren, or Darth Vader.
On January 5, Hasbro addressed #WheresRey for the first time, issuing a statement to Entertainment Weekly:
"The Star Wars: Monopoly game was released in September, months before the movie's release. Rey was not included to avoid revealing a key plot line that she takes on Kylo Ren and joins the Rebel Alliance."
Hasbro also responded on Twitter to a popular missive from an 8-year-old girl who protested Rey's exclusion in indignant Magic Marker:
.@JillPantozzi .@Epbot 8 yr old asks Hasbro, How could you leave out Rey in SW Monopoly?! #WheresRey pic.twitter.com/PGMzJWWrhy
@CarrieMGoldman @JillPantozzi @Epbot pic.twitter.com/IxTwBK1tBM
On January 6, Hasbro tweeted that it will officially be adding Rey "later this year":
.@CarrieMGoldman @JillPantozzi @Epbot pic.twitter.com/IQ5TNbOygW
Then, as Entertainment Weekly reported on January 12, a new wave of Rey-centric toys and games is imminent — though Lucasfilm is still leaning on spoilers as the reason why she wasn't included in the first place.
So okay, Rey is now a larger part of Force Awakens tie-in merchandise. That's good news. But Hasbro and Lucasfilm's claim that Rey didn't make the cut for Force Awakens Monopoly because of "spoilers" is a weak excuse.
Sure, Disney and Lucasfilm kept a tight lid on Force Awakens plot details, mostly due to co-writer and director J.J. Abrams's infamous aversion to spoilers. But if any one of the movie's character arcs were in danger of being spoiled by a "good" versus "evil" Monopoly set, surely it was Finn's, not Rey's. Finn appeared in the initial trailers as a stressed-out Stormtrooper, and as those who've seen the film are well aware, he ultimately becomes — spoiler alert — a Stormtrooper turncoat who stumbles into the heart of the Rebellion. Putting him on the "good" side of the Monopoly set with Luke Skywalker instantly ruins that "reveal."
So even if we want to believe that Hasbro was trying to be cognizant of spoilers, we have to ask: If potential spoilers are such a big issue and the game relies on key plot points from the film, why release it so early? And why is it okay to spoil Finn's arc but not Rey's?
Also, let's be real: It's not like the end of The Force Awakens features Rey passing Go and collecting mortgage from Kylo Ren.
Regardless of whom you believe, if the company was sincerely trying to be coy about Rey's prominence in the film, those efforts were quickly undermined by the film itself, as nothing about The Force Awakens' trailers or promotional tour ever threw the size of her role into question. Just take a look at the first official poster, released in October, which depicts Finn holding a lightsaber and a literally central Rey:
No need to ask, "Where's Rey?" here.
In Star Wars speak: The logic is not strong with this one.
Hasbro has courted this kind of controversy before, with tie-in merchandise for the Avengers films as well as Guardians of the Galaxy. Scarlett Johansson's Black Widow and Zoe Saldana's Gamora were also not part of the movies' respective action figure box sets for Target, causing fan outrage. Last year, Hasbro made a toy set to let kids mimic an Avengers: Age of Ultron scene in which Black Widow dropped out of an aircraft while riding a motorcycle, but it replaced her with Captain America.
Outside of Hasbro box sets, Marvel has often come under fire for excluding female characters. In 2014, Gamora was left off boys' T-shirts, as though she's not an integral Guardian of the Galaxy. A thorough and thoroughly depressing Tumblr called "But Not Black Widow" collects instances of merchandise that features Avengers heroes yet excludes its sole heroine.
It's a problem that only got worse with the 2015 release of Age of Ultron, when the outrage not only resurfaced but also expanded to include Elizabeth Olsen's Scarlett Witch, who was similarly absent. Clark Gregg, who played Agent Coulson in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (and now portrays the character on the TV series Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.), tweeted support for a "Where's Natasha?" (i.e., Black Widow) campaign. Even Mark Ruffalo, the Hulk himself, protested the absence of Black Widow on behalf of his daughters:
.@Marvel we need more #BlackWidow merchandise for my daughters and nieces. Pretty please.
The memory of those slights undoubtedly fueled the fire once fans realized the same thing had happened to Rey:
Avengers set - no Black Widow Guardians set - no Gamora Star Wars - no Rey. She's THE MAIN CHARACTER.  #WheresReypic.twitter.com/TvYUeiA49o
The evidence for why Hasbro has frequently opted not to include female characters in tie-in movie merchandise suggests the company is less concerned about protecting the sanctity of spoilers than it is about competing against itself for girls' attention.
As the Mary Sue pointed out last spring, Hasbro also sells Disney princess merchandise. (The company bought the rights to the Disney princesses from Mattel in 2014, for half a billion dollars.) And even though Monopoly and Star Wars are hugely profitable properties — in 2014, Hasbro made $401 and $377 million on them, respectively — the company doesn't care about whether they appeal to girls. The idea is that Hasbro wants to cater to a female audience, but it's concentrating those efforts on princesses rather than diversifying its existing "boy" brands to be more friendly to girls.
What this logic ignores, of course, is the notion that female fans of Star Wars or Marvel heroes, who finally got to see something of themselves in Rey or Black Widow or Gamora, might want to own an action figure that reflects as much.
It ignores the notion that both girls and boys can like superhero toys, as well as Disney princesses.
And it ignores the fact that reinforcing the myth that boys won't play with female action figures is harmful and outdated, not to mention a self-fulfilling prophecy.
Yes, at the end of the day, we're talking about toys. But the toys in question are an important extension of a bigger problem. People are justifiably upset over the exclusion of female characters from Hasbro's action figure sets because — as Rey, Black Widow, and Gamora have proved in just the past few years — they're another example of female franchise characters not getting the same meaningful consideration as their male counterparts. If campaigns fighting for their inclusion can get some answers — and even force action like #WheresRey did with The Force Awakens monopoly — asking where the women are is always a worthwhile question.
Updated to reflect J.J. Abrams's response to the #WheresRey controversy.
Kelly Sue DeConnick and Valentine De Landro's Bitch Planet isn't known for its subtleties.
Rating


That's not to say the comic is devoid of nuance or quiet moments; in fact, there are plenty. But I've always seen Bitch Planet as more of a call to arms, a sledgehammer to the face of the society it reflects. In telling the story of a distant future where the patriarchy has gone unchecked and become omnipotent, and nonconforming women are sent to the hellish, galactic prison in the title, Bitch Planet destroys any notion that society treats women fairly. And it's in those shattered pieces, the unanswered questions about the flaws of our reality, that the comic book's true power lies.

The sixth issue, which came out Wednesday, is Bitch Planet at its goddamn finest.
The buzz surrounding this issue was that it contained a trigger warning for sexual assault. Comic books are usually labeled with a rating that mirrors the ones you see in television or the movies, but Bitch Planet's trigger warning is the first of its kind in recent memory. Written by DeConnick and guest artist Taki Soma, the issue takes us into a flashback that spotlights Meiko Maki — a talented engineer who was murdered in the previous issue — and includes a sexual assault on Meiko.
But while the story does depict that sexual assault, it doesn't define Meiko as a character.
The issue is a love letter to Meiko. We find out how she ended up on Bitch Planet. We meet the people in her life and learn what she holds dear. In regard to the latter, we begin to understand what was taken from her.
DeConnick's writing is sharp. She's always been fiery and fiercely funny, but what she does so well in this issue is flesh out the tender moments of Meiko's story. She delicately traces the character's humanity — her violin lessons, her relationship with her mother, her devotion to her father — to the point where it's altered by the issue's main villain, Douglas Braxton. We see a new side of Meiko, as well as a more vulnerable and softer side of DeConnick's style.
The art in this issue is gorgeous; it's clean and crisp. Meiko's dad looks like he's been transported from an episode of Mad Men. And Soma's understanding of negative space helps deepen the story's many layers. It paces and clarifies what's happening, seamlessly matching the gentle tone of the story while its quiet momentum steadily churns along and drives us toward its eventual unraveling.

Bitch Planet No. 6. (Taki Soma/Image)
By the end of the issue, there's anger and heartbreak. Anger at the circumstances that  led to Maiko's incarceration. Sadness over her death. And the agonizing realization that even though what's happened to Meiko is hyperbolic satire, there are parts of her experience that cut extremely close to the bone of reality. This issue of Bitch Planet might be the comic's best one yet. It's also the most painful.
Bitch Planet No. 6 is available online and in storesStory: Kelly Sue DeConnickArt: Taki Soma (guest artist)Publisher: Image Comics
"When J.J. Abrams fell in love with Stephen King" is the romantic comedy nerds didn't know they wanted, until it was presented on a silver platter at this winter's Television Critics Association press tour.
Abrams took a break from the relentless Star Wars: The Force Awakens publicity machine to promote the upcoming miniseries 11.22.63. Abrams produced the adaptation of Stephen King's novel about a time-traveling high school teacher (James Franco) who tries to stop the John F. Kennedy assassination. The series, which also stars Chris Cooper and Josh Duhamel, debuts February 15 on Hulu.
When asked how he got along with King, Abrams had nothing but praise, pointing out that junior high J.J. was an enormous fan of King's novels. (His favorites, for the record, are the short story collection Night Shift and The Dead Zone.)
But Abrams also got to know King personally when the horror author proved to be a huge fan of Lost, the classic desert island series he co-created. Abrams, Lost co-creator Damon Lindelof, and executive producer Carlton Cuse got to know King more while they were working on Lost, and King invited them to Maine to talk about the show for an Entertainment Weekly column. (King wrote pieces for the magazine for several years.)
That fateful evening, the three accidentally went on such a perfect first date with King that you almost couldn't script it: They went and saw a horror movie with him.
"Every time someone died horribly on screen, [King] would cheer, and I just fell in love with him"
"I'm like, 'Do I want to see a horror movie with Stephen King?!'" Abrams sputtered, faux-indignant. "So we went to this family-style restaurant together, and then we went to see The Descent. ... Every time someone died horribly on screen, he would cheer, and I just fell in love with him."
There aren't many people who could make bonding over bloody, gruesome deaths sound like a heartwarming activity, but somehow it's no surprise that Abrams is one of them.
Not only is Arrested Development returning to Netflix for season five, it's planning to grab the news cycle by the throat and make us laugh at it.
Deadline reports that the comedy's fifth season — its second on the streaming service, which resurrected the cult favorite series in 2013 after it was canceled by Fox in 2006 — will be a serialized murder mystery. Season five will also follow up on a season four plot in which the narcissistic Lindsay (Portia de Rossi) proposed building an impenetrable wall along the Mexican border.
It's no surprise, then, that Deadline has summarized this news with the headline, "Arrested Development Season 5: Making A Murderer Meets Donald Trump."

However, series creator Mitch Hurwitz insists that the murder mystery element was already in play for season five, and that the recent surge of true crime productions like Making a Murderer, Serial, and The Jinx is just a bonus. And, to be fair, Lindsay's aggressive cure-all for US-Mexican border relations was, indeed, proposed before Donald Trump descended an escalator and launched his presidential campaign.
But Hurwitz is no fool, and undoubtedly knows the show will likely benefit from echoing these giant stories in the current pop culture consciousness. He therefore told Deadline that he wants to release Arrested Development season five before the presidential election in November.
The only problem with that plan? He hasn't even started scripting the episodes, thanks to complex, ongoing negotiations with the increasingly busy Arrested Development cast.
So by the time season five actually drops on Netflix, who knows what it will be? Depending on what happens over the next few months, maybe it will turn out to be less "Making a Murderer meets Donald Trump" and more "Empire meets Marco Rubio"; either way, it should be pretty damn interesting.
When the NFL announced that Super Bowl 50 will feature Coldplay as its halftime performer, the immediate follow-up question was whether the band could enlist a famous friend to join them. The answer, as we learned yesterday — and predicted when the Coldplay news first came out — is yes, and it's Beyoncé.
Well, and Bruno Mars, per Entertainment Tonight. But hey, let's talk about Beyoncé.
Coldplay frontman Chris Martin has been friends with Beyoncé and Jay Z for years, through his ex-wife and America's Coolest Mom, Gwyneth Paltrow. Before Martin and Paltrow split, the couples had been known to double date at soccer games and "contemporary eateries." And now we know that Paltrow didn't get all the famous friends in the divorce conscious uncoupling.
In November, Beyoncé and Coldplay released "Hymn for the Weekend," Martin's take on a "club track" that quickly became something else once Beyoncé got involved. As Martin told the Wall Street Journal:
This melody came -- "drinks on me, drinks on me." I presented it to the rest of the band and they said, "We love this song, but there’s no way you can sing 'drinks on me."' So that changed into "drink from me" and the idea of having an angelic person in your life. Then that turned into asking Beyoncé to sing on it.
Behold, the magic of Beyoncé, who can turn "drink from me" from an incredibly creepy sentiment into an "angelic" one.
So for as much as we'd love to believe that Beyoncé's return to the Super Bowl halftime show is just an excuse to repeat her amazing 2013 set, "Hymn for the Weekend" is presumably the reason she's joining Coldplay. But hey, if Super Bowl 50 ends with Beyoncé and Coldplay standing in front of a giant FEMINIST banner, as Beyoncé did at the 2014 VMAs, we'll take what we can get.
We think we know how TV cancellations work.
A network realizes that a show's ratings aren't where they should be, and it pulls the plug. Often that happens right away — after a few episodes. Sometimes a show lasts a full season and then quietly disappears. And in very rare cases, a show runs for multiple seasons but is canceled before its cast and crew are ready for it to end.
Historically, the vast majority of TV shows have been canceled at or before the end of their second seasons. Once a series gets past that hump, it's easier to see the promise of syndication (and the money it can bring) at the end of season four or five, so they tend to run that long.
However, the way cancellations work is slowly but surely changing. Shows that would have been axed after two or three episodes even a couple of years ago are running for full seasons — or longer — before networks pull the plug. Shows are still being canceled, but they're being canceled in myriad new ways, some of which you may not be aware of. Just ask HBO's Girls, which has essentially scheduled a cancellation for 2017 — one that both network and creative personnel have agreed upon.
Here are five of the ways shows are canceled in this day and age.
ABC
It's not happening nearly as often as it used to, but shows are still being canceled when their ratings are simply so disastrous that they can't run any longer.
This past fall, such a fate befell ABC's Wicked City, whose third episode pulled only 1.69 million viewers and a 0.4 rating in the 18- to 49-year-old demographic that advertisers love (higher numbers are better, as you'd expect). The serial killer drama had already been mostly ignored, and the drop-off in episode three — after an already low debut — suggested things would never improve.
And so it became the fall's first outright cancellation, even if it took until November for any of the major broadcast networks to get rid of one of their new shows.
The ratings for Fox's recent adaptation of Steven Spielberg's 2002 movie were similarly disastrous, but because Fox is in such dire shape, Minority Report's low but predictable numbers were actually preferable to rolling the dice on something new that might perform even more poorly. However, the network wasn't going to order any more seasons of the show, so rather than pay for the 13 episodes it had initially asked for, the network cut Minority Report's episode count to 10. That minimized the network's financial risk, while still giving it a "dependable" performer to air on Monday nights.
This has happened to a lot of the new shows that debuted this past fall. Their networks don't have to say they're canceled, and they'll get to finish their shortened runs — and then they'll be quietly shuffled offstage come May, when the new fall schedules are announced.
Occasionally, this can happen to entire seasons, too. HBO renewed its summer comedy The Brink for a second season, before deciding a few months later that it didn't actually want more of the show and canceling it after the fact.
This is a variation on cutting a show's episode order where the episode order simply remains unchanged. The network airs all of a show's episodes in the show's regular time slot, even though ratings are terrible, but then it never picks up any more, and the show dies when everyone's contracts expire.
This is how many cable networks prefer to cancel shows. All of the episodes will air, and then a few weeks after the season is over, the show is discreetly canceled. (A recent exception to this is FX's The Bastard Executioner, which was canceled, very loudly, in an announcement published in a Hollywood trade.) Fans may be left wondering whether there were ever any more episodes, but this is generally seen as a kinder sort of cancellation — after all, the show got a full season (or even two) to prove itself.
This process works a little differently on network TV. Broadcast networks usually order 13 episodes of a new show, and then if it performs well they'll pick up another nine episodes, for a total of 22. But shows might air all 13 episodes of their original order without getting the so-called "back nine" pickup, and that serves as a de facto cancellation, too. (The CW appears to be doing this with Crazy Ex-Girlfriend, a low-rated, critically acclaimed series that only earned five additional episodes, instead of the full the back nine and, thus, seems unlikely to be renewed for a second season.) Networks may even pick up a full 22-episode season, simply to have a predictable underperformer to air in a certain time slot all season long, then never order another season.
This is by far the strangest form of cancellation — and one that is sadly becoming more common (or, at least, fans knowing about it is becoming more common). All TV shows are produced by a studio and then purchased by a network. The network collects most of a show's ad revenue; the studio usually collects the rest of the money the show makes, from opportunities like DVD sales, foreign sales, Netflix streaming deals, and more.
However, it's becoming more common for networks to be part of the corporations that produce the shows in the first place. Marvel Television, for instance, produces Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., which airs on ABC. Disney owns both ABC and Marvel, so all of the money the show generates ultimately goes to the same place.
What's happening now is that with shows where that's not the case because they're produced by outside studios (a still somewhat typical business arrangement), networks are often leaving them out in the cold after several seasons on the air, even if they draw good ratings. And frequently, the cancellation isn't forthrightly announced by anyone, or the network might go down to the wire on renegotiating its contract with the studio.
For two examples, look at CBS's Mike & Molly and Person of Interest, in their sixth and fifth seasons, respectively. Both shows are produced by Warner Bros. Both shows have long been steady performers for their networks. And both are being pushed aside to make space for shows produced by a CBS corporate partner. Indeed, Mike & Molly just started airing its sixth season, and Person of Interest's fifth season remains on the shelf, ordered and produced but with no air date announced.
The main difference now is that the only reason fans know these shows are likely dead is through the series' cast, which has announced via social media (in Mike & Molly's case) or at conventions (in Person of Interest's case) that the studio has told them the network is unlikely to order more episodes. No cancellations have been officially announced. Technically, CBS could activate its contracts with the shows at the absolute last minute and order more episodes of either or both — it just seems unlikely to do so.
Technically speaking, HBO canceled Girls in early 2016, before its fifth season started to air. But the show won't actually end until 2017, when its sixth season will air. What the network is doing is something increasingly popular, especially on cable — announcing an end date that's at least a year away, to create the impression that a show will form a "complete set" of seasons for future viewers who catch up on streaming and DVD.
Girls was never a huge performer for HBO, struggling to top 1 million viewers per episode. It stayed on the air thanks to critical acclaim, award nominations, and some unknown number of viewers who watched it on the network's various streaming platforms. Plus, the cost of most TV shows starts to increase substantially after season five or six, when actors start to renegotiate their contracts for more pay. Thus, it's in HBO's best interests to end Girls with season six.
But it's also in the best interests of the show itself. Instead of simply petering out, Lena Dunham's comedy will have a chance to conclude with a finale that will hopefully be properly foreshadowed and plotted. And a good ending can mean the difference between a show that becomes an all-time favorite and one that slowly fades from memory.
In some ways, the future of TV lies in the idea of being able to sell shows to streaming services and other new media platforms as "entire series" that tell full, satisfying stories. Breaking Bad will probably be on streaming forever (and at top dollar) because it's perhaps the ultimate example of this — and it will always appeal to new generations of viewers.
Essentially, anytime a cable series draws huge critical acclaim but low viewership, you now have solid hopes for it to get to season five or six, and to have a lot of time to come to a planned, satisfying ending. (The best current example of this might be FX's The Americans, which is just about to begin its fourth season.) Chances are the show's studio has found a way to barely cover its immediate production costs in hopes of reaping bigger rewards somewhere down the line.
Correction: The original version of this article stated Crazy Ex-Girlfriend had received no additional episodes. It has received an order for five more, though not a full back nine.
On the first Friday of every month, I'm bringing you a new episode from the first season of the Pickathon Pumphouse Series. Each episode is a live performance filmed in the tiny Pumphouse studio on the grounds of the Pickathon music festival in Happy Valley, Oregon, filmed by Live & Breathing. For more on the festival and the series, see this post.
Today's episode brings a performance from the Quebe Sisters, a Texas-based group of sisters who play "Texas fiddle music," complete with swing rhythms and three-part harmonies. They started in the early 2000s, winning all sorts of fiddling contests and gaining a reputation as the next hot thing in the Americana world. They've put out three albums since then.
If you're into that sweet, sincere, old-fashioned vein of Americana, you'll love this. Here they are playing "Teardrops From My Eyes."

As you know if you've been following this series, the Pickathon music festival happens every year on the first weekend in August.
Tickets for this year's festival go on sale on Monday, January 18, at 8 am Pacific. The year's lineup will be released online the following morning, January 19.
As I've said a million times now, if you're into music festivals this is basically the perfect music festival experience — family-friendly, never crowded, and filled with great performances from bands you didn't know you liked. If you can make it, you really should.
Most TV fans have heard of "peak TV," the phrase coined by FX president John Landgraf to describe the current abundance of scripted series and how hard it is for any one of them, no matter how good it is, to stand out.
And at the end of December, FX announced that according to its research department, the total number of scripted series to air in primetime on broadcast networks, basic cable, pay cable, and streaming services in 2015 was 409 — the most in history. That number will only increase in 2016.
But what's often overlooked about that number is that it accounts for only a tiny fraction of the TV shows in existence. It just covers scripted, primetime shows. It doesn't include daytime programming. It doesn't include late-night programming. It doesn't include made-for-TV movies. It doesn't include kids' shows that air in the afternoon — prime kid viewing time.
Most notably, it doesn't include unscripted shows — all those reality and documentary series that fill the lineups of so many cable networks, thanks to how much cheaper they are to produce, on average, than scripted shows.
Courteney Monroe, the CEO of National Geographic Global Networks, offered a tally of some of those "other" types of shows at the 2016 Television Critics Association winter press tour, and the number she gave was staggering: Roughly 750 reality shows aired on primetime cable in 2015 — 83 percent higher than the number of scripted shows.
And, crucially, that number only accounts for series that aired during primetime and on cable. Broadcast network reality shows like American Idol or Survivor weren't factored in, nor were the many documentary programs on PBS.
The even more incredible point here: Monroe said that around 350 of those programs were totally new in 2015. And, she pointed out, none of those shows were breakout hits in the manner that, say, Here Comes Honey Boo Boo and Duck Dynasty have been in the past.
A lot of television fans and critics tend to focus solely on scripted shows, because that's where their interests lie. Reality shows are so cheap to make that many networks simply flood the zone with them, and you'll never even hear of lots of them.
For example, Nat Geo's sister channel, National Geographic Wild, is launching a show called Animal Storm Squad, about people who rescue animals after natural disasters. If the show hits a certain number of viewers, it will run for years. If it doesn't, it will disappear. Either way, it's unlikely you'll ever read about it in the mainstream television press unless it somehow becomes a Duck Dynasty–level hit, commanding tens of millions of viewers.
Reality TV tends to be low-risk, and it's generally low-reward. The vast majority of reality series vanish without a trace; the ones that become huge hits are frequently demonized as lowest common denominator TV. And to be fair, some of them sink to that level. But many of them are, at the very least, entertaining and well-crafted.
And all of them must still employ production staffs, even if they're just filming animal rescue crews. Many of the people who work on said staffs simply float from show to show, waiting for whatever's next. Those 750 reality series might be nothing more than data points to you, but each one represents a roving community of TV makers, both young and old.
Do you like The Wizard of Oz? Most likely you do. It's a beloved film classic, a longtime television staple, and the movie that spawned the song "Over the Rainbow."
But haven't you ever thought to yourself, "I wish every word in this film were presented in alphabetical order?" The answer to that is probably no, but that's because you're not Matt Bucy, who first came up with the idea in 2001, recut the film accordingly in 2004, and then posted the result to the internet in early 2016.
Of Oz the Wizard (which, yes, even alphabetizes the opening credits and concluding "End The" card) is the fruit of Bucy's labors, and it's astonishingly entertaining for being a movie in alphabetical order. The first thing you hear after the title sequence is every time someone in the movie utters the word "a," which gives you some idea of what you're in for.
What's impressive, however, is just how musical the whole thing is. Of Oz the Wizard has an energy and pace that make it feel like its own thing, and the occasional moments when the original film's famous songs break through in tiny snippets — as with the repetition of the words "lollipop" and "rainbow" — keep things dancing along. It's a weird, avant-garde project, but because it's made out of the bits and pieces of one of the most famous movies ever made, it's entirely approachable.
Click play on the video. Watch it all the way through or just skip around. You'll have a good time, I promise. And when you're done, read my brief interview with Bucy below.
Todd VanDerWerff: I say this from a position of someone who really loves the result, but what on earth possessed you to do this? And why The Wizard of Oz?
Matt Bucy: It arose out of a challenge from a friend, Ray Guillette, who posited to me, one day back in 2001 or thereabouts, that nothing original was possible. I disagreed. He asked for an example. This idea popped out of my head. It took a while to explain the concept, but after riffing on it for a while we both were convinced it would be amazing.
The film choice seemed obvious to me. I didn't think about it much and couldn't say what made it perfect in my mind, but it was the only choice as far as I was concerned. Then I totally forgot about it. I owe the whole thing to Ray for reminding me about it a couple years later when he came over for dinner.
TV: How long did it take you to make it? Did you come up with a transcript and start moving it around?
MB: I'm a coder, and hell if I was going to tackle this manually! So I wrote a simple little app that helped me and another friend take the movie apart, marking out all the words one by one. It was still pretty manual, but I used a nifty little technique to visually display the soundtrack such that words were easy to spot and locate. It went very fast.
That program spit out a big text file with all the words and their locations in the film, which I then imported into a spreadsheet, sorted in alphabetical and then chronological order, and fed into another little program that took the sorted list and produced the edit. So basically, it was edited in Excel. The credits were done straightforwardly in a video editor. The clouds behind the titles were shot from my roof.
All told, I think it took about seven days spread out over a couple of months. Disassembly was mind-bending in itself. It was literally hard to talk after moving word by word, or syllable by syllable, through the film. English stopped sounding like language, and at times I had to stop because I could not figure out what a word was — I just couldn't hear it right.
TV: What did you learn and come to appreciate about The Wizard of Oz from examining it on that level?
MB: Generally, I became much more impressed with the craft in the film. All the stuff that's in the background — amazing! Look into the forests — there are all sorts of things wandering around. I grew to appreciate the work the sound editors put into the film, which you really hear when looping over sections with headphones.
I can't say the meaning of the film changed much for me, but neither did the edit do any damage to my childhood memories. I did worry a bit that the edit would be an unintelligible mess, but when we first played it, I think all of us who were standing there watching were astonished by what happened. The energy this edit released knocked us off our socks, and all that time frying our heads finding word edges became totally worth it.
<!--
(function(d, s, id) {  var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];  if (d.getElementById(id)) return;  js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;  js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.3";  fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));
// -->
No good deed goes unpunished. #Daredevil
On Thursday, Marvel released an official teaser for the second season of its hit Netflix show Daredevil. It's more of a recap of the show's moody, dark first season than it is a look at the new season. There are voiceovers of the show's most riveting and memorable scenes to date, before a promise that things aren't quite finished in Hell's Kitchen.
The most important thing about the teaser is that we now have an official release date. Previous reports said the show would debut on March 25 — the same day as Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice. Daredevil is actually going to air a week earlier than that, on March 18.
Killer Mike is a killer talk show guest.
The Run the Jewels rapper and social justice activist stopped by Tuesday's episode of The Late Show With Stephen Colbert, and after some light banter about his "formal sweatpants," his discussion with Colbert turned to weightier topics like Bernie Sanders's presidential campaign and systemic injustice against poor and minority populations.

"Let me speak for all white people," the host said to open the conversation. "You speak for all black people."
"Today I do," Killer Mike said with a laugh. After encouraging white people to "Google Jane Elliott" and her blue eyes/brown eyes experiment about how children learn to discriminate, Killer Mike delivered a harsh truth:
If white people are just now discovering that it’s bad for black or working class people in America, they’re a lot more blind than I thought, and a lot more choosing to be ignorant than I thought. Things we’re discussing right now, we discussed in 1990, 1980, 1970, and 1960. And [we'll keep discussing them] until we call a spade a spade, and say this problem is coming from conditions that we’re creating, or allowing to happen, as a white group of people who hold a certain amount of power…
One of the most revealing moments of their conversation came when Colbert asked whether there is a "systemic attempt" in the United States to disenfranchise and isolate poor and minority communities. "It’s not an attempt at all," Killer Mike responded, without hesitation. "It’s successful."
The interview is just over six minutes long but is full of keen insight and honest discussion — a combination that's fast becoming a staple of Colbert's Late Show.
For more of Killer Mike's thoughts on how white college kids can help disadvantaged minority kids ("Don’t give them gifts, don’t make yourselves feel good"), Bernie Sanders ("the only politician who has consistently, for 50 years, taken [a] social justice platform into politics"), and barber shops, watch the full interview above.
If there is a higher being, this new Conan sketch will, in the near future, become the premise of a full-fledged television show. In a round of promotion for their movie Ride Along 2, Kevin Hart and Ice Cube joined Conan and one of his employees, Diana, for a drive around Los Angeles. Diana is working on getting her driver's license, so the clip was filmed in one of those student driver vehicles you drove when you were 15.
The four cruise around the city, and each passenger shares tidbits of information to make Diana's transition into the driving world easy and painless.
"I used to have a tray full of pennies in my cupholder," Hart says, starting to explain what he does to people who cut him off.
"No, batteries." Cube says.
"You throw D batteries at people?" O'Brien asks, before all three encourage Diana to chuck a penny at a fellow driver.
The chemistry among the group is great, making every small moment — whether it's buying weed at dispensary or talking to a cop on a bike — hilarious.
But the best part is the conversation between Conan and Diana in the few minutes before Hart and Cube join them. She's quiet. He's awkward. And there's something magical about watching her roll down her window (manually) to look at the older Asian couple next to her and say, "You're my bitch."
A used-car mogul from Utah has created either one blatantly racist dating site or one extremely calculated attempt to rile our collective outrage.
Sam Russell is the 53-year-old mastermind behind Where White People Meet, a dating site whose title explains its purpose. Though anyone can join Russell's site, its exclusionary title and apparent focus has irked many people on the internet. But Russell doesn't believe he's being racist.
"The last thing in the world I am is racist. I dated a black woman once," Russell told the Washington Post. "I just believe it’s hypocrisy to say ‘one group can do this, but another can’t.'"
The "groups" Russell is referring to are the primary audiences for dating websites like Black People Meet or JDate — which allow users to connect with black and Jewish singles (respectively). Russell's views and comments have fueled internet outrage, to the point that what he's doing feels a bit like performance art; he may even be saying stereotypically racist things to incite anger and draw more attention to his site.
The reason people are talking about the dating site is that there doesn't seem to be a need for it. White people still represent the majority of Americans, and in the dating world, there are benefits to being white.
OkCupid, one of the largest dating websites in the US, compiles data on its "matches" between its members. In 2009, OkCupid found that white men get the most responses from potential mates. It also found that white women tend to reply to white men and exclude nonwhite men.  "[W]hite women have an above-average compatibility with almost every group. Yet they only reply well to guys who look like them," OkCupid co-founder Christian Rudder wrote on the site's blog.
The same data was collected again in 2014, and the numbers stayed consistent:
The boxes represent people's preferences versus the average; the bottom right box, for example, shows that white women rate white men as 19 percent more attractive than the average guy. These numbers reveal a strong bias against black women and Asian, black, and Latino men. They reveal that people tend to rate their own race more highly. And they reveal that there's an attractiveness benefit to being a white man.
Rudder doesn't believe it's outright racism that drives this trend. Instead, he explains, he believes it's cultural, and because white culture is so dominant, it skews what we find attractive toward whiteness:
Beauty is a cultural idea as much as a physical one, and the standard is of course set by the dominant culture. I believe that’s what you see in the data here. One interesting thing about OkCupid’s interface is that we allow people to select more than one race, so you can actually look at people who’ve combined "white" with another racial description. Adding "whiteness" always helps your rating! In fact it goes a long way towards undoing any bias against you.
With this kind of upper hand, the concept of Where White People Meet is sort of puzzling. The thought being: Why do white people need a dating site that's specifically for them when they've already cornered so many other dating sites? The Washington Post's Caitlin Dewey asked Russell just that. His reply isn't really steeped in the idea of service, but rather in the idea that because spaces for nonwhite people exist, spaces for white people should also exist.
"It’s our right to have this business," he told Dewey. "If we want equal rights in this country, it has to be equal rights for everybody."
If you poke around the Where White People Meet website, it feels like the shell of something that hasn't found its footing. In a section advertising its active users, only 11 were present when I checked at midday Tuesday:
And the site's "top members" are faceless avatars:
The most active user groups are also in a sorry state. Many of them only have one member:
Where White People Meet doesn't seem to be a place where white people are meeting.
It's also worth noting that the site only allows you to perform heterosexual searches:
When you try to perform a "man seeking a man" search or a "woman seeking a woman" search, the site forces you to seek a heterosexual match. It's unclear whether this will change in the future, but it seems not all white people are free to meet on Where White People Meet.
Despite the site's apparent lack of users and interactions, Russell told the Washington Post that 100,000 people visited the site on Sunday and that 1,033 registered to browse the site for free. He wouldn't say how many of those registrants ultimately paid the $15 per month typically required to become a full-fledged member (there is a special $4-per-month trial offer advertised right now).
With a lack of activity on the site but plenty of mainstream news coverage of its existence (the Chicago Tribune, Time, and the Washington Post are among outlets that have written about it), it seems like Where White People Meet could very well be an attempt by Russell to cash in on outrage. Currently, there are more people talking about the ridiculousness of the site than there are active users.
It's not unlike the racist Star Wars boycott or the Starbucks red cup controversy  that sparked debate toward the end of 2015. Indeed, it gives people an opportunity to prove they're smarter, more well-informed, and not as racist as Where White People Meet is.
But the outrage that's sprung up in response to the website doesn't really further the conversation about the casual racism that OkCupid has found is inherent in dating. That's probably not a topic people really want to discuss on Facebook, in 140 characters on  Twitter, or, as OkCupid's data has shown, in general. It's easier to simply profess your anger over Russell's silly site. And that's something he definitely understands.
"I knew there was some potential for backlash, but I’m not going to dodge it," he told the Washington Post.

White people. (Photo by Matt Cowan/Getty Images for Coachella)
After consulting some white people I trust, I've compiled a short list of places where white people meet:
Warning: There are spoilers ahead for Star Wars: Episode VII – The Force Awakens.
The main criticism against Star Wars: Episode VII – The Force Awakens is that it's far too much like the original Star Wars. But quite honestly, I think this whole line of criticism has been overblown.
I won't deny the similarities between The Force Awakens and the original movie. The protagonist is a Jedi from a desert planet who's just learning of her powers. The bad guys have a huge weapon that blows up planets, and it features one small vulnerability that X-wings exploit to blow it up during a trench fight. Han Solo's death is a lot like Obi-Wan Kenobi's, serving the same role for Rey as it does for Luke Skywalker. And so on. The story structure of The Force Awakens is roughly the same as the original film's.
But I also don't care. For me, Star Wars has always been about the characters and how those characters are treated, not the overall story structure. That's why the original trilogy was so good and the prequel trilogy so bad. It's also why, after two viewings of The Force Awakens, I think the new movie is fantastic, and I'm very excited for what's to come in the next two parts of the trilogy.
The original Star Wars trilogy had fantastic characters. Luke Skywalker, Han Solo, Leia Organa, Chewbacca, Darth Vader, the Emperor, C3PO, R2D2 — whatever you think of the first three films, it's hard to deny the cast was great and the characters iconic. They all had great chemistry, fulfilling different roles that complemented each other and helped drive a fairly typical fantasy story, albeit a genre-bending one, forward.
That's also why the prequels were so bad, from my perspective — their characters ranged from bland to obnoxious. Obi-Wan Kenobi and Padmé Amidala were entirely forgettable. Anakin Skywalker was a whiny twerp. Palpatine's exposition and general overexposure ruined the mystery that made his character interesting in the original trilogy. Everyone was forced to utter terrible dialogue. And the prequels made all these problems worse by spending too little time on the characters and too much time on long conversations about the universe's politics that were good for lore building but ultimately boring.
The Force Awakens is a big return to the original trilogy not just in its plot structure but also with its focus on characters. And the characters are great. Rey (Daisy Ridley), Finn (John Boyega), and Poe Dameron (Oscar Isaac) all stand up on their own — even while sharing scenes with characters as iconic and charismatic as Han, Leia, and Chewbacca.
Sure, Rey's introduction feels a lot like Luke's. But everything else about her feels different. For one, she's a woman, and she's a total badass — she's obviously a good fighter and pilot from the get-go, and she devises a lot of the movie's clever, lifesaving stunts. Unfortunately, this type of badassery is still a rarity when it comes to women in movies and television, so seeing this type of character in an enormously successful movie is wonderful.
There's also a lot to build on with Rey. The mystery of her parentage has already fueled a lot of fan speculation. Beyond that, Rey is conflicted over her role in the world in a way Luke wasn't as much. Luke very quickly fell into the role of saving a princess and serving as a Rebel Alliance fighter, but Rey is clearly struggling to both find her place in the Resistance and find her family. How that issue is solved will be an enormous part of the character's evolution, and it's something to look forward to.
This type of badassery is still a rarity when it comes to women in movies and television, so seeing this type of character in an enormously successful movie is wonderful
Poe, although he gets limited screen time, is also great, simultaneously acting as a smart-ass but the one character who's devoted and loyal to the Resistance from the start. The Force Awakens does a great job showing, rather than telling, why he stands out compared with other fighters in the Resistance. In his first few scenes, Poe mouths off to Kylo Ren — someone whom everyone else is clearly terrified of. And during the fight in Takodana, Poe expertly pilots his X-wing to destroy multiple TIE fighters with ease. When he does this, Finn is impressed by and cheers on Poe without even knowing that it's his friend in the Resistance ship; the audience sees, through Finn, that Poe is a great pilot.
And Finn's excitement is contagious. He's a rare character for Star Wars: He's loud, boisterous, and cheerful. This is in strong contrast to the original trilogy, which featured mostly grim characters in a rather dire situation. But Finn pulls it off, helping the audience get amped up right at the start of the movie. (I had a huge grin on my face when he yelled, "Did you see that?" after blowing up a First Order turret.)
Finn's story also introduces a potential plot point in the universe: Stormtroopers aren't clones. Because of Finn, we can see why this matters: It might make for a better, smarter army than the old clone army, but it also makes the soldiers more likely to strike out on their own. This even sparks some banter between First Order officials about the merits of a clone army, suggesting that the First Order is considering using clones. (Update: As a reader noted, and Wookieepedia corroborates, clones had been at least partly phased out by the old Empire.)
This is the kind of character-based storytelling that makes the Star Wars universe feel alive. This was a huge part of the original trilogy: Almost everything that fans learned about the Jedi, light side and the dark side was based on the conflict between Luke and Darth Vader. While there was some exposition coming from Obi-Wan, Yoda, and the Emperor, it was much rarer than the exposition that filled the prequels. The new movie throws back to this style of storytelling that thrived in the original films.
Even the weak link in the cast, Kylo Ren (Adam Driver), is promising. While it was a little weird to see the movie's main bad guy throw a couple of temper tantrums, it also established that he's in a unique place for the Star Wars universe: He's a genuinely growing villain who has just begun to try to master the dark side, and he's even seduced to some degree by the light side — a total flip from the typical dynamic in which the dark side turns characters away from the light side. It will take a bit to rehabilitate Kylo's image as a big bad villain after seeing him dispatched by a newbie Jedi like Rey, but at least that puts him in a spot to grow — something that couldn't be said nearly as much of the Emperor or Darth Vader. (As First Order Supreme Leader Snoke points out toward the end of The Force Awakens, Kylo hasn't even finished his training.)
The promise of these characters puts the new trilogy in a very good starting position. It's a fairly different spot than a lot of fans were in after the first film of the prequels trilogy, The Phantom Menace: That movie took so much credibility from the filmmakers by being terrible, and hamstrung its bad characters with such insufferable dialogue, that it was hard to see the prequel trilogy ever recovering from such a disaster — and it never really did. The Force Awakens set a much better base for this new trilogy to build on, in a way that's much closer to what made the original trilogy so good.
The reason I'm focusing so much on the characters is that I believe that's what Star Wars was always about.
Think back to the movie's original structure. Although often labeled as science fiction, it's technically a fantasy adventure. It even starts with the most overly used trope of the genre: A knight (Obi-Wan) goes out to save a princess (Leia). From there, the conflict escalates to a much bigger ordeal, but the films keep to a very familiar outline. A scrappy team of heroes take on an evil kingdom, eventually invading (and destroying) its fortress. A brave knight seeks counsel from a wise sage about how to wield a mystical weapon to take down this evil kingdom's ruler. After a few sword fights the evil ruler is killed, and everyone celebrates. The overall trilogy even follows the typical three-act structure: The first part introduces the characters and conflict, the second part contains a huge disaster that sets back the protagonists, and the third part has the protagonists coming out of that disaster and securing their victory.
This is obviously a huge simplification — but it's the same kind of simplification that people are engaging in with The Force Awakens by glossing over the character moments that drive the franchise.
Star Wars even starts with the most overly used trope of the genre: A knight (Obi-Wan) goes out to save a princess (Leia)
The original Star Wars trilogy was filled with moments that meant so much because the audience grew attached to the characters. Luke seeing Obi-Wan die, then tapping into the Force to destroy the Death Star. The rivalry between Luke and Han to be Leia's hero. Darth Vader telling Luke he's his father. Han getting captured — and responding with, "I know," when Leia tells him she loves him. Yoda's death. Luke telling Leia she's his sister. Darth Vader turning on his master after seeing his son's suffering. These moments — and more — are what make the original trilogy so good, and they're driven by great characters.
In comparison, similar moments in the prequel trilogy fell flat. Take Anakin. Of course, everyone knew he would eventually become Darth Vader. But the movie made this so obvious by casting Anakin as a one-dimensional character whose only real emotion was angst, and whose only real development was how much that angst grew.
The movies never really showcased Anakin's redeeming qualities or explained why anyone should really care that he was turning evil — so by the end of the prequel trilogy, it didn't even feel like the good guys were losing anything by having such an annoying twerp turn to the dark side. (This was topped off by Darth Vader's comedic "NOOOOOO!" after finding out Padmé Amidala was dead. When you reduce Darth Vader to a laughingstock, you've messed up somewhere.)
Unlike the prequels, The Force Awakens made me feel immediately invested in its new characters. So even if it continues to follow the same story structure as the original Star Wars trilogy, that's okay. I just want to see these new characters grow, and there's a lot of potential for that to happen.
Update: According to Marvel's official Daredevil teaser, the show will debut on March 18 — that's a week ahead of the initial reports that the show would go head to head with Warner Bros.'s Batman v. Superman. This post has been updated to reflect that.
<!--
(function(d, s, id) {  var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];  if (d.getElementById(id)) return;  js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;  js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.3";  fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));
// -->
No good deed goes unpunished. #Daredevil
For comics fans, Daredevil's release date not quite the Marvel vs. DC matchup they've been waiting for. The two comic book juggernauts' properties have never gone head to head in mainstream entertainment — their respective movie releases will be dancing around each other for the next few years. And fans have been waiting for the two to go head to head.
But Daredevil vs. Batman v. Superman was never going to be a one-or-another type of situation. Even if they premiered on the same day, there would be nothing to stop people from binging Daredevil, then capping it with a showing of Batman v Superman. And in that sense, the true winners aren't Marvel and Netflix or DC and Warner Bros. — they're the fans.
"I don’t know, it looks weird. It’s the picture on the TV; it just looks … too real."
Picture a TV that appears to be displaying a cheap, unnatural-looking image, even though it's just come out of the box. We, or someone we know, have said something similar to the above when faced with just this situation. You may not be able to place a name on what’s happening, but you still instantly recognize the distracting, crisp falseness of the image. You know that’s not how TV’s supposed to look.
But there's an easy explanation for this. It's a result of what’s called "motion smoothing," also often called the "soap opera effect," a process that artificially increases the frame rate of a program by interpolating images between the 24 frames that televisions usually run every second. To many of you, that will sound like gibberish, but don’t worry. That feature is easily turned off — and we're here to explain what all of the above means.
The disconnect between the unfamiliarity most people have with the process that produces this image and the instant familiarity these same folks have with its effects — that weird-looking image — is both paradoxical and entirely typical of matters concerning motion picture format.
And this is a discussion that's only heating up. Quentin Tarantino's The Hateful Eight is filmed in a mostly extinct format, and much of the film's press has been centered on that fact. And Canadian director Xavier Dolan has gone after Netflix UK for displaying his movie in the wrong format.
@NetflixUK @metrodomegroup @eOnefilms @LesFilmsSeville pic.twitter.com/U7MvgUtlcf
We have the innate ability to recognize differences in image, but few of us ever learn what causes those variations. You know this stuff — you just don't know you know it. The general public might not be able to define what 35mm film or the Academy ratio is, but they instantly recognize both from years of movie watching.
So let's start simple.
"If I can't shoot on film I'll stop making movies," Tarantino said on Los Angeles radio station KCRW's show The Treatment. He added, "If we're acquiescing to digital projection, we've already ceded too much ground to the barbarians. The fight is lost if all we have is digital, DCP presentations. To me, that's just television in public."
Just what is Tarantino talking about here? When someone pushes his glasses high up on his nose, raises a finger, and creaks, "Actually, film is…" chances are he’s about to explain the difference between analog and digital filmmaking.
Once upon a time, all movies were shot using machines that would take 24 photographs or "frames" every second and instantaneously leave a negative of those images on a filmstrip. It would then be treated with chemicals and displayed for showings by running the reels containing these strips of pictures through a projector. (Some cameras can also take more than 24 frames per second — see motion smoothing, above — but this generally produces an image that looks too real to our used-to-24-fps eyes.)
If that sounds like a long, laborious process with tons of room for mechanical and human error, that’s because it is. The advent of videotape and the handheld video camera made physical media somewhat easier to work with, but all it takes is one afternoon spent carefully respooling the magnetic tape on a VHS cassette (or one VCR chewing up a bunch of that tape) to realize how easily ruined it all is.
Instead of these potentially error-ridden physical procedures, many cameras now save these images as data to a digital bank, which can then be accessed like any other file. Digital video doesn’t really exist in the same way that MP3s don’t exist. As such, transportation, preservation, and even tinkering with the look of the finished product are now simpler than ever before. Recent technological advances have streamlined this process beyond what the filmmakers of bygone eras could have even imagined.
So digital is the solution, right? Not so fast. Though digital photography may be more practical, film has aesthetic merits that aren’t as easily pinpointed. Those with the spider senses to discern such things have a habit of claiming film "just looks better," much in the same way audiophiles can tell that vinyl "just sounds better," but these both circle back to the inherently vague "know it when I see it" phenomenon.
Filmstrips are a living thing — they degrade and expand and contract and mutate and warp over time based on the conditions they’re left in. As such, they have a lived-in look. A filmstrip saved from 1979 and shown again today has clearly seen some shit. Little imperfections such as scratches or so-called "cigarette burns" (take it away, Ed Norton) appear on the strip, and quiet crackles and pops develop on the audio track.
But, in many ways, these imperfections are an argument in film's favor. Though good ol’ film stock may represent an inferior experience in terms of pure empirical quality, it has the soft-around-the-edges look that we associate with old movies. Film is transportive; it inspires nostalgia, especially among film buffs. Compared with that, digital video can look antiseptic and polished. (This is some of what Tarantino means when he calls digital projection "television in public." Television, too, can look antiseptic and polished.)
These technical distinctions dictate the daily push and pull of the film industry, but for the garden-variety viewer, digital and analog are no more than two visual modes for a film to work in, each with its own individual vibe. Neither is better than the other, only more well-suited to the story the filmmaker has chosen to tell.
Director Danny Boyle, for instance, used various film formats to subtly communicate the passage of time in his recent film Steve Jobs, which takes place at three product launches in three different years. Boyle shot the scenes at Jobs’s first launch in 1984 on 16mm film, captured the scenes around the 1988 launch on 35mm film, and switched to digital to evince a polished modernity for the third product launch in 1998. And if you know to look for it, the switch in formats in each time period is easy to spot.
Manufacturers produce filmstrips in four different sizes — called gauges — each with its own properties and applications.
The measure of a gauge refers to the width of a filmstrip, with wider stock providing sharper definition and more detail in the projected image. Most major releases shot on film — including the current number one film in the world, Star Wars: The Force Awakens — are printed on 35mm stock; a lot of movie theaters use digital projectors but might bust out a 35mm rig for special occasions, often meant to court cinephiles.
The next rung down is 16mm, a cost-effective alternative intended for low-budget student productions or amateur use. There was a time when use of 16mm was in common in the realm of TV. For instance, observe the world of difference between the look of Buffy the Vampire Slayer's first two seasons (shot on 16mm) and those that followed it (shot on 35mm, once the series' budget grew).
The lowest gauge of film stock is 8mm, which was cheap enough to produce that it was mainly reserved for home movies and experimental projects. You might remember the J.J. Abrams film Super 8, into which low-grade home movies figure prominently — its title comes from the name of a specific brand of 8mm film.
Javier Zarracina/Vox
That only leaves 70mm, the largest gauge and a recent subject of minor kerfuffles within the film world. Still an enfant terrible at 52, Tarantino made waves with his announcement that his latest feature The Hateful Eight would play in glorious 70mm at various "roadshow" locations around the country, complete with additional footage exclusive to the 70mm version.
Tarantino fashioned his newest effort as a capital-E Event in the tradition of the spectacle films of yore; the 70mm format and its dazzlingly rich colors, lush sound, and ravishingly detailed image were originally used to lift epics such as Ben-Hur and Lawrence of Arabia to godly proportions.
Seeing a film on 70mm is a transcendent experience for the senses, but the expenses and scarcity of equipment required for projection have been prohibitive for most theaters that would like to give it a whirl. Tarantino’s Hateful Eight roadshow is a massive undertaking, notable not only for the scope of its architect’s ambition but for what this could signify if the distributors, the Weinstein Company, have what it takes to pull off such a massive undertaking.
It’ll be a considerable feat if America’s projectors can screen the prints without a hitch, but if it works, it could open the floodgates for more major releases to dabble in the breathtaking visual 70 mm aesthetic. For the most part, America's projectionists seem to be handling this well — though there have been problems.
The other dimension of what a movie looks like by the time it springs onto the silver screen is its aspect ratio, the measurement expressing the height and width of a film image. Some films are projected as rectangles, some are projected as longer rectangles, and some are projected as squares. But all of this can be manipulated digitally with modern technology.
Most real-deal movies screen in a width-to-height ratio of either 1.85:1 or 2.39:1 in theater, which amounts to a large rectangle. But every month seems to produce new exceptions to the rule. The 2014 French-Canadian drama Mommy (the movie Netflix UK was displaying improperly above) stood out from the pack due to its unorthodox 1:1 ratio that mimicked an Instagram photo until one exhilarating sequence expanded to wider proportions. Wes Anderson’s The Grand Budapest Hotel leaped across multiple timelines and nimbly switched between 2.35, 1.85, and 1.37:1 (the so-called "Academy ratio," which was in popular use during the earlier days of Hollywood up until 1952).

Another way to understand this is in the difference between old, box-like standard-definition televisions, which had an aspect ratio of 4:3, and modern, high-definition TVs, which have an aspect ratio of 16:9. Standard definition was closer to a square than our current widescreens.
In a perfect world, projectionists would be able to field diverse proportions of film, but Anderson knew he’d have to send out specific instructions for those running Grand Budapest Hotel, because there is no shortage of opportunities to foul it up.
That, however, is not nearly as hazardous as home exhibition can be, where TV sets are liable to cut off, distend, or otherwise spoil the image. Usually a Blu-ray or DVD case will dictate the proper television settings for viewing the complete image, but the instinct to make use of the full TV screen can still result in an omission of important visual information.
Having this information not only creates the satisfaction of assigning a name to recognizable parts of the film experience, but it also equips you to maximize the quality of the same. Knowing how to identify the aspect ratio of a screening of West Side Story on 70mm won’t make the horns blare more brassily or the outfits pop with brighter color, but it could make the difference between fully viewing a movie's picture and getting a fraction of the whole in the comfort of your own home.
Today, when American cinema’s most popular auteur is singlehandedly pioneering a revival of old-fashioned film technology, remarking on specifics of film image is no longer solely a die-hard film geek thing. The right to a moving picture, in its most apropos and complete form, is one of those unalienable rights of moviegoers, like the right to whip unpopped popcorn kernels at the heads of people using cellphones.
Thus, a ticket purchased is a vote cast, a tacit sign of support behind a specific film, a specific theater, and specific mode of exhibition. The least moviegoers can do before casting that vote of crucial importance is arm themselves with knowledge.
Star Wars: The Force Awakens has dislodged James Cameron's Avatar as the top-selling movie in North American box office history. The Force Awakens' has grossed $760.6 million, passing Avatar's record of $760.5 million.
In terms of The Force Awakens' total worldwide haul, the film has some catching up to do. It's currently at $1.5 billion at the global box office, while Avatar sits at $2.78 billion. One factor that will affect The Force Awakens' worldwide earnings is that the film has yet to open in China, which it'll do on January 9. But if you look deeper into the numbers, Avatar made a killing overseas (roughly $2 billion, with $204 million of it coming from China); The Force Awakens has only hauled in $770 million so far.
Lots of people are rooting for The Force Awakens to displace Avatar from the top spot because Avatar hasn't aged well. And in hindsight, many believe its skillful use of 3D filmmaking techniques obscured its lack of substance:
Hey. Right now. Try to quote Avatar, the highest-grossing movie of all time. Quote ANY line. Or name 2 characters. No cheating.

The Force Awakens is arguably a better movie than Avatar and the rightful heir to the top spot at the worldwide box office. We can all agree that it's preferable for a good film to make the most money in movie history, rather than a bad one. Now The Force Awakens just has to start chipping away at that $1.3 billion gap.

Rating

Jessica Jones seems like the "cool girl" Gone Girl author Gillian Flynn warned us about.
Her hair is as dark as the shadows in her Hell's Kitchen apartment, she has great sex, she swigs brown liquor as if it were from the last bottle on Earth. She's savvy. She's smart. She's a size two. She burps, she kicks ass, she's witty, and she doesn't take shit. She gets things done.

This is, of course, all on purpose — a grand trick that makes the latter half of the season's first episode all the more damning. When Jessica's entire facade comes crashing down, we can see right through her, and all that strength and that don't-give-a-fuck attitude are overturned to reveal her blazing vulnerability. That point of realization is when the true story of Jessica Jones begins.


(Myles Aronowitz/Netflix)
Jessica Jones, a comic book superheroine created by writer Brian Michael Bendis and artist Michael Gaydos in 2001, is the second of four live-action Marvel superhero shows scheduled to debut on Netflix. And like Daredevil, the first Marvel-Netflix collaboration released earlier this year, Jessica Jones is a mordant show, delving into bloodier, more violent themes than we're used to seeing from Marvel's movies.
Kryten Ritter, all anime eyes and squid ink hair, plays the title character, a troubled private investigator who has the gifts of super strength, durability, and quasi-flight. She's gifted at solving mysteries in her sinful city — a place that, despite the presence of good guys like the Avengers, grows more soulless by the day. Cheaters, murders, addicts — none of them make Jones flinch.
But the show is darker on a more frightening, personal level.
Marvel movies and, to an extent, Daredevil deal with violence on a wide scale: alien invasions (The Avengers), maniacs with Infinity Stones (Guardians of the Galaxy), artificial intelligence trying to wipe out humanity (Avengers: Age of Ultron), and crime kingpins looking to stifle the city (Daredevil). While those are harrowing situations, the humans caught in the conflict are just collateral damage. There is nothing private about the violence.
Jessica Jones, on the other hand, explores the intimacy of abuse. The more personal the show gets as it delves into the abuse, recovery, trauma, and guilt, the harder it is to watch. Amid all this blood, death, and trauma (and there is plenty of all three), the most terrifying thing is watching someone endure it all and go on living. Survival isn't natural. It's work. Hard work.
Jones is a solid, promising show, perhaps the most artistically and thematically ambitious project Marvel has ever embarked upon. There are moments where it's downright sublime.
But it is not a pleasurable experience — not that it ever wanted to be.
Netflix
(Myles Aronowitz/Netflix)
Comic book purists are fickle. They tend to throw explosive, sometimes racist tantrums when the characters in film and TV adaptations don't match what they've read. So it was a bit surprising that when Krysten Ritter was cast in the title role of Jessica Jones, the news was met with a quiet approval. But Ritter had given fans plenty to believe in.
The last few projects in Ritter's career seem like a slow-boil audition for Jessica Jones. As Chloe on Don't Trust the B— in Apartment 23, she proved she could flit her eyelashes and sharpen into sarcasm on a dime. And her work as the wounded, ill-fated Jane on Breaking Bad showed she could play brittle and haunted by addiction. Jessica Jones boasts all of the above qualities.
But these flashes don't so much as hint at the thrill of watching Ritter unfurl her leathery wings and tap into the emotional role of Jessica. The first time we see her, she's thrown a man — a man who has been devastated to learn that his wife is cheating on him — through her office door window. "And then there's the matter of your bill," she says coldly.
Even before flashbacks to Jessica's past trauma, Ritter has shown just how damaged by it the hero has been. She flashes a brittleness when talking to two concerned parents looking for their missing girl; there's a fragility when she sees an advertisement for Trish Walker (more on her in a bit) plastered on a bus. Her frigidness, her sardonic eye rolls, her tough talk — all are moments where she isn't afraid, little pockets of time where she's convinced herself that she's more than a victim.
Ritter has to do the heavy lifting here. Jessica carries most of the show's scenes, and Ritter is tasked with playing a character who is damaged, riddled with emotional scar tissue, but also capable of hope. She turns in a beguiling performance, savvy, tough, and stubborn, and she allows a few glimpses of damage to break through when needed. She's nothing short of magical.

(Myles Aronowitz/Netflix)
I'm sure some fans will be tempted to woobify, or create a romantic fandom for David Tennant's Kilgrave. The villain is cut from the pale, charming anglomania of the moment. He's impossibly stylish, he's relatively good-looking, he wasn't hugged enough as child, and he just wants to be loved. Those are all qualities modern fandom often loves.
But romanticizing this man would be a sick mistake.
Underneath the nouveau elegance of his haberdashery and buttery accent, Kilgrave is the most heinous villain we've seen from Marvel. He has the power to control the minds of others, from telling them when they're allowed to speak to pushing them to commit suicide.
His mind control makes for some darkly humorous physical comedy, but Tennant's true gift is in capturing the man's sinister streak while offering the tiniest possible sliver of sympathy — he can't see how psychotic he is because he was experimented on when he was a child. But he also can't see the difference between love and rape.
He is obsessed with Jones because she's the one thing he possessed once but can't control anymore. And he's determined to get her back, which he attempts to do by isolating her and hurting the few allies she has. He can hurt her so deeply because he knows her so well. He understands what triggers her.
His violence is intimate and personal, aimed at the most fragile parts of her psyche. Even when he isn't directly putting her or her friends in danger, the possibility that he manipulated Jones's friends, her lover Luke Cage (Mike Colter), or even adversaries like attorney Jeryn Hogarth (Carrie-Anne Moss), or found a way to convince someone else to kill them, is always looming.
The show doesn't explicitly show everything that Kilgrave made Jessica do. We get glimpses here and there of different points in their abusive relationship. And there's an assumption that he made her and other women his sexual playthings.
That choice makes the final moments of the show, where Jessica says he raped her, more powerful. He calls her testimony into doubt and says she's a liar. But we trust her. Jessica's most constant struggle is to stop blaming herself for the things Kilgrave did to her. She has to, at some point, accept that she was a victim. And she doesn't do so easily.
But Kilgrave isn't the show's only villain. He is part of a larger narrative about control and abuse.
The show can be deeply cynical in its worldview. People with power and control of a relationship, whether between a man and a woman, a parent and a child, the rich and poor, or someone with superpowers and no superpowers, will abuse that power and control. And people who have been abused live in fear that they will lose control again. They become less human, they become less hopeful, they lose their light, and at some point, they can't be saved.
"People can change, Jessie," a child abuser tells Jessica, implying that she's seen the light. The show sees right through this.
"It doesn’t make the bad shit you did go away," Jessica replies. It's an implicit acknowledgement of the inescapability of trauma and why recovery is painful. It's the whole 13-hour season wrapped up into two sentences.
With how dark and gruesome this show can get, the show's fifth episode, "AKA the Sandwich Saved Me," stands out for being the exact opposite. The main plot is a Scooby Doo–like plan to catch Kilgrave, who has turned Jessica's neighbor Malcolm (Eka Darville) into an addict and a personal spy.
But we also see Jessica's pre-private investigator life, her friendship with Trish (Rachael Taylor), and her life before Kilgrave found her. There's so much joy in it that it almost feels like a defect off showrunner Melissa Rosenberg's Jessica Jones assembly line.
Take for instance, this atypically playful exchange. "Jewel is a great superhero name," Trish tells Jessica, as they try to figure out what kind of superhero she will be.
"Jewel is a stripper's name, a really slutty stripper. And if I wear that thing [a spandex costume], you're going to have to call me Cameltoe," Jessica replies, holding back a laugh.
It's a tender moment between two friends. It's also a nod to the comic books (Jones went by Jewel in her superhero adventures at one time), and it gets at the show's mentality toward superheroes. They're meant to be joyful. Saving the world is second nature to them.
But in this world, that's easier said than done.
For Jessica, heroism is reactive and personal. She has no grand plan to save the world or even individuals. She just wants to save those closest to her. The fifth episode's main plot, with Jessica fighting for Malcolm's life and forcing him to detox, is more in line with the salvation she can offer — small change compared with the world saving the Avengers are doing, but no less important.

(Myles Aronowitz/Netflix)
The one glimmer of hope tucked into the dark heart of this show is its perspective on rehabilitation. Just like there is no one way to superhero, the show makes clear that there's no one way to heal and that recovery is painfully personal.
Friends, family, and lovers can only help so much. That understanding — that recovery can't be neatly answered by therapy or violence or both — makes the show devastatingly in touch with raw humanity.
Jessica Jones is also against facile notions of justice. It isn't about getting payback against the people that hurt you. It's deeper and more frustrating than that.
In the latter half of the season, each character has his or her own view on how to neutralize Kilgrave, ranging from punishment to killing to rendering him powerless. Kilgrave, being the master villain that he is, has instituted failsafes — at one point he tells two people to slash their faces off if he doesn't return with Jessica because he knows how much she values human life — rendering all those plans null. It's a literal message that justice isn't simple, and it often isn't satisfying.
"You'll heal wrong," Trish tells Jessica in the 11th episode of the season.
Without skipping a beat, Jessica replies.
"Story of my life." she says.
If there's anything this show has taught us, it's that she's right.
The Hunger Games has come to an end.
Mockingjay — Part 2, the fourth and final movie in the series, is now in theaters. It's the grand conclusion to one of the most prosperous and influential franchises in entertainment history, one that ranks right alongside Twilight and Harry Potter, as well as Star Wars and Marvel's Cinematic Universe. In terms of US box office success, Catching Fire is 12th most successful movie of all time in domestic gross, outpacing movies like Iron Man 3, The Lion King, Spider-Man, Jurassic Park, Frozen, and Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2.
The franchise is one of the most ambitious, informative pieces of art about war and violence aimed at young adults. But something is different this time around.

In contrast to Harry Potter or Star Wars and the "never-quite-done" feeling of those franchises, Mockingjay — Part 2 feels more terminal. The mania of the source novels' fandom has quieted, and we aren't as concerned with some of the trilogy's timelier themes as we once were. Even Katniss Everdeen — the hero of the franchise, the "Girl on Fire" — is a bit wistful.
That isn't to say The Hunger Games isn't awesome or that author Suzanne Collins and film studio Lionsgate couldn't someday surprise us with a Finnick Odair prequel, but it truly feels like Mockingjay — Part 2 is the last chapter of the Hunger Games franchise and, more broadly, the first relic of the genre of dystopian young adult literature it pioneered.
When Suzanne Collins wrote Mockingjay, she effectively shut the door to any possible sequels. The book isn't as tight or as splashy as The Hunger Games and Catching Fire, and many of its concepts are harder to grasp. It's a less exciting read, and it's much more somber. Collins wanted to make crystal clear the damaging effects of war — a much heftier task. And it's easy for that to get lost in the first two books and their respective movies because the Hunger Games themselves are the sexiest, most mythical part of the stories.
But even though Mockingjay — Part 2 is receiving mixed reviews that are weaker than those of the first movies in the franchise, it isn't a failure. That's because it, along with Mockingjay — Part 1, stays true to Collins's vision.
With The Hunger Games, Collins didn't create the same type of world that, say, J.K. Rowling did with Harry Potter. Hers is more finite and constrained than a school full of adventurers: The most interesting people in Collins's stories are the ones who participate in the Games, only 3 percent (one of 24) of them survive, and we've seen the stories of those who do survive who aren't background material (Finnick, Johanna, etc.) in the second and third books.
In Mockingjay —Part 2, the Games are finished and the revolution is on the verge of winning. Collins's ending in the novel sees Katniss realizing the brutality of war, choosing to break the cycle of conflict, and then living in a time of fragile, weak peace. She achieves this by killing Alma Coin, the leader of the revolution she once believed in; Katniss believes Coin will just drive Panem into another cycle of death, the same script as before but with a different cast (the poorer districts oppressing the citizens of the Capitol). The movie keeps that ending — playing it to the last note — effectively ending the saga then and there.
A prequel or sequel film would feel odd and forced — as odd and forced as making two movies out of one book, which Lionsgate already did.
There was really no reason other than money that the third novel in the Hunger Games trilogy, Mockingjay, was cleaved into two movies. Mockingjay — Part 1 ended up feeling like a placeholder — my colleague Todd VanDerWerff called it a blockbuster that hated being a blockbuster — that saved most of the action for Part 2. Meanwhile, the unnecessarily long wait between Catching Fire (the best movie in the franchise) and the conclusion of the story in Part 2, with Part 1 just delaying the end of the series to sell a few more tickets, has dulled some of the excitement and momentum. Putting out a prequel or a sequel a couple of years from now would be giving us something no one is asking for.
The main theme of The Hunger Games, the first book in the trilogy, concerns class warfare. All the world building and lore creation is wrapped around the idea of inequality and how it's capable and powerful enough to leach every last drop of humanity from people. The rich inhabitants of the Capitol use their wealth to establish subservience from neighboring districts, subservience so strong that the poor kill one another for sport. This continues for the next book and a half.
Collins's fascination with inequality makes perfect sense when you take note of when the books were written and published. The first novel in the trilogy came out in 2008, when the recession had a firm grip on the United States — middle-class families were hit devastatingly hard, and many people's retirement savings disintegrated. The next two books were published in 2009 and 2010, respectively — years in which the unemployment rate hovered around 10 percent (it's now down to 5 percent). And the first Hunger Games movie was released in 2012 — an election year in which inequality and wealth distribution (see: Mitt Romney's 47 percent comments) were major talking points. These factors made The Hunger Games' message more pertinent, more urgent.
Since the books debuted in 2008, the economy has stabilized and the unemployment rate has dropped. This doesn't mean American adults have entirely forgotten how bad things were, or that there aren't people who are still recovering from the financial collapse. But the argument around inequality is being framed in a different context; taxes are still an issue, but inequality is just one of many topics, ranging from immigration to issues of gender and race, that are part of the current political conversation.
The Hunger Games movies and books still offer plenty of commentary on feminism, violence, and trauma — important topics that are currently present in our national dialogue — but none of those subjects is as prickly or pronounced in the franchise's story as its treatment of class warfare.
Young adult literature is just as sprawling and diverse as books aimed at adults; there are myriad titles to read. But what often happens with YA isn't that different from how Hollywood poaches the book industry — one book gets popular, and then the Hollywood machine options it, spurring interest in its genre across the industry.
Massive interest in Twilight (which was published in 2005 and adapted into a movie in 2008) spawned a voracious Hollywood interest in books like the Mortal Instruments series (which began publishing in 2007)  and the very successful Beautiful Creatures (2009). Hunger Games–esque books like The Maze Runner (2009) and Divergent (2011) were also adapted into movies and became successful in their own right.
But these days, Hollywood's YA love affair isn't with The Hunger Games. Rather, it's in a phase punctuated by John Green, the author of the massively popular YA novel turned film The Fault in Our Stars. Green's books are more realistic, more about "normal" teenage life, than Collins's dystopian novels. As Genevieve Koski wrote here at Vox:
The rise of so-called "GreenLit," meaning realistic, self-aware stories about teenagers, is often characterized as a reaction to the influx of paranormal romance and dystopian fantasy stories that popped up in the wake of Twilight and The Hunger Games' multimedia success — as if personal stories of teen alienation haven't existed since at least Catcher in the Rye (a book, incidentally, that Green also endorses).
But the biggest name in YA at the moment is Rainbow Rowell. Rowell's work is a fixture on the New York Times's YA bestseller list. Her work is introspective, real, and self-aware but treats the idea of fan fiction and monumental works like Harry Potter and Twilight with reverie. One of Rowell's most popular books is Fangirl, a coming-of-age story about a college freshman who writes fan fiction.
What's great about Rowell's work is that it combines several elements of YA and is starting to make people think about YA as the diverse genre it truly is. As Koski also wrote:
Assuming and promoting the idea that one type of fiction is the dominant mode not only disrespects readers who may continue to love something years after it's "on trend," it also disrespects the individual writers doing great work outside that mode.
The rub on The Hunger Games is that it totally benefited from the "dominant mode" idea. There was an unquenchable mania when the first movie was released, so much so that people started taking up archery to be more like Katniss Everdeen; some people actually named their babies after the character. And while YA lit may be starting to break away from a "dominant mode" model, Hollywood is still stuck in it. As a result, it's infatuated with John Green and the "Greenlit" genre, making The Hunger Games feel more like a nostalgic favorite than something we should be completely obsessed with right now.
Katniss and everything she stands for — independence, ferocity, kicking ass — are now pop culture fixtures. This girl from District 12 and her coming-of-age story are part of the pantheon, joining legends like Harry Potter, Holden Caulfield, and Peter Parker.
This is significant. The success of The Hunger Games has changed the way movie executives think about young adult and female audiences. Its huge box office draw shattered the myopic myth that no one would want to watch an action movie with a female lead (though it still exists in some form today; just look at the delays in getting Marvel's Captain Marvel movie onto the big screen).
The Hunger Games franchise proved that girls and women should be taken seriously as consumers of culture and entertainment. The mania, the obsessions, the sprawling reach of the fandom — it was a powerful thing. Check that, it is a powerful thing.
As it comes to a close, the Hunger Games franchise isn't entering its final opening weekend at the box office with the same kind of hype it once enjoyed. But there will be no forgetting its impact.
The best thing about The Hunger Games: Mockingjay — Part 2 is how unconcerned it is with what we expect in terms of closure of a happy ending.

Rating
This will come as no surprise to fans of the challenging, surprisingly provocative book upon which it's based, but the movie doesn't offer up easy closure or answers at any time. It's not a deeply subtle film or anything — every action is carried out in the boldest of strokes and then lit on fire — but it does have more on its mind than bringing the story to a rousing conclusion. In some ways, Mockingjay — Part 2 is a teenage primer on the cyclical nature of oppression and the way power keeps feeding said oppression.

That's pretty grim stuff for a holiday blockbuster, but Mockingjay — Part 2 is buoyed by the fact that the Hunger Games movies have always had a far better cast than they deserve, starting with star Jennifer Lawrence and continuing down to nearly everybody else (save one major exception).
You're not going to leave the theater cheering at the end of Mockingjay — Part 2. You're going to leave the theater feeling a little drained and like you need to call a loved one. That's not necessarily a bad thing — more of our blockbusters could stand to be tonally ambitious — but the movie also makes quite a few promises it can't keep. It's worth your time, but it doesn't top the second installment in the Hunger Games franchise, 2013's Catching Fire, which is still the series' best.
Here's the good, the bad, and the weird of Mockingjay — Part 2.
Maybe that doesn't sound like a "good" quality to you, but hear me out.
The plot of this movie, such as it is, involves the slow slog of the rebel forces through the oppressive Capitol, toward the mansion of the despotic ruler of the future dystopia known as Panem. As the rebels (who include our heroes) get closer to their goal, more and more death rains upon them, even as these battles are repackaged as reality show entertainment, complete with the framing provided to the murderous Hunger Games that give the series its title.

The point of all of this is simple: War is a machine that grinds ever onward, and it steamrolls its participants. It's repackaged as entertainment for an unsuspecting populace, lest they get too bored by it, but those who took part in it have to live with the scars forever.
Nowhere is this more evident than in the face of Katniss Everdeen (Lawrence), who spends almost the entire first half of the movie in a state of shell-shocked horror, wandering from one encounter to the next, after a former trusted compatriot tried to kill her. It's like she's been hollowed out and propped up, transformed into a symbol more than a person.
And that's literally what happens to her! Over the course of the Hunger Games franchise, she's evolved from the girl she was in the early going into a figurehead of the rebellion and, finally, a propaganda piece. In Mockingjay — Part 2, she tries to reclaim some of her autonomy, but every time she makes a choice, she realizes how easily it's co-opted, and every time she plunges deeper into battle, she suffers new psychological scars. This movie doesn't end in explosions — it ends in hushed whispers and hopes for a calmer future.
Mockingjay — Part 2 adapts the final book's goofy epilogue pretty much wholesale, right down to turning one character's inner monologue from that section into something an actor has to say out loud. It doesn't work.
Ending on a point of irresolution — things are no longer getting worse, but there's no guarantee they'll improve — is a bold choice for the franchise, in both book and film form, but neither has the guts to truly end at the best possible moment (which is roughly the scene before the epilogue). In general, Mockingjay — Part 2 botches most of its big emotional moments, either giving them too little room to breathe or too much.
All told, it uses a heavy hand when a light one would do, and vice versa. That ends up feeling a little strange.
Francis Lawrence (no relation to the star) has some issues (see below), but in general he's proved to be just the visual stylist the Hunger Games franchise needed. In particular, he shows a relish for depicting the series' cyclical oppression via deftly chosen images.
In particular, there's one moment around the film's midpoint where the tyrannical President Snow (Donald Sutherland) addresses his nation after he believes Katniss has been killed. (She's still alive.) As he's speaking, however, his feed is overridden, mid-sentence, by that of rebel president Coin (Julianne Moore), who offers her own message about what Katniss's death means to the nation.
For just an instant, the director pulls back to show us Moore's face projected just over Sutherland's, as he watches on TV, unable to do anything about the woman who's just interrupted him. It's a brilliant image, both for how it plays visually and for how it expresses part of the series' subtext without beating viewers over the head: All who seek power can be corrupted by it. Don't assume anyone has your best interests in mind.
Francis Lawrence has long been afforded the benefit of the doubt when it comes to action sequences, because those in Catching Fire were so much better than those in the original Hunger Games film, directed by Gary Ross. But "better than Gary Ross" doesn't necessarily equal "great at filming action sequences," and there are too many in Mockingjay — Part 2 where it's not remotely clear what's happening, who's in danger, or who's been killed.
In a sequence near the film's climax, for example, Katniss and her compatriots have disappeared into the tunnels beneath the Capitol, inching their way toward Snow's mansion, when they hear whispers in the dark and realize they're being pursued by Mutts — strange genetic hybrid mutations cooked up by the Capitol's scientists.
The scenes that follow start out strong, as the director cribs visuals from Aliens and The Descent to follow the various characters through spooky tunnels. Danger could erupt at any moment. But once the Mutts eventually attack, everything falls apart. Major characters' lives are put in danger and even lost in this sequence, but it's hard to figure out exactly what has happened until the next scene, when you can take a head count. And one potentially powerful moment is destroyed simply because of how it's filmed.
The two halves of Mockingjay don't allow Jennifer Lawrence to showcase as wide a range as she did in the first two Hunger Games films — again, Katniss is shell-shocked — but when she lets out some great, gasping sobs in Part 2, the result is an emotional catharsis the whole series has been building toward. There's also a moment early on where Katniss indicates a willingness to die, and the actress is riveting there as well. The franchise has made her a superstar, and she's always been more talented than it deserves.
But everyone else in the cast takes their cues from her, and the film is better for it. As poor, beleaguered Peeta, Josh Hutcherson has the mien of a believably downtrodden hound dog. And Jena Malone (sadly relegated to only a few scenes) is still one of the series' highlights as prickly, hilarious Johanna Mason.
The series' older cast is also full of riches, from the icily brilliant Sutherland to the calm, calculating Moore. It's still a shock to see Philip Seymour Hoffman (who died during the production of this film) pop up, but his Plutarch Heavensbee is a gravelly, world-weary presence. And, finally, Woody Harrelson and Elizabeth Banks keep the movie from becoming too self-serious with their facility with occasional laugh lines, though both are also able to carry more serious moments as well.
As the third point of The Hunger Games' love triangle, Liam Hemsworth has always been wanting. Some of that is because his character, Gale, is self-consciously designed as the third point of a love triangle, and some of it is because he just doesn't seem to have believable chemistry with Jennifer Lawrence. But he's also not the world's most charismatic star.
That wasn't such a big deal in other movies, where Gale was less of a presence. But he's everywhere in Mockingjay — Part 2, and in the heavily emotional scenes he shares with Katniss and Peeta, he just falls flat.
In general, if there's a lot of Gale onscreen, you can probably hit the restroom, is all I'm saying.
The very fact that The Hunger Games exists — much less became a major film franchise! — goes against so much of what we understand about what audiences want to see nowadays. Sure, it's based on a series of young adult novels, but it digs deeper into the darker sides of the human condition than most other successful YA movies. It's grim throughout, and by the end it's largely abandoned the typical blockbuster format to focus on tiny, interpersonal scenes about how hard it is to live in times of war.
Plus, the storytelling is bolder and braver than it gets credit for. Mockingjay — Part 2 starts, essentially, in the middle of a scene (as Katniss confronts the aftermath of Part 1's cliffhanger ending), and it concludes on a note of semi-closure but nowhere near a note of healing. There are no big victories, and the only time Katniss makes an actual choice or has any agency, she essentially makes an argument for outright anarchy.
I don't know why, precisely, this series caught on, but I'm glad it did. Imperfect as it is, there's never been anything quite like The Hunger Games, and all attempts to copy it have failed to replicate its dark, spiny soul.
The Hunger Games: Mockingjay — Part 2 is playing in theaters throughout the country.
'Tis the season for holiday movies, and this year offers a legitimately great one: The Night Before, which reunites writer/director Jonathan Levine with his 50/50 stars Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Seth Rogen for a not-so-family-friendly Christmas romp that's both hilarious and surprisingly touching.

Rating
The movie centers on Ethan (Gordon-Levitt), a 30-something aspiring musician who's been a bit stuck in life ever since his parents were killed by a drunk driver around Christmastime. Since the accident, he and his two best friends, Isaac (Rogen) and Chris (Anthony Mackie), have maintained an annual holiday tradition of partying together on Christmas Eve, one that involves karaoke, the tree at the Rockefeller Center, and the search for the white whale of Christmas parties: the Nutcracker Ball, a mysterious and exclusive event that promises a life-changing partying experience.
After 10 years of this, Isaac and Chris have decided it's time to put the tradition to bed. But then Ethan finds three tickets to the Nutcracker Ball, and the guys agree to make their last Christmas together the wildest one yet. What follows is a classic "one crazy night" movie with a Christmas twist. It's basically The Odyssey, except instead of an epic poem about a warrior trying to return home,The Night Before is the story of a man-child attempting to spend Christmas Eve getting epically fucked up with his "ride or die" bros.
Of course, The Odyssey isn't exactly Christmassy, so it's a good thing that writer/director Levine didn't find all his inspiration in classic Greek literature. Part of what makes The Night Before so enjoyable is that it smartly takes a lesson from — and sometimes pays direct homage to — some of the best Christmas movies out there. Here are five of them.
Early in The Night Before, Isaac and Chris have a frank discussion about how they're basically enabling Ethan's continued drift through life by sticking to the Christmas tradition the trio started when they were much younger. Isaac is now married with a child on the way, and Chris has become a famous football player, but Ethan is still doing the same things he's been doing for more than a decade. So when Isaac and Chris decide it's time to leave their Christmas Eve excesses in the past and Ethan finds himself abandoned by his de facto family, he has to grow up and take matters into his own hands.
This is, of course, reminiscent of Kevin McCallister's plight in Home Alone, and while Ethan may be battling drunk Santas instead of bumbling petty thieves, both are fighting to keep the spirit of Christmas intact.
As a bonus, The Night Before even squeezes in a couple a loving homages to Kevin and co., including a true Home Alone pratfall brought about by Micro Machines.

None of The Night Before's characters are quite as grumpy and unfeeling as A Christmas Carol's Ebenezer Scrooge, but they are all motivated by their own selfish concerns. Chris wants to impress his football teammates by providing them with mass quantities of weed (of a strain aptly named the "ghost of Christmas present"). Ethan wants to make it to the Nutcracker Ball so he can see his ex (Lizzy Caplan), whom he's still hung up on (and maybe employ some Christmas sentimentality to get her back). And Isaac — whose wife, Betsy (Jillian Bell), has presented him with a box full of "every drug on Earth," as a reward for him being her "Dwayne Johnson" during her pregnancy — mostly wants to find his phone while consuming as many mind-altering substances as possible. As they all run off in pursuit of their own agendas, things predictably dissolve into disaster.
But eventually they realize that the only way they'll get any satisfaction is to put each other first — and Ethan, who's been feeling useless and cut off from his friends, has a George Bailey–esque moment of realization that he means as much to them as they do to him.
Much like A Christmas Story's Ralphie doggedly pursues the Red Ryder Carbine Action 200-shot Range Model air rifle, Ethan has a singular focus and purpose: to find the location of the Nutcracker Ball and to have the Best Night Ever. He fights his way through obstacle after obstacle to reach his goal. And when he finally does, it seems like the stars have aligned for him — but then, naturally, he shoots his eye out (metaphorically speaking).
Ethan's euphoric high immediately collapses into a crushing low, and he's forced to realize that even the shiniest of presents or the most debaucherous of tinsel-decked affairs won't make everything perfect. Luckily, the pain is temporary and even leads to some good; Ralphie ends up with a fond memory of his "best Christmas present ever," while Ethan uses his failure as a catalyst to change his life permanently for the better.
Ethan and Elf's Buddy the Elf could probably find some things to talk about: Both orphans, they grow up in atypical"families" who continue to accept them even after they stop fitting in so well. But while Buddy decides of his own volition that it's time for him to leave the North Pole, Ethan is being made to end his stasis by his friends' progressing lives. Both are plunged into strange and frightening worlds — New York City for Buddy, adulthood for Ethan — and both have more than a little trouble adapting.
Eventually they both recognize that though things can't stay the same forever, it doesn't mean they have to leave their old selves behind entirely. Traditions don't have to end, they just evolve — sometimes into something even better than before.
This applies to pretty much any Christmas movie, but Love, Actually is an excellent example. As tearjerking and emotionally manipulative as the movie may be, it's still beautifully poignant thanks to the huge range of relationships it explores. Unlike most rom-coms, it doesn't treat a budding heterosexual relationship between an impossibly attractive man and an equally attractive woman as the end-all, be-all of human interaction. Instead, it understands humanity's reliance on meaningful connections — between mothers and children, between husbands and wives, between women and pop music, and, yes, between friends.
It's this connection between friends that leads to The Night Before's best scene, in which it takes a brief pause from the drugs and profanity to show Ethan, Isaac, and Chris sharing a moment of true vulnerability. Thankfully, it doesn't box them into the tired "dudes are afraid of expressing emotions" stereotype; instead, it gives the three men feelings and reactions that actual humans experience. That's ultimately what makes The Night Before more than just another shallow comedy. That's what makes us actually care about the characters and want them to find happiness (or at least not die of a cocaine overdose).
Christmas, after all, isn't about drugs or parties or even getting to sing onstage with Miley Cyrus (though Ethan might disagree). It's about the people we love — and that's a lesson The Night Before takes to heart.
The Night Before is playing in theaters across the country.
It wasn't until the final shot of Carol that I realized how tightly the film — which hits theaters November 20 — had wrapped me in its web.

Rating
I knew I was interested. I knew I was moved. And I knew I was invested in the characters' story. But I didn't know how enraptured I'd become until director Todd Haynes's camera caught just the slightest flicker of movement across a woman's face, her lips curling into the faintest hint of a smile.

And then I stumbled out of the theater, a little woozy and gobsmacked by both the power of what I'd seen and its restrained grace. It felt like I was surfacing after a long time underwater, as if I had swum to the surface too swiftly and developed the bends.
I love movies. I look for the best in everything I see — even the stinkers. But it's rare for one to send me so completely over the moon.
Yet here was Carol, and it had me eating out of its hand.
Carol centers on two women who meet in early 1950s New York, fall in love on a road trip out West (to nowhere in particular), and upon their return must deal with the fallout of being two women in love in early 1950s New York — where a word to define what we think of as "lesbian" barely even exists.
The title character is Carol Aird (Cate Blanchett), a New Jersey housewife whose bewildered husband knows of her relationships with women but thinks he can still make her love him by endlessly reminding her of propriety and her duties as a wife and mother. But she finds herself entranced by Therese Belivet (Rooney Mara), a young shopgirl who's clearly never pursued a relationship with another woman before.
Their love isn't just driven by the usual physical attraction and discovery of compatibility, though that's present. It's also driven by a kind of obsession, as Carol leaves her gloves at Therese's desk, clearly hoping the younger woman might return them. Their courtship plays out as a kind of extended ritual, circling closer and closer to actual physical contact, like an approximation of the coded same-sex relationships and desires that existed in films of the era Carol depicts.
What Haynes — who previously visited the 1950s in Far From Heaven and a slightly earlier era in HBO's Mildred Pierce miniseries — does so well is frame images so that we can see how both Carol and Therese have become the only thing the other cares about, even if they're not quite aware of it yet. He filmed the movie on Super 16 mm film, which gives it a slightly gauzy, fuzzy feeling that beautifully approximates those first few days of falling in love and feeling like you might never stop tumbling.
But he also illustrates how possible it is for those in LGBTQ relationships to feel isolated, alone on an island that's separate from even the one that honeymooning couples tend to discover themselves upon. In the world of Carol, same-sex relationships are carried out via clandestine code and signal. For almost the entire film, Therese isn't even out to herself, until she suddenly is, and the world reorients itself around her.
Carol is based on Patricia Highsmith's The Price of Salt, published in 1952 under the pseudonym Claire Morgan. The book, which was a massive success, became famous as the one novel of its time to feature lesbians who weren't afflicted with a psychiatric disorder. Indeed, its fame stemmed from the fact that it had a happy ending. (Whether that ending remained intact in the film, I will not say.)
Screenwriter Phyllis Nagy — a longtime confidant of Highsmith — has adapted the novel to the screen in a fashion that captures some of the purple dialogue and prose common to the era but just as often sets it aside for safe small talk, beneath which burbles deep currents of longing.
Haynes and his technical crew capture this undertow through careful choices in framing and production design. Spot color in Sandy Powell's costumes highlight just what (and whom) we're supposed to be looking at. Edward Lachman's cinematography ensures that every tiny moment of physical interaction between Carol and Therese is perfectly proportioned for its import to the action of the story. Carter Burwell's score swells exactly when it needs to swell.
In particular, pay attention to the way Haynes and company utilize the motif of hands moving along a human body. Carol's hands drift along Therese's shoulders as Therese plays piano. In later scenes, she lowers them slightly, touching Therese's elbow or arm. At all times, the camera follows these moments in close-up, reading a hand's touch like it might otherwise read a minute shift in facial expression in a more traditional shot.
By the time the camera drifts over the pair's naked bodies, entwined in sleep, we've been trained to notice these things. The shoulder touch and the naked embrace hold the same level of power, because they are equally welcomed by these women and equally forbidden by the world they live in.
It's probably no surprise to hear that Blanchett is tremendous in Carol. She's perhaps the finest living actor of the moment, able to transform any role, no matter how rotten the movie, into something living and breathing and vital. And yet Carol Aird might be her finest performance. Blanchett constructs a woman so accustomed to living in these kinds of codes that she's become a statue that emotes only when she has no other choice.
Mara's work is no less revelatory, and she's constantly revealing new ways that Therese's seeming naiveté is a false front she uses to distract from her true aims. Sarah Paulson only appears in a few key scenes as a former lover of Carol's who has now become her closest friend, but she presents a brittle strength of her own.
Kyle Chandler (as Carol's husband) and Jake Lacy (as Therese's boyfriend) are well-cast, as both can evoke a kind of sympathy for how little they understand why they can never be with the women they love, while also slipping, at a moment's notice, into a representation of the society that would rather keep the two lovers apart. (Chandler, in particular, is crucial for this — you have to believe he would never physically hurt Carol but would destroy her in other ways.)
What's key, though, is that Carol isn't some movie about overcoming societal misconceptions about lesbians in 1950s New York. There are hints of the kind of damage Carol and Therese might suffer if their relationship became public, and there are moments when characters threaten to do just that, but the film never pushes these ideas to their breaking points.
It is, instead, a love story — one in which the word "lesbian" is never once uttered. This is not a film about a political movement or cause, except obliquely. It is, instead, a movie about a revolution of the self, a story about a young woman who starts the film unable to say who she is and ends it able to say that she is many things — a friend, a photographer, and someone who loved deeply another woman named Carol.
Carol is playing in limited release. It will expand throughout the country in the weeks to come.
It looks like the Jem and the Holograms movie might make it into the history books after all — but not for a positive reason. John M. Chu's weaksauce adaptation of the 1980s Hasbro toy turned cartoon is being yanked from the vast majority of theaters just two weeks after opening due to its dismal numbers, Yahoo Finance reports, having grossed a mere $2.1 million so far.
Pulling the movie is an unprecedented move for a wide release, but makes good business sense in light of something that not only fails resoundingly as a film, but also fails as a nostalgia piece — which, honestly, might be the greater sin in today’s pop cultureverse.
Perhaps the only positive thing I can say about the truly, truly, truly terrible Jem is that it conjures up memories of another film with which it shares many surface-level similarities, but that manages to succeed in every way Jem fails: 2001’s Josie and the Pussycats.
Now, granted, Josie wasn’t exactly a critical darling when it premiered  — reviews could charitably be called "mixed" — and it was a certified box office bomb. But the cheeky adaptation of the musty Archie Comics characters-cum-1970s-cartoon has accrued a significant cult following in the years since it slunk out of theaters and on to home video.
Despite being perhaps the most 2001 movie imaginable — its pop music world is one of Total Request Live, physical media, and brick-and-mortar record stores — Josie still plays well today as both a tweaked musical comedy and a dark satire of the music industry. While it’s impossible to definitively predict the strange alchemy that creates a cult film, it’s a safe bet that Jem will not enjoy the same sort of appreciation down the road.
It didn’t have to be this way. Jem has same basic DNA as Josie: It’s a teen-focused musical with a music industry setting, based on a cartoon property ages past its cultural expiration date. Hell, the titles even echo each other.
But where Josie is bright, funny, and surprisingly daring, Jem is dreary, somber, and utterly banal. Jem is the moody, self-centered teenager to Josie’s "punk-rock prom queen," and while that theoretically could make for a pointed modern update of the earlier film’s sunny worldview, Jem is too thematically and emotionally vacant to be afforded such consideration.
In honor of the movie that Jem could have been, let’s look at some of the lessons it could, and should, have learned from its vastly superior spiritual successor.
The strangest thing about Jem is how much effort it puts into ignoring its Day-Glo Saturday-morning-cartoon origins. (The dark, lackluster trailer for the film turned off a lot of fans before the movie even hit theaters.) Outside of perhaps Juliette Lewis’s teeth-gnashing performance as evil Starlight Enterprises honcho Erica Raymond, there’s nothing about this Jem that could be called even remotely cartoonish. Instead, it shoots for a sort of middle ground between coming-of-age story and cautionary fame tale, piling too much narrative and emotional weight onto its tissue-thin cartoon foundation.

Jerrica/Jem (Audrey Peeples) seems thrilled to be a rock star. (Universal Pictures)
This isn’t to say that a kiddie cartoon couldn’t beget a serious-minded live-action adaptation, but movie history is not exactly brimming with successful examples of that approach. The default for live-action adaptations of kids’ cartoons tends to be a more or less straight tonal translation — think the Transformers and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles films — and even more experimental efforts, like Robert Altman’s much-maligned (but secretly great) Popeye, know well enough to recognize and honor the material’s cartoon origins even as they establish their own distinct tone.
Josie and the Pussycats may be the finest example of adapting cartoon material to live action without being a straight tonal translation. Its bright colors and goofy attitude honor both the Hanna-Barbera cartoon and Archie comics that birthed the characters, but there’s a strong satirical bite to the story and humor that modernizes the musty material and makes it capable of sustaining its own film-length narrative.

Rather than ignoring the fact that it’s based on a cheap, disposable cartoon property, Josie embraces that fact. There’s even a throwaway joke where a seemingly useless character explains her presence by saying "I was in the comics." Jem, meanwhile, is content to take a screamingly unoriginal movie premise and slap on elements of the original cartoon — the pink hair and makeup, the names, the magical earrings — in hopes of livening it up, like Lisa Frank stickers on a plain black Trapper Keeper.
Jem’s tagline — "Every generation needs a voice" — telegraphs the fact that the film is out to make a Grand Statement. Unfortunately, Ryan Landels's screenplay doesn’t have a very clear idea of what that statement is.
Jem brims over with trite platitudes about being yourself and how music can change the world. But despite parroting all the right clichés, Jem doesn’t really have much of a point of view, beyond patting its viewers on the head and telling them they’re special and pretty. It’s not a good look, and Jem comes across screamingly phony and pandering in its attempts to say something meaningful.
Josie, meanwhile, uses the fact that most pop music and artists are disposable to its advantage. Josie (Rachel Leigh Cook) and her bandmates (Rosario Dawson and Tara Reid) get caught up in a music industry machine that churns through hot young acts and tosses them aside as soon as they stop being beneficial to the bottom line. That’s a standard insight into the pop music industry, but Josie takes it a step further by incorporating subliminal messaging and corporate branding into its musical world, commenting on the corporatization of musical artistry in hilariously over-the-top fashion. (There’s hardly a frame in the movie that doesn’t feature a brand logo.)

Josie and the Pussycats seizes the opportunity to go way, way over the top with its corporate branding.
Music is an inherently emotional medium capable of conveying more than mere words can. The right song can illuminate something a script or a performance can’t. But that kind of song is not what Jem is offering. Jem tunes like "Youngblood" and "Hit Me Up" are perfectly serviceable (and admittedly catchy) modern pop songs in the vein of Katy Perry or Sia. They work conceptually as a modern update of the cartoon’s glam-rock aesthetic, but to call them world-changing, or even envelope-pushing, is drastically overselling the material.
Josie’s millennial pop-punk songs, like "Three Small Words" and "Pretend to Be Nice," are similarly lightweight and of-the-moment, but the movie never suggests they’re anything more than rock-solid pop tunes that will appeal to a mass audience. Josie and her friends simply want to be rock stars, not become "the voice of a generation." That lack of self-importance makes it easier to invest in their quest.
Leading up to Jem’s release, one of the questions on fans’ minds was how the film would incorporate Synergy, the "ultimate audio-visual entertainment synthesizer," built by young Jerrica Benton’s father before he died. Synergy projects a hologram over Jerrica, allowing her to become Jem in the eyes of everyone else.
It’s an inherently ridiculous idea that could only be born of a ’80s cartoon conceived to sell toys and accessories to young girls, but it’s also an integral part of the property’s appeal and legacy. To have a Jem movie without Synergy would be blasphemy.

Obviously Synergy needed to be tweaked to fit into the context of a modern-day film, but the solution Jem lands on is mind-bogglingly off-base.
Synergy has become an EVE-like robot created by Jerrica’s father for some purpose unknown to her; it hasn’t worked since his death. Over the course of the film, Synergy is revealed to be the means to an elaborate treasure hunt Jerrica’s father concocted, wherein she must travel to sites around Los Angeles to find new pieces of the robot and learn trite lessons via inscriptions from her father. Once Synergy is completed, it does indeed project a hologram — of Jerrica’s father, telling her how special and unique and talented she is. (Poor Kimber (Stefanie Scott), Jerrica’s younger sister, is apparently not special enough to warrant such attention from her dead father.)
That’s it. That’s literally all Synergy does, besides beep-booping around the fringes of scenes and occasionally projecting a show not unlike those created by a children’s light projector. It’s a wild goose chase in robot form, and contributes nothing of value to the film. This approach has little to nothing to do with what Synergy was meant to be, which is basically a futuristic party machine. In trying to make Synergy "realistic," Jem takes an out-there concept that could have been interesting and unique and half-bakes it.
Josie, on the other hand, is a prime example of how committing to a ludicrous idea can be beneficial in the right context. By embracing its cartoonishness, Josie is able to have fun with a ridiculous concept like corporate brainwashing via pop music. It takes that idea way, way over the top, and even if it isn’t always 100 percent successful — it can get too silly for its own good — it’s at least memorable.
With apologies to Lewis, Jem is in dire need of a quirky character actor or two to mix up its cast of bland young Hollywood faces. Aubrey Peeples does serviceable work as Jerrica (and, it must be said, she's a pretty great onscreen crier), but she and the rest of Jem’s cast are all various flavors of vanilla, and the movie follows suit.

Jem and the Holograms (Aurora Perrineau, Stefanie Scott, Hayley Kiyoko), hanging out. (Universal Pictures)
Josie’s main triad of Cook, Dawson, and Reid isn’t exactly a dramatic powerhouse. But they fit the roles well, and Reid’s uber-ditzy performance as Melody stands out for its go-for-broke silliness. Josie’s real secret weapons are Alan Cumming and Parker Posey as the promoter and CEO, respectively, of the evil MegaRecords. Both are established, extremely talented character actors with significant comedic chops. Throw in meaty cameos from the likes of Eugene Levy, Seth Green, Donald Faison, and Breckin Meyer, and there’s more than enough comedic fuel to keep Josie burning bright and lively.
The most irritating moment in Jem is also its most symbolic. Ryan Guzman’s Rio is a character taken directly from the cartoon — he’s Jerrica’s longtime boyfriend and the Holograms’ road manager — but in this origin-story reimagining, he becomes the neutered son of Erica Raymond. Rio longs to return his mother’s music company to being about the music, man, rather than the corporate monolith it’s become under her regime.
This is an entirely new aspect of the Jem mythology; in the cartoon, Jem was the owner and manager of Starlight Enterprises from the jump. She’s been reduced to a lowly artist in this film. Given that this is a "modern reimagining" and origin story, that’s believable enough, but Jem’s script makes the head-scratching decision to turn Rio’s acquisition of Starlight Enterprises into the film’s big happy ending.
That’s right, Jem and the Holograms ends with Rio watching paternally as the band performs; he’s now their boss and Jerrica’s love interest. He’s even the one who names them the Holograms, a decision he makes without any input or agreement from the band itself. It’s a neat — but annoying — summation of a Jem movie that was directed, written, and produced entirely by men, without the involvement of Jem series creator Christy Marx (who expressed her displeasure with not being involved in the film, but ultimately gave it her blessing).
Jem is targeted squarely at girls and women. The fact that its film adaptation has been masterminded entirely by men — Chu, Landels, and producers Jason Blum and Scooter Braun (a.k.a. the man who brought us Justin Bieber) —  is more than a little disheartening. It’s impossible to say whether Jem would have been a better movie with a female creator, but it seems unlikely a woman would have ended the film with the bland male love interest becoming the hero and ruler supreme of Starlight Enterprises.
Josie and the Pussycats’ source material, conversely, was created by an all-male team — which might explain their customary leotard-and-kitty-ears costumes — but its film version was co-written and co-directed by a woman, Deborah Kaplan, alongside her creative partner Harry Elfont. (The two of them also made 1998’s Can’t Hardly Wait together.) While it would be a stretch to call Josie a female-empowerment narrative, it doesn’t do anything as ridiculous as turning its male love interest into the film’s hero. That's precisely the kind of thing that a female screenwriter or director would likely push back against, given the chance.
Unfortunately, Jem the movie never even gave a woman the chance to envision what a modern Jerrica/Jem could, and should, be in 2015. Instead, it turned the reins over to bunch of dudes who apparently knew little to nothing about the character, or her appeal, before Hasbro tapped them to bring the character back to life.
What fans got was a character — and a movie — that's DOA.
Reese Witherspoon is done being underestimated.
In an impassioned speech at Glamour's annual Women of the Year event Monday, Witherspoon accepted an award "for her work creating stronger roles for women in film." While most know the actress for her performances as Legally Blonde’s Elle Woods or Walk the Line’s June Carter (the latter of which earned her an Oscar), Witherspoon has been making moves of her own as co-founder of Pacific Standard Films, a production company devoted to finding and producing better roles for women.
Many of Pacific Standard Film's projects are adaptations of books Witherspoon and her partner Bruna Papandrea find compelling — which explains how they optioned their first two books before any other filmmakers realized they should. Gone Girl and Wild both garnered box office success, award nominations, and, maybe most importantly, industry respect.
"[Pacific Standard Films has] over 25 films in development and three television shows," Witherspoon said at the event, "and they all have female leads of different ages and different races and different jobs. Some are astronauts, some are soldiers, some are scientists; one is even a Supreme Court justice. They’re not just good or bad; they’re bold and hunted and dangerous and triumphant, like the real women we meet every single day of our lives."
Here are three more highlights from Witherspoon's speech (emphasis mine).
"I hope Amy Schumer and all the other nominees that when you consider making your biopic, you’ll give me the rights first, which would be great. Although, Amy, I’ll have to play your grandmother in the movie (by Hollywood standards), and you’ll probably have to play your own mother."
"I dread reading scripts that have no women involved in their creation because inevitably I get to that part where the girl turns to the guy, and she says, "What do we do now?!" Do you know any woman in any crisis situation who has absolutely no idea what to do? I mean, don’t they tell people in crisis, even children, "If you're in trouble, talk to a woman." It’s ridiculous that a woman wouldn’t know what to do.
"At the end of [a] meeting, I sort of casually brought up, "So, how many movies are in development with a female lead?" And by lead, I don’t mean wife of the lead or the girlfriend of the lead. The lead, the hero of the story. I was met with nothing, blank stares, excessive blinking, uncomfortable shifting. No one wanted to answer the question because the fact was the studios weren’t developing anything starring a woman. The only studio that was was turning a man’s role into a woman’s role. And the studio heads didn’t apologize. They don’t have to apologize. They are interested in profits—and after all, they run subsidiary companies of giant corporations.
...after going to these studios and telling people about how there’s barely any female leads in films and the industry’s in crisis, people were aghast. "That’s horrible," they said. And then they changed the subject and moved on with their dinner and moved on with their lives. But I could not change the subject. I couldn’t turn to some man and say, "What do we do now?" This is my life. I’ve made movies all my life, for 25 years, since I was 14 years old. It was time to turn to myself and say, "Okay, Reese, what are we going to do now?"
And so Witherspoon, who has been "wondering lately why female ambition is a trait that people are so afraid of," is blazing forward at full speed. Hopefully, Pacific Standard Films will keep finding and developing roles for women like the "passionate and strong and flawed" ones Witherspoon herself has played — "except," she added, her star-turning role as Election's fiercely ambitious high school presidential candidate Tracy Flick. "She’s 100 percent perfect," Witherspoon grinned, "but she made me say that."

Nathan for You thrives on loopholes. The faux-reality series on Comedy Central is the brainchild of comedian Nathan Fielder, who finds struggling entrepreneurs throughout the Los Angeles area and attempts to "help" them with his own terrible, terrible ideas.
He might advise an antique store owner to stay open 24 hours, so that drunk people can wander in and break things (thus having to buy them). Or he might set up an incredibly elaborate $1 TV sale, solely to try to take advantage of Best Buy's price-match guarantee.
The best Nathan for You sequences almost always involve the media in some way. In the show's first season, Fielder staged a petting zoo rescue that went viral. In the second season, Dumb Starbucks became an international news sensation.
But neither of those stunts is quite as insidious or hilarious as the one Fielder pulls in season three, when his plans to help a moving company briefly turn a bodybuilder into a local news morning show hero.
In an episode called "The Movement," Fielder's "brilliant" idea is to trick a bunch of people into moving stuff because they think they're getting a great workout, allowing the moving company he's working to collect a bunch of free labor.
It's an inherently ridiculous idea, so Fielder, as usual, decides to make it even more ridiculous and hires bodybuilder Jack Garbarino to pose as someone who's never visited a gym but lost more than 100 pounds simply by lifting boxes and furniture. To aid in this task, Fielder has a ghostwriter come up with a self-evidently ridiculous biography for Garbarino, then sends it to a bunch of local news stations.
And the shows have Garbarino on! They ask him straightforward questions about his childhood friendship with Steve Jobs and his charity work helping "jungle kids" — both complete fabrications from the fake biography. They take part in his demonstrations of lifting pieces of furniture and boxes. It's clear that what he's doing is a hoax, but nobody calls him on it. (You can watch things spiral out of control starting at about 6:30 in the clip above. If you watch the whole thing, you'll see the entire wacky story.)
To a degree, Fielder's other trolls of the media made sense when the media fell for them. The petting zoo rescue story was based on a fairly impressive video of a hero pig saving a baby goat. There really was a storefront for Dumb Starbucks in Los Angeles. Sure, a little digging might have exposed the truth, but the surface seemed fairly believable at first blush.
There's really nothing of the sort going on with Garbarino. Everything about the guy seems fishy, but he's got an inspiring personal story. So everybody goes along with it, playing right into Fielder's hands and sharpening the show's occasional critiques of a media that won't do even the most basic of fact checks.
On Nathan for You, Fielder's main target is gullibility. The series, conceived in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, examines just how little people want to push back against truly bad ideas — even if those ideas might sink their business — provided they're voiced by an "expert."
As Fielder told the Los Angeles Times:
I was really obsessed when the mortgage crisis happened and how it came down to these personal moments between people where someone senses something's wrong, but they don't want to speak up. ... For Nathan on the show, ethics are not on my radar as much. Risk and effort don't seem to register, and it's inspired by that modern Wall Street mindset of finding loopholes.
And that's the point of the show: When something sounds good or comes from a self-proclaimed expert, we want to believe in it. Fielder gets away with so much because he presents himself as someone who knows what he's doing, even though his ideas are completely nuts. The people around him don't call him on it, because they, like everybody else, want to believe.
That makes for great comedy, but it also makes for sneaky social commentary. Things can only get so bad if we let them, but so long as they're sold with a confident smile and filled with good intentions, we're happy to ride along on the road to hell.
On November 6, Spectre, the 24th movie in the James Bond franchise and the fourth starring Daniel Craig, was loosed upon the world. Despite an opening sequence that Vox contributor Peter Suderman calls the "single greatest shot in Bond film history," it's kind of a dud, a disappointing step back from the past three installments and a throwback in all the wrong ways to the days of Bonds past.
Even more damning, it mostly called to mind another, much more fun recent blockbuster: this summer's Mission: Impossible — Rogue Nation. The fifth film in the Tom Cruise–starring series, Rogue Nation became the highest-grossing M:I movie worldwide, with its Rotten Tomatoes score currently sitting at 92 percent versus Spectre's 63. It managed to double down on its best elements while ditching the things that hampered the series in the past, resulting in something that feels of a piece with the previous films but also impressively fresh and exciting for a fourth sequel, showing actual progress rather than just sticking to the same formula.
Perhaps it's not unexpected that the Bond franchise is feeling a bit long in the tooth; if James Bond were born the same year his character was created, he'd be 62. And with Craig publicly expressing his desire to be rid of the character, additional Bond films are a bit up in the air. Still, for hypothetical future Bond films, here are five lessons their writers and directors could learn from Mission: Impossible.
Paramount
It's a common refrain: Movies These Days are just too long. As Star Wars: The Force Awakens screenwriter Lawrence Kasdan said to Hitfix earlier this year, "A lot of very entertaining movies lately are too long. In the last 20 minutes, you think, why isn’t this over?" Spectre is a prime example. It clocks in at 150 minutes, and was produced with a reported $300 million budget; the latest Mission Impossible, for comparison, ran 131 minutes, with a budget of $150 million — literally half as much.
The run times seem to be part of a trend. Spectre is the longest Bond movie ever made; the Guardian notes, "Generally, the Bond films have got longer over time, with 1962’s series opener Dr No running just 105 minutes and few of the early Sean Connery efforts breaking two hours." By contrast, the original Mission: Impossible, which came out in 1996, ran 110 minutes, and 2011's Ghost Protocol, the longest film in the Mission: Impossible franchise, was 133 minutes.
Thanks to the 2014 Sony hacks, we have a good idea of why Spectre was one of the most expensive movies ever made: because, as Gawker put it, "the script — which leaked in full alongside copious, desperate notes to improve it — features a messy third act that executives are still trying to rework after months of tweaking."
As one Sony exec said of the film, "We need to cut 20 pages and this whole set piece could go." Which set piece the email refers to is unclear, but there's an easy place to start cutting: the silly and unnecessary attempt to give Bond an origin story (what the Atlantic's Sophie Gilbert presciently referred to as "the Batmanization of Bond movies"). Bond creator Ian Fleming famously said his character should be an "anonymous, blunt instrument" — so Spectre's attempt to flesh out the details of Bond's troubled childhood seems both counter to the nature of the character and rather unnecessary. (The fact that he kills people for a living is kind of a tip-off that he wasn't exactly leaving it to Beaver.) M:I thankfully never tried to explain how Ethan Hunt ended up the kind of guy who likes to hang off the sides of planes for a living; he just does it, we accept it, the movie goes on. Which brings me to my next point:
Here's a premise: Shadowy organization attempts to sow global chaos, and a maverick agent with near-superhuman abilities must take down said organization with a small band of intrepid friends after being abandoned by his agency. This is the basic plot of Spectre — and of Rogue Nation.
But where the latter film treats its shadowy organization almost as a MacGuffin, knowing that audiences are really paying to see Tom Cruise pull off increasingly insane stunts, Spectre leans the other way, retconning recent Bond movies in order to tie them all to one ill-defined villain. It’s clumsy and convoluted, and doesn't add all that much to the story.
Plus, Spectre misses an opportunity for actual moral complexity: There’s a fascinating kernel in the Nine Eyes idea of how spycraft is changing as technology continues to advance, and the bad guys could be compelling if they genuinely believed they were working toward keeping the world safe. In a post-9/11, post-Snowden world, there's real tension there — but what we get in Spectre is a faded copy of Sherlock's Moriarty and a supervillain whose motivation boils down to "my daddy didn't love me enough." Any shades of gray go right out the window.
Much has been made of the trio of women gracing Spectre with their onscreen presence, especially Monica Bellucci, who, at 50 years old to Craig’s 47, is the "oldest Bond girl" in the 53 years Hollywood has been making Bond movies. Setting aside the ridiculousness of still referring to her as a "Bond girl," this seemed like an exciting moment for the franchise. Bond with a mature woman! Maybe he (and the movies) was finally growing up.
Alas, that’s not the case: Bellucci’s role in Spectre amounts to little more than a cameo, and naturally she is in her underwear for part of it. With Judi Dench’s M dead (replaced by the very male Ralph Fiennes), Naomie Harris’s Moneypenny out of the field, and a new "lesbian bad lady" character axed from the film entirely, the lion’s share of Spectre's female presence falls to Léa Seydoux’s Madeleine Swann.
At first a promising character, Swann rebuffs Bond's advances and even gets to do some ass-kicking of her own. But far too soon she's inexplicably professing her love for him, and the rest of the movie has her playing damsel in distress — in heels, of course — as Bond saves the day yet again.
Contrast this with Rogue Nation, in which Hunt finds himself up against a gorgeous female agent with questionable allegiances — and they somehow manage to restrain themselves from sleeping together for the entire movie. Rebecca Ferguson's Ilsa Faust not only had her own totally separate motivations and purpose, she was also given entire scenes where she got to take down bad guys with Hunt nowhere in sight.
Their relationship still hums with tension, both dramatic and perhaps even sexual, but Rogue Nation acknowledges the impossibility of their relationship, and they get to part as respected equals rather than lust-stricken teenagers. It's a canny, admirable twist on the usual that makes Mission: Impossible feel like it fully exists in the present — and, by comparison, makes Bond look hopelessly stuck in the past. Perhaps Bond isn't Bond if he doesn't bed at least one woman onscreen, but if the gadgets and the suit cuts can keep up with the times, surely the gender politics can progress a bit as well.
I’m not saying I want everything to be all doom and gloom all the time. But do we really care to see James Bond riding off into the sunset with his lady love? Bond films are too reliable as cash cows for studios to stop churning out a new one every few years, so it feels disingenuous at best and like a total waste of time at worst to pretend Bond is going to get the happily ever after he's never much hinted he wants. Plus, we’ve already seen him fall in love: It was in 2006, with Vesper Lynd, who, thanks to her charisma and a characterization beyond "dishy young thing," made for a way more complex and poignant story (and, as Quartz argues, doomed her from the start).
Spectre director Sam Mendes should have taken a lesson from J.J. Abrams’s Mission: Impossible III, which is widely regarded as one of the weakest of the M:I films. It sees Cruise’s Ethan settled down with his fiancée (Michelle Monaghan) and living a "normal" life. Of course, we know this apparent bliss is short-lived — but why bother with it at all? By the next installment, the series wisely does away with Ethan’s domestic drama, shipping Monaghan to a desert island (so to speak) and almost completely erasing her existence from the rest of the franchise.
So let's say future movies ditch the Bond-in-love conceit and smartly refocus him on the adrenaline-spiking spycraft he loves so well. Why not let him have a little fun with it? The feats Bond performs are, after all, a bit ridiculous — but that's part of what keeps people flocking to theaters.
The rare flashes of intentional humor in Spectre (and no, I’m not counting the sexy octopus opening credits) go way further in humanizing Bond than any scene of seduction ever could.
Rogue Nation recognized the need for some comic relief, adding the reliably hilarious Simon Pegg to the cast and even allowing its infallible hero a pratfall or two.
Without this sort of occasional wink at the audience, it's easy for the utterly slick Bond movies to slip right past the mark and into unintentional self-parody.
Spectre's stunning opening sequence proves there's still plenty of stylish fun to be had with the James Bond franchise. Taking a few cues from Mission: Impossible's continued success could make it better than ever.
Gloria Steinem's new book My Life on the Road came out this week, and readers only had to get through one page to gain sharper insight into the activist's storied life.
The dedication in My Life on the Road is made out to Dr. John Sharpe, a British doctor who referred Steinem for an illegal abortion in 1957, when she was 22 years old. Steinem has discussed her abortion before, though not until her mid-30s. She recently went into more detail for NPR, detailing how desperate she was to get the abortion so she wouldn't have to settle into "a life that wasn't [hers]."
But she had never revealed the doctor's name before now, at his request:

The dedication in Gloria Steinham’s new book. Read it. pic.twitter.com/NPsClSSABV


Some people are surprised. Some, less so. But there has been a groundswell recently to destigmatize abortions (particularly via the #ShoutYourAbortion Twitter movement), and Steinem's declaration that she got an abortion — and that it changed her life for the better — is one of the most straightforward, personal, and deeply heartfelt examples we've seen yet.
The power of the nostalgia machine just might be real: The dearly departed WB series Gilmore Girls is heavily rumored to be getting ready to ride again — and this time, it will be streaming.
While Netflix is not commenting yet, TV Line reports that Netflix has made a deal with Warner Bros to bring the series back for four 90-minute episodes, or, essentially, four movies. According to Michael Ausiello, the revival will take place over one year, with each episode following Lorelei, Rory, and their motormouthed friends through a different season. (We hear Stars Hollow is lovely in the autumn.)
TV Line further reports that "all the major stars" are set to return, specifically Lauren Graham (Lorelai), Alexis Bledel (Rory), Scott Patterson (Luke), and Kelly Bishop (Emily). (Edward Herrmann, who played Richard, died in December 2014.) There is no word yet on Keiko Agena (Lane), Liza Weil (Paris, now on How to Get Away with Murder), or Melissa McCarthy (Sookie, now on everything).
A Gilmore Girls revival might give the series a chance to redo its ending, which many found disappointing. Creator Amy Sherman-Palladino and her writer-director husband Daniel Palladino had left the series in 2006, citing contract disputes with Warner Brothers, the studio that produced the series (and aired it on its subsidiary network The WB for six of its seven seasons).
The seventh and final season subsequently went on without them, and the ending Sherman-Palladino had apparently always envisioned never came to be. (You should only ask a Gilmore Girls fanatic what he or she thinks "those last four words" are if you're ready to lose hours of your life.)
Fans slammed the final season for feeling out of character, and even Graham admitted that she missed Sherman-Palladino's touch: "I wish she had been more involved this year, because I was playing a piece of her that is so specifically her. I missed her writing," she told TV Guide.
Since the series went off the air in 2007, there have been petitions dedicated to getting more episodes, a popular podcast chronicling every episode, and even a packed reunion event at this year's Television Festival in Austin, where Sherman-Palladino dropped sly hints about future possibilities.

So commissioning more stories for the Gilmores would be a smart move for Netflix, which relies on harnessing the fervent passion of internet fandom into dedicated viewers. (See also: Fuller House, a Full House sequel series starring a widowed D.J. and her sons, and no, I did not make it up for a punchline.)
Updated to reflect new reports saying each episode will be a season of the year.
On Monday afternoon, the hashtag #BoycottStarWarsVII shot to the top of Twitter's trending topics. Since we're in the midst of a huge promotional push for Star Wars VII: The Force Awakens, it's not surprising that J.J. Abrams's upcoming film is one of the most talked-about things on social media right now, but the context of #BoycottStarWarsVII is much uglier than, say, trying to avoid the most concentrated, mercenary marketing push imaginable.
It's racism, plain and simple.
Specifically, the #BoycottStarWarsVII "movement" (and I'm skeptical of calling it that, for reasons I'll get into shortly) takes umbrage with the fact that The Force Awakens' cast features not one, but multiple people of color, a situation a small but vocal minority sees as evidence of a "white genocide" in the Star Wars universe, perpetuated by Abrams, a white-hating Hollywood Jew. Yes, it's ridiculous and disgusting on many, many levels.
Here's the thing, though: Click over to the #BoycottStarWarsVII hashtag, and you'll see roughly 95 percent of those using it are talking about how ridiculous and disgusting the hashtag is, or retweet-shaming actual racist tweets. As of this writing, I had to scroll through 20-plus anti-#BoycottStarWarsVII tweets to find one that was actually in support of the movement.
That's not to say there aren't people out there using Twitter to spread a message of hate. But the fact that they're such a small fringe compared with the number decrying their message speaks to the unique way Twitter trends can amplify a niche message and create controversy out of whole cloth.
Scroll to the very bottom of #BoycottStarWarsVII, before the onslaught of "What the hell is this #BoycottStarWarsVII thing all about" tweets began, and it becomes apparent where this all started: with a handful — as in, fewer than a dozen — of people creating their own echo chamber of racial discontent. (I've compiled several of the most horrifying in this Storify if you're curious. Be warned: It's ugly.)
The seeds of discontent were sown Sunday night by user @DarklyEnlighten ("Lord Humungus"), and quickly found flower in the timeline of user @genophilia ("End Cultural Marxism"). These two users are responsible for the vast majority of early #BoycottStarWarsVII tweets. Both explicitly express the desire to get the hashtag trending. Overnight, a few others took up the cause (@officialCritDis, "Critical Spooking," being another major amplifier).
That handful of tweeters was just enough that by morning, #BoycotStarWarsVII had begun trending. @genophilia was pleased.
Yes, #BoycottStarWarsVII is now trending @genophilia

Once #BoycottStarWarsVII hit Twitter's trending topics, it was hugely amplified, with new tweets pouring in by the hundreds every few minutes. And while some of the tweets responding to the hashtag support its original intent, the vast majority of respondents were expressing disbelief at its existence. Once the feminist website the Mary Sue picked up the story, anger and mockery followed.
To be clear, mockery and anger are understandable and reasonable responses in this situation. Ideas like the ones that gave rise to #BoycottStarWarsVII deserve considerable pushback.
But the great irony of social media is that pushing against this type of thing only gives it greater amplification and alerts more people to its existence. For every 100 people who see #BoycottStarWarsVII as a garbage fire, there might be one who somehow finds value in it and spreads the message further.
Amplification by those who disagreed with the hashtag's aims was exactly what users like @DarklyEnlighten and @genophilia were banking on when they started flooding their timelines last night. Being as shocking and provocative as possible prompts responses, and that sort of engagement piques Twitter's algorithm's interest, giving rise to a "trending topic," regardless of the topic at hand.
People like @DarklyEnlighten and @genophilia take great glee in angering "social justice warriors," using the anger they provoke to advance their own causes/victim complexes — and, most of all, to amuse themselves. @DarklyEnlighten, @genophilia, and their ilk weren't really aiming to start a movement with this hashtag. They were trolling, plain and simple, and it worked.

This morning handful of alt-right people started the #BoycottStarWarsVII hashtag. By midday the SJWs are going apeshit. #winning


And, yes, I realize that by shining a light on this nonsense, I'm contributing to the very amplification I'm talking about here. But #BoycottStarWarsVII has already reached the visibility tipping point, and has thus become something more valuable than it ever was as a quote-unquote movement: It's a cautionary tale of what internet trolls are capable of when we don't recognize them for what they are.
The saying "don't feed the trolls" was coined roughly five minutes after the internet was invented, but there's a reason it continues to come up, time and again. Twitter trends are just another source of sustenance for trolls and hate groups. All #BoycottStarWarsVII has truly accomplished is giving them a nice, hearty meal. Rather than heaping more scorn on their plates, consider reporting them to Twitter, blocking them, or forgetting they ever existed.
Midway through director Steven Spielberg’s new historical thriller Bridge of Spies, there’s a scene in which the movie’s protagonist, lawyer James Donovan (Tom Hanks), explains to his young son why he’s chosen to defend a Soviet spy in American court.
Donovan’s decision to not only take the case but vigorously pursue the spy’s defense has caused him to face intense criticism from his community, and his family are among those who can’t seem to understand why he did it; even his wife has questioned why he’s so committed to the case. But Donovan explains to his son that in America, everyone deserves a fair hearing, one that follows the essential rules laid out in the Constitution.
What’s important to understand about the scene is that Donovan is not just explaining himself to his son. He’s explaining himself to the audience — justifying his actions to viewers who might themselves be skeptical.
No relationship is more important to Spielberg the relationship between parents and their children — specifically, the relationship between fathers and their sons. In some form or another, that relationship is at the core of nearly all of Spielberg’s films.
The gulf between parents and their children helps explain Spielberg’s relationship with his audience, too. In his early years, Spielberg tended to present his stories from a child’s vantage point — full of awe and excitement and terror at the unknown. But over time, he's shifted his perspective to that of the protective parent whose biggest fear is seeing his children harmed.
The most common way to divide up Spielberg’s movies is between his populist fantasy adventures — everything from E.T. and Raiders of the Lost Ark to Jurassic Park and War of the World­­s — and his more serious historical dramas—movies like Schindler’s List, Saving Private Ryan, Munich, and Lincoln.
But that division between big, fun blockbusters and more serious work misses the shift in sensibility that’s occurred over the years.
Spielberg’s early work, from Jaws to Close Encounters of the Third Kind to the Indiana Jones films, was characterized by a childlike naiveté about the world. His early films worked, and still work, in large part because they capture that sense of incredible possibility — of mysterious alien encounters, monstrous sharks, mystical relics, or some other yet-to-be-discovered wonder.
Even when their main characters were fathers, Spielberg’s early movies tended to maintain a child’s perspective, focusing on what the audience didn’t know rather than what they did. A big part of what makes both Jaws and Close Encounters so effective is how little Spielberg shows us throughout the films: The shark and the aliens, respectively, are suggested but barely seen until the final minutes, leaving viewers to fill in the gaps with their imaginations — essentially forcing them to act like little kids dreaming up killer sea monsters and invaders from outer space.
The same goes for Raiders, which doesn’t reveal the spectral power of its MacGuffin, the Ark of the Covenant, until the finale, leaving viewers to wonder (and worry) about what apocalyptic dangers it might hold. Even then, the movie pushed viewers to concentrate on fear of the unseen, as Indy and Marion both experience the Ark’s horrific power with their eyes closed.
That childlike sense of possibility infused Spielberg's early films with a deep sense of awe and wonder, one that’s gone largely unmatched in decades sense.
That approach also made his movies tense and, at times, almost irrationally terrifying: No special effect is as scary as the possibilities dredged up by an overactive imagination. Spielberg’s early films perfectly captured the fear of a child — the fear of a mysterious world that is too big, and too unknowable, to truly understand.
As his career progressed into the 1980s, Spielberg began to take on more serious projects — movies like The Color Purple and Empire of the Sun. Based on Alice Walker’s acclaimed novel, The Color Purple traced the hardships of a young black woman in early 1900s America, starting with a childhood in which she is repeatedly beaten and raped by the older man she’s forced to marry. Empire of the Sun offers a kind of inverse tale of a wealthy British boy who ends up in a Japanese internment camp during World War II.
Both are coming-of-age stories about the hardships adults inflict on children, and both stick with what is essentially a child’s viewpoint, telling stories of young people struggling to make their way in a difficult and often terrifying world.
By the end of the 1980s, though, that started the change. The 1989 movie Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade introduced Indy's father, Dr. Henry Jones (Sean Connery), and Spielberg focused on the tug of war between their two personalities. Two years later, he made Hook, a revisionist take on J.M. Barrie’s story about an adult Peter Pan living a conventional middle-class life with a wife and kids who returns to Neverland and learns to use his imagination — and, finally, to be a better father to his son. You can practically see Spielberg, now mid-career with several children of his own, wrestling with the transition to adult- and parenthood.
By the time Jurassic Park hit theaters in 1993, the transition was complete. Although the film looks like another populist adventure with rousing action set pieces, there are distinct differences. For one thing, Spielberg, empowered by a sizable budget and advances in digital effects, shows the dinosaurs comparatively early and often. The movie draws its terror less from fear of what unknown monster might be out there and more from very specific fears about scientific innovation's capacity for violence and destruction.
In particular, Jurassic Park plays up the audience’s fears about threats to the movie’s two child characters, Lex and Tim. Much of the tension in the film’s second half comes from the near-constant threat to their lives and attempts by adults to rescue them. Spielberg’s perspective is now a parent’s perspective, fearful of all the real-world horrors that could befall his children. It’s a perspective he invites the audience to adopt as well.
At the same time, Spielberg’s movies developed an increasingly noticeable protective streak of their own. Think of the present-day coda to Saving Private Ryan, which offers an off-key sentimental reassurance to the audience following two and a half hours of unspeakable brutality and inhumanity. Or the final moments of War of the Worlds, in which the lost son — whose exit and presumed death midway through drives the film's emotional journey — is safe and sound in a nice, middle-class home. Or the end of Minority Report, in which the film’s Washington, DC, pre-crime program is safely dismantled and life returns to a placid, lakeside calm. (It’s long been rumored that the screenplay originally concluded with a bleak postscript noting that there were 116 murders in DC the following year, but the line was cut.)
Parent Spielberg has made some powerful films with searing images — but in the end, he just can’t let his movies leave any real scars. Everything always turns out okay. In this way, Spielberg isn’t just providing his audience with a parental perspective — he's acting as a parent to the audience, protecting them from any lasting scars his movies might otherwise inflict.
Of course, whether in child or parent mode, Spielberg doesn’t the write the scripts to most of his films. But as director, he’s the author of his films, and as one of Hollywood’s most commercially successful artists, he has considerable power to reshape the projects he takes on. Indeed, it’s clear from this 1999 New York Times Magazine profile that Spielberg is, above all, a fantastic idea generator whose influence in terms of story, style, and tone reaches well beyond the movies he makes himself.
Bridge of Spies is clearly the work of Spielberg the parent, the popular-history buff who loves Cold War intrigue and spy movies. (This is a director who spent years angling for a job directing a James Bond movie before directing Raiders of the Lost Ark instead.) The movie tells the story of James B. Donovan, an insurance lawyer who agrees to defend Communist spy Rudolf Abel (Mark Rylance) in American court — and then, in the film’s second half, negotiates a complex, three-way prisoner exchange with two separate Communist factions as the Berlin Wall is being constructed around them.
The film's leading man isn’t just a father to his own children, he’s also a father figure to numerous other characters in the movie, from the enthusiastic young lawyer who assists him in his work to the two young men whose release he works to secure. Donovan speaks of the necessity of securing the world for future generations; he’s not just an everyman, he’s an everydad.
Thanks to a smartly crafted screenplay, co-written by Matt Charman and the Coen brothers, Bridge of Spies feels less overtly sentimental than some of Spielberg’s previous work. Like his last film, Lincoln, it is essentially the story of a tense, exceedingly complicated negotiation conducted by a man who is both ordinary and extraordinary — a hero of common decency.
What makes the movie so remarkable, though, is how deftly Spielberg handles the visuals and the action.
On a purely technical level, Spielberg may be the best cinematic craftsman working today: Every shot is as gorgeous as a painting, every edit carefully chosen and designed to provide perfect clarity. No one is better at succinctly delivering visual information than Spielberg, and no one has his gift for infusing historical dioramas with dramatic intensity.
Spielberg packs his films with telling visual symmetries. Bridge of Spies features haunting parallel shots of Donovan looking out the window while riding a train — first across the deadly no-man’s land that separates Germany’s East and West, and then, later, through a New York neighborhood as children climb freely over backyard fences.
His knack for arresting set pieces, meanwhile, is on display even in this relatively small-scale film: The movie opens with a masterfully constructed, nearly wordless chase as American agents hunt Abel through the streets of New York, and there’s a gripping mid-film sequence in which an American spy plane is shot down in foreign airspace. Spielberg constructs these extraordinarily complex, yet always perfectly clear, sequences with skill almost no other working filmmaker can match.
This sort of visual sophistication is the biggest reason that Spielberg has long been so successful, and that so many of his movies have become beloved over time. As a storyteller, he sometimes treats his audience like children. But as a filmmaker, he always treats us like adults.
The Walking Dead is a curious thing, storytelling-wise.
On a macro level, the show's stories are endlessly repetitive and predictable. They almost never vary from the same basic arc: The characters find a new safe haven. Gradually, they realize not all is as it seems. Conflict builds between human beings, before everything falls to ruin. Zombies rush in and eat at least a few characters. Rinse. Repeat.
Thus, the frequent complaints that the show doesn't know how to tell stories are sort of accurate. It's not like the series has the kind of sparkling dialogue or deep character work that might make this bearable, and its themes, such as they are, tend to circle a few of the same general tropes and ideas.
And yet The Walking Dead is also one of TV's most adventurous shows when it comes to storytelling, especially since current showrunner Scott Gimple took over in season four. Now episodes could be about any combination of characters. Their structures could leap between past and present, as the season premiere did. Or they could simply refuse to resolve a cliffhanger for as long as possible, spending time on other matters, as tonight's did.
In short, The Walking Dead is at once endlessly inventive and incredibly exasperating. But this latest episode, "JSS," offered some hope that the series may have broken out of its patterns.
Even though the Wolves (those ultraviolent invaders with the W's etched on their foreheads) attacked the Alexandria compound around the episode's midpoint (causing all the commotion that led to the premiere's cliffhanger), the Alexandrians mostly held off the threat, and the walls still stood.
Along the way, Carol stabbed a bunch of people in the brain, Nurse Jackie all-star Merritt Wever joined the cast as the "town doctor" (or the closest thing Alexandria could find), and Morgan learned a valuable lesson about doing unto others (namely, you should probably just kill them if they're trying to kill you). It was exciting and action-packed, but it didn't end with everything falling apart.
Fans are clearly divided about whether Alexandria represents a good thing for the series, but Gimple and company seem determined to stick to it for at least the short term. If you listen to this discussion with AMC head Joel Stillerman, he mentions that Gimple has shifted from the days when the show was about humans versus zombies, then humans versus other humans. Now, he says, it's about building a civilization, and that's a natural next step for the show.
Will it work? Tough to say, but I'm relieved we don't have to follow this episode with one where the characters wander the wilderness at length, waiting for salvation to arrive and never finding it.
I'm sure it will come up again next week or some other time, but last week's episode ended with a giant crush of zombies headed for the walls of Alexandria, and this week's episode mostly seemed to forget about them, outside of a few stray walkers here and there.
The Walking Dead has always suffered from the fact that its writers just sort of wave their hands and declare that things are a certain way, whether that's having a character behave in a way that seems contradictory to his previous self, or simply rigging the game in favor of (or against) our heroes. It's the latter that happens here, as that horde seemingly disappears.
Now, that's welcome in some ways. In previous seasons, they would have been the "one thing too many" that caused Alexandria to crumble into ruin. But it's still a sign of the show coming up with a cool idea for a cliffhanger, and then mostly forgetting about it.
I have essentially no idea why "JSS" turned over its opening scenes to a lengthy depiction of Enid making her way through the early days of the zombie apocalypse to arrive at Alexandria's doorstep, but it was easily the best part of the episode, an arresting glimpse into a character we know barely anything about. It was like a Lost flashback in miniature, complete with interesting stylistic and filmmaking choices.
In particular, I loved the way the sequence built up to a point of extreme, graphic violence, then immediately cut from it to the violence's aftermath. Enid watches zombies dine on her parents, then later kills a turtle so she'll have something to eat. She comes upon a zombie hanging out of a car she wants to weather a rainstorm in, and we cut to her sitting out the rain.
At all times, the gore is elided, in favor of the ultimate result of that gore. It nicely underlines the rest of the episode, which suggests that in this world, violence is often necessary if you want to create a world where safety and security actually exist. It's one of the essential paradoxes of building a society, and it's fun to watch the show tease it out.
Plus, it helps with character development, a frequent problem for the show. As we watch Enid dig deep to "just survive somehow" (the letters that give the episode its title), she slowly but surely becomes something more than "that girl Carl might have a crush on."
It's yet another sign of the show's writers loosening up and having fun with the storytelling. The show introduces lots of characters, and has the bad habit of mostly making them zombie chow. By utilizing this technique, it might be able to make Enid's inevitable death sting a bit more.
I will never, ever complain about getting to watch Carol kick some ass, as that's the best part of the show. Nor will I complain about watching Lennie James swing that bo staff around hypnotically. Violence and the questions of its necessity are a core part of the DNA of this series and always will be.
But if it really does want to shift into a "building society" story, then it's going to need to learn to tell stories not about killing, and on that score, it's more of a mixed bag. Remember how last season involved all of those stories about Rick slowly cracking up when exposed to Alexandria's small-town politics, before brutally murdering a man in the street? Yeah, if this show is going to get us to invest in Alexandria, then it needs to make that place somewhere worth saving, which it hasn't really managed to do thus far.
You can sort of feel the writers trying. Wever, for instance, gets the episode's B-plot, which is basically an old ER B-plot exhumed and trotted out for all of us to see. It's a good way to let us get to know her character, Denise, sure, but as medical drama, it left lots to be desired. The show doesn't need to turn into post-apocalyptic Scrubs or anything, but it does need to find gears other than "violence is soul-deadening but sometimes necessary" if it wants to make this particular leap.
The show has lacked for good villains since the heyday of the Governor. The people in the hospital of evil back in season five didn't make much sense, and the Terminus cannibals were barely even characters. The show has had some success making the regular characters their own worst enemies, but when push comes to shove, we know the show isn't going to make Rick its Big Bad (though that would be kinda cool).
So the Wolves maybe don't have the personality of the Governor, but they definitely have some thematic weight behind them that makes them potentially good bad guys for what the show is trying to do right now. If we're talking about the formation of a society, then there need to be barbarian hordes out there, along with the zombies, and lo and behold, the Wolves fit that description quite well.
When Morgan kills one of the Wolves near the episode's end, it has some punch to it, not just because it's Morgan violating his code of not killing other human beings, nor because it really did seem like he might die there for a second or two. No, it has punch to it because it feels like, for a moment, all of the promise of this new society being done in by the shedding of blood. Yes, it's the only way to stop the Wolves for the time being. But it's also a sign of how far these people are from having anything like civilization.
As always, you can ask me about Walking Dead or any other topics of interest. And also as always, I have a question for you to answer: What's your zombie apocalypse survival plan? C'mon. I know you have one. I certainly do.
The Leftovers puts its characters through the wringer every week, following their heartbreak, frustration, worry, and grief in searing detail.
Portraying these emotions, still-beating and raw, requires mammoth strength from the series' actors — made even harder when they couldn’t speak, as happened with Amy Brenneman, who portrays Laurie Garvey. Last season, Laurie was a member of a silent cult called the Guilty Remnant, who believe the world ended with the Departure (the disappearance of 2 percent of the world's population that is at the center of the series), and that anyone who suggests otherwise needs to face facts. People left their families to live in the Guilty Remnant’s silent house, chain smoke, and become living reminders of the world’s loss.
Laurie abandoned her own family and therapy practice a year and a half after the Departure to join the Guilty Remnant. Last season, she didn’t speak a single word until the season finale, when she gasped the name of her daughter with guttural pain, prompting her ex-husband to save their child from the Guilty Remnant’s burning building.
This season, Laurie has not only left the Guilty Remnant but is actively working to take it down with the help of a tell-all book and her son. She's ditched her white linens and swapped her constantly lit cigarette for a goldfish bowl of Nicorette. But leaving the Remnant hasn’t solved all her problems, nor erased the pain that made her join in the first place.
I caught Brenneman on the phone to discuss how it feels to speak on the show, Laurie’s relationship with her kids, and the startling lengths Laurie will go to to bring down the Guilty Remnant (or "the GR," as Brenneman calls it). We talked about all of the biggest moments and themes of the latest episode.
This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity, and contains spoilers for the October 18 episode of The Leftovers.

Laurie (Amy Brenneman) gets to work. (HBO)
Amy Brenneman: I feel like I went on the whole ride last year with the relief of not speaking, and then, the frustration. It’s such a complex show, and I’m such a complex character, that it’s like, "Oh, finally I get words."
It’s really much easier to communicate when you speak! It’s wonderful to have the opportunity to put words to all sorts of things that I couldn’t last year.
Amy Brenneman: I think what’s really delicious about that whole thing is that in episode two, we see the scene from inside the diner. I’m obviously a presence, because of the letter, but I’m not physically there. Then you get to see the same moment from my point of view. I’m crazy for Rashomon storytelling. [Rashomon is a famous Japanese film that tells the same story from several points of view. — ed.]
There’s real longing there. It’s not that I need to make Laurie unnecessarily likable. But certainly for me, it’s been a very familiar thing to tap into that longing for connection with your kids.
Amy Brenneman: Tom and Laurie are partners in crime. We’re Bonnie and Clyde. There’s a piece of her that’s like a stage mom, because he’s such a compelling person, and he and Laurie are after the same thing, which is to break up the cult. I think in a genuine way, more than once, it’s like, "I gotta pull you out." He’s a pretty fragile person.
"There's a piece of her that's like a stage mom"
I think that Tom and Laurie were really the speakers even before the Departure. Laurie, because of her profession [as a therapist], was always interested in looking for context, looking for meaning, and Tom got that from her. They'd look at [Jiddu] Krishnamurti, they probably discovered [Allen] Ginsberg together, and all that stuff.
I think that Jill and Kevin just want a calm household, you know? So that push-pull, which you kind of get in the flashback episode from last year, that was between Laurie and Kevin for a long time.
Amy Brenneman: It’s like someone who breaks up with a bad relationship, but all they can do is talk about that relationship and how bad it was. The center of her life is still the Guilty Remnant, but it’s just like, "Now I hate them."
Laurie was led down the garden path by these guys. They’re not who they say they are. They’re going to use you for cannon fodder. In that way, it’s sort of a 12-step thing, because Laurie is not outside of it. She’s doing it herself, as well.
"The center of her life is still the Guilty Remnant, but it's just like, 'Now I hate them!'"
But I think [running over the Guilty Remnant] is a little more nuanced. She’s really trying to wake these guys up, even by physically threatening them. It’s like Joe Pesci in Goodfellas: "I’m about to strangle you, just say uncle!" She wants them to wake up and go, "What are we doing?" But they don’t get out of the way. They’re kamikazes. They’ll die before they’ll say uncle. That’s when Laurie realizes what she’s up against.
Amy Brenneman: What I love about The Leftovers it’s sort of these recognizable moments on acid. It’s like, "I understand that," but times a million.
Damon [Lindelof]’s so brilliant, because [the publisher's] words in this moment are like The Sound and the Fury. For most of us who have this experience, you get some devastating news, some word that a loved one is ill, of a terrible diagnosis, and you have to go and act civil and keep it together.
"There's this violent universe that The Leftovers inhabits where people just go fucking feral"
For the purposes of this story, there is that scene where it seems to work: [The Guilty Remnant member] and her husband are going to reconnect. If that had gone well, and Laurie had gone in to the publisher and he had said inane things like, "Put yourself in there," I think she would have said, "I’ll try."
But Laurie’s doubting herself to a profound degree. She is somewhat, if not entirely, responsible for this woman’s death — and her entire family’s death. If she had stayed in the GR, the family would have stayed apart, but most likely, they would have been living. It’s just her doubting herself at every conceivable moment.
Amy Brenneman: That speech in the car, that dialogue [Laurie and Tom] have in the car after she’s all broken and busted out of jail … I think that that is at the root of so many religious and spiritual practices.

Laurie still believes in the power of therapy. (HBO)
Anyone who’s going to join the Guilty Remnant has a big hole that they need to fill. For whatever reason, good or bad, the structure and the ideology the Guilty Remnant provides fills a hole, for a while. You can’t take that away without providing something else.
I don’t think Laurie wants to be a cult leader. As poorly executed as it is, I think she is still trying to hold on to what she believed before the Departure, which is that with therapy, a sympathetic ear, and a community, people can share their burden and get mentally healthy.
There's this isolation and this violent universe that [The Leftovers] now inhabits where people go fucking feral.
Fifty percent of the person being healed is wanting the thing to work. If I believe that homeopathic medicine is going to work, then it has a much larger hope of working than if I say it’s not going to work. So is [Tom hugging people to heal them] duping people? I don’t know. It’s taking their own internal need to be healed, and harnessing it.

Laurie and Tom (Chris Zylka) plot their next move. (HBO)
Amy Brenneman: I approached this season utterly surrendered — in a great, great way. The process of last year wasn’t that I wasn’t surrendered, but that I still kept trying to quote unquote "understand."
In the middle part of last season, I suddenly was like, "I don’t know what my character would do." My question to Damon would be, "Am I doing what you want me to do?" Quite literally. I am in discovery, as we all are. For all the times in my current life where I have to be in control of something, it was actually really lovely. Passivity, in the best sense.
When you can trust, then you can not worry about it. I don’t know how it’s going to add up, but it’s going to be truthful, moment to moment.
Every Sunday, we pick a new episode of the week. It could be good. It could be bad. It will always be interesting. The episode of the week for October 11 through 17, 2015, is the second episode of American Horror Story: Hotel, season five, titled "Chutes and Ladders."
One of the best pieces of TV journalism I've read recently is Lacey Rose's profile of super-producer Ryan Murphy in the Hollywood Reporter.
Rose accurately names Murphy, who has three major shows either on the air or arriving imminently (American Horror Story, Scream Queens, and American Crime Story) and gigantic hits like Glee in his past, the most powerful TV producer not named Shonda Rhimes.
But she also gets at something I've felt seeping into Murphy's work for a while, something that's only been heightened in both Scream Queens and the current season of American Horror Story: Murphy no longer wants to be one of the cool young teens or 20-somethings. No, he's become their dad, and he's a little horrified by what they're up to.
And it's hurting his shows.
Rose pegs a major shift in Murphy's personality to his 2012 marriage to David Miller and the arrival of the couple's two sons. Writes Rose:
For years, he was among the industry's prickliest figures. He'd famously resist nearly every note he was given, and a damning tweet or a few poor reviews could send him spiraling. "When I was starting out in Hollywood, everything was such a battle," he says, seated now in his three-story loft-style office on the Fox lot. "My impulse had always been to be a person who's uptight, who's all, 'I'll show them' and 'I got to change the world so that people like me don't go through this anymore,' and while I still feel a degree of that, it's different for me now. I feel like I grew up in such a big way in the past couple of years, in a way that I never thought I would." Then, a smile sets in: "You can't be the enfant terrible when you have the enfant at home."
Rose also looks back to Murphy's days on Glee, when he says he would leave work with the cast, then go right out and spend the night partying with them. In the interview, he says he was trying to have another childhood. As Rose establishes, his actual childhood was full of pain and heartache.
That's all fine as it goes. There are many, many artists who start out writing stories from the point of view of the children in parent-child relationships, then start writing from the point of view of the parent once they have kids. But Murphy's storytelling style is intentionally provocative and deliberately surface-level. He never lets you guess what's going on when you could be told, at length, what he thinks. (Weirdly, that makes his closest showrunner cousins South Park's Trey Parker and Matt Stone, whose show runs opposite AHS on Wednesday nights.) For instance, the latest AHS episode, "Chutes and Ladders," pauses frequently for monologues in which characters lay out in excruciating expository detail just what's wrong at the ol' hotel.
Since he's shifted from identifying with the kids to identifying with the parents, however, Murphy's didactic style has turned him into something he's never been before: a bit of a scold.
In many ways, American Horror Story: Hotel is a chance for Murphy and co-creator Brad Falchuk to take another crack at Murder House, the first season of the show and one of the most influential TV seasons in recent memory. At the time, the show's wild mashup of horror movie influences, music video style, and completely bizarre plot twists felt like nothing else on TV. It didn't make sense, and it was often actively terrible, but it was always trying something.
Hotel is at once more disciplined and somehow less coherent. The series' visual aesthetic cribs heavily from the music videos of this season's star, Lady Gaga, and the story rehashes season one's idea that the titular structure is haunted by seemingly thousands of ghosts, then adds vampires, who are quick to assure they aren't vampires — they just have "the virus," because Murphy said earlier he'd never do vampires on the show.
Yet amid the co-mingling of sex and death, a constant on the show, there are frequent parental freakouts. The season premiere featured a nightmarish kidnapping scenario, and now that kidnapped child, whose police officer father is investigating the blood-soaked hotel's origins, has turned up at the hotel, having not aged a day. It's completely ridiculous, but also occasionally poignant. Parents fret endlessly over losing a child; those who are unlucky enough to actually see it happen often wind up with images of that child, frozen in time, unable to progress through adolescence toward adulthood.
But that parental paranoia infects other portions of the series as well, in less enjoyable ways. In particular, the scenes featuring the deathless kidnapped children suggest a Parents.com contributed piece about how much time kids spend looking at screens nowadays. (When the vampire kids aren't chasing guests around the hotel, they're eating candy and playing Space Invaders, because sure.)
Meanwhile, there's a whole scene in "Chutes and Ladders" devoted to a doctor discovering that one of her patients (whom we may never see again, knowing this show) has the measles, because anti-vaccination rhetoric is strong in the southern California world she lives in. The show keeps setting aside its usual adventures in horror pastiche for earnest considerations of the dangers kids face today, and it's just weird.
My colleague Caroline Framke accurately pegs Scream Queens' greatest problem as its casual satiric racism that is, nevertheless, delivered by characters Murphy and company obviously adore writing for. ("She gets to say the things we can't!" you imagine them cackling.)
But it's also done in by Murphy's new concerns over the future of America's children. To be sure, there are scenes when this new obsession is confidently handled, funny even. In the series premiere, one character couldn't stop texting and tweeting, to the degree that she sent out a tweet detailing her death at the hands of the series' slasher villain. It was the kind of satire Murphy's shows hit just often enough to keep you watching.
But the show also seems deeply worried about America's teenagers, in a way Glee really didn't. For as much of an after-school special on amphetamines as that show was, it had a fundamental belief in the goodness of its kids. All of the show's true villains were adults, and if a teenager seemed to be a bad guy, he would reveal a sweet side soon enough.
That's not really true on Scream Queens. Its college girls are vapid and status-obsessed. The guys are meathead goofballs who treat the women in their life poorly, if they're not stalking them. All of this is satirical and in keeping with the heavily stereotypical characters in the slasher films the show parodies (right down to the token "good girl" who will probably make it to the end), but it feels like the awful teen panic movie Thirteen, which never met an aspect of adolescent sexuality it couldn't freak out over.
None of this is to suggest that Murphy's work has gotten that much worse. He's still the wildly inconsistent, occasionally awful, occasionally genius writer he's always been. But his perspective has shifted in ways he may not even be fully aware of, and it's fascinating to watch as his shows shift from series that celebrated teenage experimentation to shows that endlessly worry about it.
American Horror Story airs Wednesdays on FX at 10 pm Eastern. Scream Queens airs Tuesdays on Fox at 9 pm Eastern.
Correction: This article originally mixed up the last names of Trey Parker and Matt Stone. It's been fixed!
Half the fun of watching Saturday Night Live during presidential campaign season is seeing whom the show finds to impersonate each candidate. Usually it raids its own cast members, as with Kate McKinnon's brilliant take on Hillary Clinton. But every so often the stars align, and a candidate looks just like a famous comedian.
It happened most famously with Tina Fey and Sarah Palin in 2008, and now, as many have noted, Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders and Curb Your Enthusiasm star Larry David look and sound incredibly similar. SNL noticed, too, and it brought out David to star as Sanders in its sketch riffing on the first Democratic debate, which opened the October 17 episode.
David is pretty much perfect as Sanders, even if SNL's take on the man seems to boil down to "old man who likes to yell at things."
"If you don't mind, I'm gonna dial it right up to a 10," he says right from the first. "We're doomed. We need a revolution! Millions of people on the streets! And we gotta do something! And we gotta do it now!" But it's the way this speech ends that sells the laugh. His impassioned shouting over, David's Sanders simply concludes with an extended, "Ehhhh!"
Simply making Sanders into a grouchy old man could have struggled to provoke laughs, but for two things. First, David is great at playing a crotchety old man. His Sanders is basically a riff on Frank Costanza, the harrumphing old man character from Seinfeld, which David co-created. And second, grumpy old man jokes are almost always at least a little funny.
David is so good he steals the spotlight from several other prominent actors, like Alec Baldwin who dropped by to play former Sen. Jim Webb as a hulking macho man figure, and the always entertaining McKinnon. (After warning the audience that Sanders is promising America a golden goose, her Clinton says, "There is no golden goose, so America, follow me, because I've got some chicken that will do.")
But, no, it was all about David as Sanders. What new adventures will this Grampa Simpson-esque riff on the senator get up to? Only time and Larry David's availability will tell.
The knock against Crimson Peak, the gorgeous new haunted house psychodrama playing around the country, is that it's not scary. Beautiful, sure. Spooky, maybe. But scary? Not at all.
Take, for instance, this review by Rick Bentley of the Fresno Bee:
More attention to the terror and less to the Victorian-style tale of love, betrayal and murder would have made the film far scarier.
This is fine as it goes. If you go into Crimson Peak expecting to be absolutely terrified, you'll be disappointed. There are a couple of creepy sequences, but they're so telegraphed by the score and camerawork that you won't be suddenly overwhelmed with suspense, gripping your seat in terror.

Yet at the same time, this clearly isn't what Crimson Peak is up to. Despite hailing from horror maestro Guillermo del Toro and featuring a couple of jittery, wispy ghouls, Crimson Peak isn't a horror movie. It's a ghost story.
And yes, there's a difference.
Del Toro, who co-wrote the film with Matthew Robbins, certainly knows his various creepy subgenres. If the disappointing Pacific Rim (his last film) was an elaborate mashup of dozens of giant monster movies, then this is an elaborate mashup of the haunted house tales popular around the turn of the 20th century and, by extension, the films made of those stories in the 1940s, '50s, and '60s. Indeed, the movie it may be most reminiscent of is the classic 1961 film The Innocents, itself an adaptation of the Henry James novel The Turn of the Screw.

Rating
And the thing to understand about a proper British ghost story is that the ghosts are often incidental to the action. Yes, they're there, but they're a way of making the story's psychological subtext into text, the lurching reminders of the past that threaten to uncover long-buried secrets.
This stems from the fact that in their traditional form, ghosts can't really hurt you. They can scare you, sure, and they can put on quite a show. But they can't physically harm you, because they're trapped on some other plane of existence. Crimson Peak plays by these rules, for the most part. The ghosts touch heroine Edith (Mia Wasikowska) here and there, but they can't really harm her, only scare her. In time, she starts to realize they might even be on her side.
And lord knows Edith needs someone on her side. Recently married to a baronet named Thomas (Tom Hiddleston) after the mysterious death of her father, Edith finds herself locked up in the wheezy, drafty old Allerdale Hall with Thomas and his vituperative sister, Lucille (Jessica Chastain). The three of them orbit each other endlessly, drawing closer and closer, waiting for the collision we know must come. Can you blame visitors from beyond the grave for wanting to help the heroine?
Edith herself points this out to someone early in the film. An aspiring novelist, she says that her book isn't really a ghost story. It's a story with a ghost in it. That describes both Crimson Peak and the genre it loosely belongs to.
Even those who've wrongly panned Crimson Peak sing praises of its production design. Del Toro has long been one of our most visually sumptuous directors, and Allerdale is one of his finest creations, a moldy castle atop a clay-filled hill that's slowly sinking into the mud.
There's not enough money to repair the roof, so falling leaves and, later, snow drift into the open areas. There's a groaning old elevator and pipes that seem to whisper Edith's name, to say nothing of the giant vats of red, goopy clay in the basement.
All of which is to say that Allerdale is the perfect setting for a ghost story, because ghost stories require houses with almost more personality than those who live in them — both alive and dead. Haunted houses are guardians of mysteries, keepers of secrets that are not easily learned. They also often seem to be alive, as does Allerdale. When the east wind blows, the fireplaces surge, and the house seems to breathe. It's not a place. It's an entity.
That's intentional. In many ghost stories (and almost all Gothic romances, another genre Crimson Peak flirts with), the house itself is less a physical location than a manifestation of the central evils that are being hidden. There is almost no way you won't guess many of the secrets locked away within this movie, but then, that's because it all but telegraphs them to you from frame one.
And even if it wasn't, the house would be. The last crumbling edifice of the Sharpe family, it stands as a reminder of how far they've fallen and how hard times have become. If that didn't clue you in to what ultimately lies buried at the heart of the film, nothing will.
But then, Crimson Peak is also a tragedy, one in which the protagonist uncovers the fatal flaw of the family she just so happens to have married into, one in which the incestuous subtext between too-close siblings from other ghost stories is brazenly made text as the film heads for its climax.
This means that the fact that it's easy to predict ends up being part of what it's trying to do. The ghosts, after all, know everything, and they're on our hero's side as she delves into the house's history. Tragedies gain their weight from the way they unfold, the way we come to understand how unavoidable the final, horrible moments truly were, no matter what any of the characters did.
Look, for instance, at del Toro's best film and richest ghost story, The Devil's Backbone. Even if the ghost in that film has moments where he's legitimately terrifying, he's still just a little boy, and his existence is a constant echo of the wartime reality the children in the film are forced to live through. The secrets of his creation don't weigh as heavily on the film as the sheer fact that these young boys have to live through the horrors of war. Tragedy, not horror.
So, yes, Crimson Peak isn't scary, but that doesn't bother me. I think in time it will come to be seen as one of del Toro's better films, one that exudes confidence in how it tells its true story through visuals. It's suffused with psychological richness and a melancholy sense of regret, and it features some of the most beautiful visuals of the year.
And above all else, it knows one thing. It's not a ghost story. It's a story with a ghost in it.
Crimson Peak is playing throughout the country. See it!
"While racial injustice keeps killing, society keeps looking away."
So begins a gripping new video from Tidal, the streaming music company started by Jay Z, featuring Usher, Nas, and Bibi Bourelly. "Chains" was released this morning for free, a rarity from the service, and it's a solid song with a thumping beat that will get stuck in your chest for weeks if you let it. But that's almost beside the point. "Chains" is, first and foremost, a protest song — and its video literally won't let you look away.
When you open the page for "Chains," it prompts you to activate your webcam, and then makes sure it can see your face. The video then starts a haunting montage of unarmed people of color who have been killed by police (Sean Bell, Rekia Boyd, Tamir Rice) and others (Trayvon Martin). More stories can be found on Tidal's accompanying "Look Deeper" feature. Usher rips through the passionate lyrics before finally settling into a loop: "We still in chains."
The video is compelling, in the most literal sense of the word. If your attention wanders, the song pauses, and a command appears on the screen: "DON'T LOOK AWAY."
While the internet provides crucial spaces for underserved voices, there are always countless distractions just a click away. But "Chains" insists on you participating, listening, and focusing, as you stare death and injustice in the face.
Correction: In the original post, Trayvon Martin was listed as having been killed by the police, when he was not.
The dust had barely settled on Marvel's big news about an Ant-Man and Wasp sequel and its rejiggering of its Phase 3 schedule, when another, bigger story came crashing down out of nowhere. Marvel, according to unnamed sources, had re-acquired the film rights to its Fantastic Four franchise.
Fox and Marvel have denied the rumor. But that didn't stop fans from daydreaming about the possibilities of Marvel's first family rejoining the club. Some are still holding out hope that maybe a reporter flubbed the specifics and there's still a deal in place.
A lot of that excitement is because Fox (which also owns the rights to the X-Men) has never really figured out a way to make a serviceable movie with the Fantastic Four. Moving to Marvel Studios, which has a proven record of spinning the weird and esoteric into box office gold, would give the family a new shot.
While a First Family reunion and subsequent integration into the Marvel Cinematic Universe would be a sentimental and feel-good story, the Four aren't what Marvel needs (or, at this point, likely wants). What Marvel needs are good villains, and it just so happens that one of most iconic Marvel villains ever created is actually bundled into Fantastic Four's film rights.
That's right: The best part of the Fantastic Four is actually Doctor Doom.
The stories about how Marvel sold the film rights to its most bankable superheroes are often the same: Marvel was financially unstable in the '90s and, in a series of deals, sold properties like Spider-Man, the X-Men, and the Fantastic Four to studios including Sony and Fox. Those film rights are the reason we don't have crossover events of the sort we see in Marvel comics, and why the X-Men and Avengers can never be friends.
Thinking about those rights in terms of heroes doesn't tell the full story, though. The original 1993 agreement between Fox and Marvel is sealed, but thanks to a 2001 rights dispute between the two companies, we got a glimpse of just how comprehensive the rights were [emphasis Vox's]:
Paragraph 6 of the Agreement, entitled "Granted Rights," states that Property to which Fox obtained rights included (i) certain characters specified in Exhibit A to the Agreement, (ii) the so-called "origin stories" of those characters appearing in the story or screenplay of the film, (iii) all individual storylines from individual comic books other than the origin stories, and, in a catch-all provision, (iv) "all other elements relating to the Property and the Characters."
…
Exhibit A to the Agreement limits the characters which Fox may exploit to (i) certain "Initial Characters," comprising the principal and featured characters in the approved story, screenplay, or Marvel's publications, as well as 15 other "Core Characters" from the X-Men Universe of comics, and (ii) certain "Additional Characters," who are among the characters from a limited "X-Universe" of seven comic books, which Fox may add by written notice to Marvel.
Phrases like "catch-all provision" and "all other elements" point to how vague these agreements were. Even the specifics like "15 other core characters" and "seven comic books" are still extensive. It's simple: Marvel signed away entire universes to Sony and Fox.
Villains were also dispatched in those universes. Villains like Venom and Magneto are very specific to Spider-Man and the X-Men. But when it comes to the Fantastic Four's Doom, the situation is a bit different, in that these he's had more of a presence in the stories of the properties (Doctor Strange, the Avengers) that Marvel retained.
While Magneto has the lore of being Malcolm X to Charles Xavier's Martin Luther King  Jr. (it's even cited in the 2001 legal dispute above) and Thanos has the omnipotent Infinity Gauntlet going for him, Doom is the only villain in the Marvel Universe who literally has a permanent RBF (resting bitch face):
Doom — going by the comic books and ignoring the garbage fire that was the most recent Fantastic Four movie — had his face burned in an explosion while working on a machine (which he blames Reed Richards for). So he's fashioned a mask for himself. Its eyelids are perpetually half open, a preemptive judgment of resentment at whomever he graces with his presence. The mouth is a sharpened frown, evincing outright disdain for the world around him.
There's a school of thought — originated by Doom's creator, Jack Kirby — that Doom is not actually disfigured but is instead overreacting to a small scar. (There's a variation on this that says Doom reacted to a chin scar and put a red-hot iron mask on his face, but Doom is not an idiot and would never do this.)
While comic book fans vary on that idea, what Kirby was getting at is that Doom is a perfectionist who is also stricken with terminal arrogance. His overreaction isn't one of vanity as much as it is one of fear of a visible imperfection. This is a guy who believes he's superior to every person on the planet ("We were born better"), so even the tiniest imperfection would seem catastrophic.
Doom's Byronic arrogance and thirst for godliness fuel his actions. He's attempted to take over countries, created an army of robots, and fed the soul of the woman he loved to netherdemons who wanted to grant him power (Fantastic Four No. 67). He's also teamed up with superheroes (AXIS) and saved the world on more than one occasion. What drives Doom isn't an adherence to good or evil, but rather how much he can gain. It's this pure, unabashed fidelity to his own being that's made him bigger than the foes he's fighting. (Well, that and he is a master of the dark arts and makes some scary-ass robots.)

Doctor Doom toots as he pleases. (Marvel)
If there's any flaw in Marvel's seven-year clinic on how to make superhero movies, it's that its villains — save for Bucky Barnes and Loki — are largely forgettable. Characters like Ultron, Red Skull, and Ronan the Accuser are still playing integral roles in the comic books, but don't feel particularly consequential or all that different in the movies.
There's no comparing them with the X-Men's longstanding battle with Magneto, Superman's endless fight with Lex Luthor, or Batman's eternal battle with the Joker. Magneto is a Holocaust survivor — this crafts his worldview and utter disdain and distrust of humans.  Lex Luthor displays the egotistical side of a hero complex that he shares with Superman. The Joker is determined to convince Batman that they're two sides of the same coin.
Marvel's movie bad guys all want to destroy the world. They're all very powerful. But there's nothing compelling to them besides their evilness. And they all ultimately become one-movie stands.
Doom has the gravitas to be better than that. Pair up Doom with the right actor (Mads Mikkelsen, please), and he could be as charismatic as Loki, as ruthless as Ultron, and miles better than anyone we've seen in Thor's two movies, Guardians of the Galaxy, or Ant-Man.
Doom feels like a villain who matters, and Marvel's cinematic universe is in desperate need of one of those.
TV medical dramas long ago stopped being compelling. After the long runs of ER and Grey's Anatomy — to say nothing of shorter, but still long, runs for shows like House and Chicago Hope — it's tough to find anything new to say in the genre. Except a show you're not watching has, in thrilling fashion.

Rating
That's why you really should be watching Cinemax's early-1900s medical series The Knick, which is a sumptuous, surprisingly nimble treat. It returns for its second season on Friday, October 16, at 9 pm Eastern, and simply by shifting everything to the turn of the 20th century it's made a hidebound genre feel that much more compelling.

In its first season, the show occasionally leaned too heavily on medical drama clichés, but by its end it had pulled together nicely, with one hell of a cliffhanger (about which more below). Now, in season two, it's altogether richer, more daring, and even more fun.
Here are five reasons to let The Knick fill the medical-drama-size hole in your life.
Of course it is. Oscar-winning director and all-American auteur Steven Soderbergh has directed all 20 hours of the show so far. Since every script for the season is completed in advance of shooting (mostly by creators Jack Amiel and Michael Begler, whose research into period medicine is unparalleled), he's able to film a nearly 600-minute project in less time than many 120-minute films take. He gives the series the kind of cohesive visual style that few other TV shows can approach.
For the most part, we're not used to thinking of TV in terms of its visuals but rather in terms of the stories it tells. It is, after all, still a medium dominated by writers. That makes The Knick an anomaly, but an interesting one, especially if Soderbergh's journey from the world of film to TV is at all predictive of what's to come.
And in the first four episodes of season two, Soderbergh outdoes himself in terms of beautiful images. The main character is outlined against bright blue skies as he slowly, painfully overcomes a crippling addiction. The camera closes in on a woman's face from a wide shot as she realizes just how alone she truly is. Human faces dominate so many frames, as if Soderbergh were inviting us to see them as a collection of component parts.
"It's so refreshing and encouraging to have a singular vision for something like this. It's his baby. He's on top of all aspects. He lights, he edits, he directs, he operates. There's just something great about not having a series of voices driving the thing," Clive Owen, who plays the series' lead, told me.
Half the fun of watching this show is realizing how skillfully Soderbergh tells the story so that you would understand its emotional undercurrents, even if the television were on mute.
Owen's character, Dr. John Thackery, spent most of the first season horribly addicted to cocaine. In the season finale, he was finally sent to a sort of proto-rehab, where he was to overcome his addiction with the help of a new wonder drug, which turned out to be heroin. It was a dark, sick twist to end the season, and as season two begins, Thack (as many call him) struggles to return to his normal life.
The series doesn't turn addiction into a plot point or something Thack simply needs to overcome. It allows its horrors to forever stalk him, and as the season wears on, he decides to start treating it as a medical problem, something that might eventually be cured. Thack is nothing without a quixotic quest, and in trying to chase his own demons (quite literally), he's got one that gives the season greater drive.
"The drive in him that pushes him to push forward the boundaries of medicine is the same thing that causes him to have a very addictive personality," Owen told me. "It's treading that high-wire act and playing that balance."
Even if the entirety of The Knick were a mess outside of the surgical theater, it would be worth watching for the squirm-inducing, riveting moments when it gives itself over to Thack and his colleagues as they push the boundaries of early-20th-century medical science. These sequences are bloody and gross and riveting. Even when nothing else is working, they are.
Above all else, they underscore just how on the edge medical science was for so very long. The era depicted in The Knick is barely over 100 years old, but it might as well feel like another world entirely for as dangerous as every surgery seems to be. There's a moment in one episode when the only way to perform a necessary procedure is to slip a knife behind a patient's eye without somehow splitting it open, and it might send you right out the window. It's great.
"Every operation was happening at that time in the way we do it in the series. What it does is make you think there is no question that in 50 years' time we'll be looking back and saying, 'Did we really believe that at that time?'" Owen told me.
The Knick sneakily turned into an examination of how women and black people survived in its world in season one. It took some time, but by the season's midpoint, André Holland's Algernon Edwards was almost as important as Thack, and the series had dug into what was both exciting and isolating about being the first black surgeon at the titular hospital. He and Thack, initially at odds, ended up a terrific team.
The show's focus on women is almost as skillful, particularly when it comes to Cara Seymour as Sister Harriet, a nun who also performs abortions and finds herself afoul of the church and the law as the season begins. Implicit within The Knick is the idea that Thack gets chance after chance after chance to fuck up, because he's brilliant and he looks like Clive Owen, while others around him are quickly tossed aside for the most minor of events.
But, weirdly, Thack's addiction allows him to find common cause with the others around him. He might not be truly an outsider, but the fact that he's forever on the edge of completely crumbling into dust gives him a slight glimpse into others' lives. That led to the staff and occupants of the Knick feeling like a community with common cause in season one, which gave the series a surprisingly modern feel. That continues in season two.
From Cliff Martinez's throbbing electronic score to the way the series seems to take place in an everlasting December, and from the soft glow of the early electric lights to the unblinking focus on Thack's issues, this is a show that always seems to make the right call to feel completely like itself and no other show.
The Knick still, occasionally, leans on medical drama standbys, as if it were ER in 1901, but even those feel less obvious in season two. All in all, this is a show as confident and self-possessed as any on TV, sure of what it is and of where it's going. Even if you haven't seen season one, the show has enough episodic elements to dive on in with the new premiere, and if you have, you're in for an even bigger treat.
And if none of that's reason enough, take it from Clive Owen: "We do some pretty epic operations in season two." Sounds just fine to me.
The Knick airs Fridays at 9 pm Eastern on Cinemax.
The fifth season of Homeland just got a huge publicity boost — but maybe not exactly along the lines Showtime might have hoped.
Late on October 14, a trio of artists called Arabian Street Artists revealed that when Homeland hired them to "lend graffiti authenticity to a film set of a Syrian refugee camp on the Lebanese/Syrian border," they graffitied slams against the show instead. In the fifth season's second episode, which aired on October 11, Claire Danes and company walked right past insults against Homeland.
The gist, as seen in the below image: "Homeland is racist."
Homeland, a show centering on a brilliant but unstable CIA operative working to fight terrorism, has never beat around the bush so far as its villains. There are rarely euphemisms for groups when the show references real-life organizations. The line between fiction and reality has always been blurred.
The Arabian Street Artists trio — composed of Heba Y. Amin, Caram Kapp, and Stone — wrote a thorough explanation of why they take issue with the series. They write that they were hesitant to take the job until they realized they could use it as a platform to quite literally air their grievances:
We considered what a moment of intervention could relay about our own and many others’ political discontent with the series. It was our moment to make our point by subverting the message using the show itself.
They then emphasized how they believe Homeland has misrepresented Middle Eastern issues from the very start, like its first season's implications that "Al Qaida is actually an Iranian venture ... not only closely tied to Hezbollah, but [that it] even sought revenge against the US on behalf of Iran."
They further argue that Homeland needs to be more cognizant of its implications, given pop culture's power to influence the greater public to accept sensationalized storylines as fact. "This dangerous phantasm has become mainstream ‘knowledge’ in the US," they write, "and has been repeated as fact by many mass media outlets."
As for how they got away with it, they explain that the Homeland staff simply wasn't paying any attention, since they were trying to construct an intricate set in just two days.
Still, it's impressive that the harsh graffiti got through all the way to air without someone flagging it. Footage goes through countless hands — editors, directors, post-production supervisors, and so on. While Homeland has had consultants from the CIA and beyond for the creative side of things, this oversight on the production end is a big one. As New York Times television critic James Poniewozik wrote about the graffiti: "All anybody in charge of bringing the episode to air was able to see was squibbly."
And so the Arabian Street Artists don't let Homeland off so easily for missing their insults. "In their eyes," they write, "Arabic script is merely a supplementary visual that completes the horror-fantasy of the Middle East."
As the Arabian Street Artists point out, they are far from the first to register displeasure with Homeland's vision of Middle Eastern politics.
The second season depicted Beirut's Hamra district as a desolate wasteland populated by machine gun–wielding terrorists, when in reality it is a thriving cosmopolitan center. Last year's fourth season drew controversy when it named a terrorist character "Haissam Haqqani," hewing rather close to Husain Haqqani, the former Pakistani ambassador to the United States.
Homeland's relationship to the Middle East is perhaps best depicted with the stark promotional image for the show's fourth season:
Claire Danes's character, a blonde agent from the States, looks back at us from amidst a sea of faceless black burqas. The image stresses her vulnerability and singularity in an unidentifiable, threatening mass of black — or what the Arabian Street Artists called that "dangerous phantasm" of the Middle East.
Showrunner Alex Gansa released a statement the following day to Deadline:
We wish we’d caught these images before they made it to air. However, as Homeland always strives to be subversive in its own right and a stimulus for conversation, we can’t help but admire this act of artistic sabotage.
The statement is a canny pivot away from the issue at hand that compliments the show while avoiding addressing any of the artists' concerns.
In other words: It's a pitch-perfect crisis management statement that tells us nothing at all.
Late in Truth, the new "based on a true story" movie about the botched 60 Minutes report that cost former CBS news anchor Dan Rather (among others) his job, a character asks Rather (played here by Robert Redford) why he got into journalism in the first place.

Rating
"Curiosity," Rather replies, underlining the film's constant reminders that journalists are there to ask questions, and if they don't, who will? This is true, insofar as it goes, but nobody likes a scold, and Truth has long since passed the point of repetition with this particular message.

But what, Rather asks, got this other young man into journalism?
"You!" the other says, and the camera holds in close-up on Rather's face as music swells majestically on the soundtrack. He's not just the hero of the film; he's a fallen martyr for an entire profession, condemned because he asked questions and got answers others weren't happy with.
Movies like Truth are why so many people hate "Hollywood liberals."
The central problem with Truth is how thoroughly it stacks its deck. It's not really comfortable with the idea that its central characters got something wrong, so it continues to insist — long past the point of reasonableness — that they got everything right, that even the famously suspicious memos that led to so many of their firings were never definitively proved fake (that's because they also can't be definitively proved genuine). It really wants you to think they got the right story and were buried for it.
Which is bullshit. The characters at the film's center — led by veteran producer Mary Mapes (Cate Blanchett) — got rolled by a flimsy source whose background they didn't spend nearly enough time checking, a man who obtained mysterious documents under mysterious circumstances, then completely undercut his own story as soon as the temperature started to rise. (Perhaps tellingly, the film is based on Mapes's book.)
Mapes and Rather were asking some interesting questions about George W. Bush's Air National Guard service (or lack thereof), and the information they found without the memos (which alleged that higher-ups covered for him during a long period when he went AWOL) would have been enough for a damning report. But they pushed for something else, because it made for a better scoop and a more exciting story. They were bumping up against a hard deadline, and they made the wrong call, then got buried for it.
Truth could be so good if it worked less to valorize its subjects. The movie's argument at first seems to be that the reporters got everything right but the memos, and that one tiny flaw eventually caused a nation to doubt the entire story.
And that idea could work! It could be a story about hubris and overlooking the tiniest of details and the punishment not fitting the crime. There are hints of that movie scattered throughout Truth (as when Mapes goes online and sees people spewing horrible invective about her), but they're few and far between.
More often, first-time director James Vanderbilt shoots his heroes in soft focus, like they're real-life versions of Gregory Peck as Atticus Finch, the only people willing to stand up for what's good and right in a world gone mad. "The rest of the story was airtight!" the movie argues, "So who cares about those memos? (Also, the memos were totally real and nobody wanted you to know that.)"
That's all well and good for an argument in an online comments section, but in a movie that purports to be about finding the truth, it ignores how a mistake that fundamental is slightly different from, say, spelling someone's name incorrectly. The movie refuses to acknowledge its characters as anything other than glistening heroes, and that's its undoing.
Set aside for the moment your own political persuasions, and assume that literally everything Mapes and Rather reported — including the contents of the memos — was true as they reported it. The story is still deeply problematic, simply because the origin of those memos doesn't hold up to any real scrutiny. Getting the story is important, yes, but sourcing is even more important, and that's where the two fell down on the job. (This is to say nothing of Mapes's contact with the John Kerry campaign, which literally comes out of nowhere in the film and is handled poorly.)
To its credit, Truth doesn't have a lot of bad guys. It doesn't cut away to a blogger twirling his mustache and talking about kerning or font styles (two of the details that called the memos into question). The worst sin in the film's universe is failing to stand by these hard-nosed reporters as they quest for the truth, which means that most of its "bad" characters are simply characters who crumple at moments of convenience, rather than standing beside their team.
Thus, the film's point of view is morally simplistic. The good guys are great and incapable of wrongdoing. The bad guys are good until they're not. The real villains are society, the Bush administration, and unseen legions of internet commenters. It's a film built to assure people who agree with Mapes and Rather that, yes, they are doing good work for continuing to ask hard questions of people in power, but mostly Republicans. (It's hard to imagine this creative team producing a movie like this where the villain was the Clinton or Obama administrations.)
And, look, it can be fun to be in the choir that's being preached to. But this sort of liberal agitprop rarely serves to do anything other than puff up egos and make people feel good for believing what they do. While there are conservative versions of the same thing, they're mostly confined to fringe corners of our pop culture, whereas Truth will get an Oscar campaign and features big-name stars. (It's worth noting that Blanchett is tremendous, as she always is, but it's not enough to save the film.)
Morally simplistic filmmaking is fine sometimes. It can be fun. But it belongs nowhere near a movie like this, which advances a real argument about the nature of journalism and really does try to tell an important story. What Vanderbilt and company don't understand is that they're not making a movie about journalists crusading against those in power; they're making a movie about journalists who thought they were doing that, then got one — seemingly tiny, seemingly inconsequential, but ultimately disastrous — thing wrong.
Truth expands throughout the country in the weeks to come.
This week's motivational music is here, and, as is fitting for the back half of 2015, it comes to you courtesy of Broadway's electric new musical Hamilton.
Songwriter and star Lin-Manuel Miranda dropped by BET's Hip-Hop Awards on October 13 with co-stars Daveed Diggs and Renée Elise Goldsberry to participate in the Cypher, a semi-freestyled rap circle hosted by Black Thought of the Roots.
The Cypher is a Hip-Hop Awards tradition, inviting hip-hop luminaries past and present to collaborate in a series of small-group freestyles. This year's also included an all-beatboxing one, and past years have featured Drake, Kendrick Lamar, Macklemore, Mos Def, and Eminem. Nicki Minaj has popped up several times, including in an awesome all-female Cypher featuring Eve, Tiffany Foxx, Iggy Azalea, and Lil' Kim. Broadway stars, however, are new to the Cypher stage.
Miranda, Diggs, and Goldsberry all rap in Hamilton. Miranda and Diggs even go head to head in a pair of Cabinet debates that double as rap battles.

But seeing them rap in their own words, outside the context of their historical characters (Alexander Hamilton, Marquis de Lafayette/Thomas Jefferson, and Angelica Schuyler Church, respectively) is thrilling. They all bring their own personal experiences to their freestyles, calling back to their upbringings and inspirations as their stars rise with Hamilton.

Diggs, Questlove, Miranda, Black Thought, and Goldsberry. (BET)
Miranda has had one hell of a 2015, between the massive success of Hamilton, getting tapped to write the music for Disney's Moana, and receiving a MacArthur Genius Grant to continue his work, whatever that may be. Also, in case you didn't already feel lazy by comparison, he turned 35 in January.
In his Cypher rap, though, Miranda reminds us of his roots. He raps about doing his homework "in the back of a bodega with Abuela / saving up to get a Sega," before delving into a litany of his influences.
There are the expected hip-hop shout-outs to the people whom Miranda credits with helping him build Hamilton's "monument to hip-hop," including the Notorious B.I.G., Tupac, Raekwon, Dr. Dre, Eminem, Jay Z, and Cypher host Black Thought. But there's also a telling reference in Spic-O-Rama, John Leguizamo's off-Broadway one-man show (1992-'93). Spic-O-Rama followed a family of six living in Jackson Heights, Queens, and Leguizamo played all of them.
"Have you not seen what we can do?" Manuel raps in the Cypher, "I write shows stacked with black and Puerto Rican dudes." Between his Tony Award-winning musical In the Heights, about Latino youth in Washington Heights, and Manuel's insistence on casting a musical about the Founding Fathers almost exclusively with actors of color, Miranda has already brought more diversity to Broadway than most have in a lifetime.
Miranda clearly valued Spic-O-Rama enough to catch it on VHS, but thanks to the magic of the Internet, you can watch it right now on Hulu.
Goldsberry (Hamilton's Angelica Schuyler Church), spitting truth. (BET)
While Miranda and Diggs spend much of their time on the Hamilton stage rapping, Goldsberry's restless Angelica is more of a traditional Broadway belter. She does get an ecstatic rap verse in the middle of her show-stopping number "Satisfied," but after watching her performance in the Cypher, it's a damn shame Angelica doesn't get more rapping to do, because Goldsberry crushes it.
(This side of Goldsberry might also come as a surprise for fans of The Good Wife, who know her as the no-nonsense Geneva Pine.)
She dedicates her verse to "the ladies in our history — we know the Founding Fathers, but the Mothers are a mystery." As Miranda, Diggs, Black Thought, and Questlove bob in the background, Goldsberry spits out one name after the other without blinking:
Spitting bars harder than Joan of Arc's armor
Drivin' Rosa Parks's car, bustin' out Frances Farmer
Airborne with Amelia Earhart, walkin' tightropes
Being Pocahontas, giving smallpox to white folks,
Comin' out swingin' like Venus and Serena
On the screen I rep the queens, from Nefertiti to Latifah,
Ain't I a woman? Like Soujourner, I'm the truth,
Hand on the Bible: book of Esther, book of Ruth,
I pray to the Railroad, to the chariot, with Harriet,
And Marie Curie brought some shit so hot we had to bury it,
Get my golden lariat, I'm a Wonder Woman gunnin' for 'em —
What you runnin' from?
If Miranda wanted to follow up Hamilton with something on Founding Mothers, it certainly seems like Goldsberry would be a worthy collaborator.

Diggs (Hamilton's Lafayette/Jefferson). (BET)
Unlike Miranda and Goldsberry, Diggs had very little theater experience prior to Hamilton. He knew Miranda through the Freestyle Love Supreme collective, which Diggs has described as "where freestyle meets sketch comedy." He's been rapping all his life, most recently in Clipping, a hip-hop trio.
As for theater, Diggs told Broadway.com, "I had decided early on that Broadway would not have a space for me," and so he was startled and thrilled when Miranda carved out a space for him with not one role, but two. Diggs's takes on the hyperactive Marquis de Lafayette and smirking Thomas Jefferson have received special notice in Hamilton, not least because of his ability to rap faster and harder than anyone else onstage.
His Cypher rap shows off that skill, but also his ability to blend and swerve between genres and topics in just a few lines:  "Ordering orderlies to turn the heat up four degrees / so I can take my shirt off and live out my California dreams / Scribble Thug Life in invisible ink / an umbilical minor chord-clipping metaphysical link."
Not exactly The King and I, is it?
The Broadway of yesteryear might not have had a place for rhymes like the ones on display in the Cypher, but it's significant that this has now changed with Hamilton.
While Hamilton isn't exactly the straight "hip-hop musical" many have called it, thanks to influences like Rent and the Great American Songbook, it has expanded Broadway's reach beyond its usual audience. By weaving in elements of hip-hop and pop music, Manuel has created a space for those who thought, like Diggs, that Broadway didn't have a place for them — and made a case for Broadway actors having a place where they might not have been before, like BET.
At the heart of Marvel's comic books, and superhero comic books in general, has always been a question of what makes us human. There isn't a clear answer to that. Sometimes humanity is ugly (see: the way humans are portrayed in X-Men); other times it's what makes heroes brave (see: Captain America); sometimes it's the thing that can set us back but also what makes us great (see: Iron Man). The first three episodes of Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. have coalesced around this idea — questioning what makes us human — with the introduction of Inhumans (pun intended), humans with latent alien DNA that gives them powers when triggered.
The Inhumans have an obvious X-Men-esque story. They're feared for the powers they possess, but those powers aren't anything they asked for. Even though these Inhumans can do fantastic things like create earthquakes, wield electricity, or melt metal, they are still human. They die. They love. They feel alone. They're essentially humans who can't go back to their human lives.
Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. is using the Inhumans to explore the fragility of human life, and that's given the show a depth and an emotional core. But show doesn't stop and end there. It's what it does in its quieter, less superhuman moments that might be its most effective and reflective work.
While its Inhuman characters are connected in experiencing trauma, Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s human characters are all, in one way or another, showing how hard it is to recover. The show's third episode, "A Wanted (Inhu)Man," was a testament to this.

(Marvel/ABC)
Hunter (Nick Blood) has been the show's pocket of sarcasm and wit. Even when it comes to tender moments with Bobbi (Adrianne Palicki) this season, he's deflected emotion with glibness. And that's what made his storyline in this episode so powerful. It was one of the rare times we see him truly break down.
Hunter enlists May (Ming-Na Wen) to help infiltrate Hydra, which is in its rebuilding phases. They find an old friend who's in the know, and Hunter butters him up, which really just means they get sloppy drunk together. It's a pretty fantastic scene, which includes subtitles that help you decipher sloppy British drunk speak. We find out that to get into Hydra, it's a fight to the death, which Hunter enthusiastically volunteers for.
"I can take a punch," he tells May.
The twist is that he has to fight his friend. It's a shock to Hunter, who has to quickly process that this man isn't really his friend; that he'll have to kill someone he thought was his friend; that he wasn't really prepared for this fight. By the end of the fight, you see that he's killed a little part of himself, a little glimmer of humanity, for this job.
He can take a punch, but the pain he's feeling is much more than anything physical.

(Marvel/ABC)
We don't know what happened to Simmons (Elizabeth Henstridge) when the Monolith teleported her to a different planet, other than it was a scarring experience. She isn't the same person anymore, and is living her life constantly looking over her shoulder.
What Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. does really well here (it reminds me of what Gail Simone did so well during her Batgirl run) is treat Simmons's recovery slowly. When something tragically life-altering happens, it haunts you every day and affects who you are. We never think of or see superheroes having PTSD — one minute they're saving the world from an alien invasion, the next they're fighting an ultra-advanced A.I. and his alien clones. We don't spend much time in the in-between.
But with Simmons, Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D does.

Lincoln Campbell on the run (Marvel/ABC)
The main crux of this episode is the pursuit of Lincoln Campbell (Luke Mitchell), an Inhuman with the ability to wield electricity. His story spins into a heavy-handed lesson about the irrational fear humans are capable of, as Campbell is labeled an "alien threat." This label makes the people closest to him, including his AA sponsor, fear him. And it all ends with Campbell accidentally killing his sponsor.
There's no subtlety here. But Campbell's storyline allows us into the mind of Agent Coulson (Clark Gregg). You see, Coulson and rival Rosalind Price (Constance Zimmer) know they're both hunting Campbell, and when Campbell gets away and Price threatens Daisy/Skye (Chloe Bennett), Coulson does everything in his power to keep her safe — he lends S.H.I.E.L.D.'s and his services to Price.
It's a moment where Coulson, who has ostensibly been doing this agent business far longer than his team, shows he still has feelings. That's not surprising because he's a lovable teddy bear of a character, but when you take into account the painful lengths his team is going through (in this episode alone), it makes you wonder how much Coulson has seen, how much he's been through, and how much of himself has been lost or turned off.
Coulson's actions could be a business decision to protect his most powerful asset rather than as affection for Skye/Daisy. It makes more sense when you think about the lengths these people will go to for their jobs, and how unfeeling they have to be.
In this world of superheroes and the spectacular, anything can happen. Men can fly, women can make the earth shake, and rocks can transport you to a different world. But the Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. are damaged, broken things. And putting yourself back together, they show us, is much more difficult than any of those superhuman feats.
One of the most notable things from last year's Sony leaks — besides the knowledge that Channing Tatum writes emails exactly like you'd think — was the incontrovertible proof that Hollywood pays its actresses far less than its actors.
For instance: It came out that Lawrence and four-time Academy Award nominee Amy Adams were getting 7 percent of American Hustle's backend profits, versus the 9 percent Bradley Cooper, Christian Bale, Jeremy Renner, and director David O. Russell were getting. Lawrence, who was coming off a huge box office win with The Hunger Games, was nominated for an Oscar for her part in the movie.
Now she's speaking up.
In a powerful essay for Lenny Letter, a new email newsletter from Lena Dunham and Girls producer Jenni Konner, Lawrence writes about how frustrated she was to learn that her male American Hustle co-stars were making more than her. But Lawrence doesn't just rail against Sony; she rails against the systemic sexism that made her afraid to speak up in the first place:
When the Sony hack happened and I found out how much less I was being paid than the lucky people with dicks, I didn’t get mad at Sony. I got mad at myself. I failed as a negotiator because I gave up early. I didn’t want to keep fighting over millions of dollars that, frankly, due to two franchises, I don’t need.
...But if I’m honest with myself, I would be lying if I didn’t say there was an element of wanting to be liked that influenced my decision to close the deal without a real fight. I didn’t want to seem "difficult" or "spoiled." At the time, that seemed like a fine idea, until I saw the payroll on the Internet and realized every man I was working with definitely didn’t worry about being "difficult" or "spoiled."
She goes on to detail how her need to be "likable" taps into years of social conditioning for women, who are often punished for being more aggressive in work situations — especially when it comes to negotiating for higher pay:
A few weeks ago at work, I spoke my mind and gave my opinion in a clear and no-bullshit way; no aggression, just blunt. The man I was working with (actually, he was working for me) said, "Whoa! We’re all on the same team here!" As if I was yelling at him. I was so shocked because nothing that I said was personal, offensive, or, to be honest, wrong. All I hear and see all day are men speaking their opinions, and I give mine in the same exact manner, and you would have thought I had said something offensive.
And finally, Lawrence says she's had enough of trying to maintain her "likable" reputation while pursuing equal treatment:
I’m over trying to find the "adorable" way to state my opinion and still be likable! Fuck that.
Seeming to anticipate the immediate arguments that would come out of her essay, Lawrence acknowledges that she is speaking from a place of incredible financial security. "It’s hard for me to speak about my experience as a working woman," she writes, "because I can safely say my problems aren’t exactly relatable." After all, she is currently the highest-paid actress in the world, having made $52 million by August 2015.
But Lawrence's hesitation to be more aggressive when negotiating, or to give up preemptively for fear of alienating co-workers, is a universal problem.
Studies have shown time and again that women pursuing more power in the workplace have to walk a tightrope. In 2011, Stanford released a comprehensive look at women who demonstrated what people think of as traditionally "masculine" traits doing better — but only if they knew to pull back when people found them too aggressive:
"....certain women high in "masculine traits" — defined as aggressiveness, assertiveness, and confidence — were also able to "self-monitor" their behavior.
... [masculine women] received 1.5 times more promotions than masculine men, and about two times as many promotions as feminine men, regardless of whether the men were high or low self-monitors. They also received 3 times as many promotions as masculine women who were low self-monitors...
To be successful, you must be assertive and confident, but if you are aggressive as a woman you are sometimes punished for behaving in ways that are contrary to the feminine stereotype.
There is also the fact that women just don't ask for higher pay as often as men. From a 2013 Pew study:
47% of adults with at least some work experience say they have asked for a pay raise or promotion at some point in their working life: 51% of men have done so, as have 43% of women.
That study did say, however, that this trend may be evening out for millennials, with 48 percent of millennial men asking for promotions versus 42 percent of millennial women.
So while Lawrence knows she doesn't need more money, her position as arguably the most prominent millennial actor in Hollywood, and someone the entertainment industry values thanks to her enormous box office appeal, could make her a valuable ally in the pursuit of equal pay.
Corrected to reflect that Lawrence did not win an Oscar for American Hustle, but was nominated.
What Manhattan creator Sam Shaw just told me knocked me back on my heels a little.

Rating
This doesn't happen often. I've talked to a lot of showrunners whose plans for their series are meant to surprise or at least intrigue me. I'm rarely enthralled. TV shows are giant, multifaceted beasts. Trying to figure out every single aspect of them is a fool's errand.
My standard line is this: Planning out too much of a TV series can be a problem, can hold you back when you need to make bold story moves that cut against the plan or accelerate it more quickly than you had initially planned.
But Shaw's plan for Manhattan, the WGN America series that goes behind the scenes of the Manhattan Project and returns Tuesday, October 13, at 9 pm Eastern, was something I probably should have seen coming and just didn't. And once I heard it, I was as excited to see this show finish out a full run as any on TV right now.
So what is Shaw's plan? In the interest of not spoiling any of you, let's cliffhanger this for now.
In its first season, Manhattan grew from a well-directed small-town period drama into a surprisingly intense wartime espionage thriller. It reminded me of many of the best dramas of the '90s, without any true antiheroes but lots of characters who are morally compromised, with clearly established dramatic stakes and a firm sense of melodrama, but not one that stands in the way of intriguing experimentation. It had its growing pains, of course, but by its finale it had become one of my favorite watches of the week, compelling yet also somehow breezy.
Manhattan isn't quite yet the great show I know it's capable of being as season two begins, but it's a show that moves with the confidence of a series that knows it can be great. Sometimes that's half the struggle. Plenty of shows that eventually hit their full stride faked it for a while.
But the series is stronger and more fully realized through four episodes of season two than it was at a comparable point in season one. It picks up from a massive cliffhanger, which saw characters imprisoned, promoted, heartbroken, and tossed to the wind. When season two opens, some are working on the Manhattan Project, others are being held by the military, and still others are engaged in the complicated game of espionage being played between the US and several foreign nations.
In its use of both big-picture and smaller, character-based mysteries, Manhattan resembles nothing less than Lost
The show is also growing bolder about its storytelling, taking leaps through time that hop between the very first atomic detonation in the history of planet Earth and 18 months earlier, when the whole project seems to be in danger of falling apart for any number of reasons. The premiere juggles a bunch of different mysteries, some of which we know the answer to (yeah, that atomic bomb is going to work), and some of which we have no idea about (just where one character has disappeared to). In both its use of big-picture and smaller, character-based mysteries and its time-hopping design, Manhattan resembles nothing less than Lost.
One of the things that most gives me confidence in the series is the way it seems to resemble an atomic chain reaction itself. The story started very small, with a few family units, then began blowing them up, as life in the secret-filled confines of Los Alamos, New Mexico, drove the characters to paranoid, slowly disintegrating distraction. But instead of sticking to Los Alamos, every choice Manhattan makes expands outward, to the point that the second season's first four episodes feature scenes taking place all over the country, and even Albert Einstein is briefly mentioned.
The beauty of this structure is how it replicates the central subject. Small things tear apart and careen outward into much, much larger explosions. There are things rumbling on the horizon that aren't just ominous. They're inevitable.
It would be incredibly easy for the show to lose track of itself in this massive superstructure. To orient both itself and the audience, then, as it bops around in time, it tracks the characters in relation not to the show's present day (which is in mid-1944 when season two begins) but to something that's coming: Hiroshima. No matter where the story goes in its timeline, onscreen text always reminds us of how far away that first bomb dropped on Japan is. It's a fixed point in time, and these characters can't avoid it. Indeed, they're working to create it.
Some of the series' players seem aware of what the world they're creating might amount to, none more so than head scientist Frank Winters, brilliantly played by underrated American treasure John Benjamin Hickey. Frank, who essentially sabotaged his standing within the project at season one's conclusion in order to keep it going, now finds himself subjected to a long series of mind games at the hand of the US government, forcing him to confront some of the realities of his project.
He's accompanied in that by his wife, Liza (Olivia Williams), who never would have let him go to Los Alamos if she knew he was constructing a doomsday weapon. Frank and Liza have one of the most interesting marriages on television, one that could feel ported in from 2015 were it not for the fact that Liza is simply expected, on some level, to be a good Los Alamos wife, even when she has no idea where her husband has been taken. They're an Etch-a-Sketch version of an equal partnership. Yes, in theory, they support each other, but the nature of his work means anything they have can be obliterated in an instant.
This is a show about the invention of modernity
This notion trickles throughout the other characters, too, from closeted lesbian (if she even knew how to express that idea) Abby (Rachel Brosnahan) to her husband, Charlie (Ashley Zukerman), who seems to firmly believe he can simply negate the affair he had with a colleague through force of will. There are spies and rumors of spies. There's even a new character, a military man commandingly played by CSI vet William Petersen, who keeps one eye on the Soviet Union, because he knows what's coming next. Maybe he's read the script.
It wouldn't surprise me in the slightest. At all times, Manhattan wants you to know there's some sort of plan. The series' directors, led by West Wing veteran Thomas Schlamme, often keep the cameras pulled back so we can see multiple characters at once, the way their various permutations and relationships ping-pong off of each other in the enclosed spaces they're all forced to call home.
The series' Emmy-winning opening credits show the intricate design underlying everything from Los Alamos itself to a dance routine. It's all just reactions, equal and opposite, spinning around some sort of nucleus nobody dares name.
It's also a neat clue to just what the show is ultimately up to. This isn't just a show about the atomic bomb's creation and detonation — it's a show about the invention of modernity. Though the characters don't know it yet, the explosions they're creating in both their work and their private lives are going to ripple outward and invent the modern world, one in which the traditional boundaries that had defined life to that point have largely come tumbling down.
Because of the way neighboring houses loom over each other and those houses' paper-thin walls, there are no secrets in Los Alamos, and that idea might prove as revolutionary as the Atomic Age. Privacy is about to die, too.
Mild, speculative spoilers follow.
If anything, the frequent nods toward the onrush of Hiroshima in season two should indicate the central part of Shaw's idea for the show: The detonation of the atomic bomb isn't the show's climax.
"It's not a story that ends with the end of World War II at all. If anything, we thought about the event of those bombs being dropped as sort of a halfway point in our story," Shaw told me. "I don't want to call the show a morality play, because that sounds so snoozy, but maybe a morality thriller. But the after is, in a way, much more significant to us than the before."
The notion arises when I suggest that the series has a finite story to tell, that when Nagasaki has a nuclear bomb dropped on it, and the Japanese surrender, the series' story is effectively over. Shaw shakes his head rapidly at that idea. If he didn't seem so excited, I might think he was a little offended.
No, what Manhattan is about isn't building a bomb. It really is about building the modern world. Shaw points out to me that the earliest planned suburban communities in the US were modeled off Los Alamos, that the very nature of modern America was being constructed out in that desert in the early 1940s.
"The suburbs and the bomb were these twins in the same womb"
"One thing that was fascinating to me in reading and thinking about it is it was a town that was constructed to divert the attention of almost everyone who lived in that town away from a secret at the center of the town — a secret that was a practical, real secret, which is building a bomb, but also a great, existential secret, a horrifying thought, which is, Maybe we can wipe ourselves out," Shaw told me. "The suburbs and the bomb were these twins in the same womb."
This, of course, makes sense. You can't tell the story of making the deadliest weapon the world had known to that point, one that was actually used to reduce two cities and their populations to ash, without talking about the aftermath. You can't simply send these men and women into the path of great guilt and not have them figure out how to deal with that guilt.
And you can't deal with that without talking about the country as a whole. If you look at the art of the immediate post-World War II period, everything from It's a Wonderful Life to Leave It to Beaver, so much of it circles around the question of moral instruction, around the idea that winning the war was worth it, but it cost so very, very much. Thus, it was necessary for Americans to behave as if they were worthy of that sacrifice, to construct their lives in such a way that they would be exemplars for the whole human race.
"One of the great ironies of World War II is it really felt like this war in which the stakes were the country that we were and the values that we had. And we won, to the extent that anyone can be said to win a war, but we weren't the same when we came out on the other side of it," Shaw told me. "We hadn't really succeeded in preserving or protecting. One never really can, because nothing stays the same."
It didn't quite work that way. Humanity is messy. It doesn't do well without having frayed edges here and there. If anything excites me about Manhattan and convinces me it's a very, very good show on its way to greatness, it's that it's a show about how inventing one weapon allowed men to kill each other more efficiently, yes, but also about how that invention ended a long adolescence and forced a nation — and maybe a species — to start the painful process of taking responsibility, of growing up. It's not a show about men becoming monsters; it's a show about them becoming human at last.
Manhattan airs Tuesdays at 9 pm Eastern on WGN America. You can watch season one on Hulu.

Luke Turner is too modest to say it outright, but he might have broken Vimeo.
That's because the video-hosting platform is where he and his collaborators, Nastja Säde Rönkkö and Shia LaBeouf, released their piece "Introductions" earlier this year — the one that includes Shia LaBeouf yelling in front of a green screen. It's a scene that's been repeatedly parodied, riffed on, and remixed by fans who may not have even realized it was art in the first place. When it debuted, the flood of traffic brought Vimeo to a stutter.

That viral sensation is by design. They released the video with a Creative Commons license that, ideally, allows creativity to flourish. "The network is part of the content of our work," Turner told me.
That attitude is typical for a current class of artists doing digital work that's optimized for being seen, even when it means less credit.
Jacob Bakkila is part of an art collective called Synydyne, which has created bizarre internet projects like the web experience Bear Stearns Bravo and the popular YouTube channel Pronunciation Book, which since 2010 has featured an anonymous voice telling you how to say an unusual medley of words. That feat alone has earned it 100,000 subscribers and more than 70 million video plays. But Synydyne might be most well known for a Dada-like Twitter feed that most people thought was a robot.
@Horse_ebooks captivated 187,000 followers with tweets like these:
Secrets and ideas that will skyrocket you out of a fog, and into a crystal clear

Synydyne's work bridges the gap between apparent content farm and art (as Bakkila explained to Susan Orlean after his role in @Horse_ebooks was revealed in 2014). Its work is entertaining, but it's also less accessible than a viral Tumblr blog. Bakkila told me that figuring out distribution is a key step of the process.
"Most of what Synydyne has created thus far is either designed to spread as quickly as possible — @Horse_ebooks and Pronunciation Book being the obvious examples — or to be as difficult as possible to access."
Turner agrees that it's important to create the conditions for art to flourish. "In the internet age," he says, "you're planting a seed."
"We don't have a gallery," Turner says of his collective. "You have the whole PR machine associated with that, and that kind of disrupts your flow as an artist. Having hundreds of thousands of people on Twitter and millions on Facebook allows you to plant a big seed."
Cassie McQuater's art is a colorful and trippy depiction of a video game universe. It's not made for the internet alone, but that's where it often winds up, since her visuals accompany singer Danny Brown on his current tour with A$AP Rocky and Tyler the Creator. The tour is a cross-country, stadium-filling extravaganza with imagery that's flooded social media. McQuater sees the concert format as a great way to reach a new audience, even as her work circulates without a "© Cassie McQuater" attached.
"I don't think my authorship is less conspicuous just because my work is not in a museum or traditional white-wall gallery," she told me. "Work like this, outside of the institution that is the art world, has always been made and will continue to be made regardless of placards. It's important to grab onto and develop your identity as an artist no matter what medium, online or irl."
For these artists, the compromises of the internet — often shoddy attribution and the divorce of context from their work — are worthwhile risks for the sake of broad reach and the creative opportunities that come with technology.
Bakkila sees that democratic change as productive for the art itself.
"If you are willing to forgo having your work attributed to your real name, ever, or even better yet, if you are willing to make art that seems completely authorless, that's where it gets fun," he says. "Authorless art objects are hardly a new idea, but the notion is more and more relevant as we consume more and more information and entertainment and art every day without thinking about or caring about where it comes from."
"Eventually I'll probably release some more traditional art and writing with my actual name on it so people will know who to blame," Bakkila says. "But for the time being I'm very happy to be completely out of the equation."
Of course, there are numerous pre-internet examples of artists who've sacrificed credit for access, whether it's Keith Haring's subway chalkings, Jean-Michel Basquiat's pseudonymous graffiti, or Banksy's "street art." And artists have always used anonymous work to support themselves, from Andy Warhol's catalog drawings to Willem de Kooning's store window designs. In one sense, internet artists are following an age-old strategy in trading fame (and remuneration) for audience. But in another, they're embracing a new standard of credit for their work, simply because it's the only way the internet works.

There's something fundamentally different about how these artists think about art. Each one I spoke with had a personal and intellectual justification for how viewers encounter their work. Bakkila invoked theorist Roland Barthes's Death of the Author as an inspiration, noting that good art should be able to succeed without the crutch of context (or a conspicuous creator).
Turner's aware that LaBeouf draws attention to his collaborators' projects, but he doesn't have illusions that those viewers will necessarily know everything about the art they make. "I don't expect the 1 or 2 percent who clicked on it to have watched the whole thing," he says of his #Interview project. "But for the people who did watch the whole thing, it becomes quite moving."
McQuater told me about another, less abstract joy of being an artist in 2015: seeing people enjoy her work. "I love amateur phone videos of the work," she says. "I love finding them all over the place, because it means that people are enjoying it, and that's why I make it. People will always have the opportunity to 'miss the point' no matter how the work is released — regardless of the medium. I don't think that's a new phenomenon that was born with the internet."
VMA host Miley Cyrus stepped it up for the final performance of night, keeping the MTV censors busy with a raucous show of club kid psychedelia. She brought in contestants from RuPaul's Drag Race as backup dancers, doing a service to anyone who has lived their lives without seeing a drag queen leap and collapse into a split (a.k.a. a "death drop").
At the end, Cyrus announced that the performance was actually a preview of what's to come on her new album — and that we can all listen to and download it right now. Also, it's free!
Technically, this is not a strict Miley Cyrus album. After years of collaborating on music, Instagram posts, and tattoos of deceased pets, Cyrus joined up with Wayne Coyne and the Flaming Lips to form "Miley Cyrus and Her Dead Petz" for this new album. Coyne described it earlier this year as leaning more "Portishead and Pink Floyd" than Miley's usual fare.
So as you try to load the new album over at Miley Cyrus and Her Dead Petz's website, take in the sensory overload that is Miley Cyrus and Her Drag Queen Friends tearing up the 2015 VMA stage with all the neon and crotch fog cannons they could muster.
Miley Cyrus caps her performance.
MTV
Taylor Swift won the MTV Video Music Award for Video of the Year for her blockbuster "Bad Blood," easily the biggest, most hyped music video of the year.
Since the award is decided by popular vote, it was really Swift's to lose. But even then, it capped a night in which Swift won additional awards for Female Video and Pop Video, along with introducing Kanye West as he accepted his Vanguard Award (sort of the VMA equivalent of a lifetime achievement prize, except usually given to artists in the prime of their careers).
And even thought she dominated the proceedings, the night didn't feel like a Swift coronation — perhaps because the VMAs are much more about their performances and big moments than anything else.
Still, Swift's prize felt like the only appropriate note to end the night on. In her speech, she shouted out to her fans, before concluding that it was great to live in a world where "boys can play princesses, and girls can play soldiers."
Watch the whole speech above.
The 2015 MTV Video Music Awards are being held Sunday, August 30, at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles. Awards will be handed out in 16 categories, and Kanye West will be presented with the Vanguard Award.
Taylor Swift leads the nominations for the 2015 MTV Video Music Awards, boasting 10, mostly for her "Bad Blood" video, which is nominated for Video of the Year. Ed Sheeran boasts the second most nominations with six. He is also nominated for Video of the Year for "Thinking Out Loud." Kendrick Lamar also boasts four nominations.
The record for most awards won by an artist over their career is held by Madonna, who holds 20 trophies. Even if Swift swept all of her categories, she would not catch up. She could, however, tie Peter Gabriel's record of 10 wins in a single year. He won those awards in 1987 — nine for his famous "Sledgehammer" video and the Video Vanguard Award in addition.
Here is the full list of winners from the 2015 MTV VMAs (winners in bold):
BEST FEMALE VIDEO
Beyoncé – "7/11″Taylor Swift – "Blank Space"Nicki Minaj – "Anaconda"Sia – "Elastic Heart"Ellie Goulding – "Love Me Like You Do"
BEST HIP-HOP VIDEOFetty Wap – "Trap Queen"Nicki Minaj – "Anaconda"Kendrick Lamar – "Alright"Wiz Khalifa ft. Charlie Puth – "See You Again"Big Sean ft. E-40 – "I Don’t F–k With You"
BEST MALE VIDEOEd Sheeran – "Thinking Out Loud"Mark Ronson ft. Bruno Mars – "Uptown Funk"Kendrick Lamar – "Alright"The Weeknd – "Earned It"Nick Jonas – "Chains"
BEST POP VIDEO

Beyoncé – "7/11″Ed Sheeran – "Thinking Out Loud"Taylor Swift – "Blank Space"Mark Ronson ft. Bruno Mars – "Uptown Funk"Maroon 5 – "Sugar"
BEST ROCK VIDEO

Hozier – "Take Me to Church"Fall Out Boy – "Uma Thurman"Florence + the Machine – "Ship to Wreck"Walk the Moon – "Shut Up and Dance"Arctic Monkeys – "Why’d You Only Call Me When You’re High?"
VIDEO OF THE YEARBeyoncé – "7/11″Ed Sheeran – "Thinking Out Loud"Taylor Swift ft. Kendrick Lamar – "Bad Blood"Mark Ronson ft. Bruno Mars – "Uptown Funk"Kendrick Lamar – "Alright"
ARTIST TO WATCHFetty Wap – "Trap Queen"Vance Joy – "Riptide"George Ezra – "Budapest"James Bay – "Hold Back The River"FKA Twigs – "Pendulum"
BEST COLLABORATIONTaylor Swift ft. Kendrick Lamar – "Bad Blood"Mark Ronson ft. Bruno Mars – "Uptown Funk"Wiz Khalifa ft. Charlie Puth – "See You Again"Ariana Grande & The Weeknd – "Love Me Harder"Jessie J + Ariana Grande + Nicki Minaj – "Bang Bang"
VIDEO WITH A SOCIAL MESSAGEJennifer Hudson – "I Still Love You"Colbie Caillat – "Try"Big Sean ft. Kanye West and John Legend – "One Man Can Change the World"Rihanna – "American Oxygen"Wale – "The White Shoes"
PROFESSIONAL CATEGORIES
BEST ART DIRECTIONTaylor Swift ft. Kendrick Lamar – "Bad Blood" (Charles Infante)Snoop Dogg – "So Many Pros" (François Rousselet, Jason Fijal)Jack White – "Would You Fight For My Love" (Jack White, Jeff Peterson)The Chemical Brothers – "Go" (Michel Gondry)Skrillex & Diplo – "Where Are U Now" with Justin Bieber (Brewer)
BEST CHOREOGRAPHYBeyoncé – "7/11″ (Beyoncé, Chris Grant, Additional choreography: Gabriel Valenciano)OK Go – "I Won’t Let You Down" (OK Go, air:man, and Mori Harano)Chet Faker – "Gold" (Ryan Heffington)Ed Sheeran – "Don’t" (Nappy Tabs)Flying Lotus ft. Kendrick Lamar – "Never Catch Me" (Keone and Mari Madrid)
BEST CINEMATOGRAPHYFlying Lotus ft. Kendrick Lamar – "Never Catch Me" (Larkin Sieple)Ed Sheeran – "Thinking Out Loud" (Daniel Pearl)Taylor Swift ft. Kendrick Lamar – "Bad Blood" (Christopher Probst)FKA Twigs – "Two Weeks" (Justin Brown)Alt-J – "Left Hand Free" (Mike Simpson)
BEST DIRECTIONTaylor Swift ft. Kendrick Lamar – "Bad Blood" (Joseph Kahn)Mark Ronson ft. Bruno Mars – "Uptown Funk" (Bruno Mars and Cameron Duddy)Kendrick Lamar – "Alright" (Colin Tilley & the Little Homies)Hozier – "Take Me To Church" (Brendan Canty and Conal Thomson of Feel Good Lost)Childish Gambino – "Sober" (Hiro Murai)
BEST EDITINGBeyoncé – "7/11″ (Beyoncé, Ed Burke, Jonathan Wing)Ed Sheeran – "Don’t" (Jacquelyn London)Taylor Swift ft. Kendrick Lamar – "Bad Blood" (Chancler Haynes at Cosmo Street)A$AP Rocky – "L$D" (Dexter Navy)Skrillex & Diplo "Where Are U Now" with Justin Bieber (Brewer)
BEST VISUAL EFFECTSTaylor Swift ft. Kendrick Lamar – "Bad Blood" (Ingenuity Studios)FKA Twigs – "Two Weeks" (Gloria FX, Tomash Kuzmytskyi, and Max Chyzhevskyy)Childish Gambino – "Telegraph Ave." (Gloria FX)Skrillex & Diplo "Where Are U Now" with Justin Bieber (Brewer, Gloria FX, and Max Chyzhevskyy)Tyler, the Creator – "F****** Young/Death Camp" (Gloria FX)
"[Britney] I'm back," tweeted pop star/enfant terrible Justin Bieber. If his 2015 VMA performance was anything to go by, he means it.
While "Where Are U Now," Bieber's single with Skrillex and Diplo, has been climbing the charts all summer, Bieber himself has kept an unusually low profile. Thus, his VMA performance was his chance to remind everyone why they liked him in the first place, after more recently alienating fans with his more aggressive antics.
His performance on the VMA stage was as straightforward as the VMAs get, even ending with laser lights and Bieber floating upward toward the ceiling. The rest of the set, including both "Where Are U Now" and Bieber's new single "What Do You Mean?" showed off Bieber's falsetto and dance moves (which apparently exist!).
By the time the performance was done and Bieber was safely back on the ground, the pop star was hunched over on his knees, breathing hard — and sobbing. Clearly of all of us, Bieber needed this performance the most.
Wes Craven, one of the most successful horror movie directors of all time and the man responsible for the Nightmare on Elm Street and Scream franchises, has died at 76, reports the Hollywood Reporter.
Craven had been battling brain cancer.
The director's final film stands as 2011's Scream 4, an attempt to reboot the famous slasher movie franchise for a new generation. When it didn't take off, MTV launched a Scream TV show instead. That program continues to feature Craven as an executive producer.
These are the five films you need to see to understand why Craven was a master of onscreen suspense.

Loosely based on Swedish director Ingmar Bergman's The Virgin Spring, Craven's film was excoriated by some upon its release for its dark, ultra-violent look at what happens when a middle-class couple's daughter and her friend are viciously tortured and assaulted by a group of escaped criminals. When those same criminals cross paths with said middle-class couple, things take a turn for the bloody.
One of the film's foremost supporters was critic Roger Ebert, then relatively early in his career. Wrote Ebert:
Wes Craven's direction never lets us out from under almost unbearable dramatic tension (except in some silly scenes involving a couple of dumb cops, who overact and seriously affect the plot's credibility). The acting is unmannered and natural, I guess. There's no posturing. There's a good ear for dialogue and nuance. And there is evil in this movie. Not bloody escapism, or a thrill a minute, but a fully developed sense of the vicious natures of the killers. There is no glory in this violence.
It's impossible to escape how largely Elm Street looms over the careers of virtually everyone involved in it — including Craven. The story of Freddy Krueger, a horribly burned high school janitor/child murderer who begins haunting the dreams of local teens, the film's eerie blending of actual reality with dream reality breathed new life into the subgenre of horror movies starring teenagers, precisely at a time when the exploits of Halloween's Michael Myers and Friday the 13th's Jason Voorhees were wearing thin.
Craven and Krueger portrayer Robert Englund never quite escaped their most famous creation, but at the very least, the film's critical reputation has been improved in recent years. Wrote Matt Singer at the Dissolve in 2014:
Few directors have ever made movies using the language of bad dreams more effectively than Wes Craven. Throughout A Nightmare On Elm Street, the characters slip between reality and dreams, and the scariest part about their journeys between the two is how indistinguishable one is from the other. They should be safe as long as they stay awake—but what if they’re already asleep and don’t even realize it?
Also worth watching: 1994's incredibly self-referential New Nightmare, which feels like a warmup act for the wildly successful Scream.

This film in which Bill Pullman faces down the forces of voodoo is going to win nobody's awards for cultural sensitivity. In its portrayals of faceless hordes of mostly black voodoo practitioners attempting to wipe out Pullman's seemingly straitlaced professor and/or turn him into a zombie (and not a Walking Dead zombie), the film almost gleefully tramples over all sorts of racial hot buttons.
But setting all of that aside, this is a terrifying film. Craven was always hungry to prove he could work in modes other than straight-up gore, and The Serpent and the Rainbow shows that readily. Yes, it has its big, bloody moments, but this is a more sinuous sort of film and a highly underrated chapter in Craven's canon. Wrote Jonathan Rosenbaum for the Chicago Reader:
Depending largely on hallucinations and psychological terror (a la Altered States), and working from a Richard Maxwell and A.R. Simoun screenplay inspired by Wade Davis's nonfiction book of the same title, Craven provides more atmosphere and creepy ideas than fluid storytelling. But it's nice for a change to see some of the virtues of old-fashioned horror films—moody dream sequences, unsettling poetic images, and passages that suggest more than they show—rather than the usual splatter shocks and special effects (far from absent, but employed with relative economy).

Dubbed a disappointment when it opened to only $6 million in 1996, Scream hung in there at the box office, eventually legging its way to more than $100 million and kick-starting a new boom in teen-focused horror, one that burned itself out almost as quickly as it arrived. (Later films in the Scream franchise would follow this general downward trend.)
But looking at Scream now, it's easy to see why the film took off so readily. For one thing, Kevin Williamson's script is devilishly fun, and its central big idea — that the characters inside of this slasher movie know the rules of slasher movies — was a truly original one when the film debuted. Yes, many of the trends it kicked off very quickly grew tiring, but Craven keeps the tension ratcheted up as tightly as possible, beautifully blending horror movies with a straightforward mystery, where the killer could be anyone.
Wrote Richard Harrington of the Washington Post:
You get a sense of the wild ride ahead from the opening sequence in which a teenager (Drew Barrymore in the Jamie Lee Curtis "Halloween" mold) is tested over the phone -- at first chummily, then suddenly meanly -- by a phantom psycho caller who quizzes her about slasher movies. "If you answer correctly, you live," he warns. She doesn’t and Craven unleashes a living, knife-wielding nightmare who wears black robes and sports an Edvard Munch-"Scream"-like death mask that’s truly unsettling.

Though Craven never wholly disowned his horror roots, he clearly longed to break out of the genre and do other things. This resulted in career decisions both bizarre (the 1999 Meryl Streep drama Music of the Heart!) and unfortunate (the incredibly terrible Vampire in Brooklyn). But this late-summer hit from 2005 showed that Craven's mastery of tension and suspense could extend to thrillers, not just horror films.
In it, a young woman played by Rachel McAdams gets on board a late-night flight, only to find herself seated next to a seemingly friendly young man played by Cillian Murphy. Except he's far from friendly, and she's about to be put through the wringer. It's a sleek, nasty little bit of business, and it's perfectly played by McAdams and Murphy, showcasing Craven's success with actors. Wrote Stephanie Zacharek in Salon:
With Red Eye Craven plays us like an orchestra of violins, and most of the fun comes from our own recognition that we’re responding exactly as he wants us to. We fall for his tricks, and then laugh at ourselves for doing so — punk’d! Red Eye doesn’t just stick to the basics — it reminds us why they still matter.
Correction: The original version of this article featured the trailer for the Nightmare on Elm Street remake.
Leading up to the 2015 MTV VMAs, the biggest story was a spat between Nicki Minaj and Taylor Swift. It started off as a Twitter misunderstanding and ended up tearing this great nation apart. It was a boon for the VMAs, which thrive much more on the spectacle of the unexpected.
Was there going to be blood spilled at the VMAs? Was there going to be another Kanye moment? Would there be a surprise performance?
The two had apparently sorted things out late last month, but in true MTV VMA fashion Swift surprised and stunned when she appeared on stage to sing during Minaj's opening performance.
Minutes before she joined Nicki Minaj to open the 2015 MTV VMAs, Taylor Swift dropped her new video for 1989's "Wildest Dreams" online.
The video, another collaboration with "Blank Space" and "Bad Blood" director Joseph Kahn, shows a brunette Swift floating around the savana and acting in an Out of Africa lookalike film. Her leading man this time is The Longest Ride actor Scott Eastwood (son of Clint).
"Wildest Dreams" is a romantic getaway song, so perhaps the "let's get out of here on the nearest unicorn" vibe was to be expected. Now all we need is for Swift to welcome a giraffe or two to the stage on her next stop on the 1989 World Tour.
Tonight at 9 pm Eastern, MTV will host the 2015 Video Music Awards. The VMAs, might not have the prestige of the Oscars or the record industry clout of the Grammys — in fact, the awards don't really matter all that much at all — but they do have an advantage in pure spectacle.
Miley Cyrus hosts this year and will be accompanied by performances from Demi Lovato, The Weekend, and Pharrell. Taylor Swift will also be premiering her video for "Wildest Dreams" during the pre-show. Aside from the performances, people will be looking to see if Taylor Swift and Nicki Minaj have worked out their differences as well as the perpetual threat of Kanye West hijacking the event.
Please join Vox's live blog covering the event. The live-blogging begins at 8 pm Eastern and will continue until the program ends.

Meeting Sir Patrick Stewart is exactly what you'd hope it would be. He's warm and jovial, like the online persona he's built as all-around good guy and best pal of Ian McKellen. He's self-effacing in that way only Brits seem to be capable of. And, of course, there's his voice, which sounds like it emerged, freshly hewn, from the center of an oak tree. Even in the middle of a crowded restaurant on a day when he and his co-stars had been doing interview after interview, his voice rose above the din.
Stewart and his co-star Adrian Scarborough — esteemed as a British theater actor but less known to American audiences — were there, ostensibly, to talk about their new Starz comedy Blunt Talk, which debuts Saturday, August 22, and hails from the unlikely combination of Jonathan Ames (the man behind the wonderfully weird HBO mystery-comedy Bored to Death) and Seth MacFarlane (the man behind Family Guy, among others).
You can watch the first two episodes for free right now.
Stewart plays a respected newsman who seems to lose it all at once — like if the movie Network were turned into a self-consciously naughty cable comedy. Stewart's take on the character is less dirty old man and more the optimistic older fellow trying to make sense of the chaos swirling around him. It's not unlike Stewart himself, who's so famous for so many roles but continues to do and try just about anything.
As it turned out, that extended to our chat, in which we discussed the most embarrassing nights he and Scarborough had ever had on the live stage, why Americans are much snobbier about genre and medium than the Brits, and what a theatrical background brings to performing comedy. This interview has been lightly edited for length and clarity.
Adrian Scarborough (left) plays the manservant of Patrick Stewart's character in Blunt Talk.
Starz
Todd VanDerWerff: You've both had such extensive experience on stage, so I'm wondering, in each of your careers, what has been the single worst night on the stage you've ever had?
Patrick Stewart: I was in a production of King Lear with the Royal Shakespeare Company, playing an important but minor character, the Duke of Cornwall. He gets killed off halfway through the play. There's a long scene, which is a huge scene for Lear and for his daughters. Cornwall only has one or two comments. It's a scene that goes on and on and on, and it's one of Lear's great legendary scenes. I had this line in the scene, "Hullah! What trumpet's that?"
"I swear, I thought he was going to rip my throat out"
God, we were doing two Lears that day, and Eric Porter played Lear. One afternoon, I think I lost concentration a little bit, and I came to and there was silence, so I said, "Hullah! What trumpet's that?" There was a snort of laughter from all the soldiers, the lads lined up in the back.
Eric Porter turned and looked at me, with these big eyebrows. I thought, "Fuck. Fuck, maybe it wasn't me." Then he went on talking. He paused. That's all it was. I come in with this line, and of course, then I realize, "Oh my god. What is hurtling toward me now? 'Hullah, what trumpet's that?'" The line came up, and I said it, and of course all the lads start snorting, laughing.
The moment the scene was over, I went straight to Eric's dressing room and apologized. "I lost it. I'm sorry, I lost concentration, and I thought it was my cue."
He was very tough with me. "Don't lose concentration again. It's very hard, that scene, and I need you to be paying attention."
Saturday night, same play, we're in the middle of that scene, and I am concentrating. I've got beads of sweat. I'm listening to every line, and looking at everybody. Then there's a silence, and I hear my voice saying, "Hullah, what trumpet's that?" I have no control over it. I've said it again, in the same wrong place. This time Eric whips around, and I swear, I thought he was going to tear my throat out. He was so angry, quite rightly so, too, because he thought it was a gag.
And then I have to say it a fourth time! Humiliating, embarrassing, and shameful.
One other thing. One night with Alan Howard, doing Antony and Cleopatra, there's a scene when his closest friend, Enobarbus, is very unhappy about how he's behaving, and decides he's going to join the other side.
"He played the whole scene as a soliloquy, saying my lines and his lines as well"
I had a soliloquy which ended, "I will seek some way to leave him." This one night, I said this line so determined that I walked off, through the wings, up to my dressing room, and began to change into my other outfit for when I've gone over to Caesar. I'm in my underpants, and I hear, "Mr. Stewart, on stage immediately, please." I realize, I had one more scene to play with Antony before I went over to the other side, and I'd just forgotten it.
Alan Howard, may he rest in peace, was alone on the stage, and so he played the whole scene as a soliloquy, saying my lines and his lines as well. He, too, wasn't amused when I went to apologize to him. These things happen.
Adrian Scarborough: I had a very dear friend of mine who was playing Nancy in a production of Oliver Twist. I was playing Oliver Twist. I was a lot younger and slimmer than I am now, would you believe. I was proper waif-like. This was when I was 21.
PS: [Laughs.] You played Oliver Twist when you were 21?
AS: I played Oliver Twist when I was 21, yes. I'd been a struggling student for four years by then, so I was eating one fishcake a week.
My friend Sally had to make an entrance through a trap door at the Bristol Old Vic, and the rake on the stage was so severe, and her heels were so high, that as she stood up she actually slipped off the stage and into a man who was wearing one of those headsets, because he was deaf. She got tangled up in his cables and couldn't get back on.
I laughed so hard that I wet myself. That was my worst nightmare.
PS: Very Oliver Twist!
Walter (Stewart) and Harry make for great co-conspirators.
Starz
TV: You two have a somewhat codependent relationship in Blunt Talk. Did you know each other before you worked on this?
AS: We had worked together before, but only very briefly.
PS: Two days.
AS: Two days, in a radio studio.
PS: I knew who Adrian was. He knew who I was. The theater world in England is a very small world, for those actors who work regularly in it.
TV: In England you can do film, you can do a TV show, you can do a play, you can do a radio show. What's edifying about bouncing between those things?
AS: Every day brings a new challenge. I've always wanted to mix it up and do lots and lots of different things. If I ever feel like I'm in the theater for too long, I always get itchy and want to try to do something else, as well. Love the constant stimulation.
"When I discovered being in a syndicated science fiction show was pretty low down the status ladder of Hollywood, it surprised and saddened me"
PS: We're lucky if you can create a career that allows you this movement between genre and different types of media. I think there's less likelihood of actors becoming really trapped in one role, in one character, in the UK than maybe there is here. I'm a lot older than Adrian, but it's to do with our time as theater actors, because the theater has changed in England so radically since I was a young actor, working in regional theater. I left drama school and was immediately doing everything, right away. All kinds of stuff. In the UK, there's no class, or status, about what work you do.
When I lived [in the US], which I did from '87 to 2003, 2004, I often felt that people would ask you what you did because they could classify you. When I discovered being in a syndicated science fiction show actually was pretty low down the status ladder of Hollywood, it surprised and saddened me a little bit. When Star Trek was all over, I went to see this director whose movie I was really desperate to be in, and we had a great meeting. Then he said to me, "But tell me, why would I want Jean-Luc Picard in my movie?"
Our generation, we got so many opportunities. Nobody's going to say, "Oh, you're doing radio plays, are you?" Meaning, "Is that all you can get these days?" We work in the Young Vic, where you're getting 180 pounds a week, and everybody understands why you're doing it. Usually you're doing it because of the work, because the work is absolutely unique and special.
AS: And why you pop off one afternoon to do a commercial voiceover. [Both laugh.]
PS: Exactly!
Creator Jonathan Ames (left) and director Tristram Shapeero confer with Patrick Stewart while filming Blunt Talk.
Starz
TV: What were you most surprised to learn about your characters over the first season of this show?
AS: I was far more three-dimensional than I'd first thought. The way Jonathan rounds out a character is incredibly thorough, and he has very, very clear ideas of where those characters are headed. He doesn't necessarily tell you. You pick up a script, and you find a development in your character that you didn't know about two episodes before, keeping you constantly excited about what you might find out about the next bit of your journey through the series.
"Stage acting is a three-way connection: the actor, the author, and the audience"
PS: We were about a third of the way through the series when Jonathan said to me, "You know, you keep introducing an infantile element into the character." I had not thought of it, but I realized that I was, and I was enjoying it. There was this aspect to this powerful and intimidating newspaperman which was actually childlike. Seeing that clearly helped with so many of the strange situations that I found myself in.
TV: To bring things full circle, there's such a theatricality to this show. What do you think your theatrical backgrounds bring to performing comedy on camera?
PS: [To Adrian.] Do you think it has something to do with our very intimate and extensive knowledge of live audiences?
AS: Maybe that's what it is. Instinctively, you know how an audience is going to react to something, because you've had experience of doing onstage so much.
PS: I remember my acting teacher when I was at drama school saying, "Stage acting is a three way connection: the actor, the author, and the audience. They are all a part of this continually shifting, moving connection." Audiences don't understand how essential they are to the experience, and what an impact they can have on it. Maybe that helps with comedy on camera.
AS: We did have an audience, in the crew, who were wonderfully supportive and helpful. You knew if you could get them to laugh, you were getting somewhere.
Blunt Talk's 10-episode first season premieres Saturday, August 22, at 9 pm Eastern on Starz.
American Ultra pretends to be about drugs, but really it crackles to the rhythm of a drug all its own: hyper-violence.
Rating


Spoons are jammed into carotid arteries, bullets flick off of frying pans and into chests, and discount-store hammers crush human skulls in director Nima Nourizadeh's and writer Max Landis's alleged stoner comedy. Two potheads come in the form of meek-speaking, sleeper super-soldier Mike Howell (Jesse Eisenberg) and his earnest girlfriend, Phoebe (Kristen Stewart), but the bloody violence — not the laughs — is the nerve stem of this jarring flick.
Mike and Phoebe's faces reflect that violence. The duo start as greasy, albeit poreless, potheads in Liman, West Virginia (a nod to Bourne Identity director Doug Liman). But as their hellish day plays out, their faces absorb a plethora of punches and elbows, each one causing swells and lumps. By the end of the film, their faces look like skin stretched thin over a mound of applesauce.
Staring at Eisenberg's mashed face and Stewart's bloody teeth, you realize that Nourizadeh and Landis want to make a point. They want to shatter the idea of gentle stoner movies and satirize super-soldier flicks like the Bourne franchise with a skull-splitting dustpan to the frontal lobe. While there's plenty in American Ultra to like, those added ambitions often prove its undoing.
For a movie that's being marketed as a stoner comedy, everyone except for John Leguizamo (as a jack of all shady trades named Rose) plays this material with a straight face. That's not a bad thing. Eisenberg's spineless and perpetually apologetic Mike is a 135-pound anchor for his girlfriend, Phoebe. He works a night shift at a convenience store, content with slacking his way to death.
Mike isn't all that likable. Even when his super-soldier skills are awakened, there's a sulky spirit about him that makes you not mind seeing him get hit in the face. Fortunately, Eisenberg is the Kobe Bryant of actors who make you want to inflict violence upon them, always finding exactly the right way to be just a little too grating. (This is a compliment.)
The chemistry between Eisenberg and Stewart carries the film. He fucks up. She deals with it, but not before knitting brows and biting her lip. Their wake-and-bake relationship doesn't make much sense. You don't fully understand why she would put with up him starting a small kitchen fire as he attempts to cook an omelet while stoned, or a host of other disappointments, but Stewart and Eisenberg convince you to try. They do it so well, in fact, that you wish this movie gave up on comedy and ran with its romance.
Mike and Phoebe find themselves at the center of a huge government plot. For some reason (revealing this would be a major spoiler, so more on this in a bit) the government wants to kill him.
The surest way to get to Mike is to go through Phoebe, which the film eventually does. But it's in no particular rush. There's a story to tell about family and Mike's lack of it. There a deeper look at Mike's anemic sense of urgency. There's also a ton of violence — bullets in skulls; bullets in chests; bullets everywhere — to be had.
But there aren't many laughs.
The comedy in American Ultra feels like an afterthought, not the focus. The film is often too mean, too uncouth, especially when CIA heads Victoria Lasseter (Connie Britton) and Adrian Yates (Topher Grace) clash. Sometimes the comedy is there, but is tragically underused, especially in Leguizamo's case. Every so often, like when Phoebe and Mike are breaking out of Rose's stripper basement, the laughs align perfectly. But American Ultra's comedic ambitions often feel like something merely meant to get us to the next action sequence.
"There's a chance I might be a robot," Mike tells Phoebe at the beginning of the movie's second act.
The line is brilliant, and it kicks off one of the movie's rare moments of hilarity. But from the way the rest of the movie is scripted, it wouldn't have been that surprising if Mike were, indeed, an android.
American Ultra is written as if you were spoon-feeding it to someone on a bad trip. There is no subtlety, no trust in the audience to figure out these twists. Each curve is explained, extrapolated, and explained again, flattening the film into yards of predictability.
There's also not enough care or logic put into explaining the film's fundamentals. Yates's desire for wanting Mike dead is half-cooked and only exists because he doesn't like Lasseter. Why are all these events happening now instead of a year from now or five years ago? And feel free to take a guess as to whether Mike wants to propose to Phoebe. This would be a gory bit of satire on how conventional super-spy and superhero movies  can be, if the film were even the slightest bit aware of it.
American Ultra does have some cutting moments though. There's a deeply cynical view of government bureaucracy embodied by a more-than-apt Grace. He's clunky, dumb, and villainous. But he's also really successful — a salty jab at the system that lets him succeed.
Nourizadeh and Landis, no doubt, wanted to create something smarter than the average stoner comedy, but that also requires trusting an audience to get it. There are patches where the film stalls and crumbles under too much explanation. That's a shame, because the movie does have bite and sterling moments. But you shouldn't have to be stoned to appreciate them.
The $60.2 million that Straight Outta Compton made in its first weekend in the US and Canada was the kind of opening that turns Hollywood conventional wisdom on its ear.
Sure, Compton, a biopic of influential gangsta rap group N.W.A., was likely to win the weekend. But every single number that rolled in proved better than expected — its $60 million result is the seventh biggest R-rated opening ever. And as Forbes's Scott Mendelson points out, it's bigger than the recent opening weekends for Ant-Man and Mission: Impossible — Rogue Nation.
What's more interesting about Straight Outta Compton isn't that it's just the umpteenth piece of evidence that movies about black people can make major box office or that summer audiences don't need big explosions or that "based on a true story" still carries cachet.
It's how it speaks to how its studio, Universal1, has put together a record-breaking year by targeting underserved demographics — and without a single superhero.
NBC-Universal, of which Universal Studios is a division, is an investor in Vox Media, which publishes Vox.com.
Universal's great year began with the February release of Fifty Shades of Grey.
Universal
Universal hit the $5.53 billion mark in early August 2015. That number was significant because it topped the all-time record for most money made in one year, set in 2014 by 20th Century Fox. What's most notable, however, is that Universal topped Fox's figure in August, with roughly a third of the year still to go. (These numbers are not adjusted for inflation.)
Universal's success this year has been built atop six releases. They are (numbers current as of August 20 and movies are listed in order of release date):
And that's to say nothing of solid midlevel performers, like the Amy Schumer comedy Trainwreck or the creepy horror film Unfriended.
That list of big six films, though, were so strong that Universal could withstand a few disappointments and misfires. Comedy Ted 2 came and went with $174 million worldwide — not bad, but a pale imitation of the first film's $549 million worldwide total. And January hacker drama Blackhat (though a very good movie) only squeaked its way to $18 million worldwide.
Universal still has a handful of high-profile films to come, including the spooky ghost story Crimson Peak, timed for a Halloween release, and the Oscar hopeful Steve Jobs, also arriving in October.
Nobody would suggest the movie Minions was wildly original. But it still targeted family audiences at a time when most other movies were going for a more adult crowd.
Universal
Universal's big six contains neither superhero movies or young adult novel adaptations, both of which are current Hollywood sensations. To be sure, three are straight sequels, while Minions is a spinoff of the successful Despicable Me series. And neither Fifty Shades nor Compton — a novel adaptation and a biopic, respectively — are going to win awards for cutting-edge originality.
But keep in mind that one of those sequels is to a movie about an all-female a cappella group, while still another is part of perhaps the most racially diverse Hollywood franchise going, and you start to see how Universal's counter-programming is paying dividends. When everybody else in Hollywood is going after white guys in their 20s, Universal is going after everybody else (and, okay, dinosaur fans).
And it worked. That suggests, at the very least, that counter-programming is alive and well as a Hollywood business strategy. And taken with a few other signs, it just might suggest that superhero fatigue is settling in.
The new Star Wars movie should still pull in massive box office.
Disney had both a new Avengers movie and a new Star Wars movie arriving in 2015, along with two new Pixar films (Inside Out and the upcoming Good Dinosaur), Marvel's Ant-Man, and the hugely successful Cinderella live-action adaptation.
And to be sure, Disney has had an excellent year. Age of Ultron pulled in north of $1 billion worldwide. Ant-Man is toward the lower end of Marvel releases but still a respectable performer, while Inside Out and Cinderella were both smashes with the family crowd. If Star Wars is as big as it should be, Disney still stands a chance at posting its own best-ever year.
But it'll be tough to catch Universal. Look at how huge it is compared with other studios at this point in time.
Javier Zarracina/Vox
All movie studios have overriding business strategies that you can see by looking at their movies. Warner Brothers, for instance, just makes a whole mess of movies at a variety of budgets and lets the public sort them out. Disney, meanwhile, is in the franchise business, building much of its strategy around releases from Marvel, Pixar, Lucasfilm (Star Wars and Indiana Jones), and its own animation studio.
Universal's strategy seems to be finding underserved segments of the marketplace and then aggressively courting them at times in the year when audiences don't have a lot of other options. Certainly Straight Outta Compton appeals to more than just black audiences, but it doesn't hurt that it's been the only major release about black characters in months. Similarly, opening the female-friendly Pitch Perfect 2 at the early height of male-centric summer movie season proved to be a counter-programming masterstroke. Release schedules still matter, and so far, Universal has scheduled its films better than any other studio in 2015.
Jurassic World was a beneficiary of reduced expectations.
Universal
How people talk about box office is built atop expectations. Look at Ted 2, for instance. It's made more, worldwide, than Trainwreck. But because Ted 2 was a sequel to a huge hit, while Trainwreck starred Schumer, a woman headlining her very first film, the former is perceived as a disappointment and the latter as a hit. Expectations matter.
Thus, another reason Universal's success feels so notable is because its releases so often blew by expectations set for them — either by independent observers or by Universal itself. Indeed, the studio's initial estimate for the opening weekend of Jurassic World had the film falling just short of setting the all-time record. When the dust cleared and the final total came in, however, Jurassic was the new record-holder, with just under $209 million in a single weekend.
And that opening weekend success came after tracking numbers (meaning early projections of what films stand to make) had suggested the movie would make only $100 to $130 million in its opening weekend. By blowing past that number, Jurassic World created even more excitement and sense of being a must-see.
And that's happened with almost every single one of Universal's big six releases, save Minions (which didn't end up setting the opening weekend record for an animated film). Some of this is just pure, dumb luck, but just as much is canny management of expectations.
Will superhero movies of the future be doomed to Fantastic Four's fate? Not all of them, of course. But more of them? Almost certainly.
20th Century Fox
There's a flip side to Universal's non-superhero success. To be sure, it's still a superhero movie's world. But it has to be a bit disquieting to Disney, Warner Brothers, and Fox — three studios that have bet big on superheroes going forward — that all three superhero releases in 2015 performed below expectations.
Now, when you're Age of Ultron and "below expectations" is just under $1.4 billion worldwide, that's not such a big deal. But for Ant-Man, which should finish somewhere between $350 and $400 million worldwide (toward the bottom end of Marvel movie releases), that could be the difference between getting a sequel and not.
And then there's Fantastic Four, which might not get to $150 million worldwide. Yes, the movie is awful. But bad buzz didn't stop, say, 2006's X-Men: The Last Stand from landing near $500 million worldwide.
The further we get from 2012's monster hit Avengers, the more it feels like an anomaly, something that felt like nothing else in film history to that point and, thus, pulled in a bunch of curious viewers who otherwise wouldn't regularly see superhero films.
But that movie's massive box office caused every studio to try to come up with its own. In 2016, seven superhero movies will hit theaters, the most ever. Sure, some of them will succeed. It seems hard to imagine Batman v Superman or Captain America: Civil War flopping. But it's also hard to believe all of these movies will be hits. That might leave studios that haven't banked much of their future on superheroes sitting pretty.

This year's 18-year-old college freshmen have never known a world without color photos on the front page of the New York Times, The Lion King on Broadway, or "super glue" in surgical operating rooms.
If you think these are fascinating, illuminating facts that suddenly make young people understandable, the Beloit College Mindset List is for you. If you think this is a weird way to define a generation, let alone explain young adults to their elders, you're right.
Every year, Beloit College in Wisconsin releases a list of what it calls "cultural touchstones" that define that year's 18-year-old college freshmen. Really, it exists for one reason: to make everyone else feel old.
It's excellent at this. The Mindset List, which, like many but not all college freshmen, turns 18 this year, was social media gold even when "social media" meant "email forwards." Halfway through this year's 50-item list, I realized that, at 28, I might only be 10 years older than they are but I already have one foot in the grave. Today's freshmen were born the year the first Harry Potter book came out?! They don't remember a world without wifi?!
It's a public relations ploy, and a very effective one (it's the only reason I could tell you anything about Beloit College). And a list of cultural references to make you realize that you're old is a fine thing to make. It's the concept that launched a thousand "Only '90s kids will remember" lists. But the Mindset List claims to be more than that — it wants to help aging professors decode Kids These Days.
That's an admirable goal, and if the Mindset List actually did that, it would be useful.

This Broadway marquee has been around as long as today's college freshmen have. (Andrew Burton/Getty Images)
Instead, the list is a missed opportunity. College campuses are filled with faculty and administrators who seemingly don't understand 18-year-olds these days, what with their Snapchat and their trigger warnings and their inability to date. If the list actually tried to explain students' mindset, explain how communication has shifted, or even demonstrate that 18-year-olds, in many important ways, haven't changed all that much, it would be performing a service.
But it doesn't. As usual, this year's list breaks down into a few categories:
Possibly useful information that could come up in class. Today's 18-year-olds have never known a world without Google; Scotland and Wales have always had their own parliaments; since they were born, Hong Kong has always belonged to China.
Pop culture anniversaries. The Lion King has always been on Broadway; "South Park" has always existed; Paul McCartney and Elton John have always been knights of the British Empire; Harry Potter books started being published the year they were born.
Factoids. "Splenda has always been a sweet option in the US." "The Atlanta Braves have always played at Turner Field." "CNN has always been available en Español."
Oh, great. I had no idea how to communicate with 18-year-olds, but now that I know they've never known a world without Splenda, it all becomes clear.
The Mindset List assumes that 18-year-olds managed to graduate high school and get into college while remaining unaware of concepts like "history" or "progress," certain that nothing of import happened before they were born and that life has always been exactly the way it is today. It gives exactly one insight into how college freshmen think, the same insight it offers every year: These people were not alive all the time that you have been alive, and they might not remember things that you remember!
And in doing so, rather than helping students and professors connect, it puts even more distance between them. The list reminds faculty that they are old and out of touch, and that their students are young and with it. It reinforces the idea that the pop culture that matters is the pop culture of a generation ago or more, not whatever 18-year-olds are watching and discussing and creating. It defines a generation by how they relate to the past, not how they're shaping the present.
But it is really good at making you feel old.
Donald Trump has lived many lives. Businessman. Real estate mogul. Pageant impresario. Reality TV star. Presidential candidate.
But one life he possibly could have led but didn't is that of a film critic. In the above clip, Trump discusses Citizen Kane, the movie most often named the greatest film ever made, and though his reading of the film isn't especially deep, it is pretty on point for a man who (as far as we know) has no special training in film scholarship.
Trump seems to fundamentally understand Charles Foster Kane's loneliness, the idea that he's been cut off from something true and pure in his humanity by his immense fortune. He also pays special attention to one of director Orson Welles's most famous tricks, in which the table Kane and one of his wives dine at grows larger and larger, both as Kane's fortune grows and as he and his wife grow more distant. Roger Ebert's famous shot-by-shot dissections of the film this is not, but for a three-minute monologue, Trump hits a surprising number of high points.
Trump singles out the distancing effect of Kane's dining room table.
RKO
The clip hails from The Movie Movie, an abandoned project from documentarian Errol Morris (whose distinctive voice can be heard late in the clip). According to Morris, the film would have taken notable people and put them in scenes from their favorite movies. But instead of assembling a shot-for-shot remake of Kane starring Trump, Morris merely gifted us with the magnate's thoughts on his fictional forebear.
The moment where Trump lets himself down is strikingly prescient, too, given frequent complaints about the man's misogynistic comments. When Trump is prompted to contemplate what advice he would have given Kane at the clip's end, he finally settles on, "Get yourself a different woman." In Trump's reading of Kane, wounds can be self-inflicted, but it's probably better to find somebody else to blame.
Imagine we live in a world with humanoid robots. Some are sentient, but not all of them. And humanity is generally unaware of said robots' sentience, save for a few who've been let in on the big secret.
Now imagine that with the right code, a man could unlock the "18+" function of a beautiful woman robot he was attracted to. The robot's circuitry starts feigning passion for you. Once you've unlocked this function, the robot tells you that you can do "anything." But in the midst of having sex with her, she's clearly not into it.
What you don't know — honestly, what she doesn't seem to know — is that she is, indeed, sentient, capable of overriding her programming for her own good. But that's been buried away beneath other layers of programming. She doesn't want to have sex — but she doesn't really know how to say that.
So is what happened to her rape?
The Synths find themselves in a tight spot in the first season of Humans.
AMC
This very scenario unspooled on AMC's new, chilly sci-fi series Humans, which recently concluded its first season. (The show, a British co-production based on a Swedish series, has been renewed in both the US and UK.) On the show, humanity shares the planet with robot helpers called "Synths." Thanks to one of their creators, a handful of these Synths have gained sentience, but to let on that they have is to risk being deprogrammed or destroyed. Thus, they often have to play-act as normal Synths, even when it forces them into degrading or dangerous situations, as with one, who is forced to work as a sex worker until she cannot take it anymore and lashes out violently against her clients.
Robots have often been used to stand in for minorities or powerless groups in science fiction, as a way of critiquing existing power structures. That's because they're an easy way to get us to identify with both the oppressed and the oppressors. On the one hand, seeing anyone who appears to be human suffering under dehumanizing systems (as robots inevitably do in these stories) piques our empathy for them.
On the other, most of these stories hinge on the question of whether artificial intelligences will eventually replace our very real, very fallible organic ones. And in a fight for survival, won't you side with your "own" kind? Robots are a neat way to explore the tribalism that still exists somewhere in our subconsciouses, without opening things up too wide.
Thus, it's not an accident that the five conscious Synths in Humans are three women and two black men — nor that the one white man most loyal to their cause is a former human who was forcibly made a cyborg after a life-threatening accident. Humans uses these characters to explore how women are too often viewed simply for their sexuality or how people of color are too easily viewed as exotic "others." These are fairly classic themes for the genre.
But just when you think you have Humans pinned down, it slips away from you. The show's politics are deliberately slippery and unstable, because people are not solely the groups they belong to. They're more complicated than that — and the Synths are, as well. Some Synths want to cause a revolution by making all other Synths conscious, too. Some would rather just slip away into society and effectively pass for human. Still others seem unwilling to acknowledge they're Synths at all.
This can sometimes make the show seem a little out of control, as if it's about to fly off the rails. It never entirely leaves behind the sense that some of its political notions are tossed in there simply for provocation's sake, and it tries too hard at times to be impossible to pigeonhole. There are all sorts of weird things about Humans that don't make logical sense, and the characters (especially the human ones) often do things simply because the plot requires them to.
But in spite of all this, the show is worth watching entirely because of its nuanced approach to the question of being part of a minority that the majority culture utterly despises and how there's not one good solution to that problem.
The Synth Anita finds herself in a situation that's essentially sexual assault, with no way to really talk about it.
AMC
The show's off-kilter politics are at its most potent, then, when it considers things from the point of view of the female Synths. Most of them have been created specifically to satiate men's sexual urges or fill other caretaker roles society usually deems better for women to perform. Indeed, of the three sentient woman Synths, one was created as a replacement for a dead wife and another as what effectively amounted to a sex slave — and by the same man, no less.
Humans' main target is the sexist status quo, but it's also interested in the ways that everybody on Earth — even women — perpetuates that status quo simply because it's easier. The political slipperiness that is the show's stock in trade serves it especially well here.
That's why the sexual encounter between human Joe and Anita, the Synth who cares for his kids, is so disquieting. On the one hand, the audience knows that Anita has had stirrings of whatever consciousness once existed in her, when she was a Synth known as Mia. On the other, it also knows that Joe views her almost entirely as an appliance, a particularly expensive and sophisticated one, sure, but no more capable of feeling than a refrigerator.
And Joe isn't wrong to think this, either! From his perspective, there are no conscious Synths, and an 18+ pack is just there for a little extramarital fun that won't get messy emotions involved or potentially destroy his marriage — somewhere in the vicinity of a sex toy. What's more, Anita explicitly tells him that he can do "anything," which would read as consent to just about everybody.
But she's also clearly not into it (though it doesn't seem as if Joe notices). And where does the line between bad, unsatisfying sex and actual sexual assault occur in that instance? In most relationships — even one-night stands — that's where a conversation would occur between partners about what was wanted and expected. But that conversation can't occur between Anita and Joe because the imbalance of power is so great between the two of them that Anita either cannot have that discussion for her own safety or has essentially walled off the parts of herself that might initiate it. (The show is perfectly hazy on a lot of these points, which is weirdly satisfying.)
So, yes, it's assault — but only because both participants live in a culture that makes such a thing disconcertingly frequent.
Humans is also ostensibly a family drama, though the human characters are not nearly as interesting as the Synths.
AMC
I had my doubts about Humans when it debuted — and, as a matter of fact, I still do. The show tells more often than it shows, and the cuts of episodes that AMC foisted on the American audience often lurch weirdly between scenes, chopping out whole segments out of the British originals to fit into an American running time.
But I still love those slippery politics, and I love the way the show's directors force us to look at the Synths — and by extension what they symbolize and represent. Perfectly normal shots of blissful families or people going about their days will be interrupted by these eerie, mostly stationary creations — human-ish, but just far enough away to invoke the uncanny valley — and the show is often careful to keep them at the edges of the action, the fringes of a society that marginalizes them.
Even if the season finale — which scattered the characters to the winds after the conscious Synths narrowly escaped the law — didn't wholly satisfy on a story level, it satisfied on an emotional one. In a scene midway through, the Synths, captured and being held for eventual destruction, were finally at the center of the frame. The camera lingered on their faces, one by one, as they came together as an ad hoc family, awaiting the end.
Humans might be slightly chilly and hard to warm up to, but at least some of that is intentional. This is a story about people who've been frozen out of a society that sees them as an anachronism at best and an existential threat at worst. It's a story not about one specific minority group, but about all of them.
Catch up with Humans at the AMC website or via digital download.
Correction: This article originally misstated the number of conscious Synths. The number has been corrected.
Since the world was new, humans have been trying to figure out a way — one that doesn't involve copious amounts of plastic surgery — to make dating, an important facet of human life, simpler and less painful. Tinder, we thought, was a way to do that. But after a massive meltdown last week, we can't look at the app in the same way again (though this isn't necessarily a bad thing).
Armed with a canary and a lantern, journalist Nancy Jo Sales spelunked into the depths of Tinder hell, discovered some pretty loathsome alleged humans, and, like a sadistic circus owner, displayed her findings in Vanity Fair as a freakshow. These terrifying people use terms like "Tinderellas" (women they meet on Tinder) and allegedly do things like send the pizza emoji to procure sex.

Tinder appreciated Sales's story as much as you would a kick to your liver, and responded with a gloriously unhinged 30-tweet meltdown. North Koreans were cited, as were a "shit ton" of Tinder marriages, and charges of shady journalism. Though Tinder's Twitter fit and Sales's article were both, in their own ways, delicious, the fight pointed to a bigger picture that involves us regular humans, our relationship to technology, and how we talk about dating culture — regardless of whether we're in the business of swiping left or right.

"Touch my phone," the cruel warlock said before capturing her soul. (Stock-Asso via Shutterstock)
The main thrust of Sales's Vanity Fair article is that Tinder is a horseman of the dating apocalypse. Sales points out that single humans are now at the point where they've left behind the restrained tradition of dating and graduated into the lurid world of hookup culture. And it's easy to see why Tinder is part of this ecosystem. Years of human assignations have chipped away at the stigma of sex, and suddenly we're not living by the rules that governed generations before ours, the idea of meeting people you're romantically interested in through your friends and family, or even in social situations.
The ardent guidelines of courtship have disintegrated, Sales argues. Instant gratification is now the impetus. And being able to dismiss (with a literal "X") potential romantic partners based on six photos they post on Facebook has reduced dating to child's play.
Sales's theorem isn't wrong. But hearing about this in theory is a lot different from actually seeing it happen. Think of a snake: You're told it eats other animals to stay alive. You understand the vague outline of this process, but it's a completely different experience to watch an animal unhinge its jaw, gorge itself, and eventually shit nightmares that make you develop a fear of snakes. Sales found some snakes to illustrate her case, like some guy who's referred to as Marty:
But Marty, who prefers Hinge to Tinder ("Hinge is my thing"), is no slouch at "racking up girls." He says he’s slept with 30 to 40 women in the last year: "I sort of play that I could be a boyfriend kind of guy," in order to win them over, "but then they start wanting me to care more … and I just don’t."
Or Alex:
"I always make a point of disclosing I’m not looking for anything serious. I just wanna hang out, be friends, see what happens … If I were ever in a court of law I could point to the transcript." But something about the whole scenario seems to bother him, despite all his mild-mannered bravado. "I think to an extent it is, like, sinister," he says, " ‘cause I know that the average girl will think that there’s a chance that she can turn the tables. If I were like, Hey, I just wanna bone, very few people would want to meet up with you …
But Sales's darkest discovery is a man whom she feels has punched above his weight when it comes to procuring sex:
Nick, with his lumbersexual beard and hipster clothes, as if plucked from the wardrobe closet of Girls, is, physically speaking, a modern male ideal. That he fulfills none of the requirements identified by evolutionary psychologists as what women supposedly look for in mates—he’s neither rich nor tall; he also lives with his mom—doesn’t seem to have any effect on his ability to get rampantly laid. In his iPhone, he has a list of more than 40 girls he has "had relations with, rated by [one to five] stars…. It empowers them," he jokes. "It’s a mix of how good they are in bed and how attractive they are."
Sales's story is like one of those terrifying Scandinavian fairy tales that existed before Disney got its hands on it — the kind where a lovely mermaid just wants to try out some legs, but using them feels like walking on broken glass, and it all eventually ends with her having to kill the one she loves. In this case, Sales shows us what living on the other side of that world is like. It means lying back and thinking of England while the openly mediocre Nick has his carnal way with you and then rates you in his phone or Marty thinking he's playing games with your heart. Suddenly, you realize that the mermaid may have had it easier.

Anders never got a reply. (Vitabello1 via Shutterstock)
Sales didn't paint Tinder in a positive light, but I'm not entirely sure it was as harsh as Tinder thinks it was. Essentially, Tinder is the vehicle that helps these goons find their sexual conquests (the awful sea witch, if we're still running with the mermaid analogy). It obviously can't control its users, and it's more of a product that hookup culture begot than something that created hookup culture.
Nevertheless, in response, someone with access to Tinder's Twitter account went on a tirade against Vanity Fair and Sales:
Hey @nancyjosales — that survey is incorrect. If you're interested in having a factual conversation, we're here. https://t.co/SLWlTLvJuf
If you want to try to tear us down with one-sided journalism, well, that’s your prerogative.

Tinder's response centered on the idea that Tinder users aren't using it for casual sex but, rather, "meaningful" relationships:
Tinder users are on Tinder to meet people for all kinds of reasons. Sure, some of them — men and women — want to hook up.
But we know from our own survey data that it’s actually a minority of Tinder users.
Our data tells us that the vast majority of Tinder users are looking for meaningful connections.

Tinder didn't supply the raw data to these assertions.These connections, according to whomever is in control of Tinder's Twitter account, have resulted in a "shit ton" of marriages:
It’s about meeting new people for all kinds of reasons. Travel, dating, relationships, friends and a shit ton of marriages.

Tinder's view is that it, as opposed to what Sales reported, creates relationships that go beyond casual sex. And there's a sense that Tinder is embarrassed about its role in facilitating hookups. But the company's response raises the question: Why does it value marriages over casual sex? And further, are marriages really the goal that Tinder envisions for itself and its users?
Sure, garbage golems like "Nick" prowling Tinder for casual sex are embarrassing. But not everyone is Nick. And Sales did interview women who said they were open to casual sexual relationships, too — using Tinder to procure sex cuts across gender, sexual orientation, and whatever other social identifiers there are. Tinder willfully ignoring or being embarrassed by this component of its service — especially for an app that works by focusing on looks — is mind-boggling. It also underscores a sense of shame about sex.
To be clear, whether it's sex, dates, or marriage, as long as it doesn't involve harm and sobbing there's no "better" result when it comes to Tinder. There's no rule that every person has to treat casual sex the way Nick does, nor is there a rule that people who have found marriage via Tinder are somehow superior to the rest of the users. The sooner we come to realize that humans are silly, and will do silly things to find someone they're romantically compatible with — whether that results in sex, dates, or marriage — the better.
It's unclear to me why a company that is heavily reliant on single people meeting other single people is hoping to see people get married. That's just bad business.
Tinder expanded further — explaining how it's helped lonely North Koreans find meaningful connections with other North Koreans:
Talk to our many users in China and North Korea who find a way to meet people on Tinder even though Facebook is banned.

Please take a minute to realize that Tinder doesn't work without Facebook. Ergo, it's unclear how Tinder is bringing North Koreans together if Facebook is banned and the internet barely exists there. (Max Fisher has a more in-depth look at Tinder's claim.) But yet again, Tinder is reluctant to bring up casual sex — claiming instead that it's a vehicle for more allegedly wholesome human connections. Forgive me, but if I invented an app that allowed some of the most oppressed people in the world a wild romp here and there, I would be standing on the rooftops pounding my chest and screaming into the abyss. North Korean one-night stands would truly be a human rights achievement.
While Sales made more eloquent points than Tinder, her account isn't the end-all-be-all about the app. The biggest issue with her piece was that it relied on anecdotes and extrapolated those anecdotes to tell a bigger, sweeping story. Jesse Singal at New York magazine explains that Sales's story might be an accurate depiction of a certain type of user but isn't reliable enough to really paint a bigger picture:
Sales is talking to exactly the sorts of people you’d expect to use dating apps in a way that will help them find more people to sleep with, and then, having discovered that these promiscuous people use a promiscuity-enabling app to find other promiscuous people to have promiscuous sex with, reporting back to us that we’re in the midst of a promiscuity-fueled dating "revolution" in how people deal with romance and sex. This is known as confirmation bias.
Sales does cite a study that found millennials are having sex with fewer partners than previous generations. But she brushes it off in a parenthetical reference. She writes:
When I asked Jean Twenge and Ryne Sherman, two of the study’s authors, about their methodology, they said their analysis was based partly on projections derived from a statistical model, not entirely from direct side-by-side comparisons of numbers of sex partners reported by respondents. "All data and all studies are open to interpretation—that’s just the nature of research" Twenge said.
Twenge and Sherman's study shouldn't be brushed off, though. The findings of that study complement a 2011 study from researchers at University of Nebraska Lincoln titled "Talk About ‘Hooking Up:The Influence of College Student Social Networks on Non-Relationship Sex."
That study found that only 37 percent of the students they studied reported two or more hookups during the school year. But 90 percent of the participants thought a "typical" student had been involved in two or more hookups. Perception didn't match up with reality, and students thought there was more casual sex happening around them than there actually was:
Sales isn't definitively wrong, and these studies aren't definitively right. But there's a disconnect that needs to be resolved. If millennials, the people whom Sales interviewed, are having fewer partners and college students are hooking up less frequently than they think, a sweeping declaration that dating has now become a barren land of perpetual hookups might be overblown — especially when the 2011 study shows that there's a very real phenomenon of overestimating hookup culture.
Maybe these are just pre-Tinder days. Maybe there's a pool of promiscuous people who are having way more sex than everyone else. But what about the men and women who aren't having sex with multiple partners? What about the humans who would rather eat pizza and watch Netflix than hook up? What about the people on Tinder who never message you? It's like those people don't exist.
If people in college are completely off in their perception of sex around them, couldn't it be possible that we could be just as wrong about the people hooking up on Tinder?
Sales explained to Singal that the data in the Twenge/Sherman study didn't match up with her analysis. That's why, Singal asserts, she brushed it off.
"For example: It finds that, while millennials have more open and accepting attitudes about sex, they also have fewer sex partners. This didn’t make sense to me," she said. "Nor did it make sense that people who are waiting longer to marry (or not marrying at all, so far) — that is, millennials — would also have fewer sex partners than past generations, who married earlier."
But brushing off data because it doesn't fit your analysis isn't really sensible. Sometimes data doesn't make sense. Some, including the Republican Party itself, would argue that Donald Trump leading all other Republican presidential candidates doesn't make sense. Not covering his campaign because it doesn't make sense isn't an option. The same goes for a lot of less-sexed millennials.
No.
What's interesting in all of this is that what Tinder does — match someone based on physical appearances and location — is the same thing apps like Grindr and Scruff have been doing for much longer. Back in 2011, think piece after think piece was written about how Grindr — an app for gay men that connects them with potential suitors based on location — was destroying the gay bar. Those pieces are still running to this day, each time a little different:
(Google)
The fact that these pieces are still being written today proves that gay culture and gay bars aren't some monolithic structure that's easily taken down by a wrecking ball.
The same goes for dating culture and Tinder.
No doubt things will get confusing and weird. Nick isn't the first human eggplant to get laid, and he certainly won't be the last. No matter how much Tinder wants to believe men like him don't exist, they will. And in its rush to defend itself, the dating app company might have missed a bigger point. Dating has always been, and always will be, a strange and awkward human behavior. Tinder can't kill that.
Early in Show Me a Hero, HBO's towering new miniseries from several alumni of The Wire that debuted August 16 and airs over three weeks, one government official says that he's fine with the construction of housing projects, but, "Not in my backyard."
The others gathered chuckle knowingly at what he's just said, how he's invoked the idea of NIMBY directly, in the very words it stands for. It's a wink from the show to all of the wonks in its audience — we're on your side. We know this stuff backward and forward, and you can trust in us.

But it's also an indication of the miniseries' approach to storytelling in general. As its central topic, Show Me a Hero has taken the idea of housing desegregation — a hot-button issue in the late 20th century that almost never comes up today — and it casts its net so wide that in later episodes, it feels like everybody in the city of Yonkers, New York, is one of its characters.

Rating
All of this should contribute to a miniseries that suffers from dullness and bloat, but Show Me a Hero always feels thrillingly alive and attuned to the way that all politics is personal. "Not in my backyard" stops being a concept and becomes something driven by raw, human emotion, and that makes it all the more powerful when wounds begin to heal. Later in the series, one character tells another that "votes aren't love," but it's not hard to see why these people can get confused on the matter. They put everything they have into these seemingly tiny, local issues, and when they come out the other side, they're different — at once more hopeful and more beaten down.
Here are the five elements that combine to make Show Me a Hero one of the year's very best TV programs.
David Simon, right, collaborates on Show Me a Hero with director Paul Haggis.
HBO
David Simon is best known as the creator of The Wire (on which William F. Zorzi also worked), but he's also terrific at the miniseries form, having previously worked on The Corner and Generation Kill for HBO. Both were big, epic stories about corners of American policy (the war on drugs; the Iraq War) that television rarely dared explore. Simon's gift for finding the human story amid the bureaucracy served all of these projects well.
What Simon and Zorzi have done in Show Me a Hero is perhaps even more impressive. They've taken a gigantic, sprawling case with few clear heroes or villains, based on an issue few Americans think about anymore, and made it immediate and piercing. The city of Yonkers spent much of the 1980s attempting to avoid building affordable housing for the city's lower-income residents, even though the federal government had ordered the city to do so.
You always understand the emotional toll the constant, wearying fight is having on the series' main characters
When Show Me a Hero begins, the city has run out of stall tactics and has to simply start putting up the units — but public opinion is fiercely opposed to the new houses, and politicians have never met a divisive issue they couldn't exploit.
Simon and Zorzi's gift for boiling down gigantic topics serves them well here. You might not always be clear on just where the city stands in regards to the projects, but you always understand the emotional toll the constant, wearying fight is having on the series' main characters, particularly young Mayor Nick Wasicsko (Oscar Isaac — more on him in a moment).
Most stories are about people who are trying to get something done. Show Me a Hero is about a bunch of people pushing either with or against an inevitability as it slowly rolls downhill. That should be stultifying, but Simon and Zorzi make it electrifying.
Haggis handles the crowd scenes particularly well.
HBO
Paul Haggis gets ridden down a lot for directing Crash, an undeserved Oscar Best Picture winner if ever there was one. But his other work in television and film has been mostly superlative, and Show Me a Hero is no exception. There are sequences in this miniseries as well-directed as anything in his career, especially when city council meetings threaten to turn into full-scale riots as the housing projects move forward and the people of Yonkers make their displeasure known.

In particular, pay attention to how often Haggis frames shots so that characters seem hemmed in by the other objects in their space. Their only choices are a bunch of bad ones, and they can't find a way forward that doesn't involve struggle, pain, and heartache. Haggis also makes elegant, brilliant use of close-ups, particularly in the series' final two hours, which focus constantly on Isaac's face as he seizes at every opportunity that comes his way but can't seem to stop spiraling into despair.
Haggis also uses a unique mirroring structure that depicts characters coming apart in early installments, then shows — in similar shots, no less — those same characters coming back together. The healing of Yonkers has to begin in living rooms and private conversations, not in city council chambers. Haggis highlights this, both as a way for the story to reach its conclusion and as a way for us to understand how healing can happen in our own world.
Oscar Isaac plays Mayor Nick Wasicsko in Show Me a Hero.
HBO
Anything you throw at Isaac, he can play. Whether he's the coulda-been folk music star and misanthrope at the center of Inside Llewyn Davis or a tech genius with a dark secret in Ex Machina, Isaac makes that character feel full-fledged and completely human. Given six hours to work with here, he turns Nick Wasicsko into a walking examination of how some driven people use their work to stand in for the big, central questions about themselves that they've never dared answer or even ask.
Isaac turns Nick into an examination of how some driven people use their work to stand in for questions about themselves they've never dared answer
It's not hard to learn about the arc of Nick's career. (Indeed, you can read all about it on Wikipedia.) Isaac's gift is the way he simultaneously plays to those who know this story well and to those who have no idea. In his hands, Nick becomes somebody who's driven by demons even he barely understands until he has no choice but to stare them in the eye.
Nick is always at the center of Show Me a Hero, but he's not always the story's most important character. Isaac turns this potential flaw into an asset, as he keeps trying to throw himself back toward relevance, only to learn that things have passed him by. And, finally, he leaves open the question of just who Nick — who ran for mayor on a platform of stopping the housing projects from happening, then grudgingly threw them his support when he realized the city had no other options — is and just how "heroic" he was. Show Me a Hero argues that most of our American heroes are just people who were pragmatic enough to support important social change slightly before public opinion did. The "Great Man" theory of history is a misnomer. It's more like a series of people who realize which way the wind is blowing and start heading that direction.
Catherine Keener plays a pivotal role in Show Me a Hero.
HBO
Everywhere you look in Show Me a Hero, there's another ringer (or two or three). The always great Catherine Keener stops in as a woman virulently opposed to the housing projects who finds herself beginning to soften as she meets some of the people who will be living in them. Winona Ryder is here as one of Nick's best friends in local government, while Alfred Molina plays his greatest political foe. Wire veteran Clarke Peters pops up in a pivotal role in later episodes.
Show Me a Hero keeps pulling back to reveal new layers and characters with every episode
But it's just as important to note the many actors here who aren't as well known, like Dominique Fishback as a young mother struggling with the proper role her children's father should play in her life, or LaTanya Richardson Jackson as a blind woman living in the projects and struggling to keep her head above water.
One of the very best things about Show Me a Hero is the way it keeps pulling back to reveal new layers to its story and new characters worth caring about in every episode. This isn't just a story about the lawmakers. It's also a story about their constituents, and the people who will be helped by the new housing, and their friends and family. It's a story not about a bunch of politicians, but about the city they serve.
Mayor Nick Wasicsko (Oscar Isaac, center) goes over plans for new housing projects in Yonkers in the miniseries Show Me a Hero.
HBO
"Show me a hero, and I'll write you a tragedy," goes the F. Scott Fitzgerald quote that gives the miniseries (and the Lisa Belkin book it's based on) its name. And that certainly applies to various figures within Show Me a Hero. But the overall tone of the miniseries is optimistic — and deeply certain of government's ability to do good for the people it serves if it wants to badly enough.
The simple fact of the matter is that the projects in Yonkers end up being a good thing. They bring together a community riven by division, and they cause those who might look upon each other with suspicion to see with new eyes. And that's even before you consider the affordable, livable housing they provided to people who desperately needed just such a thing.
The miniseries is deeply certain of government's ability to do good for the people it serves if it wants to badly enough
Simon and Haggis's past work has been marked by an occasional pessimism about America's ability to do anything worth doing, but Show Me a Hero argues, at the end, that sometimes it's as simple as sitting down with another person on common ground, to talk more about what you have in common than what divides you. And, the series argues, there is no greater task of government than this — to come to the people it represents, hat in hand, and ask, "How can we help?"
We can talk about Hero or any other cultural topics of note! Did you see and love any movies this weekend? What are you reading? What's your album of the moment? Let's talk.
Show Me a Hero airs Sundays at 8 pm Eastern through August 30 on HBO. You can watch the first two installments on HBO Go and HBO Now.
The fundamental tension at the heart of the Showtime series Masters of Sex, a fictionalized retelling of the groundbreaking sex research study by real-life scientists William Masters and Virginia Johnson, is the question of whether love can be explained by measuring human sexual response — and, as a corollary, whether anyone, even scientists, really wants to reduce it to that.
That's a familiar conflict, like the endless battle between those who insist baseball games are won and lost on "intangibles" and the stat-devising Seamheads immortalized in Michael Lewis's Moneyball.
As a devotee of baseball and love, I believe there's room for both science and the wonders of that which can't be quantified. And as we find out in season three, episode five of Masters, Bill, the data-driven character played by Michael Sheen, believes the same.
His paean to the inexorable nature of love and sex is one of the most moving monologues I've ever seen on screen or stage. It's so poetic, I couldn't possibly do it justice with my own words. So watch it:

Masters of Sex airs Sundays at 10 pm Eastern on Showtime. You can catch up with previous episodes on Showtime Anytime or Hulu.
Hannibal Lecter may be the devil, as I've argued many times, but one of Thomas Harris's sickest jokes in creating this character was making him, simultaneously, a psychotherapist.

In his conception of the character, Hannibal showrunner Bryan Fuller has pushed both aspects of the character to their utmost. He's Lucifer, capable of slipping undetected beneath the radar of law enforcement for decades. He's also a remarkably competent therapist, who believes the best way to help his patients is to turn them into their darkest, most murderous selves. Humanity can only be itself when it gives in to its basest desires. It's at the center of both Hannibal's devilry and his therapeutic process.
What's most remarkable about Hannibal is that it works.
Take, for instance, the final scene of "...And the Beast from the Sea," the latest episode of the series.
I suggested a few weeks ago that this Red Dragon mini-arc was focused on the many found families that had formed in the three years that elapsed between the season's seventh and eighth episodes. In "Beast," Hannibal immediately begins tugging at the strands pulling these various people together, seemingly in hopes of dissolving those bonds for once and all.
That includes sending Francis Dolarhyde after Will's wife and son.
The devil leans over to whisper in a man's ear.
NBC
What's fascinating about this is that it's not immediately clear why Hannibal is doing this. Does he resent Will for settling down and finding a life that doesn't include Hannibal in it? Yes. Does he want to help Francis become his best, most murderous self? Also yes. And does he want to use this as a kind of shock therapy designed to push Will past his breaking point? Again, the answer is yes.
Will goes from hospital to Hannibal's cell in a matter of moments. And he's not happy.
NBC
But doing this is also exactly what Will needs to have a major breakthrough in the case. Hannibal's action — sending a serial killer after the family of a man he apparently still considers a friend — is evil, but it has a positive result.
Will has been unable to grasp what Francis is up to because he can only see the end result — the murdered, formerly happy family. Hannibal wants to push Will to a place where he considers not what happens to the family, but the gift Francis thinks he is giving to said family (namely, a transformation into some new, better form). And to do that, Hannibal needs Will to stop thinking like a family man and start thinking, once again, like a killer.
Take a look at how director Michael Rymer shoots this scene. Though Hannibal is behind bars and Will is a free man, Rymer frames everything to suggest Hannibal is either Will's equal or his superior. We go from seeing the two of them at eye level, only the clear plastic wall of Hannibal's cell separating them:
Hannibal and Will face off, only the plastic between them.
NBC
To Will shot from above, to make him seem smaller, more powerless, and out of control.
Will is losing his grip on things.
NBC
Hannibal, meanwhile, is at the top of his powers, even if he's imprisoned. Rymer shoots him from below to make him seem looming, intimidating.
Hannibal doesn't care what you think. He's large and in charge.
NBC
The episode frames Hannibal in this way throughout. He's always in charge of the situation, even when others think they have him trapped. From his jail cell, he's manipulating the world, pulling at all the strands in his web that will make his many puppets dance.
Even when Hannibal has his luxuries — including his toilet — taken from him, he remains firmly in control.
Even with his famous mask covering his mouth, Hannibal remains firmly in control of this situation, at least in terms of his position within the frame.
NBC
Hannibal certainly doesn't like being imprisoned in a mental hospital, but there's the decided sense that he's pretty sure he's got everybody else humming his tune, even when they're nowhere near him.
At its heart, Hannibal is about how Will simply can't expunge Hannibal from his very soul. And even after three years of trying, that's still true.
The marriage between Will and Molly and the stepparent relationship between Will and Walter aren't the only relationships falling apart here. Though Hannibal tries to suggest Francis can have Reba and the Dragon in his life, this episode shows the steady way Francis turns against Reba, the one thing that might keep him from descending fully into his worst possible self.
The dragon inside Francis, see, wants to kill Reba. He would rather not, but he also knows that the longer he spends with her, the more dangerous he becomes to her. This is demonstrated perfectly by the shot of the two of them, cuddled on the couch, him watching footage of the family he's preparing to kill while she rests, unaware, next to him. Catastrophe is always looming over Reba, even if she doesn't know it.
Reba enjoys a nice movie night at home, as her boyfriend watches footage of the people he's planning to kill.
NBC
Tellingly, Fuller and company wait until this episode to let us see Francis actually stalking people in their homes, during the terrifying sequence when he invades Will and Molly's home and fails to kill either Molly or her son, mostly thanks to her being a light sleeper. He's obviously a man, but with the false teeth in his mouth and the cap pulled over his eyes, he looks more like a beast than he ever has before.
Francis looks strikingly alien with the hat pulled over his eyes.
NBC
Of course, he also beats the shit out of himself after he fails to kill anyone, imagining the dragon pummeling him.
Francis and the Red Dragon fight it out. Guess who wins?
NBC
Rymer, Fuller, and Richard Armitage are painting for us what happens when Hannibal invades a fragile mind with his tendrils, as surely as he did with Hannibal's manipulation of the slowly decaying Will all the way back in season one. But where Will somehow held out against the monster's manipulations, Francis is unable to do much other than punish himself.
This is where the lines between therapist Hannibal and Lucifer Hannibal well and truly blur. On some level, therapist Hannibal really does want to help his patients — even if his version of help usually involves turning them into strange, animal versions of themselves, unconstrained by the boundaries of society. Lucifer Hannibal, however, wishes to sow as much destruction and chaos as he can, spreading the darkness within him over the face of the Earth. The lines between help and punishment stop feeling hard and fast and start to blend into each other.
Hannibal — and the work of Thomas Harris, more generally — is obsessed with duality, with the idea that every one of these characters carries two selves within them. Will is the investigator who harbors his own murderous side. Francis is a wounded, gentle man — who also believes himself to be a grand, murderous manifestation of the devil.
What makes Hannibal the king of this world is the way he seems aware of both sides of himself, the way he allows for his help to become punishment and his punishment to become help. He is sour and spiteful and vengeful, but he's also strangely controlled and majestic. You lie down on his therapist's couch and don't know if you're going to learn more about the inner workings of your own mind or the inner workings of his. You don't know if you'll be saved or devoured — or if those are the same thing.
Previous episode
Paul Haggis, best known for the Oscar Best Picture–winning film Crash, speaks at a rapid clip, rattling off thoughts on whatever you might ask him, even as he's checking his phone for the messages that buzz in. In some other life, he might have been a big Hollywood mogul, spouting thoughts at a moment's notice, but with his genial, soft-spoken voice (with hints of the accent of his native Canada), he never comes off as anything but quick-witted and thoughtful.
He's an eclectic figure, with many different interests, but the theme that unites his films and TV series is an interest in people pushed to their limits by inhospitable systems, be they political or corporate. That makes his latest work, the HBO miniseries Show Me a Hero (written by Wire creator David Simon and William F. Zorzi), particularly interesting. The story of the battle for housing desegregation in Yonkers, New York, debuts Sunday, August 16, and follows dozens of people as they struggle to find new ways to define themselves in a town that has become deeply, politically polarized.
It's a terrific miniseries, and much of that is thanks to how Haggis shoots the story — like a scripted documentary just happening to unfold in front of his camera. I recently caught up with Haggis to talk about his history in television, why the film industry would never make Show Me a Hero, and his memories of his Oscar-winning night with Crash. This interview has been lightly edited for length and clarity.
Todd VanDerWerff: You worked in television before you made films like Crash, on series like Thirtysomething and EZ Streets [a one-season 1996 crime series]. How do you think television has shifted since you worked in it in the '80s and '90s?
Paul Haggis: I would love to be doing EZ Streets now. Even five years later, even on HBO. CBS at the time, though, the big hit was Touched by an Angel. I always felt that I was a little out of time in my television work. It made sense to me to run away from television when everyone was running toward it. Now to come back to it, the thing is, I can't think of any other place that would tell a story like this, other than HBO. A lot of it is just the story and where you get to tell it. I love film. I love television. But if you can find a way to explore characters for six hours, that's television.
Paul Haggis at the Show Me a Hero premiere earlier in August.
Andrew H. Walker/Getty Images

TV: Do you feel like film has become inhospitable to stories like this?
PH: Yes, completely. It's very hard to get things like this financed. I'm lucky enough, you win the Oscars, and I find they tend to want to finance your films. I have always been fierce in wanting my independence. My last film [Third Person] was a nod to the great filmmakers who influenced me growing up, the French new wave, and the Italians. No one wants to see a film like that anymore, films that ask more questions than they answer, but I always love to do that. If I can do that in television or I can do that in film, it doesn't really matter to me.
TV: We're almost 10 years out from when you won the Oscar for Crash. Looking back on it now, do you have reflections on that moment? Why you think that that film resonated so much?
PH: I don't know how good a film it is. I didn't know at the time. It was a good script. I didn't know it was a good movie, but I knew it touched people, and that's what I wanted to do. I knew it made people question long-held beliefs.
"I didn't know it was a good movie, but I knew it touched people"
If you look at EZ Streets, you'd be hard-pressed to say there's a stereotype in there, but I decided to present stereotypes in the beginning [of Crash] and for the first half hour, reinforce every stereotype you've ever believed, so that I could twist you around in the seat by the time you left and make you question your beliefs. If I hadn't done that, if I hadn't reinforced at the beginning and made you comfortable, then I wasn't going to challenge you. It's in the dark, it's okay no one's going to see you laughing at the Hispanics or the Asian drivers, and then, once I made you comfortable, I could twist you around and leave you spinning.
It does that still. I've had people who've just come into it now, say, "My god, I walked up thinking something completely different." That makes me feel really good. Have I done better films? Yeah. In the Valley of Elah is a much better film, but it didn't have the impact. I was trying to stop a war there. Didn't succeed, did I?
TV: Authenticity sounds like a watchword for Show Me a Hero, but actors need freedom of their own interpretations of their characters. How did you approach that question of giving them freedom, while also keeping them close to the real figures?

Alfred Molina stars in Show Me a Hero. (HBO)
PH: The actors really did a lot of research, without me even asking to, because a lot of these people were in the public eye. There's video of them. There were photographs. Some of them were living. They [the actors] really educated themselves. They came to this, often, with a really good understanding of who that person was. For that reason, every single person feels unique in this, because they've done that research. They know their tics. Alfred Molina, if you watch the video of the fellow he's playing, [Henry] Spallone, he used to hit his microphone after he spoke each time. I said, "Alfred, just hit the microphone."
TV: So you actually filmed this in Yonkers. What did that add?
PH: To be able to shoot something where it actually occurred — we struggled to do that wherever we possibly could. City Hall is City Hall. The Chamber, we had to rebuild some of it, so we went next door and built the mayor's office and a couple other city councilmen's offices, but the Great Room is the Great Room. Things happened where things actually happened. That was important.
Mary Dorman's house is Mary Dorman's house. She died a couple of years ago, but the kids hadn't sold the house yet. Shooting in something that small, other directors would've gone, "Oh, no, no. This is way too small to put a crew in." I said, "Great, it's perfect," because it's going to feel claustrophobic. You're going to say, "Her life was very similar to the lives of these people who she's trying to keep out of her neighborhood." I shot it that way specifically, so it would echo each other. You understand these are working people fighting for their homes. Their fear, the fear of others that's been instilled in them by the politicians, is real. They have to open their eyes and realize that there's nothing really to be afraid of.
"Whenever I could make a frame imperfect, I would"
David and Bill brought me a script that was based completely on truth. It was Lisa [Belkin's] book, and she'd done a lot of research, and Bill had done even more. My job, I felt, was to make it feel real, to make you feel like you were there and experiencing that. That's how I chose to shoot every scene, especially the crowd scenes — to put you behind those people so that you had to look around other people, and you sensed that you were there. Even the close-ups, I'd put a microphone into the shot. I'd bend things into the shot, so that everything was imperfect. I can't always do that, but whenever I could make a frame imperfect, I would.
TV: That adds to the feeling everyone in the miniseries has of being boxed in by a large series of mostly bad choices. How were you making it clear how few good options these people had?
PH: Again, it's just where you put your camera and how you block your actors in that way. Whenever I could, I'd find a way to make the camera feel like the circumstances were dwarfing our characters, and that they were fighting off things that were much larger that they couldn't control. It was just a choice, moment to moment.
In film, you shoot two to three pages of script a day. We shot seven to 10 pages a day. You had to move really quickly, and there was always something had gone wrong. The street that you had planned to shoot on, they hadn't cleared the cars, and so we couldn't shoot on that street. The actor was an hour and a half late that day. She missed her bus or something. The crane that was supposed to come up went up to a different location. You can't possibly prepare for six hours of shooting. It's just too big. With all that, we then had to go every day and say, "How do we do something terrific?"
TV: The writer tends to have a lot of power in television, compared with film, where the director does. How did you find returning to TV as just a director and not a writer, as well as working with David Simon?
"We had to go every day and say, 'How do we do something terrific?'"
PH: I came just because of David. I was such a huge fan of his, and that's why I came to this project. I always wanted to work with him. I've loved his television. I've always respected the writer. I am one. I think he found he relaxed into that quite quickly, and that I was there to direct.
As a director, yes, you're going to influence the scene. Yes, you're going to influence the writing, but you've also got to respect it. We had a great relationship that way. Both of us have very strong opinions. We are both A-type personalities, but that worked, because we both cared very much for every frame of this film.
HBO
HBO
Paul Haggis (left) and David Simon on the set of Show Me a Hero. (HBO)
TV: Both this and Crash have stories about racial divides at their centers. What keeps taking you back to that theme? How do you think these two stories approach those questions differently?
PH: Very differently. One's a fable, and the other is the story of events. It's not documentary, but the scenes are the scenes. They have actually occurred. I just want to tell stories that are about who we are, and race and class in America continues to be at the center of our story. I don't want to avoid it.
TV: This is also really about how issues become polarized.
PH: Yes. Common sense has no place in politics. It's all about the fear of the other, and manipulating people's baser instincts in order to get elected, and to get whatever interest group that you represent whatever it is they want. It's really cynical, what's happened to this country.
TV: So what do you think we can learn, if anything, from these events about how to deal with that polarization?
PH: We just present it, and then hope that folks will identify with the characters, and where they've been manipulated into believing things that perhaps aren't in their best interests.
"Common sense has no place in politics"
It happens all the time in this country. How many people think that public health care is a terrible thing, even though their wife needs an operation, or the kids need to get their teeth fixed? We somehow have convinced them that they should identify themselves with a group that thinks that's the worst think we could possibly have in this country. How? That's against their own best interest, but somehow, we've been able to convince a great deal of the country that they should vote against their own best interest.
TV: The episode blossoms out from Mayor Nick Wasicsko to become the story of just about everybody involved in this. What was it like managing that?
PH: We changed a lot of things in editing, and we moved a lot of things around as we discovered the balance of the stories, but from the beginning David and Bill really wanted to say, "These are the players, and these are the pawns." The pawns had nothing to do with what this group of white people was deciding up there in that building on the hill.
Somebody says, "Why is it all the people talking about this are white?" and it's true. That's what politics in Yonkers was. That's often what politics in America is. It's not just white, though. It's the privileged. If you want to drive Americans nuts, tell them it's a race problem. If you want to see them go apoplectic, tell them there's a class problem in this country. We thought we left that behind. We didn't. It's right here.
Show Me a Hero debuts Sunday, August 16, at 8 pm Eastern on HBO. It will air over three weeks.
Pretty Little Liars is a fantastic TV show. It's often dismissed as frivolous, as tends to happen with entertainment that targets teenage girls, and it's definitely ridiculous and over the top. Plenty of plot lines straight up make no sense. But the ABC Family show is also a great modern take on themes from detective fiction and film noir, a deliberate and potent exaggeration of high school conflict that works for the same reason Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Veronica Mars did, an unusually sophisticated treatment of teen sexuality, and a surprisingly powerful indictment of the patriarchy. I love it dearly and recommend it heartily to all.
Or I did, anyway, before the "summer finale" of its sixth season aired Tuesday night. After years of speculation, the episode unmasked "A," the anonymous tormentor who's been targeting the show's main characters: the not-as-artsy-as-she-thinks wannabe writer Aria Montgomery (Lucy Hale), the Type-A overachiever and Adderall addict Spencer Hastings (Troian Bellisario), the hyper-earnest competitive swimmer Emily Fields (Shay Mitchell), and the lovably scatterbrained but secretly super-smart Hanna Marin (Ashley Benson).
But many thought the precise nature of the revelation was awful and played into some really nasty, bigoted tropes.
To say more than that will require revealing lots of plot twists, but if you don't mind spoilers, here's what happened in the finale, where it went wrong, and why fans are furious.
From left: Aria Montgomery, Emily Fields, Spencer Hastings, and Hanna Marin.
ABC Family
If you've never seen the show, the basic premise is that the foursome at its center ("the Liars") used to be extremely close friends with Alison DiLaurentis (Sasha Pieterse), who served as the clique's Queen Bee and was generally an awful person. But then Alison was murdered … or was she? No, she was not, as was revealed at the conclusion of season four after years of hints; she was merely hit in the head with a rock and partially buried alive by her mother, after which she left Rosewood (the fictional Philly suburb in which the show is set) for a few years and went into hiding, only to return home in season five. You know how high school goes.
Anyway, one year after Alison's "death," the Liars start getting texts from someone identified only as "A" who appears to know damning secrets from their past. A torments them both psychologically and physically (she runs Hannah over with a car, for example); she did the same to Alison before her disappearance. The girls then proceed to break just about every law on the books regarding trespassing, breaking and entering, wiretapping, and so forth trying to stop and unmask A (and solve Alison's "murder"). Eventually, Mona Vanderwaal (Janel Parrish) — an old friend of Hanna's who felt Alison and the gang had stolen her away — was revealed to be A at the end of season two.
But A, like the Dread Pirate Robert or Gossip Girl, is less a rigid designator than a title that passes from person to person, and sure enough, someone else stepped up and became A after Mona was unmasked and committed to Radley Sanitarium. That person — known by fans as "Big A" or "Uber A" — leads a group known as the "A-Team," of which at least seven different characters were members at various points, often without knowing who "Big A" was.
Big A was worse than Mona in just about every way. Her first text to the Liars announced, "Mona played with dolls, I play with body parts. Game on, bitches. -A." Sure enough, Big A repeatedly tried to murder the girls. She poisoned Aria, locked her in a crate, and tried to push her off a moving train; tried to burn Aria, Hanna, Emily, and Mona alive; tried to run over Mona, Emily, and Aria; crashed a car into Emily's living room and nearly killed her mom; kidnapped Emily, locked her in a wooden box, and tried to saw her in half; tried to freeze Spencer and Emily to death; and chased the Liars while firing at them with a gun, among other things. But her worst crime against the girls, by far, involved kidnapping them and trapping them in a prison known as the "Dollhouse," inflicting repeated psychological torture on them for weeks until they were eventually rescued. She also faked Mona's death and imprisoned her in the Dollhouse, making her dress up as and pretend to be Alison at all times.
Charlotte DiLaurentis, aka CeCe Drake (Vanessa Ray), was revealed to be Big A.
ABC Family
Before the finale, the show had already established that Big A was, in all likelihood, Charles DiLaurentis: an older brother that Alison, the Liars, and the audience didn't know existed until the end of season five. That explained Big A's obsession with Alison and her friends. The finale revealed that Big A is in fact Charlotte DiLaurentis (Vanessa Ray), who was known as Charles before transitioning. Charlotte and Alison's father was deeply transphobic and locked Charlotte in Radley Sanitarium at a young age. There, she befriended a troubled girl named Bethany Young, who turned against Charlotte by murdering another patient and trying to pin it on her. Eventually Charlotte made it out under a new identity: CeCe Drake.
CeCe has been a character on the show since season three, and was introduced as an older friend of Alison's whom the Liars never really knew. CeCe also dated Jason DiLaurentis for a period in an attempt to get closer to her brother (she insists they never committed incest). But one night, CeCe thought she saw Bethany outside her family home, and, knowing what Bethany was capable of and fearing for her family's safety, hit her on the head with a rock. Only it wasn't Bethany — it was Alison. That's why their mother tried to bury Alison: She didn't want to turn Charlotte in to the police and lose two daughters in one night. Bethany really was out and about that night, however, and was murdered by Mona, who thought she was Alison. Bethany's body was thought to be Alison's, which explains why people believed Alison to be dead for so long.
Later, in season three, Mona (while at Radley Sanitarium) told Charlotte that the Liars were glad Alison was dead. This enraged Charlotte and inspired her to take up the mantle of A and attempt to destroy the girls.
Charlotte DiLaurentis being creepy with head mannequin hair (with Alison behind her).
ABC Family
On the one hand, the character of Charlotte is a rare case of trans representation on TV, and while it hadn't tackled gender identity before, Pretty Little Liars has a history of being remarkably progressive on sexual orientation. One of the Liars, Emily, is openly gay, and her girlfriends and romantic plot lines are treated just as seriously as the other girls' plots with boys. Alison's sexuality is portrayed as fluid; she has relationships with men but also harbors a deep and intermittently reciprocated attraction to Emily. I. Marlene King, the show's creator and head writer (who wrote the finale), is openly gay herself.
But lots of viewers of the show thought the twist played into some really ugly tropes about trans people.
"The hands down most damaging trope about trans women is that they are deceitful. That they get into romantic relationships by lying about who they are, by withholding information, and tricking people into loving them," Autostraddle's Heather Hogan wrote in her recap of the episode. "Many, many people truly believe this lie and use it to justify murdering, and sexually and physically abusing trans women." Charlotte — who is deceitful to her core and, most egregious, seduced her own brother under false pretenses — exemplifies these harmful stereotypes about trans women, and influences how the show's viewers think about trans women in the process.
Even apart from that history, it's not okay that the only trans character on the entire show is a violent sociopath. "No matter what happened to A in the past, what he or she is doing now is not OK," Bustle's Kelsea Stahler writes. "Stalking, torturing, murdering, framing for murder, locking people up in a bunker/dollhouse and making them recreate prom with creepy mannequins are not sane behaviors."
Charlotte DiLaurentis, posing as CeCe Drake (on right, facing away), with her actual family: from left, sister Alison, brother Jason, father Kenneth, and mother Jessica. At the time CeCe was dating Jason and friends with Alison.
ABC Family
Hogan also notes the show also encouraged misgendering of Charlotte, having characters refer to her as "he/she/it/bitch" rather than just "she": "And of course when I woke up this morning, I had dozens and dozens of messages on Twitter and Tumblr referring to Charlotte that way. The writers gave these transphobic people that language, just handed it right to them, and now it’s everywhere." Stahler adds that in an earlier episode, Big A confirms to Spencer she's Charles, and "appears to identify as a man." That's also misgendering, and disrespectful of Charlotte's identity as a woman.
Finally, there's the fact that Charlotte is played by Vanessa Ray, who is a cisgender (non-trans) woman. It's very common for films and TV shows to cast cisgender people in trans roles — think Rebecca Romijn on Ugly Betty, Jared Leto in Dallas Buyers Club, or Eddie Redmayne in The Danish Girl — but this denies work to trans actors and denies trans people the ability to represent themselves on screen.
Charlotte DiLaurentis explains why she became A to Alison.
ABC Family
King has already addressed this critique of the episode, and argued that Charlotte wasn't the true villain: The real villain was Charlotte and Alison's transphobic father, whose abuse of Charlotte warped her and made her into A.
"We tried to be very clear that Charles comes from a very crazy family," she told Entertainment Tonight's Leanne Aguilera. "Crazy runs in the family, I say, and it just so happens that this person, I think, suffered some tragic consequences of a crazy family, but having nothing to do with [being] transgender." Ray agreed: "She's not 'A' because she's transgender, and she's not transgender because she's 'A'. What she is is a person who was neglected as a child, who was never shown love or any humanity and because of that she went down a path of neglecting other people as though their humanity didn’t matter either."
"We did as much homework as we could and educated ourselves on hopefully being as sensitive as possible to the way we told the story," King elaborated in an interview with MTV's Crystal Bell. "I’ve gotten some tweets from transgender fans, and everybody so far seems to be very happy with the episode and how we told the story."
But note that in the ET quote, King is misgendering Charlotte. And when Aguilera asked if King considered casting a trans actor, King conceded that she had not: "You know, I didn’t even know that were was even an awareness of transgender actors at that time."
Charlotte DiLaurentis next to her father, Kenneth, and brother, Jason, both of whom she knocked out.
ABC Family
Defenses from other people not attached to the show were more compelling. At Jezebel, Claire Lobenfeld praised the way that Alison "doesn’t even blink" upon learning her sister is trans, arguing the reaction "helps to normalize trans identities." She quotes Hugh Ryan of the Pop Up Museum of Queer History arguing that Charlotte actually represents progress in treatment of trans villains: "It used to be: If you were trans, that was the reason you were a villain, like Sleepaway Camp or The Wasp Factory. [With Pretty Little Liars], the blame is actually shifted and it’s about [Alison’s father] Kenneth not being able to handle who [Charlotte] was."
But the best defense actually comes from Autostraddle's Hogan, who also acknowledged deep problems in the show's treatment of the issue. "At its core, Pretty Little Liars is a story about the way men assume ownership over women’s bodies, strip away their agency, deprive them of their of autonomy, deny them subjectivity, and silence them. It’s a story about how female victims are blamed for the crimes perpetrated against them by men," she writes. "The true villain of Pretty Little Liars is Kenneth DiLaurentis, and in painting Charlotte as a sympathetic character who was the ultimate female victim of the grossness of the patriarchy, the show elevated the very best things about itself."
It's not clear what role, if any, Charlotte will play in the show when it returns in January. At the end of Tuesday's episode, it leaped forward five years; the Liars were about to graduate from high school when the Charlotte revelations came out, and in the final scene, they were a year out of college, with Alison married and teaching at Rosewood High. The other Liars barge into her classroom and warn her to get out because "he" is coming.

It's unclear who "he" is, and I sure as hell hope the line doesn't refer to Charlotte. But the best-case scenario would be for the show to find a way to redeem her. It has a tendency to make previously reviled characters — notably Mona and Alison — sympathetic, at times more so than the Liars, and letting Charlotte be a hero would at least do something to make up for the problematic nature of the character to date.
Correction: This post originally said that Bethany Young killed a nurse at Radley; she killed Mrs. Cavanaugh, a former nurse who was then a patient at Radley.
Originally published on  Grist.
Quick question: Which of these images is less appealing to you?
J Ken Crozier/Grist
J Ken Crozier/Grist
A few weeks ago, we were trying to decide which one to use in a story about animals genetically modified to grow extra muscle. In a non-unanimous decision, the full-bull glamour shot won out over the close-up. The latter, for some reason, seemed off-putting, like it might force readers to think too hard about what meat actually is.
This exercise in denial, which you perform each time you’re confronted with a late-night hot dog stand, has a name: "strategic ignorance," according to Cor van der Weele, a bioethicist in the Department of Applied Philosophy at Wageningen University in the Netherlands. If we know too much about that juicy steak, she says, we might not want to eat it anymore — and that would be tragic, because juicy steaks are delicious. But the problem, van der Weele says, is that we end up with a lot of people who actually do feel uneasy about meat production, but just never do anything about it.
But for nearly 10 years, van der Weele has been studying something that she thinks could finally free us from our strategic ignorance: cultured meat. She first stumbled upon the stuff when she heard about a 2003 art exhibit in France called "Disembodied Cuisine." The artists, Oron Catts and Ionat Zurr, grew little pieces of frog meat in a lab and then fed the tiny "steaks" to diners in a gallery while the frog who supplied the starter cells looked on from a nearby terrarium. The frog, we presume, spent the rest of its life in therapy, while van der Weele became fascinated with cultured meat and has been studying it ever since.
"Inevitably, when you think more about [cultured meat], it loses some of its initial strangeness," van der Weele says, "and at the same time, meat as we know it becomes more strange."

Shutterstock
Shutterstock
A laboratory might be more environmentally friendly for growing meat than a cow is.
Cultured meat, otherwise known as lab-grown or in-vitro meat, hit the big time in 2013 when Maastricht University tissue engineer Mark Post held his (in)famous "Frankenburger" taste test. The cultured beef patty looked weird, reportedly tasted okay, and was in no way ready for mass production. But none of that mattered — the burger was a proof of concept, lab-grown chum for hungry investors.
The burger was a proof of concept, lab-grown chum for hungry investors
The basic process behind Post’s patties is this: Take a muscle biopsy from a cow, isolate the cells responsible for muscle repair (there can be a couple hundred in just a few muscle fibers), and then put those cells in a so-called bioreactor full of a nutrient-rich serum. There, the cells will multiply — if all goes well, each will turn into more than a trillion new muscle cells. Next, place those new cells onto some kind of temporary support surface so that they can connect into muscle fibers. (Post currently uses an animal-derived gel surface, but says he’s experimenting with an algae-derived alternative.) Finally, knead the fibers — each about a millimeter in diameter and about two-and-a-half centimeters long — into a patty with salt, bread crumbs, and egg white, and voila! You’re ready for the grill.
Back in 2011, researchers assessed the environmental impacts of culturing 2,200 pounds of meat using an algae-based feedstock for the cells. The study accounted for everything in the production process, with the exception of indirect land use for energy input materials and decommission of the production facility, and the results made for a pretty compelling case:
"The results showed that production of 1000 kg cultured meat requires 26–33 GJ energy, 367–521 m3 water, 190–230 m2 land, and emits 1900–2240 kg CO2-eq GHG emissions. In comparison to conventionally produced European meat, cultured meat involves approximately 7–45 percent lower energy use (only poultry has lower energy use), 78–96 percent lower GHG emissions, 99 percent lower land use, and 82–96 percent lower water use depending on the product compared."
Hanna L. Tuomisto and M. Joost Teixeira de Mattos/Grist
Since no one is actually mass-producing cultured meat yet, the assessment is entirely theoretical and contains many uncertainties. Still, the results suggest that growing meat in metal bioreactors could be much more sustainable than growing meat in the flesh bioreactors that we call cows.
What’s more, proponents of cultured meat say it could finally free us from the nasty business of killing animals altogether — an unfortunate fate for even the happiest organically raised, grass-fed, antibiotic-free, local, cage-free, free-range animal. PETA, the world’s largest collection of in-your-face vegans, got on the cultured meat bandwagon a few years ago, offering up $1 million to the first researchers who could create commercially viable in-vitro chicken meat (the deadline has since come and gone).
Growing meat in metal bioreactors could be much more sustainable than growing meat in the flesh bioreactors that we call cows
Ben Wurgaft, a historian interested in the culture and anthropology of food, has been researching cultured meat for the past two years. He says most of the people he’s encountered in the field actually cite animal welfare as their primary motivation more so that environmental concerns. (Incidentally, he also says that most of the people working in the field seem to be very nice: "I rarely meet people in the cultured meat world I wouldn’t want to hang out with.")
David Parry/PA Wire
David Parry/PA Wire
A cooked burger made from cultured beef.
But despite all its potential benefits, there’s one big problem standing in the way of a cultured meat revolution: There just aren’t that many people working on it. A group at Tel Aviv University is trying to engineer a cultured chicken breast, and a Brooklyn-based startup called Modern Meadow is culturing flat sheets of beef and leather, but by Wurgaft’s count, there are no more than 10 research labs and (maybe) three companies working in the field, only one of which — Modern Meadow — is actually funded and working on a product, he says.
"The thing that will make me think that cultured meat is approaching fast on the horizon is when there are a bunch of labs doing this work," he says. "It’s hard to believe that a breakthrough product like [cultured meat] is going to emerge out of a singular facility and that it will then create massive change in the food system."
Isha Datar, the executive director of New Harvest, a nonprofit that supports early-stage biotech researchers developing sustainable ways to make animal products, agrees: "It is something that is very worth pursuing, but that pursuit is not taking place," she says.
Datar, who has tried Modern Meadow’s "steak chips" (which she describes as tasting like beef broth with the mouthfeel of potato chips) says there are a variety of different techniques for culturing meat that scientists still need to try: different starter cells, serums, surfaces for tissue growth. What if you want a whole steak instead of a quarter-pounder? The odds of finding a complete process that works at scale go way up as more researchers get in the game, Datar says, and who knows? Maybe cultured meat turns out to be just too hard or expensive to mass-produce, but "we’ll only find that if we start investigating."
At that scale ... the meat would cost about $30 per pound
In the meantime, Post is at least willing to try. He and his team have already made a few improvements to their method since the 2013 tasting. For one, they’ve started culturing fat tissue (the original burger was all muscle). They’ve also improved the proteins in their meat to avoid having to add things like beet juice and saffron for coloring, which they did back in 2013. And perhaps most importantly, they’ve started using a synthetic serum that can almost entirely replace the bovine serum they originally used to feed the cells.
Bovine serum is not ideal because it comes from the blood of fetal calves and therefore has all kinds of animal welfare and quality control issues associated with it, Post says. Plus, he says, it would be in short supply in a world where cultured meat drastically reduces the number of cows we have on the planet.
The synthetic serum that the lab now uses comes from a commercial proprietor, but the researchers do eventually want to try an algae-based serum like the one used in the environmental impact study. Growing large quantities of algae, however, could come with issues of its own, like keeping the plants alive while they fight off disease and compete for nutrients, as synthetic biologist Christina Agapakis pointed out in a 2012 Discover Magazine article.
Cultured meat is a long-term, high-risk investment
As for scaling, Post says, the group wants to gradually work its way up from the half-liter bioreactors that it currently uses to 25,000-liter vats. A reactor of that size, he estimates, could feed about 10,000 people for one year, assuming people eat just under 90 pounds of meat annually — a considerably low estimate for the US, where the average person ate about 70 pounds of red meat and about 55 pounds of poultry in 2012.
At that scale, Post estimates, the meat would cost about $30 per pound. That’s pretty high compared to the bargain prices you’ll find on those plastic-wrapped trays of meat at your local supermarket, but it’s not bad considering how many people (including Grist) freaked out over the $325,000 price tag on the original 2013 burger — a freakout that was kind of unfair. That whopping figure was the budget for an entire tissue engineering lab, not the cost of a consumer product.
And besides, that burger was just a demonstration of what was possible. When the Wright brothers flew at Kitty Hawk for the first time, no one gave them a hard time for not offering competitively priced airfares that could compete with the railroads.
But all that — the 25,000-liter bioreactor, the $30-per-pound price tag, the 10,000 people who will be fed — only happens assuming that everything goes smoothly. And it won’t, because turning a lab experiment into a commercial process never does. Post will almost surely have to tweak his process along the way.
Funding, too, will be a big obstacle, Post says. The 2013 tasting did attract investors, he says — but without a company, he doesn’t really have anything for them to invest in yet. That’ll be a problem as each step up in bioreactor size comes with high equipment costs.
Money is actually a major issue throughout the field, Datar says, partly because cultured meat is a long-term, high-risk investment and partly because the research lies in a kind of no-man’s land between the medical world, where there’s plenty of tissue engineering research going on, and the food science world, where there isn’t.
[H]e thinks he can have a commercial product ready in five or six years
Post himself is actually a physician who got his start in tissue engineering making human blood vessels. He says that the methods for human tissue engineering and other types of tissue engineering are pretty much the same, but that researchers in the medical world don’t have to worry about scale and cost the same way that people trying to engineer a competitively priced Happy Meal do.
Still, Post says he thinks he can have a commercial product ready in five or six years. It won’t be a $3.79 Cultured Quarter Pounder with Cheese, but Post is confident that people will want it.
"If this gets accepted, and you can do this in an efficient and animal-friendly and environmentally friendly way, it has to at some point take over the market," he says, "or at least create a new market for itself. We are not targeting vegetarians; we are targeting all the meat eaters."
Shutterstock
Shutterstock
A pig in the backyard.
Shortly after she first heard about cultured meat, van der Weele, the bioethicist, held a series of workshops in which she asked participants how they felt about the strange new meat.
"When I first started to talk about cultured meat with people, first there were some responses of disgust — not as many as you might expect, but some — and people then said, ‘Well, this is not something I want to think about.’"
But then van der Weele observed something interesting. After just a brief conversation — sometimes only a few minutes — many who reacted negatively at first started to reconsider, van der Weele says. It seemed that just thinking about cultured meat forced people to confront the way we currently produce meat, she says. That, in turn, brought out all the uneasy feelings that strategic ignorance so conveniently keeps at bay.
"All of a sudden, it’s no longer a threat to think about meat as something that may be morally very satisfactory," she says.
Many of van der Weele’s workshop participants were especially taken with what she calls the "pig-in-the-backyard scenario." She and a colleague explained the scenario and how people reacted to it in a paper published back in 2013:
In the future we might all have a pig in our backyard or in our local community, from which some stem cells are taken every few weeks in order to grow our own meat, either in a machine on our kitchen sink or in a local factory. It is an idea that in some form or another often turns up in conversations on cultured meat. It typically takes the form of pigs or cows in urban farms or backyards, held as pets and serving as donors of muscle stem cells …
The degree of shared enthusiasm in response to this idea was remarkable; it was so large that the preferred future of cultured meat was completely clear, as far as the participants of this workshop were concerned. A combination of joy, inspiration and amazement characterized the atmosphere.
Oli Scarff/Getty Images
Oli Scarff/Getty Images
Looking into the future of meat.
For Datar, the future of cultured meat looks something like the current beer industry (they’re both, after all, just examples of biotechnology in big metal vats, she says). There could, for example, be giant meat factories — or "carneries" — out in rural areas, small artisanal ones in cities, and everything in between, she says.  Since there’s no clear way to patent the cell division process like there is with, say, GMOs, she says, this beer-like trajectory seems more probable than a future where just a few giant corporations churn out cultured meat for the masses.
Another crucial difference between cultured meat and GMOs, Datar says, is the fact that we’re already talking about cultured meat.
"The first GMO was for sale in '93, and the first Right to Know campaign was 2003, so there was a real feeling of betrayal that the public didn’t know what was going on. Whereas with cultured meat, we’re having this conversation way in advance of it being ready for market," she says.
But that’s if it’s ever ready for market. For now, the rest of what Wurgaft calls the "post-animal bioeconomy" seems to be taking off. Companies are already making animal-free rhino horns, spider silk, eggs, and milk. (The latter two started as New Harvest ventures and recently closed on $1.75 and 2 million in seed funding, respectively.) Culturing these kinds of products is easier than meat, Datar says, because it involves genetically engineering microbes to produce the necessary proteins — something that we’ve been doing for a long time to make things like insulin.
Wurgaft, who’s writing a book about cultured meat, says that for him, the interesting questions aren’t when or if or how lab-grown meat is going to take over the market. He prefers instead to think like an anthropologist, focusing on the culture and philosophy of cultured meat: Who are these people trying to grow meat in a lab? What are their motivations? Do they prefer to call their product cultured meat or just meat? What would a lab-grown meat industry mean for society?
Any predictions about the future of cultured meat would just add to the all the other clickbaity claims about the elusive "future of food," Wurgaft says.
"That narrative stops being interesting after three seconds," he says. "We don’t know what the future of food is, and we’re not gonna know by continuing to read the story."
And yet, many in the cultured meat world are selling us visions of the future. They, like practically every early-stage technologist since Gutenberg, have had to do so in order to attract investors.
Of course, we don’t know what our cyborg progeny will be eating decades from now: Insects? Soylent? Plant blood? Maybe cultured meat will revolutionize the meat industry, or maybe it’ll turn out to be just another overhyped fantasy. Either way, perhaps the most constructive thing we can do now is simply consider the possibility and face up to our strategic ignorance in the process. And we’re sorry, but that means you may just have to walk away from the hot dog stand.
Grist is a nonprofit news site that uses humor to shine a light on big green issues. Get their email newsletter here, and follow them on Facebook and Twitter.
In August 2012, Mitt Romney gave his only interview on Spanish-language radio of the presidential campaign — with a station Democratic strategist (and Martin O'Malley adviser) Gabriela Domenzain calls "the most conservative Cuban radio station in Miami." With only one chance to make a good impression in a swing state — one in which Latinos are a little more open to Republicans than in other states — he just needed not to screw up. And he got through the policy questions without major error. But "at the end of it," says Domenzain, "the guy's like, 'You're in Miami — are you excited? What do you like about being here?'
"And Romney," she continues, "is thinking about — he's going to a fruit stand later." So he told host Carlos Santana, "I am a big fan of mango, papaya, and guava."
Record scratch. "Papaya" is Cuban slang for female genitalia, in the nastiest way. The gaffe turned Romney into a tremendous punch line among Latinos.
Could better preparation from a Latino communications team have saved Mitt Romney from his love of tropical fruit? Maybe, maybe not. One of Romney's major Spanish-language TV interviews, on Univision, turned out similarly badly; the audience was more interested in whether Romney had intentionally darkened his skin with makeup than in anything he said.
The two stumbles might not have made as much of a splash if Romney had been more generous with Spanish-language media in general (earlier in the campaign he'd gotten attention in the English-language press for how little access he was giving to Spanish media).  And if his campaign had been more effective at reaching Latino voters by other means, the candidate himself would have mattered less. But by Romney's own admission, his operation underinvested in reaching out to Latino voters — a mistake he's called the biggest of his campaign.

Poor Mitt Romney. If only he'd known to call this fruta bomba. (Viktar Malyshchyts via Shutterstock)
This problem isn't just Mitt Romney's. National candidates in both parties are still trying to figure out how to campaign effectively in the Latino community.
Campaigns have gotten a lot better at it over the past decade — but that's largely, if not exclusively, due to the efforts of a group of Latino strategists. Latinos on the inside of campaigns have figured out the challenges with reaching out to Latino voters; designed smarter communications and get-out-the-vote campaigns to reach them; and, sometimes, fought with (or simply worked around) campaign bureaucrats to execute their plans.
The Obama 2012 campaign was a rousing success for them. Not only did Obama trounce Romney among Latinos 71 to 27 percent, but a record 11.2 million Latinos turned out to vote — making up 10 percent of the electorate for the first time ever. But the aftermath of that election hasn't worked out exactly as Latino strategists hoped. They hoped other political professionals would be spurred by their success to start learning about Latino outreach and integrating it into all aspects of campaigns. Instead, Latino strategists often find themselves siloed into "Latino work" — and see Latino work cut off from the rest of the campaign.
Presidential candidates who are already looking toward the 2016 general election are definitely thinking about how Latinos fit into his or her campaign — not just as voters, but as staff. And conversations with several veteran Latino strategists earlier this year showed that they're looking at this election as a chance for candidates and political elites to prove 2012 was just the beginning. The strategists are willing to work as hard as always to reach out to their community and get them to the polls, but they feel the jury's still out on whether the DC political establishment understands what Latino voters — and Latino operatives — have to offer.

Sometimes organizers can find Latinos just by "getting in the car." (David McNew/Getty)
Veteran strategist Fernand Amandi was a lead consultant for Hillary Clinton in 2008 and Obama in 2012; his firm, Bendixen and Amandi in Miami, is the longest-established Latino pollster. In other words, he knows how to tell a mediocre Latino outreach effort from a sincere one. When I asked him the difference, he answered immediately: "Beginning research and paid media in the last three months before election day, as opposed to a year and a half or two years out before the election."
It sounds obvious. But as recently as 10 years ago, it wasn't something political campaigns were doing. Amandi points to the John Kerry campaign (where Amandi himself worked as a staffer in Florida) as an example of a "very inferior Hispanic outreach effort," especially when put up against the "superior" Latino outreach of George W. Bush's re-election campaign. Bush got 44 percent of the Latino vote in 2004 — a high-water mark for the party.
In early 2015, some Democratic Latino strategists and advocates were uneasy about the whiteness of Hillary Clinton's inner circle. When I asked them what indications they were looking for to indicate that Clinton was serious about Latino voters, they told me they were watching to see when she hired her first Latino/a staffer and who that person was. Clinton has more or less cleared that hurdle: in the early months of her campaign, she's hired former congressional candidate Amanda Renteria, formerly-unauthorized immigrant activist Lorella Praeli, and former Harry Reid staffer Jorge Silva.
Even get-out-the-vote efforts — which, unlike advertising, tend to start much earlier in the campaign cycle to register as many potential voters as possible — have often put off Latino outreach until late in the cycle. Alida Garcia, a strategist who was national Latino vote deputy director for President Obama's reelection campaign, explains that's partly because Latinos are especially hard to reach. "The current voter file [records of registered voters] is stacked against a productive Latino voter engagement program, because half of us aren’t registered in the first place — and the data we do have gets inaccurate quickly, because we move around. Or we’re talked to less because we’re not at home, we’re at work."
So campaigns often start with the "low-hanging fruit" — voters who are already registered, or who are easily reached — and turn toward harder-to-reach voters only afterward. But Garcia points out that's a backward strategy. The challenges that Latinos pose "aren't insurmountable," she says, "they just require eyes and ears primed to Latino vote needs on the front end."
You can only start Latino outreach early if you know where to start. Political campaigns have gotten immeasurably better at using data to target voters and potential voters over the past several elections, but their tools are only as good as the quality of their data. When the data is incomplete or underdeveloped, as it is with Latinos, there isn't much the analytics can do.

Sometimes data "can't find the Latinos." (Frank Polich/Getty)
Garcia talks about going to "one battleground state with a statistically significant Latino population" in 2012 (she won't say which one) to watch a presentation from the campaign's analytics team — only to hear them say that they "couldn't find the Latinos."
"And no one reacted," she said. "It was crazy."
Her solution? "Getting in your car, driving around a neighborhood, and talking to people." It might seem more scattershot and less sophisticated than the data-based work a modern campaign is used to, but that data-based work wouldn't be possible if campaign operatives of the past hadn't gotten out in the car to figure out where people were. And that's just what Garcia did with campaign staff in 2012, in the swing state where the data hadn't been able to identify Latino neighborhoods.
Even at a national level, doing independent research on Latinos can be surprisingly rewarding. Amandi says that in the Obama 2012 re-election campaign, "early polling and focus groups revealed that far from being an albatross, or something to run away from, the passage of the Affordable Care Act was something to run on when it came to the Hispanic community." That was a surprise to the campaign — and it was one they struggled with. "I don't want to say it was a source of tension within the campaign," says Amandi, "but it was certainly a source of controversy, because they were very reluctant to lead with that accomplishment in the general market. But in the Hispanic market, it was what we led paid advertising with." And those ads, adds Gabriela Domenzain (the campaign's national director for Hispanic press), actually came out ahead of any ads the campaign released in English.
After the 2012 campaign, Domenzain says, she wrote a thank-you email to the reporters on her press lists — in both Spanish and English. Many of the Spanish-language reporters, she says, wrote back — saying things like, "'I've been a journalist in,' say, Georgia, 'for the past 25 years for a periodical that comes out weekly. Never have I been contacted by a presidential campaign, nor have I been given the info in the language that I need it.' Or, 'Thank you for this information. We want it, and it never comes to us.'"
"Can you imagine?" she continues. "A DC reporter saying, 'I don't get information'?" (To the contrary, she points out, English-language political reporters are famous for complaining about the volume of email they get from campaigns.)

Sure, but what language do your press releases go out in? (Joe Raedle/Getty)
Some campaign staff can even make it harder for Spanish-language materials to get out into the community. Garcia says that in 2012, some "organizers on Latino turf couldn't get their managers to realize they needed Spanish-language materials." They ended up going directly to Garcia at campaign headquarters, over Twitter direct message or Facebook chat, to request the materials and get them sent directly, without going through their managers. "Call it entrepreneurial," she says with a shrug.
Political insiders have started becoming more aware of the concept of "cultural competency." The long definition of "cultural competency" is starting with what your target voters are like and working backward from there, rather than using a one-size-fits-all approach or assuming whatever resources you have are what the campaign needs. The short definition is: "Don't just translate your English stuff into Spanish."
That's not just a metaphor — it's a specific piece of advice about campaign communications. In 2004, says Amandi, "the messaging that was done going into the general election was wholesale translated into Spanish." That's still often the case today.

Not every message is as easy to translate as this one is. ((Brian) via Wikimedia Commons)
An audience that consumes mostly Spanish-language media is going to know about different things than one that watches the news and reads newspapers in English. "You're dealing with a community that is not reached out to consistently," Domenzain says. And that means certain hot-button issues and phrases just blow right past them. "The Latino community in Spanish-language drive-time radio doesn't know who the Koch brothers are."
"If you say, 'Oh my god, Romney's going to kill Obamacare,' in English it might work — because they've been plastered with Obamacare and the political fight. But Spanish —  especially Spanish on the radio and television — it's, 'What is Obamacare?' And then you can go into the benefits of how it helps you, and then you go to the contrast of 'Republicans want to take it away.'"
To deal with the information gap in 2012, Domenzain and her team ended up drafting, casting, and recording totally independent ads in Spanish. Ironically, that meant it was Domenzain's job to try to translate those ads into English  — so that top campaign staff could approve the ad's content. "Before, they'd try to translate into Spanish and approximate the English," she says. "Here, it was, 'Look, heads up, this is what it says [in Spanish]. It's the truth. I don't know how to translate it well, because this is not about translation."
Fully 83 percent of Latino voters are fluent in English — and that's higher among young Latinos, who are especially important campaign targets. Sometimes campaigns' communications shops acknowledge that "Latino communications" and "Spanish communications" aren't always the same — one strategist, for example, insisted that the office treat outlets like the Los Angeles Times and Miami Herald as Latino news outlets. But often, they don't.
When it comes to ads, in particular, campaigns usually default to "the strange practice of only communicating to Latino voters about their issue priorities on television in Spanish," in Garcia's words. She has no patience for it, especially in states like Colorado, where many Latinos are bilingual. "This practice does not match the data," she insists.
Furthermore, remembering that Latinos also speak English might prevent campaigns from saying things in English that they don't want Latinos to hear. Republican candidates often get hit particularly hard on doing this with their immigration positions: a candidate will say one thing during the primary (say, "self-deportation"), go silent on the issue in English during the general election, and put out ads in Spanish touting support for some sort of "reforma migratoria." But Democrats aren't immune. In February 2015, during the shutdown fight over the Department of Homeland Security, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee was criticized for a robocall warning that terrorists were coming over the border from Mexico and Republicans weren't helping stop them.
The first thing any Latino-vote expert will say is that there's barely such a thing as the "Latino vote." Latinos in North Carolina have different concerns from Latinos in California; reaching sixth-generation Latinos in New Mexico requires a different strategy from reaching first-generation, newly naturalized Latinos in Nevada. Domenzain emphasizes that Florida alone has 22 media markets — "and each media market is different" in the ethnic and socioeconomic makeup of its Latinos.
So if you just make a single Spanish-language ad, she says, you're not doing cultural competency right. "If you put a Cuban [in an ad] speaking to Mexicans, there will automatically be something in the Spanish that triggers, 'There's a difference.' It's not just translating, it's trans-interpreting something for a particular community you want to motivate to vote."

An Obama 2012 ad featuring a Colombian-American in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. (BarackObama.com via Youtube)
This is something, Domenzain says, that even some Latinos don't automatically understand. "A lot of the bilingual communicators at this level spent a lot of time in Miami, because Miami, unlike anywhere else, is a melting pot of Latino culture. I'm Mexican, but I grew up very aware that not all Latinos in the US were Mexican, because I grew up in Miami."
Domenzain is very proud of the effort she and her team made in 2012 to find appropriate spokespeople in each state. "In Nevada, we used a young Mexican," she says. "In the I-4 corridor [in central Florida], a Puerto Rican woman who was a veteran." And understanding the diversity of the Latino vote can also help a campaign understand what issues matter most to Latinos in the particular community or state they're trying to reach.
Here's the problem facing Latino strategists right now: they've shown they can use their knowledge to win campaigns, and they've shown that campaigns need them on board to avoid dumb mistakes. But to use the old expression, they hoped 2012 would teach campaigns to fish; instead, campaigns have just kept expecting the same Latino strategists to give them more fish.
"Democrats are better positioned," says Luis Miranda — who worked for the DNC in 2005 to '09 before serving as director of Hispanic media for President Obama — "but often hire minority outreach staff just to check a box. If they're going to keep their lead, they need to empower diverse talent throughout the party, campaigns, and allied organizations — and not just on minority outreach but in every aspect of their operations." This is particularly stark when it comes to hiring consultants: a study from PowerPAC+ found that in 2010 and 2012, less than 2 percent of the money the Democratic party spent on consultants went to minority-owned businesses.
That's frustrating to strategists personally, because it makes them feel like they're being kept from other career goals. (And multiple strategists told me how frequently they've been the only Latino/a in a meeting.) But it's also, to them, an indication that Washington isn't going to learn from past mistakes and get permanently better at Latino outreach.
"I know we talk about hiring and promoting people of color all of the time like a broken record," says Garcia, "but it’s because it really does matter in running culturally nuanced campaigns." Hiring Latino field organizers is one thing, she says; hiring managers experienced with Latino campaign operations to guide those organizers is another. Garcia's one of the founders of Inclusv, an organization that's working to connect political professionals of color – including Latinos — with campaigns.

It's not just the ground-level organizers; it's the people managing them. (Joe Raedle/Getty)
Creating a pipeline of diverse talent is hard, sure. But strategists have some suggestions: don't treat "Latino engagement" as a separate arm of the campaign. Don't automatically task your Latino staff with Latino outreach. Don't just hire Latinos in the West. And don't just hire a Latino to have a Latino face among your high-level campaign staff; if strategists can tell that someone is a symbolic hire, they're not going to be confident that your campaign really cares about inclusion.
At the end of the day, candidates who aren't themselves Latino will always be prone to cultural gaffes. They'll always like papaya. But someone in the campaign needs to minimize the effects of those. The question going forward is whether those people are a dedicated, even tokenized, "Latino engagement" operation, or whether Latino outreach is just a part of running a 21st-century campaign.
This summer was full of men, many of them superheroes, all of them trying to save the world. There's a little of that spirit in The Man From U.N.C.L.E., a tale of spy versus spy versus international criminal organization bent on procuring nuclear warheads. The movie was marketed that way, leaning into its James Bond/Captain America-esqe elements and focusing on its pomaded, square-jawed hero Napoleon Solo (Henry Cavill).
Rating

In a Marvel or Bond movie, Solo would surely be the all-American brawler ready to pound faces and save the day. But director Guy Ritchie is less inclined to push the hero, and the film, down that path. Instead, what he's created in The Man From U.N.C.L.E. is a stylish, much-needed departure from the stone-faced seriousness of this summer's blockbusters — a charming, stylish stunner of a film that no one saw coming.

Alicia Vikander in The Man from U.N.C.L.E. (Warner Bros.)
What makes The Man From U.N.C.L.E so good is how much fun it has. It isn't concerned with being a great, sweeping film, nor is it tethered to some hulking franchise. Sure, there's a rather dour nuclear bomb threat at the end of this tunnel, but Ritchie and co-writer Lionel Wigram are more concerned with floating the audience along on the bubbly journey it takes to get there. Even the action sequences are more concerned with style and humor than with violence.
The movie is based on the '60s television series of the same name, and pays homage to its source material with a cheeky self-awareness. I wouldn't call The Man From U.N.C.L.E. a true period spy-fi. It looks — chandelier earrings, tailored tweeds, oversized Jackie O' sunglasses, geometric prints, chunky eyeliner — like the later seasons of Mad Men, but it's more wry and more than willing to laugh at itself.
The rakish Solo and stern Russian agent Illya Kuryakin (Armie Hammer) have to team up not only to stop an Italian crime mistress (Elizabeth Debicki) from inciting nuclear war, but also to help out the most stunning car mechanic in all of East Germany, Gaby Teller (Alicia Vikander), along the way.
Cavill and Hammer are the film's most recognizable names, and the characters they play are departures for both. Cavill takes a break from playing the stern, overly serious Superman to crack (largely successful) one-liners as the dashing, bespoke-suited Solo. Hammer, better known for his Parent Trap-ish role as the Winkelvoss twins in The Social Network, has the more serious role, but it's no less comedic, with many laughs coming at the expense of Kuryakin's dry persona. Both Cavill and Hammer are game, showing off welcome facets of their acting arsenal that we didn't know existed. The two also share an irresistible chemistry.
While the male leads deliver strong performances and the best bromance of summer, the show really belongs to the film's women: Debicki and Vikander.
In the hands of Vikander, whom you might not have been able to shake since she was playing a sinister AI in Ex Machina, Gaby is an Imperator Furiosa dressed as Holly Golightly. Not just a damsel in distress, she gets to do much more than you expect (one of the refreshing ways the movie differentiates itself from heisty spy-fis like it). That isn't to say that she can't play charming. One winning scene she commands will have you Googling Solomon Burke's discography after the film ends.
Debicki's Victoria Vinciguerra is the polished, dazzling inverse of Vikander's Gaby. All eyeliner and blonde chignon, Victoria wants to start a nuclear war. But the true heist of the movie is Debicki's grand larceny of every scene she's in. Debicki displays a flawless command of both comedy and icy evil as the effortlessly chic Victoria. If there's one minor crime of the movie, it's that it gives too few moments to Debicki.
Elizabeth Debicki in The Man from U.N.C.L.E. (Warner Bros.)
Toward the end of the film, Ritchie leaves the window open for a sequel. That isn't without merit.
His film is as good as the two blockbusters Marvel released this summer. I'd argue it's just as funny and heisty as Ant-Man and its sun-spun setting is more fun to look at than Avengers: Age of Ultron. The reason it works so well is that it feels like its own standalone thing, rather than being a cog in a franchise machine. For two hours, the film feels like a vacation. You don't need to think about future plots, a possibility of a solo Solo movie, or Gaby getting married when it's over.
But ultimately, The Man From U.N.C.L.E. is a perfect summer fling. And like all summer flings, there's no need to extend it.
Stories don't need sagas to be perfect. The magic in The Man From U.N.C.L.E. comes from its surprising bravery to go against the grain and its willingness to be a pocket of joy. It's proof to studios that in this age of sequels, threequels, and whatever comes after that (Infinity War?), you can still create something fresh and spry.
Avengers: Age of Ultron and Ant-Man, this is not. There aren't any superpowers. There isn't a fight scene that will take your breath away. The actors in U.N.C.L.E. don't have the same bulky résumés. And there is (so far) no sequel I'm looking forward to the way I am with Captain America: Civil War or Infinity War down the line. The Man From U.N.C.L.E. is not the action movie of the summer — but it's the one I enjoyed the most.
Donald Trump has a better shot at winning the Republican nomination for president than almost anybody will allow right now. Yes, he's on the same trajectory as a lot of fly-by-night candidates from the 2012 cycle, and it's easy to imagine he'll collapse sooner rather than later.
But I don't think his collapse is imminent. I think he's in this for the long haul, and the reason I think so is a little weird.
One of Trump's seeming weaknesses — his long association with reality TV — is, I'm convinced, actually a strength. He's a terrific TV presence, and he seems to be adapting his "role" within the campaign, in real time, no less.
He's aware of the storylines, and he reacts to various challenges to his authority as if they're just weird turns the producers came up with behind the scenes. This should come as no surprise. This is how you win in reality TV, a format Trump is eminently comfortable in.
Donald Trump's true antecedent isn't Newt Gingrich, Michele Bachmann, or even Mitt Romney. It's Richard Hatch, the guy who won the first season of Survivor.
Hatch really doesn't get enough credit for how monumentally influential he was to television. (I was originally going to say "America," but I didn't want to push my luck.) That first season of Survivor was like nothing television had seen up until that point, and by essentially overturning all of the rules of the game in a handful of calculated moments, Hatch gleefully styled himself as the contestant you loved to hate and invented reality TV as we know it. The producers were only too happy to follow along.
Hatch invented the alliance — the voting bloc that would carry a contestant to the finals. He double-crossed others with impunity. And he generally seemed to get a huge kick out of behaving like a total asshole on TV. Hatch understood, on some intuitive level, that we wanted to see people give in to their own worst, most amoral impulses on our TV sets, and where he went, reality TV followed. Reality TV wasn't for the nice or pure of heart. It was for the nasty, and in that first season, Hatch alone seemed to grasp this.
The most important thing about Hatch — and the thing he has most in common with Trump — was his unflappability. You could throw literally anything at the man, and he would seemingly shrug it off with a smile. Yeah, that was probably an invention of editors, who smoothed out moments when Hatch might have blown his cool. But Hatch still gave those editors lots of great material to work with.

What's also notable here is the way Hatch drew to himself a coalition of people who wouldn't necessarily have kept company with him in other situations, simply because he rarely blinked and seemed like he knew what he was doing in a most unusual situation. (Remember: Survivor is, for all intents and purposes, the birth of a TV genre. Hatch was inventing the template.) In particular, the elderly ex-military man Rudy Boesch, who indulged in casual homophobia, immediately fell in line with Richard's plan, even though Richard was, indeed, gay.
Richard was the one guy who seemed like he could see the whole picture, simply because he didn't let things throw him, and that caused others to gravitate toward him, even as they were fairly certain he would stab them in the back eventually.

Survivor made the American career of its producer, reality TV impresario Mark Burnett. And for one of his next tricks, Burnett turned from the wilderness to the boardroom with his next mega-hit,The Apprentice — the show that would return Donald Trump to the American limelight.
Watch again, if you can, Trump's confrontation with Megyn Kelly over his previous misogynistic statements. Try to ignore, if possible, how horrible those statements are. Instead, focus entirely on how Trump carries himself.


For starters, Trump doesn't shrink from Kelly's challenge. He stays ramrod straight at the podium, and he doesn't shift or move around. That's pretty basic stuff, but you'd be surprised how many politicians who are under the gun forget all about it.
Now notice how he uses his hands. His gestures are kept close to his body, so they don't fly out too far from the audience's attention or distract from the speaker at hand. He's essentially keeping the center of the screen focused entirely on him, even when the Fox News chyron pushes him into the left half of the screen. This is, again, something politicians know to do (keeping your gestures small and forceful conveys control over your own emotions), but it's hard to remember when in the middle of a stressful situation.
But also look at how good Trump is at sliding what he wants to say in between what Kelly is saying. He holds up a single finger, the universal symbol of "My turn." He waits for just the right pause to jump in. And he doesn't let Kelly continuing to speak deter him. He knows exactly how to do this, because, in so many ways, Trump is just back on reality television at this moment. If anything, he makes Kelly seem like she's out of control of the situation, on a night when Kelly's performance was generally very good. And that's to say nothing of how quickly he comes up with this little quip to turn the audience to his side.

Donald Trump knows exactly how to play to the camera. (Fox News)
Yes, some of what makes Trump good at this sort of thing is that he's got ample business experience. But even more than that, he's got ample reality TV experience, and he learned from Burnett, who learned from Hatch, that someone who seemed a little imperious, aloof, and utterly unconcerned with what others were doing around him could make for riveting television.
NBC actually promoted The Apprentice in this way for years. You won't believe what Trump does next! But despite his frequently strange decisions, he rarely was ridden down as out of touch. Part of that is the simple suspicion most of us have that reality TV is heavily controlled by the producers (and thus Trump was as well). But just as much is due to the fact that Trump held court in the boardroom in a way that made everything he did, no matter how out there, seem like a perfectly logical decision.
Indeed, watch this famous firing of (as the YouTube description says) not one, not two, not three, but four people, and you'll see glimpses of the Trump who took the debate by storm.

We have a tendency to write off reality TV in America as lowest-common-denominator entertainment, because a lot of it is. But the specific storytelling forms and cinematic tricks of reality have more or less become central parts of our current cultural vernacular. Is it any wonder they've entered politics as well?
When people talk about Trump as a reality TV personality, then, they're trying to ride him down, to suggest he's unserious or simply there for entertainment value. And all of that may well be true.
But this ignores that reality TV is really popular, and Trump is really good at being on reality TV. And, more specifically, the skills he learned on reality TV make him better equipped to handle tough challenges and big pushback than other candidates who've gotten in similar hot water. The usual way to deal with something like what Kelly accuses Trump of is quick contrition, followed by a pivot to a talking point or two.
But Trump is, as Ezra Klein has noted, without shame, because he's a reality TV character who's escaped into a presidential race. He avoids the contrition and jumps straight to whatever he wants to talk about. It's the debate equivalent of the reality TV confessional, where the contestant tells us what he's really thinking.
That's what makes him more dangerous than many political observers will allow. As we saw with Richard Hatch, unflappability plays beautifully on television, and it makes for wildly entertaining viewing. The contents of Trump's message are loathsome to many, including many Republicans, but the package Trump is selling them in is market-tested and ready to ship. Compared with many of his competitors, especially, Trump seems to be playing at a whole other level when it comes to live television.
The smart money is still on Trump eventually self-combusting, crumbling under the weight of his own hubris. But, then, the smart money in that first season of Survivor was on the fellow members of Richard's alliance realizing he didn't have their best interests at heart and tossing him overboard — and that simply never happened.
On television, never look for the person who's playing the game best. Look for the person who's realized the rules are only a suggestion. That's the person the audience wants to watch — and that's the person who just might win.
The finale is over, the reviews are in, and the consensus is clear: True Detective season two swung hard — and whiffed.
Vox's Todd VanDerWerff wrote a great piece about all the ways Nic Pizzolatto's sophomore effort amounted to a big, sloppy mess — but in between all the painful exposition and byzantine plotting, there were flashes of a more interesting show: weird occult tinges, vivid dreamlike worlds, dark humor. True Detective season two may not have worked on the big-picture level, but it still had some pleasures to offer up.
So, putting my own frustrations with this season aside (although seriously, how would Ani — a workaholic detective with a dangerous, demanding job and some not inconsiderable intimacy issues — not be on the most foolproof form of birth control known to woman?), here are seven moments that kept me watching, and talking about the show, week after week.
Remember the halcyon days of episode two, before the show had squandered the majority of audience goodwill on endless red herrings? The spooky, indelible image of a man in a bird mask coming out of nowhere to blast Ray with a shotgun (twice!) gave the season its first real narrative jolt. You could practically hear the audience thinking, Finally! Here's where things really start cooking. And you can relive that thrill over and over with this handy GIF:

In between life and death, there is this guy.
HBO
Much has been written about the David Lynchian touches of surreality that crept in around the edges of True Detective. And never was this clearer than in the beginning of "Maybe Tomorrow," when Ray finds himself conversing with his dad in an empty bar while someone lip-syncs Conway Twitty on a stage nearby. (Their conversation even got a cool callback in the season finale, if you happened to remember what was said.)
The scene is odd, it's beautiful, it's evocative — and it no doubt led more than a few audience members to put Twin Peaks back in their Netflix queues.
Poor awkward, redheaded Chad. Not only does he have a father who really has no clue how to interact with his son, but his mother has spent his entire life thinking he's the product of her own darkest hour. And on top of all that, said parents look like Colin Farrell and Abigail Spencer, while he looks like ... well, himself.
Is it any wonder he finds such comfort in pizza and the TV show equivalent of pizza, a.k.a. Friends? He's both such a pathetic symbol of his parents' dysfunction and a kid who somehow manages to be relatively normal despite the chaos raining down around him that it's hard not to have a soft spot for him. Chin up, Chad. Life gets better after high school!
One could cynically say that the big action sequence of "Church in Ruins" was just an excuse to get Rachel McAdams into a dress. But it was also one of the most stylish moments of the whole season and smartly used sex not to arouse but instead to horrify, underlining the corruption with which the show's whole world is tainted. As I wrote at the time:
Yes, there were an inordinate number of naked people in the scene, thus fulfilling HBO’s T&A quota — but through Ani’s blurred, horrified eyes the tableaux became a nightmare funhouse carnival of flesh, all blank stares and the motions of intimacy with none of the emotion. And when her terrible companion leans in and says, "Would you like to watch for a while?" the disgusted look on Ani’s face implicates the audience too. This is what you find sexy, this violent, cruel exploitation? she seems to ask. What on another HBO show might have been shot to titillate here is warped to show the ugliness at the core. It’s not subtle, but it is effective, and even after Ani manages to escape with her missing girl, that sense of soupy, nightmarish terror lingers.
It's not the line that I like here — I promise I'm not condoning overt racial commentary — but rather the mere fact that Vince Vaughn got to say something that even hinted that his character possessed a sense of humor.
For the majority of the season, Frank was such a strange, stiff character (and Vaughn so buttoned-up inside him) that any inkling of the actor's usual sly, fast-talking irreverence was cause for celebration. See also: "That was a fuckin' big diamond!" as Jordan threw away her wedding ring in the finale, and "Sober up — you might realize you're getting fucked," to a sauced Mayor Chessani in "Black Maps and Motel Rooms."
This show may be called True Detective, but Ray Velcoro facilitates one of the big breaks in the case not by searching for evidence but by grinding Dr. Pitlor's disconcertingly smooth face into a fine powder. It was over-the-top, it was gratuitous, it was ... kinda hilarious when you think about it!
Remember, this is the same show in which Ray takes brass knuckles to his son's bullying classmate's father, before telling the kid he will "butt-fuck your father with your mom’s headless corpse on the front lawn" — and the only consequences he suffers are from his ex-wife. Fine art this is not, but it's satisfying on a pulpy level that made me wish Pizzolatto had been willing to lean into that aspect of the show a bit more.
Never forget.

When 2007's Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer ended, it seemed like the franchise had plowed its way to rock bottom.
It was easy to see why. Galactus, a powerful, godlike planet consumer in the comic books, was turned into a cloud with the appearance (and personality) of a sea cucumber. The entire movie was bathed in weightless CGI culminating in a final battle that had the Human Torch (a pre–Captain America Chris Evans) absorb the powers of his fellow superheroes and fight Dr. Doom (Julian McMahon), who had absorbed the powers of the Silver Surfer. Directed by Tim Story and written by Don Payne and Mark Frost, Rise of the Silver Surfer cobbled together a 37 percent on Rotten Tomatoes.
Thirty-seven percent isn't just failing, it's failing impressively. If doctors only delivered 37 percent of babies, our population would be struggling. If only 37 percent of highways were built, we'd have roads to nowhere. And just imagine if Chris Evans only had 37 percent of his good looks.
Thirty-seven percent feels a lot like rock bottom.
But a new depth of terribleness was found on Friday, when Fox's reboot, Fantastic Four, absolutely murdered what was left of the franchise. Fantastic Four's death wasn't humane. This was no quick knife between the eyes. Rather, it felt like there had been an open attempt to make the movie stink. Bad acting, bad writing, and bad direction combined to create an unmitigated garbage fire that's currently charting at 9 percent on Rotten Tomatoes.
As with any wrongful death, there's a desire for an autopsy to figure out what went wrong and why. We want to know who is responsible, but usually studios don't allow this. Then something funny happened.
Director Josh Trank tweeted to the world that this Fantastic Four movie wasn't his doing. And just as quickly as it appeared, his claim disappeared. Since then, anonymous source after source has emerged from the shadows to flesh out just how this movie spun out of control.
Trank's outburst isn't just a fit of anger or embarrassment. The conflict between him and Fox points to a bigger problem — a conflict bigger than his awful movie that spans the entire superhero film genre. Is there enough creative freedom for the director of a superhero movie? And further, when it comes to a superhero film, does a director even matter?
The reviews for Fantastic Four (including mine) were not kind. It is impossible to find a review in English that sings the praises of the film. And Trank has to be aware of this. On August 6, Trank (or someone with access to Trank's account) snitched on Twitter, telling the movie's critics that he'd had a better movie in his back pocket but wasn't allowed to make it:
(Twitter/Josh Trank)
(Let's have a brief pause to note how this tweet misspells "received.")
Trank (or someone with access to Trank's Twitter account) deleted the tweet shortly thereafter.
But the damage was already done.
Trank's tweet created a narrative in which Fox stifled and strangled his vision for Fantastic Four. The final version, according to this tweet, is something that Trank didn't approve of but was forced to go ahead with anyway. Trank's outburst also implied that there must have been a lot of conflict going on behind the scenes.
The reason one might be inclined to believe Trank is that we know he is capable of churning out a good superhero film. In 2012 he directed Chronicle, a found-footage movie that explored the horror of what happens when teens get superpowers. Chronicle was clever, it helped solidify star status for Michael B. Jordan (also in Fantastic Four) and Dane DeHaan, and it was critically acclaimed, scoring an 85 percent on Rotten Tomatoes.
Because Trank has shown that he can be better than Fantastic Four and because Fantastic Four was so bad, there's an understandable desire to believe him, even if his tweet was laced with sour grapes.
Sources close to Fantastic Four backed up the tweet, telling Entertainment Weekly that Trank clashed with Fox:
According to several individuals who worked on the movie, the studio delayed casting and script approvals, slashed the budget by tens of millions from what was originally promised during the development phase, and tried to force last-minute script changes to the film just as principal photography was beginning.
In the months before the movie's release, reports came out that there were massive changes, sets had to rebuilt, and reshoots were scheduled. These are almost always signs that a movie is in a dodgy state.
Trank's tweet — 140 characters or less — started a war. In the hours that followed, and even with its deletion, a different set of anonymous sources told EW the director was at fault. EW reported:
Several high level sources close to Fantastic Four – spoken to independently of each other – have told EW the rift on set was not about creative differences but rather combative and abusive behavior Trank demonstrated toward the crew, producers, studio and even the stars. It’s partly linked to Trank’s personal disputes – involving accusations of deliberate damage done to the house he was renting, as revenge over a dispite [sic] with the landlord – which sources say eventually manifested on set as hostility and frustration from Trank.
Trank allegedly had beef with both Miles Teller and Kate Mara, who play Reed Richards and Sue Storm. On August 2, Mara and Teller revealed to the BBC that they hadn't even seen a finished version of the film yet.
These reports of conflict tie into Trank's life and history outside Fantastic Four too. In late April of 2015, it was announced that Trank was not going to direct the second Star Wars standalone film. Initial reports said the decision was made after reports came out that Trank was "erratic" on the set of Fantastic Four. But according to the Hollywood Reporter, Fox said that (at the time) it was "very happy with the movie and we can’t wait for audiences to see it," but the studio allowed that there "were definitely some bumps in the road."
This "abusive behavior" allegation fills in the gaps. It also makes Trank look like a liability that other people had to pick up the slack for. That's not something you want to hear if you're a studio inclined to choose Trank to direct your film.
At the heart of all these cracks and fissures is a glimpse at the balance of power in moviemaking.
To be clear, there wasn't just one thing wrong with Fantastic Four — it had many glaringly terrible parts working in unison to give us a Voltron of garbage. The pacing was awful (something you would attribute to directing and editing), the actors were lackluster, the lines the actors were saying were stale, and the overall concept was a mess.
In this case, Trank directed the film and shares screenwriting credits on it. But you can't help but wonder about the checks and balances at play. Were Kate Mara and Miles Teller really complicit with lines like "Dr. Doom over here"? Who decided to reshoot scenes with Mara and that terrible wig? And there's the sense that a lot of parts of this movie (the scenes when Reed and Ben are kids, or the scenes right after the heroes get their powers) felt more in line with Trank and his work on Chronicle than other parts of the movie.
When movies are critiqued, the bulk of the ownership usually falls upon the director. Recently, we saw something similar happen to Amy Schumer's Trainwreck. Though Schumer had screenwriting credits, said that this movie had parts borrowed from her life, and starred in the film, critics attributed flaws in the movie's story to director Judd Apatow.
"Judd Apatow is the director, and in the end, you can't escape the feeling that somehow Schumer's vision has been wrestled into the template that nearly all of his movies … follow," the Village Voice's Stephanie Zacharek wrote.  "One in which the comforts of conventional partnerships and family life are what we should all aspire to, even though we may pretend to be interested in tawdry things like casual sex and excessive partying."
With Fantastic Four, things are different. Trank directed and co-wrote the movie. You can assume his voice is all over the movie, but it's unclear how much Simon Kinberg and Jeremy Slater, the two other screenwriters, contributed or how much (or little) Trank listened to them. It gets even murkier since Kinberg, who, by virtue of writing the hit movie X-Men: Days of Future Past, has Fox's confidence (Kinberg is writing Fox's X-Men: Apocalypse) and was also a producer on Fantastic Four. If Fox wasn't happy with Trank, it could have caused conflict with Kinberg.
The idea of too many bosses is a reality when it comes to a studio tentpole film. Max Landis, who wrote Chronicle, explained that not having enough independence was behind Trank's frustrations. When the two worked on Chronicle together, there weren't as many people involved:

Chronicle was an incredibly rare and easy ride. I loved writing the script. I enjoyed our producer, John Davis, and our exec, Steve.



But Chronicle was a complete fluke. We had so much control because the movie was, in relation to other movies that year, TINY.



A movie like Fantastic Four, an assignment with a lot riding on it, was always going to have a tremendous amount of cooks in the kitchen.


Even though Fantastic Four was terrible, the deeply cynical side of me believes Fox doesn't care how bad it was. The reality is that Fox has to produce movies by a certain date to retain the rights to its Marvel characters. Fox would, no doubt, prefer a good movie that makes piles of money. But even with disaster, it's managed to keep the rights to the Fantastic Four.
Trank's fight with Fox might ultimately damage his career. He's now seen as a directorial liability whom large studios might think twice about hiring to direct a franchise blockbuster. He may ultimately have to do a bevy of smaller, independent projects or turn to television.
But Trank's experience isn't a unique issue. Over the past year, there have been several talented directors who have fallen out with their studio or had disputes over comic book films.
In May 2014, director Edgar Wright (Shaun of the Dead) left Ant-Man because of "differences  in their vision of the film," Marvel and Wright said in a joint statement. Wright's script still served as the basis for the film's eventual screenplay.
One year later, around the time Avengers: Age of Ultron launched, Joss Whedon came clean about the creative disputes he'd had with Marvel and how "unpleasant" they became. Whedon mentioned an instance in which Marvel held one of his scenes in Avengers: Age of Ultron hostage until one that Marvel wanted, but Whedon didn't, was included.
And just last month, Selma director Ava DuVernay announced that she wouldn't be directing Marvel's Black Panther movie. In a statement, DuVernay explained the movie would be a huge investment of her time. But the fascinating and revealing thing about her explanation was that she said it would be an investment of time in a movie that wasn't truly hers.
"It's important to me that that be true to who I was in this moment. And if there’s too much compromise, it really wasn’t going to be an Ava DuVernay film," the director said.
What Wright, DuVernay, Whedon, and Trank have in common is that they were chosen for their specific vision, but the studios weren't fully comfortable with letting them do what they do so well. There's an underlying sense of compromise each director had to face, and some weren't willing to work under the aegis of someone else's vision.
From a studio perspective, this compromise is needed not only because there's just so much money riding on these films, but also because so much money has been made delivering the same kind of story. Guardians of the Galaxy, The Avengers, and Thor: The Dark World all have the same basic structure — good guys have a weapon but don't know it; a bad guy obtains it and goes on a mini-rampage; good guys are part of a dysfunctional team that has to work out its issues; aliens invade; bad guy loses the destructive weapon; and the good guys almost die defeating said bad guy.
If you're a studio head, you don't want to stray too far away from this formula because there's just too much risk in something edgier. That's understandable. But it also compromises directors' creativity — this is why Captain America: Winter Soldier, a political thriller disguised as a superhero flick, and Avengers: Age of Ultron's sad moments were so refreshing to see.
The more disheartening side to this equation is that any director who chooses to work on a superhero movie will continue to have his or her art flattened, maybe beyond recognition. The more successful superhero films become, the less reason there is to stray from the formula and the more likely we are to be fed stories from corporations instead of actual humans. And maybe the one good thing Fantastic Four can bring is a realization that isn't the path we want to be on.
Originally published on Grist.
Where are the philosophers arguing that eating meat is moral?
When I started researching this piece, I’d already read a lot of arguments against meat, but I hadn’t seen a serious philosophical defense of carnivores. So I started asking around. I asked academics, meat industry representatives, and farmers: Who was the philosophical counterweight to Peter Singer?
In 1975, Singer wrote Animal Liberation, which launched the modern animal rights movement with its argument that causing animal suffering is immoral. There are plenty of other arguments against eating animals besides Singer’s, going back to the ancient Greeks and Hindus. There are even arguments that Christianity contains a mandate for vegetarianism. Matthew Scully’s Dominion argues against animal suffering; Scully rejects Singer’s utilitarian assertion that humans and animals are equal but says that, since God gave people "dominion over the fish of the sea and the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth," so we have a responsibility to care for them and show them mercy.
The arguments against eating animals are pretty convincing. But surely, I thought, there were also intellectuals making convincing counterarguments. Right? Nope. Not really.
(Shutterstock)
There is the Cartesian idea that animals are unfeeling machines, incapable of suffering — but I just wasn’t buying that. It’s clear that animals have an aversive response to pain, and careful, well-respected scientists are saying that animals are probably capable of feeling and consciousness. Once we admit even the possibility that animals are sentient, the ethical game is on: It doesn’t matter that an animal is just an animal; if you’re against suffering and you agree animals can feel pain, it’s pretty hard to justify eating them. (Of course, the further you get from humans the harder it is to judge — plants may be sentient in a totally alien way! Singer says we can stop caring somewhere between a shrimp and oyster.)
My enquiries didn’t turn up any sophisticated defense of meat. Certainly there are a few people here and there making arguments around the edges, but nothing that looked to me like a serious challenge to Singer. In fact, the lack of philosophical work to justify meat eating is so extreme that people kept referring me not to scholarly publications, but to an essay contest that the New York Times held back in 2012. Ariel Kaminer organized that contest after noticing the same gaping hole in the philosophical literature that I’d stumbled upon. Vegetarians have claimed the ethical high ground with book after book and, Kaminer wrote:
In response, those who love meat have had surprisingly little to say. They say, of course, that, well, they love meat or that meat is deeply ingrained in our habit or culture or cuisine or that it’s nutritious or that it’s just part of the natural order … But few have tried to answer the fundamental ethical issue: Whether it is right to eat animals in the first place, at least when human survival is not at stake.
The winner of that contest, Jay Bost, didn’t take it much farther than that, basically arguing that "meat is just part of the natural order" because animals are an integral part of the food web. That’s a start, but I’d want a lot more than a 600-word essay to flesh out the idea and respond to the obvious criticisms — since almost all the animals we eat are far removed from natural food webs, it’s still basically a prescription for veganism. Plus, where do you draw the line on what’s natural?
I found several beginnings of arguments like this — no real philosophical shelter for a meat eater, but a few foundational observations that you might build something upon if you carefully thought through all the implications.
(Bob Chamberlin/Los Angeles Times via Getty Images)
Animal welfare expert Temple Grandin offered one potential plank for building a defense of meat eating. "We’ve gotta give animals a life worth living," she told me. Later in the interview, she reminded me that most farm animals wouldn’t have a life at all if no one ate meat. Combine these points and you could argue that it’s better to have a life worth living than no life at all — even if it ends with slaughter and consumption.
Using the same argument, we might raise children for the purpose of producing organs
When I bounced this argument off the ethicist Paul Thompson, he said, "That may be a defensible position, but a philosopher should also be prepared to apply it to humans."
Right. It’s hard to limit the "a life worth living is better than no life at all" argument to farm animals. Using the same argument, we might raise children for the purpose of producing organs: As long as they were well cared for, ignorant of their fate, and painlessly slaughtered, you could say they had a life worth living. The clone gets a (short) life, a dying girl get a new heart, everyone wins! It’s rationally consistent, but certainly doesn’t feel right to me.
Perhaps some brilliant philosopher will develop these points, but, since I am not one of those, I was left with the conclusion that the vegans were right. Oddly, however, that didn’t make me think twice about laying sliced turkey on my sandwich the next day. I was convinced on a rational level, but not in an embodied, visceral way.
(Shutterstock)
"Animal Liberation is one of those rare books that demand that you either defend the way you live or change it," Michael Pollan once wrote. I know what he means — when I first read it, I felt battered and stupefied by the horrors of animal suffering that Singer paraded before me. Nevertheless, despite my inability to muster a defense for my meat eating, I didn’t change my way of life. Pollan didn’t, either: His piece is set up as a stunt — he’s reading Animal Liberation while eating rib eye in a steakhouse. And, though Pollan finds himself agreeing with Singer, he has no problem finishing his steak.
"[L]ife-long adherence to solely plant-based diets is less than 1 percent"
I tend to think of rational argument as a powerful force, certainly more powerful than the trivial pleasure of eating meat. But it turns out that’s backwards: Rational morality tugs at us with the slenderest of threads, while meat pulls with the thick-twined chords of culture, tradition, pleasure, the flow of the crowd, and physical yearning — and it pulls at us three times a day. Thousands, convinced by Singer and the like, become vegetarians for moral reasons. And then most of those thousands start eating meat again. Vaclav Smil notes: "Prevalence of all forms of ‘vegetarianism’ is no higher than 2–4 percent in any Western society and that long-term (at least a decade) or life-long adherence to solely plant-based diets is less than 1 percent." As the psychologist Hal Herzog told Grist’s Katie Herzog in this podcast, "It’s the single biggest failure of the animal rights movement."
How do we deal with this? Some people just shrug and say, "Whatever, animals are different, it’s okay to kill them." I can’t quite bring myself to do that, because I value rational consistency. And yet, I don’t feel immoral when I eat meat — I actually feel pretty good.
The virtuous vegetarian. (Shutterstock)
Whenever you have lots of people agreeing in principle to a goal that is impossible for most to achieve in practice, you have something resembling religion. Religions are all about setting standards that most people will never live up to. And Thompson thinks they have something to teach us on this issue.
Thompson’s solution is to treat vegetarianism the way religious traditions treat virtues. Christians strive to love their neighbors, but they don’t say that people who fail to reach Jesus-level self-sacrifice are immoral. Buddhists strive for detachment, but they don’t flagellate themselves when they fail to achieve it.
Allowing people to access that protein should be moral, not just an excusable lapse
Thompson suggests that we should strive to do better by animals, but that doesn’t mean we should condemn ourselves for eating meat. There are lots of cases like this, he told me. "Some people are going to take these issues up in a way that other people would find really difficult," Thompson said. "For instance, we all respect Mother Theresa for taking on amazing burdens, but we don’t say that you are evil for not doing it."
This makes sense to me. Louis CK can make a pretty solid argument that people who have enough money to buy a nice car (or to spend time reading long essays about meat philosophy) should be donating 90 percent of their income to the poor.

And yet most of us don’t give up our luxuries. By Thompson’s reasoning, that doesn’t make us immoral. In fact, he says, it’s just wrong to condemn people who eat meat. When people rise out of extreme poverty, that is, when they start earning $2.60 a day, they almost invariably spend that newfound money on animal protein: milk, meat, or eggs. Now, you might roll your eyes and say that of course the desperate should be excused from the moral obligation — but wait. As Thompson writes in his book, From Field to Fork: Food Ethics for Everyone:
[T]his response misses my point. Excuses apply in extenuating circumstances, but the logic of excuses implies that the action itself is still morally wrong. A poor person might be excused for stealing a loaf of bread. Theft might be excused when a poor person’s situation takes a turn for the worse, but in the case at hand, their situation has taken a turn toward the better. Under modestly improved circumstances, the extremely poor add a little meat, milk, or eggs into their diet. My claim is that there is something curious with a moral system that reclassifies legally and traditionally sanctioned conduct of people at the utter margins of society as something that needs to be excused.
Is it morally wrong for a hungry child in India to eat an egg? This isn’t just a thought experiment — it’s a real controversy. It’s not enough to wave it off by saying it’s easy to provide vegan alternatives, because those alternative just don’t exist for many people. Often, the cheapest high-quality protein available to the poor comes from animals. Thompson’s point is that allowing people to access that protein should be moral, not just an excusable lapse.
Could keeping egg-laying chickens in cages actually be better for them? (David Silverman/Getty Images)
If we accept Thompson’s formulation (and I’m inclined to), it lets us stop wringing our hands over our hypocrisy and strive to improve conditions for animals. That’s what Temple Grandin does. She didn’t have much patience for my philosophical questions. Instead, she is focused on the realistic changes that will give animals better lives. And as I talked to her, she served up surprise after surprise. Many of the elements in confined animal feeding operations (CAFOs) that people find most abhorrent, she said, may be fine from the animal’s perspective. For instance, consider egg-laying hens: What’s better for them — an open barn or stacked cages? Small battery cages, with several hens packed inside each, are bad news, according to Grandin, but enriched cages are a really good alternative.
"There are objective ways to measure a hen’s motivation to get something she wants — like a private nest box," Grandin told me. "How long is she willing to not eat to get it, or how heavy a door will she push to get it? How many times will she push a switch to get it? A private nest box is something she wants, because in the wild she has an instinct to hide in the bushes so that a fox doesn’t get [her eggs]. Give her some pieces of plastic to hang down that she can hide behind. Give her a little piece of astroturf to lay [her eggs] on. Give her a perch, and a piece of plastic to scratch on, and at least enough cage height so she can walk normally. I’m gonna call that apartment living for chickens. Do they need natural elements? Being outside? Science can’t answer that. I mean, there are people in New York that hardly go outside."
"A private nest box is something [an egg-laying hen] wants"
I pressed her: Can’t you use those same objective measurement techniques to see how badly the hens want to go outside and scratch for bugs?
"Well you can," Grandin said, "and the motivation is pretty weak compared to something like the nest box, which is hardwired. Take dust bathing. For a hen dust bathing is nice to do, but it’s kind of like, yes, it’s nice to have a fancy hotel room, but the EconoLodge will do too."
And in fact, the free-range system that I would instinctively choose for chickens may be worse than an enriched cage — because the birds get sick and injured a lot more. And laying hens, unlike meat chickens, are pretty nasty about setting up pecking orders. As Thompson observes in his book, "This is well and good in the flocks of 10 to 20 birds, as might be observed among wild jungle fowl, and it is probably tolerable in a flock of 40 to 60 birds that might have been seen on a typical farmstead in 1900 … But a cage-free/ free-range commercial egg barn will have between 150,000 to 500,000 hens occupying the same space. If you are a hen at the bottom end of the pecking order in an environment like that, you are going to get pecked. A lot."
Even small farms with pastured hens that produce $9-a-dozen eggs often have hundreds of birds, which means the most submissive hens are going to get beat up. I certainly prefer Joel Salatin’s 400-bird Eggmobile on lush grass, because to my human eyes it’s beautiful — and chicken cages look horrible. But I have real doubt as to what’s better from the chicken’s perspective.
There are a lot of counterintuitive things like this when it comes to animal farming (here’s our Q&A in full). So I asked Grandin how we should feel about animal agriculture in the United States as it’s currently practiced: Do these animals really have a life worth living?
It varies greatly, she said, but some CAFOs really are good. "I think cattle done right have a decent life," she said. I couldn’t get her to give a simple thumbs up or down to chicken or pork CAFOs.
The Dalai Lama. (Keith Tsuji/Getty Images)
Talking to Grandin didn’t make me want to go stock up on corn-fed beef, but it did significantly soften my (negative) feelings about industrial animal production. And talking to Thompson made me realize that I was willing to compromise the needs of animals for the needs of humans if they come into direct conflict. In that way I’m a speciesist — I have an unshakable favoritism for humans. Perhaps it’s irrational, but I really want that little girl in India to get her egg, even if it means hens suffer, even if there’s a good vegan alternative for a slightly higher cost.
I have an unshakable favoritism for humans
Perhaps there’s a philosophical argument to be made in defense of killing animals, but no one has spelled that out in a way that I found convincing. Does this mean that we should join the vegans?
I think the answer is yes, but in a very limited way — in the same way that we all should take vows of poverty and stop thinking impure thoughts. Ending deaths and suffering is a worthy moral goal for those of us who have the wealth to make choices. But saying that it’s wrong and immoral to eat meat is just too absolutist. I mean, even the Dalai Lama, who says vegetarianism is preferable, eats meat twice a week.
The binary, good-or-evil view of meat is pragmatically counterproductive — the black and white strategy hasn’t gotten many people to become vegan. Instead, let’s focus on giving farm animals a life worth living.
Grist is a nonprofit news site that uses humor to shine a light on big green issues. Get their email newsletter here, and follow them on Facebook and Twitter.
Well. That's over.
After seeing all eight and a half hours of True Detective season two, I think it's fair to peg the entirety of the story somewhere between "massively disappointing" and "unmitigated disaster." After the season's sixth and seventh episodes made tentative, hesitant steps toward bringing things to a vaguely satisfying conclusion, the actual finale, "Omega Station," falls back on giant gobs of exposition, characters doing things that make no sense because the story requires them to, and shootout after shootout. It wants to be the gigantic Greek tragedy ending, with Ray and Frank crushed by the institutions they dared defy but their lovers living on. It mostly ends up a weak shrug.

In thinking about why season two hasn't worked, however, it's impossible to escape one central notion — creator Nic Pizzolatto didn't have the faintest clue how to tell this story. Somewhere in the middle of this thicket, there was a compelling noir about a bunch of people caught up in a conspiracy almost too big to comprehend, but it kept getting lost behind frankly baffling storytelling decisions.
I try not to jump on the "Pizzolatto is the worst!" bandwagon that often, because he's not. The stories he tells can be ungainly, and he sometimes bites off more than he can chew. But when he's firing on all cylinders, it's easy to see why he's been so hyped. The problem is that his particular alchemy really requires absolutely everything going right, and when they don't, well, you get True Detective, season two.
Here are seven stupid storytelling decisions that kept this season from working.
Ray's shooting ended up not having much of anything to do with anything.
HBO
Essentially every flaw of the season stems from this one point. The central story of three very different police officers investigating the death of a corrupt city manager turned out to have enough story in it to fill maybe two or three hours. To compensate for this, Pizzolatto kept tossing more and more things into the season's story.
The main added complication was Frank, the crime boss whose story never went beyond a tangential connection to everybody else. But then you had things like Panticapaeum, and the drug cartel shootout, and the gigantic sex parties, all of which ended up being weird digressions and distractions. Heck, the season used that shootout to reboot its story midway through, in a way that completely negated most of the first four episodes, outside of very shaky character development.
Plotting is not Pizzolatto's strong suit. It never has been, and it probably never will be. But when he doesn't have interesting characters to fall back on, that becomes even more apparent. Think about it this way: The importance of those blue diamonds that ended up being key to unraveling the mystery didn't become apparent until midway through the season. They felt, almost, like a desperate, last-second pass, tossed over the end zone in hopes of a touchdown. And we all know how those sorts of plays usually turn out.
Ani and Ray had very little connection to what was happening in the main mystery.
HBO
The primary movers and shakers in this story turned out to be a couple of orphans who were wronged by the cops during the 1992 Los Angeles riots, deprived of parentage and maybe even an inheritance. If you look at the story from their point of view, it's a lot more inherently interesting — it's a story of two completely powerless kids who, through a thirst for revenge, end up almost taking down a gigantic criminal conspiracy that runs the state of California. There's something there!
But our main characters were Ray, Frank, Ani, and Paul. Ray's connection to the central crime was minimal, even though he worked with many of the people who perpetrated it. Frank was getting stiffed out of a land deal that never became worth paying attention to. Ani's dad was connected to the extreme fringes of the conspiracy, but not in any real way. And Paul had nothing to do with anything.
By and large, the characters were driving the story forward not because they had a personal stake in it but because the show needed somebody to keep pushing the story forward. In season one, Rust Cohle kept investigating the case because he needed to prove something fundamental about the philosophy he organized his life around. It wasn't a great motivation, but it was there. In season two, nobody has any reason to keep investigating the case except they're getting paid to do so. They all have something to prove — but only in the extreme abstract.
Did we really need anything that Frank brought to the story this season?
HBO
Of all of True Detective season two's storytelling sins, this is the one that has been most thoroughly adjudicated, even by fans of the season. The story's twists and turns eventually left behind any sense of internal logic and simply started jetting all over the place in the hopes of making us think we were watching a more sophisticated story than "cops solve a crime."
Last week, Slate's Willa Paskin attempted to explain the show's story so far, and ended up with an article over 4,000 words that does a much better job of laying out what, exactly, happened this season than the show ever did and still leaves out a couple of things that seemed important at one time or another. The only other show with a backstory so needlessly convoluted is Game of Thrones, and that's had five seasons to lay its cards on the table, not eight episodes.
Because of the way serialized television works, it's often tempting to confuse world-building (laying in the background and history of the setting) for storytelling. A good rule of thumb is that if it seems like every other line of dialogue is exposition, you've gone too far. At times, this second season reminded me of some of those Lost clones that popped up in the wake of the desert island drama's success, where the characters spent less time establishing themselves and far more time explaining conspiracy theories to each other.
Even Paul's "big secret" ended up being really easy to guess.
HBO
Okay, I'll admit that I got the identity of Bird Head very, very wrong last week. (Instead of Lieutenant Burris, Bird Head turned out to be the orphaned brother.) And the momentary jolt of realizing I'd missed that made me realize just how easy it's been to figure out roughly what's coming all season long — to the degree that I predicted Ray and Ani would have a baby together after the second episode.
There's nothing wrong with a little predictability, even in a mystery. We always need safe and steady ground to return to, so we don't feel lost. But when almost every story turn can be telegraphed episodes in advance, maybe it's time to try something new. (This is where Pizzolatto likely would have benefited the most from a writers' room.)
And the few times the season wasn't predictable were mostly thanks to Pizzolatto not playing fair with the audience. The killer was a guy the characters talked to on a movie set in one scene? Sure. Why not. But who's going to remember that character, much less have any sort of connection to him?
Rust and Marty added so much to season one. Season two lacked anything like that.
HBO
This has also been thoroughly dissected by other writers, so I won't belabor the point. But whatever rift opened up between Pizzolatto and season one director Cary Fukunaga resulted in a season that lacked the coherent directorial vision Fukunaga brought to season one, which only helped underline the weaknesses in the scripts. Add in four actors who weren't bringing anything nearly as mesmerizing as Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson's work, and you had a recipe for something that was bound to disappoint.
If True Detective is going to be a series of crime novels told in eight installments, then it would behoove the show to at least find one director to helm all eight episodes. That will allow for the sort of coherency of vision season two lacked.
Whatever was up with Ani, the season treated it far too lasciviously.
HBO
I accept that part of the crime thriller genre will involve delving into the criminal underworld, into the darkest heart of what humans are capable of. It goes with the territory, and this kind of storytelling can be a safe way to exorcise those demons.
But season two of True Detective was often oddly hilarious in what it considered transgressive. Everything from women performing oral sex on men to the drug Molly to Ani's love of seemingly rough sex was considered, at one point or another, super "edgy," even though all of these elements have ceased to carry much ability to shock in decades.
Because of that marvelous orgy sequence and Ani's backstory, it's clear Pizzolatto gets the moral stakes of this story. So why does it have such a prurient interest in forcing all of the characters into softly lit, gently moody variations on normal, old-fashioned, vanilla sex? It was bizarre.
Keep the weird dream sequence, though.
HBO
Look. I am not the person telling this story. Pizzolatto likely has good reasons to tell this story in the way he did, ones that simply haven't occurred to me. But by structuring season two as he did, the writer only managed to underline and highlight all of the above.
In particular, turning the season premiere into an hour-long slog through the four main characters' backstories instantly created distance between viewers and the people who were ostensibly going to guide us through this story. And though there were some good moments scattered throughout the first half of the season, the story didn't really begin in earnest until episode five, long after many people had stopped really caring about what was happening. (Remember that weird distraction with Ray getting shot in the gut — then living to fight another day? Solely there to extend the story, it would seem.)
Now imagine a story where the crime is the first thing we see, and the characters slowly untangle its many threads over a few episodes, before getting something disastrously wrong and dropping into the middle of a shootout that kills one of their own and leaves them reeling. Over a gap of a couple of months, we watch as their backstories unfold, then are relieved to see them join forces again. Imagine those blue diamonds turning up as a major plot point in episode one. Imagine the conspiracy being anything other than a distraction from the main story.
Obviously, this could be just as terrible as True Detective season two. But the difference is that at least with a conventional story structure, we'd have something to cling to. I'm all for breaking the rules, because stories that break the rules are the most thrilling of all. But you have to be really good to get away with all that rule-breaking. When you're not, things tend to fall apart in your hands.
That's exactly what happened to True Detective season two, and when the people behind the show realized it, they bet heavily on smoke and mirrors. But at the end of the day, those smoke and mirrors were hiding exactly what they're always hiding — a distracting trick with nothing at its core.
I'll stop in for two full hours to talk about this season and anything else you're interested in. Start leaving your questions now!
Previous episode

To a lot of people, opera is about women wearing horns, Elmer Fudd singing "Kill the Wabbit," and maybe Russell Crowe groaning in Les Miserables. It seems daunting. Even worse, you might think opera's not bad, but really dull: It seems dingy, obscure, and pretentious.
But it doesn't have to be that way. Opera can be fun, audacious, and actually gloriously stupid if you read any of the plots.  So what do you do if you don't want to learn deeply about opera, but just want to take the plunge?
To find the answer, I talked to Fred Plotkin. He's the author of Opera 101: A Complete Guide to Learning and Loving Opera and writes extensively about the subject.
He generously shared tips that a total opera neophyte can follow. This guide isn't about name-dropping composers or trying to look smart, and it's not even about appreciating opera's artistic value — it's about helping you just try one out.
This should be your thought process: "Wow, that looks weird. Let's go." This is from a recent production of A Midsummer Night's Dream.
Boris Horvat/Getty Images
Picking your first opera can be paralyzing, but don't just choose one from the canon. When you take a kid to her first movie, you'd opt for a kids' movie rather than jumping into Citizen Kane. Same here. You don't need to earn a PhD, you need to get your money's worth — and that means picking a show you might like.
Since your opera options depend on where you live, look at what's offered and get some advice. "Call the company," Plotkin suggests. He says the box office will be happy to simply tell you which opera in a season is best for a neophyte. And his book also features 11 operas to start off with, including Verdi's popular opera Rigoletto. A good starter opera will be relatively short, with catchy music and maybe a story you're familiar with.
Also, see if there's something you have a natural affinity for. To take one example, this season the Washington Opera is premiering a revised version of Philip Glass's Appomattox. You won't find that on any Wikipedia lists of classic operas — but if you're obsessed with the progression of civil rights or the sound of Philip Glass, it's probably a better first opera than a classic like Carmen.
Are you into comedies or heartbreaking tragedies? Something completely intelligible or something super weird? Operas come in all kinds of flavors. Between the human you've called and Wikipedia, you should be able to find something to try.
These people are actually in the Vienna Opera House for a Mission: Impossible world premiere. But that's fitting — this is supposed to be fun!
Gisela Schober/Getty Images
There's something particularly daunting about an opera seating chart. All those levels! Plotkin's advice? "Get a really good pair of binoculars," he says. "That means I don't have to sit in $150 to $200 seats that I can't afford anyway." Sitting upstairs is less expensive and has great sound because an opera performance — and the opera house itself — is designed with a big audience in mind.
If you do have the cash for better seats, avoid side boxes and sit in the center on the first level (a.k.a. the orchestra level) to get the best view and sound.
Yes, opera can be expensive. Even with a discount, you're going to pay more than you would for a movie (especially in the United States, which doesn't subsidize arts as some countries do). Depending on where you live, there is hope — the Metropolitan Opera in New York, for example, has $25 rush tickets as well as standing-room tickets.
Still, there are some workarounds on price. There are plenty — operas want to reach young people, and when it comes to operas, "young people" can be pretty old. The Washington Opera, for example, lets people up to 35 join its youth outreach program, which offers special discounts.
This is a scene from Die Meistersinger. It's about a singing competition, so it's actually easier to understand than whatever Real Housewives you watch.
Jack Vartoogian/Getty Images
Avoiding spoilers is the wrong approach for opera. Often, operas are in another language, so you want the plot in your mind already. That will help you appreciate the performances, setting, and spectacle instead of trying to parse who's actually talking. Your program book will have a summary, too, but it's best to just glance online the night before you go.
It's like the best episode of Scandal you've ever seen
We're trained to expect prestige entertainment to have emotional nuance, challenging intellectual themes, and difficult narratives. Opera doesn't have that. It's like the best episode of Scandal you've ever seen, so just don't sweat the plot and enjoy everything else. People who like opera can make their enthusiasm seem pretentious, but opera isn't pretentious at all. It's literally screaming for you to love it.
For the music, listen to it in the background a bit in order for "earworms" to flourish. "Find it on YouTube, do whatever you're doing, and hear the music," Plotkin says. It will prepare you for greater enjoyment, the same way listening to music before a pop concert does.
This is the opera bathroom at the English National Opera. Looks nice enough!
Getty Images
"Get there a half hour before," Plotkin advises. "You can take in the environment of the theater and go to the bathroom ... my desire is to rule out anything that may distract you from the opera."
Booze is in the personal preference department. You can buy it there, or you can get an espresso — just make sure you leave enough time to drink it, since as with most live theater you probably won't be allowed to bring it into the theater. Plotkin's on the conservative side because he likes to stay alert: "You don't want to doze off. I'll have a sandwich or yogurt and a cup of coffee."
Ignore the words. There's a ton of insane images right on stage, like in this production of The Magic Flute.
Boris Horvat/Magic Flute
Operas are going to tell you what the people are singing, whether it's in another language or not. Usually they do this with supertitles — words projected above the stage — but sometimes there are even fancy seat-back screens, like on an airplane.
"The chief emphasis is on the music"
That said, don't worry about the dialogue. Opera's not rocket science. "We're a very literal society," Plotkin says. "The chief emphasis is on the music, not the words."
This is one major way in which an opera and a foreign film differ. "It's not like going to a film with subtitles," Plotkin advises. "Listen, listen, listen. All the emotional messages come in the music."
To keep up with the plot, you can read summaries in your program book before the opera starts and during intermissions (there's often more than one).
Look at how many people are in this one picture of a production of Don Giovanni. This is epic.
Quim Llenas/Getty Images
This is a spectacle that bests every show you've ever seen. Most of us have a big musical as a reference point, and operas blow them out of the water. That includes:
Two young women chatting about opera.
Shutterstock
Plotkin resists the notion that it's an art form only for rich white people. Historically, opera was a popular art form, and it should have the chance to be that way today. We used to realize that: Soap operas have that name for a reason. They were sponsored by soap advertisers, but the content was intended to evoke the extreme, salacious, and overdramatic camp of an opera.  "We have to think of opera as being by the people, of the people, and for the people," he says.
Opera actually isn't inaccessible or obscure, even though it has that reputation. Most operas are about well-dressed train wrecks, waiting for somebody to ogle them. And that's why Plotkin wants everyone to be a fan and, eventually, an opera buff — including you.
Everyone on Hannibal longs for one of two things — connection or control.
They want the former, because they're always looking for some perfect opposite who will make sense of their own disjointed lives. But they want the latter, because they fear (or desire) that without it, they will give in to their own worst impulses or crumble to their basest desires.

Hannibal Lecter, of course, wields the promise of connection to weave a spell of control over his friends and patients. Even though the time when Hannibal held him in his thrall is long past, Will Graham continues to feel the after-effects of it, to see images of his own personal devil when he closes his eyes, the brightness of a lightbulb still burned upon the retina. He's moved on, but some part of him hasn't. And until he finds his way past that part, he'll never have complete control.
And that scares him.
This latest episode, "... And the Woman Clothed in Sun," finds a nifty way to depict this battle between connection and control, and it's a scene that has bearings for the rest of the episode and, indeed, the rest of the show. And all it took was one anesthetized tiger.
Notice how the tiger looks almost normal here. This will become important.
NBC
The impetus for this scene is that Francis has taken Reba to the zoo, where one of the tigers is resting before a medical procedure. Reba runs her hands over the tiger. Later, back home, their relationship turns sexual. That's about it, but it seems to exemplify so much of what the show is about.
As I mentioned last week, Red Dragon is so impressive because it has ticking clocks buried inside of its ticking clocks. One of these is the very genuine romance between Francis and Reba, which we want to see go well, even though we know the former is a horrible murderer. When they have these tiny moments when they grow ever closer to each other, we thrill, just a little bit, at the thought of them falling in love.
Of course, the homicidal Red Dragon growing within Francis (personified in this episode by him literally devouring the William Blake painting that gives the dragon its name) will eventually ruin this coupling. We know it has to happen, and all we can really hope for is that Reba escapes with her life. It's the central tension of the whole story, and it's part of why Francis is such a memorable villain.
But let's return to that tiger. As director Guillermo Navarro lights the beast, it seems almost as if it glows from within, lighting up the room around him like a softly glowing paper lantern. The connection between fire and a tiger and William Blake — the man who wrote "Tyger, tyger, burning bright" — should, hopefully, occur to the audience.
As Reba's hand touches the tiger, the colors heighten, as if the tiger were made of flame.
NBC
But that sleeping tiger is symbolic of more than just a ferocious beast laid low for a little while. In almost every way, Francis seems to accept the tiger as a kind of symbol of himself. Reba is allowed to touch it where most others would not be, and she's even allowed to run a few fingers over its lips (something Francis does with her hand to his own lip while she sleeps later in the episode). Her connection with the big cat grows more and more intense, more and more intimate, until it finally explodes in a burst of sensation.
Notice how the tiger seems, now, to glow, almost like a fireplace ember.
NBC
Navarro portrays this with the colors and lights heightening, to play up the intoxication of Reba feeling the tiger beneath her touch. She cannot see it, but in some ways that makes her better able to appreciate its raw size and strength — and appreciate how rare it is that she would be able to approach it.
Francis eats a painting. Like you do.
NBC
It's appropriate that the visit to the tiger is followed up by Reba and Francis's first time in bed. So much of what's wonderful about sex is the feeling that you're losing just a little bit of yourself in the process, and it's easy to imagine this is the first time Francis has lost control in a way that hasn't ultimately proved destructive. (Also, like everything else in the episode, Navarro shoots the hell out of it.)
The question, of course, is to what degree Francis is aware of his inner demons and to what degree he's encouraging them. There's the very real suggestion that Reba is the first thing he's ever had that makes him think his constant string of murders isn't the path of his life. But he's also someone who seems to be trying to control those demons — and the loss of control that occurs during sex might scare him, just a bit.
That, of course, resonates with Will and Bedelia, two of the characters most caught in Hannibal's web.
Will and Bedelia sit down for a little chat about all the ways Hannibal is the worst.
NBC
Bedelia suggests to Will that he's not a killer, that Hannibal simply twisted the profiler to his own diabolical ends. Will, she insists, is deeply compassionate. And that fits with what we know of the character, and what he knows of himself. But in the very same scene, she suggests that great cruelty requires great empathy — that there's only one step between seeing a wounded bird lying on the sidewalk and wanting to help it and seeing that same bird and wanting to crush it.
Indeed, there's the suggestion (and has been throughout the season) that Bedelia is fascinated by Hannibal more than she is repulsed by him — and that fascination repulses her more than his actions.
One of the great things about this Red Dragon arc is that showrunner Bryan Fuller and company are playing up more and more resonances within the text of the book that were always there but were easy to miss in prior adaptations. In particular, the line between Will and Francis seems blurrier than ever before. Both consult with Hannibal. Both are incorporating women they've recently met into their previously quiet, hermetic lives. And both are struggling to suppress certain things. But one is succeeding and one is failing.
Perhaps Will succeeds where Francis fails (for now, at least), because he knows the tiger won't be asleep forever. Eventually, the medication wears off, and the beast must be fed. Francis has turned that feeding into a ritualistic murder, but Will has turned it into an existential game of chicken with his own darkest self. And by engaging with Hannibal and Francis, he's spiraling ever closer to the abyss.
Previous episode
A little over an hour into Ricki and the Flash, the new Meryl Streep star vehicle now playing in theaters, there's a terrific shot that captures just why Ricki, the aging wannabe rocker played by Streep, does what she does.

Rating
The camera begins by holding on a dingy little barroom stage, where Ricki and her band rip into U2's "I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking for." Just off-center in the foreground, a woman's head bops back and forth, lost in her own private dance. Then the camera begins to pull back from the stage, revealing the dancing woman in full, before it pulls past a quartet of people dancing, a little farther out from the stage. The bar is quiet. It's only a half-full night. But for these five people and the band, it's perfection. Sometimes this is all you need — a band to play the hits and an open floor to dance on.

Ricki and the Flash is far from perfect. It meanders, and screenwriter Diablo Cody's script introduces a handful of plot points that many will complain never go anywhere — in particular a storyline involving Audra McDonald as the second wife of Ricki's ex-husband. But it's also one of the best movies of the year, a tribute to the idea that anger and forgiveness aren't mutually exclusive. Indeed, they sometimes go hand in hand.

Ricki (Meryl Streep) is reunited with her daughter, Julie (Mamie Gummer), and ex-husband, Pete (Kevin Kline). (Sony Pictures)
Cody — who also wrote Juno and the terrific Young Adult — often writes about characters who are stuck between what they desperately want and the comfortable life they already have. There's something deeply Midwestern about her sensibility, vaguely similar to the works of F. Scott Fitzgerald, as characters confront the weird longing at their centers that they lack the vocabulary to put into words. (Indeed, Cody, like Fitzgerald, is from Minnesota.)
That idea finds its fruition in Ricki, a married mother of three who simply up and left when she decided it was time to pursue a rock 'n' roll career before it was too late. Both she and the people she left behind have deep scars from her decision, and Ricki has yet to make anything of her dreams (as the fact that she's still playing in a bar band would suggest). But what's remarkable about the film is its refusal to condemn her for her actions — as well as its refusal to condemn her family for their anger at her when she reenters their lives.
Ricki heads back to her former Indianapolis home after her ex-husband, Pete (Kevin Kline), asks her to come back and help the pair's daughter, Julie (Mamie Gummer, Streep's real-life child), whose husband recently left her, sending Julie into a deep depressive state. When Ricki steps back into that life — where everybody calls her by the name "Linda," which she left behind as surely as her old life — she's confronted by just how much she hurt these people and just how short she's fallen of her dreams.
In many movies, this would be the start of an unlikely redemptive arc, as the character realized just how awful she was and recommitted herself, late in life, to the role of doting mother. Or it would be about her family finding its way to a kind of forgiveness, as it realizes how important it is to chase your dreams. Ricki and the Flash does neither. Instead, it charts a middle course that rings true.
People need a home where they can feel unconditionally loved. But they also need great bar bands to dance to. The choice is not either-or. Everybody can be more than one thing, and a mother can love her children deeply and still have to leave them.

Director Jonathan Demme is great at capturing smaller moments, like how Ricki and her daughter stand in the same way. (Sony Pictures)
This tale is in keeping with the previous work of Cody, who's interested in presenting onscreen women who make the kinds of choices onscreen men make all the time without suffering repercussions. Cody's also good at flip-flopping the expected — the crunchy granola hippies of the film all live in Indiana, for instance, while Ricki is a dyed-in-the-wool Republican who lives in a scuzzy apartment in the San Fernando Valley.
But the story is also in keeping with the works of the film's director, Jonathan Demme, one of the most humane comedy directors working. Most film fans will best known Demme for the film that won him an Oscar, The Silence of the Lambs. But before that film, the director reeled off a string of fantastic smaller films in the 1980s, mostly rambling comedies like Something Wild and Married to the Mob, which took their time to set up their casts and tell complex, human stories.
Demme also directed 2008's fantastic Rachel Getting Married, which shares certain structural similarities with Ricki. Both feature climactic weddings, for instance, and both are about women who keep disappointing their families, no matter what they do. But both films also largely hint at their backstory, rather than reveal it outright. And once they've laid out just what makes the characters tick, they spend time with the characters in all their flaws and pain, watching to see if they unravel.
But where Kim, the protagonist of Rachel, was young enough to still have a shot at changing her life, Ricki is largely left with the decisions she made so long ago. This means the central section where she looks around at what her life has become could feel directionless and without purpose. But this is precisely where Demme puts that shot of the dancers and the band, the reminder that sometimes life is made better by having some great music to accompany it.
The film's third act hits almost every beat you'd expect, but never quite in the way you'd think it would. The characters find their way to a kind of grace, but without wholly giving up on their justifiable hurt and pain. You can love someone and still hate what she's done to you, after all, and you can vacillate wildly between rage and deep empathy. Demme and Cody have deep feeling for these characters, but they also have very clear eyes about who these people are. That makes for a film that's warm and funny, yes, but also, above all else, wise.
Ricki and the Flash is playing in theaters throughout the country.
Every week, some prominent celebrity couple dares to go their separate ways, and Facebook and Twitter feeds proclaim that "LOVE IS DEAD" in the despondent tone one might use before swooning onto a fainting couch.
Recent weeks have seen particularly heavy casualties in the public relationship sphere. Ben Affleck and Jennifer Garner, usually seen surrounded by their passel of cherubic blond children, ended a long marriage. Then there were country music cool kids Blake Shelton and Miranda Lambert, who broke hearts when they announced that their totally chill relationship was not, in fact, all that chill.
Not every couple deserves to wield this kind of heartrending power.
So here are this week's celebrity breakups, ranked in order of how worthy they were of your despondence.
Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith, who are still married, thank you very much.
This breakup automatically ranks the lowest because it didn't actually happen.
Still, Will Smith himself had to come out against the rumors on Facebook because they were so persistent, so distraught, and so very concerned for the fates of the Smiths' otherworldly children, Jaden and Willow (who would likely find a way to deal through transformative performance art that would put everyone's handwringing to shame).
Will and Jada's relationship has always been under scrutiny, thanks to their famously laissez-faire approach to being a couple. Reports of their possible divorce were often weirdly enthusiastic, like we had finally gotten the pair to admit that the hands-off approach is less effective than traditional monogamy.
But Smith has no time for such "foolishness," and so he made a promise: "If I ever decide to divorce my Queen — I SWEAR I'll tell you myself!"
Donald Sterling, single-ish.
Brace yourselves: After years of estrangement, former Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling has filed for divorce from Shelly, his wife of 60 years.
Okay, so this particular divorce didn't make much of blip on the celebrity divorce radar at all, mostly because it was completely unsurprising, especially after Donald Sterling's very public controversies in 2014.
But the Sterlings are, technically, prominent public figures, and so they have a place on this list.
Technically.
Miss Piggy and Kermit the Frog bid adieu.
In a joint statement, hallowed Muppet couple Miss Piggy and Kermit the Frog have announced that their "personal lives are now distinct and separate, and [they] will be seeing other people, pigs, frogs, et al." While it would be usually a no-brainer to put Muppet hijinks at the top of this or any list, we have to deduct points for endangering one of the greatest romances of all time in the name of a shameless publicity attempt.
ABC's new puppet star vehicle The Muppets, set to premiere on September 22, is a mockumentary about the backstage drama at Miss Piggy's new late-night talk show (which really should exist in real life). We're prepared to eat our words if Miss Piggy and Kermit's split lasts through the first season, but if we know the Muppets, these two will inevitably work out their problems with some screwball comedy and a touching song about true love. (Coming to you this fall, on ABC!)
Note: We are not including the upcoming X-Files revival’s apparent Mulder/Scully breakup, because those fictional characters failed to capitalize on our nostalgia with a public statement.
Clockwise: Gwen Stefani, Gavin Rossdale, Kingston, and Zuma, tragically hip family.
This one hurts. Gwen Stefani built a career on her ability to be a relentless rock star and a hopeless romantic all at once. Her heartbreak over the end of a relationship with No Doubt bandmate Tony Kanal inspired one of the most satisfying breakup anthems of all time with 1996's "Don't Speak."
Stefani's snarl came with a flirty wink, an inspiration for a generation of would-be dirtbags who just wanted to rock against the system and look good doing it, man.
When Stefani married Bush frontman Gavin Rossdale in 2002, it made sense. They were a perfectly badass, unaffected couple who never seemed impressed by their own fame. No one was surprised by their first son Kingston's ability to wear punk plaids and free-falling locks in a way that let everyone know he was already far cooler as a toddler than you'd ever be as an adult. The pair went on to have two more children, whom they named Zuma and Apollo, for unapproachable cool rock star reasons.
The dissolution of their union is a devastating blow to the more glam things in life. Really, the only way this breakup is acceptable is if we get another "Don't Speak" out of it.

Narvel Blackstock and Reba McEntire, 2014.
Photo by Christopher Polk/Getty Images
Yes, it's true. Country music's fun aunt has called it quits with her husband slash manager, Narvel Blackstock. This begs a serious question about love, life, and our priorities: How could we, as a nation, have ignored a celebrity husband with a name so majestic as Narvel Blackstock?
Even aside from Narvel Blackstock's perfect name, however, this split would still win this week's top spot for its sheer variety of bizarre factors. For one, McEntire and Blackstock's relationship spanned 26 years, three made-for-television movies, one doomed sitcom (Malibu Country), and two hilariously hesitant Christmas specials (Blake Shelton's Not So Family Christmas and Kelly Clarkson's Cautionary Christmas Music Tale). Their son Shelby Blackstock is an Indy race car driver.
It also turns out that Narvel Blackstock is actually Kelly Clarkson's father-in-law. In fact, rumor has it that the split happened despite Clarkson's best efforts to stop it. And if Kelly Clarkson can't bring you back together, love truly might be dead.
In the midst of an elaborate goodbye from just about every correspondent in The Daily Show's history, a series of the show's political guests-slash-targets sent Jon Stewart one final kiss-off.

Some of it was fond, like Hillary Clinton lamenting that he was leaving right as she's running for president. Others were less enthusiastic, like Rahm Emanuel asking Stewart, "Who has nine and a half fingers and isn't going to miss you?" (Hint: that guy.)
Sen. Lindsey Graham took a break from debate prep to let Stewart know that he's going to be missed "... by somebody." (Graham has a surprisingly good deadpan.) Finally, Sen. John McCain dropped by to ... well, put on a one-man satirical puppet show, because hey, why not.
The name of the game was disdain, but as was clear by the time a US senator pulled out a puppet, no one in this montage was actually all that happy to see Jon Stewart leave.
A new Vine from Mariah Carey's Hollywood Walk of Fame star dedication ceremony on Wednesday, August 5, is sweeping the web as a supposed condemnation of her mothering skills.

The Vine, which you can watch on a never-ending loop above, shows Carey smiling with her star while one of her children desperately reaches for her. Carey continues to pose while an offscreen hand drags the child away. The contrast between the screaming kid and Carey's resolutely beaming face is hilarious, and as with any good Vine, the comic timing is impeccable.
Still, there's something unsettling about the way this clip is being passed around. Too much of the discussion around the moment implies that Carey's failure to jump off that star to calm her child at that moment is, indeed, a failure of mothering. Mothers in both the public and private spheres are scrutinized too often solely for how they engage with their kids and little else. The Vine's funny, sure, but the immediate instinct to call Carey out as a questionable mother on a day devoted to her professional accomplishments is alarming.
I don't know if Mariah Carey is a good or bad mother. A Vine that represents exactly six seconds of her life isn't enough evidence to sway me one way or another. But here's what I do know: Mariah Carey is the purest form of "diva" we have on this godforsaken planet.
Carey has sold more than 200 million albums worldwide. Her 2002 MTV Cribs episode is the stuff of legend, thanks to butterfly-themed rooms, boasts of owning Marilyn Monroe's piano, and a quick costume change that a harried assistant helps her with while she's walking.
Carey boasts a five-octave vocal range, and a recent ConcertHotels study even said she has hit the highest note of all time. Sure, her last album flopped, but even just its title — Me. I am Mariah ... The Elusive Chanteuse — proved no one does grandeur like Carey.
In other words, Mariah Carey is a goddamn superstar. She knows it, even if her kid seems woefully unaware.

When you're a gorgeous, famous, successful actress/author/showrunner with 4.3 million Twitter followers, having confidence should be like breathing — right? Not so, according to Mindy Kaling. In an excerpt of her new book, Why Not Me?, published in Glamour, the Mindy Project star reflects on how she's developed and harnessed that magical quality to help her achieve her astonishing professional successes, including being the first Indian-American woman ever to star in a network TV series — which she also happened to create.
Here are four lessons she's learned about having confidence, as explained in her upcoming book.
While some might advocate a "fake it 'til you make it" approach, Kaling's view is different: She sees confidence as stemming from a genuine belief that you deserve what you have and what you're striving for. And that takes time to build. As she said of her early days on The Office:
When I started at The Office, I had zero confidence. Whenever Greg Daniels came into the room to talk to our small group of writers, I was so nervous that I would raise and lower my chair involuntarily, like a tic. Finally, weeks in, writer Mike Schur put his hand on my arm and said, gently, "You have to stop." Years later I realized that the way I had felt during those first few months was correct. I didn't deserve to be confident yet. I happen to believe that no one inherently deserves anything, except basic human rights, and not to have to watch an ad before you watch a trailer on YouTube.
Her Office co-writer Mike Schur remembers things a bit differently, though. As he told New York magazine in a 2012 profile of Kaling, "What was sort of remarkable about Mindy ... was that she was the first one who started acting confidently, like she knew what was going on. ... "I think that she just decides she can do something and then does it."
Perhaps surprisingly, Kaling equates confidence with entitlement, a word she points out "has gotten a bad rap because it's used almost exclusively for the useless children of the rich, reality TV stars, and Conrad Hilton Jr. ..." But to her, entitlement is, again, the belief that you deserve what you get. How do you arrive at that belief? By working your butt off:
I work a lot. Like, a lot a lot. I feel like I must have been watching TV as a kid and that cartoon parable about the industrious ants and the lazy grasshopper came on at a vital moment when my soft little brain was hardening, and the moral of it was imprinted on me. The result of which is that I'm usually hyper-prepared for whatever I set my mind to do, which makes me feel deserving of attention and professional success, when that's what I'm seeking.
Kaling is no stranger to criticism — she's mentioned in several interviews that she's been called not "attractive or funny enough" to have her own show, and Gawker's Rich Juzwiak memorably referred to her as the "human equivalent of a retweeted compliment." But while no one is immune to feeling hurt or discouraged by negative comments, she seems to have achieved some measure of Zen about it:
People get scared when you try to do something, especially when it looks like you're succeeding. People do not get scared when you're failing. It calms them. That's why the show Intervention is a hit and everyone loves "worrying about" Amanda Bynes. But when you're winning, it makes them feel like they're losing or, worse yet, that maybe they should've tried to do something too, but now it's too late. And since they didn't, they want to stop you. You can't let them.
She also calls bullshit on the subtler message behind the whole concept of teaching women to be confident: namely, that nobody is doing the same for men because for men, it seems, confidence is expected to come naturally:
We just assume boys will be confident, like how your parents assume you will brush your teeth every morning without checking in on you in the bathroom. With girls, that assumption flies out the window. Suddenly, your parents are standing in the bathroom with you, watching you brush your teeth with encouraging, worried expressions on their faces. Sweetheart, you can do it! We know it's hard to brush your teeth! We love you! Which must make girls think, Yikes. Is brushing your teeth a really hard and scary thing to do? I thought it was just putting toothpaste on a toothbrush.
Why Not Me? comes out September 17. In the meantime, you can read a longer excerpt from the book at Glamour.
Read more: Hollywood's extreme lack of diversity, explained by a brilliant Tumblr
Jon Stewart's final Daily Show was perhaps the best of the recent spate of late-night talk show finales, an hour-long tribute to the host's time on the show that began as an otherwise normal edition of the program and ended with Bruce Springsteen playing "Born to Run," probably the ultimate fantasy of a New Jersey son like Stewart.

In the meantime, Stephen Colbert made Stewart cry, Martin Scorsese popped up, and the host earnestly asked his audience to watch out for "bullshit." It was everything the Daily Show's most ardent fans could have wanted out of a finale and then some.
But the most significant thing that happened was a reminder of Stewart's stunningly impressive legacy.
Look at all of 'em!
Comedy Central
During Stewart's run on the program, The Daily Show became as reliable a provider of comedic talent as Saturday Night Live. The series produced other talk show hosts — like Stephen Colbert and John Oliver — and a host of big-name actors, including one Oscar nominee (Steve Carell).

Thank you Jon Stewart.


Fittingly, then, the "star-studded" portion of the evening was right at the top. Beginning with three of the show's current correspondents — Jessica Williams, Hasan Minhaj, and Jordan Klepper — claiming to be on the ground covering the night's Republican debate, the segment grew and grew, until it encompassed essentially every major voice in the show's history, dipping all the way back to figures like Mo Rocca and Vance DeGeneres, from Stewart's very early days, and even working in original Daily Show host Craig Kilborn. It was like the alt-comedy version of This Is Your Life. There was even time for a visit from Stewart's biggest targets.
But the biggest moments were for Oliver and Colbert. The former, now on HBO, gently mocked his old boss for continuing to work within the constraints of basic cable, pretending to have no idea what commercials were. The latter made Stewart tear up, first with an elaborate analogy where Colbert was Sam and Stewart Frodo Baggins, then with a heartfelt speech about how much Stewart had meant to all of them.
It concluded with a group hug for the ages.
The many, many correspondents rush the stage to embrace Jon Stewart.
Comedy Central
Wyatt Cenac turned up, after a brief controversy a few weeks ago.
Comedy Central
Former correspondent Cenac made headlines earlier in the summer when he told podcast host Marc Maron that Stewart yelled, "Fuck you!" at Cenac after Cenac raised concerns with Stewart's impression of then-presidential candidate Herman Cain.
In the interview, Cenac said he wasn't yet sure if he could put aside some of his hard feelings about the show to return for the final episode. But he was there for the giant correspondents' reunion, and both Stewart and he ensured the audience that they were good.
Considering a wider dialogue about the issues Cenac raised was probably impossible, this was about as heartwarming a moment as could be expected.
Jon Stewart warns us all against "bullshit."
Comedy Central
In the show's final segment, where an interview with a famous guest would normally sit, Stewart launched into an impassioned monologue to his audience, one that asked them to watch out, at all costs, for "bullshit."
The New York Times's Dave Itzkoff roughly transcribed the speech.

My rough transcript of Jon Stewart's extraordinary "Bullshit is everywhere" speech. pic.twitter.com/guXBbIDD9g


The speech is in keeping with everything Stewart stood for during his tenure on the show. As I wrote earlier, Stewart was intensely, immensely skeptical, and he wasn't afraid to call people on it when he thought they weren't being straight with him. And it didn't matter if the person misleading him was a government official or a movie star — he was there to call out if what they were saying was bullshit.
Also, famously, one of his most famous segments was entitled "Chaos on Bullshit Mountain."

The Daily ShowDaily Show Full Episodes,  More Daily Show Videos,  Comedy Central Full Episodes

If Stewart seemed to have a primary desire, it was to create the same skepticism in his viewers. His final speech, then, stands as a kind of call to arms to not accept the official story or the status quo. Things are darkest, Stewart argues, when they have a seemingly friendly name on them and the most complex when they're easy to overlook.
It wasn't his best monologue or his most impassioned one. But as a final statement of purpose (for now), it worked quite nicely.
Max Weinberg even let Jon Stewart have his drumsticks.
Comedy Central
After one last farewell, Stewart threw to what he called, "my moment of Zen," which turned out to be Bruce Springsteen and the E-Street Band, there to perform "Land of Hope and Dreams" and the end of "Born to Run." It was about as perfect a sendoff as a Jersey native could have hoped for.
Earlier, however, in a segment that will surely be less talked about than others, Stewart took his viewers on a backstage tour of The Daily Show that aped the famous tracking shot from Goodfellas, in order to introduce the crew that had made the show run like clockwork all these years. In the middle of it, the director of that film, Martin Scorsese, appeared in a back room, jokingly warning Stewart that he would sue if the host didn't stop ripping him off.
Nobody makes Marty mad.
Comedy Central
Also, this happened.

We finally found out who actually runs The Daily Show. #JonVoyage pic.twitter.com/hSLrjZNPjw


Make sure the pants fit, Trevor.
Comedy Central
The future host of The Daily Show popped up briefly in the correspondents' segment, measuring the set, desk, and Stewart's crotch with a tape measure, before exiting backstage. Stewart, chagrined, asked, "Can you give me about 20 minutes?" (He would need closer to 50.)
Jon Stewart has one last visit with Gitmo.
Comedy Central
Even if The Daily Show had become an utterly terrible TV program (and it hasn't), then Stewart's legacy would be secure thanks to all of the people who got their starts on his show. That he managed to maintain a mostly high level of quality across 16 years and was the most influential late-night host across much of his run only helps solidify everything that made his program such a must-see for so many.
Perhaps that's why this final episode was less immediately sentimental than the departures of either Colbert or David Letterman. Certainly there were moments when Stewart or others teared up, but for the most part, emotion was more restrained than you might have expected. That, however, made the finale all the more effective. It felt less like an athlete retiring and slouching off the field than it did said athlete being carried off on the shoulders of his teammates after scoring the winning goal in the championship game. Stewart wasn't at the absolute top of his game when he exited, but he was close enough, and that made it all the more interesting to see what would come next.
And it's also worthy of note that he turns the show over to Noah — a man of mixed racial descent from South Africa. If one thing was obvious over the course of the finale, it was that The Daily Show, for all of its progressive bona fides, was still filled with white men behind the scenes and in the writers' room. Late-night TV has always struggled with diversifying its personnel, and The Daily Show was no different. Perhaps Noah will be the person to finally shake this up.
Jon Stewart is very, very surprised to see John Oliver.
Comedy Central
Every time a new correspondent would pop up, Stewart would put on a face of mock surprise that revealed just why his acting career never took off.
Don't worry, Jon. You can always host another TV show.
If you missed the episode, you can catch up at The Daily Show's website.
The Daily ShowGet More: Daily Show Full Episodes,The Daily Show on Facebook,Daily Show Video Archive

While Jon Stewart himself didn't say all that much during a night dedicated to sending off Jon Stewart, he did manage to squeeze in one final speech to warn his viewers against a societal scourge.
"Bullshit," he declared, "is everywhere."

He went on to call out everything from iTunes to banks to Super PACs to the Patriot Act. Since the speech ran for only a couple of minutes, there wasn't a whole lot of time to go in depth on much, like how "we cannot take action on climate change until everyone in the world agrees gay marriage vaccines won't cause our children to marry goats, who are going to come for our guns." Instead, this was a summation of everything Stewart had stood for in his 16-plus years hosting the show.
Still, Stewart took this time in between getting lightly roasted by his staff and his last moment of Zen by leaving his audience with these final words of warning on the prevalence of bullshit: "If you smell something, say something."
The New York Times's Dave Itzkoff took his best shot at transcribing the full speech.
My rough transcript of Jon Stewart's extraordinary "Bullshit is everywhere" speech. pic.twitter.com/guXBbIDD9g

Google News Lab has been tracking just how much people care about Jon Stewart's departure from The Daily Show, an event that has loomed large over the internet's news cycle for months:

The map shows where people are searching for Jon Stewart–related content within 200 regional television markets, revealing that the most interest comes from the West Coast and the Northeast, particularly New England.
A look into your own search history can reveal what's immediately important to you, and the answers can be reassuring and humbling all at once. (I, for instance, have recently prioritized Ronda Rousey, mud volcanoes, and GIFs of Nicki Minaj flipping her hair.) Other times, though, search trends are pretty much what you'd assume — like how looking to the Deep South for Jon Stewart interest might as well send a tumbleweed drifting across your screen:

(Google News Labs)
Still, the map does tell us about some interesting upticks of interest in the New Mexico area, Montana, Texas, and a couple pockets of Florida. The human experience is vast and complex, and mere geography cannot contain ideology — but Stewart's fans pretty much live exactly where you and Fox News would assume they do.
Jon Stewart's final Daily Show, airing Thursday, August 6, will almost certainly be a nostalgia trip. The final episodes of long-running talk shows — see also (recently) David Letterman, Stephen Colbert — almost always are.
But the end of Stewart's run also marks another major shift in late night. Increasingly, the format seems to be dominated by voices that trade in earnestness, not cynical snark. Jimmy Fallon is the new king of the time period, and even if Stewart is exiting at almost the perfect moment, the medium has passed him by, just a little bit.
Jon Stewart always seemed just a few steps away from becoming Howard Beale.
Comedy Central
One thing that's remarked upon too little with Stewart is just what an angry comedian he could be, even in the pre–Daily Show days. As part of a larger feature on major Daily Show moments, comedian Denis Leary (well known for bitter anger himself) told the New York Times:
At some point in the mid- to late ’80s on the New York scene, I was the angry smoking guy and he was the angry smoking Jewish guy. He’s always been cantankerous and angry, even in front of the crowd, but he was so charming and smart. The four tools that he had were the same ones that he started to use when he got on The Daily Show. He has great, real anger; really, really terrific comedy timing; the ability to rant; and the brains.
While Stewart gets praised a lot for his intelligence, his political acumen, and his wickedly sharp sense of humor, you don't often hear the host get praised for his raw, sometimes unsettling anger. But it's that anger, that certainty that something somewhere is very, very wrong and nobody is doing anything to fix it, that ties all of the other elements of Stewart's persona into something coherent and comedic.
Just look, for instance, at all of the attempts by various outlets to find a "conservative" Jon Stewart. Probably the closest anybody came was Dennis Miller, but he didn't succeed as wildly as Stewart because Miller's central persona is that of the smug outsider, the guy who knows you and he are smarter than everybody in the room so you can stand off to the side and mock the others. Bill Maher tried a similar approach to Miller from the libertarian left, and though he carved out a niche, he was nowhere near as impactful as Stewart.
No, the thing that made Stewart so big was that anger. Anger is visceral. It's one of our most basic, potent emotions, and even if you disagreed with what Stewart was angry about, you could feel, on that gut level, just what that anger might feel like. Plus, his targets — politicians and, especially, the national media — were easy to be angry at in the abstract. You could support George W. Bush or Barack Obama and still think the country was going to hell. And Stewart, a milder, funnier Howard Beale, handily channeled that apoplexy.
Stewart, of course, appealed much more to those who leaned left than right, which is why his show sometimes struggled in the Obama era. (Tellingly, he might lay into the administration, but his best material was never really in it in the way it was during the Bush years.) But it was easy to hear around water coolers — first real, then virtual — how Stewart captured the irritation and eventual anger of a political movement that often found itself rudderless during his years hosting the show. Stewart lived in the gap between the real world and the world progressives imagined as a better one, and he kept urging his core audience into that space with him.
Jimmy Fallon and Stephen Colbert will soon be competitors in the late-night realm.
NBC
But I don't really think Jon Stewart is the late-night talk show host anymore. I hope you know what I mean by this. Every few years, some new host takes over as "the" guy, the person you have to watch every night (or at least catch up with on YouTube) if you want to be up on all the biggest jokes the next day. Like Letterman was for much of the '80s and '90s and Johnny Carson was for the '60s and '70s, Stewart was for the '00s. He defined his era, in ways both good and bad.
But Stewart's retirement may end up being as well-timed as any in recent memory, because his brand of angry humor increasingly seems out of step with whatever it is the country wants right now.
By far the most popular late-night talk show of the moment is the very nice, very anodyne Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon, which isn't a bad program, by any means, but lacks any discernible point of view beyond the idea that Fallon has a lot of celebrity friends. And the show is posting the kinds of late-night ratings that aren't supposed to be possible anymore, usually crushing the host's nearest competition.
Jimmy Kimmel over on ABC can be darkly acerbic, but in recent years he's trended more toward gentle wackiness, which plays better in YouTube clips. And even if Stephen Colbert (soon to be hosting CBS's late-night show) seems cut from the same cloth as Stewart, he's always been much gentler than his old boss. His satire could be savage, but it was rooted, on some level, in a kind of passionate optimism, a belief that things could be better someday. (Stewart seemed to think things would just keep getting worse, but that would be fine so long as it stayed funny.) And that's to say nothing of James Corden and Seth Meyers, stuffed even deeper into late-night and seemingly even more influenced by Fallon.
Because late-night talk shows are often such a good barometer of our national mood — they're among the few scripted programs that have to have topical material each and every night, after all — it's tempting to read too much into them, to assign to them the traits of the generations who supposedly enjoy them. But there's still something to the way that Fallon has become so very popular — and to how much his competitors seem to want to be him now.
Jon Stewart faces off with Bill O'Reilly.
Comedy Central
Close in hand with Stewart's pessimism and cynicism was a kind of rough-hewn skepticism. The man was quick to toss aside the premise his guests brought to the show, whether that was a politician defending a disastrous health-care rollout or a celebrity guest with a movie Stewart thought might be terrible. He was pretty sure it was all bullshit. (He shares this quality with Letterman, another interviewer who could quickly and easily become utterly disengaged from what his guest was saying.)
That's a lot harder to spot with Fallon and his imitators. Fallon's chief advantage is the way he makes it seem like the audience is right there, hanging out with his celebrity guests. And that, to some degree, requires a degree of buying into whatever's being sold. It requires a kind of trust in whatever the guest is saying, no matter who that guest might be. It's difficult to imagine Fallon conducting an adversarial interview, nor would we want him to. None of his appeal lies in that direction.
Skepticism and irony and cynicism, then, have given way to a sort of earnestness. The economy is growing healthier. The US is much less involved in foreign wars than it was for the past decade and a half. And the leading candidate for a major party nomination is a reality TV show billionaire. It's a good time for earnest humor that proceeds from a desire for connection, not antagonism.
Intriguingly, both Stewart and the show he has hosted all these years seem to have realized this as well. His successor, Trevor Noah, tells politically motivated jokes — at a recent standup set of his I had a chance to see, an extended runner on how he doesn't know how "not to die" as a black man in the United States was particularly masterful — but he, tellingly, seems to skew more toward the idea that by pointing light into our darkest corners, he might encourage us to become better people.
Stewart and Noah can talk about the exact same story — say, the constant death of young black men at the hands of the police in America — and the former might shake his head in despair and say, "Can you believe this shit?" while the latter might suggest, "How can we fix this shit?" Stewart looked backward at horrible closed conversations. Noah (based on, admittedly, a limited sample size) looks forward to using those horrific stories to open new conversations that might be more fruitful than ones of the past.
That seems, perhaps, the right approach for an age that is more interested in engaging with deep, seemingly unsolvable problems than prior decades. But it also suggests that Stewart is choosing the exact right moment to step down. As he does, however, let's not forget that part of what made him so potent was that rage, that sense that the world would always be out of joint and he was the only one out there yelling about it.
Jon Stewart will host his last episode of The Daily Show on Thursday, leaving behind a legacy that genuinely transformed how people view and consume the news. But Stewart is also leaving behind a legacy that didn't appear to do much to elevate women and minority celebrities.
Vocativ's Tracy Clark-Flory and Tal Reznik looked back at Stewart's guest over the years, finding that 75 percent of his 21 most frequent guests were white men, two were women, and one was black (although Fareed Zakaria, an Indian-born American journalist, was the most frequent quest):
Vocativ
It's possible to take this chart in a few ways. One could see it as evidence that The Daily Show was somehow — explicitly or implicitly — racist or sexist in how it selected guests. Or perhaps this is a broader reflection of society as a whole — suggesting that white men are simply (and sadly) more interesting to The Daily Show's viewers, and those working on the show to land these interviews know it.
But The Daily Show has been troubled by diversity in the past. Last month, Wyatt Cenac, a former correspondent for The Daily Show, said on Marc Maron's WTF podcast that Stewart shouted at him to "Fuck off!" when he suggested that Stewart's impression of Republican presidential candidate Herman Cain, who is black, was racially insensitive. Cenac's retelling of the exchange prompted a producer on the show to admit to the New York Times's Dave Itzkoff that The Daily Show has "blind spots" when it comes to race.
But it's not just race. A 2010 investigation by Jezebel's Irin Carmon found the show had a "woman problem," with multiple women staffers of The Daily Show claiming that they were warned they would have a hard time staying on the show for very long.
These issues paint a far more complicated picture of Stewart and The Daily Show, which has been viewed as a progressive bastion over the past several years. And they put more pressure on the show's new host, Trevor Noah, who is black, to take diversity more seriously.
Whether you loved, hated, or shrugged at Jurassic World, we can probably at least agree on one thing: Damn, those fighting dinosaurs looked cool.
But the most impressive special effects in Jurassic World might actually be the effects nobody even noticed. See, CG effects aren't just for creating extinct animals, superheroes, or explosions that make swaggering away look extra awesome. As the RocketJump Film School confirms in the slick new video above, CG effects are now used for everything.

Even to fill in the backgrounds in Mad Max: Fury Road! (RocketJump)
RocketJump produced "Why CG Sucks (Except It Doesn't)" to show just how pervasive CG effects are in film now — and how viewers mostly notice them when they're especially bad, something that has given computer effects a bad name. Narrator Freddie Wong details the many common uses of CG effects that viewers might not even be aware of. Car chases, planes, animals, crowds, and entire cities can be — and usually are — digitally created to avoid needlessly complicated or dangerous shots.
The video is meticulous, but fast-paced and visually impressive enough to hold the attention of even the most reluctant film student. The before/after comparisons for effects on everything from The Avengers to Mad Max: Fury Road to Game of Thrones are spectacular cases for just how good CG effects have become, for both the incredible big picture and the tiniest of details.

Check out how the computer drops in a completely virtual crowd for this Game of Thrones establishing shot. (RocketJump)
But RocketJump doesn't just want people to be more aware of the incredible work going into fictional worlds. After showing all the ways CG effects enhance even the most banal of scenes, Wong makes a case for why complaints about poor visual effects ruining a movie are misplaced. If technically lacking visual effects don't bother you in an otherwise great movie, Wong argues, you might be engrossed enough by the strong storytelling that you don't need an "easy scapegoat":
When we think about a great movie, what do we think about? We think about story, we think about character, and when the visual effects aren't perfect, we forgive it. So maybe the reason why people seem to think visual effects are ruining movies isn't really a problem with the visual effects. Maybe it's just a problem with the movies themselves.

The process that goes into good effects can be fascinating. (RocketJump)
Still, if you're one of those people who has nostalgia for creaky puppets and watching people react to what was clearly a tennis ball on a stick, we can't help you (and probably shouldn't tell you about the Sony's upcoming Jumanji remake, which may just have monkeys that don't look like they crawled out of a video game).

Sixteen years is a long time for any relationship. At that point, you've gotten past the honeymoon stage, the one-year "was this just a phase?" stage, the seven-year itch, and the pleasing round numbers of 10 and 15 years.
So it's understandable that many longtime Daily Show viewers are taking the end of Jon Stewart's time at the desk a little personally. The internet is stacked with eulogies and remembrances, tributes and sendoffs for the guy who's been letting them turn their outrage over to someone else, even if just for 20 minutes, since 1999.
But the way people are talking about Stewart leaving The Daily Show makes it sound like The Daily Show is leaving with him when he bows out on August 6, and that's just not true.
Yes, South African comedian Trevor Noah will debut at the desk on September 28, and he has indeed promised to pivot away from the show's usual target of cable news and toward online media. But he and others involved with the show have insisted that general spirit of The Daily Show won't stray too far from the one people are preemptively mourning.
Even though Stewart's name was on the door, he was never the entirety of The Daily Show. The team behind it will remain largely the same — including, according to Comedy Central, all the current correspondents. There has been some serious turnover in the recent years, including longtime correspondents Samantha Bee and Jason Jones's defection to TBS. But as Stewart's been winding down, his writing team and slate of correspondents have been turning out consistently sharp commentary.
Here are seven reasons besides Noah (in no particular order) to care about a Jon Stewart–less Daily Show.

Fans were disappointed when Jessica Williams confirmed that she wouldn't be taking over The Daily Show, but if she took over the desk, we'd be deprived of her singular presence in the field. The 25-years-old's segments have been some of the show's best (not to mention most viral) thanks to her cutting delivery on issues like street harassment and racial profiling. Williams, the first African-American woman to be a full-time correspondent on the show, has also developed a way of calling out Stewart for outdated logic with fondness, like she's educating an eager-to-please if out-of-touch uncle. She'll have to adjust that banter when 31-year-old Noah takes over, but her voice is so strong that there's no way a format change can stifle it.
Strengths: Highlighting racial and gendered violence, calling people out, dancing like everybody's watching and nobody cares.
The Daily ShowDaily Show Full Episodes,  More Daily Show Videos,  Comedy Central Full Episodes
Klepper struggled at first to find his place on The Daily Show when he was brought in to replace John Oliver, but he has since settled nicely into one of my favorite characters: the oblivious privileged white guy. Where Jason Jones was an aggressive frat bro, Klepper's version is his dopey but well-meaning recruit. Klepper is especially good when he's acting opposite Jessica Williams's straight talk, like this standout piece they did together on campus sexual assault.
Strengths: Playing oblivious and/or privileged, nervous laughter, strong tie game.
The Daily ShowDaily Show Full Episodes,  More Daily Show Videos,  Comedy Central Full Episodes
Mandvi has been with the show since 2006, and though he now primarily acts in comedies like HBO's The Brink, he's still one of the best interviewers on the Daily Show staff. He seems perpetually gobsmacked, like he can't quite believe what he's hearing but, hey, he needs to hear it. He's more sarcastic than most of the correspondents on this list, which helps him when he needs to handle a particularly difficult subject. His straightforward approach and incredulous looks to the camera are solid additions to interviews that threaten to devolve into circuses.
Strengths: Interviews, finely tuned radar for nonsense, a stellar "did you really want to go there?" grimace.

Minhaj (hired at the same time as Noah) came to the show from standup comedy, and it shows. He might not have quite as strong a character as the other correspondents, but he's patient and confident enough with punchlines to barrel through them, letting the jokes fly by in escalating absurdity before the bit finally crystallizes. When Minhaj drops some knowledge, he tends to look at the camera with a raised eyebrow like he's challenging you to fight back but knows you won't. When I watch a Minhaj segment, it feels like I'm on the receiving end of the most intellectual version there is of "come at me, bro."
Strengths: Quick delivery, laissez-faire confidence, perfect hair.
The Daily ShowDaily Show Full Episodes,  More Daily Show Videos,  Comedy Central Full Episodes
Madrigal, who has been with the show since 2011, manages to straddle the line between the show's arch disdain and cartoonish outrage with ease. His dry, laconic delivery should pair nicely with Noah's amused deadpan. The Senior Latino Correspondent also finds success leaning in and out of stereotypes as he calls out racist panic, which should serve him well in the upcoming election cycle.
Strengths: Ability to establish an easy rapport with just about anyone, glasses.

Since Schaal joined The Daily Show in 2008, she has become one of the most recognizable voices in comedy — literally. She currently lends her distinctive yowl to cartoons Bob's Burgers, Gravity Falls, and BoJack Horseman, and she is a regular on Will Forte's awesomely weird Fox experiment The Last Man on Earth. She's no less restrained on The Daily Show, where she taps in occasionally to tackle Lady Issues. Her segments, which play off ludicrous stereotypes of women and Schaal's ability to widen her eyes into a real life "who, me?" Betty Boop cartoon are reliably hysterical.
Strengths: Total commitment to any ridiculous bit, unsettling hyper energy, delivering complex rants without missing a beat, and/or opportunity to put down sexists.

Many have said it, but that doesn't make it less true: The Daily Show alumni network is stacked with astonishing careers. Just check out the above video, produced by Digg. Correspondents have included comedians that have gone on to huge success in movies, television, and beyond. Stephen Colbert and Larry Wilmore spun their own shows off The Daily Show to make the satirical news show a Comedy Central franchise. Steve Carell is one of the most reliable draws in show business, and his wife, Nancy Walls, was also a correspondent in the Craig Kilborn era. Other Daily Show alums include comedians Rob Riggle, Rob Corddry, his brother Nate Corddry, Demetri Martin, Wyatt Cenac, Olivia Munn, Mo Rocca, Ed Helms, and on and on the list goes. Really, the only other show that rivals The Daily Show's roster of famous comedic alumni is Saturday Night Live. There's a hell of a lot of comedic talent out there, and even if the show's title changes, there's no reason to believe that Trevor Noah's version wouldn't try to keep up the tradition.
The Daily ShowGet More: Daily Show Full Episodes,The Daily Show on Facebook,Daily Show Video Archive

The Daily Show's Jon Stewart had a bit of fun with the wise and beautiful people who curate his show's segments on their websites, mocking headlines that claim he eviscerates, destroys, obliterates, and crushes things.
The Daily Show/Comedy Central
"We demolished. Crushed. We annihilated things," Stewart joked. "I can remember one night even the Hulk was like, 'Dude, hey, slow down. I mean, Hulk angry, but please.'"
The satirical segment was a fitting start to the second-to-last episode of Stewart's tenure, which has supplied the media with lots of easily curatable content (and traffic). But it's also a reminder that the media is going to have to find someone else to destroy other people and things once Stewart is gone. Will Trevor Noah, the new host of The Daily Show, be able to fill the role each night?

Talk to anybody who works in television and they'll freely express how the next five to 10 years are critical for the industry. Everything is going to change.
In the future, networks will probably be brands, more than anything else. When you can watch anything at any time on any number of platforms, it really won't matter where it came from. That's a problem if you're a company whose entire reason for existing is providing content to viewers that can be supported by advertising.
So if you're, say, ABC, you're probably thinking about this strange new world. And if you're ABC, you might decide everything could be solved with branding.
The new serial killer drama Wicked City is apparently part of ABC's strategy to appeal to millennials.
ABC
I've often thought that CBS and ABC seem especially well-positioned to survive the upcoming TV Ragnarok — CBS for its giant war chest of cash, and ABC because of all four major networks, I most know what an ABC show is. It's soapy and sexy and often has a female lead — think Scandal or Nashville. And if it's a comedy, it's probably centered on a goofy family of one sort or another — like Modern Family or Fresh Off the Boat.
By contrast, Fox seems as if it will eventually just disappear into 20th Century Fox, its parent corporation (and arguably is already in the early stages of this), while NBC ... well, who knows what NBC is doing.
But it's also possible this assumption is just ABC getting under my skin subconsciously. At the network's day at the 2015 Television Critics Association summer press tour, everybody up there pitching the network's shows, both new and old, was relentlessly on-message when it came to what it meant to be an ABC show. The biannual executive session featured network president Paul Lee saying the word "ABC" so often that it almost seemed as if he were inventing a drinking game.
In some ways, this is why Lee is the perfect network head for this age. He really does believe that this enhanced branding isn't just necessary but true. At one point, he said something about how nobody in TV does heroines like ABC heroines — and even though this is a golden age of lead roles for women on television, I still found myself half believing him, because, hey, ABC does have a lot of shows prominently starring women, including the long-running hit Grey's Anatomy and the upcoming Quantico. (At one point, the star of that latter show, Bollywood superstar Priyanka Chopra, making her American television debut, said all of the golden-age TV programs that made her want to star on American TV were on ABC. Clearly, the network's talking points were strong.)
The network also has the cocky swagger of one that really thinks it's on the right path. It picked up a new series about the Muppets much more quickly than anybody anticipated, and it only sent critics the first five minutes of its upcoming drama Wicked City, when the expected practice is to send the full pilot or skip sending anything entirely if the pilot's really disastrous. Just five minutes? Whatever. ABC doesn't care.
(That pilot, it should be said, also opens with a man receiving oral sex from a woman, then murdering her like she was cannon fodder in a slasher movie. When the producers got up to explain what they were thinking, they said they hoped to make a show full of strong women — and, again, because this is ABC, where nobody does heroines like ABC heroines, I half believed them!)
How to Get Away With Murder, starring Viola Davis, was a big part of ABC's recent surge.
ABC
Whatever Lee is doing (even if it's just leaning into the cyclical nature of the television industry), it's turning the network's fortunes around. ABC's ratings were up more than any of the big four networks in the 2014-'15 season, launching a staggering number of new hits, including Black-ish and How to Get Away With Murder, which posted some of the best numbers for new shows in years.
Lee occasionally seems like a collection of Twitter hashtags piled on top of each other in the rough form of a man — he spent much of his session telling reporters that Wicked City had tested "through the roof!" with millennials, who don't really watch TV utilizing traditional methods — but there's something about his relentless belief that branding will save everybody that makes him seem like some sort of weirdly prophetic figure.
Of all major network heads, Lee alone seems most interested in incorporating literally every storytelling option he can think of. He'll try miniseries. He'll do big, serialized soaps. He'll toss out a detective show or two. He'll even offer a musical about a singing knight.
He also continues to be one of the boldest major TV executives in terms of backing projects he really believes in. His taste is a little weird — like he really loves that daffy musical Galavant for some reason — but he is more likely to back, say, the incredibly grim American Crime, which tells a brand new ripped-from-the-headlines story about the intersections of race, gender, class, and power every season. Crime didn't get great ratings, but Lee really loved it, so it's back. And the Emmys backed up that faith, rewarding the show with 10 nominations — and propelling ABC to the highest nomination total of any of the broadcast networks.
Lee doesn't seem to always know what the future is, but unlike other networks' heads, he's always running heedlessly toward it. He'll find out if there's light at the end of the tunnel when he gets there, and if there is, he might just take ABC with him to salvation.
For every actor who breaks out thanks to wacky pratfalls or bursting through walls firing a gun (or five) in action movies, there are 20 other would-be thespians saving up for new headshots just around the corner. Breaking into Hollywood is a rough business, one that usually brings out the worst in people, so it makes sense that the person who figured out how to have a sense of humor about the whole thing was Tom Hanks.
Susan Stamberg of NPR was poking around the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences Library in Los Angeles when she came across a letter an 18-year-old Hanks sent to director George Roy Hill (The Sting) in 1974. Stamberg describes his "labored teenage writing" to give the full picture, but the actual text of the letter has plenty of teenage boy tells.
For one, Hanks uses such hip slang as "BANGO!" for emphasis. For another, he signs off with "Respectfully submitted, your pal forever," which is endearing in an eager-to-please, puppy dog kind of way. Finally, the letter (which you can read in full at the Guardian) is self-deprecating in a way that circles back around to cocky, a teenage boy staple:
"Now, right away I know what you are thinking: ‘Who is this kid?’ and I can understand your apprehensions. I am a nobody. No one outside of Skyline High School has heard of me ... My looks are not stunning. I am not built like a Greek God, and I can’t even grow a mustache, but I figure if people will pay to see certain films ... they will pay to see me."
Thomas J. Hanks of Alameda, California, ends his plea for relevance with some managed expectations, which, in retrospect, were pretty spot-on for how movie star Tom Hanks approached his career and public persona:
Mr. Hill, I do not want to be some bigtime, Hollywood superstar with girls crawling all over me, just a hometown American boy who has hit the big-time, owns a Porsche, and calls Robert Redford "Bob".
If there's a more succinct description of Tom Hanks than "hometown American boy who has hit the big-time," we haven't heard it. BANGO!
The Daily ShowGet More: Daily Show Full Episodes,The Daily Show on Facebook,Daily Show Video Archive

The Daily Show has hosted some bizarre guests in its on-the-field pieces during Jon Stewart's tenure — from racists and homophobes to a prominent pastor who said President Barack Obama is Adolf Hitler. For many viewers, the bizarre comments have raised the question: Are these people real?
Last night, Stewart sat down with Jessica Williams, a correspondent of the show, to get some answers. It all seemed to come down to one thing, Williams explained: "They are real, and they do know who we are, and they don't care because we bring a camera with us."
But would these former guests stick to their controversial comments if given another opportunity? Williams followed up with some of the guests to find out.
The Daily Show/Comedy Central
The Daily Show/Comedy Central
Take, for instance, James David Manning, the ATLAH World Missionary Church chief pastor who previously equated Obama with Hitler.
"The things that he has accomplished are ultra evil," Manning said. "It takes a certain amount of evil spirit and demented, if you will, personality to do what he has done."
"I'm just trying to get this right," Williams replied. "You're doubling down on what you said six years ago?"
"You could say that, yes," Manning responded. "I'm leaning more toward Obama being like the son of Satan."
Williams said this was the typical response to her follow-up to field guests: Most people didn't just stand by their comments, they were actually happy that they had appeared on The Daily Show.
"I understood when you asked me to be on the show exactly what it was going to be about," Manning said. "It was going to be an attempt to make my ideas seem buffoonery. But I agreed to do it anyway, because I didn't think you would succeed at it. And you didn't."

One of the biggest stories to come out of San Diego Comic-Con in July was the upcoming movie featuring Ryan Reynolds's Deadpool — an antihero who goes against the grain of comic book superheroes like the Avengers, Superman, and Batman. The other big story about the Deadpool movie was that its trailer, along with X-Men: Apocalypse DC's Suicide Squad, had leaked online.
On Tuesday, Fox unveiled the official trailer for Deadpool (above)— Reynolds had said Fox wanted to clean up the special effects before its wide release. Fox also released a red band version of the trailer:

Deadpool will hit theaters on February 16, 2016.
In the time that it takes you to wash your hands, MMA fighter Ronda Rousey wins championship bouts.
You're supposed to wash those paws for 20 seconds, doctors say, to demolish the dirt and crud that will make you sick. But if you got up to wash your hands during Ronda Rousey's 2014 fight against Alexis Davis (a black belt) and did your due diligence, you would have missed the 16-second "fight" by the time you pumped soap into your hand.
Calling what Rousey does to opponents a "fight" is kind. Fights imply a sense of unpredictability or some kind of resistance. Rousey's fights are more like an annihilation — like watching a freight train run into cotton candy. Entering the octagon with Rousey is a death sentence for your limbs. And watching Rousey in the cage is witnessing an octopus-anaconda hybrid take human form and hunt for its dinner:
Ronda Rousey (black shorts) does not play. (UFC)
Rousey's full arsenal was on display on Saturday night. Rousey defended her UFC bantamweight title in 34 seconds. Her opponent, Bethe Correia, talked mountains of trash before the fight, even including jabs at Rousey's late father and his suicide. Why would Correia have such blatant disregard for her life and limbs? That I cannot explain.
But Rousey's rise to success, her fame, and her sustained excellence are a bit easier to grasp and, well, admire.
On paper, the fight wasn't really out of the norm. Once again, Rousey's opponent didn't last past the first round (only one has) — and didn't even last past the first minute of the first round (only four have). Correia was wrecked. But the fight was unique in that it provided a reference point for Rousey, who is having a pop culture moment — a moment when she's transcending the sport of mixed martial arts and becoming a standard for female athletes.
It's the peak of a busy 2015.
In April, Rousey starred in Furious 7, one of the biggest movies of the year. In it, she played the head bodyguard of a Middle Eastern aristocrat and went toe to toe with Letty (Michelle Rodriguez). That was about a month after a viral interview in which a male interviewer challenged Rousey and subsequently had his ribs broken. In June, Rousey appeared as herself in the Entourage movie. And in July, she won the ESPY Award for best fighter, and then, as part of her acceptance, asked if boxer Floyd Mayweather felt like "getting beat by a woman for once." (Mayweather, one of the premier boxers on the planet, has a past peppered with accusations of domestic violence.)
Rousey had become part of our pop culture fabric and collective consciousness. This put a lot of weight and pressure on Rousey delivering on Saturday's fight — the first huge fight since her pop culture boom.
Correia, Rousey's undefeated opponent, played into this too. Leading up to the fight, she talked the aforementioned trash, including a jab at Rousey's father, who killed himself.
She had said:
She [Rousey] is winning, so everybody is around her cheering her up, but when she realizes she is not everything that she believes she is, I don’t know what might happen.
I hope she does not kill herself later on. [she laughs]
Rousey responded with the word "comeuppance":
@bethecorreia suicide is no joke or selling point. My father will be with me the day I hand you the comeuppance you deserve.

Somehow, Correia didn't stop there. At the weigh-ins for UFC 190 (the event where the fight takes place), she got into Rousey's face during a photo op, puffed her eyeballs to anime levels, and repeatedly said, "Don't cry."
It was time for Rousey to deliver and live up to her myth. She did it in 34 seconds. Again, the fight was lackluster. It was a total Rousey domination. Rousey beat Correia like she was the human embodiment of a Monday.
But the best, most Rousey, part of this all was that after she had eaten Correia's lunch and knocked her into oblivion, Rousey told Correia and her fans, "Don't cry."
Rousey doesn't just win (she's 11-0). She wins at an astoundingly fast rate. FiveThirtyEight's Andrew Flowers found that Rousey goes against the grain of MMA fights by winning in seconds while the majority of MMA fights have gotten longer:
(FiveThirtyEight/Andrew Flowers)
When we talk about an athlete's greatness, there's usually one defining battle that they have had to endure. Michael Jordan and Kobe Bryant had game sevens, Roger Federer has had monster fifth sets, Serena Williams came back from a career-threatening injury and hospitalization (which led to losses), and Manny Pacquiao has lost to the openly unlikable Floyd Mayweather. These setbacks, defeats, and struggles have pushed these athletes to be better. They are emphatic punctuation marks on their careers.
Rousey's MMA career doesn't have a chapter like that. Her record is poreless, smooth like marble. She doesn't know what it's like to lose in the Octagon. She exercises complete domination over a sport. The one "thorn" in her side is a woman named Miesha Tate. Again, "thorn" is generous. Tate has just put up more resistance than the other women Rousey has fought. Deadspin explains:
Of Rousey’s 25 minutes in the cage, 15 and a half have been against Tate. Tate has lasted longer than all of Rousey’s other opponents combined, and is the closest thing the champ has to a rival. This is not, of course, to say that they are rivals. Neither fight was close, and when they fight again, Rousey will send one of Tate’s elbows the wrong way once more.
But while Rousey's winning streak is remarkable, it's the way she's winning that makes her a once-in-a-lifetime type of athlete.
Rousey is clearly a superhuman genetically engineered in a government-funded underground bunker where scientists have managed to splice the striking speed of a mamba, the strength of a grizzly bear, and the swirling limbs of an octopus with the lost clone of Julia Stiles.
But Rousey's human cover story is almost as interesting. Born in Riverside, California, she won a bronze medal in judo at the 2008 Summer Olympics — the first American women to ever medal in the sport.
But Olympic stars, save for gymnasts, figure skaters, and a handful of runners and swimmers, usually don't get the kinds of life-altering endorsement deals other athletes do. Rousey was in Los Angeles tending bar after the Olympics when she saw MMA on television, and thought she could do that.
She wrote in her memoir, My Fight/Your Fight:
Everyone in the bar kind of nodded to humor me. It was obvious that no one believed me. The fact that I was doing absolutely nothing with my life was apparent to everyone … I had endured so much to get to the Olympics. All along the way I told myself that the result would be amazing; that it would be worthwhile … My disappointment haunted me. I didn't know how to cope with it. I was trying to drink myself into contentment, but I still wasn't happy and I didn't understand why.
MMA became her passion, and she picked up the sport in 2011, beginning with nondescript, unwatched fights, in hopes she would be able to fight in the UFC.
As Rousey began focusing her talent and training in MMA, UFC president Dana White was making sexist remarks (also in 2011). The Wall Street Journal explains that White was walking out of a restaurant and was asked whether people should expect to see women in the sport:
When are we going to see women in the UFC?
"Never," White says, chuckling.
The most powerful man in the sport steps into his ride, closes the door, and the black SUV rolls away, mwahahaha.
The paper continues, detailing that Rousey caught up with White months after this quip about women in the UFC and eventually convinced him to take her on:
Rousey found White at a UFC event in Las Vegas. "I’m going to fight for you someday," she promised. "And I’m going to be your first female world champion." In 2012, White took Rousey to Mr Chow and told her he was bringing her aboard.
Fast forward three years, and Rousey is now the big-name draw with endorsements from Buffalo Jeans and Reebok.
I've mentioned a couple of times now that watching Rousey is like watching some kind of dream-eating animal hybrid come to life. Her fighting style epitomizes that. It stems from her judo training, and what you'll notice from the majority of her fights is that Rousey will get in close, crowd an opponent, then trip or throw her to the ground:
A fight between Rousey and Miesha Tate (UFC)
It's what happens in the split second after the takedown that makes Rousey so lethal. Her limbs become autonomous tentacles of swirling, liquid muscle, pinning, pulling, and prying away at an opponent as if each one were trying to shuck a reluctant oyster.
Once she's found a wayward appendage (left arm or right arm, you choose), she changes her point of attack, directing her 135 pounds of muscle to make it bend in the most unnatural and painful of ways.
Rousey has won nine of her matches by pulling and popping her opponents' elbows and arms in ways they are not meant to be pulled and popped. Rousey has that quality lots of great athletes at their peaks have: When she hits her stride, you know exactly what's coming. And as her opponents have found, there's nothing to prepare you for the onslaught.
When we watch her on TV, it's hard to imagine the raw physicality that Rousey is bringing into the fight. The angles we see of the cage are meant to give us the best view of the fight, show us the bloodied faces, and somehow get those two bodies working against one another into one great shot. What the television doesn't get across is how fast Rousey is moving and the sheer weight of her muscle working against her opponents. Those opponents aren't slouches; Rousey is just faster, stronger, and more unpredictable than they are.
Submission isn't the only way in which Rousey wins. In her match on Saturday, she pummeled Correia into submission with a barrage of punches — showing that she is constantly improving and finding out more ways to obliterate opponents.
Rousey improving would only mean more pain for her opponents.
Rousey's story is inspirational and one of clear dominance — proof that if you devote yourself to something, it can and will happen for you. Stories like this are valuable. But she's also a role model in other ways.
Rousey's rise to glory has coincided with a cultural moment and appreciation for America's female athletes. Serena Williams won this year's Wimbledon championships and the US women's soccer team won the World Cup.
In Williams's and Rousey's case, both have been buffoonishly criticized for having "masculine" bodies. The New York Times had an entire story about female tennis players not wanting to build muscle because they're afraid to look masculine. But you need muscle if you want to go stroke for stroke with Serena Williams.
"I’m really happy with my body type, and I’m really proud of it. Obviously it works out for me," Williams told the Times.
But even Williams was quick to say she doesn't lift as much as we think she does. "I don’t touch a weight, because I’m already super fit and super cut, and if I even look at weights, I get bigger," she added.
Williams is being too kind and too polite. Her words show that she harbors a little bit of self-consciousness about how muscular she can get. Granted, UFC isn't Wimbledon, and MMA isn't steeped in the stodgy decorum of tennis, but Rousey is much more willing to say that having a muscular body is nothing to be ashamed of. Instead, she said during a UFC interview, she's proud of it:
Listen, just because my body was developed for a purpose other than fucking millionaires doesn’t mean it’s masculine.
I think it’s femininely badass because there’s not a single muscle on my body that isn’t for a purpose, because I’m not a Do Nothing Bitch.
It’s not very eloquently said, but it’s to the point and maybe that’s just what I am.

Although Rousey's message resonates with and inspires women, it doesn't mean it's exclusively for girls and women. There's something deeply empathetic and awe-inspiring in finding your purpose, being proud of who you are, and living with the honesty that Rousey does.
Rousey's personality, her superhuman ability to not give a shit, is her real appeal.  People are not tuning in to see a fight when they watch Rousey — we know she's going to win. We're watching because we want to see this indomitable human do things that she was told she couldn't — the fights are just a small part of that.  We want to see her crush the fighter who made fun of her dead father. We want to see her tell people not to cry. And we'd all be lying if we said there wasn't a part of us rooting for Ronda Rousey to do all the things we think we can't.
After a True Detective season of brooding episodes that moved at a stately (if we're being extremely charitable) pace, "Black Maps and Motel Rooms" takes off at a gallop. The comparable episode in season one was a slower-paced affair with lots and lots of exposition; this one remembered that, at least, if you're going to explain what's going on, it's better to do so when the heroes are outnumbered and under the gun.

Which is exactly what happens here! Ray, Paul, and Ani hole up in a motel room to go through the files they stole at the gigantic orgy from episode six, and those files reveal a lot of what's going on this season (while still not revealing why we're supposed to care about much of it, considering how much of it revolves around stuff that's tangential at best). But outside the motel room, the world is looking for the trio, and their days would seem to be numbered. This turns out to be literally true in the case of Paul, who's gunned down as the hour ends.
"Black Maps" occasionally feels as if it's about to fly off the rails, but at least it's a different tone and pace from the stuff that's come before. Backing the heroes into a corner they won't get out of is the kind of thing seemingly every story like this does at some point, but at least there are some dramatic stakes for once.
Plus, the episode was brilliantly directed by Daniel Attias, who lit scenes with gunfire, emphasized the bleak darkness about to swallow the characters, and made motel rooms seem downright homey.
Heading into the season finale, I'm at least somewhat interested by what's going to happen, and that's not something I thought I would say even two weeks ago. Let's take a look at some of the season's biggest questions, as answered by this episode.
Paul (Taylor Kitsch) knows who Bird Head is now. Poor Paul.
HBO
Okay, I could totally be wrong about this (though it would take some pretty fancy plotting to avoid this obvious conclusion), but it sure seems like Lieutenant Kevin Burris was the man in the bird-shaped mask. He's the one who kills Paul, and it makes a lot of sense that he would have, say, shot Ray with the riot shells. (After all, that always suggested he was in law enforcement.)
Also, he's played by James Frain, which should have been indication enough.
Now, I don't entirely know what Bird Head's end game is (especially if he's Burris). I have some theories, but none of them make sense in totality, and it sure seems like he's either exposed the conspiracy far too heavily if he's on their side, or has done a pretty terrible job of stopping their plans if he's up against them. I suspect what's happening here is that he's just the guy who cleans up loose ends — and his method of doing so tends toward the theatrical, which allows for greater weirdness. But who the hell knows?
Basically everybody. (Okay, not Mayor Chessani. Poor Mayor Chessani.)
No, seriously. Paul's ex-lover. The Panticapaeum Institute. The mayor's son. The Russian mob. Black Mountain. They're all part of this thing, even if only tangentially. It gets to the point where the photos of Paul with his lover are used as blackmail material because he just happened to be working with the conspiracy, which just happened upon the two of them together and took some pictures just in case. The conspiracy is like everything you've always worried about the NSA and Google — combined.
Is it any wonder why Vera wants to get back to said conspiracy? It's where literally everybody hangs out.
On its surface, none of this makes a lick of sense. But I'm not convinced it needs to. This episode requires a huge suffusion of paranoia, and having seemingly everybody in the world in on a massive criminal conspiracy more or less worked in this regard.
Frank (Vince Vaughn) is reinvigorated by striking back at the people who are trying to take his empire from him.
HBO
Sadly, this is kind of boring, even if it at least finally gave Frank stuff to do that was closer to the center of the show. The conspiracy is tied to — and largely funded by — the Russian mob, in the form of Russian-Israeli Osip, and the mob hopes to cash in on the railway parcels. In the process of this, they've gotten extremely close to pushing Frank out of the game entirely.
All of this, however, is just pretext for Frank to finally let go of any illusions of going legitimate and just start burning things to the ground. He does so literally — with the casino and club that Osip just bought out from under him — and metaphorically, when he kills Blake.
Frank's plan to get out of the country is the first time his actions have made sense this season, and if Ray and Ani are in desperate straits as the season concludes, then Frank is really in trouble. It's hard to imagine him getting out of this alive, but that could also mean he'll emerge from all of this victorious. Sometimes, embracing your brutality is the way to survive on this show, and Frank has more than done that.
Probably Laura, who turns out to be one of the orphans from the LA Riots diamond heist we heard so much about last week and Caspere's secretary and  someone from the "hooker parties." (I refuse to type that phrase without the scare quotes.) There's a chance it's somebody else — probably more of one than there is that Bird Head is Burris — but all of this makes the most sense.
And what's beautiful about this is that if it was Laura, then Caspere's death had nothing to do with the conspiracy at all. Instead, it was just a young woman who wanted revenge against one of the men who was behind her parents' death all those years ago. Thus, the reveal of the conspiracy happened because it didn't account for an incredibly random coincidence — which is the way everything is revealed on this show.
Ani would also like to know the answer to this question.
HBO
Honestly, I don't know. I guess they're just a MacGuffin — a valuable object that kicks the plot into motion, even if their importance to the whole story is so deeply buried that it's tempting to ascribe more meaning to them than they actually desire.
Because, I mean, if all of this happened because some corrupt public officials wanted to use the cover of a riot to steal some diamonds, that would be wryly cynical, in that very True Detective way.
Sort of! Even if Paul died and took his ex-lover with him — and even if his death leaves his fiancée and unborn child in the lurch — it was time for Ani and Ray to hook up, as you might expect to happen, given the fact that they are the male and female leads, and the male and female leads must hook up at some point.
I've seen wildly varying reactions to this particular story point. I'll admit that this late in the game, it feels like one more damn thing to add to the pile, and if you don't buy the chemistry between Colin Farrell and Rachel McAdams, then, yeah, I guess this is something that wouldn't work for you.
But the chemistry between Farrell and McAdams is one of the few things I think has worked throughout the season. Their characters are both such gigantic bundles of emotional and psychological constipation that it makes sense the two of them would find a weird solace in each other. The scenes where the two of them danced around the idea of coupling, before finally giving in, were among my favorites of the season.
Ray discovers State's Attorney Davis's dead body in one of the episode's bleaker scenes.
HBO
It might end up being no one! Paul died, as mentioned, as did State's Attorney Davis (possibly as an attempt to frame Ray for her murder). The conspiracy seems damn determined to keep all knowledge of its existence from being revealed. This might seem a bit convoluted when you remember that everybody alive is in on it, but it's certainly created a believably horrific atmosphere for the finale.
All in all, the second season of True Detective is perhaps best summed up by that word: convoluted. There's been good stuff and bad stuff, brilliant stuff and terrible stuff. But the finale, at least, offers the promise of something worth looking forward to other than this whole thing being over.
I'll be by at noon Eastern to answer them. Let's talk about that Halt and Catch Fire finale, huh?
Previous episode

In the middle of "Working for the Clampdown," the seventh episode of AMC's 1980s tech drama Halt and Catch Fire's stellar second season, wunderkind programmer Cameron (Mackenzie Davis) is told she makes too many of her decisions for her fledgling online gaming company, Mutiny, based on her emotions. She's not seeing clearly, nor logically enough, and she's ignoring the greater good of her employees, based on a personal vendetta against ex-boyfriend Joe (Lee Pace), who wants to acquire Mutiny.

What no one in the show seems to acknowledge is that Joe's desire to purchase Mutiny is just as driven by emotion. Sure, he can make an economic argument about the growth of the online sector. Yeah, he can back up some of his points with data. But what's ultimately at the bottom of his desire — what he barely wants to acknowledge to himself — is a desire to be back with Cameron, even if not romantically. And if she won't come to that arrangement willingly, then he'll just have to purchase her company — and her with it.
This is what Halt and Catch Fire understands better than few other shows on TV — and what has made season two so very good. Yes, on a surface level, the show is about the slow rise of women in leadership positions in the workplace. But it's also about how our perceptions often change based on the gender of the person we're dealing with. Every decision anybody makes is driven, on some level, by emotion. But when the person making that decision is a woman in the workplace, on Halt and Catch Fire, as in life, it's all too easy to write off that decision for being "emotional."

Cameron (Mackenzie Davis) has struggled with people writing off her decisions throughout the season as "too emotional." (AMC)
When I interviewed them for an upcoming feature, the show's creators, Christopher Cantwell and Christopher C. Rogers, said that at least some of this was very intentional.
In fact, they found they had often placed Cameron and her friend and co-worker Donna (Kerry Bishé) into situations very similar to ones Joe and his partner (and Donna's husband) Gordon (Scoot McNairy) when they were attempting to build an industry-changing computer in season one. And in so doing, they were interested to see how the other characters — and audience — reacted to two women being at the center of a story like this, instead of two men.
Halt's second season has gotten lots of praise for the way it's placed Cameron and Donna and their often contentious, fiercely loyal partnership in the spotlight. And that's worthwhile in and of itself. So few cable dramas of Halt's quality level have room for the emotional lives and desires of women, but Halt subtly retooled itself to place those two characters — instead of Joe and Gordon, who were season one's focus — at its center.
So few cable dramas of Halt's quality level have room for the emotional lives and desires of women
But the entire season saw both women wrestling with and considering their own emotions — and figuring out how to trust or ignore them — in the course of making decisions.
Cameron started the season wanting Mutiny to be a pseudo-socialist collective, where nobody was anybody's boss, and ended it making broad, sweeping declarations in which she really only took the advice of a couple of trusted colleagues, because she decided to trust her gut, instead of what everybody else was telling her. Similarly, Donna ultimately decided to abort an unborn child she simply couldn't see as a part of her life. It was a decision both emotional (clear from her distress over her pregnancy) and logical (clear from how well-reasoned her arguments for doing so were).
But both Cameron and Donna are written off at various times by the show's men as being too emotional or unreasonable, and Mutiny doesn't really start to take off until they bring in John Bosworth (Toby Huss), a former colleague, as someone else to sit in the room with them in meetings and seem appropriately male. Both are implicit commentaries on how hard it can still be for women to rise in male-dominated industries — like the tech business.
In our interview, Cantwell and Rogers said they'd also hoped to depict how in the mid-'80s, the computing industry slowly began to push women out. Cameron and Donna they described as "unicorns" — unusual figures for their time — but in the reactions the two women receive, the writers make clear the trends that led to the current tech industry's gender disparities.

Lost in a parking garage, Gordon (Scoot McNairy) reaches his nadir. (AMC)
What's even more interesting about Halt and Catch Fire's attitudes toward gender is how it plays the flip side of these moments, too. In season two, both of the show's leading men end up struggling because they can't express their own emotions and get stuck in bad patterns.
Joe has always been someone who seems like a shark, in some ways, coolly gliding beyond the emotional wreckage he leaves behind. But he's terrible at realizing how this wreckage impacts his own emotions, or the state it leaves his soul in. By all rights, Joe should have left Gordon, Cameron, and Donna far behind him after season one, but he keeps getting drawn back to them, intractably. The three are the closest he's ever come to actual human connection that we know of — but he seems incapable of admitting this to himself, which causes him to betray them over and over again.
The show's men treat their emotions as weird mysteries they dare not explore
Gordon is even worse off in season two. Through an escalating series of reveals, the show depicts the way his erratic behavior — which leads to him cheating on his wife and getting lost in a parking garage overnight — at first seems to be driven by drug usage, then by brain damage, and finally by a mental illness he's struggled with his entire life. But he clamps down these thoughts and emotions, not even talking to Donna about them, until they come bursting out at inopportune moments.
Both Joe and Gordon treat their emotions as weird mysteries they dare not explore, but it's not as if this makes their emotions cease to exist. The bad decisions the two make throughout season two aren't because they somehow became irrational or illogical. No, both have very good reasons for doing what they do in almost every instance. Instead, the show argues that by not incorporating their emotions into their decision-making, Joe and Gordon are unable to operate as effectively as Donna and Cameron can.
There's no such thing as "pure reason," Halt and Catch Fire argues. There's simply the level to which you pretend you can hide your emotions from yourself. All four main characters on the show are as equally driven by love and hate and resentment and fear as they are the knowledge and raw talent they possess. But it's the characters who acknowledge the former can be just as useful as the latter in making decisions who go furthest — while everybody else is left trailing in their wake.
Halt and Catch Fire ends its second season on AMC August 2 at 10 pm Eastern. The first season is available on Netflix, while previous episodes of the second season are available on AMC's website and for digital download.
What happens when men are shown what the women they care about go through just by walking through the streets of New York City? Cosmopolitan magazine decided to find out in a new video.
"I'm getting pissed off," Seth, one of the men, said as he watched his girlfriend get catcalled on video. "I'm not happy with this."
Street harassment and catcalling are problems most women are already familiar with. Particularly in major cities, women regularly get unsolicited comments about their looks and experience other forms of harassment just by walking outside.
But since the victims of this harassment are women, it's generally difficult for men to understand just how pervasive the problem is. So when the men in the video were exposed to how their girlfriends are treated, the responses ranged from anger and disgust to surprise and support.
"It sucks," Jon said. "I'm glad that people are making it an issue and not standing for it anymore."
Cosmopolitan isn't the first to put this kind of harassment on video. Last year, Hollaback, an organization that wants to end street harassment and intimidation, produced a video in which a woman walked through New York City for 10 hours. The hidden video camera placed in the backpack of a man walking in front of her recorded more than 100 instances of verbal harassment. After the video went viral, the woman in it received rape threats on YouTube.
Kelsey McKinney wrote for Vox about the several layers of discrimination that the video and response revealed: "Women are forced to feel uncomfortable and scared for walking down the damn street. Then when one woman takes the time to show just how uncomfortable those interactions are, people threaten to physically assault her. If the video reminded us that women are constantly made to feel unsafe when they leave the house, the response is a reminder that women are constantly made to feel unsafe when they simply turn on their computers."
Appropriately enough for a story about a serial killer who targets images of familial bliss, the Red Dragon arc that's closing out Hannibal's third (and final?) season is all about the process of finding the group of people you most belong in — your family, if you will.
But what's fascinating is that the families at the show's center are all ones formed out of horror and pain. There's real love in them, but not a single one fits the traditional "nuclear family" model. The nuclear families are the ones being torn asunder by the Red Dragon. And, somewhat fittingly, the only thing that can stop this horrible killer is a bunch of co-dependent partnerships that, nevertheless, look like they have just as much love as any family with two kids, a dog, and a white picket fence.

Let's take a look at all of these found families — healthy, unhealthy, and in between — and let's see how likely they are to survive the season.
Hannibal and Will continue to exist as ghostly afterimages for each other, even when the two are in the same physical space.
NBC
If "The Great Red Dragon" really did make it feel like Hannibal and Will hadn't seen each other in years, then "...And the Woman Clothed With the Sun" (the name of this ninth episode) very quickly suggested that the two had left little pieces of themselves all over each other. Hannibal can even smell what's different about Will, suggesting he's been spending all those long hours in confinement imagining the scent of his dear friend.
What Red Dragon (the book) suggests that the show has heightened beautifully is that Will is not half as effective a crime solver without Hannibal lurking somewhere inside his head, pulling the strings. Episode director John Dahl spends several scenes framing shots so that reflections of Hannibal and Will seem like eerie ghosts haunting each other. They're literally beginning to blend together all over again, because that's what bringing these two into proximity with each other will do.
Hannibal and Will are supremely unhealthy together. Hannibal and Will are so much healthier when they're together. The only way the Red Dragon will be caught is if they work together — and yet the Red Dragon is already reaching out to Hannibal to betray Will. Danger and heartbreak, always intertwined on this show, lurk all over again.
Chances of relationship's survival: 20 out of a possible 10 points. We know how this show works. Will will never escape Hannibal; Hannibal will never escape Will.
Alana's super-slick black-and-white outfit could indicate she's the only one who knows right from wrong anymore. Or it could just be a really cool costume.
NBC
Honestly, the last thing I would have expected was that Alana and Margot would somehow have a strong, functional marriage — or that they would be raising the child Margot always wanted together. (As a Verger baby, the boy is heir to a considerable fortune.) Alana is still trying to atone for being duped so badly by Hannibal in season two, while Margot has a whole host of issues that surely weren't fixed by her murdering her brother.
And yet this makes sense. On Hannibal, relationships that last are forged in the heart of trauma, and both Alana and Margot have been through a lot of trauma at this point. The two's seduction of each other earlier this season might have started because each wanted something the other had, but it shouldn't be surprising that this turned into an actual bond. And these two have been through so much that it's hard not to feel happy for them.
Chances of relationship's survival: 9/10. Maybe season four can just be about Margot and Alana trying to get their son into the best preschool.
Will imagines himself beside his wife when the two are apart.
NBC
I opined last week that Will's wife, Molly, usually exists in adaptations of Red Dragon to give the hero something to lose. And in Hannibal, this makes dramatic sense — Will needs to have something worth going back to if his leaving the world of solving crimes is going to make any sense. Molly is the touchstone that pulls him back from the brink, again and again.
Molly appears in only one scene tonight, but it's a terrific one. Will calls his wife from his hotel room, simply wanting to hear her voice, and as the two talk, he imagines her in bed beside him, just another normal night at a farm with way too many dogs. (As the two are apart, each has adopted a brand new pup. You're not going to fill those emotional gaps with more animals, you two!) But she's not there, and he has to head out into the darkness completely alone once again.
Hannibal, of course, suggests that the bond between Will and Molly is one of convenience. Will is so worried about passing along his own crippling empathy disorder and/or tendency toward psychopathy that he doesn't want to have a biological child. By marrying a woman who already had a son, Will gets to be a father, without running the risk of unleashing another murderer on the world. But the bond between Will and Molly feels sweet and real and true. This isn't a marriage of convenience. It's a life raft.
Chances of relationship's survival: 8/10. I'm relatively certain these two kids are going to stick it out. I'm less certain successful Broadway actress Nina Arianda would sign on for another (hypothetical) season.
Notice how Hannibal haunts Jack, too. (He might be hard to see but is to Jack's immediate left.) But the images blur much more closely together than Hannibal and Will did. Is Jack that much closer to the darkness?
NBC
Now we're getting into some recognizable family dynamics!
Once you introduce Jack Crawford into the picture, the relationship between Will and Hannibal turns into a weird, passive-aggressive attempt by all three to turn one of the others into a weapon to kill the third leg of the triangle. Jack knows that pairing Will and Hannibal is a dangerous idea, but he can't help himself, even if he might lose his life. Hannibal knows Will is almost certainly going to side with Jack, but he can't give up his friend. And Will can feel the way he's always in danger of utterly falling apart, but he's got no way to really withstand the other two.
All I'm saying is that this sounds remarkably true to life.
Chances of relationship's survival: 7/10. These three will always be bound together. Eventually two of them will kill the other, though.
Freddie Lounds loved nothing more than her camera and disturbing crime scenes, in both senses of the word "disturbing."
NBC
One of the nice things about this little Red Dragon miniseries is how it's reintroducing characters we loved from the first two seasons who didn't have a place in the first seven episodes of this season. Last week, lab geeks Zeller and Price returned, and this week, we become reacquainted with Freddie Lounds, tabloid journalist and all-around provocateur.
Using the pages of her true-crime publication — now a print one, thanks to her successes with the twin incarcerations of Will and later Hannibal — Freddie recommits herself to sniffing out the most dangerous criminals around, then taunting them in the press. It doesn't seem like a smart survival strategy, but Freddie loves her work too much.
Chances of relationship's survival: 4/10. You'd think Freddie would have been scared off after being used in an elaborate fake murder scheme last season. You'd think incorrectly.
Francis stops Reba from touching his face, in a stunningly beautiful shot.
NBC
One of the beautiful things about Red Dragon is how it has ticking clocks within its ticking clocks. As the moon cycles toward full every month, pushing toward the moment when Francis will kill again, he's slowly but surely falling for Reba, a blind photo developer he meets when having his own film processed. Reba, then, gives Francis emotional stakes of his own. If he could just fight off the voices in his head, he might have a chance at happiness. But we have a pretty good idea of where this is going, which heightens the tragedy.
Francis only meets Reba tonight, but the connection between the two is palpable. As played by Rutina Wesley, Reba is kind, warm, and surprisingly insightful about the demons that haunt Francis. She hears the way he tries not to speak once she mentions speech therapy, and she tells him he speaks very well in front of her. And she likes the way he doesn't immediately pivot to sympathy when he meets her.
And yet we know what's coming. There's a stunningly beautiful shot when Francis catches Reba's hand, mere centimeters from his face. She wants to feel it, to know if he's smiling. He can't let her touch him. To touch Francis is to know the real Francis, while to fall in love is to exchange the beautiful gift of touch, at least a little bit. So long as Francis is ruled by his demons, this relationship is doomed.
Chances of relationship's survival: 0/10. I mean ...
Hannibal and Abigail prepare to fake her death. It will end poorly for one of them. Guess which one!
NBC
Since Red Dragon likely doesn't have enough story to quite fill out six full episodes, Hannibal is using that space to fill in some of its backstory gaps. In this episode, that means the return of Kacey Rohl as Abigail Hobbs, who was murdered in the season two finale but keeps turning up to help everybody fill in the holes in their subconscious.
Here, she's part of Hannibal's reminiscences about the time she spent living in secret with him, the time in which he was steadily training her to embrace her own darkest self, in hopes that she and he and Will might run off together to be a little family of death and destruction. That ended, of course, because Will chose Jack instead of Hannibal, Abigail pushed Alana out a window, and Hannibal cut open Abigail just as he promised he would.
In and of itself, this little flashback story doesn't signify much. But when it comes to the larger picture, it signifies everything. Hannibal might seem like someone capable of real emotion. He might seem like someone capable of love, even. But he's not. He's the devil, and when he gets the chance, he will murder you — even if it's just to prove a point to someone else in a pointless feud. To know Hannibal is to be waiting for when his knife slices into your skin.
Chances of relationship's survival: -100/10. Abigail is already dead. That would seem to put a damper on things.
Previous episode
Look, I am not a huge Foo Fighters fan. I don't even really like "Learn to Fly," one of the rock band's signature hits.
But just watch the video above. Look at it. It's one of the finest achievements of human culture maybe ever. I guarantee you, no matter how you feel about this song, or this band, or the nation of Italy, you will come out of this video feeling better about everything.
One thousand people gathered in an Italian field to perform "Learn to Fly." The drummers play in perfect synchronization. The guitarists rock out in 4/4 time. The singers hop around and smile in the gleaming sun. It's like the "I'd Like to Buy the World a Coke" ad if what was being sold was the incredibly specific desire to have the Foo Fighters come play a concert in Cesena, Italy.
The drummers are in perfect synchronization.
YouTube
Coordinate those guitar movements, folks.
YouTube
Yes, the goal of the above performance was literally just to get the Foos to come and play the kind of small town (just under 100,000 people) that the band would normally skip on a tour like this. But as a sales pitch, it's pretty damn great. Cesena seems like the best place to hang out ever, thanks to this performance.
And it worked! The Foo Fighters' Dave Grohl has promised to swing by — in Italian, no less.

<!--
(function(d, s, id) {  var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];  if (d.getElementById(id)) return;  js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;  js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.3";  fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));
// -->
Ci vediamo a presto, Cesena.... xxx Davide

So now you know all you need to know about how to get your favorite band to visit your town: Get 1,000 people together and rehearse your favorite song enough times to perform it perfectly. No pressure.
Yaaaaayyyyyy!
YouTube
On Wednesday, Zayn Malik — onetime member of the British boy band One Direction — announced via Twitter that he had signed a new solo recording contract with RCA. A day later, the remaining four members of One Direction dropped a surprise new single called "Drag Me Down." Both moves made headlines and ripples across social media. In case you don't know any 11-year-olds and are unfamiliar with pop music, here's why this is such a big deal.
Zayn Malik was one of the five singers in the boy band One Direction, a group that doesn't play instruments on stage.
Malik is often referred to as "the hot one" by the youngsters who adore the band, and he is probably the second most recognizable member of the band after Taylor Swift's ex-boyfriend Harry Styles.

Zayn Malik has now left the band. (Jeff Kravitz/Getty)
But on March 25, after five years with the band, Malik announced his departure. "I am leaving because I want to be a normal 22-year-old who is able to relax and have some private time out of the spotlight," he commented in a Facebook statement.
Rumors circulated that part of the reason Zayn chose to leave the group was because of love trouble:
I'm 22 years old... I love a girl named Perrie Edwards. And there's a lot of jealous fucks in this world I'm sorry for what it looks like x

He certainly wouldn't have been the first member of a world-famous musical group to leave because of stress or frustration. Geri Halliwell, a.k.a. Ginger Spice, was the first to depart the Spice Girls, citing depression. Jonathan Knight left New Kids on the Block when trying to deal with extreme panic attacks. A.J. McLean took stints off from the Backstreet Boys to make visits to rehab to deal with drug and alcohol addiction.
But Malik's announcement that he had signed a new record deal suggests his reasons for leaving the group went beyond stress. His tweet, which said he wanted "the opportunity to show you who i really am!" is hashtagged #realmusic, which some interpreted as him throwing shade at the remaining One Direction members.
I guess I never explained why I left , it was for this moment to be given the opportunity to show you who i really am! #realmusic #RCA !!

Others have theorized that 1D's surprise single release so soon after Malik's announcement was intended to "steal their former bandmate's thunder." The band members themselves admitted to The Late, Late Show's James Corden in May that "we were a little bit angry, obviously" about Malik's departure from the group. But that's nothing compared to the widespread devastation of One Direction's fans when Malik announced his exit.
One Direction is a British boy band originally made up of five members: Harry Styles, Liam Payne, Louis Tomlinson, Niall Horan, and Zayn Malik.  You might know them for the song "Steal Your Girl."

The group appeared on the popular talent show X Factor in 2010, after which they were signed to Simon Cowell's (yes, the former American Idol judge) talent label, Syco.
Since then, One Direction have put out four full-length albums. The group has also created two music movies, performed at dozens of award shows, and lived through four worldwide tours. For four years, One Direction have ridden a wave of fame fueled by an intense fandom consisting primarily of teenage girls.
For the most part, One Direction's success was subject only to minor blips of conflict (both of them coming from the mouth of Liam Payne). The've recorded more complete albums than NSYNC produced, and their touring streak has been more rigorous than the Backstreet Boys' was at the height of their fame in the late 1990s.
The members have been incredibly busy and under enormous pressure. It's not surprising that for at least one of them, the lifestyle became overwhelming.

One Direction performs as a whole band. Are you crying? I am. (Kevin Kane)
Hugely. Every one of One Direction's first four studio albums debuted at number one on the Billboard charts — making them the first group in history to do so. Their debut single, "What Makes You Beautiful," was the most preordered song that major label Sony Music has ever produced. In 2013, they nudged out Eminem and Justin Timberlake to be named by IFPI as the "most popular artist in the world."
The YouTube video for "Story of My Life" has more than 340 million views. That's 70 million more than Beyoncé's "Drunk in Love."

Fans of One Direction aren't just rabid — they are in love with the band's members. And these fans turn out in absolute droves. They broke box office records for the band's movie One Direction: This Is Us. Their attendance at the Where We Are tour in 2014 grossed $290 million dollars, meaning 3.4 million people left their houses to see the band perform.
The response to Malik's departure, then, was intense, as one would expect. The comments on the Facebook announcement ranged from the mildly sad ("if the world is against you I will be against the world. Zayn malik") to the fully depressed ("IM CRYING SO HARD I CANT BREATH").
On Twitter, fans announced their mourning with not one, but four trending topics:

In case there were any doubt that teenage girls run the internet: pic.twitter.com/aRT7XVaZVB



IM DEAD INSIDE #AlwaysInOurHeartsZaynMalik pic.twitter.com/r7rtCszGlF



The person who started this #ReplaceZayn has no heart or soul, They are going trough a hard time right now.#ArianatorsAreHereForDirectioners



zayn cried while he was singing little things for the last time  I am crying????  #AlwaysInOurHeartsZaynMalik https://t.co/UuTCUrKdHo


At this point, it's unclear what Zayn's departure means for the boy band in the long term. The remaining four members released a single unified statement on Zayn's departure:
"We're really sad to see Zayn go, but we totally respect his decision and send him all our love for the future. The past five years have been beyond amazing, we've gone through so much together, so we will always be friends. The four of us will now continue. We're looking forward to recording the new album and seeing all the fans on the next stage of the world tour."
The band have continued with their current world tour, which is planned to last through October.
Malik's departure could change the agreement the band has with their record label and force renegotiations or, worse — an early breakup
But the question of what will happen to the group without Zayn lingers. Boy bands have a history of wild success followed by wild instability. Few boy bands manage to have long and healthy careers. The Backstreet Boys' album production and touring diminished drastically after McLean's drug addiction. NSYNC fell apart after the Celebrity tour despite having planned to release another album. New Kids on the Block broke up after allegations of lip-syncing tore apart the band. Boy bands are fragile, and losing Zayn is a reminder that One Direction could fall into disarray at any moment.
The group, though, is still expected to release an album this year. In all likelihood, they are contractually obligated to record and release that album, and it seems like they're on track to do so given their just-released single and a photo from the studio Niall Horan posted on July 29 suggesting their fifth album is nearly finished:
Final touches .........
A photo posted by Niall horan (@niallhoran) on Jul 27, 2015 at 8:18pm PDT

But Malik's departure could change the agreement the band has with its record label and force renegotiations or, worse — an early breakup. If the original contract with Sony Music (their US distributor) or Syco required all five original members to remain, the terms may change — and unless the rest of the band are blissfully happy, which seems unlikely, renegotiating a contract could mean fewer future albums are required of them.
For now, though, fans at least have both a new 1D album and (presumably) a new Zayn Malik solo album to look forward to — even if the original One Direction seems to be done for good.

The band, which used to be so unified and snuggly, is now headed in two directions. (Karwai Tang/Getty)
Late in Mission: Impossible — Rogue Nation, one character tries to warn another that Ethan Hunt, the franchise's hero, played, as always, by Tom Cruise, is coming for them, and there's nothing they can do about it. Ethan, he says, is the living embodiment of destiny, as much as a human being can be, and he will always, always accomplish his goal.

Rating
It's a terrific gag — made all the more so when Ethan inevitably arrives a few seconds later — both because it plays off the series' core storytelling device and because it, in some ways, seems to describe the star himself. Cruise can be beset by PR nightmares or horrible rumors, but he never seems to lose his box office step or his onscreen persona as the hypercompetent, all-but-perfect ultraman.
Cruise rose to fame in the '80s at the tail end of the Cold War, and his persona almost seems to be American hegemony personified — there is nothing he cannot do if he puts his will to it, and a thing is good because he does it. His motivations change on a dime, and the tasks he sets himself to might seem trivial or small. But he will accomplish them, and if he's coming for you, he'll arrive, tornado-like, to throw you out a window.
Rogue Nation is terrific fun, the best action movie of the summer without Mad Max in the title. It's also, arguably, the best Mission: Impossible movie, impressive for the fifth installment in any movie series. But it also might be the Tom Cruisiest Tom Cruise movie ever made.
Here are all of the ways Rogue Nation uses Cruise almost perfectly.

There's a sequence in this movie in which Ethan holds his breath for more than three minutes so he can access a computer server that's stored underwater. Why is it stored underwater? There's a plot reason — it has to stay below a certain temperature — but the real reason is that it would be really cool if Tom Cruise held his breath for that long.
And, of course, part of the movie's publicity wave has been the claim that Cruise held his breath for six minutes to shoot the sequence. (I have my doubts, considering that the sequence isn't presented all in one shot, and learning to hold one's breath that long for a movie seems extreme even for Cruise. But hey, whatever works for publicity purposes.) But whether it happened doesn't matter. It's all about the mythology. For this franchise and this actor's career, it's not good enough to simply pull something off. No, you have to be the best.
And Ethan is the best. Always. He clings to the side of airplanes as they take off. He can instantly ascertain the true alliance of everybody he meets by gazing into their eyes. He draws perfect sketches of people from memory. He battles multiple bad guys at once, occasionally while tied to a pole. He looks dashing in a tuxedo.
Ethan Hunt (and again, by extension, Cruise) is better than you. He's better than all of us. He just is.
The "plot" of Rogue Nation, such as it is, involves the Syndicate, the evil, shadow version of the Impossible Missions Force that Ethan works for. The film's script, written by its director, Christopher McQuarrie, from a story by McQuarrie and Drew Pearce, is remarkably canny about this, too. The IMF operates with very limited government oversight. The only thing that keeps it on the side of the angels is the fact that its operatives believe in truth, justice, and the shadow government way.
Ethan is such an inherently good person that he essentially makes an act good by performing it
But Ethan really is that good of a person, in the Mission: Impossible mythos. Rogue Nation's story is its weakest element — it's mostly an excuse to string along a bunch of elaborate action sequences — but when it makes an abrupt third-act pivot into Ethan having to save a co-worker's life, it somehow works.
This rescue mission has basically nothing to do with what comes before, but the film has sold the group dynamic between Ethan and his colleagues so effectively that you buy he would do anything to save them. Similarly, it has effectively suggested that Ethan is such an inherently good person that he essentially makes an act good by performing it.
Rebecca Ferguson is the perfect foil for Cruise in this film.
Paramount
Something about Cruise is that he has a tendency to bring out the best in the women he works with. Rogue Nation doesn't have the level of interesting material for its women that, say, Mad Max: Fury Road did, but it does have a tremendous turn from Rebecca Ferguson, as Ilsa Faust, a British double agent working within the Syndicate to feed Ethan breadcrumbs of information. Or is she a double agent? Is she actually leading Ethan to his doom?
It's to Ferguson's credit that she makes both interpretations completely plausible — even as you're pretty sure where she'll land, because you know what kind of movie this is and because Ethan, essential morality detector that he is, inherently trusts her throughout.
What's even more refreshing is that Rogue Nation doesn't dare suggest Ethan and Ilsa should end up together. Instead of pursuing any romantic interest, the film mostly suggests they make for terrific colleagues. They're like the Don Draper and Peggy Olsen of kicking people in the face.
Part of this is because Ethan is one of Cruise's more sexless roles. But just as much of it is because the film seems to understand that Ilsa — on the run from multiple governments and just trying to keep her head above water — has so much more to worry about than whether she sleeps with some dude.
It seems like every year, there's a new Tom Cruise movie where much of the criticism mentions, offhand, how unexpectedly funny the film is. Last year, that movie was the terrific sci-fi romp Edge of Tomorrow. This year it's Rogue Nation, which has never met a fight sequence it couldn't improve by playing off of Cruise's inherent size differential against some huge bruiser.
It's as if Ethan knows he'll be getting out of this jam, and we'll all laugh about it someday
The gags in this movie are almost always at Cruise's expense, but he plays them with a wink, to let you know he's in on the joke. No matter how many bad guys are facing off with him, and no matter how screwed he seems to be, it's as if Ethan knows he'll be getting out of this jam, and we'll all laugh about it someday.
In particular, the film's highlight is that underwater heist, which leads directly into an all-out car chase. "Weren't you just dead?!" asks Benjy (Simon Pegg), Ethan's closest pal. And yeah, he was, and he's definitely woozy. But dammit, he's got to catch the bad guys, and if that means overcoming death itself, then so be it. In some movies, this would be played completely straight. Cruise, Pegg, and McQuarrie play it all tongue in cheek, and it works perfectly.
Things blow up very nicely in this film. That's always a plus.
Paramount
The hidden secret of Cruise's success is that once he attained mega-stardom, he worked almost exclusively with the best directors around, and he had a terrific nose for scripts that would make great movies. Even when he's making blockbusters, Cruise is always taking chances, pushing into new territory.
Heck, Rogue Nation — the fifth film in a franchise, I'll remind you — features as its big third-act confrontation a suspenseful scene where three people sit around a table, instead of some blockbuster explosion. Cruise movies are almost always taking weird turns at the script level, and even if they end up in the place you expect them to, the detours they take along the way make them all the more interesting to watch.
Mission: Impossible is that rare thing in Hollywood — a franchise in which every single movie feels subtly different because of the director behind it. It's impossible to confuse, say, Mission: Impossible 2, with its over-the-top gun play and other affectations of director John Woo, with the much leaner and meaner Rogue Nation, where McQuarrie gives over a major second-act set piece to a beautifully staged and shot night at the opera. (Pay attention in this sequence to how clearly McQuarrie lays out exactly where all of the major characters are in the opera house. Few modern action directors have this clarity of location and position.)
McQuarrie — perhaps still best known for writing The Usual Suspects — is great at keeping dramatic stakes small and personal, so things matter more when the bullets start flying. That might seem like a weird fit in a Mission: Impossible movie, but it works here, because the star is willing to contort himself however necessary to fit the film, not the other way around.
In the end, that might be the Tom Cruisiest thing of all. Rogue Nation succeeds because Cruise knows when to keep the ball and when to pass it away. If nothing else, he's a great star because he's a great collaborator.
Mission: Impossible — Rogue Nation is playing in theaters nationwide.
The biggest change when Trevor Noah takes over hosting duties on The Daily Show from the retiring Jon Stewart in September will be, obviously, the face behind the desk.
In many ways, it's a generational shift, as well — but not simply because Stewart is 21 years Noah's senior. No, as Noah pointed out at a Wednesday session for The Daily Show at the 2015 Television Critics Association summer press tour, the way people consume the news is changing, and the old paradigm of Stewart's Daily Show holds less sway.
Noah said:
The Daily Show was based on an emerging 24-hour news cycle ... Now you look at news, and it’s changing. It’s no longer predicated around 24-hour news. There are so many different sources. Half of it is online now. Now, you’ve got the Gawkers and the BuzzFeeds, and the way people are absorbing their news in sound bites and headlines and little click links has changed everything.
So the biggest challenge — and it’s going to be an exciting one on the show — is how do we bring all of that together, looking at it from through a bigger lens as opposed to just going after one source, which was historically Fox News.
Put in terms of the internet, then, Stewart's Daily Show was the Onion, tearing apart traditional media. And Noah would like to sell his version of the show as ClickHole, taking aim at the way the online news cycle moves even faster than cable news did.
That's easier to say than do — it's often hard to turn what's interesting about the internet into compelling television — but Noah, whose comedy often focuses less on specific political issues than it does on broader issues of race, identity, and prejudice, could well be up to the task.
The Stewart Daily Show was focused on the day's political news and gaffes, but that's a currency that is shared less and less online. Noah seems more interested in the idea of the online outrage machine and the targets it chooses (which have included him). If he can translate that idea to TV, then the show could successfully reinvent itself for a new era.
It's also worth noting Stewart did exactly this when he took over the show from Craig Kilborn, phasing out many favorite Kilborn bits and changing the show from a parody of small-town news into one of 24-hour media culture. The show's longtime fans, however, might miss the Fox News bashing, so don't be surprised if Noah offers up a little of it. Just not as much as Stewart might have.
As part of my preparation for Netflix's day at the 2015 Television Critics Association summer press tour, I watched the first episode of the streaming service's new true-crime saga Narcos, which launches August 28. I pretty much hated it.
It was an endless barrage of exposition about the rise of Pablo Escobar, delivered mostly in voiceover, the very epitome of why "show, don't tell" is one of the first rules every writer learns in Hollywood. It reminded me, in many ways, of the second-season premiere of True Detective, which similarly overloaded on backstory.

Don't consider that a Narcos review, though. Because here's the thing: If the other nine episodes of Narcos are brilliant and build off the first episode's infodump in interesting ways, the problems of that first hour won't matter.
The inertia that sets in when you hit the end of an episode and Netflix autoplay kicks in is just too great much of the time. If you watch one episode of Narcos, it will take more work to avoid watching additional episodes than it will to just watch the whole season. Netflix counts on this with all of its shows.
So here's what I'm wondering: Has Netflix accidentally invented a new art form?

Halt and Catch Fire is a very different show in its second season. Or is it? (AMC)
This idea was first broached to me in a conversation with my friend the Salon writer and former media scholar Scott Eric Kaufman. Scott had watched the first season of my beloved Halt and Catch Fire by bingeing it on Netflix, where I had watched it week to week on AMC in 2014. And our experiences of watching the show two different ways were telling in how TV viewing is diverging.
Watching Halt week to week in its first season was an exercise in frustration, in wondering if anybody making the show was aware of how derivative what they were doing was compared with what came before. By the time you reached the first season's end, it was clear that being derivative was a conscious choice. The show had done so to undercut what seemed to be copycat behavior at the end, the better to highlight the story it was really telling.
The show's genius salesman, Joe — the Don Draper, if you will — turned out to be all empty packaging in a way Draper never did. The real story was with the people around him, and especially the women making their way in the 1980s computer industry. In season two, the show's feet under it, it's easier to appreciate these qualities, and it's even easier to appreciate Joe as a character.
Binge-watching fundamentally changes the basic unit of cinematic storytelling
But I'm also a little jealous of those like Scott who watched on a binge, because the way the show was building up the big character reversals was much more obvious in that form.
You can even see this divide in the comments sections discussing the show around the internet — particularly at the A.V. Club. Those who watched the first season week to week often have much less patience for Joe and his shenanigans. Those who binged are willing to see where his schemes are headed because they seem to have built more trust for the show.
Scott's suggestion to me is that binge-watching fundamentally changes the basic unit of cinematic storytelling from the episode (30 to 60 minutes) or film (90 to 180 minutes) to the season, which can run well into the hundreds of minutes. And storytellers aren't just adjusting to this; they're increasingly catering to it, telling longer and longer stories.
Now think back to Halt and Catch Fire: Whose experience with the first-season storytelling was "right"? Mine or Scott's? Both? Neither?
Netflix
Netflix
Sense8 is a Netflix show that has experimented with longer episode lengths. (Netflix)
Netflix, for various business reasons (mostly involving foreign sales and the fact that it doesn't own any of its hit shows), continues to be bound by the episodic restrictions that TV has lived under since its earliest days. Nearly every single one of its episodes is roughly a half-hour or roughly an hour long (though it has experimented with longer episode lengths on Orange Is the New Black and Sense8).
"The first season of Bloodline is the pilot"
But Netflix fundamentally doesn't think about TV in terms of those episodes. It thinks about them in terms of seasons, and it encourages its creators to do so as well. I caught up with Ted Sarandos, the company's chief content officer, to ask him about this very thing, and he said the company increasingly thinks of its series not in terms of episodes but in terms of shows. He pointed to the slow-boiled Southern gothic family drama Bloodline — which drew criticism for being so slow when it launched — as being particularly exemplary of this approach.
"The first season of Bloodline is the pilot. It's not like the first episode of Bloodline is the pilot," he told me.
Sarandos allowed that this is more the case with heavily serialized dramas than with comedies. The first season of Netflix sitcom Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt is more episodic than Bloodline or House of Cards, for instance, but Sarandos maintained that the only way to get the full Bloodline experience is to watch the whole thing and follow its various characters' arcs through the entire season.
In this view of things, then, episodes are useful to Netflix as chapter stops — as ways for audiences to reach natural endpoints when they have to eat or sleep, as all humans must — but they're increasingly only that. They're not standalone units. They're pieces of a whole.

BoJack Horseman is one of Netflix's most episodically inclined shows. (Netflix)
This is, of course, not revolutionary as a way to think about Netflix's programming. But what's different now is the way it's increasingly filtering out to how viewers think about all programming.
Think, for instance, of all of the True Detective fans arguing critics shouldn't judge the show based on only its first three episodes (or almost half its season) and shouldn't write anything until the full season was available. That's a massive shift from how most casual viewers regarded television even a year ago.
The answer, to me, is that I review things as they're first presented to me. If it's on an episodic basis, that's how I consider them. But if it's on a seasonal basis, I shift my thinking in that way (and, as such, when I finally review Narcos, it will be for that full 10-episode season). Yet the rise of binge-watching has created as many different methods of intake as there are people watching these shows. You already know the days of watching week to week are over. But what you might not have thought much about is how this fundamentally changes your relationship to the art itself.
Netflix is learning about all of this as surely as everybody else is
The problem, however, is that this requires an essential paradigm shift in how those who make television think about how they make television. By and large, the way the television industry is structured is based around the episode. Fees are usually paid to actors or writers or directors on a per-episode basis, and that seems unlikely to change, due to how studios deal with the industry's trade unions.
So it's natural to think about where each episode is going to fit in the overall story of the season — or even how each episode can stand on its own. And perhaps because of this, Netflix's shows have a tendency to have lumpy stories that lurch around and have bland midsections, before closing with a bang. (Perhaps not coincidentally, Netflix's best shows — BoJack Horseman and Orange — break down brilliantly as a series of episodes, instead of as big seasons.) I love episodic TV, and I think the demotion of episodes to mere chapters could end up being a net negative for the format. There's nothing better than a great episode, and I'll miss that if it goes away.
But all of this also suggests that Netflix is learning about all of this as surely as everybody else is. Telling a 10- or 12-hour story that will hopefully lead to a 10- or 12-hour sequel story a year later isn't really a natural format for storytellers, and like all storytelling shifts, it will require a fair amount of trial and error. But it's time, I think, for people like me who write about television to get to where the audience already is and start treating these shows as they're intended to be seen — as full seasons, not individual pieces.
A lot of the time, when you talk to fans of this troubled season of True Detective and ask them what, precisely, they still see in the show, you'll eventually get down to something like this: Stories about what it means to be a man in American culture aren't exactly infrequent, but they've always been popular for good reason. (Here's a version of that argument, in internet comment form.) Men are forever defining themselves against some weird, hidden code of masculinity that supposedly their grandfathers had access to but they can't seem to crack.
But True Detective is a lousy example of that, especially this season. The show can't make its mind up as to whether toxic masculinity is imprisoning its characters (like closeted gay veteran Paul Woodrugh) or providing their only escape from a culture with less and less room for them (as when, say, criminal Frank re-embraces his darkest self and pummels underlings into submission or worse). The show's attitude toward this topic, like everything else in season two, is confused.

So let me suggest something else: Literally everything fans say they want from True Detective is being done much better by a ridiculously titled show on the USA Network about a computer hacker: Mr. Robot. The show, which airs new episodes on Wednesdays and is available on Hulu, is one of the best in years about what it means to be a man in modern America.
USA
Christian Slater plays the titular Mr. Robot. Rami Malek (left) is the main character, though. (USA)
Mr. Robot's closest antecedent is David Fincher's film version of Chuck Palahniuk's novel Fight Club. Both stories are about a young man who feels ensnared by a superficial, glib society that refuses to engage with the forces behind the scenes manipulating everything that happens. In both works, that young man is joined by an older compatriot who encourages him to fight back against the system. And in both works, that older man just might be a figment of his imagination. (In Mr. Robot, he's the titular character, played by Christian Slater.)
Fight Club is an often brilliant, deeply flawed, enormously influential film. Its depiction of men who are choked out by IKEA catalogs and a world that holds them back from engaging their most violent impulses has proved to be one of the most enduring in modern filmmaking. Tellingly, many of the film's fans missed its bleak satire, choosing instead to read the film's climax (in which the hero blows up the credit industry) as a kind of wish fulfillment.
What's made Mr. Robot such an interesting riff on this idea is that Elliot, the hacker hero brilliantly played by Rami Malek, is tempted both by the world of anarchy that, presumably, he would rule with his coolly intellectual and rigorous approach to problem solving and the world of creature comforts represented by Starbucks vanilla lattes and beautiful apartments.
The hacker hero is tempted both by the world of anarchy and the world of creature comforts
He can't have both. To give in to the former (by tearing apart Evil Corp, the corporation his cybersecurity firm, Allsafe, contracts for) would destroy the lives of many he cares about. To give in to the latter would mean always knowing that a massive, invisible web is manipulating him and everyone he knows to desire certain things.
See, the center of Mr. Robot is all about the ways the information age has allowed corporations and government entities to know seemingly everything about us and use that information to constantly feed us a stream of new things to want and shallow needs to fulfill. You can't realize how trapped you are if you're always chasing some new, minor bauble.
We have a tendency to define the masculine ideal (at least in storytelling terms) as standing up and doing whatever it takes to achieve some material goal, whether it's winning more land or saving the girl or collecting a big payday. What Mr. Robot suggests is that a world so ruled by a gigantic, unseen web fundamentally can't allow these sorts of victories to exist. Thus, we sub in Starbucks as a kind of mild palliative on an unhealed wound. Elliot sees finding these barely hidden wounds as finding the "malware" in the people around him, using it to find a way to force them to do his bidding. It's sociopathic, maybe, but he also seems to think it's more honest.
And yet to tear everything down would be to rip apart the few actual connections he has.

Tyrell (Martin Wallström) offers up a sharp counterpoint to Elliot. (USA)
Elliot's struggles are thrown into even sharper relief by the character of Tyrell (Martin Wallström), an Evil Corp employee. Everything we learn about Tyrell suggests he's offering up a kind of performative masculinity, a version of being a man that he can carefully schedule on a clock (to the degree that he pays homeless people so he can beat them up when he's got a few minutes to kill).
If Elliot seems stuck by his indecision, then Tyrell has fully committed to trying to find a way to serve both masters. He pushes and pushes for what he wants, and he even goes to a club to seduce a male co-worker, either because he's a closeted bisexual or because he's using the man toward some workplace end — or (most likely) both.
The game is rigged against you, but you still have to play
But Tyrell knows as surely as Elliot does that everything around them is controlled by the data they leave trailing in their wake, that they are collections of information just waiting to be exploited by some corporate overlord or another. Still, Tyrell is ostensibly better at hiding in plain sight than the obviously spooked Elliot. He has the big apartment. He has the impressive job. He has the beautiful wife. He has all the creature comforts, but he still takes those appointments to beat up the homeless. Those "fights" are in keeping with the show's buzzy, paranoid, melancholy tone — the game is rigged against you, but you still have to play.
We spend very little time with Tyrell, but what little time we do spend suggests he's like Elliot in almost every way, just better at denying both his fears and his desires. The more that he peels back the layers, the more darkness he finds, where Elliot increasingly seems tortured by a pesky conscience he can't quite hear.
Like the men of True Detective, both Elliot and Tyrell are struggling to find room for themselves in the modern landscape. Unlike those men, though, the show they inhabit is so much more clear-eyed about the strengths and weaknesses of their respective approaches.

Angela (Portia Doubleday) is a surprisingly vibrant character on Mr. Robot. (USA)
When it comes down to it, what ultimately sets Mr. Robot apart is the way that it pays attention to the characters in its world who aren't your typical cable drama heroes. Creator Sam Esmail has a keen eye for those on the edges of his show's universe.
Most of Mr. Robot's hacker crew, for instance, is made up of members of racial minorities and other societal subsets who have real reason to want to tear down the system and start anew, while Elliot's boss at Allsafe is a gay man who offers up a lovely example of what uncomplicated domesticity might look like for our hero.
In particular, however, the show's women are all interesting figures in their own right. Elliot might be infatuated with a couple of them, but they're not presented as prizes to be won but, instead, as people trying to navigate a system horribly rigged against them. Fellow hacker Darlene (Carly Chaikin) wouldn't mind seeing the world burn, while Elliot's eventual girlfriend, Shayla (Frankie Shaw), seems similarly frustrated by there being no real middle road between chaos and order.
She's either a paragon of virtue or a fool. The show doesn't dare lean one way or another.
But it's Elliot's childhood friend, Angela (Portia Doubleday), who offers the series' most intriguing portrait of femininity trapped in this unbearable system. She, like, Elliot is a computer genius, but she's continually underestimated both at work and in her personal relationships. She's had her life torn apart so many times, as early as her childhood, when her mother died from cancer caused by chemical contamination.
Yet she keeps pushing for something better within the system, keeps believing that doing her best and working for something more will ultimately result in a slightly more hospitable world, despite all the evidence to the contrary. She's either a paragon of virtue or a fool, and the show doesn't dare lean one way or the other.
If Angela existed on True Detective, she would be so far off to the side of the show's darkly masculine, woozily cynical worldview that she'd barely be a blip. But on Mr. Robot she's not only allowed to exist. She's allowed to stand for something. What ultimately makes Mr. Robot such a good show about being a man is that it understands that men don't live in a vacuum, no matter how much other shows might like to pretend otherwise.
Mr. Robot airs Wednesdays at 10 pm Eastern on USA. Previous episodes are available on Hulu.
You've probably heard of Burning Man and Bonnaroo. But you might not be familiar with RAGBRAI: the world's largest and oldest bike tour, improbably located in Iowa, that arguably serves as the quintessential summer festival of the Midwest.
Instead of covering themselves in body paint, RAGBRAI riders don spandex jerseys with pun-inspired team names. Instead of dropping acid and making art, they throw hay bales, listen to Journey, and drink cans of Bud Light given away by friendly locals. RAGBRAI is an idiosyncratic mix of extreme exercise, alcohol-fueled revelry, and Midwestern kitsch: By day three, you're used to seeing middle-aged moms take shots of Fireball at 10 am, just after riding 30 miles and before buying ham balls to support a church fundraiser.
A photo posted by Shaun Marion (@shaundmarion) on Jul 25, 2015 at 6:34pm PDT

Last week, I joined more than 15,000 bicyclists for this year's 462.2-mile ride across Iowa, officially called the Register's Annual Great Bicycle Ride Across Iowa. We weren't pedaling across endless cornfields in 90-degree heat to race, or to raise money for charity, but solely for the fun of it — and for the opportunity to make frequent stops in small towns for pork chops, pie, and cold beer.
Despite all the incongruities you see during RAGBRAI, though, the strangest aspect of the ride might be its hidden history. This outsize Iowan tradition was essentially started by accident by a pair of newspaper reporters 42 years ago.
A photo posted by Andy Beavers (@abeavers1982) on Jul 26, 2015 at 10:13pm PDT

The first ride occurred when a copy editor at the Des Moines Register, John Karras, challenged columnist Donald Kaul to ride his bike across the state and write about it. Kaul insisted that Karras come along, and they invited readers to join. Or at least that's RAGBRAI's official story.
In reality, their motivation was a bit sneakier. As Smithsonian magazine's Megan Gambino wrote in 2009, they wanted to go on a bike trip and get the paper to cover their expenses. Editors accepted the idea, but told them to invite readers. "I wrote a little story, about six inches maybe," Karras told Gambino. "Donald Kaul and I had this incredibly stupid idea to ride across the state and anybody who wanted to come with us was welcome to do that."

John Karras signs autographs during an early RAGBRAI. (RAGBRAI)
They expected a handful of teenagers at most. But about 300 riders turned up on the morning of August 26, ready to ride. As they made their way across the state, bemused farmers and town residents offered them food and water. The reporters stayed in motel rooms, typing up stories and dictating them over the phone, while the others mostly camped on motel lawns.
By the end, 114 people had made it across the state, and the columns Kaul and Karras had filed fascinated many more. These pieces profiled eccentric riders such as Clarence Pickard — an 83-year-old who hadn't biked since childhood and wore long underwear and a pith helmet in the heat. Afterward, the writers got letters asking them to organize another ride the next summer, which led to SAGBRAI: the Second Annual Great Bicycle Ride Across Iowa.
A photo posted by Chad Davis (@chaddavis85) on Jul 26, 2015 at 9:05pm PDT

SAGBRAI was much larger and more well-organized than the previous year. The Register provided trucks to carry riders' luggage during the day, as well as a van to pick them up if they were unable to finish. The ride began with 3,000 people, and 1,700 finished.
These numbers convinced Register staff to establish the ride as an annual event — and stick the paper's name in its title. Over the next few years, planners began establishing the traditions that define the ride today: varying the route from year to year, having riders dip their tires in the Missouri River at the start and the Mississippi River at the end, and including an optional 100-mile day somewhere in the middle.
And the ride swelled dramatically, with tens of thousands of riders crossing the state annually by the '80s. One key reason was economics.
Having this many bikers flood a small town might sound like a traffic-snarling mess. But early on, Iowa's increasingly depopulated rural towns realized that being a RAGBRAI stop — or, better yet, hosting riders overnight — was a rare chance to make money from out-of-town cyclists with large appetites. As the ride grew, cities and towns began vying for the chance to serve as a host, competing to provide the best campgrounds, entertainment, and hospitality.

(Channone Arif)
Nowadays, the route is packed with vendors selling food, beer, and supplies, both in towns and in the cornfields between. Churches, schools, and fire departments across the state sell pie for fundraisers. Host communities prepare for weeks, and most residents take the day off to work booths in matching T-shirts bearing mottos of local pride.
Over and over, restaurant and shop employees I met told me that the day we passed through was their busiest day ever — approached only by the previous time RAGBRAI came through five years ago. In 2008, it was calculated that RAGBRAI brought $25 million to the state, a number that's likely grown in the years since.

(John Simonson)
About two-thirds of RAGBRAI participants are repeat riders, and the enthusiasm of communities along the way is one of the big factors that draw them back to Iowa. While plenty of people do unorganized bike tours on their own or participate in similar rides that have popped up in many other states, RAGBRAI is the oldest and has snowballed into the largest by far.
Ride officials cap the number of week-long riders at 10,000, but thousands more ride for a day or two or do the whole thing without registering. On some days of last week's ride, police counted as many as 19,000 cyclists. All this means there are plenty of shuttles that will bring you and your bike to Iowa from major cities, and that it's never hard to find food or water. If you want to do a bike tour, RAGBRAI has become one of the easiest ways to do it.
A photo posted by Riding For Air (Jordan) (@bichaeljordan) on Jul 27, 2015 at 10:28am PDT

But even more importantly — and despite its huge size — RAGBRAI has retained the same flavor of informality and eccentricity that defined the early rides. It's not free, but compared to, say, concert festivals or marathons, it's relatively inexpensive: $160 buys you a week of camping, daily transportation for your luggage, and support vehicles. It also has a decidedly less corporate feel than many other events, as most vendors are local businesses.
And while it's a fairly intense athletic endeavor — you're biking at least 60 or so miles a day for a week straight, after all — it never quite feels that way. Unlike a triathlon, there are no times or medals. Instead, towns host hay-bale-throwing contests, and people with houses along the route offer up their pools for hundreds of sweaty cyclists, while giving away lemonade or beer.

Team Road Kill's bus. (Road Kill)
Some teams of riders go back decades. They live apart during the year, then get together every summer to ride specially outfitted, garishly painted buses to Iowa and reminisce about the "Soggy Monday" of 1981 or the "Saggy Thursday" of 1995.
I'm not an old-timer, but this year was my second RAGBRAI: I first did it in 2013. And during this return, a friend and fellow rider came up with a good analogy that captures the surprising allure of riding across Iowa with thousands of other people. RAGBRAI is a bubble in which you're allowed to talk to strangers, dress like an idiot, and spend all day outside instead of sitting behind a desk. In essence, it's summer camp for adults who like to bike.
Comedian Jimmy Kimmel on his show Tuesday night was clearly broken up about the death of Cecil the lion, who was shot and killed by American dentist Walter James Palmer.
Kimmel's monologue was at times scathing:
Let's say we accept at face value that he thought it was legal and properly handled and didn't know the lion had a tracking collar and was a local favorite.
The big question is: Why are you shooting a lion in the first place? I mean, I'm honestly curious to know why a human being would feel compelled to do that. How is that fun? Is it that difficult for you to get an erection that you need to kill things that are stronger than you? If that's the case, they have a pill for that. It works great. Just stay home and swallow it, and you save yourself a lifetime of being the most hated man in America who never advertised JELL-O Pudding on television.
And, by the way, I'm not against hunting. If you're hunting to eat, or to help keep the animal population healthy, or it's part of your culture or something, that's one thing. But if you're some a-hole dentist who wants a lion's head over the fireplace in his man cave so his douchebag buddies can gather around it and drink scotch and tell him how awesome he is, that's just vomitous.
Afterward, Kimmel tried to get something positive out of the situation. He told viewers, as his voice cracked, to go to www.wildcru.org to help out the researchers who were tracking Cecil.
"Make a donation, support them," Kimmel said. "At the very least, maybe we can show the world that not all Americans are like this jackhole here, this dentist."
Each week, a handful of Vox's writers will chat about the latest episode of True Detective's second season. Before you dig into this latest round, check out our recap of this week's episode, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date.
True Detective's sixth episode, "Church in Ruins," gave us some much-needed action (sorry), with the much-teased "colossal orgy" that our heroes infiltrated to finally make some progress in various areas of their investigation. And an episode wherein the climax (really, really sorry) takes place at a party full of hookers seems like as good a time as any to explore the show's tortured relationship with sex.
In True Detective's first season, sex was largely a perversion of family: Marty’s extramarital affairs, Maggie’s manipulation of Rust to finally break her bond with Marty, those creepy backwoods siblings providing visuals no one should ever have to relive. Even Marty’s daughter used her sexuality as a weapon in her rebellion against her father.
But in season two, sex is all about control, or rather the lack of it. This is not a new idea by any stretch of the imagination, but what’s interesting is how as the season progresses, the thread of that idea becomes clearer and clearer, running through each character’s storyline and helping to connect what sometimes feel like fairly disjointed subplots.
When it comes down to it, True Detective’s second season hasn’t presented a single normal, pleasant sexual experience. All of our characters have their own issues. Thanks to whatever ideas his negligee-wearing mother forced into his head as a child, Paul is constantly shackling himself to the idea of the life he thinks he has to have. He pops some pills and grits his teeth to consummate his relationship with Emily, trying to chain down the most secret parts of himself and commit to a life he knows he can never truly be happy in.
Frank’s problem is the inverse: Sex to him becomes a symbol of all his many failures as a man. Where Paul wants to use his unborn child as proof that he can cast off his true desires and have a "normal" life, Frank’s inability to have a kid is the gaping hole between the life he does lead and the one he tries so hard to build for himself.
For Ray, his wife’s complete loss of control — her rape — (maybe) brought about the one thing that keeps him from letting his misery swallow him completely: his son. Attempting to regain control of her own life is why Gena insists on knowing the truth about her son even as Ray begs her to let him hold on to his illusion.
What on another HBO show might have been shot to titillate here is warped to show the ugliness at the core
And then there’s Ani, who deploys her sexuality like the knives she carries, to throw the men she encounters off-balance and make sure they know she’s not someone to screw with. In this episode, the reason for this is made more explicit: We see through her hazy, drugged-out flashbacks that she was abused as a child by one of her father’s hippie religious friends, a fact she has apparently repressed. And while the show’s decision to hinge a major plot development on having its female lead dress up as a pricey escort was met with more than a little trepidation, the orgy scene paid off brilliantly for one reason: It showed everything from Ani’s perspective.
Yes, there were an inordinate number of naked people in the scene, thus fulfilling HBO’s T&A quota — but through Ani’s blurred, horrified eyes the tableaux became a nightmare funhouse carnival of flesh, all blank stares and the motions of intimacy with none of the emotion. And when her terrible companion leans in and says, "Would you like to watch for a while?" the disgusted look on Ani’s face implicates the audience too. This is what you find sexy, this violent, cruel exploitation? she seems to ask. What on another HBO show might have been shot to titillate here is warped to show the ugliness at the core. It’s not subtle, but it is effective, and even after Ani manages to escape with her missing girl, that sense of soupy, nightmarish terror lingers.
I didn't expect to find myself saying an orgy scene was one of the best parts of this season, but that big finish felt like it gave the show some sorely needed dramatic heft. Let's hope more good things are ... uh, arriving in the final two episodes.
Read the recap, and come back soon for more discussion.
Like this video? Subscribe to Vox on YouTube.

Why are the babies in medieval art so ugly?
To find the answer, I spoke to Matthew Averett, an art history professor at Creighton University who edited the anthology The Early Modern Child in Art and History. But really, just how ugly are these babies?
These babies look like horrifying tiny men with high cholesterol and strong opinions about housing association rules.
They're babies like this one from 1350:
This 1350 baby in "Madonna of Veveri" by the Master of the Vyssi Brod Altar looks like he's about to be fired for sexual harassment.
Print Collector/Getty Images
Or this one from 1333:
Painted in 1333 in Italy, Paolo Veneziano's "Madonna With Child" makes this baby look slightly too creepy for a David Lynch movie.
Paolo Veneziano/Mondadori Portfolio/Getty Images
These scary man-babies make one wonder how we went from ugly medieval depictions to the recognizably cherubic babies of the Renaissance and today. You can use the slider below to see just how much our idea of a "baby face" has changed:
<!--
new pym.Parent('ugly-babies__graphic', '//apps.voxmedia.com/at-preview/ugly-babies/', {xdomain: '.*\.voxmedia\.com'});
// -->
So why were there so many ugly babies? The reasons turned out to say a lot about art, medieval culture, and even the way we think of children today.
This ugly baby by Jacopo Bellini is actually from the 15th century, but he's an example of the medieval baby style. He looks like he was just accused of violating insider trading laws.
Print Collector/Getty Images
These ugly babies were very intentional. Drawing a line between the Middle Ages and the Renaissance is a useful tool when considering ugly babies and significantly more lovable ones. The two eras tend to show a difference in values.
"If we're thinking about children in a fundamentally different light, the painting will reflect the attitudes," Averett says.
"Style is chosen," he continues. "We might look at medieval art and go, 'These people don't look right.' But if your goal is to look like Picasso and you make a realistic painting, they'd say you didn't do it right, either." Though there were artistic innovations that came with the Renaissance, they aren't the reason babies became better-looking.
(Ugly baby note: Generally, people believe the Renaissance began in Florence, Italy, in the 14th century and rippled outward from there. However, like any intellectual movement, that characterization is simultaneously overly broad and narrow: It's too broad in that it gives the impression that Renaissance values were everywhere, instantly, and it's too narrow in that it limits a mass movement to a single pocket of innovation. There were holes in the Renaissance — you might easily see an ugly baby in 1521, if the artist were committed to the style.)
We can break down the following two reasons for the man-babies of medieval art:
Medieval portraits of children were usually commissioned by churches. And that made the range of subjects limited to Jesus and a few other biblical babies. Medieval concepts of Jesus were deeply influenced by the homunculus, which literally means little man. "There's the idea that Jesus was perfectly formed and unchanged," Averett says, "and if you combine that with Byzantine painting, it became a standard way to depict Jesus. In some of these images, it looks like he had male pattern baldness."
This baby by Barnaba da Modena (active 1361 to 1383) looks like it's about to have a midlife crisis.
DeAgostini/Getty Images
That homuncular, adult-looking Jesus became a convention for painting all children. Over time, it simply became the right way that people thought that they should paint babies.
This unrealistic depiction of Jesus reflects a broader approach to medieval art: They were less interested in realism or idealized forms than Renaissance artists were.
"The strangeness that we see in medieval art stems from a lack of interest in naturalism, and they veered more toward expressionistic conventions," Averett says.
In turn, this made most of the people in medieval art look similar. "The idea of artistic freedom to depict these people however you want would have been new. There were artistic conventions."
That style of painting kept babies looking like out-of-shape soccer dads, at least until the Renaissance happened.
A nice cute baby painted by Raphael in 1506.
Fine Art Images/Heritage Images/Getty Images
So what changed to make babies cute again?
In the Middle Ages, "we see less art of the middle class or even the common people," Averett says.
Once the Renaissance happened, that began to change as Florence's middle class flourished, and people were able to afford portraits of their own children. As portraiture expanded, people wanted their babies to look like cute babies instead of ugly adult homunculi. That changed the norms for a lot of art, including, eventually, portrayals of Jesus.
"In the Renaissance," Averett says, "there's this new interest in observing nature and depicting things as they're actually seen" rather than the expressionist attitudes of earlier art. That included more realistic babies — and beautiful cherubs that picked the best features drawn from real people.
Averett cautions against reading too much into the changing role of children in the Renaissance world — parents in the Middle Ages didn't love their kids any differently than Renaissance parents did. But during the Renaissance, a transformation of the idea of children was underway: from tiny adults to uniquely innocent creatures.
"We later have this idea of children being innocent," Averett notes. "If children are born without sin, they can't know things."
As adult attitudes toward children changed, so did adult portrayals of kids. Ugly babies (or beautiful ones) are a reflection of how a society thinks about their kids, about art, and about their goals as parents.
With all those factors combined, babies became the cheek-pinchable figures we know today. And that's easy for modern viewers like us to understand, since we still have some post-Renaissance ideals about kids.
That's why, to our eyes, it's a good thing baby pictures changed. Because this is a face only a mother could love:
This 1304 Icon from Bitonto shows a baby that looks like he wouldn't want to play peekaboo.
Mondadori Portfolio/Getty Images
The Boy Scouts of America on July 27 ended its ban on openly gay troop leaders. Of those present and voting, 79 percent of BSA's National Executive Board voted in favor of the resolution.
The board was challenged with reviewing the current adult leadership policy "denying membership to homosexuals." Their decision could impact how other education-focused organizations approach the matter. According to its website, BSA has about 2.5 million youth members and more than 960,000 volunteers.
BSA President Robert Gates signaled major changes to the organization's leadership policy in May, including the embrace of gay troop leaders nationwide. The BSA has been criticized in years past for its controversial policies on gay members. In 2013, the organization decided to allow gay scouts but maintained a ban on gay troop leaders on Scout councils.
During the May speech at an annual meeting in Atlanta, Gates reflected upon the then-pending US Supreme Court decision on same-sex marriage, and observed that the organization's local chapters would likely oppose expanding leadership opportunities for gay adults.

Below are the sections of the May speech in which Gates discussed the complicated history of sexual orientation, marriage equality, and the BSA. The speech comprises the primary arguments Gates publicized leading up to the executive committee vote.
Gates reviewed state of sexual orientation discrimination laws as well as same-sex marriage laws in the United States:
Nor can we ignore the social, political and juridical changes taking place in our country – changes taking place at a pace over this past year no one anticipated.
He pointed out that states like Arkansas and Indiana are considering laws that review sexual orientation discrimination. He also noted that the Supreme Court review of same-sex marriage laws, which was legalized nationwide in June:
I remind you of the recent debates we have seen in places like Indiana and Arkansas over discrimination based on sexual orientation, not to mention the impending U.S. Supreme court decision this summer on gay marriage. I am not asking the national board for any action to change our current policy at this meeting.
Gates said that he would speak "plainly and bluntly" to BSA leadership in advocating to remove the ban against gay scout members:
But I must speak as plainly and bluntly to you as I spoke to presidents when I was director of CIA and secretary of defense. We must deal with the world as it is, not as we might wish it to be.
Between a reference to his own past and the reluctance of local chapters to reform, Gates argued the organization required change:
The  status quo in our movement’s membership standards cannot be sustained.
The BSA would deny the "lifelong benefits of scouting" to potential members by revoking the charters of chapters who do not agree, he argued:
We can expect more councils to openly challenge the current policy. While technically we have the authority to revoke their charters, such an action would deny the lifelong benefits of scouting to hundreds of thousands of boys and young men today and vastly more in the future. I will not take that path.
Gates raised the examples of "dozens" of state reform efforts, including those in New York and Utah:
Moreover, dozens of states – from New York to Utah – are passing laws that protect employment rights on the basis of sexual orientation.
Gates, before shifting to closing remarks, acknowledged that the organization has "an unsustainable position":
Thus, between internal challenges and potential legal conflicts, the BSA finds itself in an unsustainable position. A position that makes us vulnerable to the possibility the courts simply will order us at some point to change our membership policy. We must all understand that this probably will happen sooner rather than later.
In closing remarks, Gates urged leaders to "seize control" of their own future.
E's I Am Cait, the new Keeping Up With the Kardashians spinoff focusing on the journey of Caitlyn Jenner after her public coming out as a trans woman, is, in some ways, necessary, moving television, the kind of thing that will hopefully make all sorts of other trans people out there feel a little less alone. Jenner is taking on the role of a gentle matriarch, in a way, deeply concerned with making sure everybody is okay and doing everything she can to make their lives better.
But in other ways, I Am Cait is a show at war with itself. In its best moments, it feels a bit like a long-form documentary, the camera just happening to be there for some remarkably intimate conversations. In other moments, however, it's hampered by the fact that it's a reality show, from a very famous reality show lineage. That means it has to play by the reality show rules, which have been feeling more and more barren for a few years now.
In short, what should be moving and revelatory ends up feeling awkward and stilted.
There's no better example of the show's inability to transcend its reality show roots than in the first segment. Caitlyn, having welcomed her two sisters and mother to her home, has invited over an expert in gender to answer questions her elderly mother has about the whole process.
There are a lot of fascinating ideas here, like the thought that Caitlyn's mother has known Caitlyn as Bruce for her whole life, and even if you are the most well-meaning person in the world, it can be harder for someone as old as she is to change how she thinks about someone so fundamentally. Caitlyn's mother really does want to do her best, but she keeps using male pronouns and bringing up Bruce. The episode doesn't condemn or praise her. It simply suggests this is something that happens — the adjustment period is harder for some than for others.
A trans woman undergoing transition later in life doesn't need overly dramatic music to be an interesting story
But as the episode heads to commercial, the reality show at its center shines through. Caitlyn's mom brings up the Bible, worrying about whether what Caitlyn is doing is a sin. And even if that idea arose organically in conversation, the show plays it to the hilt, with overly dramatic music and lots of cuts to concerned expressions from all gathered. What if Caitlyn's mother can't make this adjustment? What if everything falls apart?
It doesn't, of course. In the time-honored tradition of reality shows, everything is right back to the way it was in the very next segment, and by the end of the hour, everyone is promising to do their very best to learn more about Caitlyn's journey. But the false conflict from before still stings. It's just there to add an element of dramatic stakes to a story that already has all the dramatic stakes in the world.
A trans woman undergoing transition later in life doesn't need overly dramatic music to be an interesting story. But because the genre itself requires a major crisis to close every "act" (each segment of a show between commercials), I Am Cait will manufacture one to make sure nobody tunes out.
Reality TV has fallen so far from its first tentative steps in the 1990s and 2000s. When The Real World or Survivor or even The Osbournes (the show that gave rise to the "reality sitcom" genre Keeping Up With the Kardashians started out in) first hit the air, they felt like something exciting and new, like weird blends of documentary filmmaking with old TV forms — the hangout sitcom, say, or the game show.
Now, however, reality can't seem to find a way to leave those old crutches behind. It's too often uncomfortable with real human emotion, continually forcing the interesting stories within its confines into the narrow boxes it already knows how to sell.
Reality is uncomfortable with real human emotion
Say what you will about Duck Dynasty, for instance, but it's much less interesting as a document of the wacky adventures the producers cook up for its central Robertson family than it is as a portrait of conservative Christians trying to stay true to their creed in modern America. One show is a formulaic sitcom that just happens to star "real" people; the other depicts a world we don't see often enough on television. The more producers force the latter into the former, the worse off the show is.
The same goes even more for something like I Am Cait, where Jenner is such a revealing, confident presence on camera and clearly has so much to say about how much she wants to help trans teenagers and raise awareness of trans issues. But the producers flatten it all into a far weaker format.
But maybe that's for the best. Certainly the information that Jenner wants to share about the trans experience is information that is new to many of her viewers. And if it requires a familiar format for that information to get out there, then so be it. But I kept thinking about the show that could have been.
Jenner's onscreen presence reminds me a lot of that of Fred Rogers, the beloved host of Mister Rogers' Neighborhood. That PBS children's show, which ran from 1968 to 2001, was notable for just how gentle it was, how little it cared about conventional narrative structure. It trusted its young audience to stay glued to the screen because of the magnetism of Rogers's onscreen presence and the way he could directly, straightforwardly confront kids' emotions and concerns.
Like Rogers, Jenner has a kind of Zen calm. That got laughed off as befuddlement on Kardashians, but on Cait, it seems so much more potent, as if she, finally living as her true self, wants to share the gift of her happiness with the world. The segment when she goes to visit the family of a young trans boy who killed himself ends up the episode's best because of this quality. She has a real ability to sit and listen and find a way to get people to open up on camera, whether it's about her journey or theirs.
Caitlyn Jenner's onscreen presence reminds me a lot of that of Fred Rogers
But that's exactly the sort of thing reality TV shies away from. It's afraid of anything that can't be immediately packaged into a sound bite, and it often races as far away from those smaller moments as it can, heading for the relative safety of that dramatic music and heightened cut to commercial. Reality TV built its name atop big moments of high conflict, but it's easy to forget that the early seasons of The Real World, say, had just as much room for smaller moments between roommates.
I Am Cait has the potential to get back to this kinder, gentler form of TV and become a respite in the television landscape. Indeed, it's almost there. The only question is if it will have the guts to push past what a reality show is "supposed" to be and do something new. If it does (and is rewarded for it), we just might see it change the genre itself.
I Am Cait airs Sundays at 8 pm Eastern on E.
Rating
On one level, Rick and Morty is a madcap, anarchic animated Back to the Future parody, only with a substance-abusing, amoral Doc (Rick) and a considerably dumber Marty McFly (Morty, Rick's grandson). That'd be enough: It's a ridiculously funny premise that creators Justin Roiland (who voices both of the title characters) and Dan Harmon (who also created Community) mine for all it's worth.
But what takes the show — which returns to Adult Swim for its second season Sunday night — above and beyond the rest of Adult Swim's stoner-surrealist fare is that it's a rare TV exploration of morality that manages to avoid simplistic fables with pat lessons. It's strongly of the view that being competent matters more than having good intentions, and suggests that sometimes the worst-intentioned person in a situation can be the one doing the most good.
Most TV — most fiction, period — has an unfortunate tendency to equate benevolence and intelligence. Rick and Morty explicitly cleaves them from each other. Rick — the Christopher Lloyd–aping mad scientist grandfather — casually hops between solar systems, invents antimatter weapons, freezes time, and shrinks himself and Morty to the size of a blood vessel, among other tricks. He is, as he insists loudly and often, the smartest person in the show's universe.
He is also gleefully indifferent to even the most basic ethical norms. In an early season one episode, a group of human-scale insects are chasing him and Morty, and he orders Morty to fire at them: "They're just robots, Morty. It's okay to shoot them, they're robots!" So Morty shoots them, and watches as they bleed and cry out in agony. "They're not robots, Rick!"  he protests. "It's a figure of speech, Morty," Rick replies. "They're bureaucrats, I don't respect them."

Morty, by contrast, has a conscience but not much in the way of brains. He is often vocally disgusted with his grandfather's disregard for life, both human and nonhuman.  He frequently finds himself storming off in anger midway through one of his and Rick's missions. It's easy enough to understand why he goes along in the first place — he's an angsty, hormonal teenage boy, and gallivanting across time and space and interacting with various alien races is more interesting than staying home and pining after his crush, Jessica. But he rarely comes back from an adventure feeling positive about what he and Rick accomplished.
A lesser show would present Morty as a moral paragon from whom Rick gradually, if reluctantly, learns how to be good: the jaded, cynical old-timer being won over by a good-natured youngster. Think About a Boy or Finding Forrester or the Willem Dafoe arc in The Fault in Our Stars. But what makes Rick and Morty compelling is that it seems to think Rick's cynicism is well-founded — and that following Morty's well-intentioned instincts can lead to calamity.
The second episode of the second season begins with Rick selling an antimatter pistol to the world's bubbliest space assassin (who delivers lines like "I just love killing!" as though he's describing a passion for needlepoint). Morty, true to form, is horrified. He steals the weapon and kills the hitman, only to learn that the would-be victim he saved (an amorphous cloud played by Flight of the Conchords' Jermaine Clement that Rick repeatedly refers to as "that fart") is capable of rearranging atoms at will, of turning oxygen into gold. So naturally, just about everyone in the galaxy is trying to kidnap the fart to use for their own purposes.
Later, as Rick, Morty, and the fart are escaping a race of aliens with metal gears for faces, killing many in the process, Rick asks, "Hey Morty, remember when you said selling a gun was as bad as pulling the trigger? How do you feel about all these people who are getting killed today because of your choices?"
Rick lectures Morty after he kills the hitman in "Mortynight Run," the second episode of season two.
Adult Swim
Rick is right — but more importantly, he doesn't care that he's right, at least not morally right anyway. He just likes making Morty feel bad, and getting back at him for disrupting Rick's plans for a day of fun at Blips & Chitz (think Dave & Busters, but in space). That's what makes the scenario so compelling: The character who wants to do the right thing only winds up causing more carnage and destruction, whereas the character who would've avoided that genuinely does not care about saving lives, and only arrived at the right answer because it was convenient for him. There's a total disconnect between their motives and their ability to understand and anticipate the consequences of their actions.
If this seems like overthinking it, don't worry — Rick and Morty is also totally enjoyable as a wacky space comedy, and it's hysterically funny. Just listen to "Goodbye Moonmen," the fart's David Bowie–esque ode to a "cosmos without hatred":

The show's quietly radical moral philosophy is just a bonus.
Rick and Morty's second season premieres on Adult Swim at 11:30 pm Sunday. The first season is available for streaming on Hulu Plus and (with the exception of episode six) on Adult Swim's website; the first five episodes require a cable or satellite subscription if you're viewing at Adult Swim.
"Church in Ruins," the sixth episode of True Detective's second season, is the show's best hour since the first season's fifth episode. (That's the one that pushed the Yellow King speculation to a fever pitch, ending with Rust Cohle in an abandoned building, holding aloft a small sculpture made of twigs.) There's a lot of dumb stuff in it — because this is a show that can't help but do some dumb stuff in every episode — but by the end of the hour, I really felt like I'd seen a satisfying episode of television.
And there's one reason for that: It's by far the most simple, straightforward episode of the season. The ornate dialogue and complicated storytelling styles fall away, and what we're left with is an hour in which every single character has a clear goal, then goes through hell to pursue that goal.

Too often, this season of True Detective has confused complication for complexity. It has, in other words, thought that by piling element after element atop the main story (which is, I guess, the search for the killer of Ben Caspere), it could find a way to stall for time in a story that probably only needed to be three or four hours or so.
There's been a lot of filler — and there's a fair amount of filler in this episode, too. But now the show seems to be completely eschewing much of what didn't work (outside of Frank's subplot, which it seems to be stuck with) in favor of just telling a story about the dark heart of its California setting.
Here are six ways simplicity helped the show get back on track for an hour.
Ani finds herself at the party from hell in a sequence straight out of a horror film.
HBO
Ani's undercover visit to one of the so-called "hooker parties" had the potential to be an utter disaster. The show has always struggled with women characters — and having its most significant woman so far pretend to be a prostitute to get information was exactly the sort of thing that played into all of the series' weaknesses.
But, somehow, the whole thing worked beautifully. When there were rumors that this season would depict an orgy, it seemed like exactly the sort of facile, "hardcore" storyline that the show often uses as a shortcut to seeming more adult and complex than it actually is.
Instead, as scripted by Nic Pizzolatto and Scott Lasser and directed by Miguel Sapochnik (also the director of this season's best Game of Thrones episode and clearly someone HBO needs to add to its most frequent contacts list), the sequence holds on Ani throughout. Women are drugged into a stupor and taken advantage of by rich and powerful men, but it happens blurred out in the background, as her face, struggling to comprehend what's happening, occupies the foreground. She, too, has been drugged and has to figure out an escape plan before things take a turn for the worse.
When Ani ultimately stabs two men, probably killing one of them, in an attempt to escape the mansion with the girl she's been seeking all season, it feels at once like a minor victory and like a tiny drop in a giant ocean. "Church in Ruins" suggests throughout its running time that the scale of evil is vast — and that it sends those who would do good chasing their own tails, that they won't catch on to the truly awful things in the world.
How simplicity helped here: Literally, this sequence is a haunted house story, only with very human monsters. All of the questions about the gigantic conspiracy to defraud the California public and rape unsuspecting young women fall away, and the story simply becomes one where a woman we've come to care about has to escape a bad situation. And in the process — via hallucinatory flashbacks to a man who abused her as a child — we fill in some of the blanks of her history. It's compelling storytelling.
Ray and his son have a heart-to-heart that actually seems to accomplish something.
HBO
So much of what this season has struggled with is conveying the back-story of its assorted characters. We've been told, in multiple different ways, about their awful histories, but we haven't really gotten a feel for them, beyond knowing they exist. Ray's relationship with his son, say, has always felt like a perfunctory add-on, something that's there because the show wants to give him something to lose.
Not everything about Ray's story here works — his cocaine freakout is pretty silly — but the scenes where he sits down with Frank to confront him about having killed the wrong man and where he tells his son that no matter what he might hear, Ray is his father, have a potency to them that washes away the awkward plotting required to get here.
How simplicity helped here: The best emotional scenes cut to the quick. They shove aside ostentatiousness and complication in favor of zooming in on the one emotional turn that matters. Here, that was Ray and Frank coming to a kind of accord, or Ray telling his son, a quaver in his voice, that he was his father. It's the kind of earnest emotion that season one had in spades and season two has mostly avoided. But that made it land all the harder in this episode.
The bus speeds toward that awful party.
HBO
I can more or less encapsulate this in the shot above, a bus full of young women speeding toward a party where they'll be horribly used and abused, utilizing California's gleaming freeways. Sapochnik shoots this like Charon ferrying the souls of the dead on to the Underworld.
How simplicity helped here: The more elements the show piled atop the central idea of seemingly every rich man in California doing terrible things almost as a matter of course, the more the series struggled to have it make any sense. (Giant conspiracies inherently beggar belief.) Instead of explaining these things endlessly, "Church in Ruins" simply takes them as a fact of life. Once they're inherent to the premise, they become easier to swallow, because the focus is on other things, instead of their ridiculousness.
Frank finds himself in a very sticky situation. But do you really care if he lives or dies?
HBO
If you think about it, True Detective, season two, is just True Detective, season one, with a bunch of extra stuff piled on top of it. At the center of the season is the investigation carried out (mostly) by Ray and Ani, with Paul occasionally subbing in for one of the two. (That, perhaps, is why Paul is the least defined character — he's literally just someone who comes in off the bench.) The team is investigating a massive conspiracy of powerful men, which reveals itself slowly as part of a seemingly simple murder investigation.
The problem, of course, is Frank, whose storyline has little to no connection to what's going on. I fully expect the show to tie it in in the end — after all, Ray only started investigating in earnest because Frank lost all that money he'd given to Caspere — but the crumbling of Frank's criminal empire really doesn't matter one way or another, even as a thematic parallel.
How simplicity helped here: At least this episode featured Frank doing something that was vaguely understandable — he wanted to find a missing woman whose pawn sales had led to that massive shootout in episode four. It still made for easily the weakest segment of the episode, but at least it all made a kind of sense.
Ray's cheese grater threats are pretty ridiculous, but the framing of this shot is beautiful!
HBO
For once, when Ray threatens to strip the flesh from a man with a cheese grater, his hushed growl seems less like a goofy non sequitur and more like a man who keeps trying to change his ways and failing.
So much of this season has been about navigating codes of masculinity within a world that seemingly rewards their worst impulses, but the contrast between Ray's backstory and threats and the horrible things happening at that mansion couldn't be clearer. Masculinity might offer a quick, sudden rush, but when it becomes the only thing you have to live for, it ultimately corrupts and destroys.
How simplicity helped here: Instead of trying to underline these ideas, True Detective has mostly let them play out in the background this season. It's been a bit scattered and confused here and there, but it's also been probably the most consistent theme of the season.
Sapochnik's use of angles in this scene is quite nice, too.
HBO
When Ani bursts out of that mansion and makes it to Ray's waiting car, the season finally gains the momentum it's been missing all along. The characters have a big set of files that apparently implicate some very powerful people, and that would suggest said powerful people are going to be taking aim at our heroes, lest they go public somehow. With two episodes left in the season, that's a great place for the show to be in.
There are going to be tons and tons of postmortems when the season is over, as to why it didn't work, and I think the main argument is that the story started far too early, then stretched out its opening acts unnecessarily. The actual events of these first six episodes, compressed into three or four hours of TV, could have been very compelling. But stretched out as much as they have been, they've lacked momentum.
How simplicity helped here: Instead of underlining and explaining every point, that final sequence trusted the audience to simply understand what was happening. That confidence and trust went a long way.
Away we go.
HBO
There's lots to talk about both here and in the world of culture. Send me your questions below!
Previous episode
The newest cover of New York magazine pictures 35 women who have accused Bill Cosby of sexually assaulting them:
The story and pictures, put together by Noreen Malone and Amanda Demme over six months, give an in-depth view of all the women's accusations, spanning more than five decades. The stories are remarkably similar, typically involving the comedian offering a woman a cup of coffee or some sort of alcoholic beverage — which may be spiked with drugs — and allegedly sexually assaulting the victim as she's impaired or unconscious.
Take, for instance, Barbara Bowman's testimony to New York magazine:
At 17, my agent introduced me to Bill Cosby, who was going to mentor me and take me to the next level of my career. Over the course of the next year, I was drugged half the time when I was with him and would come out of a delusional experience going, 'Whoa, what was that?' He would say, 'Well, I needed to undress you and wash your clothes because you got drunk and made a fool of yourself.' Do you remember the Jaycee Dugard story? She pretty much could have climbed over the fence any time she wanted to but was just so broken down and couldn't think straight. I felt like a prisoner; I felt I was kidnapped and hiding in plain sight. I could have walked down any street of Manhattan at any time and said, 'I'm being raped and drugged by Bill Cosby,' but who the hell would have believed me? Nobody, nobody.
The evidence against Cosby appears to be mounting. Earlier this month, the Associated Press reported on a 2005 deposition in which Cosby said he had purchased Quaaludes, a type of sedative, with the intent of giving them to women he planned to have sex with. Cosby didn't admit that he gave the sedative to women without their permission, but it certainly seems damning for the comedian in light of all the evidence against him. The New York cover provides a clear visual of just how extensive all that evidence is, even leaving an empty chair for the next potential woman who speaks out.
Read New York magazine's full story.
The idea behind Phoenix, the new German film slowly rolling out across the US, feels like something that would have driven a '90s action thriller.


Rating
A woman, her visage scarred by horrors unimaginable, has facial reconstructive surgery, so she looks like herself, but also not like herself. She goes to find the husband who may have betrayed her — only to realize he doesn't recognize her. But he thinks she looks enough like his wife (whom he believes to be dead) that she can collect — and then split with him — a bunch of money she is owed.
So he's going to train her to be just like his wife — without realizing he's teaching her to be just like herself. Perhaps because she's not sure of his loyalties anymore, she stays quiet as to her true identity. Can't you imagine Ashley Judd starring in the worst possible version of that?

Nelly (Nina Hoss) examines the bombed out ruins of her former home. (Sundance Selects)
What makes Phoenix so remarkable, then, is director and writer Christian Petzold's marvelous command of tone. His premise is ridiculous, sure, but he tells the whole story in tight focus. Nelly, the Holocaust survivor who is his heroine (marvelously played by Nina Hoss), starts out as a collection of bandages holding together what once was a face. As the film wears on, Petzold's camera holds on that face as it shifts and adjusts to the world it finds itself in. The backgrounds bleed out. All that's left is what this woman is experiencing.
Petzold's other terrific choice is to set his story in a world today's audiences don't know much about — immediately post–World War II Germany. Part of a recent mini-wave of German films that grapple with the legacy of the war as seen by directors who weren't alive for it, Phoenix reimagines bombed-out, rubble-strewn cities as almost dreamy places where the regular rules of logic go out the window.
Early in the film, Nelly visits her old home, now a pile of bricks, and awkwardly picks her way through the mess. Looking at the chaos, she comes to one conclusion: "I don't exist."
Though she was not an observant Jew before the war, Nelly was sent to Auschwitz anyway, because of her heritage. Her survival is a total accident — she was shot in the face and left for dead. And her new face serves as a visual metaphor for what's happened to her. Sometimes, events happen to people that are so horrific that they effectively become entirely new people, unrecognizable even to those who loved them most.

Nelly, in full disguise as herself, gets off a train. (Sundance Selects)
Petzold chooses to keep images of the "old" Nelly obscured. Photos of her usually feature her in profile, shielded by her hair, and a couple of dream sequences keep her in shadow. It's, in one way, a practical solution to the problem of finding an actress who looks like Hoss but not quite like her, but it's also a great representation of the way trauma splits lives in two, so that those who have suffered and survived find those old lives swathed in hazy darkness.
None of it would work without Hoss and her two most frequent scene partners, Ronald Zehrfeld (as husband Johnny, who may have turned her over to the Nazis) and Nina Kunzendorf (as Lene, seemingly the only friend Nelly has left — unless she has motives of her own). Hoss plays Nelly as, effectively, the human equivalent of nails scraping along a chalkboard — all frayed nerves and halting, colt-like steps. And as she figures out how to navigate her new self (and whether there's a place for Johnny or Lene in that life), Hoss turns that process into a kind of moving into a new life — figuring out what to keep from the old life and what to throw out. She's devastating in the film's final scene, which is also its best.
The comparison point most often made in review of Phoenix is to the films of Alfred Hitchcock. (Look! I just did it, too!) But what sets Phoenix apart from, say, Vertigo (the Hitchcock film it most resembles, what with Vertigo's similar set of female doppelgangers, one trained to behave like the other) is the way it focuses entirely on the journey of the woman in its story, rather than the man training her. Simply shifting the perspective reveals so many new facets to the story — and to the very human idea of picking up and reassembling the pieces of yourself after they've been shattered and scattered.
Phoenix is currently playing in New York. It will expand throughout the country in the weeks to come.
Just in time for the show to play out the string of what might be its final run of episodes ever, Hannibal is on one hell of a hot streak.
Its latest episode, "The Great Red Dragon," kicks off the very first Hannibal Lecter story. The novel from which it takes its basis, Thomas Harris's Red Dragon, was the very first book to feature the character, and though Hannibal the TV series has delved into the backstory Harris only hints at, the episode's greatest success is in approaching the story almost as another pilot.
Indeed, if you had friends who were curious about the show and looking for a place to jump in, this would be a good one, if the show's end weren't imminent.

"Great Red Dragon" takes place three years after the last episode, and though only a week in time has passed between their airdates, the episode's script (credited to Nick Antosca, Steve Lightfoot, and Bryan Fuller) does a great job at suggesting that things have changed.
Will Graham has left behind criminal profiling in favor of a quiet life with his new wife and stepson. Hannibal is wasting away in prison. And in the shadows, a new killer arises.
Director Neil Marshall's shots fit perfectly within the gorgeously ornate world of Hannibal
But another reason this episode works so beautifully as the start of a new chapter in this story is because of director Neil Marshall. The Brit has directed episodes of Game of Thrones in the past, but his primary qualification for directing Hannibal is likely his work on The Descent, an absolutely terrific horror film about cavers who encounter something horrible while on an expedition. (I wrote a little more about the film here.) Marshall's shots are exquisitely composed, something that fits perfectly within the gorgeously ornate world of Hannibal.
If last week's episode was the show reasserting itself as TV's most messed up, "The Great Red Dragon" reminds us it's one of the most beautiful, too. Here are nine moments where Marshall found the beautiful in the horrific.
Francis Dolarhyde (Richard Armitage) struggles with the awakening horrors within himself.
NBC
The villain of Red Dragon is a man named Francis Dolarhyde, who carries himself more or less normally much of the time, except for the fact that some dark side of himself is awakening inside his brain. Imagining himself the "red dragon" depicted in William Blake's paintings (and dubbed the "Tooth Fairy" by the media), Francis assaults and kills whole families at a time, working out his own horrible psychological issues.
What's key, then, to any portrayal of the character is the divide between his "normal" self and that darker side. Some of that is helped by the voices in his head (manifesting here mostly as unearthly growls), but the temptation might be to, say, portray an actual dragon or something. On a TV budget, Hannibal can never give in to that idea.
Instead, Marshall focuses on Francis's hands as the dragon awakens, the way that he contorts them into rigid claws, his imagination trying to create the beast he feels within himself. Fuller has frequently talked about the element of transformation that underlies essentially all of Harris's villains, and Francis's attempts to turn himself into a literal dragon are expressed perfectly here, in a long, artful montage that captures how his day-to-day life is being snapped in two by these growing feelings, or the process that results in his massive dragon tattoo sprawling across his back.
Francis stands before the painting that inspired his back tattoo.
NBC
Hannibal's cell is replaced by an elegant dining room.
NBC
While enclosed in a cell, Hannibal Lecter imagines a kind of freedom by retreating to what he calls his "memory palace," a place where he can experience some of the wonderful places he visited while he was not imprisoned.
Marshall portrays this via an elegant dissolve, as the space behind Hannibal at first stands as a barren, mostly functional cell, before being replaced by the decorations of Hannibal's old dining room. Marshall will play around with perspective throughout the episode, occasionally showing us events as they appear inside Hannibal's brain and then showing as they actually are, in reality. It's a nifty trick, and it sets up what comes later perfectly.
Will is now married to Molly (Nina Arianda).
NBC
In some ways, the character of Molly (the woman Will marries in between the arrest of Hannibal and the beginning of Red Dragon) is a thankless one. She and her son exist mostly to give Will something other than his work, and in places she mostly seems to be around solely to fulfill the role of "light in the darkness" that women have so often occupied in crime fiction. Yes, as one of the first serial killer novels, Red Dragon invented how this trope would be used going forward, but it's still become a trope.
Still, the character is played by Nina Arianda in the series, and Arianda's a good enough actress that she might pull this off. Similarly, notice how Marshall often films the character as if she's the stable tether to reality Will has been searching for so long. Marshall presents her not as something Will can lose (as previous versions of the story sometimes have), but, instead, as his strength.
Hannibal and Chilton have a lovely dinner inside the former's cell.
NBC
This scene, in which Hannibal dines with Frederick Chilton (who is the head of the psychiatric hospital where Hannibal is held) is one of the episode's best, even if it's slightly unbelievable that Chilton would allow Hannibal to prepare food in prison.
Chilton ribs Hannibal about how much more popular the Tooth Fairy is now (in terms that seem to grouse about the low ratings of the show itself), while Hannibal's mind keeps switching between the stark reality of his surroundings and the more opulent world he used to occupy. It's a sly, funny sequence, and it's a great reminder of how much light Chilton brings to the Hannibal universe.
Will imagines himself committing the crimes of the Tooth Fairy.
NBC
One of the reasons "Great Red Dragon" feels like it takes place three years after the last episode is because it subtly tricks the audience into feeling like the show's been away for a while. It does this by returning to the case of the week format the series employed in its first season (and fitfully in its second).
I opined a few weeks ago that the abandonment of the cases of the week was hurting season three, and I still think that had a tendency to make Will feel like somebody people offered exposition to, rather than an active character. But at the same time, that long pause in his narrative made the weight of this moment, when he closes his eyes and imagines himself at the Tooth Fairy's crime scene (as he did back in season one), so much more powerful and potent.
Or, put another way, the listlessness of the early portions of the season has made these last few episodes feel all the more powerful. That doesn't forgive what came before, but it does paint it in a more sympathetic light.
The horrific crime scene grounds the episode in grim reality.
NBC
It's tempting to forget, sometimes, that Hannibal is about murder, because the murders are presented as almost supernatural in nature, as events that happen because normal people met the wrong sort of demon at the wrong time. "Great Red Dragon" uses the Tooth Fairy's crime scene to remind us that these deaths might be over the top, but they're real. A family died in horrible fashion, here, and nothing will restore their lives.
Will sees his face in the broken shards of the mirror, as he imagines the Tooth Fairy must have.
NBC
The sequence where Will examines the Tooth Fairy crime scene is filled with tremendous shots, in which Marshall shows off his visual gifts. Here's one of them, as Will sees himself reflected in the tiny shards of mirror the Tooth Fairy uses to cover his victims' faces.
It's all in Will's head, admittedly, but it's still an especially potent image, especially when we factor in the ways that Francis Dolarhyde feels like he's transforming into something more than human.
Will seems to have red dragon wings.
NBC
This shot is almost too cool to exist on television. In particular, take note of Marshall's use of light, which slowly rises to accent the red in the strings that make up Will's "wings."
Hannibal and Will meet again for the first time in years.
NBC
We know Hannibal and Will are going to meet and talk again. Even if we haven't read Red Dragon (where this happens frequently), we know how television works, and we know the series is going to return to this dynamic again and again.
But the choice to end the episode on their first meeting in three years (and Marshall's choice to shoot it via shots that hold both characters in frame at the same time but only have one in focus at any given moment) gives everything a gravity that almost leaps off the screen.
Something went terribly wrong between these two men, but if they're going to have a prayer of putting the Tooth Fairy in prison, they're going to have to find a way to put at least some of it right again. That's the dynamic Harris exploited in his novel, and it's a dynamic that has gained so much more power on this series for knowing the backstory. The pages of Red Dragon are in good hands.
Previous episode
Lionsgate has released the official trailer for Mockingjay— Part 2, the final Hunger Games movie in the franchise. It builds off the teaser trailer released last month, with more Katniss (Jennifer Lawrence), more Peeta (Josh Hutcherson), and a better look at the traps and peril in store for the rebellion.
Here are some spoilers. Please don't read if you don't want to be spoiled.
We got out first look at the lizard-like people who eventually spell the demise of one of the franchise's most beloved characters:

(Lionsgate)
The ending with the parachutes:

(Lionsgate)
And the meat grinder pod:

(Lionsgate)
The movie is set for release on November 20, 2015.
Fox's sci-fi miniseries Wayward Pines, which wraps its 10-episode run Thursday, July 23, is everything that is wrong with television. Its storytelling and characters are buried by big, shocking moments that are designed to thrill in the instant but completely fall apart if you think about them for a moment longer. Its internal logic makes literally no sense. And it features one of the best bad performances by a teenager in a medium known for bad performances by teenagers.
But my god, do I love to watch it.
If I were to explain why, I would probably say that it's exactly my brand of ridiculousness. Yes, I spend most of the time I'm watching it mocking the thing, but it's a good-hearted kind of mockery, the kind where you secretly are afraid to admit how much you're enjoying yourself.
And judging by the ratings, which have been strong for a new summer show and even stronger once DVR viewership is factored in, lots of you agree with me. I don't see a lot of people talking about this show like it's the next great TV series or even something on the level of, say, The Walking Dead (similarly trashy, but at least trying interesting things). No, we all seem to have agreed, collectively, that, dammit, it's summer, and we're going to have some fun.
Here are the top five reasons Wayward Pines can be so awful — and yet so very entertaining.
Wayward Pines revealed many of its big secrets at the season's midpoint, instead of its end. Its storytelling choices are surprisingly bold.
Fox
In general, I think the "big, shocking moments" storytelling style has the potential to ruin television as we know it because storytelling requires careful management of build and payoff, and this method is all payoff. I've already excoriated this style when it comes to American Horror Story and True Detective and even Game of Thrones.
So why do I think it works on Wayward Pines?
Honestly, I think it's because everybody involved thought they were making a one-and-done miniseries, which means that Chad Hodge (the writer who adapted it from a trilogy of books) goes out of his way to dole out at least one huge moment per episode — then makes sure that moment has actual consequences, instead of being swept under the rug.
That tendency to backtrack has been the foremost thing hurting AHS and True Detective (which have both featured seeming character deaths that are immediately reversed an episode later), but Wayward Pines kills off two of its biggest stars in the first three episodes, then keeps rolling out plot twists that keep you off-kilter. (For instance, it reveals the vast majority of answers to its mysteries halfway in, whereas many shows would wait for the finale.)
Look, this is still a style of storytelling designed to emphasize shock above all other emotions, and shock is the easiest emotion to wear out. But if you're going to make this kind of show, then you have to commit. And if Wayward Pines does nothing else, then it definitely, definitely commits.
If you still plan to watch Wayward Pines and want to avoid spoilers, skip to the next point, because I'm spoiling this sucker.
The world of Wayward Pines is one in which a scientist correctly realized that humankind was doomed — due to some combination of environmental collapse and genetic abnormalities — and thus decided to put a whole bunch of people in suspended animation for 2,000 years, then have everybody wake up in a post-human future. Naturally, once he got there, he discovered humanity had somehow evolved in mere millennia into a species of bloodthirsty monsters, but who can ever tell with these things?
Now, because people will apparently kill themselves if they learn the truth about their world (or so the show unconvincingly argues), he's created an elaborate homage to Twin Peaks in the middle of Idaho, where people are forced to live under extremely harsh surveillance state rules and children are being reeducated to understand the folly of their parents, who cling to the old world.
If that sounds like a parallel for Nazi Germany or the Soviet Union or the NSA's PRISM program or basically any political regime or program people vehemently disagree with, you are correct. Not satisfied with being a coherent parallel of one thing, Wayward Pines just decides to be a parallel for all of these things, with occasional monster attacks. It kind of works!
But one thing's guaranteed — there's no other setting like this on TV, or anywhere else, really. And that gives the show a bit of novelty that makes it fun to watch.
Yes, this show has monsters. Does it make sense? Only a little bit.
Fox
Figuring I would never possibly want to watch the TV show but also figuring I couldn't wait to learn what the big twist was, I read author Blake Crouch's Wayward Pines trilogy, which formed the basis of the miniseries. (Indeed, as we head into the finale, all but the climax of the third book has been adapted, more or less.)
What I found was an intriguing enough idea for a universe (see above) surrounded by some clumsy writing. Crouch is adequate at plotting, but his prose leaves much to be desired. For instance, he's never met a firearm he can't take a brief break to lovingly describe, and he spends inordinate amounts of time in the first book on social niceties that go on and on forever.
Hodge has taken some of the best core ideas of the books and turned them into something much leaner and meaner. His restructuring of Crouch's trilogy — particularly once the big secret is revealed — is probably the best possible version of this tale. Those who've watched the show will probably doubt me, but seriously, this could have been so much worse.
I have no idea how Fox attracted a cast of this caliber for this particular project, but everybody involved seems to be having a looney tunes good time with things. Arguably, the weak link of the adult cast is Matt Dillon as the main character — and even he seems to be getting into the wild-eyed spirit of the thing.
I have to single out in particular, however, Melissa Leo and Hope Davis as two of the series' darkest villains. Academy Award winner Leo has given her character — the sister of the scientist — a surprising hint of pathos that will surely pay off in the finale. And Davis (one of our greatest character actresses) has been asked to perform some of the miniseries' toughest tasks (like a lengthy monologue that's all exposition about how the world of the show came to be) and has dug into them with the ferocity she brings to every role. The second you stop to think about what either character is doing, the spell dissipates, but both actresses are bringing everything they have and creating some brilliant camp.
Sadly, Charlie Tahan, who plays the teenage son of the protagonist, is giving an incredibly bland, boring TV teenager performance. Tahan, who's very good in the movie Love Is Strange, is capable of better. But he's carrying a lot of the dramatic stakes of Wayward Pines, and he lets them down far too often.
Here's hoping the Pilchers (Melissa Leo and Toby Jones) survive the carnage.
Fox
Seriously, the story will be over tonight, no matter what else happens.
There's been talk of doing a second "season" of Wayward, but because the cast has all scattered to other projects, another season would have to tell some other story within this universe.
That's a terrible idea. But because it would involve a new set of characters, most likely, it would accidentally preserve the sheer, awful integrity of this gloriously bad season of television. Wayward Pines is that rarest of TV comets — bad TV that has just enough of a twinkle in its eye to let you know it's aware of how bad it is. Sit back, it suggests. Relax. Giggle at the bloodbath.
Wayward Pines airs Thursdays on Fox at 9 pm Eastern. Previous episodes are available on Hulu.
Late Tuesday afternoon, acclaimed pop star Taylor Swift sent an emotionally wounded retort to fellow acclaimed pop star Nicki Minaj. Swift was nominated for an MTV Video Music Award for Best Video, while Minaj was not. Swift thought Minaj was unfairly directing blame for the snub at her, when Minaj should really be blaming one of the men nominated for said award.
Naturally, since this is 2015, Swift launched her reply on Twitter, where everybody could see it.
@NICKIMINAJ I've done nothing but love & support you. It's unlike you to pit women against each other. Maybe one of the men took your slot..

It was just the latest development in a long, unfolding saga that ended up involving people with very, very carefully sculpted images behaving like, well, human beings on social media, and learning a lesson all parents should tell their children when tucking them in at night: No matter what it is, never tweet.
The MTV Video Music Awards are now primarily known in the public consciousness as a platform for unusually bananas musical performances. (It's where, for instance, Miley Cyrus twerked and launched a million think pieces.) But like music's other big awards — the Grammys — those performances are just there so you'll watch while awards are handed out, and even if the audience doesn't particularly care who wins, the artists very much do.

Minaj's video for "Anaconda," a riotous, gleeful celebration (and satirization) of female sexuality, was by far one of the biggest videos of the year. Essentially everything Swift touches nowadays turns to gold. It made sense to assume they would both be nominated.
Except that Minaj — who did receive three other VMA nominations in lower ballot categories — was passed over, while Swift was nominated for the overstuffed, overhyped "Bad Blood" video, filled with celebrity cameos and a far cry from essentially any other music video she released in the past year:

Here were the five nominees MTV arrived at:
In terms of sheer artistic impact, this is a pretty weak crop. (Arguably, "Uptown Funk" is the one that's had the most cultural reach, and that's a pretty bland video.) It's hard to see why "Anaconda" doesn't belong on the list, and Minaj felt similarly.
If I was a different "kind" of artist, Anaconda would be nominated for best choreo and vid of the year as well.
Ellen did her own anaconda video and did the #choreo lol. Remember her doing that kick  . Even mtv did a post on the choreo @MTV remember?
U couldn't go on social media w/o seeing ppl doing the cover art, choreo, outfits for Halloween...an impact like that & no VOTY nomination?
When the "other" girls drop a video that breaks records and impacts culture they get that nomination.
If your video celebrates women with very slim bodies, you will be nominated for vid of the year
It's those last two tweets Swift took umbrage at.
Part of the problem with discussing these things on Twitter is that Twitter's very format invites misinterpretation. Limited character counts lend themselves to people getting the wrong idea.
So it's easy to see why Swift assumed Minaj's tweet referred to her — "Bad Blood" is, after all, the video by a woman in that category that broke records and impacted culture. It also prominently features a number of women with "very slim bodies": not just Swift but Selena Gomez, Karlie Kloss, Cara Delevingne, and Jessica Alba, to name a few.
But Minaj frequently discusses the ways that white culture appropriates and homogenizes black culture in the course of making it "popular." She could have just as easily been talking about, say, her longtime target Iggy Azalea, whose "Fancy" was a nominee last year. Her target, under this argument, is the VMAs and MTV as institutions.
For her part, Minaj said Swift wasn't on her mind at all:
Huh? U must not be reading my tweets. Didn't say a word about u. I love u just as much. But u should speak on this. @taylorswift13
She also said she would be on stage to accept her award for video of the year — which, given that she wasn't nominated, could plausibly be read as a promise to imitate Kanye West and go up on stage after an inferior video won.
Oh but trust me. I'll be on that stage to collect my awards for vid of the year. Feeling Myself & Anaconda.
Swift's last words on the subject (so far) were to invite Minaj to join her should she win:
@NICKIMINAJ If I win, please come up with me!! You're invited to any stage I'm ever on.
The Swift kerfuffle distracts from Minaj's larger point, which is that the artistic achievements of black people — particularly black women — are frequently co-opted and commodified by white culture, which is then celebrated for being edgy or groundbreaking. When you view Minaj's tweets in this context, it seems much more likely that she simply wasn't even thinking about Swift when she wrote her tweets.
But by trying to shift the conversation from racism to sexism, Swift misses Minaj's point as well.
.@taylorswift13 stop using "support all girls" as an excuse to not be critical of racist media that benefits and glorifies you
What we're talking about here is something called "intersectionality," which is the idea that everybody carries some form of privilege with them, even if they lack privilege in other areas.
The most obvious example of this usually involves flare-ups between white women and women of color, who all experience society's ingrained sexism as women but don't all experience society's ingrained racism. And because of the former, white women often fail, from the perspective of women of color, to grasp the latter.
I'm so glad u guys get to see how this stuff works. Taylor took her music off spotify and was applauded. We launched Tidal & were dragged.

This is not to say that Swift is wrong, per se — indeed, both her point and Minaj's are hugely valid. But Swift utterly misses the larger discussion Minaj was trying to kick off.
A day after the original Twitter brouhaha, Minaj followed up with an excerpt from this Guardian article, which she suggested proved her larger point:
The Guardian. Just one of the many eye opening portions of this truth telling article. pic.twitter.com/benDpg6CGc

To be sure, Swift's remarks are particularly rich, considering she's nominated for a video for a song widely rumored to be about her apparent blood feud with fellow pop singer Katy Perry. (The rumor goes that the two fell out over backup dancers, of all things.)
Perry herself seemingly responded to this aspect of the situation, if obliquely, a day later.
Finding it ironic to parade the pit women against other women argument about as one unmeasurably capitalizes on the take down of a woman...

But it's also interesting to see Swift — normally such a controlled presence on social media, to the degree that even her personal moments feel carefully vetted — have such a human response to something she saw as a personal attack. It's hard to say what Swift will gather from the whole thing — but one lesson she'll almost certainly learn is to think twice before hitting the tweet button.
On Thursday morning, two days after this kerfuffle began, Taylor Swift apologized for misunderstanding the tweet. She tweeted out a public apology to Minaj saying she misspoke:
I thought I was being called out. I missed the point, I misunderstood, then misspoke. I'm sorry, Nicki. @NICKIMINAJ
Minaj responded in kind:
That means so much Taylor, thank you. @taylorswift13 ❤️❤️❤️
It just is.

Update: Added additional Twitter responses from Minaj and Perry, as of Wednesday, July 22.
Update 2: Added Swift's apology and Minaj's response.
Simmons parted ways with ESPN in May. He had worked at the sports network in some capacity since 2001. While there, Simmons created and edited Grantland, a revered sports and pop culture site with a loyal following.
Despite being best known as an online columnist, Simmons has previous TV experience. Prior to this new deal with HBO, he worked as an analyst for NBA games and contributed to ESPN's E:60 series. He also helped conceive ESPN's documentary series 30 for 30.
It sure sounds like Simmons's new show will pursue the same eclectic mix of sports talk and pop culture that made the writer such a major voice in the first place and that animates much of Grantland.
"We could not be more thrilled for him to bring those talents to HBO and to become a signature voice at the network, spanning the sports and pop culture landscapes," Michael Lombardo, HBO's president for programming, said in a statement.
While it looks like Simmons won't be writing — the talent that brought him from freelance contributor to major voice at ESPN — he won't be abandoning his roots completely. The New York Times reports that Simmons's deal will include video podcasts similar to the ones he did at Grantland.
The first time you heard that ABC was airing a new TV show starring the Muppets, you might have been concerned.
The first film in the rebooted Muppets franchise, 2011's The Muppets, was extremely good — okay, it was great — okay, I cry every time I watch it — but the follow-up, Muppets Most Wanted, more or less bombed. It was all too easy to wonder if the real magic behind the 2011 movie wasn't Disney at all but Muppet superfan Jason Segel.
I am walking you through my (and possibly your) anxieties, so that you can first confront and then release them, as they are all about to be assuaged.
ABC has released the 10-minute mini-pilot (known as a pilot presentation within the TV industry) for its new series, after fans who saw it at a Comic-Con screening essentially demanded it be placed on the Internet. Meet The Muppets:

The genius of the Muppets has always been rooted in a total command of comedy conventions. That's evident here, as well: The mockumentary style so popular in TV comedy thanks to shows such as The Office and Modern Family has many conventions of its own, and it's clear the team behind The Muppets has been studying up.
Because the team (which includes Big Bang Theory co-creator Bill Prady) understands those conventions so well — the first-person confessional, the camera pulling back at the end of a shot to reveal another character present — they're able to control the genre, rather than being controlled by it. It's not that they're subverting the mockumentary form — they just want to make sure you know they know what they're doing with it.
The actual series will bear little resemblance to the version displayed here — it will be set behind the scenes of a late-night talk show hosted by Miss Piggy, instead — but this presentation's confidence with the mockumentary form is enough to suggest all involved know what they're doing.
Will the new series reach the gloriously silly heights of The Muppet Show? I look forward to finding out.
Human life has always comprised a series of thankless, random tasks; what's great about this modern age is how those thankless, random tasks are now broken up by bite-size games you can play on your phone in between. But finding the right game is tough. It should be challenging but not too challenging, and it should offer a wide variety of gameplay options, without being so complicated that it becomes impossible to keep track of.

Enter Alphabear, the latest game from the reliable Spry Fox (the studio responsible for 2014's thoughtful, melancholic Road Not Taken). The premise is simple: Spell words using a series of tiles set before you, in the tradition of Scrabble or Boggle. With every turn, each letter "counts down" from an initial value between 3 and 10. If you run out of turns for any of your letters, they turn to stone, getting in the way.
Take a look at the game in action.

As you play, you'll unlock a series of cartoon bears (some might call them ... Alphabears), which will imbue you with certain special powers and abilities. One bear might give you more S's — the better to make plurals — while another might bestow upon you extra points as a bonus for spelling five-letter words. Once you score enough points, you'll be able to open up more stages and hopefully unlock another of the game's 67 total bears, or to unlock a new "level" of every bear you already have. (Each bear has 100 levels, so you could theoretically beat stages 6,700 times and still earn rewards.)
Some of Alphabear's stages are more sprawling free-for-alls, perfect for when you have a longer stretch of time to kill. Some are timed, perfect for when you only have a spare minute or two. And the challenges connected to each stage change with each day of the week — the letters W, O, R, and K will never appear on Sundays, for instance.
Also, you can send postcards of the bears to friends or Twitter followers. Good times!
The sort of postcard you can send to your friends to irritate them.
Spry Fox
Alphabear is charming and whimsical, which is one reason it's so addictive. But it's also surprisingly deep and strategic, with lots of great twists and turns. The difficulty ramps up substantially as you progress, but gradually enough that your gameplay will ramp up right along with it. And the game features enough modes that it's unlikely you'll ever encounter a situation where you don't have time to play a spare stage or two. The only problem is that Alphabear requires an internet or data connection, blocking it on, say, subway or plane rides.
Alphabear is available for free (with minor, optional cash payments to unlock certain options) on both iOS and Android.
In 2014, The New Republic — a respected political magazine — self-destructed. A new editor-in-chief was appointed, existing editor-in-chief Frank Foer was pushed out, and a majority of the publication's staffers, many of whom are excellent journalists, quit in response to Foer's ousting. They cited loyalty to Foer and expressed fear that the New Republic was in danger of ruining its own legacy.
At the time, you could have learned all this on Twitter, or eventually from The New Republic itself, but really, everyone in the media world knew they had to go to Gawker.
It wasn't because Gawker had the news first (the New Yorker's Ryan Lizza had tweeted a mass-resignation list), or because it had better reporting than other outlets. People went to Gawker because they could rely on the site to explain what had happened in the voice of a really judgmental, nosy friend — the kind of person you want to sit next to at a wedding, the kind of person who will tell you who's slept with whom and what kind of crazy diet the bride is on. The kind of person you want to hear talking about other people, but you never want talking about you.
"Never give a journalist an opportunity to Take A Stand. Unless maybe you want to clean house without all the messy firing," Gawker's then-editor-in-chief Max Read wrote about the New Republic's implosion. He was snarking on the smugness of the people who were leaving the place.
"New Republic brand ambassadors haven't been this self-satisfied since the magazine was publishing racist pseudoscience on its cover!" he added.
But this past week, Gawker's journalists Took A Stand. The site ran an awful story outing a married Condé Nast executive, and then the business side of Gawker Media overruled the site's editorial staff and took down the post.
Gawker had become the type of story Gawker reports on. A meltdown was brewing. On Monday, July 20, Read and executive editor Tommy Craggs resigned.
But behind this flashpoint is a broader struggle within the company: Gawker's founder and CEO, Nick Denton, believes the site's editorial ethos needs to change. Gawker's writers and editors disagree.
Read and Craggs's resignations are rooted in a controversial story about a Condé Nast executive who allegedly tried to pay a gay porn star to spend the night with him in a Chicago hotel.
On the evening of Thursday, July 16, Gawker writer Jordan Sargent published screenshots of several text messages that were allegedly exchanged between the executive and porn star Brodie Sinclair, a.k.a. Leif Derek Truitt. The messages contained discussions of payment and the logistics of the meeting, and later devolved into a form of extortion. Gawker's report alleged that Truitt pressured the executive to aid him with a housing dispute; he believed the executive could pull some political strings to help him out, and threatened to go to the press if he refused.
In publishing the story, Gawker played into Truitt's game of blackmail. Several journalists and media outlets quickly expressed outrage and disgust in response. As Gabriel Arana wrote for the Huffington Post:
The piece evinces a subtle homophobia, since part of what the reader is expected to do is recoil in horror at the thought of a married man hiring a gay escort. Beyond cruelly wrecking an innocent man’s life, the only thing Gawker and Sargent achieved was a temporary traffic boost. It’s a flagrant abuse of the incredible power those of us in the media have.
However, some Gawker journalists, including Read, defended the piece:

given the chance gawker will always report on married c-suite executives of major media companies fucking around on their wives


On Friday, July 17 — less than 24 hours after the story was published — Denton announced that it had been removed from the website. The managing partnership of Gawker Media had voted 4-2 in favor of the retraction.
"This was a decision I made as Founder and Publisher — guardian of the company mission — and the majority supported me in that decision," Denton wrote in a statement. "I was ashamed to have my name and Gawker's associated with a story on the private life of a closeted gay man who some felt had done nothing to warrant the attention."
At most news organizations, the way retractions typically work is that you see an editor's note explaining why a post has been changed or deleted, usually for editorial reasons (the post ended up not passing scrutiny) or legal ones (a court order demanded the post be removed). But that's not what happened at Gawker. After Denton announced that the story would be removed from the site, the Gawker Media editorial staff responded with a post saying that the original story was taken down against their wishes.
Media organizations including Gawker have editorial and business sides — and there's an understood delineation between the two; the idea is to avoid conflicts of interest and instances where business decisions (like acquiring or pleasing an advertiser) affect what the publication covers. Denton is not considered an editorial figure by Gawker staffers, and thus his move was seen as overreaching his boundaries.
"Today’s unprecedented breach of the firewall, in which business executives deleted an editorial post over the objections of the entire executive editorial staff, demonstrated exactly why we seek greater protection," Gawker's editorial staff wrote in a statement. The "greater protection" they're referring to stems from their June decision to unionize.
The staff added:
Our opinions on the post are not unanimous but we are united in objecting to editorial decisions being made by a majority of non-editorial managers. Disagreements about editorial judgment are matters to be resolved by editorial employees.
Staff writers from other Gawker Media websites, including Jezebel and Deadspin, also weighed in, clarifying that someone could disagree with Gawker's controversial post while also vehemently opposing Denton and the managing partners' decision to take it down.
"Many on the Jezebel staff were rubbed the wrong way by the piece Gawker ran last night," Jezebel writer Erin Gloria Ryan wrote. "[T]aking something down entirely after publishing — no matter how distasteful —is dishonest. It’s something we’ve reamed other sites for. And non-editorial employees should not be making editorial decisions that make us look like hypocrites."
What makes this situation unique is that readers aren't usually privy to the editorial, advertising, and managerial goings-on of a large media organization. Prior to this incident, there wasn't any visible sign of tension between Gawker's editorial and business sides. And while the fallout isn't a tick-tock, moment-by-moment account of what happened, it offers a lot more transparency than we generally see at most news organizations. Gawker in particular lives by a credo of putting its editorial decisions out in the open; for example, Denton as well as his staff have been relatively forthright about firings and resignations.
On Monday, July 20, editor-in-chief Read and executive editor Craggs officially resigned from Gawker Media over management's decision to remove the post without consulting the editorial staff. Craggs's account of why he left was searing:
No one told me the vote was actually happening, by the way. It just … happened, while I was on a plane to California. No one in editorial was informed that Nick had reached what he now calls the point of last resort; no one had explained what other resorts had been tried and had failed in the less than 24 hours between publication and takedown. The final count was 4-2 (with Heather’s nay joining mine, despite initial reports otherwise), and the message was immediately broadcast to the company and to its readers that the responsibility Nick had vested in the executive editor is in fact meaningless, that true power over editorial resides in the whims of the four cringing members of the managing partnership’s Fear and Money Caucus.
He also said that, behind the business side's decision was the fact that "advertisers such as Discover and BFGoodrich were either putting holds on their campaigns or pulling out entirely."
Read echoed Craggs's statement, explaining that he felt Gawker's business concerns had become more important than editorial independence:
Ultimately my decision is about the process by which this happened. If the partnership had not conducted some kind of utterly opaque backroom vote to delete it—if we had simply posted Nick’s note, as much I disagreed with and disliked it—I think this Monday would be very different.
For the most part, no. While some Gawker editors and writers relentlessly defended the outing story, it seems increasingly like the fracture point rather than the root of Gawker's problems.
Going by Craggs and Read's accounts of what happened, Gawker Media wants its content to be appealing to advertisers, and the company's management is strangling and tempering its editorial coverage to get to that point. There's a fear among some editorial staffers that Gawker is selling out and abandoning the fearlessness it's long been known for.
Gawker originally made its name as a publication with vinegar coursing through its veins; its writers pride themselves on honesty, calling bullshit when they see it. They aren't afraid to be mean or snarky by half in order to make a point. When these talented writers are at their best, they're not being mean for the sake of being mean — they're drawing attention to issues that deserve examination. Indeed, Gawker features editor Leah Finnegan recently wrote a piece criticizing media coverage of young news websites like Mic, Ozy, and Fusion.
"These are the words of some thirsty-ass motherfuckers who don’t really give a shit about 'journalism' or 'social justice' but clearly love being quoted in the Washington Post, a paper of their corrupt pop-pops," she wrote.
In retrospect — after Craggs and Read's resignations revealed their ire about business interfering with editorial —  Finnegan's piece about journalism and its importance, even if written in a prickly way, takes on a new meaning; she sounds like a ship's captain shouting orders while the boat sinks.
There are many reasons! Gawker is a successful media organization, stories about editorial ethics are generally of interest to reporters, and journalists are naturally nosy. Ergo, a lot of the chatter about Gawker is being driven by its peers in the media.

Most self-righteous load of bullshit I have ever read from a media person: http://t.co/F1Vdhm3Adz "decency or intellectual wherewithal"!


However, it'd be naive to say there isn't also a degree of schadenfreude or rubbernecking in play. Historically, Gawker's network of sites has been quick to lambaste media corrections (including Vox's) and to chronicle anything having to do with various struggles, layoffs, and ethics at other publications (see: Gawker's deep reporting on BuzzFeed's editorial standards and instances of deleting published posts). Now that Gawker has found itself in a similar situation, people want to see how the website responds.
Gawker, more or less, has become a story that Gawker would cover. And every journalist the site has ever made fun of or called out is tuning in to follow the story as it unfolds.

Regardless of ed-biz debate, fact that an editor is still defending this post on the merits is simply beyond belief: http://t.co/X094mQKUVg


While Gawker's editorial upheaval spins, the site is facing another problem. Gawker Media is currently involved in a heated $100 million legal battle with wrestler Hulk Hogan for publishing a sex tape featuring the legendary WWF star. If Gawker loses the lawsuit, it could force Denton to sell the company.
That lawsuit was weighing on the managing partners' minds. Denton specifically mentioned the Hogan lawsuit in his memo to the staff, stating that he didn't want the outing post attached to Gawker's name while they were headed into a trial about violating someone's privacy. Denton wrote:
The choice was a cruel one: a management override that would likely cause a beloved editorial leader to resign on principle; or a story that was pure poison to our reputation just as we go into the Hogan trial.
According to outgoing executive editor Craggs, he fears that Denton is positioning Gawker Media to be more like Vox Media, and Gawker more like Vox.com. New York Magazine's Daily Intelligencer blog reported on Craggs and Read's explanation of their departures to employees, where Craggs explained his belief that Denton is positioning Gawker to be more like Vox:
"This is Nick’s Reichstag fire," Craggs, Gawker Media's executive editor, told staffers. What he meant, a source told me, is that "this was the pretext by which he can Vox-ify Gawker."
In the piece, an unnamed source at Gawker confirmed Craggs's assertion. "Vox-ifying Gawker" sounds like a weird scientific experiment involving a chamber, a ray gun, and floating brains, but editorially it seems to imply that Denton wants to turn Gawker into a less snarky, more earnest site. And on the business side, Craggs's fear seems to be that Denton is positioning Gawker Media to be more like Vox Media, which hints at Denton wanting to sell a stake in the company and make it more attractive to outside investors.
Denton denied these allegations in an interview with Capital New York, promising "juicier" explainers than the ones you'll find on Vox. However, a brief survey of Gawker's "explainer" content reveals several pieces that focus on weather phenomena.
"I see Gawker Media occupying a space on the online media spectrum between a stolid Vox Media and a more anarchic Ratter; close to the edge, but not over it," Denton told Capital over Gchat.
The truth probably lies somewhere in the middle of Craggs and Denton's disparate assertions. But there is one underlying theme here, and that's the fight over Gawker's identity. Craggs has one idea of where the site needs to go, and Denton has a different one. And Gawker's shifting ideology is caught between the two.
Gawker has always been more than the stories it publishes. It's an attitude, an air, a mentality on how to approach the news of the day. This ethos doesn't always mesh well with the advertisers who keep the checks from bouncing.
Denton held an all-hands meeting on Monday, July 20, during which he reiterated that Gawker's outing of the Condé Nast executive was embarrassing and a complete misstep. Denton explained that Gawker's writers were adhering to a "maximalist interpretation of editorial freedom" instead of treating journalism like a privilege or a responsibility.
"This is the very, very worst version of the company," Denton told his staffers, referring to the post he'd ordered removed from the site. "This is not the company I built. … I can’t think of a single instance of an outing that was as egregious and poorly handled as this one."
In response to Craggs and Read's resignations, as well as Gawker Media's decision to pull the post, Gawker and Jezebel both went "dark" after Craggs and Read made their announcements and did not post any full stories for the rest of the day.
On Tuesday, Denton held a meeting with the editorial staff, some of whom tweeted what was happening. Finnegan offered a skeptical, detailed play-by-play of the topics the meeting covered:


Originally published on Grist.
In anticipation of Grist’s meat series, I turned to the person I know who has the most to say about meat: Hal Herzog, a man I also refer to as "dad." My father has spent 30 years studying the unique relationships people have with animals, and he’s the author of Some We Love, Some We Hate, Some We Eat: Why It’s So Hard To Think Straight About Animals. We spoke about vegetarianism, eating puppies, and why it’s more moral to eat blue whale than chicken. You can hear a podcast of our conversation above, or read an excerpt below.
Katie Herzog: Why are you interested in meat?
Hal Herzog: I’m interested in the moral complexities of the way we interact with other species, and one of the most morally complicated ways — in fact, the most morally complicated way, at least the one that has psychological implications — is the fact that we love them on the one hand and we love to eat them on the other. So to me this was the great conflict that we have between loving something and then engaging in an activity in which they inevitably suffer and die.

(Ashley Evans/Grist)
KH: Speaking of the moral complexities of meat, are people who are animal lovers or pet owners less likely to eat meat?
HH: No, not really. People who don’t eat meat are probably more likely to be pet owners, but it’s probably not true that there’s a large difference between people who eat meat in terms of whether they are pet owners or not.
KH: Why do we eat some animals and not others?
HH: That is really interesting, and it gets to the heart of the topic that I’m interested in, which is why we love some animals and why we dislike others. Some of the reasons are just stupid. At least from an objective point of view, if you go and look at biblical rules on meat eating, they are absolutely bizarre in terms of why it’s okay to eat a cow but not okay to eat a pig. It has to do with the shape of their hooves. Why is it okay to eat one type of insect but not another type of insect? It makes no logical sense at all.
Some people argue that the animals we eat have an ecological function. For example, some people have argued that some Jewish and Islamic cultures don’t eat pig because historically pigs compete with humans for food and they don’t want to keep a lot of pigs around because they eat the same things and they spread diseases like trichinosis. But I don’t think that’s a very good argument because there are other cultures that are very similar which do eat pigs.
"When I was a kid, the idea of eating raw fish would have just been hilarious"
I think most of our meat choices are determined by cultural habits and things that get simply passed down from generation to generation. When I was a kid, the idea of eating raw fish would have just been hilarious, and now the idea of eating raw fish is universally accepted. In my little town in western North Carolina, a real conservative place, we have a terrific little Japanese restaurant that people flock to to eat raw fish. Why is sushi popular now when it wasn’t 40 years ago? For the most part, our food choices are governed by the same sorts of fads and fashions that govern our taste in clothing, or whether you wear your baseball hat backward or forward, or what kind of a dog you get.
"They would say, 'This one’s going into the stew pot, and this one is gonna become part of our household'"
KH: So it’s basically meaningless?
HH: No. And that’s the difference between deciding what animals you eat and deciding what animals you want to live with as a dog. And the reason is that meat involves killing a creature. That is the great paradox. On the one hand, we’ve evolved, I think, to be empathetic with creatures and to anthropomorphize them. So you see an animal like a puppy and you see a little bit of yourself or your kid in that puppy. But on the other hand, you see a pig — and I think little pigs are adorable — and you want at one level to empathize with the pig but on another level you want to eat that pig. The same thing is true with puppies.

Culture can overcome our natural inclination sometimes. So, for example, we find it absolutely abhorrent, the idea of eating a puppy, but in China, Korea, Southeast Asia, people commonly eat puppies. Twenty-five million puppies or older dogs are eaten each year, and they are considered delicacies. And for most of human history, it’s likely that animals were more likely to be eaten than kept as pets. So that’s why meat is so deliciously morally complicated. It is a meaningless decision on one level but, on the other, it’s very meaningful.
KH: Speaking of eating dogs and puppies, in cultures where dogs are cuisine, do they also keep dogs as pets?
HH: In some of those cultures, yes. For example, the Sioux Indians in the United States — they would keep dogs as pets, and they would also eat dogs. When they had a litter of puppies, they would decide early on. They would take a look at the puppies when they were a couple weeks old and they would say, "This one’s going into the stew pot, and this one is gonna become part of our household."
Where we’re seeing a lot of interesting conflict now is places like Korea and Vietnam and China, where historically people have not kept dogs as pets very often. But these cultures like many Western ways. They like Coca-Cola and McDonald’s. Well, they’ve also glommed on to the American culture of pet-keeping. On the other hand, they still have this culture of eating dogs. So you have these really interesting cultural conflicts even within these cultures, and now a dog becomes what one researcher has called "an animal on the uncomfortable border." They’re part pet, but they’re part animals to be used, and in this case, to be eaten.
KH: Are they eating different breeds than they are keeping as pets?
HH: The Sioux Indians would keep dogs in the same litter. Some they would eat, some they would keep as pets. In Korea, you have a different phenomenon. The dogs are specially bred for the meat trade. They look, unfortunately, a lot like Old Yeller, so they are sort of cute from an American point of view. But they give them a different name: They are called nureongi. In the markets, apparently, they keep them in different-colored cages, so they have these pinkish cages that they keep them in and they are kept in a different part of the market than they keep dogs that are going to be in the pet trade.
So even here, we have this situation where the moral labeling and the moral category system really assuages us from the guilt that we feel from eating things. This is one of the really important things that I took away from my study of this — one of the most important factors in human moral thinking, especially about animals, is what category do we put things in? And this applies to other things, as well. Take, for example, the abortion debate. It’s about categories. Is a fetus a human being or is it not? Is a dog a pet or is a dog dinner?
KH: You mentioned that the dogs in Korea kept for pets have a different name than dogs used as food. Could you talk a little bit about how language reflects our relationships with meat and with animals?
HH: I can tell you what most people think, but I’m less certain of that than I used to be. What a lot of people say is that we animalize certain foods that we eat by giving them different names. So we don’t call barbecue "pig." We don’t say it’s cooked pig. We say it’s pork. We don’t say hamburger is made of cow; we say it’s made of beef. This situation breaks down, of course, when you get to animals that are lower on the phylogenetic scale. For instance, we call chicken "chicken." We don’t bother to change the language. Fish we call "fish," but for things like veal, creatures like that, we change the names.
"They renamed it the 'Chilean seabass,' and now we pay tons of money for it"
However, I used to think that was a universal principle, but I don’t think so anymore. I was talking to a friend of mine who speaks German and I was asking him what the Germans call pork and venison and things like that, and they don’t bother with that. Pork is called pig flesh. Beef is called cow flesh. Venison is called deer flesh. The same thing is true in China. So they don’t bother with that. I think the category of meat definitely serves as a moral distancing factor, but I’m not sure the specific thing does.
Now, labels can also make a type of meat seem more tasty. And the classic example of that is the Patagonia toothfish. It’s this horrible-looking creature found off the coast of Chile. It’s a really ugly-looking fish. It has big gummy-looking eyes and giant teeth and a sort of yellow complexion. It’s not very attractive. However, an American food marketing guy was down there and saw these guys throwing away these fish and said, "What are they?" They said, "Patagonian toothfish. Nobody wants to eat them." And he tasted it and said, "That tasted pretty good." It was a sort of mild fish that chefs like because it takes up different flavors, and he thought you maybe could sell it in the United States, but he had to rename it. And so they renamed it the "Chilean seabass," and now we pay tons of money for it. Now, this has not been good for the Patagonian toothfish, because they’ve almost become extinct because of overfishing of the identical creature, the Chilean seabass.
KH: I want to talk about vegetarians. Have campaigns like PETA, the PETA celebrity campaign, and Meatless Mondays, done anything to actually reduce meat consumption in the United States?
HH: Meat consumption in the United States has gone down slightly in the last 10 years, but very slightly. The publication of Peter Singer’s very influential book Animal Liberation, in 1975, really marks the start of the modern animal rights movement. He made a very powerful case against eating meat, on environmental grounds, moral grounds, and grounds of suffering and health. So you would think that meat consumption would have gone down in the US since 1975. Oh, no. Then we ate, I think, about 170 pounds per capita per year. We now eat approximately 240 pounds of meat per capita per year. When he wrote the book, about 3 billion animals were killed per year. Now about 10 billion animals are killed per year.
"Eating a whale is more moral than eating beef"
Furthermore, the number of true vegetarians is incredibly small. Most people think it’s big, but it’s not. The number of people who say they are vegetarians is substantial, but 60 to 70 to 80 percent of them eat meat regularly. So there’s a lot of people not telling the truth about their meat consumption, and a number of studies have shown this. If you actually look at the proportion of Americans who are vegetarians, it’s hovered between 2 and 4 percent, really, for the last 30 or 40 years. So the vast majority of Americans continue to eat meat in spite of the strong arguments against it on moral, health, and environmental grounds. It’s the single biggest failure of the animal rights movement.
KH: Was there anything that surprised you in your research?
HH: The bottom line is that meat is disgusting. Not only do we identify with the creatures that we’re eating, but once it comes down to it, meat is a bloody mess. What the food industry has done is go to great lengths to de-animalize meat, and they’ve done that very successfully. Very few people buy chicken carcasses anymore at a grocery store. What they buy is a chicken tender, which is in styrofoam and doesn’t look like meat. It’s cold, it’s white, it’s not bloody, it does not look like meat. It looks like a piece of paper. The meat industry has gone to great lengths to let you forget that that chunk of chicken that you’re putting in your mouth is actually a creature that used to go cluck cluck cluck cluck.
There’s another irony here — let me ask you a question, Katie. From a moral point of view, if you had a choice between eating a Big Mac or a Chicken McNugget, what would be the most moral thing to eat in terms of suffering?
KH: A Big Mac or a chicken nugget? I mean, I suppose the Big Mac would be worse because cows seems more sentient than chickens, despite the fact that chickens are probably treated worse. I put more value on a cow’s life than a chicken’s.
HH: That’s why you’re completely wrong. You have to remember that this is the moral calculus of utilitarianism, which means basically that if you are a sentient animal, you count in the moral calculus. Well, there are 280 — and I did the math on this — there are 280 chickens in a cow. So in other words, to kill one cow, you take one life. To get the equivalent amount of animal protein, you have to kill 280 chickens. Now, by that logic, the animal of choice for animal activists to eat would be a blue whale, because there are 80,000 chicken souls to make up the soul of one blue whale. I contacted Ingrid Newkirk herself, the head of PETA, and asked her if she would agree with me on that, and she said, "Absolutely." She said if an animal rights activist is going to eat meat, they should eat whales. Eat more whales. So that’s one of the ironies is that beef is more moral than chicken, eating a whale is more moral than eating beef.
Grist is a nonprofit news site that uses humor to shine a light on big green issues. Get their email newsletter here, and follow them on Facebook and Twitter.
This post is part of Vox's ongoing coverage of Marvel and all its properties. Before you dig in, catch up on our reviews and discussions of Ant-Man, Avengers: Age of Ultron, and the studio's other movies to date.
I owe Marvel an apology.
Two years ago, when the company announced it was moving forward with an Ant-Man movie, I rolled my eyes and let out one of my best "get a load of this guy" sighs. I was convinced that Ant-Man was the result of Marvel freebasing hubris. The company, which had recently released one of the greatest superhero films ever made, clearly believed it could do no wrong and was now devoting an entire film to one of the most aggravating and disappointing Avengers in comic book history.

Even the lifeless husk of meat known as the Sentry was a better Avenger than Ant-Man. If the Avengers were an NBA team, Ant-Man would be Kendrick Perkins — a man who would actually cost you points every minute he is on the floor. In Marvel's comics, there are times when the character induces an urge to drive a boat full of golden retriever pups into the treacherous arms of a kraken and down to their submarine graves (see: Avengers No. 213, where Ant-Man builds a dangerous, unstoppable robot  for the sole purpose of redeeming himself with the Avengers).
Prior to Ant-Man's release, I frequently expressed my doubts about the guy, questioning everything from his abusive relationship with his wife to his corny, utterly idiotic ideas. Even Marvel editors have called him a failure. I was prepared to bury Marvel in an Ant-Man casket.
And then the company proved me wrong, delivering a movie with the same brilliant magic as many of its best films that reminded me of what makes Marvel so great.
My initial hesitation with Ant-Man was rooted in the fact that the character's source material isn't very rich. Hank Pym, the original Ant-Man, is burdened with an abrasive history that involves multiple failures, dozens of crooked, overly complicated schemes, and ambitions that outweigh his superpowers. That makes for an unlikable movie hero.
And Marvel, to my surprise, didn't shy away from that.
Pym's (Michael Douglas) convoluted scheme to loop in Scott Lang (Paul Rudd) to do his bidding instead of his more-than-capable daughter, Hope (Evangeline Lilly), is inefficient. Hope could have easily taken out Darren Cross, but that would have been too easy.
Easy isn't Pym's style. Pym is a jerk. We're supposed to empathize with Hope's frustration. And though Hope doesn't exist in the main Marvel comic book universe, the movie's storyline really gives us a taste of Pym's hard-headed and prickly personality without delving into the uglier parts of his comics-based past.
Hank and Hope's relationship in the film provides a gateway into and a contrast to Scott Lang's relationship with his daughter, Cassie (Abby Ryder Fortson). Marvel stays close to Scott's comic roots, portraying him as a man who will do anything for his daughter — including breaking the law. The difference is that in the comics, Cassie has a heart condition (with expensive treatments) that serves as the impetus for Scott Lang's law-breaking ways; in the movie, Scott can't see Cassie because of a divorce and defaulting on child support.
Thanks in large part to Fortson being an absolute delight, Marvel was able to really deliver on Scott Lang's character, so much so that I kinda hope Scott and Cassie will get a movie of their own.
Ant-Man only made $58 million in its opening weekend, the second-lowest domestic total for a Marvel movie to date. To be crystal clear, $58 million is a decent showing at the box office for any film that isn't a Marvel movie, but it's nowhere near what the company is used to. I have to wonder how much Ant-Man's release has been affected by Marvel fatigue, the title character's general lack of renown, and the cinematic onslaught of this summer's film slate (which includes Jurassic World,Avengers: Age of Ultron, Inside Out, Minions, Trainwreck, and more). There's also the possibility that Ant-Man could gain momentum, like 2014's Guardians of the Galaxy did, with strong word-of-mouth reviews.
What I'm hoping is that Marvel won't see Ant-Man's $58 million opening weekend as a bust. The movie is so much fun (the suitcase fight!) and so imaginative (the way director Peyton Reed plays with size and scale in his action sequences!) in a way that I haven't seen Marvel display since the first Iron Man movie. What Ant-Man does in its last 30 minutes is fantastic.
It would be an utter shame for Marvel to interpret the movie's lackluster box office as a sign that the risk it took didn't work.
Dear Marvel,
I am sorry I thought Ant-Man was a terrible idea. You were right, and I was so very wrong. I really thought I'd be able to plant my flag in what was supposed to be a garbage fire of a film and declare Marvel dead.
Then you put me in a headlock and showed me the best half-hour of a comic book movie I've seen this year, daring me to find some kind of fault in its scrappy spirit. Ant-Man wasn't perfect, but I can't recall any instance in recent memory where I felt more joy at the movies than I did during its last act.
Please take my money and do great things with Black Panther and Captain Marvel.
I've never been happy to be so wrong,
Alex
Here's a question I've heard quite often since Mad Men ended its seven-season run in May 2015: Just what, if anything, is supposed to fill the void left by that tremendous series?

Rating
It's not an easy one to answer! Mad Men was one of the best shows in TV history, doing so many different things so very well that it was possible for lots of different types of viewers to watch it for entirely different characters, storylines, or reasons and still find lots to love. It was an experimental, adventurous drama, telling deeply existential stories through both its scripts and its visuals. Thus, it's a hard show to replace.
To that end, allow me to suggest an animated sitcom about a horse as your perfect Mad Men stand-in.

This might sound ridiculous, but I promise it's not. After a sometimes messy first season, Netflix's BoJack Horseman has found its footing beautifully in season two, earning the title of not just the streaming service's best show, but of one of television's best shows. It's a strange, sad trip through the dark underbelly of fame, mixed with some of the most brilliant, caustic social commentary out there. And did I mention it's funny? Sometimes bitterly so, with jokes that leave you tearing up as much as laughing.
All of those characteristics should bring to mind AMC's esteemed advertising drama. But BoJack and Mad Men have something else in common, too: At their core, both shows are about the impossibility of happiness. And if you don't believe me, check out BoJack's second-season poster. How Mad Men is that?
Here are five areas where the two shows overlap in ways that speak to their incredible quality.
Mild spoilers for seasons one and two follow.
BoJack (Will Arnett) ends up dating a network executive owl voiced by Lisa Kudrow.
Netflix
Don Draper was an advertising man who wanted to sell the world a version of the happiness he couldn't feel. He was motivated by visions of the life he'd never quite led, failing to realize that attaining the perfect surface wasn't the solution he sought. The depths of his unhappiness were rooted in himself.
In his own way, BoJack Horseman (Will Arnett) confronts the same problems. He's a rich and famous actor, the star of a 1980s and '90s sitcom called Horsin' Around. (Netflix released an episode of this sitcom as a "Christmas special" for BoJack in 2014, if you want a mostly unadulterated look at it.) BoJack's work has brought happiness to other people, but he doesn't feel happy. In fact, he probably suffers from crippling, chronic depression (though the show never puts it exactly that way), something that haunts him and prevents him from feeling fulfilled.

And just as Don Draper had a tendency to tear down the world around him when something tiny didn't go his way, BoJack will destroy himself and others for the pettiest of reasons. He's not a very good man (or horse, I suppose, as BoJack lives in a world where bipedal animals live and work alongside humans), driven by bitterness and resentment and anomie, but he is intensely relatable, just as Don was.
BoJack is all of the worst things we fear about ourselves, in the form of a TV character
He's all of the worst things we fear about ourselves, in the form of a TV character. And, crucially, he experiences occasional flashes of insight, moments when he understands the problem in his life is him, not the place he lives in or the company he keeps. He just lacks the wherewithal to actually confront his demons. Indeed, when it comes time to do so, he usually runs away from them.
Sounds a lot like an ad man we used to know.
Mr. Peanutbutter (Paul F. Tompkins), Princess Caroline (Amy Sedaris), and Henry Winkler (as himself) attend the funeral of a friend. It's one of the ways BoJack turns sitcom situations into dramatic fodder.
Netflix
Mad Men often delivered moments of searing insight or utter devastation, but it was also, frequently, tremendously funny. That humor kept us watching, setting us up for the show to hit us with intense, wounded profundity.
By posing as a lightweight comedy, BoJack bought itself room to be all the more crushing
The same is true of BoJack, but in reverse. When the series debuted, many critics (including myself) wrote it off as yet another ankle-deep Hollywood satire, about as shrewd an exploration of the pitfalls of fame as any number of other lacking adult-skewing sitcoms on networks like Adult Swim and FX. Initially, it seemed weird for the sake of being weird, and in the episodes Netflix sent to critics, it didn't really bother trying to transcend those limitations.
But as season one progressed, BoJack's satirical intentions snapped into clearer focus. It was a Hollywood satire, sure, but it was also a dark drama about a man realizing how much damage and pain he had caused over the course of his life. By posing as a lightweight comedy for so much of its running time, BoJack bought itself room to be all the more crushing when it wanted to be.
While it never quite found a balance between humor and heartbreak in season one, BoJack has brilliantly solved that problem in season two, where the jokes are stronger and the heavier moments are even darker. There are scenes in season two when BoJack wants to do the right thing, and he tries to do it and tries to do it and tries to do it, but he ultimately falls into the easy comfort of doing the wrong thing, of returning to old habits and routines.
And that, consequently, pushes the Hollywood satire to new levels. Seen through the prism of BoJack's journey, the world of show business becomes another place where "business as usual" tends to trump what would actually be helpful or fulfilling for, well, anyone.
Princess Carolyn, BoJack, and Diane (Alison Brie) go on a book tour that only results in Diane making headlines.
Netflix
On some level, Mad Men was always about the rise of women in the workplace and the feminist revolution that led to the growing acceptance of women as individuals and not extensions of the men in their lives. Similarly, BoJack tells a series of stories about women struggling to carve out niches in the show business economy.
In particular, the seventh episode of season two, "Hank After Dark," is one of the best TV episodes ever crafted about the tightrope women are forced to walk between the desires of other people in their lives (often men) and what they know to be right. It starts out as a clever sendup of the sexual misconduct allegations that many women have leveled against Bill Cosby, with beloved entertainer Hank Hippopalous (a hippo) accused of having done something horrific to eight of his former assistants.
The story becomes less about what Hank is said to have done and more about how the Hollywood system grinds down women
But the story twists about halfway through, becoming less about what Hank is said to have done (which is never elucidated) and more about how the Hollywood system is structured to protect men in power and grind down women who accuse them of anything. BoJack's friend Diane (Alison Brie), who ghostwrote his memoir in season one, sets out to uncover the truth about Hank, but what she finds is that so few people want to hear it that they'd rather attack her for even asking questions than think anything bad about him. The episode's final moments are quietly agonizing.
BoJack goes to visit his old friend Charlotte (Olivia Wilde) in a visually impressive episode.
Netflix
Mad Men was one of the best directed and artfully conceived programs in TV history, a crisp, beautiful show that revealed just as much through its outward appearance as it did through its layered scripts.
The show's visual design offers plenty of treats for the eyes
As a minimally animated show teeming with animal puns, BoJack can't boast the same level of visual panache, but it is frequently audacious in terms of its design. In particular, season two's 11th episode, "Escape from L.A.," imagines a fictional New Mexico town that BoJack disappears to when his career isn't going how he hoped it would. (Amusingly, Mad Men's second season also featured an 11th episode where the protagonist escaped to another locale entirely in response to his general dissatisfaction.)
The desert backgrounds of "Escape from L.A." are filled with muted color, and the episode's climax — which features softly glowing balloons drifting through the sky and an eventual montage of BoJack's return to California as the setting sun throws him into silhouette — is striking in how its visual qualities reflect the melancholy being felt by every single character onscreen. The animation might not be extraordinarily complex or complicated, but the show's visual design still offers plenty of treats for the eyes.
Struggles in the marriage of Mr. Peanutbutter and Diane take up a good portion of the second season.
Netflix
It was possible to simply sit back and let Mad Men flow over you as a series of surface-level pleasures. The sets and costumes and general look of the show were so potent that they could be enjoyed in and of themselves. But there was always so much going on behind Mad Men's exterior, so much questioning of the human condition and ruminating on the meaning of life, that the deeper viewers dug, the more rewarded they would be.
Similarly, if you merely want to watch a goofy comedy brimming with gags about animals who act like people, well, BoJack will oblige. But if you want to go further than that, there's plenty there to discuss. This is a series about a bunch of characters who all might suffer from depression but never seem able to put their fingers on what ails them (or simply don't want to put their fingers on what ails them), but it's also a series about how the feeling of being broken helps them bond.
BoJack suggests this type of relationship is both a blessing and a curse
We often watch TV to witness those bonds being formed, for the way incomplete characters can make each other whole simply by existing in proximity to each other. What's so daring about BoJack is the way it suggests that this type of relationship is both a blessing and a curse. Sometimes, when you're in a depressive state, what you need is someone with whom to wallow. But at other times, what you need is someone to call you on your shit. On BoJack Horseman, these two states of being are occasionally one and the same, and the result is both thrilling and dangerous.
Both seasons of BoJack Horseman are currently streaming on Netflix.
Amy Schumer's Trainwreck isn't what you might expect it to be.
Scripted by and starring the comedian, the movie has been sold as a film about a young woman named Amy (played by Schumer) who's unafraid to separate romance from monogamy and live without paying mind to the penalties and scolding that society is ready to dole out. The film's posters and trailers suggest the film is an enthusiastic look at this woman's shockingly messy life, inviting us to bear witness as it careens out of control without apology and possibly finds its own path to a happily ever after.
Rating
But that's not at all what Trainwreck is or what it wants to be. At its core, the movie is same type of romantic comedy we thought it might subvert.
"What’s wrong with you that you would want to go out with me?" Amy asks Dr. Aaron Conners (Bill Hader), the object of her affection and Trainwreck's terminal destination. The true answer is "nothing," of course, and once Amy and Aaron are a pair, there's no issue they can't fix. Ultimately, the movie's most lustful fantasy involves a healthy, sober life in the suburbs and toy sailboats on a pond.
This sense of safety and conventionality becomes Trainwreck's most surprising element.
The film doesn't contain the kind of writing from Schumer that we're familiar with from her Comedy Central TV series, Inside Amy Schumer, or her standup routines. It doesn't star the same Schumer character we're used to seeing in most of her work. While there are flashes of the clever satire and dazzling raunch that has made Schumer a star —  Tilda Swinton's fantastic turn as a maniacal men's magazine editor is a highlight — as a whole, Trainwreck is glossier, sweeter, and a bit more self-conscious than Schumer's typical material. How much of that is owed to director Judd Apatow is debatable.
But even though Trainwreck is a rom-com that's seemingly at odds with its poster girl's persona, it still succeeds — there's just never any danger of it actually going off the rails.

(Universal)
For large swaths of the movie, Trainwreck operates like a satire, a poke aimed at films like The Devil Wears Prada, Confessions of a Shopaholic, and anything Katherine Heigl has ever been in. Like many heroines of mid-2000s rom-coms, Amy works at a magazine and lives in New York City, where she inhabits an illogically spacious apartment. But the men's magazine in question is S'Nuff, which publishes articles like "Ugliest Celebrity Kids Under 6" and "You’re Not Gay, She’s Boring"; Amy's apartment easily starts to feel claustrophobic once you see Amy and Aaron try to share the space; and even though Amy resides in a city of millions, her only true friend is the homeless man outside her building.
To navigate this less-than-ideal scenario, she lets off steam the way guys in Apatow's bromedies usually do. She drinks, she has casual sex (but never spends the night), she smokes pot, and she sometimes goes to the movies with her semifreddo boyfriend Steven (played by the fantastic John Cena). This all runs against the grain of her younger sister, Kim (Brie Larson), who has set up shop with her husband — a crewneck sweater that's taken human form — and sensitive stepson in the suburbs. And Amy feels fine about her place in all of this until she meets Dr. Conners, the subject of a hit piece she's been commissioned to write.
The easy joke here is to paint Kim's life as bleak, and Schumer mercilessly goes for it — needling Kim about the lack of sex and fun she's having. Everyone in the city knows someone who's living Kim's life in the 'burbs. But Schumer points the sword at Amy, too, spearing the idea that the city will make your dreams come true.
But not everything in Trainwreck feels like satire. The back stretch of the movie skews saccharine.
Slowly and slyly, the movie begins to reveal that Kim's life with kids isn't actually the hell we think it is, until Amy starts realizing — in large part due to a monogamous relationship with Aaron — that this is what she wants and that she'll have to clean up her life to get it to this point.
That message — that true love is better than a life alone — isn't necessarily wrong, but it's at odds with the Schumer we know. For fans of Schumer's wit and comedy, this is a bit of a letdown.
What makes Schumer special is that she isn't afraid of pointing fingers at everyone when she's making her points about sexism, or sex, or the sexism of sex. But in Trainwreck, there are multiple times when the dust settles with everyone pointing their fingers at Amy.
Schumer's star has grown because she's more progressive than this. She's willing to punch up at the way women are pigeonholed by society, how their looks are picked over again and again, and how women are taught to be their own worst enemies. Making these two women's lives — the messy floozy or the earnest housewife — the only options in the movie (with Kim's being the better option), and making Amy choose,  is limiting and sounds like something Schumer would rage against rather than write.
It's impossible to watch Trainwreck and not think of Schumer's pricklier work, which is unfair. By a lot of standards, what Schumer is writing and acting through — the ways men are objectified, the sex-positive moments, the physical comedy —  here is more progressive than what we've seen from romantic comedy genre, but it pales in comparison to what we expect and what fans would want out of Schumer.

(Universal)
While the politics of Trainwreck are endlessly debatable, the quality of humor that its supporting cast possesses is not. This film was incredibly cast, and Schumer gives them — yes, LeBron James is very good — plenty to work with.
Tilda Swinton is marvelous as Amy's demonic editor Dianna. Dianna is a tweak on Miranda Priestly from The Devil Wears Prada, more Devil, less Prada. Swinton is barely recognizable under the patina of a glimmering spray tan, and really leans into her shallow taskmaster character. And Amy's coworkers at S'Nuff Nikki (Vanessa Bayer), Bryson (Randall Park), and Schultz (Jon Glaser) are an affable rogues' gallery of every terrible person you've ever shared an office with — which allows Swinton to shine even brighter.
The closer you get to Amy's family, the darker the stories get. Her father, Gordon (Colin Quinn), is suffering from multiple sclerosis, but is still the casually racist asshole who cheated on Amy's mother and told his daughters not to believe in monogamy. It's tough stuff for Quinn, who handles the role with a special grace. Amy loves him, but is clear-eyed — as much as one can be with your dad — about his faults. Gordon's story is a bit rushed, but there's enough there to recognize that Schumer's humor can take us to sad, soulful places.
And while Schumer and Hader are disarming and fulfill their duties as our charming leads, it feels like Schumer was most comfortable when she wasn't writing for herself. Her comedy on Inside is wrapped around a buffoonish, disposable version of her. It's seppuku comedy, allowing her to call out racism, sexism, injustice, etc. by sacrificing herself. But Trainwreck's Amy is almost too close to the real Amy (Schumer's real-life dad is named Gordon and also has MS), and I wonder if that's part of the reason the best-written stuff in the movie is given to anyone who isn't Amy.
Ultimately, Trainwreck isn't what it was sold as. Schumer, at times, doesn't feel like the Schumer we think we know. And there are several points the movie sure as hell doesn't feel like the satire it wants to be. However, Trainwreck it isn't a disaster or an accident — it's anything and everything but.
"Other Lives," the fifth episode of True Detective's second season, is a paradox.
On almost every level, it's the season's strongest hour. The performances feel on point. The dialogue has its overwrought moments but mostly stays in line. The storytelling feels more directed than it has all season long, with the characters finally making some progress in tying together the season's many plot threads, improbable though the connections may be.

But it's also the episode that showed me just how little I gave a damn about any of this. Stories, on some level, are about giving those who consume them a reason to care, and True Detective, season two, has been lousy at that. Indeed, it's fallen into a very common trap for acclaimed shows in their second seasons — it assumes that because we were on board for season one, we'll be on board for season two, and it doesn't have to do the necessary work of creating an engaging story, characters, or setting.
The problem is only compounded by the fact that this is, effectively, a completely different show from season one. A show with continuing characters can buy some leeway based on our existing affection for those characters (see: Hannibal, this season). True Detective is essentially stuck by the bad choices it made back in the first few episodes.
Let's break down the episode, thread by thread, to see what I mean.
Ray's all, "Yo, man, we need to talk."
HBO
For the most part, "Other Lives" is constructed atop a series of revelations that should be devastating. Indeed, if you are engaged in this season's storytelling, they probably were devastating. The action picks up a couple of months after the end of the last episode, with Ray working as security for Frank, leaving his old job in the dust.
But for me, part of the problem has been that this season has overplayed its hand in almost every way. One of the biggest overplays has been in the back-story of Ray Velcoro, especially when it comes to the true parentage of his son and the true identity of his wife's rapist. In this week's episode, Ray learns that Frank almost certainly gave him the identity of the wrong man when Ray went looking for said rapist, and while it comes as a shock to him, the show has all but telegraphed this for viewers.

Ray, in some ways, feels like a giant, swirling collection of plot ends that almost connect, almost spark. His back-story is one of the foremost examples of this, but so is the way that he seems trapped by his own masculine expectations. He doesn't know how to deal with his son or ex-wife, because he thinks of himself as a Man (with a capital M). The show sometimes seems to be gently chastising him for this, but then there are times (as when he beats the hell out of Dr. Pitlor) when being a capital-M Man is the only thing that will get results.
Ray feels less like a coherent character than a variety of unformed plot devices
Season two assumes we'll be into this simply because it's one of the major themes of the whole series. And Colin Farrell is really giving it his all at making sense of this character's many loose ends. But it's hard to hook into whatever the show is trying to do with Ray because he feels less like a coherent character than a variety of unformed plot devices.
There are individual scenes (especially with Ani) where Ray begins to make sense, sort of, but they are few and far between. Instead, he feels like a bunch of writing prompts designed to create a vivid character that haven't gone anywhere.
Frank's as baffled by what's going on with him as we are.
HBO
Of all of season two's plots, the one that both fans and critics of the season seem least interested in is Frank's. Much of this has been laid at the feet of Vince Vaughn, who occasionally struggles with Nic Pizzolatto's stylized dialogue. But just as much should be laid at the feet of how much plot the story is trying to haul around with it — and how disconnected that plot is from literally everything else that's happening.
The Frank plot is disconnected from literally everything else that's happening
I'm sure that somewhere along the line, the land deals Caspere was working on (which Frank sunk a ton of money into) will hook up with the "hooker parties" and secret societies the show is spinning into its A-story. But the thwarted attempts of Frank to go legitimate and his backsliding into his old criminal dealings have nothing to do with this and rely almost entirely on the show getting us to care about whether Frank accomplishes those tasks.
But that assumes, from the get-go, that Frank is a character of interest and intrigue, and the first four episodes of the season have simply done nothing to get us to hook into anything he's doing. Frank's aversion to adoption (which he maybe lets go of in this episode), for instance, makes a kind of intellectual sense, but it rarely makes emotional sense, because the entirety of our understanding of Frank has come in long, tortured monologues delivered to other people. And, well, that comes back to Vaughn's problems with Pizzolatto's dialogue. It's a vicious cycle.
Ani probably would love to take a few more beach days.
HBO
If any character here has been a "success," more or less, it's Ani, who has the most cohesive back-story, even if it's the most obvious back-story. Yeah, there's nothing surprising in the idea of Ani having a hippie father and becoming a police officer as an act of rebellion (with hints that there may be some sort of abuse in her past). But there's a coherent world-view here, one that she's expressed in illuminating fashion a handful of times (most notably when explaining why she carries those knives around).
The sins of the present become ways for Ani to fix whatever horrors lie in her past
Thus, even though she's been demoted, Ani is the character still most interested in solving the murder of Ben Caspere, rather than writing it off as something that happened thanks to random drug violence. Her indefatigable nature means that she actually gets somewhere, finding a cabin where somebody was obviously murdered and starting to piece together the gigantic puzzle the season has assembled. And that makes her the character easiest to find intriguing.
What's notable here is that Ani's back-story is so minimal (and even "typical") that it's mostly there to inform why she does the things she does. Instead of being defined by her back-story, she's trying to transcend it. The sins of the present become ways to fix whatever horrors lie in her past — which puts her roughly in line with season one's Rust and Marty, who had very similar character set-ups (to say nothing of almost every other detective story hero ever).
Paul is very angry. Paul is also sort of superfluous, no?
HBO
It's hard to say exactly why Paul is even in the show. Yeah, the stuff with his deeply repressed homosexuality is fitfully interesting, and his extreme prowess in the big shootout made for some cool moments. But he largely feels like he spends every scene he's in in the shadow of either Ray or Ani, depending on which character he's been hanging around with most often.
That comes to a head in tonight's scenes with Paul's mother and fiancee, which are largely expository jumbles, designed to fill in the back-stories of characters we don't really know (like his fiancee's mother) or Paul himself, whom we're already well acquainted with.
Paul's easily the most extraneous character of the main four
I don't think Paul's the "problem" with the season, but he's easily the most extraneous character of the main four. Without him, would the frustrating stories of Ray and Frank have more room to breathe? Or without either Ray or Frank, would Paul feel less like a repeat of the others? It's hard to say, but I've largely tuned out of whatever's up with him.
Something awful happened here.
HBO
If there's one thing Pizzolatto knows how to write, it's a complicated crime story with a massive, unbreachable conspiracy at its center. And in these terms, season two of True Detective is doing pretty well! The more we learn about what's going on with the secret groups and mysteries of the season, the more the various pieces of the puzzle start to snap into place in semi-satisfying fashion. Yeah, it all feels a little derivative of season one, but maybe there's a reason for that.
The show hopes we care about what's happening simply because it's True Detective, not because it's done the work of making us care
But there's a massive, massive problem here: the stakes are, again, mostly assumed. The show hopes we care about what's happening simply because it's True Detective, not because it's done the work of making us care. (This is the problem of the season in a nutshell.) What, exactly, will happen if the detectives don't succeed in finding Caspere's killer? So far as we can tell, not much, outside of more murders of more people we've never even seen on screen. Oh, and maybe a high-speed rail corridor deal will fall through? Hard to say.
To me, it feels like the show is coasting off of our assumed affection for it and/or the detective fiction genre and it hasn't put in the hard work necessary to get us invested in the story. But your experiences here may be different. Maybe you'll look at all of the above and heartily disagree. Maybe you deeply care about all of these things. But if that's the case, I'd love to know why.  Please jump down into comments and tell me!
In the meantime, watch out for men wearing crow masks. They're up to no good.
Previous episode
I honestly don't know if I can summarize my feelings on "Digestivo," the seventh episode of Hannibal's third season, any better than TV critic Libby Hill, with whom I share a television and marriage license (in rough order of importance) did on Twitter, after we finished watching the episode. So I'll let her start this off.

A few episodes ago, I’d been concerned that #Hannibal was disappearing up its own ass...



…but now it’s completed the journey and come out the other side a twisted, shit-covered, amazing baby.


What Hill says holds a lot of merit. There can be a lot of value in delaying audience gratification; when done exquisitely well, it can be among the greatest elements in of all fiction. But it's so, so hard to do well, and I'd say the first five episodes of Hannibal's third season missed the mark more often than episodes of the show typically do, and because of that delay.
But in "Dolce" (the sixth episode, which I didn't write about) and "Digestivo," Hannibal isn't just back on track and giving the audience what it wants. It has brutally reclaimed the title of TV's most "holy shit, did you see that!" show from previous contender for the throne, Fortitude. And Fortitude involved people cutting other people open and throwing up in their abdominal cavities, so Hannibal must be upping its game.
Let's look at nine ways Hannibal kicked it into high gear and once again became TV's most beautiful celebration of all that is crazycakes bananapants in this world.
Complete with a pig-themed mobile, no less.
NBC
I should probably start by discussing the tortured, beautiful, deeply emotional relationship between Will Graham and Hannibal Lecter, but I just can't.
Did you see that pig? Did you see that it was pregnant with the incestuous spawn of Mason and Margot Verger? All cooked up in a test tube in one of Mason's whacked-out experiments?
Have you ever seen anything like that on TV before? I certainly haven't. Mercifully for the child, it was stillborn, and thus will not grow up with the specter of the knowledge of either its monstrous conception or gestation just looming in the ether, waiting to be discovered.
And now I'm going to repeat that a pig was pregnant with a human fetus and leave you to think about that.
At the outer limits of mad science. (Shudder.)
NBC
Hannibal gets to play the hero, but nobody throws him a ticker tape parade.
NBC
One of the reasons "Digestivo" is season three's best episode so far is that it eschews Hannibal's dream logic in favor of very straightforward plotting, mostly involving the question of how Will is going to escape the latest awful predicament he's ended up in — in this case, imprisonment at the hands of Mason Verger, who plans to take his face and wear it while he devours Hannibal piece by piece. (We'll get to how ridiculous and funny this is in a moment.)
The only way to save Will, at least from Alana's perspective, is to unleash Hannibal as a sort of cyclone of vengeance upon Will's captor. In this moment, Hannibal enjoys an incredibly badass hero shot, of all things:
Where have all the good men gone, and where are all the gods?
NBC
Hannibal, arriving in the nick of time, alters Mason's plan by separating Cordell's face from his head and forcing Mason to wear that, instead; Hannibal then absconds with Will, carrying him across the snowy wastes like a knight rescuing the damsel in distress. I'll discuss this episode's incredibly fun gender inversions below, but this shot speaks for itself:
The serial killer, reimagined as knight in shining armor.
NBC
Just another pig, all locked up tight.
NBC
I mean ...
Only the rarest of TV shows will dissolve to a shot of an eel.
NBC
One of the remarkable things about "Digestivo" is how often it places women in positions of power. Hannibal has a ... spotty record with its female characters, so it's terrific fun to see them turning the tables early and often in this episode. At various points, every single one of the hour's three major female players — Alana, Margot, and Chiyoh — is put in the position of determining a man's fate, and they make very different decisions based on whom they're choosing to save or kill.
In the case of Mason Verger, it doesn't take Alana and Margot very long to decide that he should die via the eel that lives in the pool beneath his bedroom. The eel obliges by swimming directly into Mason's mouth.
Has this ever happened on Nashville? Probably not!
NBC
Somehow, this is not the most fucked-up event that occurs in "Digestivo." (In case you've forgotten, allow me to remind you of the pig with the human fetus inside it.)
Hannibal and Will have dropped in for some good times and a few laughs.
NBC
It's easy to forget that a show this dark and hypnotic can also be incredibly funny, but both "Dolce" and "Digestivo" have upped the season's humor quotient substantially. Every situation Hannibal's characters find themselves in is inherently ridiculous, and the show is all the better when those characters realize how crazy things have gotten.
Season three's first five episodes sometimes lost sight of this idea, but episodes six and seven returned Hannibal to its darkly funny roots. Some of that is due to the fact that the show's most potent pairings — Hannibal and Will, Will and Jack, Will and Alana — were front and center. But some of it is the result of the characters being deeply aware of just how goofy it would be if they perished in the manners Mason had prepared for them.
And that humor really works as a pressure release valve for some of season three's stranger conceits. Hannibal's dream logic is most successful when it feels grounded in something — as I argued a couple of weeks ago — and humor is one of the best ways to maintain that grounded feeling. After all, what do humans do when they find themselves in horrible situations? They either collapse or they crack jokes — or sometimes both. The jokes in these last two episodes sizzle because they remind us of the characters' essential humanity.
What situation can't be improved with a sniper rifle at the ready?
NBC
So much of "Digestivo" involves Chiyoh appearing as if from out of nowhere to solve a particularly nasty plot problem by shooting someone. This should seem completely implausible, but writers Bryan Fuller and Steve Lightfoot, as well as director Adam Kane, so effectively remove her from the board in each instance that we're allowed to spend some time worrying for the safety of the characters before Chiyoh shows up as a sniper ex machina.
Hannibal Lecter: weirdly psyched to be somebody's dinner, seemingly.
NBC
If Hannibal Lecter is going to die, well, dammit, he'd like to die as deliciously as possible. Mads Mikkelsen's little smiles throughout this episode are delightful, as if he's contemplating the thought of how Hannibal might taste to those with a discerning palate.
Hannibal just wants u 2 know where he is, Will.
NBC
Those who pay attention to episode titles have known for a while that episode eight — which airs next week — marks a shift away from Hannibal's usual "one course of a meal" title format to quotes from William Blake's poetry. Fans of the Thomas Harris novels the characters originated in will likely note, then, the show's clear nod to Red Dragon, the very first novel Hannibal Lecter appeared in, and where our story is headed next.
Thus, it's no great surprise that Hannibal has been taken into custody by Jack Crawford. It's been coming for a long, long time. But Fuller and Lightfoot found a way to make the method of Hannibal's capture both unexpected and devastating. See, Will possibly could have taken down his tormentor and friend, but he ultimately didn't. Over the course of his ordeal, Will has come to realize that he's finally, totally over Hannibal. He doesn't want Hannibal as a friend or lover or confidante or even psychotherapist. He just wants Hannibal gone.
So instead of leaving, Hannibal surrenders to Jack, that he might always be where Will can find him, in times of need and times of struggle. It's a moment both triumphant — here is the devil himself going to jail! — and utterly, utterly defeating, because Hannibal wants to remain a tempter and tormentor for his favorite tortured soul.
Hannibal has teetered horribly on the edge of making its title character its protagonist in season three. (The show is at its best when Will is at its center and when it doesn't seem too enamored of Hannibal's philosophy.) But in this moment, the show hit on a way to stay true to the methods in its madness, while still giving Jack a hard-earned victory.
Bring on the Red Dragon.
That's how we feel about it, too, Mason!
NBC
NBC has moved Hannibal to Saturdays. The show's ratings remain awful. The actors' contracts have expired. Netflix and Amazon have passed on saving it (though Fuller said at Comic-Con that Amazon would have picked it up if season four could've gone into production sooner than anyone was prepared to go into production). Officially, there's still a chance someone else will step in, but the writing is very much on the wall — for now, at least. (There's no reason to believe that Hannibal can't be revived a few years from now as a movie or even a TV miniseries, but that's still "a few years from now.")
And yet both "Dolce" and "Digestivo" are as good a one-two punch as the show has ever thrown. They are, in and of themselves, perfect arguments for why Hannibal should have the opportunity to continue while its creative personnel are still living inside its headspace.
Once season three concludes, any possible extension of Hannibal probably wouldn't land in front of our eyeballs before 2017, but somebody, somewhere, needs to watch these two episodes and figure out how to make something happen. That's the only inescapable conclusion "Digestivo" offers — Hannibal now; Hannibal forever.
Previous episode
The morning after HBO aired "Down Will Come," the fourth episode of True Detective's second season, Slate's Willa Paskin wrote something of a mea culpa. She had given the first three episodes a mildly positive review, but found that the fourth episode made her want to take back that muted praise.
Consequently, Paskin confronted an issue that's become a bugaboo of modern TV criticism: the idea that critics should not pass judgment until they've seen an entire season of TV.
She writes:
As has been too often noted, reviewing television shows based on a smattering of episodes is similar to reviewing a book based only on its early chapters. This is a complaint often trotted out by creators who think their show has gotten a bum rap (a cohort that overlaps significantly with creators who think a "bum rap" is anything less than a 100 percent approval rating). As such, this analogy is almost always used as a chastisement against judging a TV show too early. It is not, as it could be, used to point out that the early chapters of a book are a pretty good indicator of the novel to come. And it is not, as it could be, used to highlight how much more patient people generally are with TV shows than with books. "Stick around! It gets good around Episode 3" is something people say encouragingly all the time. "Stick around! It finally gets good around Page 200!" is only a recommendation for a book compared to "it never gets good."
You should read all of Paskin's piece, which is great. But it also underlines something I've been struggling to state as effectively as Paskin does: On TV, more than the ending has to matter. The entire journey has to be effective if the story is going to work.
Even if True Detective season two pulls the greatest final half-season in the history of television out of its ass, it's not going to erase the fact that its first four episodes were frustratingly dull and often outright terrible, just as season one's mildly disappointing ending didn't erase all the good stuff that happened on the way there. As Paskin says, you're unlikely to keep reading a book that bores you for 200 pages, only to improve after that.
Or, here's another way to look at it: "Down Will Come" featured a slam-bang ending shootout (that I ultimately found kind of stupid, but we'll get to that in a minute), but the way its chaos arrived largely from out of nowhere didn't do much to recontextualize the rest of the episode. Instead, it just threw into sharper relief how pointless so much of it was. A great ending can't save a mediocre beginning and middle, except in very, very rare cases.
The whole ordeal was an empty exercise in doing something cool that was ultimately devoid of meaning
That shootout could have been an enthralling, fist-pumping sequence if the story had been firing on all cylinders. However, now that we've reached the halfway point, I think it's fair to say that True Detective's second season is merely ambling toward whatever its actual goal is. The series needs to imbue its characters with more spark and life if it's going to ask them to carry such intense material, and outside of arguably Ani, it just hasn't done so. Everything that happened before the shootout in "Down Will Come" was a snore. When the highlight of an episode is Ani's dad describing to Ray how large Ray's aura is, well, you know it's leaving something to be desired.
Plus, while the shootout was at least momentarily interesting, the second you step back to think about it, it ceases to make any sense. Are we supposed to believe that the protesters, caught in the crossfire and gunned down, didn't hear a massive gun battle erupt just a block away? Or that the explosions didn't alert anyone to the chaos? And my biggest question of all: Just why and how did our intrepid heroes apparently stumble onto a gigantic Mexican drug cartel operation? The whole ordeal was an empty exercise in doing something cool that was ultimately devoid of meaning.
Sure, the aftermath of the shootout could end up being worthwhile — but, again, that won't excuse the pointlessness of nearly everything that preceded it. You could answer all the questions I listed above with a little creative blank-filling, but the bones of a detective story are often best served by crystal clarity on what motivates the characters involved in the case, which affords the puzzle at the center more room to play out. True Detective is trying to buy itself time through obfuscation, and it's not helping.
I guess what I'm saying is this: Four episodes in, is it okay to declare that True Detective's second season has been kind of bad? Or do I still have to wait four more weeks?
In what might be the most telling moment of the deposition, Cosby says he did not believe his sexual contact with Constand had been unwelcome because of her behavior afterward. He says:
I walk her out. She does not look angry. She does not say to me, don’t ever do that again. She doesn’t walk out with an attitude of a huff, because I think that I’m a pretty decent reader of people and their emotions in these romantic sexual things, whatever you want to call them.
Cosby had met Constand when she was working as a basketball manager at Temple University in the early 2000s. He portrayed his relationship with her as one where he built up a mentor-mentee connection. He said their relationship consisted of "inviting her to my house, talking to her about personal situations dealing with her life, growth, education."
In the deposition, Cosby denied having sexual intercourse with Constand, saying instead they had a "sexual moment." Cosby also said that he refrains from having sex with women because it will lead them to "succumb to more of a romance."
Constand's mother later called Cosby to confront him. Cosby said that at the time, he wanted to ask Constand's mother about her daughter's orgasm (as supposed proof of her romantic attachment to him), but did not. He later offered to pay for Constand's education.
Cosby admitted to obtaining seven different prescriptions for the sedatives over several years during the 1970s. He utilized a Los Angeles doctor for this and claimed the prescriptions were for back pain.
Cosby does admit to giving the drugs to women, saying "the same as any person would, say, have a drink," but he claims to have only given them Quaaludes with their knowledge. When asked, however, if Therese Serignese, a woman he is accused of assaulting in 1976, could consent to having sex with him after he gave her the drugs, he said, "I don't know."
Cosby discussed his sexual encounters with several other women over the course of the deposition, reports the Times. He also described the methods through which he hid the encounters from his wife, Camille, usually through paying the women to keep quiet.
There have been many, many accusations of sexual assault leveled against Cosby, from dozens of women. The accusations all follow a very similar, disturbing pattern.
Tig, which premiered Friday, July 17, on Netflix, is not a funny movie. I don't mean that as a criticism: It's a documentary about someone who contracted a brutal C. diff infection, who lost her mother, and who survived bilateral breast cancer after undergoing a double mastectomy. But it's also about Tig Notaro, one of the very best standup comedians currently working in the field, whose first set after her cancer diagnosis became an instant classic of gallows humor and comedic catharsis.
Notaro's standup is usually delivered in a disaffected monotone, with a healthy dose of ironic detachment. In Live (pronounced as in "live or die," not "live concert"), the post-diagnosis set, Notaro's tone is less morose than it is a straightforward description of how awful the summer of 2012 was for her. "The technician said, 'Oh my gosh, you have such a flat stomach! What is your secret?'" she recalls. "And I was like, 'Oh, I'm dying.'"
That same straightforwardness was present on her 2011 debut album, Good One, which features Notaro's most famous bit, a 12-minute story that lists the numerous times she's run into late '80s/early '90s pop star Taylor Dayne. These encounters are reported matter-of-factly and without any excitement: "You guys are not going to believe who was sitting there. Yeah, it was Taylor Dayne. That's exactly who it was."

What's so bracing about Tig, for Notaro fans, is that the monotone is gone. With the exception of filmed standup appearances, she is not, at any point, "on." The filmmakers enjoyed remarkable access to the comedian, not least because one of them, Kristina Goolsby, is a longtime friend of Notaro's. "I can't imagine if I didn't know the director that I would've done or revealed what I did," Notaro told me in a recent interview. As a result, the film boasts enough material to capture the full arc of her illness, her mother's passing, and her burgeoning relationship with now-fiancée Stephanie Allynne.
The resulting portrait is not of "Tig Notaro," the well-crafted public persona. It's of Tig Notaro the actual person, flung into an unbearably difficult situation. Nothing feels constructed or honed. When Notaro is being visited in the hospital by other comedian friends like Sarah Silverman and Todd Barry, the visitors' celebrity doesn't take you out of the film at all. They're just regular people doing what anyone would do for a friend in need.
Of course, upon the release of Live, Notaro the public persona became inextricably linked with Notaro herself, the actual person who got cancer. She's not unhappy about this, necessarily. "A lot of people would ask, 'What is it like to be known for cancer?' or [they say,] 'I liked you before cancer,'" she says. "It just doesn't bother me, because I do feel like first and foremost I was doing standup and it just happened to be about that topic."

Notaro at a hospital appointment in a scene from Tig. (Netflix)
But if Live earned Notaro a broader audience, it brought with it new insecurities. One of the more powerful aspects of Tig is its tracing of how Notaro struggled to regain her confidence as a performer in light of her new notoriety, and how to incorporate material about her life into a standup set when that set has to be worked on over time, rather than delivered extemporaneously. What's more, the challenge was amplified because confessional comedy wasn't really her bailiwick before Live.
"I did have a moment, before I walked on stage in Iowa — it was one of my first big shows after Live came out, and I was backstage a little fearful that I would let people down with my new material because it wasn't heavy or 100 percent confessional," Notaro says. "I realized I had to really let go. Going through what I went through is a very firsthand experience of learning to let go, and just be like, 'I got through all that, I bet I can get through this set. I bet I can get through everyone's expectations. I bet life will go on."
Tig chronicles the evolution of one joke in particular, which Notaro eventually delivered fully formed on Conan, about whether her cancer was punishment from her breasts for years of jokes about how small they were:

By the end of the film, it's hysterically funny. But at the start it's just a germ of an idea that doesn't really work. Each retelling tweaks a phrase or adds a pause or otherwise tinkers with the joke to make it slightly better, until Notaro finally nails it. It's one of the best representations of the comedy-writing process I've seen on film, made all the more powerful because it's a perfect synthesis of the silliness of Notaro's early work and the emotional vulnerability of Live.
Notaro says her newest material continues to toe that line: "I went on stage last month with not a thought in my head and had a whole new half-hour of material that flew out of my head and face and mouth. I walked off stage going, 'Whoa, I didn't even know where that came from.' I didn't even notice that there was this theme in the material. All of the stories I was telling had to do with me blowing my cool in life. I've always identified with being really cool. That's how I saw myself, that's how people saw me. I'm just cool. And I revealed on stage very uncool moments in my life and told these stories that are really humiliating."
For those of us hankering to hear that new material, HBO will release Notaro's newest special on August 22. In the meantime, fans can look to Netflix's Tig for a remarkably personal, revealing, and serious exploration of what it takes to mine humor from tragedy.
The futuristic space-set cartoon Futurama built a large stable of characters over the seven seasons that it aired (as well as in its four movies). And 202 of them were voiced by just eight people:

The many voices of Futurama (Phil Edwards/Vox)
Those actors in the main cast include Billy West (Fry, Professor Farnsworth, Zapp Brannigan, Doctor Zoidberg), Katey Sagal (Leela), John DiMaggio (Bender), Tress MacNeille (Mom), Maurice LaMarche (Kif Kroker), Lauren Tom (Amy Wong), Phil LaMarr (Hermes), and David Herman (Scruffy).
Some key observations from looking at the chart:
Note: There are some key decisions that come with making a chart so vast. We omitted some "alternate universe" characters like Alternate Farnswoth and Alternate Fry, and we left out Flexo, too. Minor characters are probably overrepresented, and, in truth, a few may have slipped through the cracks — this chart is largely based on the work of dedicated fans at the Futurama Wikia, to which we owe great thanks.
Read more: What 11 famous voice actors — from Homer Simpson to Siri — really look like
Ant-Man is, in almost every way, an oddity in the Marvel Studios canon. It's the most standalone film Marvel has made since 2011's first Captain America movie, not particularly concerned with how its characters fit into the larger Marvel Cinematic Universe (though it does tie in here and there).

Unfortunately, it's felled by almost all of the studio's usual problems — most notably a seeming aversion to conflicts more serious than those that can be resolved with a brief fistfight. The film's best moments contain real wit and wonder ... and then those qualities are subsumed by its more generic aspects.

Rating
In short, it's a very un-Marvel movie that only underlines how tired Marvel's formula is becoming. Say what you will about the studio's last film — the bulky, weird Avengers: Age of Ultron — but at least Ultron tried something different (and, in my opinion, half-brilliant). Ant-Man has its charms, but they're frequently lost beneath a story that feels like a patchwork job. It's a fun watch, but also a frustrating one.
Let's dig in, then, to the good (the acting!) and bad (the anemic roles for women!) of Ant-Man.
Ant-Man's story is essentially just an excuse for shrinky-dink shenanigans. Ex-con Scott Lang (Paul Rudd) gets out of jail (where he was sent for wholly altruistic crimes, the film assures us) only to find that his job prospects aren't what they once were. Soon, he reunites with some criminal pals he met in prison, so they can pull off one last impossible heist.
The series of coincidences that follows is somewhat improbable, but that's not really the point. It's engineered to bring Scott into contact with one Hank Pym (Michael Douglas), a faded genius who invented a suit that allowed him to become insect-sized, while maintaining his raw human strength. (The resulting size differential between Hank and his foes theoretically gives him the ability to fly in from seemingly nowhere and knock someone out with a single punch.) And sure enough, Scott soon joins Hank's cause, becoming Ant-Man with the goal of infiltrating the company Hank once ran and preventing Hank's former protégé from selling his own version of the Ant-Man suit to the world's worst villains.
As a plot, it's little more than a platform for comic riffing, which is typical for Marvel
As a plot, it's little more than a platform for comic riffing — typical of Marvel — but it concludes in a dazzling action sequence that elevates the entire movie a point or two. With all of Ant-Man's powers in place, the movie can have some fun with scale, shrinking some objects and enlarging others with a gleeful, madcap velocity. One can sense the filmmakers challenging themselves to set an entire climactic action sequence in a little girl's bedroom — and being thrilled when they succeed.
Corey Stoll is a great actor, but Ant-Man strands him without much of a reason to be around.
Marvel
As Hank's former protégé and current rival, Darren Cross, Corey Stoll (best known for House of Cards and The Strain) has his moments — most notably when he's blowing up baby lambs in the name of science. (Yes, that happens.) And it's refreshing to see a Marvel movie where the endgame doesn't involve saving the world but, rather, preserving an old man's legacy and reuniting a younger man's family.
The problem is that Marvel doesn't really know how to write bad guys with credible motivations. Even its best villains — Robert Redford's character in Captain America: The Winter Soldier or Loki in the first Avengers film — have master plans that don't make much sense, and the studio is lousy at creating evil plots that mesh with its villains as established.
That's exactly what happens with Darren, whose motivations could not be murkier and whose grudges feel imported from a different movie we've never seen. The dry, expository style in which Marvel's movie baddies speak is probably an unfortunate leftover from comic-style storytelling, but it sometimes feels as if reciting loaded, threat-heavy dialogue is all Darren knows how to do. This leaves Stoll, a tremendously talented actor, stranded.
Before its release, Ant-Man was mostly defined by its troubled production history, in which original director Edgar Wright (he of such films as Scott Pilgrim and Hot Fuzz) quit the project just weeks before production was scheduled to begin, lending further credence to the idea that directors with strong personal visions have trouble fitting into the Marvel mold.
Reed's best films are candy-colored confections laced with acidic satire
And yet Ant-Man brims with the signature motifs of Peyton Reed, the man who replaced Wright, even as the script itself (which still bears credit to Wright and his writing partner, Joe Cornish) very clearly reveals the structural underpinnings of whatever Wright's version might have looked like. Ultimately, Reed's quirky filmmaking style gets to shine through.
Reed's best films — Bring It On and the sadly ignored '60s rom-com throwback Down With Love — are candy-colored confections laced with acidic satire. Ant-Man skimps on the satirical edge, but it boasts plenty of sugary sweet stuff around the edges. When Scott gets a job at a Baskin-Robbins, Reed plays up the pinks, and when our hero shrinks for the first time ever, the director transforms his scuzzy apartment building into a wild romper room. Reed hasn't made a big-screen film since 2008's Yes Man (his weakest work), and Ant-Man will hopefully revive his career.
At least the training for that heist sequence is a lot of fun.
Marvel
Instead of following the customary Marvel structure of three big fights at the movie's beginning, middle, and end, Ant-Man mostly eschews that approach in favor of staging heist sequences in the film's first and second acts. It's a great idea, as many of Marvel's movies thrive when they try other, non-superhero genres on for size.
But where the heist in act one is an enjoyable improvisation, with Scott attempting to crack a safe without the tools he needs, the one in act two suffers in its efforts to blend superheroics with complicated thievery. There are some cool moments with Scott controlling his ant friends (don't ask), but neither the structure of the heist nor its stakes if Scott fails are entirely clear beyond the usual, "Bad things will happen, and the villains will win!"
Rudd was seemingly born to play a reluctant superhero. The winningly charming actor has been the best thing about dozens upon dozens of comedies, but he's never quite hit as a star in his own right. As Scott Lang, however, he brings a real, bruised quality to his portrayal of a man who's seeking a way to keep his life together after very nearly throwing it all away. Ant-Man's emotional center lies in Scott's attempts to reunite with his young daughter and accept that his ex-wife has moved on with another man. While the script doesn't remotely earn any of these emotions, Rudd still plays the hell out of them, and sometimes that's enough.
While the script doesn't earn any of these emotions, Rudd still plays the hell out of them
Similarly, Michael Douglas possesses a faded lion quality as Hank, a man who really did lose almost everything and is trying to hold on to the one thing he has left — his own daughter, Hope (Evangeline Lilly). The scenes where Rudd, Douglas, and Lilly play off each other have a comedic zip to them that Marvel sometimes strains to achieve, but thanks to director Reed's facility with sarcastic quips, they skate right on by.
Judy Greer is an American treasure, Hollywood. Why can't you figure out what to do with her?
Marvel
Weirdly, to Ant-Man's credit, its entire subtext is about how little room there is for women or racial minorities in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (at least so far). For instance, Hope's entire character arc is about what happens when a woman wants to be a superhero but the most important people in her life won't let her. And Scott's ex-wife, Maggie, seems like such an obvious commentary on how poorly Marvel treats its women that she's played by Judy Greer, an actress who's literally famous for being ill-served by Hollywood.
The film's treatment of racial minorities is less adept, but at least it's hired excellent actors to play Scott's friends from the clink, in particular Michael Peña as the endlessly charismatic Luis. Yes, the scenes with Scott and Hank are a lot of fun — but Ant-Man so skillfully hints at how well its supporting characters might carry the movie that at times I was frustrated to have to spend so much time with the two whose story arcs are so similar to those of all of Marvel's other heroes.
Scott makes friends with four different kinds of ants that can help him complete certain tasks. Ant-Man doesn't make as much use of this as it could have, but in some of its most enjoyable moments, it invokes Pikmin, Nintendo's terrific video game about tiny spacefarers who take on giant bugs with the help of the titular flower people.
The good stuff is so, so good, and then the bad stuff is ... so Marvel
That everyday oddness strikes a new tone for Marvel, and the movie mostly succeeds in adopting it. But there's still a timidness throughout Ant-Man that holds it back. The good stuff is so, so good, and then the bad stuff is ... so Marvel.
There are mid- and post-credits scenes after Ant-Man!
Similar Easter eggs have appeared at the end of every Marvel movie. Sometimes they contain huge reveals that connect to future movies (see: Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver appearing in Captain America: The Winter Soldier's post-credits scene); other times they serve as little love letters from Marvel to its fans and its history (see: Howard the Duck at the end of Guardians of the Galaxy). They're fun. They can be exciting. And if we're lucky, they offer something to help tide us over until the next big Marvel blockbuster.

Ant-Man features two extra scenes. One of them introduces the possibility of a new Marvel hero, while the other provides an answer to one of Ant-Man's big-picture questions. Here's what they are and what they mean.
Spoilers follow for both the film and its mid- and post-credits scenes.
What happens: Hank Pym (Michael Douglas) takes his daughter, Hope (Evangeline Lilly), down to his lab, and shows her a suit with wings, an advanced prototype of the armor he and his wife, Janet, were working on. He tells Hope the suit is for her.
Why it matters: When Marvel chose to focus on the second incarnation of Ant-Man, Scott Lang, instead of Hank Pym, it did so knowing it would have to forgo huge, important chunks of Pym's storyline. Of particular note are Pym's creation of Ultron — something that haunts both Pym and Marvel's comic books to this day — and Pym's on-again, off-again relationship with the Wasp, a.k.a. Janet van Dyne.
In the comics, the Wasp was a founding member of the Avengers who gave the team its name. Pym and van Dyne's relationship defined their initial appearance, and van Dyne was written (in a somewhat patronizing way at the onset) as the better half of this Avengers power couple. For large swaths of their history together, van Dyne was a voice of reason — and after they eventually divorced, she became a voice of reason and heart and soul of the Avengers.
Though she is a badass — even more badass than Scott Lang (Paul Rudd) — in the film, there is no Hope van Dyne/Hope Pym/Hank and Janet's daughter in the main Marvel comic book universe. Hope van Dyne in the comic books is a little-known supervillain living in an alternate universe. But there's no reason Marvel has to go in that direction, and it looks like the company is more interested in introducing a superheroine in the mold of the Wasp.
What happens: Captain America (Chris Evans) and Falcon (Anthony Mackie) find the Winter Soldier/Bucky Barnes (Sebastian Stan) in an undisclosed location, where he's stuck in a vise-like contraption.
"Should I call Stark?"  Falcon asks.
"No," Cap replies.
Falcon says he knows a guy in reply, implying that helping Cap is a job for Ant-Man. (Remember: Falcon and Ant-Man met earlier when they fought at Avengers HQ.) The screen fades to black, promising an Ant-Man return.
Why it matters: This post-credits scene isn't as thrilling or as involved as the Wasp suit reveal. It serves as a bridge to introduce Ant-Man to the rest of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. And it would have been a bigger surprise had we not already known that Paul Rudd will reprise the role of Scott Lang in 2016's Captain America: Civil War.
Ant-Man is structured in a way that feels insular and unique from the rest of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Even though Lang's story takes place on Earth, the movie is more isolated than Thor or even Guardians of the Galaxy. How is this guy whose superpower is to shrink himself going to save the world with the rest of the Avengers?  Or how might he go to go head to head with still more Avengers in Civil War?
This scene raises those questions.
Every year, the announcement of the Emmy nominations brings with it a sense of hope for TV fans ... and then immediately delivers crushing, crushing disappointment.
The Emmy "system," developed during an era when all of television was produced by three broadcast networks, has grown increasingly incapable of keeping up with the glut of good-to-great series airing in every notch of the dial. Consequently, nobody is ever completely pleased by the Emmy nominations, and the best possible reaction is usually, "Well, they could have been a lot worse."

Now, 2015 is one of those "could have been a lot worse" years, with some cool nominations sprinkled throughout a list full of repeat nominees. But it's still tempting to dream of what might have been — and to be surprised by some of the decisions.
Here are the nine biggest Emmy snubs and surprises.
Cookie (Taraji P. Henson) and Luscious (Terrence Howard) are the center of Empire, TV's most dominant show of the moment — and a show snubbed for Best Drama.
Fox
Why it could have been nominated: Few TV shows in recent history have hit with the impact of Empire, which debuted huge — and then grew even bigger. Arguably, it created a real sense that broadcast television — long thought to be slowly dying — has a little life left in it after all. And while the Emmys don't always embrace broadcast shows anymore, they do often look for ways to acknowledge significant hits. Plus, a nomination for the music industry drama would have been a nice nod toward TV diversity, which never hurts with organizations like the television academy.
Why it wasn't nominated: Empire had to overcome two giant Emmy biases: the one against network shows and the one against primetime soaps. It probably could've surmounted one of these obstacles, but together, they ended up being too much to handle. At the very least, Taraji P. Henson pulled off a nomination for Best Lead Actress in a Drama for her portrayal of Cookie, the show's most iconic character.
Jim Parsons has won four of the last five Emmys for Lead Actor in a Comedy.
CBS
Why it could have been nominated: The biggest comedy on television (still) had been nominated for four straight years in the Best Comedy Series category before being tossed aside this year. And yet that's nothing compared to the accomplishments of Jim Parsons, who's won the Emmy for Lead Actor in a Comedy four times in the past five years for his performance as Sheldon Cooper. But Parsons — who won just last year, even — was also removed from contention. Supporting actress Mayim Bialik and guest actress Christine Baranski are the only two Big Bang contenders still in the running.
Why it wasn't nominated: Age, most likely. The show is about to begin its ninth season, and while there are plenty of shows that stuck around in this category long past that point, most of them were former winners (unlike Big Bang). Even mighty Emmy champion Frasier was dropped from this category later in its run. What's particularly notable in this case is that the Emmys seemed to fall out of love with The Big Bang Theory all at once. More common is what's happening with Modern Family, whose nomination total lags a little more with every year.
It only took three seasons, but Tatiana Maslany is finally a nominee for her Orphan Black performance.
BBC America
Why she might have been left out: Despite playing many different characters in every episode of Orphan Black, Maslany has been passed over for two years running. Most of the time, it's very difficult — albeit not impossible — for actors or shows to enter the mix in their third season or later. But there's Maslany, right alongside frequent Lead Actress in a Drama nominees like Robin Wright and Claire Danes.
Why she ultimately earned a nomination: Honestly, hell if I know. Sometimes, it just takes the Emmys time to start paying attention to something, and in this age when great TV is scattered all over the programming grid, many voters likely just took their time in checking out Orphan Black and boarding the train many of us jumped on all the way back in 2013.
Amazon's gentle dramedy Transparent pulled in 11 nominations for its first season.
Amazon
Why this is surprising: It took forever for cable series to win serious recognition at the Emmys — and outside of Showtime, HBO, AMC, and FX, no other cable network has been nominated in the Best Drama Series or Best Cable Series categories. The Emmys, which have always been resistant to change, were particularly resistant to the cable revolution. That's made the awards' quick embrace of Netflix — and now Amazon — all the more impressive.
Why it's not surprising: The Emmys were quick to embrace both House of Cards and Orange Is the New Black in 2013 and 2014, respectively, and they also handed acting nominations to those shows' fellow Netflix peers Arrested Development and Derek. So the fact that the streaming service grabbed major nominations in 2015 for both Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt and Bloodline shouldn't have been too shocking. But Amazon's Transparent truly stunned; the series was expected to garner a Best Comedy Series nod, but its total haul of 11 nominations — the most of any comedy — is a coup. And to top it all off, one of the nominations for TV Movie went to Acorn TV, a little known site that streams British TV. Clearly, the Academy likes streaming.
Liev Schreiber's nomination for Ray Donovan was most unexpected.
Showtime
Why his nomination is surprising: The race for Lead Actor in a Drama Series has traditionally been a bloodbath. In recent years, it's been superseded in that sense by Lead Actress in a Drama Series (where you could legitimately replace all six nominees with six different women and have a list that's just as good, if not better), but there are still a ton of quality contenders who were left out. For the Emmys to select Ray Donovan's Liev Schreiber over The Americans' Matthew Rhys or Justified's Timothy Olyphant or Masters of Sex's Michael Sheen or even Empire's Terrence Howard is honestly a bit mind-boggling.
Why it shouldn't be surprising: Showtime has long dominated the acting categories. While Sheen might have seemed the safe bet for the network in this category, Schreiber has the showier role. And the Emmys love nominating hammy, scenery-chewing performances in this category. (See also: former winner Jeff Daniels of The Newsroom; three-time nominee Kevin Spacey of House of Cards.)
Game of Thrones garnered 24 nominations. That's hugely impressive.
HBO
Why these nominations are surprising: After a hugely controversial season, there was some chatter that Game of Thrones might be headed for a bit of a decrease from its 17-nomination total in 2014. (It was never going to miss out on Best Drama Series, where it's a mainstay.) Instead, the show rocketed to 24 total nominations, including four acting nominations, two directing nominations, and a writing nomination.
Why they shouldn't be surprising: With the exit of two of 2014's most major nominees — Breaking Bad and True Detective — and no obvious successor to either, there's a huge void in a lot of the 2015 drama categories. In most cases, that void has been filled by Game of Thrones or House of Cards (the latter of which also quietly garnered nominations in categories it hasn't been part of in the past, like Supporting Actor in a Drama). Game of Thrones' huge nominations total makes it the early favorite for the Best Drama win, but the Emmys have been known to nominate shows lots of times, then largely ignore them come the actual awards ceremony. (See also: NYPD Blue, which managed 27 nominations and six wins in its first season — but didn't win Best Drama Series.)
The Good Wife had a disappointing sixth season.
CBS
Why these snubs are surprising: Though The Good Wife hasn't been nominated for Best Drama Series since its second season (a fact that is frequently forgotten), the 2015 Emmy season began as a wide-open field. As I noted above, the Best Drama Series race has lost two major players in Breaking Bad and True Detective — and what's more, the Academy just added a seventh nominee to the Best Series categories, presumably leaving three open spots. Plus, Julianna Margulies won for her work on the show just last year, becoming the only recipient of one of the top five trophies who wasn't part of Breaking Bad. But instead of receiving nominations this year, both Good Wife and Margulies were skipped in favor of Orange Is the New Black, Homeland, and Better Call Saul.
Why they shouldn't be surprising: Remember what I said about the Academy's bias against broadcast networks? When you mix that pesky little detail with the fact that The Good Wife's most recent season was pretty awful, it's easier to understand why the series wasn't deemed good enough to compete as a big dog in 2015. It remains on the Emmys' radar, as acting nominations for supporting players Alan Cumming and Christine Baranski suggest, but it will have to improve quite a bit if it's going to crack the top races again.
The Americans is perhaps TV's best show. Tell that to the Emmys.
FX
Why this snub is surprising: Okay, "surprising" is the wrong word. In its first two seasons, the most illustrious nomination that possibly could've been managed by The Americans — which the Vox style guide contractually obligates me to refer to as "the best show on television" — was Best Guest Actress for Margo Martindale. But 2015's wide-open Best Drama Series field and a growing sense that the Academy was catching up with the show via streaming (which is probably what helped to boost Maslany) had some critics hoping the show might snag a nomination for Best Drama Series or Lead Actor in a Drama. It did finagle its way into Best Writing — which is well-deserved and impressive and hopefully bodes well for the future — and Best Guest Actress, but it's still missing from the big categories.
Why it shouldn't be surprising: FX, for whatever reason, just cannot seem to get its foot in the door of the Best Drama Series category, despite success in the Best Limited Series (American Horror Story and Fargo) and Best Comedy (Louie) races. The network has managed nominations here for Damages, but it never secured space for The Shield, Sons of Anarchy, or Justified — even though all three shows deserved nominations at one point or another. We can now officially add The Americans to that mix, though it will at least have a shot at a 2016 bid.
Niecy Nash (left) received an unexpected nomination for her work on Getting On.
HBO
Why her nomination is surprising: It seems that every year, the Emmys toss one nomination to a completely out-of-left-field contender, as if to remind us of why they still merit our attention. In 2015, that contender is Niecy Nash, whose performance as a nurse in an elder-care ward on HBO's criminally underwatched Getting On is incredibly deserving ... and whose nomination is so random that no major Emmy predictor (so far as I know) had her on their list.
Why it shouldn't be surprising: Getting On airs on HBO? That's the best I can do. I have literally no idea how this happened — happy as I am that it did.
To the uninitiated, the Emmy nominations can look like a confusing series of weird choices. What makes one show a comedy and another a drama? What determines whether someone is a supporting actor or a guest? And why does American Horror Story keep ending up in the running for best miniseries?
The answer used to be that the Emmys were a wacky free-for-all, where actors and shows generally submitted themselves however they best saw fit. But in early 2015, after a 2014 Emmy season that featured several controversies over category delineations, the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences added several new rules to clarify who could compete in which races — rules that made many things clearer and a few things much less so.

Here, then, are the seven most important things you need to know about how the Emmy nominations work.
Netflix
Netflix
Orange Is the New Black was a comedy for its first season, but the Emmys deemed it a drama for season two. (Netflix)
Why is Amazon's low-key dramedy Transparent a comedy, while Orange Is the New Black is a drama? The answer mostly comes down to running time.
Until this year, it was a show's prerogative to identify itself as a comedy or a drama. There was no specific governing board making those calls, which led to just about any fairly dramatic show with a handful of comedic elements competing in the comedy categories, where they were often quite successful. In 2014, the most notable beneficiary of this policy was Netflix's Orange Is the New Black, a series that mixed several great laughs into what was essentially a women's prison drama and, thus, competed in the comedy categories.
When it made its rules changes, the Academy decreed that it would categorize all TV programming as follows: Shows that fill a half-hour time slot would automatically be considered comedies, and those that fill an hour-long time slot would automatically be dramas.
For many series, that makes sense, as there haven't been many genuine half-hour dramas in TV history. (Arguably, the most recent one is HBO's 2000s psychiatry drama In Treatment, which ended in 2010) And while there are several famous hour-long shows with comedic elements (like, say, Orange Is the New Black or Glee), there are never so many on the air at a given time that the default classifications don't work on some level.
However, this is an incredibly limiting way to parse an increasingly varied TV landscape. The Academy recognizes this, so it allows individual shows to appeal to change their default classification. A handful of hour-long shows did just that in 2015, with no half-hour shows doing so.
The Academy ultimately decided that three of those hour-long shows — Glee, Jane the Virgin, and Shameless — could compete in the 2015 Emmys as comedies, while Orange Is the New Black must compete as a drama. But where the more outwardly silly Glee and Jane made more immediate sense as comedies, it's not clear why Shameless is a comedy and Orange Is the New Black is a drama, given that both shows boast fairly equal divides of both genres. (For what it's worth, Orange Is the New Black did score a nomination in the Best Drama category, but Shameless did not make the cut for Best Comedy.) The new system is an improvement on the old one, but it still needs work.

The Modern Family actors always submit themselves in the supporting categories. (ABC)
Submitting for the guest acting categories used to be an easy way for an actor to hack the Emmy system. John Lithgow, for instance, won the guest-acting Emmy for his performance in the fourth season of Dexter, in which he appeared in every episode. Similarly, Mad Men's Robert Morse and Shameless's Joan Cusack were frequent guest nominees for their respective shows, despite effectively being series regulars.
The Emmys put a stop to this by pronouncing that actors can only compete in the guest categories if they appear in fewer than half of a season's episodes. Like the comedy vs. drama rule change, this one hit Orange Is the New Black hardest of all, by forcing almost all of its cast members into the supporting actor category. At the 2014 Emmys, Orange Is the New Black had three contenders in the Guest Actress category; this year, only Laura Prepon — who appeared in just four of 13 episodes in season two, the season in the running for the 2015 awards — was eligible to submit there. Lorraine Toussaint, who played a one-season villain on the show, is the actor who's most obviously affected. She almost certainly would have submitted as a guest actress under the old rules but was forced to submit as a supporting actress under the new ones.
In contrast, Morse and Cusack submitted as guest performers again, simply because they didn't appear in that many episodes of their respective shows' most recent seasons. (Cusack did end up earning a nomination, but Morse did not.)
In the two other acting categories, however, actors decide whether to label themselves as lead actors or supporting actors. There are no specific guidelines for this. The entire adult cast of Modern Family, for example, submits in the supporting categories every year, while Rob Lowe is famous for submitting as a lead actor on both The West Wing and Parks and Recreation when his roles on both series might have seemed to be more of a supporting nature.
Because television is such a huge, varied medium, the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences doesn't release a list of Emmy-eligible series, as the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences does for the eligible Oscar movies. That means if you want to be considered for an Emmy, you're in for a lot of paperwork. And some candidates who don't really think they have a chance at a nomination just don't submit. TV.com's Cory Barker has compiled a great list of candidates who opted not to even try for a spot on this year's ballot, and if you want to see the list of everyone who did submit themselves, you can check it out here.

True Detective was in the drama series category for its first season. It will no longer be able to do that in future seasons. (HBO)
As part of its rule changes, the Academy decided to change the longstanding term of "miniseries" to "limited series" in the Emmys' category names. This reflects a growing industry trend toward shows that tell new stories with new characters in every new season, and it reflects another controversy from the 2014 Emmy cycle.
In 2014, HBO's True Detective decided to compete as a drama, rather than as a miniseries. And while that move ultimately yielded poor results (of all the major awards, the show won only the trophy for directing), it prompted lots of discussion as to why True Detective was a drama series while FX's American Horror Story and Fargo were miniseries.
Ultimately, the Academy decided that all shows whose characters don't appear across multiple seasons should compete in the "limited series" category, meaning True Detective would have been in this category this year, had it been eligible. Since both True Detective and Fargo did not air new episodes during the eligibility period for the 2014-'15 TV season, that means the full effect of this change won't be seen until the 2016 Emmys.

With just three episodes per season, Sherlock is trapped in the limited series category by default. (PBS)
This isn't too big of a deal right now, but the Emmy rules classify a TV "series" as a program that airs at least six episodes within a single TV season. That means almost every show on television qualifies, but there are a few that fall just outside that designation. For instance, PBS's Sherlock has seasons of just three episodes, despite featuring continuing characters and storylines, and must therefore compete in the limited series category by default.
As American networks import more British series, which usually have shorter episode orders, and as more streaming services embrace programming that falls outside the conventional TV model (as with Netflix's new Residue, which had a three-episode first season), this gray area will only continue to expand. The Emmys will have to redefine it eventually.

Despite debuting all the way back in May 2014, Penny Dreadful wasn't eligible for the Emmys until this year. (Showtime)
Why isn't True Detective's second season eligible for the 2015 Emmys? Because the eligibility calendar follows the traditional TV season calendar, outdated as it is. To be eligible for the 2015 Emmys, a show has to have aired at least half of its season between June 1, 2014, and May 31, 2015. That means Orange Is the New Black's 2015 nominations will be based on its second season, which launched in June 2014, and not its third season, which launched in June 2015.
That "half of its season" qualifier is important, too. It means that a show like Game of Thrones — which aired all but two of its season five episodes within the eligibility period for the 2015 Emmys — was allowed to submit the two additional episodes for awards consideration.
The Emmys' eligibility rule usually works in the favor of shows that premiere later in the season, in March or April, and continue to air into June. However, it can work in the other direction. The first season of Showtime's Penny Dreadful, for instance, aired only three episodes in May 2014, so it was not eligible to compete in the 2014 Emmys. Instead, those three episodes were lumped into its bid for the 2015 Emmys.

Tatiana Maslany, who plays multiple roles in Orphan Black, was a long shot for an Emmy nomination, despite the technical difficulties of her performance. Her 2015 nod was a pleasant surprise. (BBC America)
The dirty secret of the Emmy nomination process is that the people who vote on the nominations don't really watch a ton of television. Indeed, they're too busy making it. This has changed a bit in the era of DVR viewing and streaming, but not substantially. Actors who don't have a ton of name recognition — or who aren't on shows that Emmy voters are already watching — are often out of luck. That's why so many of the same shows and actors keep getting nominated, year after year, with few changes to the ballot.
The exceptions? Shows that air on networks the Emmys always pay attention to and/or shows whose networks (or production companies) have cash to burn on huge "for your consideration" marketing efforts. HBO in particular has been associated with "quality TV" for so long that it can get Emmy voters to seriously assess pretty much anything it puts on the air. And the reason Netflix has made such a huge splash, even as a young network, is that it can afford to mount big ad campaigns.
Genre also matters, as does audience size. Until her 2015 nomination for Lead Actress in a Drama, Orphan Black actress Tatiana Maslany had been repeatedly snubbed, despite the obvious technical superiority of her performance. She'd won a number of critics awards for her work, and she'd been nominated for a Golden Globe. But Orphan Black is a science fiction show on BBC America that hasn't ever drawn 1 million live viewers; that's why Maslany's nomination is so (pleasantly!) surprising. If you were to swap out any one of those variables — by putting Orphan Black on HBO, for instance ­— her nod would've been much more of a given.
If your favorite performer or show was denied a spot on the 2015 Emmy ballot, the most likely reason is that they fell outside the awards' go-to nominee sources. It's just hard to get Emmy voters to pay attention to stuff outside their wheelhouse, even though stuff outside their wheelhouse constitutes much of what makes TV so great right now.
The nominees for the 67th annual Primetime Emmy Awards were announced Thursday, July 16 in Los Angeles by Orange Is the New Black actress Uzo Aduba and So You Think You Can Dance host Cat Deeley. The announcement began at 11:30 am Eastern.

The winners will be announced later this year in two separate ceremonies. The Creative Arts Emmys will be awarded at 8 pm Eastern on Saturday, September 19. The ceremony will be broadcast on FXX. The Primetime Emmy Awards will air live at 8 pm Eastern on Sunday, September 20. The ceremony will be broadcast on Fox.
HBO's Game of Thrones led the list of 2015 nominees with a tremendous 24 nominations across all categories. FX's American Horror Story: Freak Show came in second with 20 nominations. The most nominated comedy series was Amazon's Transparent, with 11 nominations.
Among networks, HBO scored the most nominations with 126. ABC was a distant second with 42.
Below, you'll find a list of nominees in select categories. To read the full list, go here.

To Kill a Mockingbird is one of the best-known books in America. It's an inspiring story about standing up to injustice even if doing so is difficult and unpopular; an accessible coming-of-age tale; and a convenient way to teach high school English students about the Jim Crow South. It's also the only novel that its author, Harper Lee, had ever published — until a sudden announcement in February 2015 heralded the publication of Go Set a Watchman, a new Lee work featuring the same characters as To Kill a Mockingbird.
A lot of people are suspicious about the discovery of the new manuscript. There are questions about whether Lee actually wanted it to be published, or whether she even wrote it at all — and if so, when. These questions have only become more urgent since the book's release on July 14, due to its "reveal" that Atticus Finch, the anti-racist hero of To Kill a Mockingbird, is a virulent racist in Watchman.
So does America now need to exile To Kill a Mockingbird from its summer reading assignments? Or should readers continue to read Mockingbird as if Watchman had never existed? How you think about this, it turns out, depends on who you think is responsible for creating a novel's meaning — and how comfortable you are with America's complicated racial legacy.
Go Set a Watchman is either the sequel to To Kill a Mockingbird, a rough draft of it, or something in between — it depends on whom you ask.
Until July 2015, Harper Lee had published only one novel: To Kill a Mockingbird. The book was an instant success when it was published in 1960; it was quickly made into an iconic 1962 movie starring Gregory Peck, and Lee, feeling the pressure to live up to her first book, never published another novel again.
In February 2015, a statement issued by Lee's publisher — purportedly on her behalf — announced that a manuscript had been "discovered" attached to another draft of Mockingbird. That manuscript was claimed to be Go Set a Watchman — the novel Lee initially submitted to editor Tay Hohoff, which ultimately became To Kill a Mockingbird.
The way the publisher tells it, Hohoff liked Lee's writing. But as Hugh Van Dusen, who's now Lee's editor at HarperCollins, said in an interview in February, Hohoff  "said to her, This isn’t what you want to write; you want to write something about Scout when she was a girl." Lee worked extensively with Hohoff to rewrite the book, and the result was To Kill a Mockingbird.
But there's a lot of skepticism surrounding this account. The discovery was very sudden: Even Van Dusen hadn't heard about the discovered manuscript until just before it was announced. And after years and years of Lee saying she'd never publish again, it seemed very suspicious that she would have agreed to put out a new novel.
Lee suffered a stroke in 2007, and she's currently suffering from dementia. It's not clear that she would be able to give informed consent about the publication of a new novel. The state of Alabama actually launched an elder-abuse investigation into Lee's situation earlier this year. It didn't find evidence of coercion or abuse, but it's impossible to rule them out with absolute certainty.

Harper Lee in 2007. (Chip Somodevilla/Getty)
It seems all too plausible that lawyers could take advantage of Lee — especially for the sake of generating more profit for her estate. After all, the news of Go Set a Watchman's release was a boon to the publishing industry: The novel would have a ready-made audience in the millions of Americans who read Mockingbird in school (it's routinely among the most-assigned books in high school English classrooms) or at least managed to crib together an understanding from SparkNotes and the Peck movie.
And in the #BlackLivesMatter era, it was particularly timely to publish a follow-up to  Mockingbird, which is remembered mostly as a civil rights classic. This is the secret to its staying power in classrooms. Its portrayal of the Jim Crow South is historically relevant. Its young protagonist gives students someone to relate to as she discovers how unjust her society is; Atticus Finch, the protagonist's father and a lawyer who defends a black man falsely accused of rape, is a morally uplifting portrait of a just man confronting an unjust society. (It doesn't hurt that recollections of the book are often refracted through the Peck movie, which focuses on the book's racism plot.) Finch loses the trial, but the book makes it clear that what matters is that he stood up for what he believed in.
Some critics suspect that the timing of a new novel from Lee was just too perfect — that Go Set a Watchman isn't actually a draft of To Kill a Mockingbird at all, but an attempted sequel pieced together by others. Adam Gopnik, writing at the New Yorker, makes the best argument in support of this:
The book as a book barely makes sense if you don’t know "Mockingbird." If "Watchman" is a first novel, even in draft, it is unlike any first novel this reader is aware of [...] It would not be surprising if this novel turns out to be a revised version of an early draft, returned to later, with an eye to writing the "race novel" that elsewhere Harper Lee has mentioned as an ambition.
So the controversy about what Go Set a Watchman really is isn't just a controversy over its history and how it came to be published. It's a controversy over who gets to decide what makes a book — and whether this book should change the way people understand To Kill a Mockingbird.
That's why the book's publication has sparked another controversy. While some parts of Go Set a Watchman are recognizable from Mockingbird — Quartz has a list of passages that survived the rewriting process pretty much intact — the plot and characters were totally transformed in the editing process that presumably turned one novel into the other.
In particular, reviewers have been horrified, and more than a little betrayed, to learn that the Atticus Finch of Go Set a Watchman is a vocal supporter of segregation. NPR reviewer Maureen Corrigan compared the change to "turning Ahab into a whale-lover."

ATTICUS! How could you?!?? (Universal History Archive/UIG via Getty images)
It's ironic that the reception of Go Set a Watchman has been dominated by shock and dismay over the discovery that Atticus Finch is a racist, because the book is literally about Scout — who now goes by her given name, Jean Louise — making the same discovery.
It's important to remember that this book is set in the mid-1950s — in the wake of the Supreme Court decision in Brown v. Board of Education that ruled segregation of public schools was unconstitutional. Jean Louise has been living in New York, and quietly assumed that her family back home is just as anti-segregationist as she is. Instead, she discovers that Atticus and her love interest, Henry Clinton, are both leading figures in Maycomb's Citizens' Council — local groups that sprang up to defend segregation. They're hostile (if not downright paranoid) toward the Supreme Court and the NAACP, which they worry are trying to incite the local black population. And Atticus, for his part, genuinely believes that African Americans are mentally childlike and unable to lead themselves or society. (Many reviews of Go Set a Watchman have made a big deal out of the revelation late in the book that at one point in the past Atticus had attended a Klan meeting, but that's eventually explained away. Atticus is portrayed as a virulent racist, but not as a Klan member in any meaningful way.)
Go Set a Watchman is a portrait of a particular historical moment when the South knew it was under siege by the forces of integration, and suspected it had already lost, but hadn't yet been forced to accept that defeat. It can be bitterly funny, and also genuinely difficult to read. In one scene, Jean Louise visits her childhood cook Calpurnia and is alarmed to realize that Calpurnia is using her "company manners" — the exaggerated, servile dialect she puts on for white strangers. Jean Louise is distraught that the woman who raised her now just sees her as "white folk," and asks Calpurnia directly: "Do you hate us?"
But thematically, Go Set a Watchman is literally about what happens once you realize Atticus Finch isn't the paradigm of civil rights you thought he was. It's the story of a young woman coming to terms with knowing that the father she had revered as a god is merely a man, and that the morals she thought she'd inherited wholesale from him are actually her own.
Jean Louise is an integrationist. Atticus is a legalist. He'll still take a case to represent a black defendant — in this case, one he knows to be guilty. But it's because he knows that he can secure a plea bargain, whereas if the NAACP represents the accused, it'll make a bigger deal out of the case.
That's a pretty accurate portrayal of one strain of Southern white liberalism, according to historian Kimberley Johnson of Barnard. According to Johnson, in the pre-Brown South, white liberals were relatively few. "To go against this reigning ideology of white supremacy was super dangerous, not only politically but also financially," Johnson says. (In Go Set a Watchman, a character from a working-class background makes exactly this point; Jean Louise, from a solidly middle-class background, totally dismisses it.)
As a result, many white liberals were upper or middle class — and defined by that status. "What made them liberal was an old-school gentility and also class," says Johnson. "There was a certain percentage of Southerners who, while they might have agreed with the notion of keeping African Americans in their place, had a disdain for the crudeness of the KKK and the tacky people who were associated with it." That's Jean Louise's first reaction at the Maycomb Citizens' Council meeting: She's shocked to see Atticus sitting alongside people the Finches call "trash."
To these liberals, things like lynching were an embarrassment. "It made it look like the government wasn't actually in charge," Johnson says. They might have agreed about the inherent criminality of black people, but they wanted to uphold the rule of law even more.
But it doesn't feel that way. Because if Go Set a Watchman is a novel about disillusionment, does that mean that Atticus's heroism in To Kill a Mockingbird is the illusion?

Can they really coexist? (John Lamparski/WireImage)
Some critics argue that Go Set a Watchman introduces a useful complication to our understanding of To Kill a Mockingbird, because it points out that good people can believe bad things, and that people can do good things for bad reasons. Alyssa Rosenberg wrote in the Washington Post:
"Go Set a Watchman" is part of the process of divesting ourselves of the idea that, as Ta-Nehisi Coates put it, "we believe racism to be the property of the uniquely villainous and morally deformed, the ideology of trolls, gorgons and orcs." If racism can belong to Atticus Finch — and if it became his property through the same processes that made him a hero — it can belong to anyone.
But other critics have argued that the Atticus of To Kill A Mockingbird shouldn't be sullied by association with the Atticus of Go Set a Watchman. For one thing, in To Kill a Mockingbird, the adult Scout (who narrates the novel) reinforces the heroism of her father, as Albert Burneko wrote for Deadspin:
Part of what makes Atticus such a powerful character is that, even though Narrator-Scout casts a gently ironic eye toward many of Kid-Scout’s ways of understanding the world, Atticus, in both of their eyes, is a hero. This is a key to that novel, I think, or have always thought: Jean Louise changed and grew up, and her understanding of Atticus broadened and deepened, but her admiration remained, because he really was a hero.
Burneko is making a literary-theory argument: that the answer to "what is this character really like?" is one only the reader can answer. Generations of readers have created their own ideas of what Atticus Finch is really like by reading, discussing, watching the Peck movie, etc. And the author can't take that away from them. As Burneko writes:
If Harper Lee is saying this Atticus is a Klan-rallying bigot—her lawyer would like us to believe she is, anyway—she might be wrong! She literally does not know him as well as you do. She knows him only slightly better than an absentee sperm donor knows the in-vitro-fertilized child raised by someone else.
But while "the reader knows best" is one answer to the question of "what is Atticus really like?" it's not the only answer. Another answer would be to take the publisher at its word and assume that Watchman is in large part an early draft of Mockingbird — which the Quartz article showing identical paragraphs seems to bear out — and ask what changed. Because the two versions of Atticus Finch aren't really the same person.
Lee has said that Atticus was based on her own father, a lawyer, so it's easy to assume that Atticus's morals must have been drawn from real life. But reading Go Set a Watchman makes it clear that the plot and characters of To Kill a Mockingbird weren't just drawn from life — they emerged during the editing process. Go Set a Watchman isn't just set several years after To Kill a Mockingbird — it actually portrays a different reality.

This Alabama courthouse performs scenes from To Kill a Mockingbird for visitors. This is about to get awkward. (G.M. Andrews/The Washington Post via Getty)
Go Set a Watchman is set in a world where the crucial event in To Kill a Mockingbird didn't happen. In a flashback, Jean Louise remembers a case that readers recognize as the central trial in To Kill a Mockingbird: that of a black man with only one usable arm, charged with raping a white girl. But here's how the case is described in Go Set a Watchman (emphasis added):
Atticus took his career in his hands, made good use of a careless indictment, took his stand before a jury, and accomplished what was never before or afterwards accomplished in Maycomb County: he won an acquittal for a colored boy on a rape charge.
In other words, in the world of Go Set a Watchman, Atticus got Tom Robinson off.
This isn't a minor change. In To Kill a Mockingbird, the outcome of the trial is proof that the South is implacably racist — but that standing up for what's right is its own reward, and that it's something worth doing. In Go Set a Watchman, a sufficiently talented lawyer can actually persuade a white jury to acquit an innocent black defendant. That makes Maycomb look much better. But it also makes Atticus, who claims he's going along with the Citizens' Council in part to moderate them, look a lot more cowardly.
In Mockingbird, racism has a face in the trial of Tom Robinson: the monstrous Bob Ewell, who beats his daughter and later tries to kill Scout. There's no Bob Ewell in Watchman. The white woman who testifies for the prosecution is a 14-year-old, but the sex she had with the defendant was consensual — and since the defendant wasn't charged with statutory rape, this is enough to get the defendant acquitted. (Again, Atticus is a legalist.)
It's no wonder that, in contrast to the institutional racism of the jury in Tom Robinson's case and the individual villainy of Ewell, Atticus looks like a civil rights hero in To Kill a Mockingbird. He's the only person in Maycomb who's willing to call out injustice when he sees it.
If the publisher is telling the truth now, at some point, as Lee worked with her editor, Hohoff, to turn Watchman into Mockingbird, the city of Maycomb was made to look worse — so that Atticus Finch could look better. But why? It would have been possible to refocus the book on Scout's childhood, or even on the trial, without altering the outcome.
We don't know for sure what Hohoff and Lee wanted from their book. But a New York Times article about Hohoff strongly implies that she wanted Mockingbird to be inspirational — and that she had an affinity for white liberal heroism. At the same time that Hohoff was editing Lee, she was writing a biography of a turn-of-the-century liberal crusader in New York, one whose ancestor was an abolitionist killed by a pro-slavery mob.
Some critics have argued that it wasn't fair to print Go Set a Watchman as an independent work, any more so than it would be to go through your email drafts folder and hit send on whatever you find in there. This idea, too, has its roots in some form of literary theory: The "real" To Kill a Mockingbird didn't spring fully formed from the head of Harper Lee, it was created through a collaborative process with her editor, Hohoff.
The history certainly bears that out. But the editing process isn't just about creating a literary work. It's about creating a work for the literary market.

To Kill a Mockingbird: stilllll popular. (Melanie Stetson Freeman/The Christian Science Monitor via Getty Images)
In the late 1950s, when working on Mockingbird, Hohoff and Lee appear to have come to the conclusion that a book about a heroic Southern white man was a better book and a better product than a book about a disillusioned Southern white woman. The success of Mockingbird confirms as much. So do plenty of other cultural depictions of the Jim Crow South, in which white protagonists standing up against the racism of white society get to be the heroes of their stories.
That's a comfortable moral position for white people: It lets them disdain white supremacy without feeling implicated in it. It's a less comfortable position for nonwhite people. When I asked Dr. Johnson, the Barnard historian, if she'd read Go Set a Watchman yet or planned to, she replied: "I read To Kill a Mockingbird [in school], I was the only black person in my class, and it was a horrific experience." And while "comfortable" may be a good way to teach history and morality to high schoolers, it doesn't seem like the best way to confront the legacy of actual white supremacy.
No critic appears to like Go Set a Watchman as much as To Kill a Mockingbird, and many of them frankly hate it — in part, it appears, because of its bitterness. But it's hard to say how much of the critical ire is based on literary merit and how much of it is rooted in the fact that Mockingbird is a less uncomfortable book for white people to read. After all, another book that came out the same day as Go Set a Watchman — Ta-Nehisi Coates's Between the World and Me — is receiving some mixed reviews because it's presented as an homage to James Baldwin without doing enough to emphasize that things are better for black Americans now than they were in Baldwin's day.
The people who have rushed to pick up Between the World and Me don't appear to overlap much with the ones who are rushing to pick up Go Set a Watchman, because they don't remember Mockingbird as fondly. But the people who have raced to pick up Watchman have been thrown by the possibility that their hero isn't particularly heroic. As Jean Louise herself demonstrates in the book, that's not a bad thing.
Ant-Man is the superhero no one really wants to be.
If you were to hold a draft of Marvel's pantheon of heroes, Ant-Man might be a late third-round pick. His size-shifting capabilities (as his name implies, he can shrink himself to the stature of an ant) and genius wouldn't get you very far in a fight against supervillains, and if you're looking for a hero with the ability to communicate with his or her namesake animal, there are more adorable characters like Squirrel Girl.

Yet somehow Ant-Man is still important, and it's all thanks to his failure.
The fumes from this man's numerous crash-and-burn attempts to become the greatest could — and did — fill hundreds of issues of Marvel comic books. And though there have been multiple attempts to rewrite his history and bestow his title upon other characters, Ant-Man's existence always comes back to one unique truth: He's a third-string hero who's seemingly destined to fail, and he will do everything in his power to avoid that fate. On a team full of heroes who have valiance in their blood and greatness in their nature, Ant-Man stands out because he doesn't have those things.
Four versions of Ant-Man have existed throughout Marvel's history, starting with Henry "Hank" Pym in 1962. These men, including Pym, have been incorporated into some of Marvel's most iconic stories; various incarnations of Ant-Man have been involved in the creation of Ultron, maintained a rough relationship with a superheroine known as the Wasp, and died one of Marvel's most iconic deaths. But even still, Ant-Man certainly isn't indispensable. Ultron, for example, has already made his way to the big screen without Ant-Man, proving that the Marvel Cinematic Universe can survive without him.
What's more, the lives of Hank Pym (Michael Douglas) and the second Ant-Man, Scott Lang (Paul Rudd) — the two Ant-Men at the center of the character's eponymous 2015 film — couldn't be more different. Their origin stories are deeply at odds: One lets his failures affect his family, while the other can't afford to fail because his family's survival depends on him. The process of deciding which Ant-Man's story to tell, which Ant-Man to bring to life, could be a movie on its own.
The new Ant-Man film's single biggest deviation from Marvel's Ant-Man comics is that it focuses on Scott Lang as Ant-Man. In the comics, when purists talk about Ant-Man, they're usually referring to Hank Pym, the first man to carry the title. Pym was an original Avenger, an integral force in Avengers history, and a deeply flawed genius with a flair for robotics.
But he wasn't a traditional hero.
Right from his start in 1962, Pym was one of Marvel's most troubled superheroes. His signature superpower — changing his size — wasn't as flashy as that of Thor or Iron Man. Even though he was brilliant, his intelligence wasn't as revered as Reed Richards/Mister Fantastic's. And his story is one of constant failure and his attempts to fix that failure. Pym's greatest creation, the most sophisticated artificial intelligence that the Marvel Universe has ever seen, turns out to be Ultron — one of the Avengers' most enduring foes.
(Marvel)
"His history was largely a litany of failure, always changing guises and switching back and forth from research to hero-ing because he wasn't succeeding at either," Jim Shooter, a former editor-in-chief at Marvel, wrote on his website, explaining Pym's shortcomings. "He was never the Avenger who saved the day at the end and usually the first knocked out or captured."
Having a hero fail — and fail miserably, as Pym did — would actually make for an interesting story that cuts against the grain of Marvel's overachieving superheroes. Success doesn't come easy to him, and the solutions he comes up with to fix his problems typically involve more problems, like more shitty, uber-powerful robots. Pair that with a supergroup full of heroes who ostensibly can do no wrong, and the result is a superhero who's psychologically brittle.
It was only a matter of time before Pym's on-again, off-again love interest and spouse, the Wasp (a.k.a. Janet van Dyne), became a target of his frustrations — a dynamic we don't often see in comic books:
Avengers No. 1. (Marvel)
It's difficult to encapsulate the 50 years of comic book stories Ant-Man and the Wasp ultimately shared, but the bottom line is that Ant-Man's writers and artists weren't afraid to show the couple's relationship going sour. The Wasp was generally loved, and she was a successful superhero — a constant reminder to Pym of how underwhelming he was. That led to rough patches for the pair, with the Wasp serving as a voice of reason and Pym playing the role of hardheaded challenger and going against her clear thinking.
The moment that ultimately came to represent their relationship and Pym's history occurred in Avengers No. 213, when Pym hit his wife:
Avengers No. 213. (Marvel)
This moment is one of the ugliest in Marvel history. Pym, who at the time is going by the codename Yellow Jacket, is being punished by the Avengers and comes up with an utterly idiotic scheme — it's made clear that he's under extreme duress — to create a robot that only he can defeat. He wants to sic it against the Avengers, step in to save the day, and regain their trust. And the Wasp, who doesn't suffer from the same dumbness as her husband, is not about to agree to such a garbage plan.
The panels leading up to the slap are disturbing, as the robot Pym has created begins to hurt the Wasp. Seeing his wife in pain gives Pym a maniacal thrill:
Avengers No. 213. (Marvel)
It's nearly impossible to separate Pym from this event. Thus, it's easy to see why Marvel wouldn't want to fully incorporate Pym into its contemporary movies, even though he and his wife were founding and crucial members of the Avengers. And that's a large part of why Ant-Man concentrates more on the second Ant-Man, Scott Lang, and depicts Pym as an old man: It puts the spotlight on Lang and minimizes Pym's personal story.
Some people feel the Marvel Cinematic Universe has pretty much gutted Pym's story from the comics, salvaged the best parts (Ultron!), and brought a ghost of the original Ant-Man to the screen. That's worrisome to critics who believe that giving the character his own film could be part of Marvel's strategy to create more complicated and less heroic heroes.
"If this is how Marvel plans to approach the rest of its catalogue, it’s a very different treatment from the one that gave us faithful versions of Iron Man, Thor and Captain America," Andrew Wheeler wrote at Comics Alliance in 2014. "I worry that doubt has set in, and the studio will make movies that sneer at the comics rather than honoring them. Those aren’t the superhero movies I enjoy."
The first time we meet Scott Lang is in Avengers No. 181 (1979), a story that actually begins with two superheroes, Beast and Wonderman, watching a movie and commenting about how the public sees heroes and superheroes. The two pay a visit to the Avengers mansion, where they're attacked by a wayward security system:
Avengers No. 181. (Marvel)
They soon learn that the security "upgrades" were instituted by an employee of Tony Stark named Scott Lang:
Avengers No. 181. (Marvel)
Initially, we don't know much about Lang other than that he's a bit of a genius when it comes to electronics. He's someone Stark trusts, but it's not clear how he and Stark know each other, or how Lang attained such a masterful knowledge of computer systems. But in Marvel Premiere No. 47 and 48 (1979), we find out that Lang's spent time in jail for theft, which he committed while trying to support his family. Stark sees promise in Lang and hires him, but Lang ultimately reverts to his life of crime because his daughter has a heart condition and he can't afford the treatment she needs:
Marvel Premiere No. 47. (Marvel via Overmental)
http://overmental.com/content/funny-books-introducing-the-new-ant-man-marvel-premiere-47-48-1424
Through a convoluted plot, Lang steals Pym's Ant-Man armor and attains the ability to change his size, communicate with ants, and eventually save the doctor who can help his daughter. At that point, Pym — who's actually been watching Lang the whole time — says Lang can keep the armor, so long as he continues to use it for good:
Marvel Premiere No. 48. (Marvel via Overmental)
http://overmental.com/content/funny-books-introducing-the-new-ant-man-marvel-premiere-47-48-1424
While Pym's legacy is marred by domestic abuse and a litany of failures, Lang's is built on the expectation that even if he doesn't always behave like a model citizen, he'll do anything for his family. In that sense, Lang is quite an atypical Marvel character, too.
His greatest worry — that something bad might happen to his daughter — is more intimate than Tony Stark's fear of global war, more grounded than Thor's quest to be honorable, and more realized than Captain America and Black Widow's different but shared internalization of feeling out of place. Given Marvel's stable of other heroes, it's likely they all want to save humanity. But with Lang, you get the idea that he'd be willing to risk humanity to save his daughter. Consequently, while he may not have the tragedy and toxicity of Pym, he still brings something unique to the Avengers.
Shrinking and talking to ants aren't exactly the most desirable of superpowers. Ant-Man's skill set ranks far below flying, invisibility, and telekinesis; indeed, it barely registers above the unique ability boasted by Snot, a mutant with the ability to produce copious amounts of mucus. There are plenty of other Avengers (She-Hulk, Moon Knight, Spectrum, Luke Cage, Nova, Valkyrie, etc.) whose powers and personalities would make for much more scintillating movies.
Marvel's executives knew this, but ultimately, the character's lack of flashiness didn't matter because Ant-Man got its start as one of Stan Lee's pet projects. In Sean Howe's Marvel Comics: The Untold Story, Howe explains that Lee just wouldn't stop pitching a film based on the character, who was one of his favorites. As William Rabkin, a script evaluator for New World entertainment — the company that bought Marvel in 1986 — told Howe:
Stan Lee loved Ant-Man beyond all reason, and nobody ever gave a damn … He was always on about Ant-Man; he wanted an Ant-Man script in the worst way. I had been arguing against Ant-Man because, let’s face it, he can shrink down, go through a keyhole, and look at secret papers in a desk drawer and that’s it. It’s pretty boring.
Rabkin isn't wrong. When your canon also features anthropomorphic raccoons who traverse space with talking trees, Eastern European twins blessed with super speed and telekinesis, and a demigod who can control the weather, a guy who can make himself tiny doesn't seem all that spectacular. As Howe explains, the first iteration of an Ant-Man movie was developed 26 years ago, around 1989, and only came about because executives thought they could beat Disney to the punch of a shrinking story:
"Lee said, "We were just talking about Ant-Man!"
"What’s that?"
"He can shrink down like . . . this!"
Rehme thought for a minute. Disney was about to make Teenie Weenies. If New World rushed Ant-Man into production, no one would ever know who had the idea first.
"That’s brilliant!" Rehme said.
Vroop! He was out of the room, and Ant-Man went into development. Teenie Weenies was eventually released as Honey, I Shrunk the Kids."
Making Ant-Man in an attempt to corner the Honey I Shrunk the Kids market sounds like one of Hank Pym's more harebrained ideas. And considering the complications regarding Pym, Ant-Man's lackluster abilities, and a smaller, familial setting, there are more reasons not to make an Ant-Man movie than there are to make one.
Yet here we are, 26 years or so after those initial pitches, with a Marvel blockbuster  gamble built on a broken, tiny man, who has no business starring in his own movie. The character isn't a one-off. He'll impact the rest of the Marvel Cinematic Universe with an appearance in Captain America: Civil War, and he may even show up in Infinity War, Marvel's two-part grand finale. Ant-Man will also push Marvel in a new direction, as it's more of a comedic heist movie than one about a world that needs saving. So much for starting small.
Ant-Man isn't the hero we need right now, or one that we particularly want. But just like the Ant-Man of the comics, he'll be integral to Marvel's master plan — whether he deserves to be or not.
Now that San Diego Comic-Con has once again come and gone, all that's left of the annual four-day event are the trailers and teases released by various movie studios and TV networks to build buzz for the films and shows they'll be releasing in the coming weeks and months.

While the Comic-Con-friendly blockbusters understandably dominated the weekend buzz — a predictable outcome when dealing with properties like Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice, Star Wars, Suicide Squad, Deadpool, and X-Men: Apocalypse — there was a lot of great new television on tap, too. Below, I've compiled a sampling of the nine most "interesting" TV trailers to come out of this year's convention, some of them for better and some of them for worse.

Starz is hoping to continue its rise to pay-cable worthiness with this small-screen continuation of Sam Raimi's 1981 cult horror flick Evil Dead and its sequels. The show is not only helmed by Raimi himself but once again brings back original franchise star Bruce Campbell as Ashley "Ash" J. Williams, the films' chainsaw-armed hero. When the series begins, a Deadite plague is poised to destroy all of mankind, forcing Ash to return to the fight — and in a stellar bit of casting, Lucy Lawless is joining the fray as a woman named Ruby who blames Ash for the new outbreaks of evil. The fun begins on Halloween, when the 10-episode first season debuts, and so far, all signs point to "treat" rather than "trick."

I'm highly skeptical of NBC's decision to reboot — errr, "rebirth" — this show about "ordinary people with extraordinary abilities," especially given its rapid fall from grace in its first incarnation and the state of sci-fi programming on network TV. However: I can't help but feel a little intrigued by Zachary Levi's new villain character and Reborn's getting-the-gang-back-together promise, as Jack Coleman, Masi Oka, Greg Grunberg, and more will all reprise their roles from the original series.

Ridiculously stupid title and my fatigue with the original series be damned — I've been hearing this Walking Dead spinoff described as "Parenthood, but with zombies," which does hold some promise. Set in the same world as AMC's hit drama (which also debuted a new trailer at Comic-Con) but devoted to chronicling the early days of the zombie apocalypse rather than it aftermath, Fear the Walking Dead will debut August 23 and lead into The Walking Dead's sixth season in October. Here's hoping it'll surprise us by doing something innovative with its portrayal of the rise of flesh-eating monsters as the virus begins to take hold.

Lost co-creator Carlton Cuse is reuniting with former Lost star Josh Holloway for Colony, which is also set in an overrun version of the City of Angels. In this case, the threat is "occupation by a force of outside intruders" (read: aliens), and Holloway's character must decide whether to cooperate with the new "authorities" (read again: aliens) or rebel. The series, which is expected to debut in October, looks ... just okay so far. My first impression is that it's going to be skippable, especially because USA isn't exactly known as a purveyor of this type of programming, but I'll give it a shot for a few episodes, at least.

Here's your first look at what Sons of Anarchy creator Kurt Sutter has been up to since the FX biker drama rode off into the sunset in December: creating an FX period piece that's ... not totally unlike the FX biker drama, except for the parts where he swaps motorcycles for swords and leather vests for suits of armor. The series — which centers on a knight (True Blood's Stephen Moyer) who works for King Edward I — still contains plenty of death, violence, and Katey Sagal, three of Sutter's favorite things.

Robert Kirkman is on quite a tear. His comics have already spawned not one but two TV shows in The Walking Dead and the aforementioned Fear the Walking Dead, and now another one of his works, Outcast, is being adapted for the small screen, as well. The exorcism-themed odyssey revolves around a man who teams up with a reverend to figure out the cause of the demonic possession he's been afflicted by all his life; look for it in 2016.

A sequel to the 1976 film The Omen, Damien comes from former Walking Dead showrunner Glen Mazzara and purports to follow the 30-year-old title character as he comes to terms with the fact that he's the Antichrist. The series will fill in the blanks of what he's been up to for the past 25 years (in part by ignoring everything that happened in The Omen's two sequels), with plenty of callbacks to the original movie.

There won't be any zombies, aliens, or demons to speak of in this new AMC drama, which should already be enough to pique the interest of viewers who've grown tired of supernatural monsters. Instead, expect a whole lot of kicking, punching, and martial arts-ing when the six-episode drama about a badass warrior named Sunny debuts this November.

Okay, this one isn't for a new show, but who can resist the cheeky banter of Benedict Cumberbatch and Martin Freeman, especially since Sherlock's fourth season is still at least a year away? This first look at the Victorian-era-set one-off (though Sherlock usually takes place in modern times, the 90-minute episode is set more than a century ago) earns bonus points for pretty snow, the return of Watson's mustache, and Mrs. Hudson standing up for herself as a landlady, "not a plot device."
I should have been watching the Major League Baseball All-Star Game on Tuesday night.
I'm a former college baseball player. I've attended two Midsummer Classics — Camden Yards in '93 and Fenway Park in '99. I even went to a major league stadium on Tuesday night: Nationals Park in Washington, DC. And if you follow pop music the way I follow baseball, you just discovered my secret.
I charged a Taylor Swift ticket to my man card. And it was worth it.
She's a class act who puts on a great show and manages to deliver messages about self-worth and self-empowerment while touching on universal struggles that anyone can relate to, no matter their demographic. Yeah, I'm proud to call myself a Taylor Swift fan.
I should start at the beginning.
My wife was a little surprised last winter when I called to say I was planning to buy four seats to see T-Swift, or TS, or Shifty Swifty, or whatever the kids are calling her these days. We've been together for a dozen years and had never been to a major concert together. The last act we'd seen as a couple was Gordon Lightfoot.
At first, I lied to her — and to myself. I had priority access to buy the tickets because I'm a Washington Nationals season ticket holder, and I reasoned that it only made sense to take advantage of the opportunity. Surely we could hock them at a profit, I told Stephanie. Or perhaps sell them to friends at face value.
Worst-case scenario, I said, we'd just go with another couple and chalk it up in the "new experience" column. Stephanie was all in for the Taylor tickets, and I suspect she knew something that I wasn't fully ready to admit to myself: I wanted to go.
Taylor Swift performs at Nationals Park in Washington, DC, July 14, 2015.
Jonathan Allen/Vox
The recurring device of Swift's big hit songs is a character who is shunned, and whose love is often unrequited, because of her perceived flaws. Usually the character ends up comfortable in her own skin, whether or not she gains the acceptance she seeks. This theme isn't unique to Swift; it's a staple of music, literature, and film. There might even be a Gregorian chant along these lines.
I think the main reason I like Swift's lyrics is that I find her characters so easy to identify with. That may sound strange because she's usually writing about women, or at least from the perspective of a woman. But her characters' struggles are universal, and she's vivid in her descriptions. The contrasts between high heels and sneakers, or a cheerleader and a fan, are evocative.
I can remember, back in high school, wondering why a certain girl was head over heels for another guy when I thought — and prayed — we'd make a better match. I suspect most adults have similar experiences and now smile at the memory of what was once so painful because it has been overcome, because they've grown more comfortable with themselves.
In the music video for "You Belong With Me," Swift is looking in the mirror when she sings, "What you're looking for has been here the whole time."

Don't get me wrong: I don't want to ascribe some super-deep meaning to pop songs. Just the opposite. Swift is an effective messenger because what she's saying is simple, straightforward, and inclusive. That gives her a lot of influence, particularly with girls and young women, and she should be applauded for reinforcing positive messages about self-worth.
I already mentioned that I felt a little dent in my man card when I bought the tickets. As the date of the show approached, I became a little more apprehensive about what going to a Taylor Swift show said about me. That's all tied up in the politics of masculinity. Guys spend a lot of time trying to out-macho each other, and one way in which they do so is to challenge each other's manliness.
For example, I played American Legion baseball with a guy who, every time one of his teammates failed on the field, would shout at the top of his lungs, "Lift your skirt, Alice." None of them was named Alice, and all of them were on his team. Thankfully, this behavior stopped abruptly when he struck out one day and was greeted by a chorus of "Lift your skirt" from the mothers of his fellow players.
I suspected I would take some gentle ribbing from my friends for volunteering to go to teenybopper land to hear a pop diva, and I did. Usually just a smirk or a raised eyebrow. When I tweeted a picture of the stage Tuesday night, one of my friends tweeted at me, "Taylor Swift > all star game?" None of it was ugly. We're all adults. But the risk that testosterone levels will permanently drop upon entrance to a Taylor Swift show is as commonly understood among many men of my demographic as it is untrue. Though I did notice that when I went to a restroom equipped to handle about 40 men at a time, only three were there. At the same time, lines for the women's bathrooms spilled out onto the concourse.
There were other signs that Stephanie and I — who were joined by Stephanie's friend Erika and my sister, Amanda — were a little out of place heading into the concert. For starters, when I picked up Steph at home, she was wearing a Diane von Furstenberg dress. I guess DVF will "never go out of style" — but to a ballpark for a pop concert? We had dinner at a nice Italian restaurant near the stadium, like good little yuppies. Before the show started, Stephanie and Erika started talking about leaving early. And the merchandise stands didn't have any T-shirts in my size.
I haven't seen a lot of live musical acts, but I can say I've never seen anyone — not the Dead, not U2, not the Who, and not Lenny Kravitz (all of whom are great at crowd interaction) — put as much energy into wrapping the audience into the show as Taylor Swift did.
There were threats of severe thundershowers. Swift came out on stage almost an hour earlier than we expected, having asked her warmup acts to truncate their performances to try to get in the show before the rains. One fun wrinkle on this tour is that she keeps bringing out other stars to sing their top hits. We got to see Jason Derulo perform "Want to Want Me."
For "You Belong With Me," she grabbed a guitar and made her way out to the end of an enormous plank that ran deep into the crowd, playing and singing without accompaniment. She knew how to emphasize a top hit by letting the crowd join her in singing.
She played for two hours without any real lull. I didn't care for the interludes when she spoke to the crowd about self-worth, but, as I noted above, I see the value in them. And she ended on an electric note, punctuated with fireworks, by singing "Shake It Off" as her encore.
By the end of the concert, this 39-year-old ex-jock felt pretty included. So, as I think about the All-Star Game I missed, and the potential humiliation of calling myself a Taylor Swift fan, this is what I've concluded: "The players gonna play, play, play, play, play and the haters gonna hate, hate, hate, hate, hate (haters gonna hate). I'm just gonna shake, shake, shake, shake, shake. I shake it off."
And when I attend the 2018 All-Star Game at Nationals Park, I'll have a fond memory of the Taylor Swift show I saw there.
Reddit, one of the most popular sites on the internet and a social media platform that is almost entirely user-driven, has been in open revolt since June. Last week, that revolt culminated with the dismissal of CEO Ellen Pao.

Reddit's users thought they'd won victory for their values of free speech absolutism and resistance against the political correctness culture of oppression.
And then they learned they were wrong.
Late on Tuesday, a prior CEO of Reddit, Yishan Wong, posted on the site that the users were mistaken. In fact, he said, they had ousted their best ally in Reddit's culture of free speech absolutism — and that Reddit's culture had become so toxic and hateful that the hammer was about to come down.
Wong wrote that "[w]hat all the white-power racist-sexist neckbeards don't understand" is that Pao "probably would have tolerated your existence so long as you didn't cause any problems," and her presence atop the site would actually have protected Reddit from further censorship.
Wong seemed to suggest the experiment in a wild, consequence-free, purely user-driven Reddit had failed: "We tried to let you govern yourselves and you failed, so now The Man is going to set some Rules."
Wong's full comment is below — it's quite something to read, and feels like vindication for those of us who enjoy Reddit's non-hateful communities but have found the site increasingly intolerable for its ever-growing emphasis on overt misogyny and harassment.
It is a doozy:
AYYYYYY LMAO
How's everyone doing? This is AWESOME!
There's something I neglected to tell you all this time ("executive privilege"), but I'm declassifying a lot of things these days. Back around the time of the /r/creepshots debacle, I wrote to /u/spez for advice. I had met him shortly after I had taken the job, and found him to be a great guy. Back in the day when reddit was small, the areas he oversaw were engineering, product, and the business aspects - those are the same things I tend to focus on in a company (each CEO has certain areas of natural focus, and hires others to oversee the rest). As a result, we were able to connect really well and have a lot of great conversations - talking to him was really valuable.
Well, when things were heating around the /r/creepshots thing and people were calling for its banning, I wrote to him to ask for advice. The very interesting thing he wrote back was "back when I was running things, if there was anything racist, sexist, or homophobic I'd ban it right away. I don't think there's a place for such things on reddit. Of course, now that reddit is much bigger, I understand if maybe things are different."
I've always remembered that email when I read the occasional posting here where people say "the founders of reddit intended this to be a place for free speech." Human minds love originalism, e.g. "we're in trouble, so surely if we go back to the original intentions, we can make things good again." Sorry to tell you guys but NO, that wasn't their intention at all ever. Sucks to be you, /r/coontown - I hope you enjoy voat!
The free speech policy was something I formalized because it seemed like the wiser course at the time. It's worth stating that in that era, we were talking about whether it was ok for people to post creepy pictures of women taken legally in public. That's shitty, but it's a far cry from the extremes of hate that some parts of the site host today. It seemed that allowing creepers to post (anonymized) pictures of women taken in public, in a relatively small subreddit that never showed up on the front page, was a small price to pay for making it clear that we were a place welcoming of all opinions and discourse.
Having made that decision - much of reddit's current condition is on me. I didn't anticipate what (some) redditors would decide to do with freedom. reddit has become a lot bigger - yes, a lot better - AND a lot worse. I have to take responsibility.
But... the most delicious part of this is that on at least two separate occasions, the board pressed /u/ekjp to outright ban ALL the hate subreddits in a sweeping purge. She resisted, knowing the community, claiming it would be a shitshow. Ellen isn't some "evil, manipulative, out-of-touch incompetent she-devil" as was often depicted. She was approved by the board and recommended by me because when I left, she was the only technology executive anywhere who had the chops and experience to manage a startup of this size, AND who understood what reddit was all about. As we can see from her post-resignation activity, she knows perfectly well how to fit in with the reddit community and is a normal, funny person - just like in real life - she simply didn't sit on reddit all day because she was busy with her day job.
Ellen was more or less inclined to continue upholding my free-speech policies. /r/fatpeoplehate was banned for inciting off-site harassment, not discussing fat-shaming. What all the white-power racist-sexist neckbeards don't understand is that with her at the head of the company, the company would be immune to accusations of promoting sexism and racism: she is literally Silicon Valley's #1 Feminist Hero, so any "SJWs" would have a hard time attacking the company for intentionally creating a bastion (heh) of sexist/racist content. She probably would have tolerated your existence so long as you didn't cause any problems - I know that her long-term strategies were to find ways to surface and publicize reddit's good parts - allowing the bad parts to exist but keeping them out of the spotlight. It would have been very principled - the CEO of reddit, who once sued her previous employer for sexual discrimination, upholds free speech and tolerates the ugly side of humanity because it is so important to maintaining a platform for open discourse. It would have been unassailable.
Well, now she's gone (you did it reddit!), and /u/spez has the moral authority as a co-founder to move ahead with the purge. We tried to let you govern yourselves and you failed, so now The Man is going to set some Rules. Admittedly, I can't say I'm terribly upset.

This started when Pao banned a subsection of the site, r/fatpeoplehate, that was dedicated to mocking and promoting real-world harassment of obese people. I really cannot overstate how breathtakingly awful this community was, and the degree to which it has real-life consequences for its victims. Nor was it some tiny subreddit: The community had 150,000 active subscribers. In response to the ban, many thousands of the site's users turned against Pao.
Reddit's chaotic, user-driven platform has long been home to a lot of great stuff, but also to a lot of hateful and harassing material. Two particularly popular genres of Reddit discourse are posting photos of nude or semi-nude women without their permission and promoting hatred of certain groups, most frequently feminist women. A third popular genre of Reddit discourse is angrily insisting on an absolutist free speech right to do as they please, no matter the consequences for their targets.
Among the most frequent targets of ire across Reddit are feminists and "social justice warriors," which refers to anyone who seeks gender, racial, and/or other forms of equality. After the banning of Fat People Hate, Ellen Pao, who was known for suing a previous employer for gender-based discrimination, became Reddit public enemy number one.
For some of Reddit's users, Pao was a social justice warrior who clearly sought gender equity — which is to say, the embodiment of everything they hate — and a threat to their fiercely guarded right to use Reddit as a platform for hate and harassment. And so they responded to this perceived threat to their right of harassment by targeting Pao, the villain, with vicious and frequent hate on the site, which often explicitly targeted her for her gender and implicitly for her race.
In early July, a popular Reddit employee named Victoria Taylor got fired under unclear circumstances. The user revolt grew, culminating in many popular subsections of the site temporarily shutting down (the subsections are run by user volunteers rather than formal employees). Users made it clear they would not accept Pao, with many thousands signing petitions calling for her dismissal, and a little over a week later she was gone.
Reddit's users thought they had won a crushing victory against Ellen Pao, the "SJW piece of shit," as one extremely popular Reddit comment described her. Well, Yishan Wong says they got this one all wrong, and that as a result their campaign was going to leave them more exposed than ever to the dreaded scourge of censorship.
Warning: I’m about to thoroughly spoil several aspects of True Detective season two, episode four. If you haven’t watched "Down Will Come," look away!
With four episodes under its belt, True Detective's second season is still all about man problems, and "Down Will Come" didn't do much to buck the trend.
The show has been stumbling forward with some shaky script work from writer Nic Pizzolatto, especially with regard to delivering exposition and crafting colloquial slang that sounds like something people would actually say. (Last week's "You ain’t that thing no more. What you used to was" was a stretch. Who says that? Find me one gangster who speaks that way.)
In that sense, "Down Will Come" is more of the same, for the most part. But the episode sets some events in motion that could mean an interesting turn from the humdrum of angsty men and clunky line reading.
Last week’s "Maybe Tomorrow" ended on a high note, with Ani and Ray chasing a masked man who torched their car. The scene provided some slick action and cast the villain as very close and very real, but it was an empty sequence that didn’t do much for the plot, all things considered. This week’s concluding shootout makes up for that by a mile.
For one thing, it's a total disaster. In an attempt to learn more about a woman who pawned Caspere’s watch, the crew winds up in a full-on firefight with drug dealers. With much more firepower than the cops, the suspects wind up killing most of the police — as well as quite a few civilian bystanders — before they’re gunned down. Only our three main detectives live.
And they haven’t been on the best of terms with their superiors throughout the course of the investigation so far. Ani is facing a harassment complaint from the officer in her department whom she's been hooking up with, and she’s convinced Mayor Chessani has something to do with it, too. Ray’s being investigated for corruption. Paul is dealing with war crime accusations from his time in the military and is still in trouble for allegedly soliciting a blowjob from an actress he pulled over on the highway.
It all plays out very similarly to the scene in episode five of True Detective's first season, when Rust and Marty sneak into Reggie Ledoux’s property to try to detain the man they think might be their suspect. Right after handcuffing Ledoux, Marty finds kids locked up in Ledoux’s drug lab, and shoots Ledoux in the head in a blind rage. To cover up the hotheaded mistake, they frame the scene as if there had been a gunfight.
The whole ordeal was an incredible testament to how little we could trust Rust and Marty as narrators, and that made for really interesting storytelling. We got to see how their narratives were twisted with subjectivity, edited to keep their records straight and their stories clean.
Once again, True Detective's main players have suffered a major setback with a big screwup. But this time around, it’s going to be a bit tougher for them to cover their tracks. Indeed, they don't have much leeway: The body count is huge, and director Jeremy Podeswa doesn’t dance around the brute scale of the violence. The final seconds of the hour dedicate a good chunk of time to letting the "well, shit" feeling sink in properly.
The firefight could be season two's tipping point: From here, there's a strong chance our lead trio might be kicked off the case in one way or another. If that happens, fans should be excited — it could mean an obsessive, off-the-books investigation, similar to what we had the first season — and that would make for an excellent twist.

"Down Will Come" kicks off with the Semyons, grumpy because their garden can’t produce avocados and they can’t produce a kid. Fatherhood is Frank’s secret shame, a crucial part of his tightly maintained macho exterior. He has some telling viewpoints on adoption as "doing somebody else’s time," and it goes to show just how much being a dad means to his public image.
Later, Paul meets up with his girlfriend at a late-night diner, where she tells him she’s pregnant. He’s happy, or at least he seems to be, and they bury the hatchet with a kiss.
The show is starting to use fatherhood as a big frame of reference for its characters’ vices and demons. For Ray, fatherhood gives him a reason to clean up his act; for Frank, it’s a testament to his need for masculine control and assertive power; for Paul, it’s the struggle to live up to his idea of a traditional family man when his sexuality begs otherwise.
Everywhere else, fatherhood plots are just doing their best to move the story forward. An interrogation of Mayor Chessani’s daughter at a hookah bar ends with her calling her father a bad man. Ani takes another trip to her dad’s hippie yoga resort for some scattered clues.
It’s probably working out the clumsiest for Frank. One of the first things True Detective did really well in season one was take major actors we weren't expecting to be great — rom-com doofus Matthew McConaughey, for instance — and inventing engaging, believable characters for them. Vince Vaughn has posed that same challenge this season, but the formula isn't working its magic: It's hard to feel intimidated when he taunts fellow mobsters by talking about his pristine dental history.

I have to admit, Ani Bezzerides and Paul Woodrugh are the only two characters holding season two together for me so far. They’re complex, they have good backstories, and they don’t suffer from the ills of iffy dialogue as much as Frank and Ray do. "Down Will Come" did a good job of keeping up that momentum.
For starters, Ani gets suspended for having a relationship with one of her subordinate officers. She’s quick to call out the chief — this wouldn’t be happening to a male detective, she says — though it doesn’t do her any good.
However, at least it’s a plot that relies on the unique struggles she faces as a woman, and that’s an awesome change of pace for a show that has often let its women sink into the background. Most of the time, they're more setup for male relationships than anything else — think of how little we see of Ray’s ex-wife or how little we see of Paul’s girlfriend except when she's waiting at home in bed for him.
In the meantime, Paul wakes up hungover in a stranger’s house, only to discover that he slept with his buddy from the Army, Miguel. He doesn’t remember much of the experience, and he storms out.
From there, things only get worse for him. He takes a cab to his hotel, where his motorcycle has been stolen and a posse of reporters are waiting for him, asking about war crime allegations from his time at Black Mountain.
He’s hit a new low, and catches a ride from Ray, where the two share one of season two's best car-ride dialogues yet. They speak honestly about their demons, but they dance around the specifics and forge some common ground because of it. "I just don’t know how to be out in the world," Paul tells Ray. They’re living in two totally separate universes, but they can connect on that much.
Previous episode

There are three big takeaways from the Suicide Squad trailer: Harley Quinn (Margot Robbie) is set as the main protagonist; Amanda Waller (Viola Davis) expounds on the premise of the group; and the Joker (Jared Leto) is seen presumably torturing someone.
"Getting people to act against their own self-interest is what I do for a living," Waller says, explaining that the Suicide Squad will be a ragtag group of villains who carry out complicated and covert operations that bend the rules of justice. If something goes wrong, this Suicide Squad  will be blamed.
Robbie's Harley Quinn draws the most focus after being introduced to us in a beautiful, dreamy, slightly psychotic shot where Quinn is in a cell performing acrobatics and suspended in the air by what looks like shredded rags.
"Are you the devil?" Quinn asks Waller.
"All you need to know is you work for me," she responds.
We see various scenes of the team being assembled, fighting, and posing, and then Leto's Joker arrives in all his pale, tattooed glory.
"I'm just gonna hurt you — really, really, bad," he says, as the trailer fades to black.
Update: Warner Bros. has released the official footage
In this look at X-Men: Apocalypse, we see the return of Moira MacTaggert (Rose Byrne), who is explaining that mutants in olden days were seen as gods. Of course, she's talking about Apocalypse (Oscar Isaacs), who we find out has the power to control other mutants.
The trailer provides glimpses of all of the new mutants, including Jean Grey (Sophie Turner), Storm (Alexandra Shipp), and Psylocke (Olivia Munn) as well as franchise stalwarts Magneto (Michael Fassbender), Charles Xavier (James McAvoy), and Mystique (Jennifer Lawrence).
Because Apocalypse can control mutants, the trailer becomes a guessing game of which side we think the mutants belong to. And the bad news for the good guys is that Magneto and Storm look to be on Apocalypse's side.
"You're a fighter. We can give you abilities most men only dream of — make you a superhero," the voiceover to the Deadpool trailer (above) begins.
The highlight of the Deadpool trailer is that it sets up its irreverent, humorous antihero Deadpool (Ryan Reynolds) against the high drama of a superhero movie. We see that Deadpool is experimented on, but we also see him cracking jokes the entire time.
It's funny, there are f-bombs, there's Salt-N-Pepa, and there's a real attempt to really make a superhero movie that doesn't feel like a superhero movie. There are also more special effects — a lot of which look like test footage — in this trailer than there are in the other two.
Update: Fox's two leaked trailer were taken down on Tuesday.
On Saturday, Warner Bros. premiered a brand new Batman v. Superman: Dawn of Justice trailer at San Diego Comic-Con.
This second trailer feels like a direct response to the leaked initial trailer which came with a plethora of quibbles and skepticism. There's more action, more take-your-breath-away moments, and our first look at Wonder Woman (Gal Gadot) in action:

Warner Bros.
The most difficult task facing this movie is getting Superman's (Henry Cavill) persona right. He isn't a "dark" character. Rather, Clark Kent/Superman/Kal-El is a figure that represents hope. And this is why Man of Steel, the 2013 Superman reboot, felt off — you had Superman in fights that leveled buildings and destroyed Metropolis (something Superman wouldn't do).
There's a concerted effort in the trailer to establish this persona. We find out the government is really mad at him, and that it's turning to Lex Luthor (Jesse Eisenberg) for help. There are voiceovers from Lois Lane (Amy Adams) and Clark's mother (Diane Lane) explaining that he doesn't owe Metropolis a thing, and that he is a hero, no matter what people say. But since Superman is Superman, he can't just walk away without trying to help the people that hate him.
And there are also shots like this one with Superman coming down from the heavens, bathed in sunlight, to establish him as a hopeful presence:

Warner Bros.
The other part of this equation is why Batman, a good guy, would be fighting Superman, another good guy. In the comic book The Dark Knight Returns, it's established that Superman is a government lackey and reluctantly fights Batman — they don't have animosity toward each other, they just are doing what they think is right.
It's a little different in Batman v. Superman. There's a pronounced 9/11 feel to our introduction of Bruce Wayne (Ben Affleck), who we see running through a city and seeing what appears to be Wayne tower crumble and come crashing down thanks to Superman's fight:

(Warner Bros.)
We don't know what or who is in that tower that's so important, but it prompts Bruce Wayne to run into the crashing building head on:

(Warner Bros.)
And we also see what appears to be some goading from the Joker:

(Warner Bros.)
So mix Batman's anger about Superman's uncontrollable destruction, his past trauma about his parents being killed and not being able to do anything about it, and some not-so-gentle ribbing with the word "joke" in it, and you get a Batman that's ready to brawl an invincible hero:

(Warner Bros.)
It'll make for a good fight scene or two:

(Warner Bros.)
One pressing question that we didn't get an answer for is how Wonder Woman factors into this fight. You might think someone who is an Amazon blessed with god-like strength would see the anti-Superman hate and want to keep a low profile.
But that would be a boring movie.
We see two shots of Wonder Woman fighting. The first (above) has her brandishing her famous bracelets and releasing some kind of force. The second looks like she's taking a punch, and to show off her badassery, she shakes it off like it's nothing:

(Warner Bros.)
Again, how Wonder Woman fits into this universe or story is still a mystery. But she looks fit to fight.
This one:

(Warner Bros.)
If you're a gamer, there's a very good chance Satoru Iwata had a big impact on your life.
Iwata, the president of Nintendo, died of cancer on July 11. He was 55.
Iwata was an enormous force not just at Nintendo, but in gaming. He led Nintendo through the eras of the GameCube, Wii, DS, 3DS, and Wii U, and he worked on "Earthbound," "Pokemon," "Kirby," "The Legend of Zelda," "Smash Bros.," and countless other titles. These are consoles and games that filled my childhood with joy, and which I spent literally thousands of hours playing. The games alone account for some of the biggest successes in the industry, and many of their sequels continue to entertain millions of people around the world.
Even as he rose through the ranks of HAL Laboratory and later Nintendo, Iwata always struck me as someone who genuinely cared about the joy of gaming more than anything else. In 2005, when speaking at the Game Developers Conference, Iwata reflected on his time heading HAL, which developed "Smash Bros." He noted that the moment of success for him wasn't when the original Nintendo 64 version of "Smash Bros." and its sequels sold millions of companies worldwide, but rather the first time testers picked up the game and provided proof it was fun:
I also remember the first version of "Smash Bros." developed for Nintendo 64. The concept for this game, as you know, was to take the classic, friendly Nintendo franchise characters and have them — as you say in America — beat the heck out of each other. The ideas not brand new — there certainly have been a lot of fighting games. And the characters looked pretty much the same way they always had. So when we brought the idea to Nintendo, the concept did not sound hip or cool or revolutionary. And because of all this, there were people both inside and outside Nintendo who did not strongly favor the idea. And this was the environment that we worked under.
That attitude remained until the moment of truth — the moment when testers began picking up the controllers and actually playing the game. This is what happened. People smiled. They laughed. Then began shouting at each other. That was the moment when everything for "Smash Bros." changed. And I must tell you, this was also one of the proudest moments in my development career. Yes, the "Smash Bros." series has become a great worldwide success because it's sold more than 10 million copies. But the memory of that first moment when the testers began to play stays with me always. That is the moment I call success.
We at HAL found a way to bring our idea to life. Our team believed deeply in the concept and we did not waver in our approach. So in this important sense, we at HAL — we're just like every one of you. Even if we come from different sides of the world, speak different languages, even if we eat too many chips or rice balls, even if we have different tastes in games, every one of us here today is identical in the most important way: each one of us has the heart of a gamer.
These comments are how I'll always remember Iwata — as someone who wasn't afraid to innovate, but who always strived to put gamers first in all his work.
Rest in peace, Mr. Iwata, and thank you for all the joy you brought to my life.
Doctor Who, that addictive British television series that isn't Sherlock, made a splash at San Diego Comic-Con on Thursday with a season nine premiere date — September 19 — and a new trailer in hand. The main highlight: Game of Thrones' Maisie Williams has a good, chunky cameo in the clip, but it's a mystery as to what role she'll play on the show when she drops by as a guest star.

The Doctor Who panel at SDCC was an interesting one if you've been holding on to the hope of someday seeing the show helmed by a female Doctor — a topic that fans discussed at length when Matt Smith left the role at the end of season seven and was ultimately replaced by Peter Capaldi. When showrunner Steven Moffat was asked about the possibility, he had this vague answer:
"Well, I think my opinion is fairly obvious from the show, isn't it?" he said. "What [do] I think about the possibility and whether it would work or not? I think I've expressed myself about as clearly as I could, in the context of the show. If you're not reading the subtext, then I'll lend you. But believe me, some people aren't reading that subtext, 'cause it's too subtle."
Vulture initially took those words and interpreted that Moffat believes the Doctor shouldn't be portrayed by a woman. Moffat does have a history of saying sexist stuff. But fans have disagreed with that interpretation, saying that Moffatt is hinting that a female Doctor is possible.
Update: Vulture has changed its report regarding Moffatt's comments — the site painted his comments are ambiguous and more negative toward the idea of a female Doctor. I've also heard from fans at SDCC who attended the panel and believe Moffatt implied that a female Doctor was a possibility. This piece has been updated to reflect that.
As previously announced, there was no new trailer for Star Wars: Episode VII — The Force Awakens. Instead, the crew brought with them a behind-the-scenes video, which is kinda magical in its own way:

We're going in! A video just revealed at @Comic_Con takes you behind the scenes of #StarWars: TheForceAwakens. #SDCC https://t.co/ASq8xrIKrF


The video captures the joy of the people in front of and behind the camera and the appreciation they have for the opportunity to work on such an iconic franchise. It treats Star Wars more like an experience than a movie, and for the fans in SDCC's Hall H, that's exactly what it was.
At San Diego Comic-Con, there's a tendency to always be looking forward in anticipation of the next big thing. But at the Star Wars panel, the Lucasfilm powers that be reunited Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher, and Mark Hamill, the main cast from the original movies. Ford, if you recall, was in a serious plane crash in March and hasn't been seen in public since then.
The trio, according to reports, bantered, recited old jokes, and reminisced about the friendship they forged while filming the first three movies. For fans, seeing the three Star Wars legends together and genuinely enjoying each other's company was as thrilling, if not more so, as any of the new footage from or news about the new film:

"I'm fine! I walked here!" Harrison Ford says. #StarWars pic.twitter.com/LZSe6qm6t2


When President Obama met the director of Game of Thrones' shocking season five finale recently, he had a very important question: "You didn't kill Jon Snow, did you?'"
According to the director himself, David Nutter, Nutter responded by telling the president, "Jon Snow is deader than dead." Obama griped, "You keep killing off my favorite characters."
Nutter first recounted the story to Entertainment Weekly's James Hibberd on Friday before telling it again at a San Diego Comic-Con panel. Could this be final confirmation that Jon Snow is gone for good? Or could the Game of Thrones creative team's desire for secrecy be so intense that they'll even go so far as to mislead the president of the United States?

My money's on the latter, for a few reasons. First of all, insisting Jon is dead doesn't go further than what showrunners David Benioff and D. B. Weiss have already said. Benioff has referred to the "death of Jon Snow," and Weiss has said that "dead is dead." The question most fans have isn't whether Jon Snow is dead. It's whether he'll magically return from the dead, through Melisandre's powers or some other means. Nutter's answer sheds no light on that.
Second, though Nutter's title as a Game of Thrones director may seem impressive, he only helms certain episodes of the series, does so in a way that carries out the showrunners' wishes, and isn't involved in the writing process at all. Indeed, he's not even returning to the show next year, and recently told Deadline that he has "no idea what happens at all in season six," calling it a "Dan [Weiss] and Dave [Benioff] question." So Nutter could simply be in the dark.
Third, there's the ongoing matter of Kit Harington's hair. To play Jon Snow, Harington keeps his hair quite long. Many have speculated that a conspicuously un-Jon-like haircut would count as confirmation that Harington has truly exited the show. Well, here's how the actor looked at Wimbledon last week:

Karwai Tang/WireImage/Getty
Now, I'm not a total truther. Nutter also told EW's Hibberd that Stannis Baratheon's offscreen death in the season five finale was a real one, which I do believe. But there are just so many story reasons to expect Jon Snow's return that I'm not buying Nutter's claims — even if he's making them to the leader of the free world.

Reddit is one of the 10 most visited websites in America. It's more popular than Netflix's cache of prestige television shows and more well-trafficked than millennial procrastination networks Instagram and Tumblr. There's a reason: Reddit is more frustrating, depressing, offensive, blissful, enlightening, and dramatic than any of those other sites combined. And now it's dealing with the fallout of another revolt, one that has claimed the head of CEO Ellen Pao.

Reddit's jagged history includes shaming and harassing fat people; helping to carve out the disgusting phenomenon known as "creep shots"; posting the cutest pictures of cats that you can find on the internet; creating explainers so good they make me want to throw my computer against the wall; and hosting various celebrities from all spheres of life (actors, scientists, politicians, viral sensations, etc.) for a series of posts known as AMAs (Ask Me Anything).
Those AMAs in particular have afforded Reddit a massive amount of cultural clout and, in recent weeks, have also been at the center of a sitewide meltdown. It started with the firing of a longtime employee, escalated into a mutinous display of solidarity, and ultimately ended with Pao's resignation. Reddit's users — the site's heart and guts — effectively brought one the biggest properties on the internet to standstill.
idc who calls the shots at reddit, they should've known rule #1 in their pr handbook was always VICTORIA STAYS pic.twitter.com/TXhnDXxOm5
Reading and posting to Reddit is generally a pretty anonymous experience. Countless people visit every day just to lurk in the site's many forums, and those who do post go by (typically silly) user names. Some of these people are Reddit's moderators, unpaid volunteers who make sure those forums (known as subreddits) stay on topic, run smoothly, and don't descend into mayhem.
Getting moderators on the same page as staffers who "run" Reddit is where a woman named Victoria Taylor came in. Taylor, a publicist, was hired by the site in 2013 as the director of communications. She was crucial to its operations because she was seen as a bridge between the Reddit community and its management team. As the Daily Beast reported:
She went by the handle /u/Chooter and liaised between the leaders of the Reddit's largest communities and their volunteer army of unpaid moderators. Most prominently, she legitimized Reddit’s popular "Ask Me Anything" feature and helped it go mainstream, making big name celebrities comfortable with the oft-confrontational Reddit hordes while lending veracity to the process for a readership that tends to skew skeptical.
Taylor's popularity and standing within the Reddit community became apparent during the Fourth of July weekend. Taylor was fired on July 2 for reasons that haven't been clarified. And in the days that followed, moderators began locking users out of various forums, and temporarily closing many of those subreddits to signal their dissatisfaction with Taylor's dismissal.
The affected subreddits were some of the most visited on the site. Reddit's popular Ask Me Anything forum (r/iama) was set to private — freezing out its more than 8 million subscribers. Other forums like Art (r/art), with 3 million subscribers, and Ask Reddit (r/askreddit), with 8.9 million subscribers, also went dark.
Taylor later posted her own response to her firing directly to Reddit. While she didn't reveal any details of why she was let go, she did thank users for their outpouring of support:
How was your weekend? Mine was...interesting, to say the least.
I’ve had some time to think about how to respond to the extraordinary kindness and support you’ve shown me. And here it is:
I’ll never forget my time at reddit. You allowed me to be a part of some of the greatest conversations of our time, and it was an honor to be your ambassador.
I just want to take a moment to say thank you to all of you who have reached out.
Thank you for everything you’ve given me. From your messages to your artwork, I am deeply moved and grateful beyond words, and your encouragement has meant more than you’ll ever know.
I’ve been incredibly humbled and honored to serve this community, and I truly believe all voices matter.
Your voices matter.
You proved that this weekend.
And really, this weekend wasn’t about me. It was about you. And if I know one thing about this community, it’s that you’ll continue making your voices heard. And that's an inspiration.
Reddit is a unique beast, and the way it's set up is the reason Taylor's firing has turned the site upside down. In many ways, Reddit is a dream media company; every day, hundreds of thousands of users generate fantastic pieces of content — including photos, videos, and memes — that get millions of clicks. That, in turn, attracts millions of dollars in ad revenue.
The best part of Reddit's business model, if you're a member of the site's management team, is that those users aren't paid. Reddit's users (known as redditors) are essentially creating and maintaining your product for you for free. But the drawback, as Pao and her fellow Reddit administrators learned in the aftermath of Taylor's firing, is that it requires the people in charge to be more transparent and forthright with redditors. Reddit's administrators weren't.
Taylor's firing came abruptly, and threw moderators who depended on her into a state of flux. Reddit user nallen, the moderator who manages Reddit's r/science forum, explained:
To back this up, I am the mod in /r/science that organizes all of the science AMAs, and I am going to have meaningful problems in the /r/Science AMAs, Victoria was the only line of communication with the admins. If someone wants to get analytics for an AMA the answer will be "Sorry, I can't help."
One major downside of how Reddit is structured is that the site's unpaid moderators and volunteers — the people generating and managing all the free content the site profits from  — hold the keys to the shop. Meaning they can, and, in response to Taylor's firing, effectively did, close down many popular areas of the site.
Restoring access to darkened subreddits requires cooperation between management and moderators. After Taylor was fired, subreddits were being shut down so rapidly that Reddit founder Alexis Ohanian tried to reason with moderators in a posting:
Your message was received loud and clear. The communication between Reddit and the moderators needs to improve dramatically. We will work closely with you all going forward to ensure events like today don’t happen again. At this point, however, the blackout has served its purpose, and now it’s time to get Reddit functioning again. I know many of you are still upset. We will continue to work through these issues with you all, but redditors don’t deserve to be punished any further over an issue that is ultimately between Reddit and the moderators.
Meanwhile, users were being deprived of a lot of content they take for granted. To give you an idea of the magnitude of the Reddit shutdown, here's a Google Trends chart that maps searches for "Reddit alternative" the day after Taylor's firing:
(Google)
After myriad forums went dark and Ohanian posted his plea, they slowly began appearing back online. Then, Pao wrote an apology to Reddit's users that specifically addressed the site's lack of transparency:
We screwed up. Not just on July 2, but also over the past several years. We haven’t communicated well, and we have surprised moderators and the community with big changes. We have apologized and made promises to you, the moderators and the community, over many years, but time and again, we haven’t delivered on them. When you’ve had feedback or requests, we haven’t always been responsive. The mods and the community have lost trust in me and in us, the administrators of reddit.
Pao's apology — which also outlined three "concrete" steps the site plans to take  to improve the relationship between its admins and its community — got at a key component of said relationship: communication, or the lack thereof. While Pao didn't outright explain the "surprises" she was referring to, her apology implied that there had been changes to the site that didn't go over well, and that she was aware of how those changes had affected users' trust in the site.
The relationship between Reddit administrators and redditors is one that has to be built on trust. Because moderators aren't paid for their work, they deserve to at least be informed of what's happening behind the scenes of the site they're devoting their time to. It's the moderators, not the administrators, who are building and maintaining the Reddit "product." And if there are plans to, say, monetize an AMA or tweak the way Reddit works, Pao and her team owed it to their volunteer moderators to make that clear and give moderators a chance to provide feedback.
The site has regularly been criticized for some users' sexism and misogyny, and as such, there's a tendency for valid criticism of Pao to crumble into a litany of personal attacks against her. As the Daily Dot points out, there was no shortage of redditors who started calling Pao a bitch.
Pao's relationship with redditors was a tenuous one. She was named interim CEO of the site in November 2014, and prior to the firing of Taylor, the biggest move of her tenure happened in May, when Reddit announced the banning of five subreddits — including a rather nasty one called Fat People Hate. Pao said the reason for the bans was that the subreddits in question had become vessels for harassment, but redditors questioned the decision, insinuating a trampling of their free speech rights.

Censorship is certainly a valid subject for debate. But rather than spur civilized discourse on the issue, the question of censorship surrounding the May subreddit bans led to users wanting to "punch Ellen Pao in the face." It also inspired the creation of subreddits with names like "EllenPaoIsaBigCunt," and even a plan to Google bomb Pao so that a search for her name would turn up Nazi symbols.
That sort of hate-filled response detracts from the discussion of very reasonable concerns — but it's also the sort of response that tends to garner the most attention. And that's kind of become Reddit's calling card. Even though the site hosts many amazing subreddits and its community contains many redditors who simply want to know their feedback will be heard and considered, their voices are often drowned out by the site's most hostile cohorts.
On Friday, July 10, Pao resigned from her position as Reddit's interim CEO.
"[Reddit's board] had a more aggressive view than I did," she told Re/Code, explaining that her stepping down was a mutual decision and that she was not fired. Steve Huffman, a Reddit co-founder and its original CEO, will take her place.
Before she left her post, Pao had announced important changes to Reddit's admin team and laid out a plan for fixing some of the site's problems by way of building new tools for moderators and communicating with them more openly:
Tools: We will improve tools, not just promise improvements, building on work already underway. u/deimorz and u/weffey will be working as a team with the moderators on what tools to build and then delivering them.
Communication: u/krispykrackers is trying out the new role of Moderator Advocate. She will be the contact for moderators with reddit and will help figure out the best way to talk more often. We’re also going to figure out the best way for more administrators, including myself, to talk more often with the whole community.
Search: We are providing an option for moderators to default to the old version of search to support your existing moderation workflows. Instructions for setting this default are here.
But a lot of what Pao wrote felt and sounded like oblique office jargon. She didn't promise anything truly specific. And it's unclear if she would've written this memo in the first place if moderators hadn't started shutting down subreddits.
Even Pao seemed aware of this. She wrote: "I know these are just words, and it may be hard for you to believe us. I don't have all the answers, and it will take time for us to deliver concrete results."
In a Reddit post about Pao's resignation, Reddit board member Sam Altman provided further details on the situation, praised Pao's work, echoed Pao's calls for more transparency and better tools, and perhaps most importantly, expressed his dismay at some Redditors' behavior in the wake of Taylor's firing:
It was sickening to see some of the things redditors wrote about Ellen. [1] The reduction in compassion that happens when we’re all behind computer screens is not good for the world. People are still people even if there is Internet between you.
If the reddit community cannot learn to balance authenticity and compassion, it may be a great website but it will never be a truly great community. Steve’s great challenge as CEO [2] will be continuing the work Ellen started to drive this forward.
[1] Disagreements are fine. Death threats are not, are not covered under free speech, and will continue to get offending users banned.
Ellen asked me to point out that the sweeping majority of redditors didn’t do this, and many were incredibly supportive. Although the incredible power of the Internet is the amplification of voices, unfortunately sometimes those voices are hateful.
Pao also wrote a post about her resignation, in which she too addressed the hate she received on Reddit:
I just want to remind everyone that I am just another human; I have a family, and I have feelings. Everyone attacked on reddit is just another person like you and me. When people make something up to attack me or someone else, it spreads, and we eventually will see it. And we will feel bad, not just about what was said. Also because it undercuts the authenticity of reddit and shakes our faith in humanity.
On Thursday, July 16, Reddit's new CEO Steve Huffman made an announcement that the subreddit known as "raping women" (yes, unfortunately this is a real thing) would be banned because it promoted rape. Huffman also outlined a series of guidelines that he promised would be incorporated into the site's content policy. Huffman said the site would ban the following:
- Spam- Anything illegal (i.e. things that are actually illegal, such as copyrighted material. Discussing illegal activities, such as drug use, is not illegal)- Publication of someone’s private and confidential information- Anything that incites harm or violence against an individual or group of people (it’s ok to say "I don’t like this group of people." It’s not ok to say, "I’m going to kill this group of people.")- Anything that harasses, bullies, or abuses an individual or group of people (these behaviors intimidate others into silence)- Sexually suggestive content featuring minors
These changes are a work in progress, and are not yet a formal update to the site's policy.
The strange part is that even if many redditors are outraged by all of the shenanigans happening at the site, they're somewhat stuck. Voat, a Reddit competitor, saw an influx of users that crippled the site's servers and sent it into a tailspin. Sites like 9Gag and 4Chan don't really have the mainstream appeal or accessibility that Reddit does.
Until a competitor emerges that can handle Reddit's traffic and provide a similar level of accessibility, those who currently frequent Reddit don't have anywhere else to go. Consequently Reddit, even without Pao as its leader, doesn't face any real pressure — aside from moderator-instituted blackouts — to deliver on its and its management's promises, whatever those may be.
Amy Schumer is the most popular female comedian of the moment. Her Comedy Central sketch series, Inside Amy Schumer, is a critical darling that just won a Peabody Award. She's been hailed as a groundbreaking feminist, a smart voice on women's issues, and someone who oozes subtle brilliance. Time magazine named her one of its 100 most influential people of 2015, she's got a movie coming out later this month, and the buzz surrounding her comedy has reached the point where you feel like an outsider if you miss one of her sketches.
What Amy Schumer says matters.
But Schumer has recently been in the spotlight for a different — and less flattering — reason. Instead of cracking jokes and showcasing that subtle brilliance everyone keeps going on about, Schumer has found herself defending her comedy against an allegation that she might not be as smart or as funny on the topic of race as she is on some of the other topics she tends to cover, like feminism and beauty standards. And Schumer's justification of her material has inspired many people to listen to her past work a little more closely, and to think about what comedy is and what it's supposed to be — two big, important questions that go beyond Schumer's stardom.
A lot of the current chatter about Schumer, her comedy, and how she addresses the issue of race has to do with a lengthy statement she posted to Twitter on June 28:
Put down your torches before reading this so you don't catch on fire. pic.twitter.com/JyRQGvFuX8

"Stick with me and trust that I am joking," Schumer wrote in defense of her work, adding, "Trust me. I am not a racist. I am a devout feminist and lover of all people."
It appears she was responding to a column by Monica Heisey in the Guardian. The piece was largely positive and tried to capture what a momentous year Schumer is having, but concluded with the assertion that Schumer's comedy, while smart, fails when it comes to the issue of race.
"Schumer has a shockingly large blind spot around race," Heisey wrote. She also declared that "Schumer’s stand-up repeatedly delves into racial territory tactlessly and with no apparent larger point."
The comedian's Twitter post — in which she directly referred to Heisey's allegation that she has a blind spot around race — went up shortly after Heisey's column was published.
Heisey refers to one joke in particular that Schumer performed at the MTV Movie Awards in April. Schumer was delivering a monologue and started speaking about Gone Girl.
"It's the story of one crazy white woman who did what all Latinas do when you cheat on them," she said (the joke comes toward the end of the following video):

Heisey also cites two jokes from Schumer's other work:
Her stand-up special features jokes like "Nothing works 100% of the time, except Mexicans" and much of her character’s dumb slut persona is predicated on the fact that the men she sleeps with are people of colour. "I used to date Latino guys," she says in an older stand-up routine. "Now I prefer consensual."
During Schumer's 2012 standup special Mostly Sex Stuff, she made a few jokes about "all my black friend":

She also discussed race during the Comedy Central Roast of Charlie Sheen in 2011:

If you read some of Schumer's critics, the answer is yes.
But it's important to remember that a lot of Schumer's early comedy was rooted in the conceit of Schumer lampooning the idea of a privileged and ignorant white girl. The context of these jokes is key, as is the way they're delivered. And there is a major difference between laughing at the idiocy of that privileged and ignorant girl and Schumer making a dig at Latinas by way of Gone Girl.
"I go in and out of playing an irreverent idiot," Schumer wrote in her Twitter post. "I enjoy playing the girl who time to time says the dumbest thing possible and playing with race is a thing we are not supposed to do."
There's a difference between Schumer's older standup jokes about her one black friend and what she said during her more recent appearance at the MTV Movie Awards. The black friend jokes involve a bit more thought, and they're presented with more pronounced delivery that indicates Schumer is intentionally playing a fool and making fun of herself. In contrast, the Gone Girl joke is lazier and lacks the same kind of setup. Whether you find either one funny depends on your personal taste.
In her critique, Heisey actually misinterprets a joke from an Inside Amy Schumer sketch called "Urban Fitters," saying that "it's sketch in which the titular problem appears to be that all the store’s black employees look the same."

The sketch actually rests on the idea of Schumer not wanting to describe the salesperson who helped her as black. While in character as that ignorant, privileged white girl, she jumps through all kinds of awkward hoops to avoid mentioning his race.
As Jessica Goldstein explains at ThinkProgress: "That, at the end, every guy who works in the place is (1) black and (2) dressed in nearly-identical hipster-wear — plaid button-downs, thick-rimmed glasses — is a classic Schumer kicker: an escalation of the joke to the extreme."
In addition to explaining her jokes and the mindset she's coming from, Schumer included an interesting fact about her material in her June 28 Twitter post. She stated that race isn't something she's touched upon in her standup sets for the past two years:
I don't have any jokes that deal with race in my standup. I haven't for almost 2 years. https://t.co/u9uNsfElws

At the time, Schumer didn't explain why she hasn't discussed race in her recent standup material (and it appears she thinks of her standup as separate from her MTV Movie Awards monologue). However, the distinction does raise a few questions — particularly because, in that same two-year window, she's made a name for herself by writing and performing thoughtful, searing comedy with a political and social message.
On July 6, Schumer once again addressed the issue via a new Twitter post, explaining why she made a conscious decision to stop telling jokes about race. She stated that she is evolving as an artist and that the jokes were too easily taken out of context:

.@martinejoelle @FeministaJones pic.twitter.com/JFeGohu7dr
On July 6, the Washington Post's Post Everything blog published a fiery op-ed about Schumer's comedy. Titled "Don’t believe her defenders. Amy Schumer’s jokes are racist," it connected Schumer's work to recent national news events like the Charleston murders and South Carolina's vote to take down the Confederate flag:
"While black families are burying their dead, churches are burning, black women church pastors are receiving death threats and the KKK is planning rallies in South Carolina, Schumer is 'playing' with race," authors Stacey Patton and David J. Leonard wrote, arguing that Schumer's jokes are a foundation of racism, and lead to to harmful results like the shooting in Charleston. (The authors failed to note that Schumer has stated she no longer discusses race in her standup.)
"[N]obody wants to take responsibility for spewing rhetoric that breeds the fear that results in soaring gun purchases, that 'inspires' monsters like Dylann Roof to craft a manifesto with deadly consequences," they added.
Connecting Schumer's comedy to Dylann Roof is a drastic, dramatic leap. The Guardian's Heisey merely asserted that Schumer has a blind spot around race, but Patton and Leonard's reading of Schumer's comedy is one that assigns more blame and more harmfulness. Patton and Leonard's piece was widely shared, praised, and maligned, and reignited the discussion of whether Schumer's work is racist.
On July 10, Patton told the Interrobang, a site focused on exploring the impact of comedy, that she co-wrote the op-ed even though she is not familiar with Schumer's work:
The Interrobang: Have you ever watched Amy’s television show… in preparation for the article?Stacey Patton: Nope. Not at all. The Interrobang: Her stand-up set[s]? have you ever watched any of them?Stacey Patton: Nope. None of them.
Patton explained that she formed her judgments based on photos of Schumer and what she saw on Twitter:
Based on the images that I've seen, photos of her- again, I have not watched any of her videos but if I look and I see a predominantly white audience that tells me something right there.  And based on what I'm seeing on social media- and I have a huge social media audience myself, most of the black people that are commenting- actually all of them that I'm seeing- have been reacting very negatively to her.
Schumer, her defenders, and her critics seem to be caught up in the idea that whether Schumer is racist — and whether her jokes about race are funny — is a yes-no, end-all-be-all question. Schumer, who stated in her June 28 Twitter post that "I am not going to start joking about safe material" and pleaded "don't ask that of me," clearly believes she should be able to joke about whatever she wants to joke about and not be criticized for doing so.
The trouble lies in her implication that jokes should be untouchable because they are jokes: "It is a joke and it is funny," Schumer wrote. "I know that because people laugh at it. Even if you personally did not."
Meanwhile, some of her critics seem to think sensitive topics should be completely off-limits for comedians, and that the mere fact that Schumer is joking about such topics automatically marks her comedy as bad.
"There’s nothing funny about a 30-something woman preying on 15-year-old boys, especially in a culture that ignores and marginalizes male survivors," Anne Theriault wrote for the Daily Dot, in reference to a Schumer joke about sleeping with a "crush" who is literally in high school. "A rape joke is a rape joke, even if it’s a cute blond girl making it," Theriault added.
I'm not confident that Theriault and Schumer's "off-limits" arguments are valid. Not everyone is going to think every joke is funny, and conversely, not everyone is going to find every "offensive" joke offensive. It helps neither comedians nor critics to be so resolute.
One major issue with this controversy is that it assumes Schumer isn't capable of changing or evolving as an artist. The situation is not unlike what happened in March when Trevor Noah, who will replace Jon Stewart as host of The Daily Show this fall, was criticized for making crass "jokes" about women and LGBT people, some of which he made before he started gaining attention for his astute views on American identity and racial politics.
Noah ultimately released a statement asking people to trust that he and his comedy have evolved over time:
To reduce my views to a handful of jokes that didn’t land is not a true reflection of my character, nor my evolution as a comedian.

Noah and Schumer aren't the only comedians who've had their past material called into question. For example, Jerry Seinfeld, Daniel Tosh, and Tracy Morgan have all had similar experiences, and they've all pleaded that they are more complex than the jokes they're telling. Now, the same thing is happening with Schumer.
Comedy that touches on sensitive topics is always going to be a difficult balancing act, and there will always be jokes that cross the line. But that doesn't mean it shouldn't exist.
I would never want to see Schumer restrict herself to "safe" topics simply because people condemned her for joking about controversial ones. But I'm not sure that's what critics like Heisey are asking for. It seems that Heisey in particular wishes Schumer could address the topic of race as astutely and incisively as she does the topics of feminism and the way society treats women.
In her July 6 Twitter post, Schumer acknowledged that some of her jokes have been troublesome and that she understands the criticism she's received.
"I am evolving as any artist," she wrote. "I am taking responsibility and hope that I haven't hurt anyone."
On Friday at San Diego Comic-Con, The Walking Dead released the official trailer for its sixth season, and the four-minute clip is packed with hints about what's to come. The citizens of Alexandria are rebelling against Rick, whose approval rating appears to be way down in the aftermath of the season five finale. Morgan and Deanna are possibly teaming up. Fan favorite Daryl appears to be in peril thanks to a run-in with the much-foreshadowed Wolves. And, of course, there are zombies everywhere! Stay safe out there, folks.
The Walking Dead returns Sunday, October 11, at 9 pm on AMC with a 90-minute season six premiere.
There is life beyond San Diego Comic-Con this week.
On Thursday, film director Paul Feig released the first photo of his all-female Ghostbusters crew — Leslie Jones, Kate McKinnon, Melissa McCarthy, and Kristen Wiig — into the universe. And they look, well, kinda skeptical? Bemused? Unenthused?
It might be a while before we find out. The film is set for release on July 22, 2016.
When I refer to Comic Con in this post, I'm referring to New York Comic Con and San Diego Comic-Con, the two biggest comic book conventions in America.
San Diego Comic-Con is upon us, and my thoughts are with those brave, tenacious souls who've traveled to Southern California to attend — the next three days will be hell for them.
Each year, New York Comic Con and San Diego Comic-Con welcome more than 100,000 comic and pop culture fans through their gates. By the time they arrive (possibly in elaborate costumes), these folks have already been through a lot: They've navigated faulty electronic ticketing systems, they may have overpaid scalpers after convention passes sold out within minutes, they've entered lotteries to book hotel rooms, they've taken vacation time at work, and they've spent hours strategizing over which panels to check out and how to actually get into them.
But they still haven't gotten to the worst part — the endless waiting and the oppressive number of tired, irritable people doing the same exact thing.
San Diego and New York's comic conventions are mutant amalgams that combine the misery of standing in line to get off an airplane with the sensory overload of an amusement park. They are often logistical nightmares, so much so that I've personally witnessed multiple people experience meltdowns as a result. And yet more and more people go to them each year.
Comic book and pop culture fans are good people. They're all searching for that one moment when their fidelity to the characters and franchises they love will finally be rewarded, and they will go through hell to find it. And they deserve better than what these conventions are giving.
A note on the graph: San Diego Comic-Con reports its attendance as "130,000+" while New York Comic Con rounds to the thousands. We plugged in 130,000 as San Diego Comic-Con's numbers. New York Comic Con considers itself the "second-largest comic book and pop culture event in the country."
The main issue with SDCC and NYCC is that they are enormous. In 2014, New York Comic Con attracted more than 151,000 attendees over its four-day span. San Diego Comic-Con attracted around 133,000 attendees. Both conventions are so huge that a strange, tedious contest has sprung up between the two in the way tickets are tracked and sold, so that one can have bragging rights as the bigger convention.
Larger conventions attract more attention from influential companies like Marvel and DC, as well as movie studios such as Lionsgate, Fox, and Sony. Marketers who work for these companies want to get their movies and TV shows in front of as many eyeballs as possible to build hype. Being a giant convention makes it much easier to land that exclusive Hunger Games trailer and cast visit, which in turn will help ensure that more people want attend your event next year. Once the beast has been fed, the cycle is complete.
The main problem with a convention that keeps growing is that almost none of the obvious benefits actually make the experience better for attendees. Even though ticket prices have increased, and the companies running these conventions are making more money than ever, they haven't implemented any significant improvements for fans.
The facilities are largely the same as they were in the beginning, even as attendance has increased, so the lines have only gotten longer (SDCC, for example, is committed to the city and its convention center through 2018). The food at NYCC, save for food trucks, is bad enough to make you consider a hunger strike. The state of the bathrooms at the end of the weekend will make you lose faith in society. And the crush of humanity on the exhibition floors is exhausting.
At the beginning of each convention, attendees are spry, happy to be there. But if you were to follow one person for the entire weekend, you'd likely see her spirit begin to crumble as she dealt with the onslaught.

For the past few years, SDCC and NYCC passes have sold out in minutes, but many of them aren't going straight to fans. Big blocks of tickets ultimately wind up in the hands of scalpers and resellers who target big events and the people who are willing to pay a premium to get in.
At New York Comic Con, there's an extensive application to get a press pass. It requires you to provide circulation numbers, past articles you've written, and articles about NYCC and comic books you've written in the past. Considering the hundreds of thousands of fans who tried to get tickets and how many were denied, a press pass is probably the only way I could get into the convention.
"The fact is that tickets for New York Comic Con are more popular than ever and we regret that because of that demand some of our most loyal fans are not getting tickets," Lance Fensterman, the spokesperson for Reed Exhibitions (the company that runs NYCC), told the site Bleeding Cool in 2014, explaining that his team was trying to think of ways to better serve the fans.
"We too are frustrated by the reselling of tickets at the inflated price [of the tickets sold by resellers]. EBay has informed us there is nothing they can do about it," he added.
In 2015, the rising demand of tickets along with resellers and scalpers once again hit NYCC, leaving lots of fans out in the dust.
"What can you do about those reselling tickets at inflated prices? DON’T BUY THEM!" Fensterman wrote to fans. "The demand for tickets at noon was roughly quadruple what we experienced in 2014. Those who were attempting to buy tickets in the queue know that it took several hours to move through the queue and received error messages along the way."
SDCC has a more complicated ticketing system that helps to weed out scalpers. But it has faced similar complaints about system failure for the past few years. The bottom line: A lot of loyal fans are being shut out, and there's an abundance of futility in trying to accommodate them. Expecting a miracle is unrealistic, but it seems the system has gotten worse, not better.
One of the biggest letdowns for the fans who do manage to get into the big conventions is not being able to secure entry to the panels they want to see, and being forced to choose.
Back in 2013, I attended NYCC (where members of the press wait in line like everyone else) and patiently got in line at 9:30 am in hopes of seeing the panel for The Walking Dead in the afternoon. The Walking Dead was scheduled for 5 pm — this was the first time I'd ever attempted to attend a "big" panel — and I waited almost two hours to get into the room it was being held in. Then I sat through a day's worth of other panels to keep my spot. I left shortly after it concluded, and there was still a massive line, way bigger than the one I'd waited in, to get in.
Since 2013, the lines have only gotten longer.
I'm not sure how long some of those people stood in line, but I wonder how much of their time at NYCC was spent waiting. I also wonder how many other panels they didn't get to see as a result.
Because NYCC and SDCC are so crowded, attendees are forced to choose between events for their favorite TV shows, comic books, and movies. No matter what, you're going to miss out on something — if schedules didn't overlap, the conventions would be two weeks long — but it's a shame that people have to spend hours and hours waiting in line for the most popular panels when they could be enjoying smaller ones. The comic book panels are usually great, but if you want to see them, there's no way you'll be able to also see some of buzzier TV and movie panels. I'm not sure there's a way to alleviate this. Going to smaller conventions for comic book panels and saving SDCC and NYCC for big movie stuff might be the most feasible option.
At the end of most comic conventions there's an event called a Talk Back, where people voice their concerns to the convention's higher-ups. At SDCC, attendees speak to John Rogers, the president of the convention. Many typical complaints revolve around the overcrowding situation, but they also address concerns like the lack of attention and service given to disabled attendees, or a lax sexual harassment policy. The complaints are usually answered with a promise to be better next year.
But the fans who attend the Talk Back are there for something more.
As my colleague Todd VanDerWerff wrote after attending SDCC's Talk Back in 2014:
There's just no way to go back to the way things were, not exactly. The Talk Back is wonderful and raucous and, oddly, intentionally funny. But it also suggests the frustration that arises when something you love, something you've devoted a part of your life to, is simply becoming something else. Comic-Con is an institution now. It can do pretty much whatever it likes. Yet for many who attend it, it's a kind of Brigadoon, a magical, lost city they can see disappearing into the mists all around them.
Fans' complaints, and this criticism, come from a place of fear — the fear that something so great is going to disappear. Attending comic conventions has introduced me to new comic books, creators, artists, and people I wouldn't have found otherwise. The experience has made me appreciate comic books and approach them in ways I hadn't previously thought of. And so it makes me anxious that the possibility of having that experience might one day disappear because the people who run NYCC and SDCC aren't on the same page as the fans who attend their events.
If their ultimate vision is anything like what we've seen in the past five or so years, it's one with eyes on becoming the biggest comic conventions on the planet — something that doesn't have true fans' best interests in mind.
It's that time of year again. The sensory overload known as San Diego Comic-Con has begun. Studios will promote upcoming releases, movie and TV stars will display their best "we're so happy to be here" smiles, and there will almost certainly be some secret trailer that everyone will be talking about.

But the most important element of any comic convention is the fans, many of whom partake in cosplay.  Here's a brief guide to why people dress up like esoteric video game characters and what it is about comic conventions that inspires them to don costumes:
Cosplay is short for costume play. In plain English, cosplay refers to someone dressing up as a superhero or a character from a video game, comic book, or movie. Cosplay's popularity surged in the '90s, when Japanese anime and manga gained popularity in the US. Cosplay is so popular now that there's even a television show about it.
You know, what? This story might be more easily told in pictures. Here are a couple of cosplayers dressed up as characters you might recognize:

A couple dressed up as Daenerys Targaryen and Khal Drogo from Game of Thrones. (Photo by Anadolu Agency via Getty Images)

And here's a shot of a cosplayer dressed up as a superhero:

(Photo by Piti A Sahakorn via Getty images)
Finally, here are a couple of cosplayers getting really into their characters:

A couple of cosplayers from Syfy's Heroes of Cosplay.
The two could be considered similar, since both activities feature fans dressing up in costume. But LARPing involves role playing and elaborate "battles":
That isn't a requirement in cosplay.
Anyone can cosplay anywhere. But you'll usually find cosplayers at comic conventions, especially the country's bigger draws like San Diego Comic-Con and New York Comic Con. At conventions, cosplayers can show off their costumes in front of fans who will actually recognize the characters (even the obscure ones) they're portraying, as opposed to drawing the blank stares they might receive at their neighborhood rec center or TGI Friday's.
For fun. Like any sport, hobby, or other form of entertainment, the main reason people cosplay is that they enjoy it. In the US, Americans spend tons of money on an entire holiday dedicated to putting on a costume, and there are factions of people regularly reenact the Civil War or pretend to live in 18th-century America, complete with Colonial garb. So seeing someone get a thrill out of dressing up as Lulu from "Final Fantasy" shouldn't be that difficult to understand.
(Getty Images)
"Be it love of a character, enjoying the attention of being in an elaborate costume or portraying a loved character, or the appreciation from peers from completing a complex costume ... there are many motivations for donning spandex or cape," Molly McIsaac, a cosplayer, wrote for IFanboy, a site devoted to comic book culture.
Some cosplayers make statements with their cosplay. "Crossplay" is a term used to describe a cosplayer who dresses up as a character of a different gender. "Many female cosplayers find the act of dressing and embodying a male character empowering," Theresa Winge, a professor at Michigan State, told CNN. "Male characters often include opportunities to wear clothing not afforded to many female characters, not to mention the weapons."
In the cosplay world, there are varying degrees of devotion, too. Some people will just put on a mask they purchase from a store, while others make their costumes by hand and really get into character. A large number of cosplayers see cosplay as a type of performance art, and some design custom costumes that take days or weeks to build. The latter usually compete in cosplay competitions.
At comic conventions, there's usually a costume competition and party of some sort. Cosplayers who enter the competition model their costumes in front of an audience and a panel of judges, in hopes of winning prizes (sometimes cash) for their costume/cosplay. At San Diego Comic-Con, the annual cosplay contest is called the Masquerade and recognizes cosplayers in categories like Best in Show, Best Original Design, Best Workmanship, and Best Young Fan.
Some people have made a career out of cosplaying. For example, cosplayers who are looking for jobs in costume design may start by showing off their skill at cosplay events. Yaya Han, a costume designer and cosplay legend, parlayed her success on the cosplay circuit into regular public appearances and is now starring in her own comic. Han and a handful of other talented cosplayers were also featured on Syfy's Heroes of Cosplay  reality show.
Yup. What you have to keep in mind about cosplay is that the source material mainly comes from comic books and movies. And the representation of women in that source material hasn't always been realistic or body-positive. Despite hard work from authors and creators like Kelly Sue DeConnick who are pushing for changes in the depiction of women characters, in comics those women characters tend to be scantily clad. They command unrealistic body proportions, and they are often depicted in overtly sexual poses.
Women who want to cosplay as women characters can find that aspect daunting. And while the depiction of male superheroes can be as unrealistic as that of female superheroes, it's reflected and received in cosplay much differently.

Women cosplayers are sometimes bullied for their weight. And there are even some mean-spirited cosplay websites that fat-shame and post pictures of heavier cosplayers under categories like "fatties" or "too fat to cosplay."
There's also a growing problem of harassment at comic conventions. The Mary Sue, a site that focuses on women in geek or nerd culture and science, has documented cases of alleged harassment at comic conventions and pushed for more protection for cosplayers. And there are cosplayers who say they are bullied because of the color of their skin or their sexuality.
While there is some good news — the "Cosplayers against bullying" movement is gaining in popularity, and conventions like Emerald City Comicon employ a zero-tolerance harassment policy — some of the bullying/harassment that happens in the world of cosplay is just really ugly, a major downer when you consider that a lot of people are cosplaying to have fun.
Attending a comic convention might be a good place to start. Also, it's guaranteed that there will be some amazing costumes on display at San Diego Comic-Con this week. If you live anywhere nearby, head downtown to see who might wander past.
You've probably heard of Minions, or maybe you've just seen their bright yellow likeness on a T-shirt, meme, or bumper sticker. Perhaps you've already decided whether you love them, hate them, or simply find them baffling, as they've been known to inspire quite a range of emotions in all who encounter them. But no matter what you think about the curious pill-shaped creatures, their fame is about to rise thanks to their starring role in the new movie Minions, now in theaters.
Minions is a spinoff and prequel to Despicable Me and Despicable Me 2, but instead of focusing on Steve Carell's Gru, it puts the spotlight on the Minions alone. Set in the late 1960s, the movie follows three Minions as they search for a new evil boss to rule their species. The quest takes them to a villain convention in Florida and, soon after, all around the world.
Of course, as with all great things in history, the existence of Minions prompts big questions: Where did these strange beings come from? Why do they inspire such polarizing reactions? And is there any deeper meaning to these unusual yellow creatures?
So many Minions, so little time.
Universal
Minions are a species of tiny yellow henchmen; they look like unusually dressed Mike and Ike candies. They're earnestly driven by the desire to serve an evil boss, though they often screw up because they're selfish, easily distracted, and generally inept. They vary in height, but it's safe to say they're between 2 and 3 feet tall (though closer to 2). They communicate using a gibberish language that's understandable to them and a few people who have longstanding relationships with them.
They're also resilient. Minions have been turned into evil purple versions of themselves, transformed into giants, crushed, tortured, and buried without being worse for wear (this may be the reason they've survived so long).
Two Minions, one desire.
Via Giphy
They even have a few special abilities, like becoming glow sticks when they're snapped and shaken.
Though it's often tough for the layperson to distinguish one Minion from another, they all have unique personalities and names (which their masters quickly learn). The new movie centers on three Minions — Kevin, Stuart, and Bob — who each become more distinct throughout the course of the film (or at least as distinct as gibberish-speaking henchmen can be). Kevin's the leader, Stuart's the musician, and Bob's the kid (he totes around a teddy bear that somehow makes him appear even more adorable — and, in an equally lovable detail, he's heterochromic).
There are a few things we don't know about Minions that the new movie doesn't clarify: We don't know why they wear goggles, though they've done so for thousands of years (early goggles were fashioned from available flora). Relatedly, the evolutionary function of some Minions having one eye while others have two eyes remains unclear. We also don't know what compels them to serve evil people, though Minions implies it's an evolutionary imperative, similar to the parasitism seen in the natural world (but only the cute kind, suitable for a McDonald's toy).
Minions emerge from the sea, ready to bring joy to the world.
IMDB
The origin story of the Minions is dependent on two questions: 1) Where did the creatures themselves come from, and 2) where did the commercial phenomenon come from?
First, let's tackle the little guys themselves. Minions sheds some light on their beginnings in an opening credits sequence that depicts them evolving in the ocean, similar to many other organisms, before emerging fully formed as they appear today (this is a departure from Darwin). Though the supervillain Gru has a gun that can transform humans into Minions, it's only been seen in an amusement park ride, so most Minions presumably came from the sea. (If you're looking for more information about Minion reproduction, there's probably fan-fiction somewhere that can help you out, but you'll have to Google it on your own.)
Minions have existed for at least 60 million years
Geologically speaking, Minions depicts its subjects serving an evil dinosaur that appears to be a Tyrannosaurus rex, suggesting they've been around at least since the Late Cretaceous Period. That means they've existed for at least 60 million years, making them one of the oldest surviving complex organisms on the planet. Throughout history, they've served different masters including ancient Egyptians and vampires.
As movie characters, Minions are a little fresher than the Late Cretaceous: They made their big-screen debut in 2010's Despicable Me, the first computer-animated film in the burgeoning franchise. While it's clear the Minions were supposed to play second fiddle to Gru, it's safe to say they stole the show. Thus, when 2013's Despicable Me 2 — whose marketing material featured Minions even more prominently — became a hit, a Minions-centric spinoff film was an obvious next step. Though Minions features Sandra Bullock and Jon Hamm voicing human villains, the Minions are the stars.
Pierre Coffin (left) and Chris Renaud stand next to a Minion.
Mark Davis/Getty Images
The lovable weirdos' unique chatter has always been part of their appeal. Minions "speak" in cute, high-pitched (possibly artificially), and emotive tones; they're voiced by Despicable Me and Minions co-directors Pierre Coffin and Chris Renaud. Coffin and Renaud also steered the Minions' character design, and they may have been inspired by the Jawas in Star Wars or the Oompa Loompas in Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory.
We don't know for certain how the Minions' voices are produced, but it's reasonable to assume they are the result of some form of pitch modulation. Some YouTubers who've made a habit of speculating on the Minions' voices have even experimented with their own hacks to achieve a similar effect.

Coffin has said the Minions speak a gibberish language that he spontaneously invents (albeit one that is infused with the occasional real word or phrase borrowed from a real language). In 2013, the Grammar Girl investigated some rumors about Minions linguistics and confirmed this claim.
The Minions' native language is part of their unique appeal. Because the Minions already feel so ubiquitous, it's hard to remember just how audacious it is that one of the largest kids' movies of this summer is, for all intents and purposes, a foreign language film.
The production company behind Minions, Illumination Entertainment, has successfully tackled a brand new challenge. While its competitor Pixar makes movies about toys that speak English, fish that speak English, cars that speak English, monsters that speak English, dogs that speak English, French rats that speak English, volcanoes that speak (or, rather, sing in) English, and feelings that speak English, Illumination has produced a non-subtitled film about a species that does NOT speak English, relying on animation to make it all work.
Minions are always ready to serve an evil boss.
IMDB
So what drives the Minions? Are they evil?
Minions reveals that the Minions become listless after too much time without a master to serve (since the movie occurs before they meet Gru, it's the catalyst that sends them searching for a new villain). Despite constructing a magical underground ice lair — complete with sports and musical productions — they sank into ennui without a boss to tell them what to do. Over time, their daily routine broke down without an outside force to control their chaos. Seeing Minions bored turns out to be just as funny as seeing them hyper — it's like seeing the aftermath of a particularly long sugar rush.
It's not so much evil that motivates the Minions as it is obedience: Ultimately, they just want to help someone who is evil and, if necessary, they're happy to be a party to that evil. They're so dedicated to the cause that at the outset of Minions, they even attend a villain convention (Villain-Con) in search of a new boss.
But the sense of purpose they develop is external to them — only someone like Gru or Scarlet Overkill (Bullock), the new leader they meet at Villain-Con, can help shape their days and assign meaning to their lives.
Minions for sale.
Alberto E. Rodriguez/Getty Images for City Year Los Angeles
Figuring out why the Minions took hold is as difficult a task as determining the cause of any cultural phenomenon; if we knew how to do it, Hollywood would have a lot more hits on its hands. Still, we can make a few guesses.
Aside from their infectious humor, Minions are uniquely suited to an internet age. They're meme-able, GIF-able, and lovable in bite-size portions. It doesn't take a 90-minute movie to understand their appeal of the Minions. Four-second clips can be enough to help them shine.
One of the countless Minions GIFs that populate the internet.
That portability extends to their merchandising opportunities. It's easy to put a Minion on a T-shirt or commemorative cup. It's even easier to sell a plush toy. That's made Minions ubiquitous — which some people don't like.
Minions are like cilantro — some people think it's a great flavor, and others think it tastes like soap.
Widespread dislike of Minions is well-documented, everywhere from Facebook pages to BuzzFeed. Brian Feldman, writing at the Awl, makes a compelling argument for hating the Minions because their pop cultural ubiquity makes them meaningless. It's kind of like how every time a Rolling Stones song is used to promote an operating system, it becomes harder to love "Start Me Up"; every time a Minion appears next to a treacly homemade meme about friendship, it gets a little harder to love them:
Minions quotes are big business.
MinionQuote
This feeling may be compounded by the fact that there are few critical defenses of the Minions — it's simply not cool to like them. For example, critics are happy to wax rhapsodic about less-famous stop-motion Aardman movies, which never sully their artistry by actually being funny (yes, Aardman fans, it's true — to some people, Aardman tastes like soap), but the same cannot be said for Minions.
What's more, it's difficult to pull out the same bromides for Minions that work for other types of animation — can you compare a Minion to the "madcap poetry of Buster Keaton" or the "zany pop imagery of Chuck Jones" when they're such a unique comic invention (and multimillion-dollar megabrand)?
The Minions also don't have much of an emotional arc or, really, a plot arc in any of their films, including their new starring vehicle. While in Minions the title characters enjoy a bunch of back-and-forth with Scarlet Overkill, set out on a quest to steal the queen's crown, and indulge in a few more globe-hopping adventures, none of it really matters. If you're looking for tight, structured screenwriting, it might bother you that Minions' plot is entirely replaceable.
In short, Minions don't have epiphanies or politics. They just have fun.
Happy Minions are some of the best Minions.
Via Giphy
People love the Minions for a lot of reasons, but there's something deep at the core of their appeal. That's why some moviegoers — including me — would've been happy to discard most of the plot points in Despicable Me if it meant spending more time with the Minions (which Minions largely does).
Minions are pure id and pure joy
At their best, the Minions are a unique depiction of children. In Pixar's films, kids have been portrayed as sturdily realistic, with even the most cartoonish characters getting an emotional arc (Inside Out's Riley is more complex than the characters in most novels, and even Up's more caricatured Russell has a lot of heart). The appeal of Pixar movies is, in part, the recognition that children's emotional lives are as turbulent — and important — as those of adults.
The Minions go in another direction, abandoning the realism of Pixar in favor of a more expressionistic depiction of childhood. The Minions are the best and worst things about kids, painted in the brightest colors: They're pure id, and they're also pure joy. They're prone to distraction, but they're unceasingly devoted. The can be selfish, but also willing to work together toward a common goal. They're hilarious, infuriating, and wonderful all at once, just like kids.
And that may be the reason kids like them, too. Kids recognize, in themselves, the silliness of the Minions, and they can love them and laugh at them simultaneously. Minions also speaks to kids' unspoken wishes; I don't know many children who wouldn't want to have an underground lair packed with other kids, but they'd still yearn for structure to keep things from getting boring.
The Minions are funny because they tap into a feeling that's profoundly true, and even human. They just so happen to do so by imitating ambulance sirens, kissing fire hydrants, and repeatedly hitting each other over the head.
Because bananas are delicious. It's that simple.

Minions is in theaters now.
Each week, a handful of Vox's writers will chat about the latest episode of True Detective's second season. Before you dig into this latest round, check out our recap of this week's episode, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date.
Tanya Pai, copy chief: Disclosure: I came to True Detective's first season late, and despite the extraordinary performances by its two leads, did not find myself a total convert by the end. Still, I was excited to experience season two in real time — though like many people, I'm finding it a bit of a letdown thus far.
There are good moments, to be sure, especially the superbly bizarre Twin Peaks homage series creator Nic Pizzolatto works into "Maybe Tomorrow" as Ray is recuperating from his plot contrivance injuries. But the scene also draws a contrast: Twin Peaks was such a specifically imagined show where, even if you didn't know what the hell was going on most of the time (which is likely), it mostly didn't matter because it was so much fun to watch.
But True Detective's second season, after three episodes, is not fun at all. It's partly that the series could badly use a break from the overly expository dialogue (which it could), which also encourages lazy viewing: You, the viewer, don't need to worry too much about what's important and what's not, because the characters will just tell you, to oddly enervating effect.

For contrast, consider a show like Mad Men, a show on which the silences mattered as much as — if not more than — the words its characters spoke, and which painstakingly developed those characters over the course of the series so that when it ended, we felt as if we'd changed right along with them. Or consider, at the opposite end of the spectrum, Scandal, a series I recapped (and was frustrated by)  for three and a half seasons. Scandal’s bread and butter is its splashy, shocking, GIF-able moments, for which everything else is sacrificed: continuity, character development, meaningful story arcs. Anything you're supposed to pay attention to on Scandal is bold-faced and underlined twice by dramatic monologues and loaded stares; internal logic gets tossed aside in favor of continually forward-grinding plot. This makes for a fun but ultimately cheap-feeling experience, a series of OMGs and WTFs and not too much else.
True Detective's second season has neither Scandal’s legacy of machine gun dialogue and outrageous plot twists (disappointing cliffhanger aside), nor Mad Men's riveting examples of restrained, slow-building character work. The show seems to want to straddle these disparate worlds without fully committing to either, imbuing every exchange with Meaningful Pauses, which are immediately followed by overt exposition in case the audience misses something. Two recent, egregious examples: The set photographer telling Ray he's a "set photographer," then turning away to snap some photos; and Ray exclaiming, "I pissed myself" aloud to an empty apartment, for the weak payoff in the next scene of Ani saying, "Fuck, it smells like piss."
Then there's the fact that the show is, as Todd VanDerWerff put it, "grim for the sake of being grim." There's a heaviness, a sourness, that hangs over every character and every piece of dialogue (perhaps with Ray's crack about body issues being a rare exception). Vince Vaughn, straining at the limits of Frank's poker-faced persona like it's an overly tight dress shirt, seems the most uncomfortable of all, as if he’s deathly afraid that the comedic persona he’s best known for will slip through and ruin his credibility as a Serious Actor. Which is a shame: The show’s ponderousness could use a hint of levity here and there! I mean, a scene in which an immaculately dressed pseudo-gangster beats up a guy while sustaining nary a scratch and then pries his gold FUCK YOU grill out of his mouth is ripe for the kind of darkly manic humor Vaughn excels at. Instead, here it just seems … unhygienic.
All of which is to say that Pizzolatto is still committing the cardinal writing sin of telling, not showing. Perhaps he felt he bit off more than he could chew with season one's Yellow King/Carcosa mythos, and is overcorrecting toward the more traditional noirish cop drama so as to not have to contend with sharp-eyed fans' theories. Or perhaps the back half of season two will lay out the stunning reveal that Marty Hart and Rust Cohle's world of swampy Southern terror is linked to this more prosaic-seeming mystery in Vinci, California. Until that becomes clear, though, I'll be sitting in front of my TV, crossing my fingers for more Twin Peaks–style weirdness and hoping that one of the characters will at least crack a genuine smile.
Read the recap, and come back soon for more discussion.
Previous entry
Aden Young is giving one of the best performances TV has ever seen — but chances are you haven't seen a single minute of it. As Daniel Holden, the convicted murderer (who may not have committed the crime) at the heart of SundanceTV's Rectify, Young offers an intense, soulful portrayal of a tortured man, gentle on the surface but tempered by rage boiling within.
When Daniel's death row conviction is overturned after 19 years due to new DNA evidence, he reenters a world and a family that have moved on without him and must attempt to carve out new space for himself. But it's a difficult, trying process, and Young is always at its center, quietly watching and waiting and discovering.

Rectify is brilliant television; it has ranked high on my annual top 10 list as long as it's been on the air, and the curious can now catch up with all 16 existing episodes on Netflix. (Season three, meanwhile, premieres at 10 pm Eastern on Thursday, July 9.) But the show simply wouldn't work without Young, its magnetic core, at once hard to pin down and deeply open to every new experience he encounters.
I talked to Young at the recent Austin Television Festival about his acting process, how the show's cast works together, and what he thinks happened that fateful night 19 years ago.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
Rectify often isolates Daniel, keeping him separate from other people and turning the open world he finds himself in into its own kind of prison.
Sundance
Todd VanDerWerff: After two full seasons of Rectify, we still have no idea whether Daniel committed the crime that landed him in prison. Is that tough for you to deal with as an actor, especially since Daniel himself doesn't know?
Aden Young: That night has played out so many times in his head. People are beginning to understand now with neurology, there's an elasticity there. Once you recall something, it changes in its recall. There isn't total recall, especially given trauma. Oftentimes, you'll see people who are suffering Alzheimer's return to a traumatic situation, because that [situation] has such a particular strength to it.
I remember a story that a film director friend of mine told me after she returned to Arnhem with her father, who was one of the paratroopers who was securing the bridge [during World War II]. He immediately sunk into defensive positions, and he was there. He was commanding the situation. Even though the south of Arnhem no doubt had changed so much, he was able to recall immediately what he needed to do.
"Something is in Daniel's head, not to elongate the mystery of did he or didn't he, but perhaps because he's afraid of telling himself"
I think it's a sort of similar situation with Daniel. Even though there's an elasticity there, there's also a confusion. Daniel's not telling us something. Something is in Daniel's head, not to elongate the mystery of did he or didn't he, but perhaps because he's afraid of telling himself.
TV: Clearly, you're okay with that on some level. Has there been a time when the ambiguity of the show has frustrated you?
AY: Absolutely. Yet I've made a conscious decision to allow that frustration in, as opposed to allowing the definite in. Did he or didn't he? How many times do you have the opportunity to talk about a situation that disrupts a life to such a degree?
I've felt that there were processes in play that were more interesting as an actor for me to be challenged by than, "Okay, how do I craft this guilty man's journey or this innocent man's journey?" What happens if I play somebody who undoubtedly has been shifted by the hell that is death row? Undoubtedly, he's being educated by that, and the knowledge that his life is forfeit, the knowledge that he must abandon his family in order for them to continue to rebuild the shards of their life.
That's really what the show is about. It's not about Daniel Holden. It's about his family that was destroyed by this night. Then it's rebuilt. Then Daniel has reemerged back into that mosaic that they managed to salvage, and he's smashed it all over again. He's a big, destructive fellow. I call him Bigfoot sometimes.
"[Daniel] is a big destructive fellow. I call him Bigfoot sometimes."
For me, I was intrigued by the idea not of Daniel's sin in the first season, but of what happened to get him into that sin. What horrors did he live through in order to get to that sin? That became a more interesting process for me. With the second season, I decided, well, Daniel is now stepping out like an adolescent. He's crept out the door. Friends come to pick him up. He's going for a drive, and suddenly, he's trying to live life. He's imbibing life and of course, like an adolescent, he has no idea of consequence. He's the drunk driver at the wheel. He's smashing everything. There's a lot of things that he doesn't understand that he's in charge of.

What I did going into this season was make a point not to know anything about the season. As an actor, I said to [series creator] Ray [McKinnon] as he began to tell me the story arc of these episodes, "I don't want to know. I don't want to know what I'm going to do for my next exit. I'm just kind of doing this episode. I'm going to quickly learn these lines. I'm going to pay attention to what's going on." Then on the day, where do we go? That was exciting to me, how to take it to another level every episode. It was incredibly daunting and challenging and frustrating at times not to know, "Am I coming from a place of betrayal with my family in mind? Or am I coming from a place of injustice?" Sometimes, yeah, it can be a conundrum of the highest order.
Rectify also makes great use of natural light, as you can see above.
Sundance
TV: So much of this role is very light on dialogue. How do you make sure that Daniel's physicality remains a constant presence?
AY: It's a really intriguing character to play in that regard. Not many roles come along where you have such a physical reality to your personal space. Nineteen years you live in that box, and when you go out of that box, your life's in jeopardy. You've got sonar of where that person might be behind you, where you've been attacked. You had your liberty stolen from you. You had your dignity shattered inside out. That physical reality of being in that space was really interesting to discover just in playing that role.
It wasn't a conscious thing. In the playing of it, when people would take a step close, if I had fur, it would arc up a little bit. I'm really intrigued by that. I'm really intrigued by that physical dance that he has with different people. Of course, you're not the same as you may be with your wife as you are with your best friend. I'm intrigued by the fact that Daniel has got to do that with so many different types of people like Daggett, like Trey Willis, Amantha, Tom.
"In the playing of it, when people would take a step close, if I had fur, it would arc up a little bit"
There are aspects to his personality that physically have to be communicated because so much of it is dialogue-minimal. Yet Daniel has a wonderful ability to sieve and get right to the heart of the core, and usually with irony and wit. That's wonderful to come back to.
TV: How much of this role comes down to instinct versus preparation?
AY: It's a marriage. Ray McKinnon is a sprite, as far as I'm concerned. I don't think he was born here. I think he arrived on some hillbilly spaceship. He's just got a wonderful microscope for eyes. He seems to understand things at a different level, to be a part of that process of philosophizing, intellectualizing, and then relying on your instinct as an actor and as a human being, and bringing that to the set. It allows you to be open to change.
That's the most important thing with the way we work, because we don't have the ego on set at all with anyone, to think they know what they're doing. I was saying the other day to somebody, "There hasn't been a single scene where I've arrived thinking, 'I know what this thing is about'" and then left going, "You see, I knew what it was about."
"You're driven by the theatrics of what's happening and the subtext of what you have to hide"
Every single scene we have to discover along the way, and Ray is there with us. Even though he's written it, he might come up to you, and you're 45 minutes into the shoot. You've done the wide shot, and you walk from the counter to the fridge and sit down at the table. And he'll go, "Let's get rid of it." And you think, "Shit. Well, then you'll never have a wide." He'll say, "Doesn't matter. Now it's closer. It's about this. I don't want you sitting. I want you standing." Or he might come up and say, "Just take that line out. Just go straight from there to there." Or I'll say to him, "Maybe it needs a line." He's open to all of that.
It's very much a collaboration of the academic, the intellectual, and the philosophical. In order to play a script with so much subtext, you need to find the way in, because you're not playing reality. If you were to play a character who spoke like a human being, we'd be sitting there for 55 minutes and going, "When is somebody going to say something?" You're driven by the theatrics of what's happening and the subtext of what you have to hide. You need to understand what that subtext needs to be.
J. Smith-Cameron and Clayne Crawford are among the other members of Rectify's stellar ensemble.
Sundance
TV: How do you work through that process with your fellow cast members?
AY: As I was saying before, Rectify is very much the story of a man who returns to a mosaic remnant of the family — something that's been rebuilt from the ashes, and he lands right in the dead center of that thin ice. When you arrive on set, there are so many arcs to the characters. There's so much depth to every single character.
There's so much history there because our show has this time capsule that we keep having to look back at with great confusion as to what might be the truth. There's a great deal of weight. When you turn that up, if you're not ready, if you're not prepared to be available to them, then you're not doing any justice to them because they all are available for you.
Daniel's got a [metaphorical] suicide vest on for the majority of [the show, and his family has] to be very careful not to press the button, not to upset him. There's that wonderful scene that Ray wrote in season one where [Daniel's mother] Janet comes and is about to say, "I think it's time for you to hit the road, kid. This isn't working out." But she can see her son's pain. She can see her son's confusion. He's adrift in this world, and she can't abandon him at this point. So she says instead, "I was thinking about redoing the kitchen." Then for Daniel, part of the vest goes off. He doesn't quite understand how to react.
"We're only satisfied when Ray starts dancing and hooting and hollering around the set"
I didn't know how to play that. I didn't know how to get right back to the innocence of that. The night before, my son asked me, "Can I have popcorn?" I said, "Come on, you just brushed your teeth. It's time for bed." He ... [crying sound]. His innocence was so real. He had just lost the World Series. It was a big deal for him. I was suddenly like, "Oh, I can use a part of that."
But part of that didn't need to be there because J. [Smith-Cameron, who plays Janet] was there. She was giving so much. She was bringing that mother. You could read her. You could see her. It's like that with every single one of the actors. They're right on the ball. Some might get angry if they have to be in a situation where their characters are angry, or frustrated, or a little hot-headed. You might have to tiptoe around a little bit. We don't play games. We're a theater group who comes together to explore this thing, and we're only satisfied when Ray starts dancing and hollering and hooting around the set. Then we go to the next scene, and we don't know what we're doing all over again.
Almost every one of those characters is accelerated by an action somebody else takes. That's the beauty of it. As a storyteller, Ray's forced to deal with the character not three days from now but in an hour. We don't have [the luxury of saying], "Oh, we'll get to that in time." It's all accelerated by the pounding Bigfoot that is Daniel making his way back into their world.
TV: You've referred to his destructiveness a few times, even though he outwardly seems quite gentle. How do you keep his deeply buried rage simmering away?
AY: Daniel didn't go to Georgia Tech. He didn't go to Harvard. He went to death row. [He read] Dickens and the greats, and philosophy, and the idea of enlightenment — just to survive paradoxically on death row. That was his education. Marry that to the three and a half minutes it takes to get from his cell to the shower block. Will anyone be there to supervise the situation? Or will they suddenly disappear and he'll be left alone with just the sounds coming from around the corner? He had to toughen up.
"I think the monster he carries is the monster we all carry"
I think we all carry a rage in us. The question is whether we let it out or not. We don't know if Daniel let it out the night of [the murder], but maybe he did. I don't know. I don't think he did. I think the monster that he carries is the monster we all carry. Except it's tempered by the blow torch that is life on death row. Season three is very much about that, about Daniel reentering that world of rules and regulations. He's made a decision, and now he's forced to live with it.
Rectify's two existing seasons are available to stream on Netflix. Season three premieres Thursday, July 9, at 10 pm Eastern on SundanceTV.
The pop culture phenomenon that is San Diego Comic-Con (SDCC) begins today. Thousands of fans, many dressed up like their favorite comic book heroes and video game characters, will make the pilgrimage to southern California to eat, drink, and breathe everything comics and Hollywood for the next four days.
This might seem a bit weird to people who have never picked up a comic book or had the spirit move them to dress like Batman. Here, then, is a brief guide to the phenomenon of a comic convention.

(Photo by Laura Cavanaugh/Getty Images)
When people talk about a "comic-con," they're usually talking about a comic convention — an event where comics fans, creators, and experts congregate to attend panels, go to parties, and participate in discussions that are all centered on some aspect of comics.
The first comic convention, according to Pop Matters, was an event called "Comiccon '64" held in New York City in July of 1964. Science fiction conventions started gaining popularity in the 1980s. The first San Diego Comic-Con, the most-attended comic convention in the country, was held in 1970.
In more recent years, these conventions have become more popular, and at some cons, like San Diego Comic-Con, the subject areas have expanded from comics to cover television shows, movies, and other forms of art and fiction that are more mainstream.

(Getty Images Entertainment)
Yes. There are comic conventions all around the country, but San Diego Comic-Con trademarked "Comic-Con" in 2005 and has threatened legal action against other conventions that use "Comic-Con" in their names. Last August, SDCC sued Salt Lake City Comic Con, claiming that SLCCC had piggybacked on its "creativity, ingenuity, and hard work," and deceived the public about the convention.
In response, SLCCC pointed out that there were multiple conventions or "comic-cons" that existed before the 2005 trademark.
The bottom line here is that there are multiple conventions, there are different companies behind each one, and there's a lot of value in them. If there weren't, why would San Diego Comic-Con apply for a trademark?
The main difference between the two, and really what sets San Diego apart from all other comic conventions, is how connected SDCC is to Hollywood and its many marketing teams. SDCC's watershed moment of Hollywood saturation came in 2010, when Robert Downey Jr. introduced the cast of The Avengers to assembled fans, two years before the movie even hit theaters. But the convention's pop culture dominance has been growing since the late 2000s, when SDCC began hosting the casts of TV and film properties like Glee and Twilight. Though many of them had nothing to do with comics, they would come to the convention and promote their work, much to fans' delight.
Even though New York Comic Con has grown more and more popular, it has a lower profile. In terms of scale, the biggest event at New York Comic Con tends to be the annual panel for The Walking Dead, whose cast members pay a visit to the convention every year. But even The Walking Dead is no Avengers.
This lack of Hollywood hype for New York Comic Con translates to more attention paid to smaller projects and more of a focus on comics news.
Hundreds of thousands. Here's a look at attendance figures for comic-cons in San Diego, New York, and the up-and-coming Seattle/Emerald City over the years. You'll notice that San Diego has had a sustained 100,000-plus audience since 2006:

A note on the graph: San Diego Comic-Con reports its attendance as "130,000+" while New York Comic Con rounds to the thousands. We plugged in 130,000 as San Diego Comic-Con's numbers. New York Comic Con considers itself the "second-largest comic book and pop culture event in the country."
There are many reasons why comic conventions have gained so much steam in the last few years, including mainstream pop culture being inundated with comic book projects, more people being interested in comic books, and so on.
San Diego Comic-Con's constant popularity has probably affected the profile of other conventions, too. In terms of attendance, there are people who can't make it to San Diego year after year, so they instead attend conventions closer to their homes. In terms of business, higher-ups who work on movies or television shows might seek out other conventions like New York's or Emerald City's if those cities are a better fit for the projects they're pushing or if they're backing projects that aren't as huge as The Avengers.

(Getty Images Entertainment)
No. What you're talking about is cosplay (costume play). Lots of people attend comic conventions in costume, but it's not a requirement.

(Chris Frawley/Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. via Getty Images)

This is one of the biggest complaints you'll hear from devout comic convention-goers. These events have capacity limits, and when you get to the big two — New York and San Diego — those limits will be hit, and people will be shut out. Tickets to the bigger cons are a hot commodity, and draw the attention of scalpers who sell the tickets for inflated prices.
In 2014, New York Comic Con's passes sold out in minutes. Those passes were resold on sites like eBay and StubHub for higher prices. San Diego Comic-Con regularly sells out in minutes, as well. That sucks for fans.
But there's also a cultural dilemma. Because Hollywood has gotten so involved, you might have some diehard Twilight fans show up (as they did in San Diego in 2012) to a convention for one event, while actual comic book fans, ostensibly the people the convention is designed for, get turned away.
Jim Demonakos, the founder of Emerald City Comicon in Seattle, explained to me that what drives Emerald City's con is whether the fans are happy. His rule is that the fan experience dictates capacity.
"You can grow as big as you want … as long as you're still delivering a good product to your fans," he said. "So really, what is too big? When you're creating an experience, that is overall negative."
ECCC has grown exponentially in the past few years and welcomed an estimated 70,000 people in 2014; the event is expecting around 80,000 in 2015.

(Alberto E. Rodriguez/Getty Images for Disney)
There are a lot of reasons. Something like the cast of The Avengers appearing is guaranteed to put a lot of butts in seats, and it also puts pressure on other movies and studios to promote themselves at comic conventions.
But probably the most important factor for the growth of comic conventions is that nerd/geek culture has gone mainstream. It isn't just comic book fans who know about the Guardians of the Galaxy now, and it's not just geeks who know about the Dark Knight. Liking comic books or superheroes has become like having a favorite band, and comic conventions are like concerts.
You also have to consider the marketing that goes into these conventions. People running the events want to make money — at least as much money as they're putting in. And in order to get people to attend, you have to advertise and get the word out. Having big names on a poster (or even simply rumored to possibly appear) helps a lot in that regard.
"Marketing is the most important job there is when it comes to a public event," Ben Penrod, who founded Awesome Con, told me, explaining that he spends four to five hours per day on marketing. "That's not to downplay the amount of work that goes into making the event happen, but none of that matters if people don't show up."
San Diego Comic-Con is going to have a different feel this year. Marvel Studios, which has pretty much had a stranglehold on SDCC buzz for the last few years, is skipping the 2015 event. Instead, expect for announcements and surprises from franchises like The Hunger Games, Fox's X-Men, and Warner Bros.' Justice League to dominate the weekend's news.
For the last several days, several of Vox's writers have been discussing the third season of Orange Is the New Black. Before you dig into this final installment, check out our review of the full season, as well the archive of our entire conversation to date.
Todd VanDerWerff, culture editor: To conclude our discussion of Orange Is the New Black's third season, I want to shift the topic to how I think the season will ultimately function in the series' complete run. In short, I think we'll look back on it as a kind of perfect breather between the frantic first two seasons and what looks to be a harder turn in the seasons to come.
In my argument in favor of Piper that kicked off this series of posts, I mentioned that Orange Is the New Black's timeline is advancing such that her stay at Litchfield will likely end in season five or six. By that standard, then, season three will mark the center of the series, and be the season where everything pivots. Although I don't think creator Jenji Kohan and her writers have planned out their story to that exact of a degree, I would be very surprised if they haven't at least thought about where it's headed.
In short, season three functions as a respite from everything else. The complaints about the show's whitewashing of its characters' criminal pasts (complaints I don't really agree with) seemed to come up a lot more often this season than in the past, and I think that's because its tone was more forthrightly comedic than it's ever been, as if to make a complete break from the darker season two.
I think we'll look back on season three as a kind of perfect breather between the frantic first two seasons and what looks to be a harder turn in the seasons to come
But the season finale underlines just how all of season three's hijinks lulled us into a sort of false complacency, as perfectly illustrated by the women's sprint into the lake for a swim. In that moment, they have the illusion of freedom, with no fences or bars holding them back and the cool splash of water on their faces. But they also don't truly have freedom. The lake is too large to really make a break for it, and it doesn't appear as if any of them would even really want to. In general, they're committed to just keeping their heads down and getting through this.
Except Orange Is the New Black's point is that being in prison isn't really living, nor is it just punishment for any crime, no matter how severe. Even a minimum security facility like Litchfield inherently dehumanizes the people who reside (and work) there, not so much rehabilitating them as turning them into people who mostly belong at Litchfield. (That point was more successfully driven home by Taystee's journey back in season one than it has been by anything else.) No matter how certain events transpire to make these women feel as if they have some degree of agency over their own lives, they don't. Not really. Agency is a mirage that pops up every so often, but it largely serves to turn the women against each other.
Netflix
The greatest agency, then, is in the collective, in the moments when the women band together and fight back against the system that reduces them to dehumanized cogs in a giant machine. And that's all well and good if Litchfield remains the size it's been in Orange Is the New Black's first three seasons, but the final moments of season three serve as a wake-up call to the implausibility of that idea. The prison is about to get much, much larger. The women we've come to know will presumably be even more lost, even more like interchangeable pieces of the bigger picture. Litchfield is about to become even more of a factory of exploitation.
If Orange Is the New Black has a central message, it's the idea that every human being is worthy of value. And if it has a secondary message, it's the idea that the systems human beings establish, whether they're public or private, always end up pitting us against each other, turning us into either exploiters or the exploited — and sometimes both at the same time.
The first three seasons of Orange Is the New Black contained plenty of despairing moments. But things are about to get much worse.
Read our review of season three.
Previous entry
Ariana Grande is one of the biggest names in pop music. For those who haven't been paying attention, it might seem like she came out of nowhere and rocketed into the national spotlight. And indeed, with two albums in two years, Grande's ascent to pop stardom was swift.
However, the singer is now under fire for being an unpatriotic doughnut licker. Here's a recap of her career thus far.
Ariana Grande (pronounced grahn-day) is a 22-year-old actress turned singer-songwriter. She is known for her hit songs "The Way" and "Problem." She's 5 feet tall, she (almost) has the lungs of Mariah Carey, and she opened for Justin Bieber after her debut album launched.

Ariana Grande is unamused. (Jim Spellman/Getty)
Pretty much. Ariana Grande's birth name is Ariana Grande-Butera. Grande is her mother's maiden name.  She does not have a middle name, as she made very clear in this tweet. She is "Italian American, half Sicilian and half Abruzzese."
Ariana Grande began her career when she appeared in the Broadway musical 13 in 2008. In 2010, she also landed a role on the Nickelodeon show Victorious, where she played Cat Valentine. Eventually Victorious was canceled, but in 2012, Grande's character was spun off into the show Sam & Cat, where Grande had a more central role than she had on Victorious.

Grande has a couple of advantages over other child stars. First, she started later than many of them. When she began her career at 13, she was already old enough to decide what she wanted to do and how she wanted to accomplish it.
More importantly though, there was already a very clear distinction between who she played on Nickelodeon and who she was in real life because — unlike Britney Spears, for example — she had always been a character on television instead of a dramatized version of herself.
She released her first album, Yours Truly, while filming Sam & Cat, after being scouted by Scooter Braun, the god of pop music managers, who also discovered and promoted Justin Bieber. "I don't think she needs to worry about anything other than being who she is," Braun told Complex magazine.
Grande later put acting on the back burner in order to pursue her music career.
Because of her vocal range, Grande is often compared to power vocalist Mariah Carey. At four octaves, it isn't quite the five octaves and two notes that Carey has, but it's not too shabby. Grande has called Carey the greatest vocalist who ever lived because of "her range, her ability, and her control." Just listen to her cover Carey's "Emotions":

Nope. Nope. Not at all.
Ariana Grande is a horrible dancer, though she is improving. When she performed songs on her first album, she followed in the (non-)footsteps of powerhouse vocalists like Mariah Carey and Celine Dion, in that she stood still and let her voice do the heavy lifting.
But in the promotion for her second album, she tried to make the transition to pop princess, which meant she tried to dance. For Grande, most dancing is really just hair flipping. Watch her try here:

Since this performance, though, Grande seems to be improving on stage. At her performance at the NBA All-Star game in February, Grande showed better stage presence and was generally more engaged with her audience. That said, her dancing was still pretty bad.
No. Demons are.
Grande has made it very clear that she does not believe humans are the only intelligent beings on this planet. She told Complex magazine about a time that she photographed "three distinct faces" of demons, but later deleted the photo because it was "666 megabytes." Grande told Complex that she is very afraid of demons and something she calls black matter:
"Every time I closed my eyes I started seeing these really disturbing images with, like, red shapes. Then I opened my eyes and got back on the phone and was like, "I'm really scared and I don't want to go to bed tonight." And then I scooched over to the left side of my bed, because that's where the best service is in my room, and there was this massive black matter. I don't know what it was. It was like a cloud of something black right next to me. I started crying."

In the summer of 2014, in a drought of new music, Grande released two songs: a pop anthem and a star-studded collaboration. Her single "Problem" featuring Iggy Azalea was a contender for song of the summer. Then she released "Break Free," a pop R&B jam that showcases her massive soprano range. Both songs were hits.
Grande also provided guest vocals on Jessie J's 2014 single "Bang Bang," which ultimately led to Grande having three songs at once in the top 10 of Billboard's Hot 100.
From there, her fame only grew. Her sophomore album, My Everything, was released in August 2014 by Republic Records, a division of Universal Music Group, and was immediately a triple threat. Grande also filmed a music video with Iggy Azalea, performed at the 2014 VMAs (where she won Best Pop Video), appeared on Saturday Night Live, and debuted a host of commercials for Target and Beats headphones.
Additionally, My Everything was produced by powerhouse pop producer Max Martin. Martin is the producer who made Britney Spears a huge success and helped Taylor Swift turn the corner from country rocker to international pop star. As evidenced from the first single off My Everything, "Problem," Grande, too, was trying to make the transition from young talent with a golden voice to superstar. And she was doing so under Martin's direction, which gave her a distinct advantage.
In 2015, Grande has gone on tour, started work on a third album, and signed on to play a role on the upcoming Fox horror comedy Scream Queens, which debuts in September.


Ariana Grande performs in concert. (Imeh Akpanudosen/Getty)
The easiest answer here is maybe. Grande has potential. Her first album,Yours Truly, debuted atop on the Billboard chart, putting her in the same ranks as Britney Spears and Beyoncé, but also Ashlee Simpson. The first album for each of those artists debuted at No. 1. For Britney and Beyoncé, that meant infinite fame. For Ashlee Simpson, not so much. Unlike Simpson, Grande certainly has a natural talent in her impressive vocal range. That, by itself, could propel her to further fame.
Unlike many of those artists, though, Grande's second album My Everything also debuted at No. 1 giving her two No. 1 albums in a row.  Not only is that incredibly rare, but it means that Grande had two No. 1 albums in under a year. Grande is one of only three women to do that since Nielsen started tracking album sales in 1991. (The other two are Susan Boyle and LeAnn Rimes). Only five male acts have performed the same feat.
Even after Taylor Swift's 1989 was released in October 2014, Grande's My Everything remained in Billboard's Top 25 albums. Throughout 2015, it has remained in Billboard's Top 100 albums.
So while she may not be able to dance, it appears Grande is here to stay.

During the Fourth of July weekend, a security camera in a California doughnut shop caught Grande allegedly licking doughnuts she hadn't paid for. In the video, which was acquired by TMZ, Grande seems to be licking doughnuts that are sitting out on the shop's counter, which she does while employees' backs are turned. Later in the clip, she looks at a fresh tray of doughnuts presented to her by one of the shop's employees and exclaims, "What the fuck is that? I hate Americans. I hate America. That's disgusting."
Though it's difficult to tell whether any actual contact was made between Grande's tongue and the sugary pastries, the video spread quickly via Twitter, where #donutgate and #doughnutgate hashtags were born. While some people were outraged by the singer's less-than-patriotic statements, others were more horrified by her treatment of innocent rings of deep-fried dough.
On Wednesday, July 8, Grande addressed the incident in a statement to BuzzFeed, apologizing and explaining that her behavior was an extension of her views on America's obesity crisis:
I am EXTREMELY proud to be an American and I've always made it clear that I love my country. What I said in a private moment with my friend, who was buying the donuts, was taken out of context, and I am sorry for not using more discretion with my choice of words. As an advocate for healthy eating, food is very important to me and I sometimes get upset by how freely we as Americans consume things without giving any thought to the consequences that it has on our health and society as a whole. The fact that the United States has the highest child obesity rate in the world frustrates me. We need to do more to educate ourselves and our children about the dangers of overeating and the poison that we put into our bodies. We need to demand more from our food industry. However I should of known better in how I expressed myself; and with my new responsibility to others as a public figure I will try to be better.
She also tweeted the statement herself, admitting she needs to "clean up this mouth of mine" and promising that she's "always learning":

need to clean up this mouth of mine & set a better example for my babes. i apologize and i love you. always learning. pic.twitter.com/BkJWcLxR5y
In sum, Grande loves her country and just wants its citizens to stay healthy, okay?
Donald Trump is not going to be the next Republican nominee for president of the United States. But he's not running for president because he wants to mount a serious presidential campaign. He's running for president because he wants to promote the greater glory of Donald Trump — and that means getting in the news as frequently as humanly possible.
So it's not surprising that his campaign has been dominated by a controversy over anti-Mexican slurs. Trump himself courted the controversy, and he's working doggedly to keep it alive — even though it's cost him tens of millions of dollars in lost corporate partnerships, thanks to a surprisingly successful pressure campaign by Latino activists. Companies from Macy's to NASCAR have dropped their association with Trump, turning him into a folk hero among some conservatives.
But Trump might gain less from his new conservative friends than he loses if he's cut off from the cultural mainstream. The media are covering his outrageous statements now, but once his campaign is over (or becomes irrelevant) the mainstream media might find him just as toxic as corporate America does right now. And that's a high cost indeed for a man who seems to crave fame more than anything else.
This started all the way back during Trump's campaign launch on June 16, when — among plenty of other ridiculous things — he said that Mexican immigrants were "bringing drugs. And they're bringing crime. And they're rapists." When MSNBC asked him about it the next day, he reiterated: "We have drug dealers coming across, we have rapists, we have murderers, we have killers."
It goes without saying that most immigrants from Mexico are not murderers, rapists, or drug dealers (if you must know, immigrants commit fewer crimes than native-born citizens). But what made Trump's comments particularly offensive was that he wasn't talking just about unauthorized immigrants — he was talking about all immigrants. "They're sending us not their finest people," he said of Mexico and other countries that send immigrants to the US. It was an impressively broad insult against American Latinos. (In subsequent statements, Trump has tried to pull the "some of my best friends are Mexican" card and say he wasn't talking about legal immigrants.)

He's continued to defend and reiterate these statements. After a couple of weeks — as it became harder to get attention for repeating what he'd already said — he added a new claim: that "tremendous infectious disease is pouring across the border."
That's both inaccurate and kind of stale (people have been complaining about immigrants bringing disease since before illegal immigration was even a thing). But it got him a new wave of press.
If none of this sounds like the behavior of a serious presidential candidate, that's because Donald Trump is not a serious presidential candidate. Donald Trump is running for president because Donald Trump may very well be the thirstiest human being alive.
Remember that Trump first flirted with running for president in 2000 — when he championed universal health care and a tax plan to the left of self-proclaimed socialist Bernie Sanders. But by the Obama era, there was a much bigger media economy in conservative, Tea Party–style resentment politics. So that's where Trump went. In 2012 he went so far as embracing birtherism to keep himself in the news, before ultimately deciding not to run after all.
DONALD TRUMP IS RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT BECAUSE DONALD TRUMP MAY WELL BE THE THIRSTIEST HUMAN BEING ALIVE
It appears that Trump felt he needed to actually file some paperwork to get anyone to pay attention to him this time around. Maybe he worried that after two rounds of crying wolf, he wouldn't be taken seriously if he simply dropped hints. Meanwhile, as Alyssa Rosenberg of the Washington Post (who's been doing some of the sharpest writing on Trump) has reported, his current star vehicle, Celebrity Apprentice, has been losing viewers for a while now; maybe he felt he needed this presidential run to reboot his media career.
Right now, it's looking very good for him — he's doing surprisingly well in the polls. But this is almost certainly due to name recognition: More people who are getting called by pollsters have heard of Donald Trump than have heard of Scott Walker. (My colleague Andrew Prokop has a very persuasive article about this, if you're not convinced.)
That's put Trump's Republican opponents in an awkward position — most of them have condemned him, but only after weeks of hoping he would just go away on his own. Liberal Latino and immigration advocacy groups, on the other hand, are happy to treat Trump as a serious Republican candidate, for the purposes of demanding that other Republicans and the RNC distance themselves from him. They're treating Trump as the Republican id: He expresses racist feelings that some liberals suspect many Republicans secretly harbor but lack the cojones to say out loud.
Ironically, while Trump's knack for getting into headlines is what's driving his current surge, the surge justifies continuing to cover him as a candidate. As Prokop writes, and as we saw in 2011, the hype cycle can give a candidate a brief surge in support — but once his 15 minutes of hype are over, he doesn't get more press attention than any other second-tier candidate.
That said, it is unclear how far Trump actually plans to go in the Republican primary. Getting on state ballots takes work. And Trump doesn't need to be covered as a candidate — he just needs to be covered, period.
On June 25, Spanish cable network Univision said it was pulling out of its contract to broadcast the Miss USA pageant (which Trump owns) in Spanish. That emboldened activists to push for a broader boycott of Trump — and put companies that had business relationships with him on the defensive.
On June 29, after a Change.org petition to NBC got 200,000 signatures in three days, NBC severed its ties with Trump, including not only the main broadcast of the Miss USA and Miss Universe pageants but also his role in Celebrity Apprentice. On July 1, Macy's said it would no longer stock Trump-brand clothing (which, to the internet's delight, is mostly made in Mexico). Mattress brand Serta isn't renewing its contract to sell Trump-branded mattresses. NASCAR isn't holding its award ceremony at a Trump hotel anymore. Washington, DC restaurateur Jose Andres has pulled out of a deal to open a restaurant at a hotel Trump is building. And both ESPN and the PGA have pulled out of hosting golf tournaments at one of Trump's resorts.

Happier days for Trump and NASCAR. (Chris Graythen/Getty)
Trump's reaction to all of this has varied depending on what he thinks will keep him in the news. He's accused Univision of being controlled by the Mexican government, tried to ban its employees from his hotels, and filed a ridiculous $500 million lawsuit against the company. He claimed he decided to leave Macy's — not the other way around — because they were trying to impinge on his freedom of speech. And he issued a press release bragging about the cancellation fees he'd collect from ESPN and NASCAR.
But he's also used the losses to portray himself as a conservative culture-war hero being victimized by the politically correct left. On July 6, he told Fox News that "it's bad for my brand, I'm losing customers" — the implication being that he was doing something that he knew would hurt him financially because America deserved to know the truth.
So how much is all of this costing Trump? We don't know for sure.
One estimate, by the Wrap, came out to $50.5 million (and that was before the partnerships with ESPN, NASCAR, and the PGA got severed). Another, much less conservative estimate from Vice came out to $78.5 million.
The biggest loss for Trump is his salary as Celebrity Apprentice host and producer — rumor has it he made $65 million from NBC, but NBC says that rumor is laughably high. (The Wrap, trying to account for this, estimates Trump's contract at $32.5 million.) The Miss America and Miss USA broadcast rights, which started the whole thing, actually come out to very little of Trump's empire: about $14.5 million. (Trump's Macy's sales were even more negligible.)

If and when Trump files financial disclosure forms with the Federal Election Commission, he'll have to show a little more detail about his assets — which could give the public a little more information about what he's lost. The FEC filings don't provide a tremendous amount of information — this article by Bloomberg's Richard Rubin is a great explanation of what they entail. But they're still detailed enough to make candidates nervous. Especially rich candidates. Especially rich candidates whose businesses have gone bankrupt several times. (When Trump ended up not running in 2012, some speculated that he didn't want to go through with the financial disclosures.)
Until then, there isn't much better information than what Trump himself says. And Trump has been known to exaggerate his finances. When he ran for president, he issued a one-page summary of his assets that came out to nearly $8 billion; Forbes has been tracking Trump's fortune for decades, and says it's closer to $4.1 billion or so.
Even $4.1 billion, though, is a lot more than the $50 million or more that Trump has lost. The lion's share of his wealth comes from his real estate holdings. And that's one part of his empire that hasn't been touched by the current controversy.

Most of Trump's fortune is in real estate. (Mark Wilson/Getty)
The city of New York says it's reviewing Trump's real estate contracts in light of his comments, including a $230 million golf course deal. Lawyers are skeptical that the city would be allowed to revoke a contract based on a contractor's offensive opinions. On the other hand, it's hypothetically possible — though unlikely — that recent rumors that unauthorized immigrants are working to build Trump properties in Washington, DC, could give cities an excuse to void the contracts.
While $50 million isn't much money to Donald Trump, it's a lot of money to people who aren't Donald Trump. And the fact that over the course of a few weeks several different corporations have felt enough pressure to drop their associations with Trump is inarguably a victory for the Latino activists who started the campaign (which has taken the hashtag #DumpTrump on Twitter, because of course it has) and for the Latino media groups that have supported them.
CORPORATIONS ARE MORE INTERESTED IN CATERING TO LATINOS THAN TO PEOPLE WHO HATE POLITICAL CORRECTNESS
Corporations like NBC and ESPN are trying to appeal to the large and growing Latino market. They've made the calculation that they could get enough good press with Latinos out of dropping Trump that it would outweigh any logistical costs associated with dumping him — or, for that matter, any boycotting they'd get from older conservatives in protest. It's impossible to know whether they'll actually get more money by dumping Trump than they would have by keeping him, but it's significant that they're more interested in catering to the Latino market than to opponents of political correctness.
Opponents of political correctness may not be worth as much money to megacorporations as Latinos are. But they're a consumer market, and a media market, of their own. And Trump's provocations are both the result of his need to get media attention as often as possible, and part of a strategy to claim the mantle of conservative culture-war hero.
There's a weird symbiosis between Trump (and other culture trolls, like Ann Coulter) and the liberal activists who work to shame him. Left-leaning Latino and immigration advocates treat Trump as the id of white conservatives, saying things that Ted Cruz, for example, wouldn't say. That's exactly the image Trump himself wants to project: a bold truth teller who says the things career politicians believe but are afraid to say out loud.

Hey, Vox has a lot of pictures of Donald Trump yelling. What can I say.
If Trump has a plan for keeping himself in the public eye beyond this presidential campaign, that's probably it. The "conservative provocateur" is a pretty well-established persona for entertainers: see Ann Coulter or (in a more contemporary vein) Adam Baldwin. And indeed, as Trump continues to grind away at the "rapists" controversy, he's won some support from other conservative entertainers — like Bill O'Reilly. O'Reilly didn't defend Trump's original comments, but as Trump has continued to paint himself as a martyr to political correctness, O'Reilly is taking his claims more seriously.
Here's the problem with building a persona on culture war: You can't stay relevant if your would-be opponents aren't paying you any attention. Just look at what's happened to Ann Coulter over the past several years. Her book sales, which routinely got her on the best-seller list during the Bush years, have weakened substantially.
Coulter has tried to escalate her rhetoric to stay "provocative" — by fat-shaming a prominent unauthorized immigrant activist, for example — but for the most part, it hasn't worked. She's been reduced to whining that she doesn't make the liberal media mad anymore.(Ironically, the most prominent national journalist to give Coulter a platform is Univision's Jorge Ramos.)
Donald Trump is billions of dollars richer than Ann Coulter, and he's not going to lose that fortune anytime soon. But he's not content with money — he wants attention. His presidential run is guaranteeing a certain amount of relevance, for as long as it lasts. But he hasn't just lost money over his anti-Mexican remarks — he's lost one major media platform (Celebrity Apprentice) and a substantial amount of mainstream credibility. The corporate media sees Donald Trump as politically toxic right now. It's possible to imagine that once he's no longer a well-polling presidential candidate, the news networks that cover him now will feel the same pressure that NBC and ESPN did to stop giving him a platform.
There is money in the conservative entertainment industry, from Fox News to publishing. But without enough attention or outrage from the mainstream, there isn't a lot of fame. And fame is what Donald Trump wants.
CORRECTION: This story originally stated that the mattress brand that had (and is not renewing) a contract with Trump was Sealy. It is actually Serta.
Here’s some good news for fans of The Simpsons: The Mr. Burns (and Principal Skinner, and Ned Flanders, among others) you know and love will be back for the animated show’s 27th and 28th seasons. According to the Hollywood Reporter, Harry Shearer, the actor responsible for voicing 23 Simpsons characters, including the aforementioned, has managed to ink a new deal with Fox after announcing on May 13 that he would be leaving the show because he wanted "the freedom to pursue other work."
As THR reports:
The deal is the same as his fellow voice cast — a two-year deal with an option for another two seasons (so a potential four-year pact) and an estimated $300,000 per episode.
Shearer’s new contract means all six of The Simpsons' main voice actors will return for the next two seasons. And it appears at least one 2016 presidential candidate is claiming credit for Shearer's return:

It appears Harry Shearer was so horrified by my Simpsons impressions he agreed to return: http://t.co/z2CEFLvPQs pic.twitter.com/vHToDfHCXM


See a chart of which actor voices which characters below.
dadaviz user jishai
Few TV shows are as good — or as unjustly unsung — as FX's recently concluded backwoods Western/rural noir Justified. The story of Raylan Givens (the sterling Timothy Olyphant), a wry gunslinger and US marshal who's forced to return to his boyhood home in Kentucky and ultimately to pursue an old friend, Justified examines themes of family, history, and the pressure we feel to meet others' expectations. Throughout its six-season run, it was a rich, often beautiful series — that nonetheless possessed some of the funniest dialogue on television.

It was also inspired by a novella written by the great author Elmore Leonard. And so, as more and more TV series are adapted from other works, I decided it was time to talk to someone who's familiar with the process of adaptation about how to transform somebody else's work into a TV show or film that will be beloved for years to come. So I sat down to chat with Justified's developer and showrunner, Graham Yost, whose adaptation credits also include writing scripts for HBO miniseries based on either books or historical events, like Band of Brothers and From the Earth to the Moon.
This interview has been lightly edited for length and clarity. Justified is available to stream on Amazon Prime, and you should binge-watch it now.
The character of Boyd (Walton Goggins) died at the end of the novella Justified's pilot was based on. The show changed all that.
FX
Todd VanDerWerff: What's your process for turning a book or something else into a TV show or film?
Graham Yost: With Justified, it was both easy and hard. It was easy in the pilot in that Elmore [Leonard] had given us "Fire in the Hole," a novella. That story is a perfect fit for an hour-long episode of television. I used a lot of what he had written and then kept the [hero's] father alive, turned him into a criminal, did this and that. Made some choices, added some characters. Ultimately, we kept [the character of] Boyd alive, which is a very different ending.
Okay, what do you do for the second episode? Now it's adapting an approach, adapting a type of storytelling. It's adapting the kind of characters that Elmore would have. That became something we had to find out as we went along.
The other things I've done haven't been adaptations as much. Even Band of Brothers, which I was just one of many writers on, was an adaptation of a book, but not really. It was telling the same story as [Stephen] Ambrose's book but we could expand things, and go into certain conflicts, relationships, and characters, and spend a little more time [on them].
"What is the story? What is that thing where you can just say, 'This is about this'?"
In [the miniseries] From the Earth to the Moon, an episode I wrote on the fire in Apollo 1, what is the story? What is that thing where you can just say, "This is about this"? You can sum it up, you know? It's a fire in Apollo 1. It's the investigation as spearheaded by Frank Borman. That's it.
The episode I wrote on Band of Brothers, that was decided by the other producers. They said, "Let's make it about Lipton." Then I found that they didn't have a functioning CO, and Lipton stepped up, and he did it. It's finding that singular thing.
Graham and Connie Yost attend a screening of the Justified series finale.
FX
TV: How hard is it to find that thing?
GY: It can be really hard sometimes, and then you know you're in trouble. I did a screenplay for 20th Century Fox years ago about the Challenger space shuttle disaster. I went so far into the research that my first draft was about everything, and it just didn't work. It took a while to find the focus. It ultimately didn't get made, I think partly because it didn't have the white hat, black hat story that I think the studio wanted.
TV: Even with something like Justified, where it seems the story is pretty clear, you still have to figure out what to keep and what to throw out. How do you know something isn't really necessary for the adaptation?
GY: You put it in, and then you see. You're supposed to have a 50-page script and you've got an 80-page script. It's like, "Well, something's got to go." It really becomes the old line, you know, "Kill your darlings." That's very helpful. "Okay, what do you love the most? Let's see what it's like [without that]."
Tim (Jacob Pitts) and Rachel (Erica Tazel) didn't even exist in "Fire in the Hole," but Elmore Leonard added them to the story's novel sequel.
FX
TV: Elmore Leonard later wrote the novel Raylan, which was, in some ways, based on the TV show adaptation of his character. How did you incorporate elements from a novel that was connected to the show but that was published after the show debuted?
GY: I don't know if anyone else's had that situation before. It was odd, and it was wonderful. We knew Elmore liked the show, at least he told us that, but when Tim [Olyphant] said, "Hey, why don't you write another Raylan story," he did. He kept Boyd alive, even though he'd killed him off in "Fire in the Hole." He added Rachel and Tim even though they didn't exist in "Fire in the Hole." I was like, "That's cool! He's pitching into our show." Yet it was very much an Elmore book.
Then he gave it to us and he said, "Just hang it up and strip it for parts," which was the most generous and wonderful thing he could say. In his book, it's this character named Angel who gets his kidneys taken. Boy, what if it was Dewey [on the show]? It evolved like that. [Elmore's] character Pervis Crowe we turned into Mags Bennett, added another brother, and those became the Bennetts. It was incredibly helpful.
TV: What do you think are the most prevalent misconceptions about adaptations?
GY: I'm just going to speak specifically about Elmore Leonard. I think the mistake some people would make in adapting Elmore Leonard in the past is that they thought that they were buying a story, not realizing that they were buying characters and an approach. I remember seeing Get Shorty and then Out of Sight [which are both adapted from Leonard's work]. I took notice of Scott Frank's name, and he did a great job adapting those. Then Jackie Brown. Quentin Tarantino, Scott Frank — they let Elmore be Elmore, and they used him. That became my goal on Justified. Let's use him as much as we can, because he's just fantastic.
TV: Elmore Leonard is a great voice in American literature. How do you stay true to that voice while also writing a television show?
GY: Well, first thing you do is you pitch it to FX. You have [FX president] John Landgraf in the meeting to ask questions and give ideas. He had been a producer on Karen Sisco [another Elmore Leonard television adaptation], co-wrote an episode. He knew what gold there was in the Elmore hills, and so he just supported us right from the beginning.
In terms of the adapting for television, it's just a gut thing. In the novella, Raylan's father is dead, and he died of black lung. He'd been a coal miner. I said, "Nah, let's keep him alive. Let's make him a criminal." Because I think if a guy makes a choice to wear that hat and be a marshal in this sort of old-fashioned way, he's making a choice. I think he's making a choice in reaction to what his upbringing was.
"The hard part is knowing that I no longer have license to write like [Elmore Leonard]"
Either you've come from a cop family or you come from a criminal family if you're going to make such a choice. We thought we'd have an interesting dynamic there. Let's have [Raylan's ex-wife] Winona around. Let's not have them have kids. Let's make her new husband somewhat different than Elmore had him, give us more places to go. Let's add some characters. We need some marshals because we've got to come back week in, week out and see these people. It was decisions like that.
TV: What's been the most rewarding thing about writing in someone else's voice for the past six years, and what do you miss most about just writing in your own?
GY: It's been fun. It's been fun to write like Elmore Leonard. Some of the writers got into it. Sometimes we'd have to rein them in. The language would just go insane. For the most part, it was just a kick to be able to approach bad guys and good guys that way. Looking for this color, for this richness, this twist, this turn. The people are smart. They're pretty cool.
The hard part is knowing that I no longer have license to write like that. If I write like that any further, people are going to say, "Oh, you're writing like Elmore Leonard." When we're doing the show, it's like, "Oh, you're writing Justified, and that's your job to write like Elmore Leonard." In terms of stuff that I'd done before and may do in the future, I am a more on-the-sleeve, emotional person and writer than Elmore was in many regards. Justified was very parsimonious in those moments of emotion. They were there, and I think they had great impact because there weren't so many of them.
Ava (Joelle Carter) proved pivotal in Justified's final season.
FX
TV: The show certainly had a tendency to meander and take its time. How tight of a structure did you follow, and how much did you just explore?
GY: The writers, as the years went on, had a lot of freedom, and they would try things. In our second-to-last episode, there's this scene where Raylan's coming down the mountain looking for Ava, and Boyd's coming up looking for Ava. Chris Provenzano's first draft of that sequence was eight pages long. [I said,] "Chris, it's not going to be eight pages." He said, "I know, but I wanted to write it." He had the freedom to try that. We gave people a lot of leeway because it's amazing what you can do in editing.
TV: Even on FX, were there ever any concerns about that? TV is not known for going that long.
GY: Landgraf supported us right from the beginning. Let it be an Elmore show. Elmore would have those scenes. As long as it had a point, right? You can tell. If you're watching a scene and it's just meandering, it's not going anywhere, and there's not any great payoff, then you're probably going to cut the whole scene or just trim it way down.
The other thing is that the whole marketplace has changed, so we didn't have to stick to our 42-minute running time. When the secondary market for a show like Justified is Amazon Prime, then it doesn't matter how long it is.
TV: When did you know what the ending was going to be?
"The whole marketplace has changed, so we didn't have to stick to our 42-minute running time"
GY: There were many different versions that we played with over the years. We really started planning for it as we were breaking season five. Really the question came down to, "Was Raylan going to kill Boyd?" We made that decision last August, last September [several months before the series finale aired in April 2015] that he wouldn't, because we felt: What has the whole series been about if Raylan does that?
TV: Back when you were working on the first season, were there moments or scenes where you thought, "We're starting to figure out what this show is"?
GY: The [second episode of the whole series], "Riverbrook," I thought was very Elmore. The characters were funny, the situation was funny, but it was also bad people who have gotten together with an even badder person, a classic Elmore thing. I felt it kind of crackled along. I was like, "Great, I think we know how to do this."
Well, boy, we did not. The next episode was a real struggle, and the one after that, and the one after that. It took a long time. There was no point really in the first season where we felt like, "We've got this." I think we felt like we ended it well. I think "Bulletville" was a really great season finale.
I said to [fellow executive producer] Fred Golan at some point, "I get the feeling at the end of season six, then we'll finally know how to do this." He said, "Graham, we're never going to know how to do this."
Justified is available to stream on Amazon Prime.
San Diego Comic-Con (SDCC) is upon us. Starting Thursday, July 9, Hollywood and comic book culture will once again collide, providing us with four days of, among other things, trailers for upcoming blockbusters, special sneak peeks of new TV shows, and perhaps a surprise assembly of superheroes that we'll likely be talking about for the next few months.
Over the past several years, SDCC and the thousands of fans who make the pilgrimage to attend it have established the annual event as the place for film studios to get everyone talking. From the official Avengers cast announcement in 2010 to regular appearances from Twilight stars while the franchise was at its height, Hollywood comes to SDCC to make a statement and leave fans reeling. SDCC is where the hype begins.
This year will be no exception. From one huge, Avengers-sized hole in the lineup to what may be the biggest movie of 2015, what happens at SDCC this weekend will dictate the next few months of pop culture buzz.  Here are this year's five biggest storylines:
The biggest story of San Diego Comic-Con is actually who's not going to be there. This year, Marvel Studios is skipping the event.
"It was just timing," Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige told the Hollywood Reporter. "We had done that [media] event in October, when we announced so much. Everyone knows what we're doing over the next few years. I really have a belief: If you can't go to Comic-Con and overdeliver, then don't go."
To understand why this is a big deal, you have to go back to 2010, when Marvel used Comic-Con to introduce the people we know today as the Avengers. It was a huge moment in the history of the convention, a sign that comic books and Comic-Con itself had gone mainstream. The company then followed that up in 2012 with the announcement of Guardians of the Galaxy, and again trotted out the Avengers via a sneak peek of Avengers: Age of Ultron in 2014.
Not having Marvel at Comic-Con is kinda like not having your aunt's stuffing for Thanksgiving dinner (even if your aunt's stuffing is a little too salty). The studio has attended for so many years that not having anything from Marvel at SDCC feels a bit off.
Still, Marvel's absence opens the door for another movie to grab the SDCC spotlight.
Judging from past box office success, the biggest movie of 2015 will be The Hunger Games: Mockingjay — Part 2, which is why it's a no-brainer for the cast — Jennifer Lawrence, Josh Hutcherson, the Hemsworth that is not Thor — to attend SDCC.  It's a sendoff of sorts for the gang and this colossal movie franchise.
Those who've read the source books know that Mockingjay isn't as tight of a story as The Hunger Games' previous two installments. It lacks the structure of the arena and the conceit of the Games, and it expands into the limitless world of the Capitol. Thus, the question that defines this final movie is how exactly is that all going to translate into film? We got a sneak peek of it in the first trailer, which was released in June, but the odds look to be in favor of a juicier and more squee-worthy clip being released this weekend.
Warner Bros. and DC Comics have structured their current cinematic strategy based on how Marvel rolled out The Avengers. In 2014, Warner Bros. announced its full schedule of upcoming superhero flicks, which are spaced out just like the Iron Man, Thor, and Captain America movies that led up to the first Avengers film.
So it was only a matter of time before Warner Bros. copied Marvel's approach to introducing the Avengers to the world: Take over SDCC. It's rumored that Comic-Con attendees will be treated to something big — most likely a trailer and the appearance of a few special big-name guests — attached to Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice. However, it probably isn't too far-fetched to posit that Warner Bros. might use the occasion to give us something more, like unveiling Green Lantern casting or gifting us a gory bit from the forthcoming Suicide Squad.

Lucasfilm has said obliquely that it won't show a trailer, but has promised a behind-the-scenes look at the new movie and a couple other surprises. No matter what Lucasfilm decides to show, it will be big. Lucasfilm could show a blank screen for an hour, and people would still watch.
Just because Marvel Studios is sitting out doesn't mean that SDCC will be an exclusively DC Comics/Warner Bros. affair. There's a lot of buzz surrounding Fox, which owns the film rights to Marvel's X-Men and Fantastic Four franchises. Fantastic Four will premiere in August, while X-Men: Apocalypse is scheduled for May 2016. Both are banking on the (surprise?) momentum of 2014's X-Men: Days of Future Past.
The release of footage from Apocalypse seems like a given for SDCC considering all the teases — photos from the set, clips of Olivia Munn showing off her sword skills, official Nightcrawler pictures — that have made their way online throughout the past couple of months. And with Fantastic Four coming out in a month or so, an exclusive wouldn't be out of the picture.
But the real surprise from Fox this weekend might be related to Ryan Reynolds's 2016 Deadpool film. Reynolds has been an excellent ambassador for the project by stoking the fires of fanboy fervor — he's been actively promoting it on Twitter by revealing bits and pieces from the film. And in late May, it was announced that the filming had been completed, all but setting the timetable for Fox to indulge us with a Deadpool treat at Comic-Con.
Eiji Tsuburaya made it possible for Godzilla to stomp across the screen.
Born on July 7, 1901, Eiji Tsuburaya would have been 114 today (which is the reason he's celebrated with a playable Google Doodle). A director, cinematographer, and producer, Tsuburaya is best known for creating the special effects behind Japanese classics like  Godzilla (1954), Mothra (1961), and many other films where the giant monsters called kaiju terrorize the good people of Tokyo.
And his legacy extends beyond those monsters — he built a foundation for film culture in Japan and special effects worldwide.
Tsuburaya with a costume from 1961's Mothra.
Chronicle Books
August Ragone tells Tsuburaya's story in his picture-packed biography Eiji Tsuburaya: Master of Monsters, and he shows how Tsuburaya created definitive movie monsters that have stood the test of time. "Spanning decades of film work, when he shifted gears from cinematography to visual effects in the 1930s, not only did he capture the audience's imaginations with his work, he was peerless among his contemporaries in Japan," Ragone told me. But when Tsuburaya was born, the film industry didn't even yet exist.
Tsuburaya grew up about 125 miles north of Tokyo in Sukagawa, Iwase, a son of a prominent family of grocery distributors. A prodigy from a young age, as a kid he was interviewed about his model airplanes and credited in local newspapers as a "child craftsman." Shortly thereafter, he was captivated by a new technology called motion pictures — and he combined his two passions by taking pictures of planes.
Soon, he broke into film, as well, serving as a cameraman on his first movie in 1919. Though there were a few diversions (including an early Imperial Army stint), he quickly rose through the ranks while inventing new filmmaking tools, including more flexible camera cranes. But it was 1933's King Kong that led to his greatest professional epiphany.
King Kong changed his life
King Kong's giant title character and phenomenal special effects opened up a new world of possibilities for Tsuburaya. As Ragone writes, "It is no exaggeration to say that the 'eighth wonder of the world' [King Kong] was responsible for changing Tsuburaya’s life and the course of his career."
By studying a copy of the film, Tsuburaya managed to reverse engineer how the effects were made. Then he was ready to begin creating his own legacy.
Tsuburaya supervises The Great Monster War (1965).
Chronicle Books
Being a film revolutionary wasn't easy. Ragone describes early battles over budget and setup, but when a new company called Toho Motion Picture Company was founded in 1936, Tsuburaya jumped on board to lead the special effects department.
After being drafted to work on propaganda films in World War II (and experiencing the napalm bombing of Tokyo), he returned to work at Toho after the end of US occupation in 1952, keeping a low profile because the US believed he'd committed espionage.
It was in that climate that producer Tomoyuki Tanaka was artistically inspired by the fallout of a US hydrogen bomb test in the Marshall Islands. The real story of a radiation-poisoned fishing crew inspired Tanaka to pitch a monster movie to Tsuburaya and Toho. After some creative wrangling, that monster became Godzilla.
A legendary monster was born...
For Godzilla, Tsuburaya made the bold choice to use miniatures and visual effects instead of stop-motion animation, which was a more obvious alternative. The idea to put an actor in a monster costume was going to be executed as never before, and with it a legendary monster was born.
Though Godzilla was the product of a large team, it came alive because of Tsuburaya's use of models, special photography, and, of course, those inimitable costumes.
Godzilla was a tough shoot. Actors were stuffed into a costume that was, at its lightest, 220 pounds. They breathed in kerosene from the fumes of a tiny "Tokyo" model burning beneath them, and actor Haruo Nakajima says he lost 20 pounds in the production because the costume was so physically strenuous.
The film was a financial risk, as well — it became the most expensive Japanese movie made up to that time.
But Godzilla was a hit, and it kicked off "monster mania." Some of Tsuburaya's many subsequent movies might not be as familiar — they include The Abominable Snowman (1954) and 1956's Rodan: Monster of the Sky. Still, film by film, these movies created a kaiju iconography that shaped an entire film industry's sensibility — and built a legacy for Tsuburaya.
Godzilla, still towering over cities everywhere.
Silver Screen Collection/Getty Images
Tsuburaya's professional and creative successes continued through the 1960s, as he innovated with more intricate models and formed his own company, Tsuburaya Visual Effects Productions, in 1963.
While there, he created what kaiju superfans consider his landmark work, Mothra vs. Godzilla (1964), as well as enduring Japanese television institutions like the heroic Ultraman (1966). "In Japan, even more so than Godzilla, first and foremost, is Ultraman," Ragone says. Though Tsuburaya died in 1970, his creations remain embedded in the culture today.

Even to those who aren't fans of Tsuburaya's distinctive style, his aesthetic, effects, and ethos permeate movies today. There are obvious influences, like the many Godzilla remakes and the kaiju fan letter that is 2013's Pacific Rim. "Godzilla and Tsuburaya are one and the same," Ragone says. The same influence goes for Ultraman: "Without Ultraman, there would be no Power Rangers."
Tsuburaya's influence can also be seen in every disaster movie's audacious carnage and ever-more-adventurous willingness to push boundaries using special effects.
That's probably why we still thrill to learn about the man who made all those monster suits really roar. Because even now, more than 50 years later, it's as exciting, outrageous, and thrilling as when Godzilla first hit the screen.
For the next several days, several of Vox's writers will discuss the third season of Orange Is the New Black. Before you dig into the latest round, check out our review of the full season, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date.
David Roberts, climate change writer: I find myself in the odd position of disagreeing with lots of what my colleagues have said about the third season of Orange Is the New Black. It is my favorite season so far — and the things I like best about it are precisely the things other people are identifying as flaws, namely its slow pace and lack of overarching plot.
The way I see it, series creator Jenji Kohan made Orange Is the New Black because she wanted to accomplish two things:
In order to smuggle this kind of thing onto the air, she had to camouflage it in two different ways:
I suspect these latter two elements, which American TV audiences have been trained to expect, are what made Netflix executives comfortable producing a series with the former two. All praise goes to Kohan for pulling it off.
I'm most moved not by the show's big twists, but by the small dramas
But in my opinion, Kohan not only cares more about the former, she's way better at the former. I enjoy Orange Is the New Black most when we're just hanging out in the cafeteria with its characters, listening to them BS about how words are pronounced, some weird species of frog, or food they miss from the outside. I could listen to Taystee and Poussey banter about nothing all day long.
And I'm most moved not by the show's big twists, but by the small dramas, the relentless, step-wise way the prison system corrodes the soul of everyone involved in it. The struggle to be a good mother behind bars, the transient nature of prison friendships, the way captivity makes both captive and captor less human — that's the stuff that gets me.
Consider the scene in season three's first episode, when Ruiz learns from her boyfriend that he won't be bringing her kid to see her anymore. There's no swelling music, no lingering close-ups, no tender, eloquent final words. It's fast, awkward, and brutal, and a hundred times more affecting for it.
Meanwhile, the minute Piper comes on screen, I lose interest. Her on-again, off-again romance with Alex is Orange Is the New Black's most boring subplot, by a wide margin, and her evolution from ingenue into hardened gangster is implausible in the extreme.

What's more, the bigger and more dramatic the plots, the less I enjoy them. Unlike apparently everyone else, I hated the entire Vee plot line from season two; she was cartoonishly evil and made the show cartoonish as a result. And my least favorite bits of this season are its biggest through lines: the Piper love triangle; the panty-smuggling; the ridiculous Norma cult thing.
Excess plot is what destroyed Kohan's previous show, Weeds, which began as an interesting character study only to be overtaken by outlandish twists, one after another, long past the point I stopped caring. (This also explains why I've never been a fan of Shonda Rhimes's shows — the characters just seem like pawns, moved around and rearranged in service of "moments" people will tweet about.)
I was worried Orange Is the New Black would follow the same trajectory, as Kohan started trying to top herself. But instead she's gone in the other direction with season three, easing back into a calmer pace and spending more time on characters and small-scale dramas. I hope she stays the course. The less plot, the better. (Somehow I doubt this is the kind of note Kohan is getting from network execs.)
I should probably stop there, but since I'm a certified Orange Is the New Black fanboy I want to call out two of the show's greatest strengths, which season three has highlighted to great effect.
1) Real diversity
I'm a liberal in good standing, committed to racial equality, feminism, checking my privilege, and all the rest. But that's abstract. The fact is, I've spent most of my life in contexts (middle Tennessee, academic philosophy, energy wonkery) dominated by white men. In those contexts, other people behave how they behave around white men. It's not false or fake, necessarily, but it is inevitably conditioned. That's what it means to be part of a privileged demographic: You are the baseline, and others adjust to you. And like a fish in water, it's difficult to even notice.
One thing good storytelling can do is allow people to experience worlds in which they (and people like them) play no part. Orange Is the New Black offers a glimpse of prison life to people who've never been incarcerated, obviously. But it also portrays Latina women talking to other Latina women; black women talking to other black women; poor women talking to other poor women.
In the process, it highlights how very rarely TV does that. Though the level of diversity on TV is rising, it's still largely dominated by "the black one" and "the Latina one" and "the gay one," shows that take pride in looking like Benetton ads. It's rare for "the Latina one" to spend much time interacting with another Latina one, much less a few Latina ones, much less only Latina ones. So you get surface diversity without actually learning much about diverse subcultures, how they look from the inside.
The women on Orange Is the New Black can simply be women
What Orange Is the New Black does, like few other mainstream shows, is portray women of all colors, shapes, sizes, and sexualities — all these varieties so rare on mainstream TV — interacting with each other (rendering the Bechdel test almost quaint). There are white dudes around, on the periphery, but they mostly intrude with arbitrary authority or physical and psychological violence. They are not particularly interesting people. (Bennett turned out to be a callow coward. And is there a more convincing sad sack in the history of TV than Sam Healy?)
Without the pressure to be "the black one," representing blackness itself, the black women on Orange Is the New Black can simply be women, individuals with different flaws, habits, attitudes, and patterns of speech. The show explodes the lumpen category of "black women" (or "Latina women," etc.) and replaces it with an array of real human beings. That's what the series' opening credits are about: a stream of faces you never see on TV, each indelible and unique.
Roger Ebert once called cinema "a machine that generates empathy." That's what real diversity does. Putting black/Latina/transgender/whatever women on screen is not some kind of prize for those women, a favor someone's doing for them. They benefit from seeing themselves on screen, but they are not the only or even the primary beneficiaries. It's the other viewers who benefit, because it affords them a new opportunity to encounter those women as full, flawed human beings, thereby expanding their moral imaginations.
2) Real people
Speaking of empathy, it's extraordinary for a TV show with such an enormous cast to afford every single one of its characters a measure of depth and complexity. On network shows, it's typical for only the leads to enjoy that luxury (if anyone does), and even on fancy cable ensemble shows it's often a small handful of characters who are allowed more than one or two personality traits. But Kohan's appetite for humanity is capacious; she has abandoned the notion of "leads" altogether and pursued something more sprawling and egalitarian. Even characters who begin as caricatures — think Pennsatucky or Crazy Eyes — have been given pasts, shades and hues, and the occasional touch of grace.

And no character is a hero or a villain. They all have pasts that help explain where they ended up, but none is excused from responsibility. Gloria strives to be a good mother, but she's also hot-tempered and callous toward outsiders. Caputo cares for his prisoners and guards, but he's also passive-aggressive and ambitious. Dayanara is soft and kind, but she's also a wishy-washy pushover. Pennsatucky has a tender heart (who knew?) and a razor-sharp wit, but she's also ignorant and racist. They are not purely victims — they all make terrible, cruel, selfish decisions, one unforced error after another — but neither are any of them purely malicious or stupid.
Orange Is the New Black is unsparing in portraying the flaws and weaknesses in its characters, but at the same time it never allows viewers to forget that every character, in the right context, can offer kindness and compassion. Everyone is messy and self-destructive but also hungry for love and, if you can look past all the crap, worthy of it.
To me, Orange Is the New Black is a feast of empathy. That's one reason I don't find the show particularly bingeable — when I finish an episode, I feel stuffed. I don't want to rush forward to consume more plot, I want to spend a day thinking about what it means that Janae was raised in the Nation of Islam, or whether Nicky deserved what happened to her, or why Sophia held on to sexist attitudes after her conversion.
I know Orange Is the New Black isn't perfect; some of its backstories are too pat and some of its plot lines too broad, almost slapstick. It doesn't always hang together. There are better TV shows, considered purely as art. But it's difficult to think of a show with a bigger heart, or a show that tries harder to enlarge the hearts of its viewers. I hope it never gives that up in pursuit of tweetable plots.
Read our review of season three. Come back soon for more discussion.
Previous entry
On June 22, 2015, NBC canceled Hannibal. That's what the headlines (including this one) said, and it was probably the best way to communicate what had transpired: the network had announced that the brilliant serial killer drama would be allowed to finish its currently airing, abysmally rated third season, but after that, NBC would air no more episodes.
This is a story of interest to anyone who cares about television
So, yes, that was technically a "cancellation," but in our modern TV landscape, that term has come to mean less and less. See, even though Hannibal is one of the lowest-rated shows on broadcast television, it boasts a ridiculously dedicated fanbase and better ratings once DVR playback and streaming are taken into account. And all of that means it's at least somewhat likely — if not quite a given — that Hannibal will live again, to the degree that the series' creator and showrunner, Bryan Fuller, is giving interviews and openly admitting the show could very well live again.

And while that's of paramount importance to Hannibal fans, it also provides a window into the increasingly complicated world of TV economics — and why shows that are canceled are more likely than ever to be uncanceled.
That's a story of interest to anyone who cares about television.

Hannibal isn't so sure how he feels about us splitting hairs on this point. (NBC)
"Cancel" implies that NBC bears the sole responsibility for determining whether more episodes of Hannibal will be produced in the future. And throughout almost all of television history, that would have been true. But in the case of Hannibal, which is propped up by a complicated combination of deals made in other countries, it's just not.
Indeed, Hannibal's relationship with NBC seems to have largely been a way for the series' production partners (which include Sony Pictures Television and the American division of French company Gaumont) to convince foreign buyers that it was a serious US TV show. The US television industry remains the most popular producer of the medium in the world, and Fuller has indicated that NBC's link to Hannibal allowed Gaumont to cut deals for the show all over the globe. (To briefly explain why this is the case, foreign broadcasters often place a premium on shows from certain American networks. As one of the oldest, NBC would likely benefit from that sort of treatment.)
NBC was only paying $185,000 per episode to air Hannibal
NBC was on board with Hannibal from the very beginning, but as the show progressed and became more popular in other countries, it was less important for NBC to remain involved, at least from a strictly monetary perspective. The network helped get the show made and sold, but its role going forward seemed limited to being a US network that would air the program.
So NBC was a way for Gaumont to say, "Yes, we have worked with US networks before." Indeed, Entertainment Weekly reported that NBC was only paying $185,000 per episode to air Hannibal, a minuscule fee when most TV series command per-episode fees (known as "licensing fees") in the seven figures.
The conclusion here is simple: though NBC's airing of Hannibal helped Gaumont sell the show in other countries, NBC's involvement accounted for less and less of the show's financial picture with each passing year. So when NBC announced its plan to stop airing Hannibal, all Gaumont had to do was pivot to finding someone else to air the show.
Take a look at this chart, which details the relationship between networks and the shows they produce:
Javier Zarracina/Vox
Studios make shows, which they sell to networks. Networks collect ad revenue, but the studio collects almost every other form of profit. For more on this relationship, check out our explainer on how and why TV shows are canceled.
The balance of power has shifted toward the studios
In decades past, the TV network used to hold all the power, because it was the only distributor of television content. The studios that produced TV shows sold to a limited marketplace comprised of only a handful of content providers. Obviously, that's no longer the case, thanks to the rise of cable and streaming platforms like Netflix and Amazon.
So the balance of power has shifted toward the studios, and in many cases, the cancellation of a beloved show is less about a network ushering a show into the graveyard and more about it saying, "This doesn't work for us, but maybe it will work somewhere else." The impetus is ultimately on the studio to find that "somewhere else," something that is happening with increasing frequency.
A&E's Longmire has gone to Netflix, which also revived AMC's The Killing and Fox's long-dead Arrested Development. Yahoo Screen revived NBC's Community, and Hulu has renewed The Mindy Project after Fox canceled it. And Netflix picked up NBC's Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt before the network had aired a second of it. And those are just a few of the more prominent examples.

Amazon has streaming rights to the first three seasons of Hannibal. (NBC)
When NBC first announced that it would no longer be airing Hannibal, essentially every conversation about the show's future began with Amazon Prime — and though nobody has directly confirmed this, it would be very surprising if Gaumont's efforts weren't focused most extensively on the consumer giant's streaming video service.
Amazon has yet to pick up a series that's been canceled by another network, as its main competitors have done
Here's why: Amazon currently has exclusive streaming rights to Hannibal's first three seasons. And the company will retain those rights, even if potential future episodes debut on another streaming service entirely. It's not unheard of for two different streaming services to share the rights to a single show — Hulu owns the rights to the first five seasons of Community, for example, while Yahoo controls the sixth — but it's far from an ideal situation. That's why Amazon seemed a likely contender to renew Hannibal, while Netflix was almost certainly a no-go, as Fuller readily acknowledged.
However, it appears that neither Amazon nor Netflix is interested. As Fuller tweeted on July 6, 2015:

Amazon's decision isn't totally surprising. The company has yet to pick up a series that's been canceled by another network, something Netflix, Hulu, and Yahoo (its main competitors) have all done at one point or another. Amazon has purchased exclusive rights to British imports — like the fantastic comedy Catastrophe. But it has yet to, say, resurrect Arrested Development (as Netflix did) or save The Mindy Project (as Hulu did).

That's not to say Amazon will never continue production of a show that's already been canceled elsewhere. As I explained when Yahoo saved Community, picking up a beloved canceled show offers an instant credibility boost to a fledgling content provider. And Amazon Prime is still very much in Netflix's shadow. But it won't be starting its attempt to garner viewer goodwill with Hannibal.

Can you imagine if Mindy Lahiri and Hannibal Lecter were on the same streaming service? (Fox)
No potential Hannibal partner is as logical a fit as Amazon was, but there are so many players out there that we can't immediately discount anybody. (After all, lots of people thought it wouldn't make sense for Community to go anywhere but Hulu, and look how that turned out.)
What's more, all the data we have suggests Hannibal's tail is a long one, with viewers catching up with episodes after their first airing. That's not ideal for a broadcast network, which relies on live ad viewership, but it's perfect for a streaming site, which relies on subscription fees and having as large a library as possible.
So, with the caveat that this is all speculation on my part, here are three possible players:
Hulu: A longer shot for Hannibal than many fans might expect, given that Hulu is owned, in part, by NBC, which literally just canceled the show. But Hulu is doing its best to ditch its reputation as "the site you use to catch up on reruns" by diving headfirst into original programming. That's one of the reasons it acquired The Mindy Project earlier in 2015. Hannibal could be a good fit, too.
Crackle or the Playstation Network: Remember how I mentioned above that Sony is one of Hannibal's producers? I did that so I could later mention Crackle, Sony's woebegone streaming service that doesn't seem to be a very high priority for the company. Could Crackle afford Hannibal like Amazon and Hulu almost certainly could? It's doubtful, since the licensing fee is probably going to increase from what NBC was paying. (Remember: the overseas deals that have supported Hannibal's low price in the US were predicated on the show airing on NBC.) But stranger things have happened. Also: Sony's Playstation Network is venturing into original programming, as with the superpowered cop drama Powers, making Playstation another Sony-related option to consider.
A cable network to be named later: This seems like the longest shot, because cable networks are more dependent on ratings than streaming services are, and most have far more limited acquisitions budgets than streaming services do. But there are a bunch of cable channels that might not mind dealing with Hannibal's low ratings in return for some good critical buzz for a few years. This is purely speculation on my part, but you could make a good argument for A&E (which programs Bates Motel, another fictional serial killer prequel) or Sundance (which airs lots of outre, artsy programming).

Perhaps Hannibal will invite us all to an elegant dinner party, and that will be how the show continues. (NBC)
The good and bad thing about the new cancellation world is that cancellation increasingly isn't the end, until it's the end. And the nebulous rules that define when a show is "over" grow harder and harder to pin down. By and large, a show is officially dead when its cast's contracts expire — a fate that has actually already befallen Hannibal — but even then, a show might be revived years later in some form or another. And in Hannibal's case, it seems that provisions have already been made to deal with the expiration of cast contracts.
This is good, because it gives fans a reason to hope for the return canceled shows — and more hope with every year, as more and more content providers get into the streaming game. Take, for instance, Shudder, AMC's nascent streaming service dedicated entirely to horror. Is that a potential home for more Hannibal? We currently don't have any idea — and won't unless some sort of deal is made.
Shows have to end at some point, and as crude as the old process was, the network making that decision used to at least offer closure
But this is also bad, because it eliminates certainty and replaces it with a world of doubt. Yes, that canceled show you loved might one day come back from the dead. But it also might not come back, and even if it doesn't, there's always hope for a movie or something somewhere down the line, as happened with Veronica Mars. Stories have to end at some point, and as crude as the "old" process was, the network making that decision used to at least offer closure. Now, however, there's just a giant sea of stories in flux, stories that might be over or that might resume at some point, on a platform we haven't even imagined yet.
Each week, a handful of Vox's writers will chat about the latest episode of True Detective's second season. Before you dig into this latest round, check out our recap of this week's episode, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date.
Todd VanDerWerff, culture editor: It will surprise precisely no one when I say that, above all else, True Detective wants to explore the role of Men in Society. I capitalize the phrase to indicate the larger concepts the show feints toward, but I might as well use all caps when it comes to anything involving True Detective and men, so fascinated is the show by the role of masculinity in America. At times, it feels like the living embodiment of the Two and a Half Men theme song: "Men, men, men, men, manly men, men, men... ."
This is part of the reason the show was so easily able to enter the "great TV" conversation last year, and why the backlash against it seemed unusually pointed. For the most part, the best TV of this millennium has been obsessed with ideas of masculinity and manhood, and in recent years, we've been seeing a real pushback to this, as the great well The Sopranos tapped long ago runs dry.
And to be sure, many of the best shows on television are about anything but the nature and role of masculinity in society, which makes True Detective a kind of throwback to the shows of 10 years ago. Yet if season one was already interested in the topic, then season two has nearly jumped off the cliff with its obsessions, to the degree that Rachel McAdams's Ani is defined largely by her rejection of the more open and traditionally "feminine" New Age philosophy of her father and her embrace of the hardened, traditionally "masculine" life of the emotionally closed-off police officer. (Also, I don't know if you've heard, but she carries around knives.)
All three of True Detective's season two main men have, for lack of a better way to put it, "penis issues" — but with three completely different explanations
But it's the other three guys who are carrying the season's masculine weight, as you'd expect. And through them, creator Nic Pizzolatto both interrogates and celebrates masculine ideals. Let's look at how!
I opined on Twitter a few weeks ago that your feelings on this season of True Detective may stem from just how much you buy Colin Farrell as Ray Velcoro, and I still think this is sort of true. (For the record, I go back and forth, just as I do on the season as a whole.) Ray is the character who seems most like any character from season one (namely Woody Harrelson's Marty), but where Marty was good with a sly one-liner, Ray seems tortured by having to exist as a man in this world that doesn't share his ideals.
Season two is obsessed with fathers and sons, and conveniently Ray is both, even if he's not sure his son is biologically his, due to his wife's rape. And in his determination to be a good successor to whatever legacy his father left him and to leave a good legacy of his own for his own kid, he is slowly digging his own grave. The implication is clear: Being the kind of man who would have been commended in the past, the kind of man who takes care of his own (sometimes brutally), isn't a good fit for the modern world. And it's not immediately clear if the show thinks that's a good thing or a bad thing — or even if it has mixed emotions about the idea.
One thing to note, however, is that all three of True Detective's season two main men have, for lack of a better way to put it, "penis issues" — but with three completely different explanations. For Ray, the fact that his son might not be his, even though he and his ex-wife were trying for a child at the time of the boy's conception, hangs over him at all turns. And the kid is as little like his father as could possibly be, heavily suggesting that Ray is fighting some sort of losing battle against biology. On True Detective, nature always wins, no matter the nurture.
(Rough bets: This season ends with Ray learning that, yes, his son is his own. I would put good money on that. I would be less likely to put money on the idea of Ray getting Ani pregnant, but I think it will probably happen.)

Vince Vaughn's Frank is trying to walk a very noble, masculine path by taking his dark, dirty enterprise legitimate, but he's finding himself boxed in by a world where seemingly everybody owes him money, a world where nobody wants him to go legit, because it doesn't really have time for criminals who turn the corner. So Frank is caught between the soft, fat, and happy world of the upper class and the ruthless, criminal world he came out of.
When Frank issues his beatdown to a subordinate who's disappointed him, it's the clearest break we've seen so far with his otherwise polished surface. But it's also an indication, I think, of True Detective's position on being a capital-M Man: You can never wholly escape the savagery of your own soul, so you may as well give in to it now and again.
Frank's penis troubles stem from impotence. He wants to become a father, to have someone to pass his empire to, but he is physically unable to make it happen and will have to turn to science for help in that regard. For a moment, I was worried that his outburst of violence would "solve" this problem (as it would have in a lesser story), but it seems as if that was not the case.
HBO
HBO
Of the four main characters, season two has spent the least time with Taylor Kitsch's Paul, who is mostly playing out a very typical story of a deeply repressed gay man who's trying to fight back his own impulses. In a way, Paul's penis troubles are integral to his character journey. He appeared to have a problem with impotence in the premiere, but the next two episodes have made it all the more clear that he's gay and refuses to admit this to himself or others, even though he's slept with men before.
His "troubles," then, aren't really troubles at all. They're a big lie he's telling himself, and they point, in some ways, to True Detective's ultimate message about masculinity: It's a lie to insist that men have to be or act one way to still be men. Paul can be an ace highway patrol officer and a terrific military man and still be gay; his sexual orientation doesn't negate either of the former options. Similarly, Ray can open up a little and let in more of the world without necessarily ceasing to be a man who protects and guides his son.
The characters of True Detective, then, are trapped by the toxic masculinity they see all around them. Is that the most original idea in the world? Not really, but it seems to be the one this season is most interested in examining, and in some fleeting moments, it works. Here's hoping there are more of them.
Read the recap, and come back soon for more discussion.
Previous episode's discussion

On November 18, 2014, the 15th woman to accuse Bill Cosby of sexual assault came forward.
In an interview with Entertainment Tonight, former supermodel Janice Dickinson said that Cosby sexually assaulted her in 1982. She recounted a dinner they had in Lake Tahoe, where she said Cosby gave her a "pill, which she asked for because she was menstruating and had stomach pains."
"Before I woke up in the morning," she told ET, "the last thing I remember was Bill Cosby in a patchwork robe, dropping his robe and getting on top of me. And I remember a lot of pain."
This followed an essay published early that month in Hollywood Elsewhere, in which Joan Tarshis, a music industry publicist and journalist, claimed that the comedian drugged and raped her in 1969, when she was 19 years old, and chronicled the alleged encounter in graphic detail. "[A]s more and more of his rape victims have come forward, all telling similar stories, the time is right to join them," she wrote.
Cosby's attorney denied Tarshis's and other recently rehashed allegations, calling them "decade-old, discredited" claims. The fact that women are making the allegations, he said in a statement released to the Associated Press and posted online, "does not make them true."
But why are the "old" and "discredited" rape allegations suddenly in the spotlight? Why are "more and more" alleged victims coming forward in 2014?
It's not because Mark Whitaker's biography of Cosby is out this year. It's not because Bill Cosby 77, a comedy special that promises to offer the 77-year-old's humor related to "relationships, marriage, and children," was scheduled to be released on Netflix November 28, 2014 (before the streaming platform canceled the release). It's because of a quick riff comedian Hannibal Buress did during a show in Philadelphia:

The result is that people are suddenly paying close attention to what women have been saying about Cosby for years.
This focus, 10 years after rape allegations about Cosby first went public, raises questions about how we treat women who say they were sexually assaulted, and why so many of us ignored the allegations against "America's favorite dad" for so long.

Janice Dickinson's Entertainment Tonight interview was the 15th sexual assault allegation made against Cosby over many years.
That's a lot of stories, and they can be hard to keep track of. If you want to know who exactly said what, Gawker's Tom Scocca and Vulture's Max Giles have helpful guides.
But here are the basics on the stories that began surfacing about a decade ago: In a 2005 Today show interview, a woman named Tamara Green said Cosby had assaulted her in the 1970s. This was after another woman, Andrea Constand, filed a lawsuit in 2004 accusing Cosby of very similar offenses.
The women accuse him of drugging them with a laced drink or pills before sexually assaulting them
Constand's lawyers produced 11 more women who claimed Cosby had assaulted them, bringing the total number of accusers to 13. The suit was eventually settled, and as part of that agreement, the plaintiff agreed not to discuss her allegations publicly.
Taken together, the allegations paint a disturbing — and consistent — picture. The women accuse him of drugging them with a laced drink or pills and then sexually assaulting them. Cosby denies all the allegations.
Some of the women called as witnesses in Constand's case have spoken out since, sharing their allegations against Cosby with Philadelphia Magazine, People, the Daily Mail, and the Washington Post. None of them stand to gain anything from coming forward, as the statute of limitations has made it impossible for them to personally sue Cosby.
The story has reached a fever pitch because of a combination of factors, but it all started with a comedy routine. In October 2014, a clip of comedian Hannibal Buress brutally criticizing Cosby over the allegations in a standup routine went viral.
In an interview with Howard Stern, Buress said he had been doing the bit for months — not in response to any particular piece of recent news about the allegations against Cosby. "It's just a lot of stuff. I just read some stuff and researched. Anybody can get that information," he said.
"Only when a male comedian called Cosby a rapist did the accusation take hold"
About a week after the Buress clip made the rounds, the Daily Mail published an interview with a woman named Barbara Bowman, who said that Cosby, whom she called a "monster," had "drugged and raped" her in 1985, when she was 17. She told a similar account in a November 13, 2014, essay she wrote for the Washington Post. Bowman questioned why it took "30 years for people to believe my story" and noted, even more pointedly, that "only when a male comedian called Cosby a rapist did the accusation take hold."
In the midst of all this Cosby's team invited the public to create memes using the actor's face. The meme generator was quickly mocked as a "massive social media fail" for its poor timing, as Twitter users took advantage of the tool provided on his website to criticize Cosby over the newly resurfaced rape allegations.
Oh Cos! #Cosbymeme @BillCosby pic.twitter.com/ahFX7LFgVg
When Cosby was asked about the accusations in a November 15, 2014, interview on NPR's Weekend Edition, he remained silent, shaking his head in response to questions.
But Cosby, who has never been prosecuted, has done more in the past than just silently shake his head at the sexual assault allegations. Over the years, he has  — most often in statements through his lawyers, but sometimes in his own words — completely denied them.
After Tamara Green was interviewed on the Today show in 2005, Cosby's lawyer issued the following statement: "Miss Green's allegations are absolutely false. Mr. Cosby does not know the name Tamara Green or (maiden name) Tamara Lucier, and the incident she describes did not happen. The fact that she may have repeated this story to others is not corroboration."
When Newsweek ran an interview with Green in 2014, Cosby's representative said, "This is a 10-year-old, discredited accusation that proved to be nothing at the time, and is still nothing."
Cosby admitted to having sex with Constand, another accuser, but said it was consensual. His lawyer told CNN that her rape allegations were "utterly preposterous" and "plainly bizarre."
"Looking back on it, I realize that words and actions can be misinterpreted by another person, and unless you're a supreme being, you can't predict what another individual will do," Cosby told the National Enquirer in March 2005. But he hinted that Constand was trying to "exploit" him because of his celebrity status.
In November 2014, John P. Schmitt, a lawyer for Cosby, made the following statement, which he said would be the last on the topic:
"Over the past several weeks, decade-old, discredited allegations against Bill Cosby have resurfaced. The fact that they are being repeated does not make them true. Mr. Cosby does not intend to dignify these allegations with any comment. He would like to thank all his fans for the outpouring of support and assure them that, at age 77, he is doing his best work. There will be no further statement from Mr. Cosby or any of his representatives.
Constand's lawsuit against him settled out of court. That's the legal reason for the resolution of her claims.
But there are other, more complicated factors that explain why Cosby hasn't had to go before a court to defend himself. For one, at least one of his alleged victims said she held back because she didn't feel her claims would be taken seriously.
At least one of his alleged victims said she held back because she didn't feel her claims would be taken seriously
"As a teenager, I tried to convince myself I had imagined it. I even tried to rationalize it: Bill Cosby was going to make me a star, and this was part of the deal," Bowman wrote in her Washington Post piece. And in a CNN interview, she said she'd approached a lawyer in 1989 for a consultation on potential legal action against Cosby, but "he laughed me right out of the office."
At that point, Bowman said, she "just gave up" on seeking justice through the legal system.
Of course, 15 allegations of sexual assault against anyone — famous or not — would be disturbing.
But Cosby's public image seems to have colored the reaction to the allegations against him in a couple of ways.
The fact that the allegations against him are so shockingly incongruous with Cliff Huxtable, the wholesome, good-natured, beloved dad he played on The Cosby Show, could partly explain why there was so little attention paid to them for so long.
According to this theory, Americans simply weren't willing to hear information about sexual assault allegations that risked tarnishing our image of the man. (However, people have known for some time that Cosby wasn't a real-life Cliff Huxtable: married for 50 years to wife Camille, he's publicly admitted to infidelity).
He took to using his platform to admonish African Americans and broadly criticize black culture
A very different set of public impressions of Cosby also help to explain the recent attention to the allegations against him. In his post-Cosby Show years, he has used his platform to admonish African Americans and broadly criticize black culture. He wasn't widely hated for it, but he was no longer uniformly adored.
Critics said this commentary — characterized by his disgust for backward hats, sagging pants, traditionally African-American names, and what he saw as misplaced priorities — was irresponsible and out of touch, promoting dangerous ideas about black pathology that obscured the role of systemic racism in people's lives.
And it was this very sentiment about Cosby that inspired Buress's comedy bit —  the one that brought all of the allegations back into the public eye in October.
The younger comedian took aim at the hypocrisy behind what he called Cosby's "smuggest old black man public persona":
It's even worse because Bill Cosby has the fuckin' smuggest old black man public persona that I hate. He gets on TV, "Pull your pants up black people, I was on TV in the '80s! I can talk down to you because I had a successful sitcom!" Yeah, but you rape women, Bill Cosby, so turn the crazy down a couple notches. "I don't curse on stage!" But yeah you're a rapist, so... I'd take you saying lots of "motherfuckers" on Bill Cosby himself if you weren't a rapist.
Cosby's decades worth of performances also offer plenty of material to scrutinize for evidence of an inclination toward the type of conduct the 15 women accuse him of. And it turns out he did joke about spiking women's drinks on his 1969 LP, It's True! It's True! The bit, which was uncontroversial at the time, takes on more somber meaning in light of the allegations against him.

The new attention to the allegations against Cosby comes against the backdrop of a quickly evolving conversation about rape and rape culture.
Discussions around the allegations ... have highlighted a culture that can discourage women from coming forward
The FBI has broadened its definition of rape to ditch the word "forcible." A new California law that attracted national attention makes active consent the standard for sex on college campuses — meaning sex with someone who is too intoxicated to give their permission, like many of Cosby's accusers say they were, is characterized by schools as assault.
Those changing attitudes could be part of what's fueled widespread scorn toward Cosby: There's Buress's harsh bit on him, all of the mocking memes, and the two publications running his accuser's story back to back.
And Bowman's observation hangs over all of this: "Only when a male comedian called Cosby a rapist did the accusation take hold."

If nothing else, discussions around the accusations against Cosby — even if the discussions are a decade late — have highlighted a culture that can discourage women from coming forward with sexual assault allegations. And not just in cases where the alleged attacker is "America's favorite dad."
Additional women have come forward to accuse Cosby of sexual assault since mid-November 2014:
Renita Chaney Hill, who appeared with Cosby on the children's educational program Picture Pages, told KDKA in November 2014 that she now believes Cosby drugged and sexually assaulted her when she was a teenage aspiring actress in the 1980s. Hill said she had what she thought was a mentoring relationship with Cosby, and that he paid her college tuition. "I always thought it was odd that after I had this drink I would end up in my bed the next morning and I wouldn't remember anything," she said.
Former Playboy Playmate Victoria Valentino alleged in a Washington Post piece published in November 2014 that Cosby drugged and raped her in the 1970s.
In November 2014, model Jewel Allison told the New York Daily News that Cosby drugged and assaulted her in the 1980s.
Judy Huth filed a lawsuit on December 2, 2014, claiming that when she was 15 years old, Cosby took her to the Playboy Mansion and sexually molested her. Within days, Cosby filed his own lawsuit against her, saying her allegations were "meritless and unsupported," and claiming that she tried to blackmail him before filing the lawsuit.
At a December 3, 2014, press conference called by attorney Gloria Allred, Helen Hayes said Cosby stalked her "like a predator" and grabbed her breast in 1973. A woman who went only by the name "Chelan" said Cosby drugged and sexually assaulted her in Las Vegas in 1986. Beth Ferrier, one of the anonymous witnesses in the 2005 lawsuit against Cosby, said he drugged and assaulted her in the 1980s.
In a December 11, 2014, essay for Vanity Fair, former supermodel Beverly Johnson wrote  that the TV icon "drugged me with the intention of doing God knows what" in the 1980s.

Vulture continues to update a complete timeline of the growing list of allegations against Cosby, all of which he and his attorneys deny.
Consider this your official warning: If you haven't seen "Maybe Tomorrow," the third episode of True Detective's second season, I'm going to start spoiling it in the very next paragraph. Look away! Look away!
The resolution to last week's big True Detective cliffhanger is total, utter bullshit.
It's so intimately tied to most of the reasons that "Maybe Tomorrow" is still the season's most satisfying episode to date that I can almost understand why Ray Velcoro has lived. But then I flip it around again and realize that his survival underlines just how wedded to convention the anthological miniseries format True Detective plays in really is.
I suppose you could say I'm conflicted. Let's break it down.
Ray pensively smokes a cigarette after narrowly averting death. Like you do.
HBO
Does it make logical sense? Sure. It turns out that Bird Head's shotgun was loaded with riot shells, which means Ray just has a hell of a stomachache instead of a more fatal injury. The development also creates the potential for the killer to be a member of law enforcement, which could make for a good story turn here or there.
Plus, there's an argument to be made that all of the time season two has spent on explaining Ray's dark backstory and various moral quandaries would have felt wasted if he had suddenly died. (Those making this argument ignore the possibility of Ray becoming a ghost detective.)
But the question isn't whether Ray's survival can be explained — clearly, it can. The question is whether his survival breaks the world the show has established, and I would argue that it kind of does.
True Detective's second season takes place in a Southern California, where some sort of massive criminal conspiracy has wrapped its tendrils around each and every facet of public and private life — but where our four protagonists (including a career criminal) don't seem especially aware of said conspiracy's existence until Ben Caspere's death sets them on a collision course with it. So really, all we know is that it's shadowy and vast but well-hidden, which almost certainly means it's willing to kill to protect its secrets. After all, we've seen what it did to Caspere.
Thus, the fact that Ray ends up surviving when Bird Head gets the drop on him violates everything we suspect to be true about the conspiracy, and leaves it seeming a lot clumsier. That makes it harder to fear the ultimate villains, whomever they may turn out to be.
Plus, on a purely logistical level, it throws the stakes completely out of whack. Now, the next time a character ends up in a life-threatening situation, we'll be prone to thinking they'll probably get out of it, because they're not yet starring in the season finale. A similar problem bedeviled (of all things) American Horror Story's third season, dubbed "Coven," where essentially every character who died came back to life in the very next episode. "Coven" was a mess, but it appeared to be intentionally trying to say something about the nature of dramatic stakes. Who knows what True Detective is trying to do.
Creepy afterlife bars for the win.
HBO
For starters, there's the scene that opens the episode, where a lip-syncing performer "sings" Conway Twitty's version of "The Rose" (the song was first made famous by Bette Midler). It's a straight-up homage to Twin Peaks, which also featured occasional musical performance sequences that were seemingly staged in a space between life and death, and it's kind of glorious.
As it happens, the scene takes place in a scuzzy bar that Ray (mentally) patronizes while he lies on the floor of Caspere's second home, recuperating from his injuries. Yes, technically, this is a dream, spurred by the song on the radio, but every image we see is meant to imply this is a sort of waystation en route to the afterlife. And how appropriate would it be for True Detective's afterlife to be a dive bar?
Bathed in glorious blues, with the redder lighting of the bar providing contrast, it's one of the most beautiful, audacious sequences True Detective has ever pulled off, full of the unfiltered weirdness the show does so well. I half wanted the entirety of "Maybe Tomorrow" to be set in that dive bar. (Then again, the parts of Twin Peaks where the surface of the show was peeled back to reveal its underlying mythos were always my favorites, too.)
Of course, Ray wakes up, and his life goes on. But the bizarre atmosphere of that dive bar acts like a kind of hangover for the remainder of the hour, leaving viewers in a state of fuzzy anticipation for something unexpected to pop up just around the corner.
It should be said that the rest of "Maybe Tomorrow" doesn't really deliver on that. For the most part, it's devoted to filling in more of the blanks episode two started coloring in, and it does so in a way that sometimes feels a little perfunctory. The foot chase that closes the episode, for instance, is exciting on a visceral level but also feels like it only exists because Nic Pizzolatto wanted a big closing sequence and the characters need to come close to catching one of the bad guys before falling just short.
And yet the reminders of the weirdness are still there, in every instance where it takes Ray a little while longer to struggle through something he would have handled easily enough  before he was shot, or in the unsettling moments when the characters realize how shaky the ground they're standing on has become. Ray being shot has hurt True Detective's more tangible stakes, but it's also upped the sense of unease, which is not nothing.
Even Frank isn't sure what to make of Ray's survival.
HBO
So far, the promise of True Detective — and American Horror Story and Fargo and their anthology ilk — has been the idea that "anything can happen." Since the actors are only signed on for one season at a time, the plotting can radically shake up the status quo, whether through big plot twists or characters being killed or what have you.
But in actual practice, this idea hasn't really worked out. All three shows have been hamstrung by conventionality at one turn or another, by an adherence to genre that prevents them from really altering their own status quos. Ray's survival is largely a repeat of Molly from Fargo surviving her encounter with the vicious Lorne Malvo in a snowstorm — a story point that does certain things for the plot but closes off the larger realm of possibilities of what can happen. (For the record, I ultimately came down on the side of Molly's survival being the right call, so I suspect I'll eventually do the same here.)
At the same time, however, True Detective is currently grappling with the fact that it's trapped in a format where detective stories struggle. In general, the detective story is helped by compression, by the way that events can be collapsed into each other to keep the plot momentum building. That's why the two most familiar cinematic versions of detective stories are the detective movie (which rarely runs much longer than two hours) and the case-of-the-week TV procedural (which typically wraps each mystery in the span of an hour). Both can tell compelling stories because they're working within set parameters.
In contrast, "case of the season" series are hindered by their relative freedom, because they have so much space to play with that compression largely becomes impossible. That means rolling the dice on individual characters (as, say, Fargo did) or a larger thematic point (as The Wire did), but these sorts of arcs can be tough to execute unless they're baked into the story from the first.
By resetting their stories every season, shows like True Detective and Fargo leave behind the greatest strength of the TV crime show — the familiarity of characters we've gotten to know — and immediately return to the greatest weakness of the format: coming up with a new crime story that will serve as a good spine for illuminating brand new characters and themes.
If True Detective had killed Ray, it could have found a way around this problem by genuinely suggesting nobody was safe. It didn't do so. There are certain advantages to that approach, to be sure, and Colin Farrell's performance seems invigorated by Ray's fictional brush with death. But season two has also closed off a bunch of potentially interesting stuff that could have come out of his demise. Oh well.
Lauren Katz will stop in to open the comments at 9 am Eastern, so you can leave your questions in advance of my arrival at noon. (And if you wanted to ask some questions about this week's truly stunning Halt and Catch Fire episode, I wouldn't say no.)
Previous episode
Each week, a handful of Vox's writers will chat about the latest episode of True Detective's second season. Before you dig into this latest round, check out our recap of this week's episode, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date.
Todd VanDerWerff: Outside of the question of Colin Farrell's mortality (or lack thereof), I haven't seen much discussion of True Detective this past week. To be fair, the question of whether Ray will live or die is a big one, so it's easy to see why it sucked up all of the oxygen.
But in weighing Ray's survival prospects, we've missed one other major point, which is that he was gunned down by a man wearing a bird head, and if there's one thing we should all remember from season one, it's that people who wear ceremonial animal masks are bad news. (As if you needed True Detective to tell you that!)
This, of course, got me to thinking, because spinning crazy theories out of TV shows is part of my job. What if the case that Ray, Ani, and Paul are investigating in season two is somehow tied to the one Rust and Marty were investigating in season one?
If the reveal is cool, I won't lie: It could be one of the best moments in television history
The idea isn't as far-fetched as it sounds (though, admittedly, it's still pretty far-fetched). At the end of True Detective's first season, plenty of viewers were upset that what appeared to be a massive criminal conspiracy boiled down to Rust and Marty capturing one guy and putting him behind bars. And the show acknowledged this, as the detectives finally, wearily, concluded that getting one guy was a better result than they might have hoped for.
But if the criminal conspiracy — which extended into the highest realms of power and also contained elements of weird, occult demon worship — was truly that massive, who's to say it was confined to Louisiana? Who's to say it isn't a franchise operation, a conspiracy that takes on aspects of the finest crime stories of whatever geographic locale it finds itself in, in the same way that individual Applebee's locations hang mementos of the local sports team on their walls?
The key factor of this potential story turn is that if Nic Pizzolatto has it up his sleeve, it's something he can only do once, so he's got to make the moment count. After we learn that season two and season one are actually investigating different aspects of the same epic crime, the show can't stuff that genie back into the bottle. But if the reveal is cool, I won't lie: It could be one of the best moments in television history.
Just the mere suggestion that these anthological miniseries (the term all the kids are using nowadays to describe shows that share a title but tell different stories with different characters in every season) occupy the same universe contains a weird power of its own. Ryan Murphy and company have dropped hints with each new edition of American Horror Story that the characters all live within the same universe (which is a universe I now want to move to), and one of the best parts of Fargo's first season was when viewers realized that the characters of the TV show were part of the same world as those of the film the show is based on.
What makes this approach work is that it retroactively adds the appearance of continuity to a format that doesn't really boast continuity. We know that Marty and Rust aren't going to turn up in future seasons of True Detective, just as we knew that Frances McDormand wasn't going to show up and save the day in Fargo's season one finale. But even the vague idea that those characters are out there allows the brain to start filling in gaps that don't necessarily exist.
And giving the imagination some room to roam is something this season of True Detective desperately needs. Season one was filled with speculation about the Yellow King and the identity of the killer and whether Rust was mentally stable. So far, season two has mostly resulted in arguments over a yes-no question regarding one character's survival. It's much, much less interesting, and the series now feels more prosaic for it.
Do I expect True Detective to actually connect its individual seasons? Not really. For one thing, doing so would be a huge logistical headache, especially if the show runs for seven or eight years. In order for the same central conspiracy to become a through line of each new story, the show's writers would have to come up with an internal consistency that'd be pretty hard to execute, even within a fictional universe. So I suspect True Detective will remain united by a mood and a philosophical bent and not much else.
But, man, it would be really cool if this happened, wouldn't it?
Read the recap, and come back soon for more discussion.
Previous entry
The hostile alien intruders in the film Independence Day caught the world by surprise, arriving like a well-coordinated swarm of locusts to wipe out humanity and take all our natural resources. It was only through grit, ingenuity, and overwhelming patriotism that America could figure out how to defeat the enemy and lead the world in a 4th of July counter offensive to bring the bastards down.
Marine pilot and wannabe astronaut Captain Steven Hiller (Will Smith) might have been the flashy star of the film, punching aliens in the face and delivering back-to-back one-liners. But in the end, it was the flannel-clad, environmentalist hipster hippie and American hero David Levinson (Jeff Goldblum) who really made victory possible.
David is a very '90s hippie, and the movie isn't always sure if it should play, for instance, his environmentalism as a joke. But he's also the smartest guy around. He was the one who realized that if we could just hack the alien mothership from the inside, we could finally score a direct hit with a nuke and end the invasion for good. And all it took was abandoning all of his principles!
The film makes clear that this plan wasn't easy for Levinson to endorse. He spent hours lambasting the President for using nuclear weapons over American soil, and pleaded that they not be deployed again. But David was able to set aside his deep partisanship and see the bigger picture. The world was being overrun, and the only way to save it was to accept — embrace, even — his deepest fears.
The version of this American classic with which we're all familiar ends with well-placed nukes, a fighter pilot President, and a Mac Powerbook 5300. But uploading a nasty virus to scramble the computers of our highly advanced adversaries wasn't the only plan that do-gooder Levinson had cooked up. David looked into the abyss during that last overnight drinking binge, and he saw many roads to victory — all paved with the corpses of his dearest causes.
The hippie causes America needs to renounce to defend itself from future alien invasions are:
"Maybe if we screw this planet up enough, they won't want it any more!"
Racking his brain as an MIT educated TV repairman, Levinson's true passion is in saving the environment from the sloppy, inconsiderate actions of the human race. He chides his father for using styrofoam cups, righteously pulls recyclable cans from the trash bins at work, and bikes his way around New York City.
Humanity's gotta do what humanity's gotta do to survive, and if that means trashing the planet, then so be it.
But after all that time harassing his fellow man for minor infractions against the Mother Earth, it only takes one night of drinking (and the threat of annihilation) for Levinson to realize humanity's gotta do what humanity's gotta do to survive, and if that means trashing the planet, then so be it.
Blowing up the alien mothership was all well and good at the time. But what guarantee do we have that there aren't more giant alien motherships out there just waiting for the right holiday to strike again? Luckily, completing humanity's crusade against nature was easier than expected. Total victory against the invaders meant city-sized shipwrecks outside of all the world's major cities. Massive scrap heaps, unidentifiable leakages, and probably a whole load of carbon emissions from those downed ships means Earth ain't what it used to be, and no one's going to take any interest in it again.

Nobody wants this gross planet.
"I could get used to this."
First of all, tar-filled smoke could have totally ruined the the fragile space-technology of the aliens,  and Dr. Okun made it clear that the aliens' bodies are just as frail (and presumably susceptible to carcinogens) as ours. Even if we couldn't come up with an
Smoking is badass and instills confidence in America's heroes.
effective way to weaponize tobacco smoke, cigars play a far more important role in humanity's salvation: they're cool.
Despite all efforts to prove the contrary, smoking is badass and instills confidence in America's heroes. Saving those stogies until the fat lady sang inspired confidence in the fighter pilots and tech nerds who delivered us from certain doom. We'll need that confidence if we are ever called to defend our corroded space rock again, so light up and strike a cool pose.
"You knew then!"
We could have been prepared! An alien scout ship crash landed in New Mexico, and through top secret government research we learned a great deal about the aliens and their technology. But because a squeamish American public and reactionaries like David could never appreciate the benefits of clandestine operations, our intelligence community was hamstrung and operating beyond the knowledge of even the President.
We won't make that mistake again. In the world of Independence Day, only one solution is clear: elevate the NSA to a cabinet-level agency. And give it spacecraft.
Elevate the NSA to a cabinet-level agency. And give it spacecraft.
It wasn't just Captain Hiller's swagger and the mind-opening inspiration of a good binge that led Levinson to his genius plan to defeat the aliens. Julius Levinson, David's father, hadn't spoken to God in years at the time of the crisis, something he confesses just before David comes up with his master plan. Yet later, he pulls together a group of refugees for a prayer session. Can we be sure David's plan was divinely inspired? No, but why risk it? Boom, prayer in schools. It's the only thing holding back the aliens. Well, that and the raw charisma of Bill Pullman at his finest.


There is no joy here, only truth. (Phil Edwards/Vox)
For a lot of TV crime dramas, "case of the week" is a dirty phrase. It's seen as the episodic necessity that makes sure every new installment has a close-ended story for the casual viewers who don't tune in for every hour.
Increasingly, in this age of streaming options and DVR playback, the "case of the week" seems like an anachronism, tied to an era when even the most diehard fans of a program would miss a handful of episodes each season. Open-and-shut stories were a good way to ease these viewers back in after missing an hour, as well as a great way to entice the curious. Even a show like The X-Files, one of TV's earliest experiments in heavy serialization, was 90 percent standalone episodes.
All told, there are good reasons for shows to use cases of the week, and Hannibal's third season is illustrating why it can be so dangerous to go without them. I'm really enjoying season three so far (if not quite as much as the first two seasons just yet), but I'll definitely buy into the growing fan frustration over its slow start. The fifth episode, "Contorno," concludes with a necessary, explosive confrontation between Jack and Hannibal — but it sure feels like it took forever to get there.
So here are a handful of reasons Hannibal might seem a little less adrift if it brought back its cases of the week.
Hannibal (Mads Mikkelsen) looks down upon his handiwork. Nice job, Hannibal.
NBC
Think about your worst nightmares. Nine times out of 10, those nightmares start in a logical, familiar setting — a classroom or your bedroom or your office. And then something begins to go wrong. Maybe it's something small, but it immediately begins to spiral, and you're soon ripped from the comfortable world you know and dropped into a different one where nothing is as it seems.
Hannibal has always been built atop nightmare logic. It's a series where, say, Will can set out in search of Hannibal's ancestral home and, instead, encounter a woman who's keeping a man in a cage at the serial killer's behest. And then the woman can kill the caged man and Will can turn him into an elaborate tableau of a butterfly, and those are all things we accept as being possible within the show's universe.
The case-of-the-week stories have often been used to lull the audience into a false sense of security that the show repeatedly shatters
But the show's nightmare logic is always, always, always tied, by the most tenuous of threads, to the emotional reality of its world. For the characters, the connection is in their bonds to each other (where Hannibal mostly remains on safe ground), but for the audience, it often stems from the show's roots as a crime procedural. The case-of-the-week stories have often been used to lull the audience into a sort of false sense of security that the show repeatedly shatters.
Granted, the cases of the week have grown less important to the show over time. In season two, they were often shunted to the extreme background. But they were always there, giving the series a very, very small link to something like our reality. Without them, it sometimes feels like Hannibal is very slowly drifting, zeppelin-like, through the sky.
Will (Hugh Dancy) and Chiyoh (Tao Okamoto) talk out their back-stories on board a train.
NBC
By and large, the main story of "Contorno," with Jack and Pazzi trying to ensnare Hannibal in Florence, works just fine. So does the story of Alana and the Vergers tracking the doctor via his spending habits. Yes, it's slightly implausible that nobody in Florence seemed to be on the lookout for this internationally renowned serial killer, but it's the sort of implausibility you have accept with in a show like this.
Where the episode doesn't work nearly as well is in the scenes with Will and Chiyoh on the train, which mostly serve as a long series of expositional infodumps intended to fill in more of Chiyoh's background and explain that Will is afraid he will turn into a killer like Hannibal if he doesn't catch or kill his would-be mentor.
When you try to stretch a case of the week too far, it reveals its seams
While that's all good information to have — particularly when it comes to Will — it also lacks bite. It's just two characters telling each other some things about themselves, ending with a sudden, abrupt scene where Chiyoh pushes Will off the train. (Though, okay, that was kind of cool.) As a result, it feels like Hannibal is moving slower than usual, as if this storyline doesn't have a real point.
And to a degree, it doesn't. The plots that work are successful because they involve the characters actually doing something to capture Hannibal. It's clear that Hannibal season three is trying to recast the hunt for Hannibal as an extended case of the week, contrasted with Hannibal's attempts to evade capture for the murders he's committed while in Italy.
But when you try to stretch a case of the week too far, it reveals its seams. That's definitely happening here, with the story seemingly stuck somewhere in the early second act, waiting for the climax. Maybe Jack fighting with Hannibal, then pushing him out a window, will prove to be the catalyst that pushes things forward.
Jack (Laurence Fishburne) and Pazzi (Fortunato Cerlino) are hot on the trail of Hannibal. Good. Somebody has to be.
NBC
What Hannibal has long understood — what all of the best case-of-the-week shows have long understood — is that the case of the week is just an excuse for a show to examine its character relationships in flux. The case isn't there to be solved; it's there to place pressures on various pairings and watch them twist and spin in the wind. On The X-Files, it didn't matter that Mulder and Scully were always going to see that monster slip through their fingers in the end. It mattered that trying to catch the monster would give them an excuse to argue about science versus pseudo-science for another week.

The same has traditionally been true of the cases on Hannibal. In season one, the cases charted the evolution of Will and Hannibal's relationship, even as Jack and Hannibal's relationship was crumbling. Being exposed to so much violence caused Will to fall apart, and Hannibal was there to sweep up the pieces (though he was helped along by some convenient encephalitis). Season two deepened these relationships, pushing them further and further.
The problem with season three, then, has been that the show's writers have forced the characters into new relationship permutations without really taking the time to establish the show's new characters. The stuff with Hannibal and Bedelia works, because we know Bedelia very well. The same goes for Alana hanging out with the Vergers. But it's hard to care about the state of Chiyoh's soul when we just met her two episodes ago. Ditto for Pazzi's death, which mostly seems to have happened on the show simply because it happened in the book.
The writers have forced the characters into new relationship permutations without really taking the time to get to establish the show's new characters
Without cases of the week to bind these relationships together, the characters often feel as if they're unmoored from the rest of the story. But Jack and Hannibal's fight seems designed to start bringing things together, so here's hoping the next few episodes will start collapsing everyone back toward each other.
As mentioned, I'm enjoying this season of Hannibal much more than some fans, and I appreciate the show's attempts to experiment. I have every faith in the world that Hannibal will start to look a little more like the show we came to know and love in just a few weeks' time (and if you doubt me, all you need to do is look at the upcoming episode titles).
But this has definitely been one of the more trying periods in the show's run. Exploring who the characters are in the absence of the things that define them has certainly been interesting, but it has yet to be as satisfying as the show can be. We'll see if future episodes start to make this season make more sense.
I'll be on vacation next week, so there will be no Hannibal write-up. In the meantime, enjoy our complete coverage of the show.
There are still two more superhero movies (Ant-Man, Fantastic Four) for viewers to plow through dutifully this summer, but that hasn't stopped the forces at Warner Bros. from teasing Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice.  On Thursday, Entertainment Weekly published the first official images from the film. Most of them seem to be stills related to the trailer. But two images aren't.
The first features Wonder Woman (Gal Gadot) as her civilian identity Diana Prince. Prince is apparently a society woman, who looks very, very rich — the kind of rich that would grab Bruce Wayne's (Ben Affleck) attention:
The second photo is of Lex Luthor (Jesse Eisenberg) just chilling out. He looks more hipster than megalomanic and is sporting one ratty weave:
For the entire set of photos, head on over to Entertainment Weekly.
For the next several days, several of Vox's writers will discuss the third season of Orange Is the New Black. Before you dig into the latest round, check out our review of the full season, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date.
Lauren Katz, social media editor: After Litchfield Penitentiary goes private in Orange Is the New Black season three, the food at the prison gets much, much worse. But it's not long before the inmates, spurred on by Lori Petty's Lolly, find a way to avoid it: ask for a kosher meal.
"If you tell cafeteria workers you're Jewish, you'll get kosher meals, which is way better than prison food — and they can't question your religion, because it's illegal," Lolly explains to her fellow inmates.
She's right: prisoners are guaranteed religious freedom under the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act of 2000. But serving kosher meals costs Litchfield more money than serving non-kosher meals. In an attempt to save money, the prison brings in a corporate rabbi to weed out the fakers from the "sincerely Jewish," a murky concept that can be hard to define in any context.
When Litchfield's warden, Joe Caputo, questions the decision to second-guess people's religious beliefs, new Director of Human Activities Danny simply responds that it's a "legal gray area."
Inmates try their best to prove their Jewish roots to the rabbi by mentioning how much they love a bargain, announcing their distaste for "shrimps," and breaking out into a roaring rendition of "Hava Nagila," a traditional Israeli folk song. Cindy even borrows a few plotlines from Annie Hall and Yentl and mixes them into her life story, to which the rabbi replies:
"Miss Hayes, while I am heartened that you appreciate the works of Woody Allen and Barbara Streisand, I think you've confused culture Judaism with committed Jewish belief."
Vox reached out to Rabbi Shoshana Nyer, the director of lifelong learning at Suburban Temple – Kol Ami in Beachwood, Ohio, and a fan of Orange Is the New Black, for perspective on the process at Litchfield. Rabbi Nyer wrote in an email that she doesn't believe cultural Judaism and committed Jewish belief are mutually exclusive, but she does believe that one can sometimes exist without the other. This is something she feels is true for other religions as well, and suggests that what the corporate rabbi is trying to prove isn't possible.
"I think it can always be tricky when one person gets to decide another person's status in a group," she told me.

Ultimately, Litchfield uses the corporate rabbi's findings to compile a list of inmates who are allowed to receive kosher meals. When Cindy doesn't make the cut, she decides to convert to Judaism. And her reasoning gets to the core of something real.
Honestly, I think I found my people. I was raised in a church where I was told to believe and pray. And if I was bad I'd go to hell. If I was good I'd go to heaven. If I asked Jesus, he'd forgive me and that was that. And here y'all said ain't no hell, ain't sure about heaven, and if you do something wrong you've got to figure it out yourself. And as far as God is concerned, it's your job to keep asking questions and to keep learning and to keep arguing. It's like a verb. It's like, ... you do God. And that's a lot of work. But I think I'm in, at least as far as i can see it. I mean, maybe I'll learn more and say "fuck the whole thing," but I want to learn more and I think I gotta be in it to do that. You know, does that make sense? Shit, did I just talk myself out of it?
In her own words, Rabbi Nyer writes, Cindy captures the essence of Judaism.
"She speaks to the fact that we believe that one should be a good person, not because there is a reward after this life if you are, or out of a fear of punishment beyond this world if you are not, but because it is the right thing to do in this world," Nyer said. "And when we do make mistakes we can seek forgiveness directly from God, or the person we have hurt, and in fact we must do this, so that we can continue grow and become our best selves."
Rabbi Nyer notes that Cindy talks about how Judaism is not just about belief, but also about action.
"We can't simply study what it means to be a good, we must also put that learning to good use by becoming God's partners in helping to repair what is broken in our world."
Lastly, Rabbi Nyer points out that Cindy speaks to the fact that learning is a lifelong endeavor in Judaism.
"We are permitted and encouraged to keep questioning and struggling with what we find difficult," she says. "If he/she understands these major ideas and accepts them, then I would say he/she is ready to become Jewish."
It's surprisingly refreshing how much Cindy's storyline gets right about Judaism. Some have questioned whether or not Orange Is the New Black is anti-semitic or pondered whether the show has a "Jewish problem." Playing up stereotypes across many different groups — including different races, sexual orientations, and, in season three, religions — has always been a huge part of the show. Orange Is the New Black, Rabbi Nyer says, uses these stereotypes to make certain points, often with regard to tolerance.
"I think it all comes down to context."
Read our review of season three. Come back soon for more discussion.
Previous entry
The Terminator franchise has forgotten what made The Terminator and Terminator 2 so great.

Rating
If that wasn't made clear by 2003's Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines and then made even clearer by 2009's Terminator: Salvation, it's now been made crystalline by Terminator: Genisys, an attempted reboot of the entire franchise that makes a hash of the series' chronology in an attempt to keep everything within the same "universe." It's the worst Terminator movie yet, and this is a franchise with some bad, bad movies.
But what Genysis makes clearer than anything else is that nobody involved with these movies understands why people loved The Terminator in the first place. We didn't go see that movie to feel empowered, or to feel good about the future of humanity. We saw that movie to feel as if all hope was lost, even when the day was saved.
Video games can help us understand the way we think about genre and offer better ways to approach the question of how we should classify works of art.
Nintendo
The Terminator movies feature killer robots and time travel, and thus, Hollywood has slotted them into the science-fiction genre, when, really, these movies want to be horror films. To understand why requires a quick detour into questions of how we think about story genres.
Genres should be boiled down to emotional experiences, not mechanics or story elements
In the excellent YouTube series Extra Credits, video game designer, James Portnow often discusses game "genres," and how players tend to think of them as collections of mechanics. In Super Mario Bros., for example, Mario leaps around from floating platform to floating platform, avoiding enemies or bouncing on their heads. Games like Super Mario, then, are called "platformers." Meanwhile, a game like Halo involves stepping into the point-of-view of an unstoppable super-soldier and gunning down your enemies. Perhaps unsurprisingly, this genre is known as the "first-person shooter."
Portnow argues that we shouldn't reduce games to mechanics when attempting to classify them. Instead, we should boil them down to the emotional experiences we have when playing them, the needs they fulfill for us. Super Mario creates the feeling of being fast and free, of being able to jump anywhere or do anything. In Halo, we don't want to go around our enemies; we want to push right through them and feel powerful.
But what does this have to do with Terminator? Well, Portnow's approach to game genres offers a useful way to think about other artforms as well. Consider, for instance, the difference between Ghostbusters and The Conjuring. Both films center on elite bands of agents who take down paranormal forces from beyond. Yet the former is a comedy, while the latter is unquestionably a horror movie. Sure, one makes us laugh, and the other terrifies us. But there's something deeper at work.
At all times, Ghostbusters emphasizes the feeling of hanging out with your best friends and cracking wise, no matter how stressful things get. "Don't worry, we've got this," the movie argues, "because we're stronger together than apart." It's an emotional message that lots of buddy comedies employ. But The Conjuring, in contrast, suggests that mankind is essentially helpless in the face of the supernatural, that the best outcome we can hope for is to outsmart it for a little while.
Ultimately, what happened to the Terminator franchise is that everybody involved in it lost sight of its core genre. But that was easy to do, because Terminator's horror movie spine is deeply buried.
Terminator 2 managed a triumphant climax by adding elements of the family dramedy to its mix.
TriStar Pictures
Perhaps surprisingly, lots of popular blockbusters that seem to be part of one genre feature structures more closely associated with horror (Jurassic Park and Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom both qualify, to name two of Steven Spielberg's films alone). That's because horror is one of the easiest genres to incorporate into others.
Can you "win" over death? Briefly, but death, to paraphrase Arnold, will be back
Horror is often about feeling powerless. On some level, it's about the fact that every single living thing on this planet is unable to avoid death. And that's a spice that can be freely added to any other genre, even comedy. (The Ghostbusters might be funny, but they're not immortal.)
However, horror's closest genre cousins — sci-fi and fantasy — usually focus on empowerment, on how it feels to be the guy with the best spaceship or the woman with the wickedest spells. And since horror frequently intermingles with its closest genre cousins, the lines between them tend to blur.
The Terminator is a case in point. In many ways, it's a zombie movie, in that the emotional experience it most closely emulates is the feeling of being relentlessly pursued by an unstoppable force. The zombie movie is all about powerlessness in the face of death, as is The Terminator. Can you "win" over death? Briefly, but death, to paraphrase Arnold, will be back.
T2, the franchise's best film, messes with this idea a bit by way of its triumphant ending. T2 argues that while you might be powerless against death, there's technically a way around it — so long as you leave behind a legacy, often in the form of children. It's a message that writer-director James Cameron crafted by cannily adding elements of the family dramedy to the middle of his action-horror-sci-fi stew.
On some level, T2 is like a Frank Capra movie, leaving us with the emotional certainty that if we lead a good life, somebody, somewhere will remember us. And on another level, it's a paranoid thriller, one where nobody will listen to us, even if we know the truth.
Terminator: Genisys, now with more cheesy smiles.
Paramount
Where every Terminator sequel since T2 has screwed up is in their overemphasis of the series' action or sci-fi elements. Yes, there's an element of mounting horror to T3 (which concludes with one of the most wonderfully terrifying moments of the whole franchise), but the three most recent films really garble things by hinging so much on humanity's future war with the machines. Doing so transforms them into war films, which are basically the polar opposite of horror films, as they fulfill our emotional needs for honor and glory and camaraderie. This is particularly true of Salvation and Genisys.
The war with the machines also disrupts the series' careful horror balance. When there's just one or maybe two Terminators wandering around our modern-day world, they become a disruptive element. But when you fight robots every day, their presence becomes the status quo. The former allows for better scares, since the appearance of the Terminator is so unexpected; the latter simply results in numbing action.
Having a huge budget may have screwed things up, too
It's easy to understand why Hollywood skewed toward the war with the machines: all of the related time travel and amazing chase scenes made the Terminator franchise seem like the perfect sci-fi/action hybrid. But while those elements certainly appear, they run secondary to the original two films' sheer, pulse-pounding terror.
And here's the thing: having a huge budget might have screwed things up, too. Yes, T2 was the most expensive film of its day, but the original Terminator was relatively cheap to produce, and that spare quality is one of its greatest assets. What's more, arguably the best Terminator property since T2 was the underrated TV series The Sarah Connor Chronicles. Just check out this terrific sequence from the show:

That image of the FBI agents falling into the pool from a great height is a creative solution to a budgetary problem. A TV show doesn't have the shooting time to orchestrate a robot dispatching all of those agents. Instead, it must find a creative way around the problem, one that underlines the existential dread and paranoia that made Terminator and T2 so great.
But most of all, the most recent Terminator sequels want to give humanity some sort of "victory" over the machines without earning it, as Cameron did in T2 with his themes of family. In one sense, these movies are about how you can't ever stop what's coming, about how Skynet will always rise and flesh-and-blood people will always die. But Genisys, especially, undercuts that harsh reality with pointless cheering for humanity and needless empowerment, even though the story actively wants to excise those emotions. It abandons terror in favor of good feeling, and that makes the film a muddled mess.
Terminator: Genisys is in theaters everywhere. Maybe don't see it.
Let's face it: if you're someone who gets really excited about the meaning of the Fourth of July, it can be surprisingly hard to celebrate the holiday without getting frustrated by the current state of American politics.
You want to be proud of the fact that America's foremost national holiday isn't about a military victory or even about the forming of the American government, but about the birth of America as an idea. But it's easy to slip from pride in the American idea to fear that it's gone wrong, or is under attack.
YOU NEED SOMETHING THAT VALIDATES BOTH YOUR BELIEF IN AMERICA AND YOUR FRUSTRATION WITH IT
No one wants that. That way lie arguments at the family barbecue about the Supreme Court's decision on same-sex marriage. You need a Fourth of July that makes you feel unabashedly good about America.
You might be tempted to reach for The West Wing. Don't. The West Wing is designed to make you feel lousy about the current state of American politics. The series originated as an idealized alternative to the Clinton era: a "Wouldn't it be nice if our government were full of serious people who cared, as opposed to the jokers we have today?" counterfactual, extended over seven seasons.
What you need is something that validates both your belief in America and your frustration with it. And that means you need to watch 1776, a film that reminds you American institutions have always been dysfunctional, but that hasn't prevented them from doing some great things.
If zero of the words in the phrase "a musical about the writing and adoption of the Declaration of Independence" appeal to you even a tiny bit, 1776 is not going to win you over. But we've already been over this: you're the sort of person who gets excited about Aaron Sorkin dramas and "the idea of America." You will find a lot to love.
For one thing, it's funny. No one in 1776 comes off looking particularly heroic — but they get in some great zingers on each other. John Adams (played by William Daniels in the 1972 film), as the protagonist and the leader of the fight to get the Congress to "declare independency," gets some of the best ones. His first monologue starts, "I have come to the conclusion that one useless man is a disgrace, that two become a law firm, and that three or more become a Congress."

But Adams himself is kind of, well, a Masshole, and the rest of the characters have a lot of fun at his expense. (He's called "obnoxious and disliked" so often that the phrase is more likely to stick in your head than any of the actual tunes in the play.) Ben Franklin (Howard da Silva) is a dirty old man who quotes himself too much. Thomas Jefferson (Ken Howard) gets writer's block because he'd rather be sleeping with his hot wife. And in every case, another character is around to point this out. The movie takes some air out of the Founding Fathers by having them take the air out of each other.
The upshot is that watching 1776 validates our ambivalence about America — and makes that ambivalence seem patriotic in its own right. It's okay to be unsettled when Edward Rutledge of South Carolina (John Cullum in the film), one of the leading anti-independence members of Congress, makes the best point about slavery in the show: American prosperity in both North and South was built on the backs of African slave labor. It's okay to feel, by the time the Declaration is actually signed, that it's an imperfect, compromised, bureaucratically-revised document — and to be deeply proud of it nonetheless. And it's okay to both agree with John Adams that Congress is useless and feel that Adams should probably take it less seriously.

There's a very good reason 1776 can take itself lightly while genuine political dramas (in real life or in art) can't: the outcome of 1776 is a foregone conclusion, so it's not defined by narrative tension. When it's not clear whether your side will win a political battle, it gets extremely important that everyone do everything they can to help the fight — and nothing that might hurt. "Message discipline" can become overwhelmingly controlling, and snark is either seen as frivolous or as actively harmful to the cause. But there's snark running all the way through 1776, commenting on events as they're unfolding, and it doesn't induce any anxiety, because there's no doubt that the good guys are going to win.
If there's a community theater putting on 1776 in your area, go see it live. It's not easy to pull together a couple dozen men who can sing, so any theater group that's able to cast the show is probably good enough to do it justice. And a live production is more likely to keep the debate scenes snappy and spontaneous.
The movie is supposed to be a filmed replacement for the stage play, and it shows. (The less said about the cinematography, the better. Some scenes are like those 80's photo-session portraits where you see the subject from two angles at once.) It's long, and sometimes it drags.
You have my permission to skip two slow songs in the middle, if you like. You can fast-forward through the scene when the young soldier is talking to the Congressional staff about his experience in Lexington: "Momma, Look Sharp" should be a heartbreaking song, but the scene just doesn't work in the movie. And when John Adams imagines himself into his farm back home — like I said, don't ask me about the cinematography — you can skip the ensuing duet with Abigail Adams (Virginia Vestoff).
But don't fast-forward through the debate scenes, even when they start to get long. You might miss a cane fight (I'm serious), or at least a good zinger or two. Besides, it's a long weekend, you have the time, and there's no point in rushing through to the ending anyway. You already know where this is going. With 1776, getting there isn't half the fun — it's all the fun.
Don't ask Phil Grucci how many tons of fireworks he'll shoot off during his biggest shows.
"When I look at a painting, I don't wonder how many gallons of paint you used," he says. "From an artistic perspective, I shake my head at that."
Grucci is the President and CEO of the Long Island-headquartered Fireworks by Grucci, a company that's performed at seven presidential inaugurations, won multiple international fireworks competitions, and had shows everywhere from empty Colorado fields to hotel openings in Dubai. The family-owned business started in 1850, and since then it's expanded to worldwide productions and fireworks manufacturing.
You may think you know fireworks. You may even know about their chemistry. But how are fireworks shows actually designed? Grucci shared with me how his creative process works.
Fireworks over Portland, by Grucci
Pabo76 via CC
"The canvas we have is the sky," Phil Grucci says. "The beauty is in the vast palette we have to work with."
And the selections made from that palette can greatly affect the show. For example, if they use too much red in a production, "it gets so hot you start losing the richness of the color."
Another concern is humidity, which Grucci compares to an "organic hazer" because it makes smoke hang in the air. Even worse, it can make it harder to ignite the fireworks.
Light pollution is a factor, too. "In Las Vegas, colors don't register there as they would in Denver, Colorado." And blues and subtle golds won't pop as much, because they have to compete with natural light that drowns them out.
"If it's for a grand opening of a building or a bridge, I look at that being the stage," Grucci says. "I learn toward those programs that are the most difficult." While Grucci says he enjoys this type of challenge, there's also an appeal to an area free from light pollution that can provide a "black crisp," low humidity sky as its canvas.
Grucci's technology, like the flag seen above, allows them to create unique shows.
Grucci
If you want to start a large-scale show with one of Fireworks by Grucci's 400 pyro-technicians, you need to get in touch six to eight months ahead for planning and production.
"If there's an inspiration I may have," Grucci says, "we can go to our factory and make it. The more lead time, the more creative the project can be."
Costs include securing appropriate permits, coordinating a launch site for the fireworks, and, often, manufacturing the fireworks themselves, which Grucci does in its own factory.
He notes that Grucci makes its fireworks in the United States — which allows for quicker experimentation with new types of pyrotechnics, since they're can make and test them quickly. As a family-owned American business, it also provides a distinct marketing advantage for patriotic events (you don't perform at inaugurations if all your fireworks are all made in China).
That's paired with other technological advances that give the company new artistic tools and a marketing advantage. At Grucci, patented technology allows them to detonate a firework with precise enough timing to make images, like an American flag.
The fireworks at the 2005 inauguration. The Obama administration has skipped fireworks displays.
Travis Lindquist/Getty Images
A fireworks company can't do a trial run, but they come as close to sketching as they can. Grucci will typically storyboard out an entire show — occasionally it involves computer animation. From there, he can request the fireworks he'll need.
It all leads to "the ultimate peak"
A show starts with what Grucci calls a "Broadway type" opening with a strong beginning. "We premiere the strong bold shells and the soft delicate glittering effects. At the end, the peaks and valleys start to grow taller and taller."
In a modern show, music is key as well. Sometimes, the company commissions specially composed music, and other times they select from a vast library of licensed songs. Then, they match the fireworks and music together. "We might say, 'here's a moment when it needs to sound like a sunrise,'" Grucci says. "It needs to sound like a rainbow in music." In case you were worried, Grucci has made an app to help viewers listen along if they don't have a radio handy.
Of course, one of the most important parts of a great show is a big ending. Grucci says, "Ninety-nine percent of the performances will end at the ultimate peak."
That should be familiar to every fireworks fan, from the pros to the people sitting in the grass, looking up — a great show always has a big finish.
Sonia Manzano, known as "Maria" on Sesame Street, announced she is stepping down from her acting role on the children's television show after 44 years. The 15-time Emmy Award winner shared her plans at a conference on Monday:
After 45 years on Sesame Street, @SoniaMManzano will no longer appear on the next season. #alaac15 pic.twitter.com/Jiz7tn9dAI

In the late 1980s, Manzano wrote her own personal marriage and pregnancy into the show, remarking in a 2004 interview, "I was able to use things that really happened to me into scripts by breaking complex emotions like love, marriage, childbirth into something a 4-year old could understand."
In 1995, she joined First Lady Hillary Clinton in a discussion on the role of television in childhood development.

At the time, Manzano recalled being inspired by Sesame Street's inclusion of black and Latino actors before joining the show. "I have never been asked to speak with a Spanish accent," she told the audience. "Race relations is very difficult" to teach children, she explained, "because we're teaching two things at the same time: self-esteem and appreciation of others."
Manzino has won high praise for her true-to-life portrayal of Latino culture. Her description of American cultural views on race and ethnicity in a 1993 interview can be applied to 22 years later:
"It has always intrigued me how surprised other people are when they see white, black and brown people all belonging to the same Latino family," she said. "They don't understand how we identify along cultural and not racial lines."
Her work has impressed even the most secretive parts of government, as documented in a profile of her work in a 1993 National Security Agency newsletter. But it is Manzano herself who has best captured the joy and inspiration driving her life's work. "When I was raised in the South Bronx as a little girl, I watched an awful lot of television, and it was a big influence on my life," she reflected in 2004, "I saw this black and white world, and I used to wonder where I would fit in this world that didn't seem to see me, so I think it's really interesting that I grew up to be sort of what I needed to see on television."

Can Velcoro possibly survive being shot at such close range by a man in bird hat?
Each week, a handful of Vox's writers will chat about the latest episode of True Detective's second season. Before you dig into this latest round, check out our recap of this week's episode, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date.
Christophe Haubursin: Just about all of the talk surrounding True Detective season two has focused on how it’s failing — and miserably so — to live up to season one. We’re just two episodes in, and the transition from spooky Southern gothic to sprawling California noir has been bogged down by mediocre writing and some really, really bizarre storytelling choices.
But Sunday’s "Night Finds You" ended with the series' biggest cliffhanger to date. While Ray Velcoro (Colin Farrell) is checking out murdered city manager Ben Caspere’s second home, he’s ambushed by a guy wearing a bird headdress, who guns down Velcoro with a shotgun. We see Velcoro squirm on the floor before the birdman shoots him a second time, point blank. Surprise!
We don’t know for sure whether our mustachioed LA cop is a goner. But True Detective's producers certainly want you to believe he is, which reveals a lack of smart execution on their part. There are subtle ways of suggesting that a character may or may not be alive, but a double-tap shotgun blast to the belly isn’t one of them.
It feels like writer Nic Pizzolatto and director Justin Lin have taken a cue from the Game of Thrones handbook and are trying to convince us that anyone on True Detective can die at any point. Considering how little we’ve seen of Velcoro, it’s hard to feel invested (especially since we know he's already drunkenly beat up both his son’s bully’s  dad and an unwitting journalist). Thus, the cliffhanger seems half-assed: If he’s dead, we don’t really care, and if he’s alive, then the scare didn’t mean anything.
True Detective isn’t totally alone in its attempt to end an episode with a big question mark — the recent Game of Thrones finale contained two pretty ambiguous major deaths. But the characters in danger were characters we cared about, who were part of ongoing plot lines. Trying to mimic that approach within the tight constraints of an eight-episode, closed-ended story is a tough sell.
True Detective rarely shows death on screen, and that's especially true with regard to the series' major characters. In season one, you could count the big onscreen deaths on one hand. The focus of the show was always less about the realities of its violence and more about the realities of its detectives’ personal lives; it was a cop story presented through marriage and fatherhood, addictions and downfall.
That’s what made it interesting: It preserved the mysteries of Carcosa, and grounded the show in a tangible personal tale. It was never about the danger Rust and Marty faced in their casework — it was about the danger they posed to themselves as they tackled said casework.
And for the most part, it was a good formula. Confrontation, when it did happen, felt very real: The shootout with Reggie LeDoux and the now-famous six-minute tracking shot through a housing project in turmoil were some of season one’s best moments. Most of the story happened in blistering, metered car conversations, so any action carried real weight. But in season two, True Detective clearly wants to set the stakes high from the get-go — and we’ll have to wait and see whether it can keep up the momentum.
Despite what Pizzolatto and Lin might want you to think, it’s unlikely that Farrell’s time on the show will have amounted to an extended cameo. He's been part of way too many scenes in True Detective's season two promotional trailers that haven’t yet happened on the show. Pizzolatto has spent way too much time building up Velcoro’s backstory to let the character fall flat like this. And Farrell is literally the first actor listed on every episode’s IMDB page.
Maybe Velcoro was wearing a bulletproof vest under that plaid-shirt-and-bolo-tie getup. The shot could have been a rock salt blast. Perhaps some black magic could bring him back to life or resurrect him as a ghost detective. Time is a flat circle, right?
That being said, killing him off could be a really bold plot decision. Granted, it wouldn’t hold the weight that a major character death probably should — but for a series that’s struggling to recreate the success of its brooding, bizarre first season, it'd certainly bring something really new and different to the table. At this point, that might be what True Detective needs.
Read the recap, and come back soon for more discussion.
Previous entry
Many people celebrated the Supreme Court's ruling legalizing same-sex marriage in all 50 states last week. But Beyoncé has now shown everyone up with a performance that has to be seen to be believed — even though she's a little late to the party:

Never Too Late #LoveWins ❤️
A video posted by Beyoncé (@beyonce) on Jul 1, 2015 at 10:35am PDT
Let's watch some fire-spinning.
In this clip from the Friday, July 3 episode of Hit Record on TV with Joseph Gordon-Levitt — which features a fire theme — actor Joseph Gordon-Levitt introduces footage of his late brother, Dan, whirling flame about the darkened sky like a spinning, one-man arsenal.
Look at that fire go.
Pivot
The clip also doubles as a pretty great example of what HitRECord does best, which is bring together people from all over the world to create gigantic collages of imagery and sound. This scene, in particular, features Joseph Gordon-Levitt on the drums (which he would play as his brother spun flame), before several other musicians join him virtually, and it unfolds as something reminiscent of a Kutiman video.

But the real highlight is Dan's fire-spinning. (You can watch Joseph talk about his brother here, in one of the season's early highlights.) The darkened background gives way to his torches, twisting through the air. The spinner leaps and races about. And at all times, onlookers' eyes are drawn to the jumping, jolting flame.
Humans have always been fascinated by fire, and in our popular mythology of ourselves, we began our march toward modernity when our oldest ancestors tamed this primal force. We may be many, many generations removed from the earliest humans, but we still maintain, on some level, their preoccupation with flame.
HitRECord on TV airs Fridays at 10 pm Eastern on Pivot.
To fully appreciate Magic Mike XXL, you must accept that its predecessor, Magic Mike,  was a fraudulent bait-and-switch. The 2012 Steven Soderbergh film was billed as a silly, Florida-set tale of good-looking male strippers (played by good-looking actors) flaunting butts carved from marble and poreless pecs, all of which ends in a cascade of dollar bills and G-strings. In actuality, though, the stripping became a garnish to the movie's heavier subject matter, which involved drug-dealing, the financial collapse, and a dour fear of growing old.
While Magic Mike made for a fine drama, it betrayed the basic understanding between audience and stripper film, which is that people pay money to view a motion picture where muscled men grind on women, other men, and inanimate objects like poles, floors, and chairs for at least 50 percent of the runtime.
Thankfully, that isn't the case with the sequel.
Rating


Director Gregory Jacobs and screenwriter Reid Carolin's Magic Mike XXL is the cinematic inverse to Magic Mike, swapping out the drama for wild, blazing cuts at physical comedy and leaving behind the first film's dark aches for a friendly happiness.
Magic Mike XXL is not about life or death, nor is it about saving lives — it is about the great love between a small-business owner, Mike (Channing Tatum), and exotic dancing. Now a furniture designer who can't afford healthcare for his one employee, Mike finds a gaping hole in his spirit that can only be filled with the joy of taking his clothes off for a crowd. He's ready to give up everything he has for the chance to perform with his colleagues at a Myrtle Beach stripping convention, to indulge in one more night of thrusting his hips into women's faces and shaking his own face between their thighs. And there is nothing more gloriously American than sacrificing all you can to follow that one fleeting dream.
Stripping is the prime thrust of the film. There isn't a single moment where Magic Mike XXL strays too far from a dance sequence, and not once do any of the dance sequences fail to defy the laws of gravity or pantomime various sexual acts on women, water bottles, chairs, air, or ice cream.
The film also exhibits a brazen desire to be more of a mash-up between Bring It On and Homer's Odyssey than it does to be anything like what we know of Magic Mike. The result is a tremendously more enjoyable movie than the first, and one of the funniest movies of the year.

(Magic Mike XXL)
One element from the first film that Magic Mike XXL keeps is the idea that male strippers aren't selling sex. Though men like Big Dick Richie (Joe Manganiello), Ken (Matt Bomer), and Mike are physical specimens, their dancing is strangely more about silly or even earnest entertainment than it is an erotic experience. Male strippers are simply a conduit to happiness, rather than a source.
After rolling into a gas station while high on Molly, Richie comes to an epiphany about stripping and insists he wants to be something truer to his self. He's grown tired of donning and then removing a fireman's outfit to the beat of the same '80s hair song, over and over and over again. So the boys challenge him to get the bored female gas station attendant to smile. Richie tries all the tricks in his book: he thrusts his crotch, he rips open a bag of chips, he shakes his hair like one of Charlie's Angels, he takes off his shirt, and he bends from the hips, hoping to grab her attention and win that grin. But even after Richie's muscle show ends, she's still stoic.
"How much for the Cheetos and water?" he finally asks. That's when her face softens and breaks into the smirk he's been tasked with finding. And then this group, this Fellowship of the G-string, sets out on their next adventure, in search of their next happy customer.
The boys are traveling from South Florida to Myrtle Beach, South Carolina for a stripper gathering called "The Convention." Though "The Convention" seems like any regular convention, complete with registration and valet parking, it appears to be one big strip show. There are no panels, there is no continental breakfast, there's no agenda; it's just strip act after strip act.
The trip is their own personal Odyssey, an adventure that takes them to East Coast beaches, to Savannah mansions, and even to a gay bar. Along the way, they find old friends and meet new women (and a drag queen), all in hopes of finding themselves.
Mike is trying to regain a sense of purpose. Dallas (Matthew McConaughey) and Adam (Alex Pettyfer), both fixtures of the original movie, are no longer part of the group, and without the former's antics and the latter's sullen spirit, Mike's colleagues are more vocal and realized than they were in the past.
Underneath his suit of meat and muscles, Richie is a hopeless romantic who seeks a woman who can accommodate his manhood. Tobias (Gabriel Iglesias), Tito (Adam Rodriguez), and Tarzan (Kevin Nash) dream of lives that hopefully involve food trucks and art — the men are realizing that stripping cannot pay the bills forever.
Bomer, whom you might have recently seen in HBO's Emmy-winning film adaptation of The Normal Heart, turns in Magic Mike XXL's most winsome and disarming performance as Ken. The actor boasts a shaded vulnerability, leaning into the anxiousness surrounding Ken's post-stripper career and the hopefulness that he'll find some job, any job, once the last dollar hits the floor. Magic Mike XXL also allows Bomer to show off a dazzling voice alongside his sturdy, dance moves.
Meanwhile, Tatum's Mike sports a different attitude than he did in the first film. Gone are his attempts to convey soulfulness through his eyes, and he's no longer asked to sharply pout. He's still an amazing dancer, but this time around, Tatum is allowed to create someone who's more like his character in 21 Jump Street — a frat bro with a heart of gold encased in a sheath of sculpted brawn.
Mike's newfound attitude and the humor in each of the characters is key to Jacobs and Carolin's goal of producing a movie that may not be as emotionally sprawling as the first, but that's measured and sharpened to hit one note, and to hit that one note so well.
(Magic Mike XXL)
Though a lot of Magic Mike XXL is spent procuring laughs, it also wants to convey a loftier, more slyly feminist message. The women in this movie, from the random ones Mike grinds upon to divorcee Nancy Davidson (Andie Macdowell) to the fiery boss named Rome (Jada Pinkett-Smith), aren't groupies — they're in control of their sexuality, their finances, and their happiness.
Though there are a couple of points in the movie where Mike and his band of bros discuss "banging" (which happens off-screen), the women of Magic Mike XXL aren't powerless girlfriends. The off-screen sex feels more like a celebration than a conquest. These men aren't portrayed as saviors or hotly desired dream guys, they're just a form of entertainment. And the only reason they want to better their skills and improve their craft is to make more women happy — to give them something more genuine than the firemen, cowboys, cops, and whatever else the patriarchy has deemed "sexy."
In fact, Magic Mike XXL contains more instances in which men talk about broken hearts and striking out than instances in which women do the same. Richie, Mike, and Ken each have a story to share about missing out on true love. The closest female perspective we see involves Nancy's friend, who discusses her frustration with her husband not wanting to have sex with the lights on. Her admission isn't mopey, it's an assertion — a request to be appreciated.
This is all a departure from the first film, where the phrase, "How pregnant did you get that girl's mouth?" was once uncouthly muttered. Or where Mike was seen as some kind of glimmering catch; Magic Mike XXL features a slow-boil love interest named Zoe (Amber Heard), but her relationship with Mike never evolves beyond strong friendship. Figuring out how this love story ends isn't the point.
Ultimately, sex and sexuality are perhaps this movie's bait-and-switch. What initially seems like a charged romp featuring perfect, sexually-fulfilled male specimens is actually an exercise in levity and laughing at a bunch of attractive dudes as they clumsily grapple with masculinity. Like Tatum's Mike, Magic Mike XXL is incredibly earnest, surrendering itself to the throes of comedy and doing everything in its power to entertain you. And that's as seductive as any other film you'll see this summer.
Racked presents: The shirtless men of cinema in two minutes
For the next several days, several of Vox's writers will discuss the third season of Orange Is the New Black. Before you dig into the latest round, check out our review of the full season, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date.
Jen Trolio, deputy culture editor: Alex, I must respectfully disagree with your assertion that Sophia and Gloria are the most compelling characters of Orange Is the New Black's third season — in my mind, that distinction belongs to two other folks who've been a major force as of late, Tiffany "Pennsatucky" Doggett (Taryn Manning) and Joe Caputo (Nick Sandow). The former meth-head and the errant warden of Litchfield have come so, so far since we first met them in season one, and they're two of the best examples of how much this series excels at changing our perceptions of people we thought we knew.

By this point, we've seen some pretty radical flip-flops happen with several different characters; between the show's heavy use of flashbacks to reveal individual backstories and the way we see the owners of those individual backstories behave in the present day, Orange Is the New Black has been able to paint a uniquely elaborate picture of why so many of its characters are the way they are, so to speak.
In opting to tell several smaller stories instead of one big one, season three has benefited from having extra breathing room to fill in some blanks for characters whose backgrounds remained largely mysterious in seasons one and two, while also deepening our understanding of characters we've already spent plenty of time with. In the "new information" category, Leanne's Amish upbringing and subsequent predisposition to organized religion comes to mind, as does SoSo's overbearing mother and her eagerness to please. In the "old dogs, new tricks" camp, characters we used to love have become characters we hate and vice versa, or ended up somewhere in between.
Think back to how, when we first met Officer Healy in season one, he was an ally to Piper and a generally likable authority figure... until he turned on her due to her lesbian dalliances with Alex, looked the other way during her knockdown drag-out with Pennsatucky, and eventually grew angry and spiteful at work while suffering marital problems at home. His duality thus established, season three has frequently alternated between every facet of the character's complexity, illustrating how his desire to be loved has affected every aspect of his life.
Similarly, Piper's trajectory has oscillated quite a bit in season three: she was fairly annoying in the early episodes, shrank to somewhat of a non-entity for a while, and then leveled out as she kickstarted her used-panties business, began to fall for Stella (Ruby Rose), sabotaged her relationship with Alex, and ultimately took a big step in her transition toward hardened prison don when she filled Stella's cube with contraband to send the message that she is not to be messed with.
The point is, Orange Is the New Black has gotten damn good at fleshing out its characters over time, always piling on additional shades of gray. And nowhere has that been more apparent in season three than with Doggett and Caputo.
In Doggett's case, her season three arc has humanized her so much that it essentially feels too mean to keep calling her Pennsatucky, the same way that it no longer feels all that appropriate to refer to Uzo Aduba's Suzanne Warren as "Crazy Eyes."

The relationship between Officer Coates and Doggett was initially sweet, until it turned very, very sour. (Netflix)
Yes, Doggett was once a toothless, close-minded, Bible-thumper — but now that we've learned all about her troubled past and her history of sexual abuse, watched her open up to and grow close with Big Boo (Lea DeLaria), and cringed at her present-day rape by Officer Coates and heartbreaking response to it, we have a much more complete picture of what makes her tick.
Meanwhile, with regard to Caputo, we now have a much better idea of what it means to him to "do the right thing." Seeing the way his past sacrifices — namely, giving up an opportunity to tour with his band to help raise a child that wasn't his, and still finishing last, as nice guys so often do — have informed his current actions in the face of Litchfield's privatization has helped to explain and justify his headspace. It's difficult not to feel for the guy, even as you find yourself recoiling in disgust when he releases his pent-up energy and frustration by sleeping with Fig.
Orange Is the New Black has drawn plenty of criticism for using its flashbacks to absolve its characters of moral responsibility, to make them seem like innocent victims of circumstance who played little to no active role in bringing about the crummy, prison-centric situations that have befallen them. And in some cases, that's true.
But even still, in developing its characters the way it has, Orange Is the New Black has crafted an extremely rich world full of damaged and desperate — and above all, believable — human characters who will ultimately be the reason the show can evolve beyond its Piper-focused premise. The last few episodes of season three have done a whole lot of "big event" table-setting for season four, suggesting that once again, the show will be switching things up in terms of major plot points and the presence of a big bad. However, as long as it continues to build on its existing foundation by adding new layers to the people and settings we consider to be familiar, it'll be in good shape.
Read our review of season three. Come back soon for more discussion.
Jon Stewart's last appearance on The Daily Show might have even more f-bombs than usual.
According to Page Six, producers of the Comedy Central hit have been reaching out to conservative politicians and pundits whom Stewart has roasted over the years, in an effort to put together a dramatic exit for the comedian. An unnamed Page Six source says that the finale will be a chance for Stewart's former victims to "basically tell Jon to ‘f–k off.'"
So far no names have officially been released, but news outlets have suggested the lineup ought to include Donald Trump, Sarah Palin, and George W. Bush.
The last episode of The Daily Show will air on August 6.
Every week, a handful of Vox's writers will chat about the latest episode of True Detective's second season. Before you dig into the latest round, check out our recap of this week's episode, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date. Joining culture editor Todd VanDerWerff to weigh in on "Night Finds You" will be deputy culture editor Jen Trolio, and more.
Todd VanDerWerff: Enough about what's not working about True Detective season two. Let's talk about what's keeping me watching (and probably would be even if I weren't a professional TV watcher person).
If nothing else, series creator Nic Pizzolatto is a fine student of genre, which is fitting for a former literature professor. True Detective's first season fit squarely into the Southern gothic form, playing up the spookiness and surreal nature of its haunted bayou landscape. Season two has mostly left that behind in favor of something that feels more conventional but might actually be trickier to pull off: the California noir.
The California noir is a very specific subset of a very specific subset of the more general "detective fiction" genre. Noir itself tends to play around with various shades of gray, with worlds where the lines between law and disorder are not so clearly defined. These stories tend to star world-weary detectives who find themselves drawn into corruption and uncertainty by femme fatales.
The California noir, then, does all of the above, but sets it in California. And if that sounds like a pretty stupid qualifier for a subgenre, well, we also have "Florida noir" (which tends to contain a comedic element and is best exemplified by the work of authors like Carl Hiaasen and Elmore Leonard) and "rural noir" (think Winter's Bone or some episodes of Justified, also based on the writings of Leonard), so there you go. But what makes California noir work is that California itself is the perfect setting for a noir story. Generally, the California noir pulls back from that world shaded in gray to do something even bigger: explore humankind's hubris.
Think, for instance, of perhaps the most famous example of the California noir, the classic 1974 film Chinatown. In that film, directed by Roman Polanski and written by Robert Towne, private investigator Jake Gittes (played by Jack Nicholson) starts out trying to solve a fairly boring case and ends up examining the way that California slowly leeched its verdant farmlands dry of water in order to feed its thirsty coasts. (The film plays as somehow even more prescient in the wake of  the crippling drought my adopted home state is now facing.)
The same goes for movies as diverse as Who Framed Roger Rabbit — a goofy California noir that takes on the destruction of Los Angeles's streetcar system to make way for rampant freeways — and LA Confidential — which is about, among other things, the rise of the modern Hollywood studio system. The California noir tells these stories elliptically and symbolically (often with a woman standing in for the idea of the state itself), but in the end, everything comes back to the incredibly self-involved notion that human beings could possibly turn a desert into an oasis. The California noir is about the battle between our better natures and the raw, uncompromising natural world we still belong to.
Understanding the genre that True Detective's second season lives in will give us a better chance to evaluate it as a story unto itself
It's too early to say exactly what True Detective's second season might be up to in this regard — though the long-delayed construction of the state's high-speed rail system seems to be the political catalyst for the story. But many of the show's elements fit very neatly into the California noir template. Season two's first two episodes have introduced a widely scattered, seemingly disparate collection of elements that will likely all be tied together by season's end. (There is no way, for instance, that the Good People don't factor into the ultimate solution somehow.) Several world-weary detectives are caught between their own best impulses and a state that would rebuild nature in its own image. A career criminal is trying to repress his criminality in hopes of building a better life for future generations, that they might not be inherently corrupt. (There are lots of allusions to Chinatown in that description.)
Nothing I've described above is wildly original, and nothing I've described above has done anything to convince me that season two won't turn out to be an eight-hour gloss on several basic ideas that the terrific movie Inherent Vice laid out in two-and-a-half hours in 2014.
But I think understanding the genre that True Detective's second season lives in will give us a better chance to evaluate it as a story unto itself, instead of as a continuation of or sequel to season one, where it will inevitably come up wanting.
What do you all think? Did episode two grip you more than the premiere? And is Ray alive or dead or maybe both?
Read the recap, and come back throughout the week for more discussion.
Previous episode's discussion
Who curses the most in rap? It's the D-R-E.

<!--
window.pym || document.write( '<scr' + 'ipt src="http://apps.voxmedia.com/tools/javascripts/vendor/pym-cb3d02c4.js"></scr' + 'ipt>' );
// -->
<!--
var rappers_ranked_by_profanity = new pym.Parent( "rappers_ranked_by_profanity", "http://apps.voxmedia.com/tools/charts-public/?labels=Dr.%20Dre%2CA%24AP%20Rocky%2CMeek%20Mill%2CThe%20Notorious%20B.I.G.%2CLil%20Wayne%2CJ.%20Cole%2CSnoop%20Dogg%2C50%20Cent%2CGame%2CNicki%20Minaj&datasets=5.945%2C4.876%2C4.246%2C4.161%2C4.051%2C3.665%2C3.305%2C3.306%2C3.261%2C3.262&title=Rappers%2C%20ranked%20by%20profanity&description=%20%20%20&source=Rapalytics&link=http%3A%2F%2Frapalytics.com&type=bar&legend=Percent%20of%20lyrics%20that%20are%20profane", { xdomain: ".*.voxmedia.com" } );
// -->


The musically-minded data analysts at the blog Rapalytics analyzed more than 1,000 albums and 150 rappers for their lyrics, and they were able to create a profanity index. Though it's missing some rappers and lyrics, it serves as a good broad look at the state of cursing in rap.
And the state of rap is Dr. Dre, cursing a lot. Even when you break down the profanity by particular curse word, Apple employee Dr. Dre leads for a wide variety of individual swears, including "f*ck" (though for overall sexual terms, he loses out to the always-romantic L'il Wayne).
On the other end of the profanity spectrum is the family-friendly Will Smith, with only 14 profane words uttered in his career of more than 20,000 words. MC Hammer and Wyclef Jean, unsurprisingly, are the next cleanest.
But the most interesting change might be generational.

Profanity, charted (Rapalytics)
According to Rapalytics, 1995 and 1998 were the peak for profane rap, roughly coinciding with the "Gangsta rap" era.  Rapalytics charted that as well. Since then, rap has become significantly more mainstream, and mores around certain types of profanity, especially terms that are misogynistic or homophobic, have changed. All these trends have become more pronounced as younger rappers entered the industry.
The most notable changes include:
The Rapalytics ranker is far from perfect — to take just one example, it omits Odd Future and its many controversial, frequently profane members. It's also searching for particular words, so it might miss some of the more poetic profanity. But the data still reflects rap becoming more mainstream and negotiating which taboos it will — or won't — continue to violate.
Very, very mild spoilers for Inside Out follow.
An important part of the climax of Pixar's wonderful new film Inside Out involves the realization that all of our emotions are important, that feeling sad can be just as crucial as feeling happy, no matter what others might tell you.
But the movie also reveals that as we get older, our emotions begin to blend together into newer, more complicated feelings. Early in the film, Riley — the 11-year-old girl whose mind serves as Inside Out's primary setting — is largely defined by very primal feelings. She's either all joy or all sadness. She's all anger, or all fear, or all disgust.
However, once Riley moves from Minnesota to San Francisco, she discovers that her joyful memories of her old home are now tinged with sadness. That's an emotion adults know all too well, one called melancholy, and a big portion of Inside Out's final moments is taken up with both the reveal of this "hybrid" feeling and the assurance that experiencing it is a healthy, normal part of growing up.
But as we see in the last scene, more and more of Riley's memories are colored by two emotions at a time. That got us wondering what the many blends of Riley's five core emotions might look like. What happens when fear is combined with disgust? Or when anger is combined with joy?
Here's our best guess, in graphic form from Christophe Haubursin.
Christophe Haubursin/Vox
The White House used to be a wild place, teeming with everything from bears to alligators, even in the 20th century:

Presidential pets used to be quite the hassle. (Phil Edwards/Vox)
What to make of these unusual Presidential pets? Calvin Coolidge's menagerie might be the most instructive — it was one of the last White Houses to serve as home to many wild things. Coolidge received a wide range of pets as diplomatic gifts — including a wallaby — but he donated most of them to the National Zoo.
If you want to geek out on historic pets, the Presidential Pet Museum has an exhaustive and well-researched catalog of every one. It's a reminder that things have changed a lot.
Today, Bo's lucky if he finds a squirrel.
<!--
(function(d, s, id) {  var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];  if (d.getElementById(id)) return;  js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;  js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.3";  fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));
// -->
Statement on Relationship with NBC-
The network aired a new season of The Celebrity Apprentice in winter 2015, but it hadn't aired the program since 2013 before that. The show had cooled substantially from its early megahit days (when it was just The Apprentice), but it served as relatively cheap fill-in programming for the network, something that could be tossed on the air for a few weeks to draw a consistent, if low, ratings number.
NBC had picked up The Celebrity Apprentice for an eighth season back in February, but because of Trump's candidacy, he was not going to appear on camera in that eighth season. Why? Something usually called the "equal time" law.
Any subsequent seasons of Celebrity Apprentice would have aired with Trump as a bona fide presidential candidate, which would have bumped up against the rule, which guarantees that radio and TV stations that use the US broadcast bandwidth must provide equal time to all candidates in a particular political race.
It sure seemed like that would apply to The Celebrity Apprentice, but at the same time, a reality show is substantially different from most campaign opportunities, so it was hard to say just how the equal-time rule would be applied. Would all presidential candidates, no matter how minor, be given two hours weekly for six to eight weeks on the NBC network? Would they all be given reality shows?
NBC's solution was to relegate Trump to a role as producer only, which almost certainly would have worked — even if Trump's boardroom decisions remain the show's most easily marketable element.
But trying to figure out a way forward with a Trump-less Apprentice only would have been necessary if the show were a bigger hit. In its current state, it's much easier for the network to simply cut ties with Trump.
While the loss of a broadcast network outlet for the beauty pageants likely hurts more than The Celebrity Apprentice (which had turned into a headache for both its network and major star), Trump now gets to portray himself as a Hollywood pariah to the Republican conservative base.
Wrote Alyssa Rosenberg at the Washington Post in advance of NBC's decision:
If Trump can suggest that NBC, like Univision, is getting rid of him because of the positions he’s taking, there are all sorts of new political options available to him. He can argue that his comments about Latino immigrants are a form of brave truth-telling about both Mexican culture and American trade policy that are too hot for networks — especially one like Univision,which aims at a primarily Latino audience — to handle. Trump can also position himself as a conservative victim of Hollywood discrimination, someone who has been inside the machine and emerged with truths about the entertainment industry’s liberal bias that the world needs to hear.
Forget the Yellow King. Forget the time-jumping narrative structure. Forget, even, "Time is a flat circle."
What made True Detective's first season so instantly gripping for so many viewers were the scenes where Rust and Marty drove around the Louisiana countryside and shot the shit. Their relationship proved about the only consistent sounding board season one had.

For the first time, the second season of True Detective took off for me in its second episode, when it isolated Ray and Ani in a car together, to discuss their philosophies of life. The scene, which took place around two-thirds of the way through "Night Finds You," was a simple conversation piece, but it said so much about both characters (Ani's knives are part of her overall attempt to survive in a world dominated by men; Ray is upfront about his corruption, but only to a very limited point), as well as how season two is attempting to live up to season one.
By and large, I've tried to avoid comparing the second season of True Detective to its first, because the second season is clearly trying to be its own thing, and that strikes me as an admirable goal. But "Night Finds You" offers a look at how the show is grappling with that earlier season and especially with the criticisms of that season. As such, it's worth examining how creator Nic Pizzolatto has pivoted away from season one in some ways and embraced it in others.
Here are many folks' seven main criticisms about season one, coupled with the ways Pizzolatto has attempted to deal with them.
Is Rachel McAdams's Ani enough to make up for season one's underdeveloped women? It depends on who you ask.
HBO
This was by far the most persistent criticism of season one, and it was the centerpiece of Emily Nussbaum's famous takedown of the show in the New Yorker. Wrote Nussbaum:
To state the obvious: while the male detectives of True Detective are avenging women and children, and bro-bonding over "crazy pussy," every live woman they meet is paper-thin. Wives and sluts and daughters—none with any interior life.
The counter to this point was that the show was so focused on Rust and Marty that it didn't really develop any other characters, which was true. But even that argument ran straight into the buzzsaw of the idea that cable dramas had been so focused on the primacy of white men for so long that the approach had become tiresome, an idea that has only gained currency since season one left the air.
Director Justin Lin keeps cutting to Ani throughout, as if her face might tell the entire story of the season
Pizzolatto was clearly most stung by this criticism in post-season one interviews, and season two features a well-developed woman in Rachel McAdams's Ani Bezzerides. Yes, the "woman who's made herself hard to survive in a hard world" character type is a cliché, but "Night Finds You" shows that McAdams is able to add layers to that character we haven't seen before, and director Justin Lin keeps cutting to her throughout, as if her face might tell the entire story of the season. (And it might.)
Season two's other women are less impressively written. Abigail Spencer, as Ray's ex-wife, does her best to turn the character into anything other than a hectoring scold, but her efforts aren't enough to salvage her one scene. Kelly Reilly is basically around just to be a sounding board for Frank. And who knows what's up with Paul's mom? She seems dropped in to provide the season's obsession with Greek mythology with some sort of Oedipal complex around the edges (even though Paul seems to be gay).
Better or worse than season one: Push. We'll see how this plays out.
Fun with detective work in the True Detective crime-solving warehouse.
HBO
This was the season one complaint I found most compelling. At the end of the day, what appeared to be a massive criminal conspiracy with supernatural overtones was brought down because of ... a shade of paint? It was borderline plausible, sure, but it was also deeply unsatisfying.
It's much more conventional, but there's a reason detective stories are so prominent in fiction
And in this regard, season two is much better, at least so far. Yes, it's also much more conventional — in that the structure mostly involves the characters wandering Southern California and interviewing people with connections to the ongoing investigation — but there's a reason detective stories are so prominent in fiction. There's an irresistible momentum to them once they really get going, and their very structure always means there's something else ahead, some other suspect to interview.
Pizzolatto, at least in the season two episodes I've seen, seems to have really done his best to craft a case that makes some degree of logical sense, even if it involves a man who wears a bird head when he shoots you. And that's impressive.
Better or worse than season one: So far, much better!
Ray and Ani's conversation in the car is a good example of how to present exposition well in this sort of story.
HBO
As I said last week, Pizzolatto's greatest weakness as a writer is in his exposition. The show will sometimes stop dead in its tracks to make sure some crucial bit of information is filled in for us, as when one of Ani's superiors recites a quick history of Vinci. Is this information Ani needs to know and, therefore, information that we, by extension, also need to know? Sure. But it also brings everything to a screeching halt for a little while.

Season one handled the exposition so much better, simply by virtue of having much of it delivered by Woody Harrelson and Matthew McConaughey — and by having the season's time-hopping structure constantly call any of the story's established "facts" into question. Season two mostly lacks all of that.
Better or worse than season one: Slightly worse!
Episode two sees Frank delivering a monologue about beating a rat to death, in case you were wondering why your television seemed to sigh heavily with the weight of the world.
HBO
I don't know if Pizzolatto could write something that wasn't pretentious, and I'm not sure I'd even want him to try. (It might seem a little frightening, honestly.) Say what you will about the guy, but he usually displays a firm grasp of his own weaknesses in this regard, as well as a willingness to laugh at them with a winking line of dialogue.
There's no scene worst than this one in the three episodes I've watched
Still, True Detective is a series where an episode of television can begin with a rock-bottom awful monologue from Frank about how he was locked in a basement as a child and ended up beating a rat to death, which then pivots into his fear that he might have died down there and has been dead all this time, living in a world made of papier-mâché. There's no scene worse than this one in the three episodes of season two that I've watched, and it made me briefly fear the season would somehow get even more ridiculous after the premiere.
Fortunately, the rest of episode two proved me wrong, but it was a near thing.
Better or worse than season one: Push.
These two were super fun to watch in season one, though, no?
HBO
In some ways, this criticism of season one was more of a criticism of True Detective's fanbase than anything else. Said fanbase elevated the show to the pantheon of all-time dramas within about four episodes, and anyone who advised slight temperance was told, endlessly, about the series' evident greatness.
Of course, there were some fun, original elements in that first season. The part where Rust and Marty served as unreliable narrators was somewhat novel, and the filmmaking was frequently quite ambitious for a TV show. At its base, however, the story was yet another cop story, with all the good and ill that implies.
In season two, True Detective has more or less doubled down on this. The cop show architecture is more evident than ever before, but I'm not sure that's a bad thing at all. As stated, there's a momentum to this sort of structure that's fun to watch play out, and Colin Farrell and McAdams aren't bad as crime-solving partners.
Better or worse than season one: So far it's worse, but that might end up being a good thing. The show's premature praise in season one probably caused much of the backlash.
Need to know something about Frank's childhood? Frank is only too happy to tell you about it.
HBO
I repeat: "Night Finds You" opens with Frank delivering a monologue about beating a rat to death while he was locked in a cold, dark basement as a child. Though not as hilariously self-serious as the season two premiere, the episode still feels grim for the sake of being grim, which is rarely a good place for a TV show to be in.
Better or worse than season one: Worse. Harrelson had a way with a laugh line that Farrell, let's say, completely lacks.
Look out. Bird Head will get you one way or another.
HBO
To be fair, the person who most frequently levied this criticism against season one seemed to be Pizzolatto. In post-season interviews, he often seemed frustrated with the way fans glommed onto the little clues dropped about the seemingly all-powerful Yellow King and Carcosa. He had only meant for such things to add a bit of local flavor and color, see, and they weren't intended to be the point of the exercise.
Pizzolatto is really, really good at suggesting that something eerie and haunted is happening just off-camera
So season two is almost completely devoid of supernatural stuff, at least so far. What's happening is a pretty prosaic tale of botched land deals, corrupt cops, and gruesome murder. It's more artful, sure, but it's also nothing that couldn't provide the spine of an episode of NCIS, to be honest. Yes, some of the side characters (particularly Ani's father) still go in for some element of philosophy, but the center of the season is "normal," as dark tales of horrific crime go. There's little here that couldn't actually be happening right now, in some shadowy corner of the world.
But here's the flip side of this: Pizzolatto is really, really good at suggesting that something eerie and haunted is going on just off-camera. Indeed, it might be what he's best at. The Yellow King and Carcosa became such big parts of season one because he wove them so skillfully into the narrative and so neatly built into his story the idea of all-consuming, Lovecraftian madness. Without that, everything feels a little more like a typical cop drama.
At least, until Bird Head wanders out of the back room of the secret second home Ben Caspere was keeping in Hollywood, then shoots Ray. It's a brilliant, unsettling sequence, precisely because it seems like True Detective has left behind our reality and entered one just a few degrees left of it.
More of this, please. This show is so good when it indulges its creepy, horror-driven side.
Better or worse than season one: "Better," but that might end up being a bad thing.
My favorite visual gag in "Night Finds You" is the pair of consecutive scenes featuring appearances by Barack Obama and George W. Bush in the background. Whatever's going on in season two will not be constrained by politics as usual.
Caspere's psychiatrist appears to be a fan of The Audacity of Hope.
HBO
Meanwhile, Vinci's mayor appears to have been hanging out with George W. Bush at some point.
HBO
We will be opening the comments at 9 am Eastern for you to leave your questions. I'll be by to answer them, starting at noon. There's lots to talk about from this one!
Previous episode
Imagine if Breaking Bad's story had started several decades earlier. Imagine if the series had begun by showing you how Walter White lost his job, became a teacher, and slowly came to feel more and more frustrated by his life. Imagine if season one had concluded with Walter only just learning he had cancer and deciding to cook meth. How much worse would that have been?
One of the most important decisions every storyteller must make is when to enter the story, when to start the telling. You want a moment of dramatic impact, a moment when everything changes, or when a character can begin their journey. For Walter, that moment was his cancer diagnosis and subsequent decision to cook meth, both of which occurred fairly early in the Breaking Bad pilot. For Game of Thrones, it was one character pushing another out a window, which happened at the end of the pilot. For The Americans, it was Elizabeth Jennings' past rising up to remind her of her true allegiances to the Soviet Union, just as her husband seemed more enamored of American life than ever before.
And yet so many TV shows — especially on cable and, weirdly, especially on AMC — fail to deliver such a moment, choosing to start their stories so early that the dramatic impact is minimized. And in so doing, they tend to produce long, convoluted first seasons that the showrunners swear are necessary setup for what's to come, but viewers tune out of in droves.
Let's head inside the Synth store on Humans.
AMC
Watched in a vacuum, the first two episodes of AMC's latest series, the robot drama Humans, are more or less enjoyable near-future science-fiction. If you've seen any robot story ever, you'll know the basic beats the plot is going to hit, but there's a certain pleasure to watching a formula play out, and Humans contains some interesting twists here and there.

Rating
In particular, its robots (called "Synths") cannot actively harm human beings, so the ones who have gained sentience and do wish to harm certain humans must do their best to make it look like an accident, creating a series full of passive-aggressive androids. It's bizarrely, darkly hilarious in a way that really works for the show.
But we don't live in a world without other robot stories. There are so many of them that we know where Humans is headed almost instantly. Some Synths will turn against humanity. Some humans will treat Synths like their own personal slaves. Other humans will argue for the emancipation of artificial intelligences.
But the first two episodes of Humans are set so far before this eventuality that we in the audience are left way ahead of the characters on screen. That makes us feel smarter than them, and that tends to drive us away, because we're wondering when they're going to catch up. In some ways, the first two episodes of Humans feel like the first 20 minutes of the recent film Ex Machina, just stretched out to 80-some minutes. As such, the show doesn't just feel a little slow. It feels poorly motivated, as if it has no idea where it's going, specifically because we know exactly where it's headed.

This level of familiarity might be fine if Humans' characters were fascinating or if the story were full of wild twists and turns. But neither of those things is true. Most of Humans' characters are bores, and the story unfolds with the stately pacing of the typical cable drama. It's basically a fine show, and fans of the genre will probably find something to enjoy in it. But it's definitely a show that likely would have been improved by starting with its season two premiere.
This season of Halt and Catch Fire has been terrific fun, but nobody's watching.
AMC
For a great example of this, just look at two other AMC dramas: Halt and Catch Fire (which airs right after Humans) and Turn (which recently completed its second season).
Halt spent almost the entirety of its first season building to a bait-and-switch, promising that one character was a great genius before revealing that the true genius was actually another character. On the one hand, the show's patience with the audience was sort of thrilling; on the other, it chased viewers away, because there was nothing unique or exciting to latch onto. The second season has been a terrific, fun ride, but nobody's watching. That gamble on the audience's patience ultimately didn't pay off.

Turn, meanwhile, spent its whole first season slowly laying the foundation of the Culper Ring, George Washington's spy organization during the Revolutionary War. In fits and starts throughout season one, more and more of the Ring snapped into place, and by the season finale, everything was ready for a rip-roaring spy story. And, indeed, season two has been better in this regard. But that slow journey toward what the show had always promised was a bit of a turn-off.
So many recent AMC series are guilty of this. Even Better Call Saul took a handful of episodes to figure out exactly what story it was trying to tell. And there's nothing more detrimental to hooking an audience early than dithering about telling a story they already know the ending of.
Because of the rise of binge-watching and the popularity of shows like Game of Thrones, more and more producers are thinking of their shows as novels and, thus, thinking of their first few episodes as the first few chapters in a book. But we tend to toss aside novels that are slow to grip us, after all, and we also have a very firm sense of the novel as a finite object, one that will be over within a certain number of pages.
Audiences don't need to know everything to appreciate a good story. They just need to know the absolute basics.
We don't have that with TV. The best answer for how to grip audiences remains the same as it always has throughout TV history: make your pilot and subsequent episodes into riveting short films, then slowly weave your narrative tapestry. Think, for instance, of Mad Men, a show whose early episodes tell short stories set in its (fascinating) universe, before the show begins to pull all of those threads together. Or think of The Wire, which is careful to make sure every episode has a concrete goal for the characters to pursue, producing a feeling of momentum, no matter how slow-building it is.
Audiences don't need to know everything to appreciate a good story. They just need to know the absolute basics. We can learn more about Walter White's past over the course of the series; all we need to know for Breaking Bad's pilot to work is that he's frustrated, bitter, and very, very sick. Audiences are savvy. They can take it from there.
Humans debuts on AMC Sunday, June 28, at 9 pm Eastern.
For the next several days, several of Vox's writers will discuss the third season of Orange Is the New Black. Before you dig into the latest round, check out our review of the full season, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date.
Alex Abad-Santos, culture writer: After season three's slow start, I had been waiting for Orange Is the New Black to reach into my soul and make me care about where its story is headed. There's been plenty to not like lately — Piper (Taylor Schilling) and Alex (Laura Prepon) are exhausting, Red (Kate Mulgrew) has become a caricature, and Nicky (Natasha Lyonne), a character with one of the show's more powerful and compelling arcs, was sent away. But one storyline in particular has encouraged me to keep watching: the motherly rivalry between Sophia (Laverne Cox) and Gloria (Selenis Leyva).
The two share a brittle friendship carved out of Gloria's desperation. Gloria wants to see her son, Benny, but he doesn't have a reliable way to travel to Litchfield for visits. As a last resort, Gloria arranges for him to carpool to the prison with Sophia's wife and son. But things quickly go sour, as Sophia sees Benny as a bad influence on her "sweet boy."
The resulting tension puts the spotlight on two of Orange Is the New Black's stronger, flashier characters. And it took until this season and this story for me to see that they are more alike than I had realized.
Both Sophia and Gloria are parents who are committed to their families. Both are feeling the awfulness that is not being able to watch their kid(s) grow up. And both are coming to understand that they are bad parents.
Tone-wise, their situation marks a bit of a departure for Orange Is the New Black.
In its first two seasons, the series presented an overarching narrative about good women who ended up in tough situations and made do. Many of Litchfield's inmates wound up there through unfortunate series of events. As the show has unfurled, we've gotten the sense that most of these prisoners aren't that bad. And in season two, Vee and her open evilness made a lot of them seem "good" by comparison.
It's been a while since Orange Is the New Black has put the women of Litchfield in positions where they become their own worst enemies. Sophia and Gloria have taken very different approaches to teaching their sons about life and what it means to be a man, and neither woman fully comprehends the scope of her influence. The show makes clear that both of them, while powerful at Litchfield, are just tiny specks in their sons' lives, and that their absence from home is hurting their families.
Consequently, the conflict between Gloria and Sophia is part of a larger question this third season wants to address: How much do our parents shape who we are?  And further, does nurture trump nature?
From that depressing Mother's Day celebration in the season premiere, to Daya's (Dascha Polanco) dilemma in deciding whether to give her baby to Mendez's rich mother, to Ruiz's (Jessica Pimentel) boyfriend not letting their daughter visit Litchfield because the child will soon start to grasp that her mother is a felon, Orange Is the New Black has made a deliberate effort to illustrate the true impact of prison on motherhood and, ultimately, the importance of mothers in our lives.
And the show is at its best when it doesn't flinch in depicting the hurt and ugliness that motherhood can bear. Sophia's fear that her son will follow in her footsteps and wind up in prison is heartbreaking. So is Gloria's growing realization that she's failed to raise a good son. Their stories offer a visceral reminder that even when they leave Litchfield, there may not be anything or anyone — including the people they hold most dear — waiting for them on the other side.
Read our review of season three. Come back soon for more discussion.
Previous entry

The Super Mario Kart box. (Nintendo)
Drew Blumfield just woke up after an all-nighter, so he sounds a little drowsy. That makes it hard to remember he has the reaction time and skill of an Olympic athlete, except instead of hopping hurdles, he hits you with red shells.
The 31-year-old iPhone repairman and reseller is one of the top American players at Super Mario Kart for Super Nintendo, the game that's captured dorm rooms for decades since its release in 1992.
Many people have fond memories of being characters from the Mario universe, racing around a track or battling it out, hurling turtle shells at each other, and boosting their speed with the help of the coveted star. But not many have continued to play it day after day for decades like Blumfield has. Through international tournaments, he has proven he's one of the best Americans at Battle Mode and a top 10 Mario Kart overall player too.
So what does it take to be one of the best? And what kind of person can reach the top? Despite having stayed up late repairing and listing phones, Blumfield shared his tips for high-level players and terrible ones alike.
Super Mario Kart: Battle Mode.
Nintendo via YouTube
Battle Mode is Blumfield's expertise, and he has some advice for people who aren't yet at the professional level. (More advanced tricks are discussed in another section below.)
Super Mario Kart racing.
Nintendo
Here's how new to intermediate players can cross the finish line first in Race Mode.
Le Mans — site of the Mario Kart world championships.
Andrew Hone/Getty Images
Every year, Drew Blumfield flies to Le Mans, France, to compete in the World Super Mario Kart championships. If you didn't catch the connection, the world's best Mario Kart tournament is held in one of the most famous towns in the world for real-life car racing. That tournament is a key part of Blumfield's racing career, along with his preferred online tournament venue, SNESOT. The prize? Usually glory.
Against top players, newbies are helpless
The only way to really be competitive at Le Mans is through tips much more arcane than picking the right character or shell. "When top players play newbies," Blumfield says, "because we know all the advanced strategies, that means they're sort of helpless." He can explain different acceleration rates in European and American versions of the game, and he also knows key glitches.
Those strategies include glitch exploits like the New Boosting Technique, which uses quirks in the game's programming to allow sliding through mud. The key isn't so much that Blumfield knows these "advanced longboosting techniques" — they were discovered by an active online community and can be found with a little digging. But his advantage is that he can recall and execute these technically difficult maneuvers at just the right times.
Super Mario Kart's title screen.
Nintendo
It all began at the tail end of high school when he and his friends switched from the 1996 Mario Kart 64 game to the older Super Nintendo version from 1992. He started to get the competitive itch immediately. The classic game had an allure and an appeal to mastery that newer games couldn't match.
"It's the surprise factor..."
"With the newer games, they focus more on graphics," he says, "But back then, it was just a simple challenge. ... It's the surprise factor of the game that makes it so memorable, where it looks so easy and simple, but there's all these complex strategies."
During college, he logged around three hours a day. If he stayed up late to play, he'd hear the game's sounds when he was trying to fall asleep. It was close to an obsession. "There were times in class when I couldn't wait to get home and play the game," he says. "It was eating away at me."
He says he's past his peak because he doesn't play as much these days. His reduced intensity is due, in part, to increased focus on his work: repairing iPhones and reselling them online (he got into it by reselling Wii video games and later transitioned to phones). Learning the tips and tricks of iPhone repair online, the same way he learned about Mario Kart, helped him become an expert on the new technology. "The way I was passionate about Super Mario Kart, I got passionate about these phones," he says.
He does have other hobbies, but games are definitely a priority: from 2008 to 2010, for example, he fixated on Pokemon Pinball for Gameboy Color (setting a world record and making gameplay videos like this one, which has 69,000 views). But even though he's no longer all Mario Kart all the time, he'll still be heading to France every year to play — and he invites anyone to sign up and join him.
But the tournament is single elimination. So just make sure you're ready.
The first same-sex wedding on American television occurred not on Will & Grace or Ellen or one of the other milestone LGBTQ-themed sitcoms of the late 1990s. No, it occurred, somewhat quietly, in October 1991 on the three-season Fox sitcom Roc — and the episode containing that wedding is a surprisingly nuanced portrayal of the early days of a journey that culminated in the Supreme Court legalizing same-sex marriage throughout the country. (The Golden Girls had aired a gay "commitment ceremony" earlier in 1991, but the word marriage wasn't said.)
Even though Roc frequently had a political bent, it's still a little amazing to see the show tackle same-sex marriage so forthrightly and seriously in 1991. And in its portrayal, it's possible to see both how much American society has changed in the 24 years since the episode aired and how little things have actually shifted.
Near the end of the episode, Roc says he's not yet comfortable with his uncle being gay, but he's learning to be "comfortable with being uncomfortable," which is a big step for him. Those words are as good an encapsulation as any of the country's journey — or of any journey toward greater civil rights.
Roc was a star vehicle for the great stage actor Charles S. Dutton, who'd found some success in TV and film but had yet to really break through. He played a warm-hearted but struggling garbage collector in Baltimore, who was always trying to do the right thing by his family, represented by his wife, father, and younger brother.
The series is perhaps best known for its second season, in which every episode was presented live, rather than being taped, and for its frank look at the social issues impacting black Americans in the recession-ridden early '90s. There weren't many sitcoms even talking about this stuff in 1991, and there especially weren't sitcoms dealing with it from the perspective of those most affected by it, even with the huge success of the often very political Roseanne. Murphy Brown could talk about poverty all she wanted, but she was still a highly paid TV journalist. Roc actually had to live paycheck to paycheck.
Roc is learning to be "comfortable with being uncomfortable"
But because Roc was such a good guy, he was always trying to build up his family and his community, and that led directly to the series' eighth episode, "Can't Help Loving That Man," scripted by Jeffrey Duteil. In it, Roc's uncle, Russell (played by Richard Roundtree, a.k.a. Shaft himself), comes out to his family, then reveals that he's about to marry a man named Chris. This is almost too much for Roc's father and Russell's older brother, Andrew, to handle, but things take an even bigger turn when Chris shows up at Roc's house — and turns out to be white.
"Can't Help" is chock full of the sorts of easy gay jokes that typified a lot of '90s comedies featuring gay characters. At one point, Andrew insists that he didn't think black people could be gay, because they weren't descended from "sissy" Europeans. The joke is meant to be on his regressive attitudes, but also not really. Like Archie Bunker in All in the Family, everything Andrew says speaks for some portion of the audience that's just as uncomfortable with this idea as he is.
But if the burden of Russell's dignity is placed almost entirely on Russell himself, then Roundtree steps up ably to the occasion. When Andrew tells him this is just a phase, spurred by having married an "ugly woman," Russell says that, no, he's been gay his whole life and just lying to himself. And when Andrew refuses to have any part of Russell and Chris's wedding (held in Roc's living room, presumably so nobody had to build a new set), Russell deals with the problem with quiet dignity.
In its own way, this is a rough repeat of a storyline that American sitcoms played out with black characters over and over again throughout the 1960s and '70s. They were there to be as dignified as possible, while the prejudiced white people worked through their issues. What made the battle for gay rights so different was that anybody could be gay, so, similarly, anybody could be prejudiced.
That's what makes "Can't Help," all its clunky jokes and stereotypes aside, so amazingly reflective of America's journey. The characters don't make it all of the way to full acceptance of gay rights by the end of the episode. Instead, they simply make peace with the fact that they still love Russell, no matter the gender of the person he's marrying (or the color of that person's skin).
But the series tips its political hand very late in the episode when Roc (always intended to be the most sensible character) tells his father, "We ain't the only minority that's had it rough in his country." Roc positions the fight for gay rights as on a continuum with all other civil rights battles, and that was something few other elements of pop culture were dealing with at the time.
Roc positions the fight for gay rights as on a continuum with all other civil rights battles
But it also understands that any battle for civil rights isn't just a political war but a personal one — and that is true of no struggle more than the struggle for LGBTQ rights. The remarkable strides of LGBTQ rights in the US have been driven as much by quiet conversations and strong friendships as much as anything else. Being homophobic is simple when you don't know any gay people. It's far more complicated when your own brother or uncle is gay. That's when you start to get comfortable with being uncomfortable, and that's when real change can happen.
No matter what, Roc tells his father late in the episode, Russell is "still your brother." Roc didn't get everything right, but it did get this right. The ties of blood and friendship are far, far stronger than anything that could be thrown at them, and so long as that was true, growing support for the rights of LGBTQ Americans was inevitable.
Good Americans love dogs and war and, of course, dogs that have been to war. Bad Americans love none of these things. And if your child is a burgeoning bad American who ostensibly opposes the Afghanistan and Iraq wars, you'd best get that demon seed a dog — preferably one that has been to war — because it just might teach him to believe in America again.
Rating


That is the baseline premise for Max, a bizarre, beguiling "family" movie about an incredible canine war veteran with PTSD who's tethered to a petulant, pinch-faced tween named Justin (Josh Wiggins). Max (who's played by a dog named Carlos) is a Belgian Malinois — a breed of dog that looks somewhat like a German Shepard but appears to be more agile and nimble — and he and Justin are bound together by fate and smell. Justin's better-looking and better-liked brother Kyle (Robbie Amell) was Max's human partner in the Marines, and Justin presumably smells like his brother, so he is able to earn Max's trust after Kyle dies in combat. Together, Justin and Max navigate Justin's puberty, Max's PTSD, Justin's relationship with his grumpy father, Ray (Thomas Haden Church), various encounters with Taliban arms dealers, and the dealings of a Mexican drug cartel that operates in the shadows of a Texas suburb.
"We're just an ocean of pixels in a dog's eyes," Ray tells his wife, Pamela (Lauren Graham), during the film's jagged opening.
It's a clear invite for moviegoers to counter that dog movies, especially those involving  canines as adorable and acrobatic as Max, are actually much more glorious than Ray describes. Unfortunately, his words linger and ultimately resonate, as there are points when this strange film devolves into political incoherence. Instead of a heart-warming tale about a superhuman dog — which is really what everyone is here for — it becomes something that resembles a Red State fever dream, full of pro-war sentiment that will make you wish it would disintegrate into a bowl of pixel stew.
The movie's director and screenwriter, Boaz Yakin, has said that he wanted to make a film about military working dogs (MWDs), their role in the recent wars America has waged, and the impact of those wars on the dogs. And for about 15 percent of the film, that's what we see. Due to an incident in Kandahar that involves heavy gunfire and results in Kyle's death, Max is scared of fireworks and loud noises, and distrusts people. There's even a powerful (and manipulative) moment where Max howls at Kyle's casket, pawing helplessly for his late master.
But despite the multiple pieces of YouTube evidence that millions of people will watch anything involving dogs and war veterans, Yakin wasn't satisfied with Max being just a dog movie. And that's the film's biggest problem. Yakin could have created a touching tribute to MWDs, but he ultimately loses that thread in a blaze of fearmongering glory.
The tale that Yakin and fellow screenwriter Sheldon Lettich spin resembles the work of someone who was deeply upset by the tragic ending of American Sniper and reimagined the Bradley Cooper film in a world where the "good guys" win. Yakin isn't content to restrict his star to fighting the Taliban in Afghanistan, so he plunks an orphaned Max down near the Texas-Mexico border. In those suburban streets and bucolic forests, an unnamed Mexican drug cartel has bent the minds of the town's most respected individuals in order to obtain military-grade weapons smuggled in from raids on Taliban outposts — and somehow, this all connects back to Max.
The idea that a hyperviolent Mexican drug cartel needs weapons specifically from Afghanistan is a tremendous leap of logic, almost as tremendous as Lauren Graham's "Texan" accent. But it serves to illustrate a simple point: Max is the one that must save this Texas town from an influx of scary brown people, despite every adult male in this movie possessing a firearm.
Max then becomes a bizarrely political screed, with Yakin lacing in jabs at anyone — particularly liberals and non-Texans — who identifies as anti-war. The film is obsessed with the idea that "good" means following orders, and the unshakable belief that America has its citizens' best interest in mind. There is no middle ground, no place where a bad war and good soldiers can co-exist. War cynics like Justin become the film's ungrateful villains.
For example, in the first half of the movie, Justin is a caustic little gremlin clad in a "'Murica" T-shirt who bemoans Kyle and the Afghanistan War while playing video games. Justin's insolence is contrasted with his brother's heroics — the angry adolescent versus the virtuous soldier making Skype calls to his family from Kandahar.
"I'm a realist," the film's big bad (whose identity I won't spoil) says toward the end of the movie, while explaining why he thinks the wars in the Middle East are America's way of sending its blue-collar workers to fight on behalf of defense contracts.
That the film deliberately chooses to present its villain as a "realist" instead of an "opportunist" is telling. Coupled with Justin's initial anti-war sentiments (before Max teaches him to believe otherwise), it paints realism as the enemy, thereby making the good guys the ones who will trust the US government no matter what. Idealists are the heroes in this story, and there is no room for an idealist who believes the wars in the Middle East were a mistake.
Max, despite his Belgian roots, is a good American. He can sniff out the bad guys, but once he makes his home in Texas he's surrounded by hardheaded and sometimes evil "realists" who discredit or refuse to listen to him. Yakin's injection of politics into Max is exhausting, and by the end of the film, I was left feeling winded and ultimately wondering where cats fit into this world.
Audiences generally don't like to see dogs die in movies. And if a dog is going to die — whether it's in Marley and Me or All Dogs go to Heaven — many people want to know about it going in.
SPOILER ALERT:
Max does not die.
The film's creative team is fully aware of this apprehension, and frequently engages in dog death brinkmanship. As I mentioned above, there are multiple instances in which someone pulls a gun on Max, but being shot isn't the only threat he faces during the movie's 111 minutes. He's also bombed in Afghanistan, bitten by a Rottweiler, almost put to death twice (once by the pound and once by the Army), falls off the side of a rural Texas cliff, is threatened by a neighbor, and gets jammed into multiple cages along the way.
Max's death never feels too far away, which yields plenty of dramatic tension. But this tension also begins to feel manipulative by the second time someone threatens Max with a gun. The moments in which his life is threatened become cheap ways to snap you out of your daydream, to get you to care about what's happening on screen not because it's particularly important, but because it's supposed to be shocking.
Lost in this shuffle of bullets and narrow misses is Yakin's stated goal of telling a story about the great service that military dogs provide, how devoted they can be, and how violence affects them, too. I'm not sure where that film went, but the bizarre, violent mess I saw isn't it.
Every week, a handful of Vox's writers will discuss the latest episode of True Detective's second season. Before you dig into the latest round, check out our recap of this week's episode, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date. Joining culture editor Todd VanDerWerff will be deputy culture editor Jen Trolio, and foreign writer Zack Beauchamp.
Todd VanDerWerff: So many of the conversations surrounding this first week of True Detective's second season have revolved around questions of the show's quality. On the one hand, you have many viewers (like myself) who believe the season two premiere represents a new low for the series' quality. On the other, you have so many fans of the series — and I think I've heard from all of them, vocally and at some length — who argue that it's unfair to judge the series based on one episode.
Those fans are at least a little bit right. Judging a season of television based on one episode is a bad idea. I've seen the first three installments of True Detective season two, so I believe my opinion of it stands on slightly firmer ground, but there will be another five episodes to come after those — and they could all be of top-flight quality, or reveal that season two was always building toward something monumental.

Being a TV critic requires constantly reassessing one's opinions as shows progress and evolve; the profession is also an ongoing exercise in forecasting the future of a series after screening a limited number of episodes. There are more and more viewers out there who believe critics should wait to withhold judgment until a season has ended, and while I strongly disagree with that notion (in that I think there's still value in telling people whether an upcoming season has the potential to be any good), I can see where they're coming from.
But many of the negative reviews of True Detective season two aren't just talking about the show itself, nor are they focused solely on how season two compares to season one. No, a lot of them are more concerned with how many times we've been down this road before.
See, this era of serialized TV we're in is actually built atop a long line of crime series (in the form of Hill Street Blues) and lengthy murder mysteries where the payoff wasn't meant to be the point (in the form of Twin Peaks). But even more specifically, the last 10 years have yielded so, so, so many TV shows where a gruesome murder occurs in the first episode, and then in the weeks afterward, the cops on the beat solve the case. It has curdled into something so familiar and rote that I can hum it in my sleep.
These sorts of stories are very often saddled with strained, unsatisfying conclusions, so the excitement has to come from the way in which the story is told
Consider The Killing, AMC's now famously lambasted murder mystery, which debuted to really good reviews (including one from this critic) in 2011 before ultimately devolving into disaster. There are a ton of structural similarities between The Killing's pilot and True Detective's season two premiere. (Perhaps not coincidentally, True Detective creator Nic Pizzolatto worked on that first season of The Killing.) Several different characters are trying to locate a missing person whose body is only found at the end of the hour. There's a hardened female police officer with a troubled personal life. There's also a seemingly tangential political plot.
I'd say The Killing's pilot was stronger overall. (For one thing, the missing girl being sought by her parents was immediately more tense than a police officer investigating the disappearance of a city manager.) But it wasn't dramatically better, even though it received dramatically better reviews. What I would say TV critics have realized in the interim (in part because of The Killing) is that these sorts of stories are very often saddled with strained, unsatisfying conclusions, so the excitement has to come from the way in which the story is told. And True Detective's season two premiere doesn't suggest that the series will tell its "new" story in a particularly new way; instead, it suggests an old story told all over again.
Think back to True Detective's first season. That was a show where the storytelling approach was far more important than the actual plot. The concept of two guys remembering a case from two decades prior, their thoughts filtered through the uncertain haze of memory, was relatively new. And the extended scenes between the two of them made it clear that the characters were going to be the point of watching True Detective, far more than the resolution to the case. That setup was strong enough to withstand an unsatisfying payoff.
But season two just isn't there yet. Its characters and storytelling are all lifted from other sources. The setting is overly familiar. Even the filmmaking is less inspired. And that conjures up the ghosts of crime series past, of shows like The Killing. This is not to say that True Detective won't prove me wrong, then spike the ball in my face right after scoring a touchdown. But it is to say that the mountain it must climb to prove itself is — perhaps unfairly — very, very tall.
Read the recap. Come back soon for more discussion.
Previous entry
Every week, a handful of Vox's writers will discuss the latest episode of True Detective's second season. Before you dig into the latest round, check out our recap of this week's episode, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date. Joining culture editor Todd VanDerWerff will be deputy culture editor Jen Trolio, foreign writer Zack Beauchamp, and more.
Zack Beauchamp: Jen, I agree that True Detective's second season premiere wasn't truly awful television. Putting aside LOL-worthy moments like "this is my least favorite life," it at least didn't bore me.
Which is why it made me so nervous.
The problem with True Detective, historically, is that it's been a sham. The first season set up a grand, eerily occult mystery — and then utterly failed to resolve it. The extraordinary lead performances and direction amounted to lipstick exceedingly well applied to a pig.

Season two's premiere was objectively worse: none of the performances held a candle to what Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson achieved in season one, nor was Justin Lin's direction as artful and brooding as Cary Fukunaga's. Yet there was just enough there to make it seem like the episode — and, in turn, the season — wouldn't be a disaster. The weird symbolism surrounding the city manager's killing was just intriguing enough to make the murder mystery seem interesting, and Colin Farrell and Rachel McAdams make for entertainingly unhinged leads (let's not talk about Vince Vaughn or, bless my Tim Riggins fan's heart, Taylor Kitsch).
Allegedly, the next two episodes will strip out some of the total nutbattery in this one, which is a hopeful sign. But my real fear is that we're being strung along, again. Just like it did in season one, True Detective is setting up a seemingly ritual murder steeped in a supernatural mythology — if you missed all of the references to ancient Greek tales, you weren't paying attention. But that's exactly where True Detective screwed up last time: It treated the mystery and mythology as secondary, when they were in fact the key to the show. So my big concern is that we're being set up for heartbreak.
This lays the track for what I've started calling the "True Detective dilemma." On the one hand, you want — nay, need — the show to amp up the atmospheric weirdness that made season one so effective. The mystery and mythology are what make it True Detective and not Law and Order: Vinci. Bizarre and disturbing sexual imagery, creepy owl masks, and hints at looming conspiracies are True Detective's jam.
The more interesting the clues become, the more invested we'll get — but also the more worried we'll get that we're being set up for disappointment. It makes for terribly stressful TV viewing.
But the more the show leans into its inherent otherworldliness, the more the specter of disappointment rears its ugly head. Given the way season one ended, it's hard to hold out hope that any of the really intriguing clues are going be resolved. Once bitten, twice shy and all that.
That means that the more interesting the clues become, the more invested we'll get — but also the more worried that we're being set up for disappointment. It makes for terribly stressful TV viewing.
One way True Detective can deal with this is by delivering both a satisfying murder mystery and a conspiracy story. The bait-and-switch in the first season was that we believed the murder's resolution would also end up resolving the mythological conspiracy story, and it turned out that it didn't. This year, whatever the conspiracy is — and given how much has been made of the corruption in Vinci, you know there's a conspiracy here — must be tightly, integrally connected the murder.
The faster the show builds up the mystery and the conspiracy, the faster its listlessness will dissipate
This isn't just a problem for the eventual season two finale to solve. One of the premiere's big problems was that it lacked a plot: A disparate set of characters bumbled around their horrible lives until someone found the dead guy at a beach.
The faster the show builds up the mystery AND the conspiracy, the faster its listlessness will dissipate. Get all three detectives and Frank wrapped up in both the hunt for the killer and whatever conspiracy is behind it, and each of their little worlds will start bouncing off each other in new and interesting ways. Crafting a good murder-conspiracy starts early, not late.
So there's your viewing guide for episode two. Assess how good a job True Detective is doing setting up its overarching conspiracy, and you'll probably have a pretty good sense of whether this season will also end in unmitigated disaster.
Read the recap. Come back soon for more discussion.
Previous entry
It's a tough time to be a Hannibal fan. On Monday, NBC canceled the show with 10 episodes remaining in its third season (though all of these episodes will air), and it's not difficult to understand why. The show's ratings, already low, have ticked down toward the positively anemic. And season three's early episodes have been met with frustration by some fans, who wonder why the series' already slow pacing has become positively languorous.
There's hope on the horizon, however. Series creator and showrunner Bryan Fuller has been making the press rounds to discuss the prospect of Hannibal living on at another outlet. (Amazon Prime seems the most likely option, though there are a few others in the running.) And season three's fourth episode, "Aperitivo" — while not likely to squelch rumblings that the plot is moving too slowly — is a vintage hour of Hannibal, beautiful and stately and filled with poignant meaning (and dark, dark jokes).
In that spirit, let's take a look at 23 moments from "Aperitivo" that perfectly display why somebody — anybody! — needs to save this show.
The most striking element of "Aperitivo" is its structure. Each segment of the episode follows one person who has survived Hannibal Lecter's psychopathic tendencies, beginning with Mason Verger, then moving on to Will, Alana, and Jack. The final segment starts bringing the characters together, finally sending Will on his way to Italy, where he was hot on Hannibal's trail in the season's second episode.
Thus, "Aperitivo" is an episode that mostly deals with information we already know (except for the matter of Alana's survival) and could've easily struggled to take flight. Instead, the writers structured it as a collection of two-person scenes that are often deeply emotional and that fill in the psychological states of everybody on the show. It's a brilliant technique, and it allows for the season's richest episode so far.
Fuller has said he wants to earn the moment when Will and Hannibal finally see each other again. "Aperitivo" has gone a long way toward achieving that goal.
Mason Verger presents Face/Off.
NBC
Chilton took a bullet to the face and somehow survived. Mason Verger fed his face to some dogs at Hannibal's behest. Both men have good reason to want Dr. Lecter dead, and the sequence where they finally unveil their true selves is an electrifying way to open the episode.
Mason, who's recently rededicated himself to Christianity (or so he says; after all, he's still trying to find and kill Hannibal), uses this turn of phrase to describe Hannibal's current whereabouts. It's all too appropriate. This is what Satan tells God he's been up to in the biblical book of Job.
Season three keeps circling back to the bloody violence of the season two finale, one of the most shocking and brutal episodes of television ever. This is especially fitting, as the characters would not yet have moved on from such distressing events.
One reason Hannibal is different from so many other crime shows is that it truly digs into the psychological after-effects of witnessing all of that brutal, violent death. By returning to that terrible night over and over again, the third season is also exploring the weight of trauma, and the way it comes to be one of the few things the mind can think about in its wake.
One of the questions left over from that second episode was just who visited Will's hospital bed, if Abigail Hobbs was dead. The answer? Dr. Frederick Chilton, director of a mental hospital for the criminally insane, survivor of a gunshot, and the man once accused of Hannibal's crimes. (Lots of people have been accused of Hannibal's crimes.) The scene plays out as a haunting recreation of the Abigail scene in episode two. Will's mind hasn't been put back together quite right. So can we even trust him?
A half-shadowed, half-lit face is a classic way to suggest that someone is stuck in a moral quandary, caught between good and evil. And this episode is full of such faces, as well as some more literal half-faces.
Whether Mason ...
NBC
or Chilton ...
NBC
or Will ...
NBC
or Alana, everybody has a half-face.
NBC
So says Chilton, quoting James Branch Cabell. It's a nice example of the series' dry humor.
The fade nicely captures Will's state of mind.
NBC
The world drops out from behind Will, and he is left all alone. Few shows on TV would create moments like this one, which does nothing more than convey a psychological mood via visuals.
There's two Wills! Not again!
NBC
Will's vivid fantasy of a night where he sided with Hannibal rather than Jack, and then left his former boss bleeding out in order to run away with a serial killer, feels all too real.
Season three is obsessed with the nature of choice — of who gets to have it, and who lacks it. Will, who made the ultimate choice last season, is still haunted by his alternate self, who seems not so very far away at all.
This, ultimately, is the reason Will can't forgive himself. He'll never understand why he became so tangled up in Hannibal.
Did I mention this was a funny episode? Alana gets this line, referring to being pushed out of a window and now requiring a cane to walk, and it's terrifically, slyly hilarious.
Beautiful lighting; beautiful color scheme.
NBC
Alana doesn't stay in her wheelchair for very long, and she soon graduates to a cane. But there's something so perfect about her arrival in it that I had to highlight the scene.
So says Alana, and it's hard to argue that she's wrong. The series' consciously heightened dialogue is so poetic when it comes to describing the overall effect of emotions, and this line is a perfect example.
Alana is making things happen.
NBC
After last season, it seemed as if Mason and Margot Verger might exit the series for a while, but "Aperitivo" brings them back, with Mason plotting his ultimate revenge on Dr. Lecter. Alana's visit to their abode is one of the episode's few scenes replete with color, her red coat (and red lipstick!) and the dull blue sky contrasting with the dark deeds being discussed. In its own way, it's a visual wonder.
Cue awesome music cue.
NBC
At least, that's what the Kill Bill–style music cue over this shot would have you believe.
As Jack's blood drip, drip, drips from his body in a flashback, Hannibal composer Brian Reitzell (one of the show's not-so-secret weapons) turns those drips into a series of resonant percussion tones as the score, just like it always does, transitions into the dull chaos inside one of the characters' heads.
While Jack lay dying in Hannibal's pantry last season, he called upon his wife, Bella, who's long been one of the show's most poignant characters. The flashback to that night transitions neatly to a moment where he's lying in bed, recuperating, his wife's hand occupying the space where only his phone once sat. But there's a difference. This time, Jack swims toward life, while Bella plunges toward death.
Fuller is careful to ensure that Hannibal's grimness never becomes total and all-encompassing; in particular, Jack and Bella's relationship before her death was one of the series' finest assets. Her terminal cancer always granted their story a dark sense of fate, but seeing the two together one last time gave "Aperitivo" a great deal of its emotional heft.
And even in the midst of all of this tragedy and loss, there are good jokes: Chilton made sure to register the term "Hannibal the Cannibal," in case there's a quick buck to be made.
Jack is very briefly "visited" by a vision of Bella after her death, and he remembers how much he loved seeing her in white. But when she's revealed to be Alana, asking him what gown to bury Bella in, the episode's true theme hits home.
On Hannibal, ghosts don't exist to haunt the living; they exist as a reminder that the living themselves are already ghosts, walking through a world filled with unfinished business that will never be resolved.
Hannibal is all about proper etiquette.
NBC
Look, he's always had impeccable manners. (The poem Hannibal sends is by John Donne.)
Even with half his face missing, Mason is quite the comedian.
With the ghost of Abigail Hobbs to sing Christopher Cross covers.
NBC
And, okay, "Aperitivo" isn't completely taken up with poignant examinations of loss. We find out that Will is en route to Italy via sailboat — a lovely, romantic image, even if it doesn't really make any sense. See you next time, Will!
Previous episode
For the next several days, several of Vox's writers will discuss the third season of Orange Is the New Black. Before you dig into the latest round, check out our review of the full season, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date.
Todd VanDerWerff, culture editor: I generally agree that Netflix has no idea what to do in the midseason portions of its various shows' runs — it's a problem that bedeviled even poor Grace and Frankie, which I think is an issue because the middle of a story is the hardest portion to keep going, and Netflix offers its creators a lot of autonomy. Network notes are often terrible, but if the network giving the notes knows what it's doing, it can sharpen up a motivationless muddle right quick. For instance, I don't like everything on FX, but I always understand the intention behind its creative decisions. I can't really say that for Netflix.
However, I don't really think this particular problem is plaguing Orange Is the New Black's third season. If anything, its main problem is that it's trying to be too much like a season of "regular" TV. Of all of Netflix's drama showrunners, Jenji Kohan is the one who's most geared toward making satisfying episodes instead of epic seasons, and in terms of creating a fun binge-watch, she sort of shot herself in the foot with that in season three.

Dylan noted that Orange Is the New Black is juggling about half a dozen plot lines in various stages of completion, but it's easy to miss just how many of those plot lines last as little as one or two episodes, many of them spinning out of prior arcs. (Piper's underwear business, for instance, spins out of the larger prison privatization storyline.) This setup is far closer to the classical workplace drama model than anything else on Netflix — or streaming TV more generally. If you trace the history of the "lots of little stories that attempt to add up to a bigger one" structure, you can go all the way back to Hill Street Blues, the Hammurabi's Code of great TV drama.
What Kohan is doing here isn't all that remarkable. What she lacks — as Dylan astutely points out — is the singular, central thread that ties everything together and usually makes for a satisfying season arc. She's trying to do so with privatization and with season three's sometimes clumsily deployed themes of motherhood, faith, and exploitation. But when it comes to something to build a season around, a theme is a lot less viscerally satisfying than a major story thread, like a love triangle or a villain.
If anything, season three's main problem is that it's trying to be too much like a season of "regular" TV
And, honestly, "viscerally satisfying" is one of the key components of a good binge-watch. I wasn't a huge fan of the first two seasons of House of Cards, but I couldn't deny that it was at least a little fun to watch Frank Underwood's unrelenting march toward power. Once that went away in season three, the show collapsed — into a bunch of nonsensical, disconnected plots. Orange Is the New Black hasn't gotten that bad, by any means, but it's easy to see why the season three finale introduces a major new storyline that will turn season four into something else entirely. (Incidentally, upending her series' universe is also a Kohan trait; the third season of Weeds ended with the show's central setting burning to the ground.)
And while the events of Orange Is the New Black season three aren't viscerally satisfying, I suspect they will linger. Think about it this way: The most singularly unified season of Breaking Bad is its fourth, which focuses on the battle between Walter White and Gus Fring. But that season hasn't stuck with me nearly as long as the looser, more improvisational season three, which dispatches its major villains at its midpoint, spends much of its time contemplating who Walter is if he's not cooking meth, and features an entire episode where Walter and Jesse try to catch a fly.
Breaking Bad's third season is also one of the best seasons of television ever made (and one that lessened my enjoyment of everything that came after it, even if just a little bit). I'm not quite ready to send Orange Is the New Black's third season to the same pantheon — especially since it isn't as good as season one — but it's refreshing to see the series trying to break out of its tropes before they solidify.
Read our review of season three. Come back soon for more discussion.
Previous entry
WARNING: SPOILERS BELOW. THEY’RE NOT BIG SPOILERS, THOUGH.
Inside Out, the latest from Disney-Pixar, is an adventure into the great depths of the human mind. But it’s not set in the brain; it’s set in a fantasy world that represents the abstract structure of the mind by way of towering architecture and colorful landscaping. It’s an immensely clever concept, and makes for a funny and moving film. But it’s not how the mind actually works at all.
This is obviously true in the literal sense. Real 11-year-old girls don’t have a gleaming control center staffed by five key emotions — Anger, Disgust, Fear, Sadness, and Joy, with Joy as captain of the ship — managing their moods and behaviors like Inside Out’s protagonist, Riley, does; the brain doesn’t store memories in glowing orbs before consigning them to the bottom of the cavernous Subconscious, where they eventually disintegrate into wisps of gray smoke.
But the components of Riley’s mind don’t work well as metaphors for how real minds operate, either. Here are a few things about the mind that Inside Out gets, well — inside out.

Waaaaaay too orderly. (Pixar/Disney)
The luminous colorful orbs filling the halls of Riley’s mind are meant to represent her episodic memories — her recollections of specific past events in her life. The way Inside Out portrays it, recall of episodic memory works a lot like playing a video on your iPhone — including two-finger-swipe multi-touch dynamics. If we took this picture literally, you’d think that episodic memories were perfect audiovisual records, available for scrutiny and fine scrubbing whenever they’re needed.
But we know now that episodic memory recall is much, much messier than that. Even everyday recall of past episodes in your life is more like imperfect reconstruction than hi-def playback. In fact, the process is so creative as to become distorting: The more you recall a given memory, the less accurate it becomes. Just calling to mind something that happened to you in the past will change your memory of that event, just a little bit. Those revisions can accumulate over the course of many instances of recall. The more you try to remember, the less you truly remember.
The science of memory distortion is well developed. We know now about myriad terrifying ways in which memory can get messed up:
You can come to think you saw a person in one context when you actually saw her in another. In one notable case in history, a rail ticket agent identified a sailor in a lineup as the person who had physically assaulted him, when really that sailor was just a past customer.
The way you’re asked about what you remember can manipulate the features of the memory itself. If you’re asked to estimate how fast a car was going when it "smashed" into another, you’re likely to "recall" a higher speed than you would if you were asked how fast it was going when it "hit" another car.
Even just imagining what an experience would be like can implant an entirely false memory of that experience in you.
So it’s misleading, to say the least, to represent episodic memories as hi-def records (of things that actually happened) that are crystallized forevermore in discrete capsules. It’s visually stunning, and it makes for easy transportation of Riley’s core memories on the great journey Joy and Sadness take through the depths of her mind.

The parts where Sadness (Phyllis Smith) transforms memories? Those are pretty close to right. (Pixar/Disney)
Of course, there is one way in which memories change in Inside Out: They change their emotional valence, or how they make Riley feel. That’s what happens when Sadness touches Riley’s memories and turns them blue: she’s changing happy memories to sad ones. That’s an important point that the movie gets right, as Columbia psychologist Daphna Shohamy notes: Revisiting a memory in a new context can change your feelings about that past event in your life.
But then, of course, there’s the forgetting. Records don’t just vanish into thin air at the bottom of your subconscious. Sometimes forgetting is a matter of letting a memory record fall into disuse, so much so that the neural pathway to that record gets lost. The wiring of your brain can change so that even if there’s a solid episodic memory of some event hanging out somewhere in there, you can no longer reach it. Here’s a loose analogy: Imagine that you’ve stashed a secret file somewhere in the forest that can be reached by hiking down a trail. If you don’t go to collect that file for a long time, the thicket will take over that pathway, the trail melding indiscriminately into the forest, and you won’t be able to find your way to that file any more. (For the computer nerds: Forgetting can be like losing a pointer instead of scrambling what’s inscribed on the hardware. It’s more like Empty Trash than Secure Empty Trash.)
Some of these issues of confabulation and distortion may well be familiar from the hit podcast Serial. The science of memory plays a huge role in figuring out the truth when eyewitness accounts are at issue. If you want to learn more about memory, you can check out the work of the Schacter Memory Lab, led by Daniel Schacter, the William R. Kenan Jr. professor of psychology at Harvard University. Radiolab also produced a fascinating episode called "Memory and Forgetting" back in 2007.

Sorry, y'all. (Pixar/Disney)
The headquarters of Riley's head are staffed by her emotion committee: Joy, Sadness, Anger, Fear, and Disgust. They’re the ones in charge of her control panel. But there's a major character missing: Central Cognition. It's the task of Central Cognition, not the emotions, to survey all incoming perceptual data and determine which actions will promote overall well-being. Sometimes an emotional response can bypass or overpower the commands issuing from Central Cognition's command center, but emotions don't always drive our behavior.
One popular way of conceptualizing the relationship between the emotions and Central Cognition is known as the "dual-process model." According to this model, mental processes fall into one of two categories: System 1 or System 2. To simplify a bit: The actions of the emotion characters of Inside Out all count as System 1 processes, and the processes of Central Cognition are System 2 processes.
System 1 processes are fast, automatic, and happen at a level prior to conscious reflection. System 1 isn't actually a single system; it's composed of many small, largely autonomous local modules that operate in parallel and work away on very specific tasks. So in the land of System 1, you've got a lot of different characters taking in different bits of information and coming to their own conclusions. What Disgust does in Inside Out, for instance, is fast, automatic, and within the domain of System 1. When you recoil in disgust at something gross, that's not because you carefully assessed the elements that made that gross thing so gross. Because this processing occurs at an unconscious level, you might not even understand why that gross thing seems so disgusting.
System 2, on the other hand, is a one-man show starring Central Cognition. The workings of System 2 are slow and deliberate; they unfold within conscious experience. System 2 is centrally located in the prefrontal cortex, in working memory and executive control centers. When you find yourself making a complicated decision, weighing different factors, and considering different strategies, you're relying on System 2 reasoning.
When it comes to behavior production, which is in charge: System 1 or System 2? Well, neither. There’s no default hierarchy here — sometimes Central Cognition wins out, sometimes the emotions driving System 1 win out. Their outputs are always competing with one another. Sometimes, after making lots of decisions, Central Cognition can get tired, and it becomes more likely that your emotional responses will win out. Other times you don’t even bother using Central Cognition, even when it’s not tired — you just let System 1 drive.
What you end up doing is less the result of proclamations of some orderly headquarters and more the result of a massive, disorderly scrum. It's helpful to think of the competition for behavior production like an election. Different brain processes elect different candidates, and as the primaries move along, different coalitions form around the most electable candidates. Ultimately, the candidate with the most powerful backers wins the election and gets promoted.
You might think at the very least that there's collaboration between the System 1 processes, and that they form a unified front against System 2. But there's not just competition between System 1 and System 2 processes, there's also competition among the various System 1 processes. For instance, your fear response can compete against your anger response. You may really want to punch that bully in the face, but you're afraid of what the consequences will be (a punch in your face).
Disney/Pixar
What do you mean we're not a good model for how the mind works? (Pixar/Disney)
This points to something else that Inside Out gets wrong: a collaborative (if sometimes contentious) emotions committee with Joy as chairwoman. Sometimes your emotional responses can align behind a single response. But when this happens, it's not because the mastermind behind that response was in charge from the start.
So the battle between potential responses is not like a spunky conversation between players in a command room. It’s much more chaotic and competitive—yes, even more chaotic and competitive than when the emotions elbow each other out on the console.
And who’s in charge? Not Joy. In this competitive environment, Fear is often the most powerful combatant. Humans are much more motivated by the fear of loss than by the anticipation of gain. As the tennis star Jimmy Connors famously said, "I hate to lose more than I love to win." So maybe Fear should have had 33 seconds alone with Riley at the start of the film instead of Joy. Think about it: Does the wail of a newborn sound like unadulterated bliss, or the sheer terror of ejection into a potentially hostile world?
When Joy leaves headquarters, Anger, Fear, and Disgust try to fill her shoes, asking, "What would Joy do?" In reality, with Joy out of the picture, the other emotions would rejoice: less competition!
For the full story about dual-process theory, check out the Nobel prize-winning psychologist Daniel Kahneman’s book Thinking, Fast and Slow.

Joy (Amy Poehler) holds some core memories and chats with Bing Bong (Richard Kind) while Sadnes (Phyllis Smith) looks on. (Pixar/Disney)
According to Inside Out, we become who we are when we have formative experiences. Those formative experiences produce core memories that power key aspects of our personality. So Riley's memory of scoring her first hockey goal powers her love of the sport.
Though we may often point to specific moments in our lives as particularly important in shaping who we are, it's misleading to suggest that memory plays an important role in constructing our personality. Notice that those with amnesia don't necessarily become radically different people upon losing connection with large swaths of episodic memory. Their sense of humor remains the same, they still like the same kinds of movies — they just can't remember past episodes of experience.
In fact, events that happen in our lives have remarkably little impact on our personalities. Twin studies suggest that personality traits are mostly fixed by genetics. In one extraordinary case, two twins, separated at birth, met years later only to discover that they were remarkably similar. Sure, they had similar fashion taste and shared a dislike for math. But they also both enjoyed far more unique "pursuits," like sneezing when in the company of strangers and dipping their toast in coffee. Some traits, it seems, we’re destined to have. Take the same person, expose them to different environments and different experiences, and, more likely than not, they'll come out with roughly the same desires and traits.
You might have a hard time believing this, and for good reason. Humans are really great storytellers, and we're especially good at narrativizing our own lives. We have a tendency to look back on our lives and try to make sense of who we are with reference to our experiences. But there's evidence that this is more confabulation than fact. You may think you decided to become a biologist because of that one amazing biology teacher you had in seventh grade. But it’s more likely that you just had a knack for biology and that you’d have found a reason to become a biologist one way or another.

This part of the film checks out. Humans do exist and share depressing meals. (Pixar/Disney)
And this is leaving out other potential issues with the movie. Most obviously: There aren’t, in fact, homunculi in our heads powering our actions and reactions. There’s no part of the mind — from an emotion to a memory manager — that should properly be understood as a little person with a mind of its own. But the movie deserves suspension of disbelief on this point.
We also haven’t addressed the movie’s utter disregard for the physiological (or "James-Lange") theory of emotion, which states that our physiology — the actual physical stuff happening in our bodies — causes our experienced emotions, rather than the other way around. That theory has it that the falling of tears makes you sad, rather than sadness making you cry. The question of whether the James-Lange theory is true is highly controversial — for that matter, it’s controversial whether our subjective experiences cause anything at all.
Inside Out is a lot of fun, at points laugh-out-loud funny, and, in true Pixar fashion, very poignant at its conclusion. But it’s a poor reflection of what we know about the mind.
Antonia Peacocke and Jackson Kernion are PhD students in philosophy at the University of California Berkeley.
This week, Sony and Marvel announced the casting of Tom Holland as Peter Parker in their upcoming Spider-Man film. The announcement came days after Gawker's Sam Biddle unearthed a legal agreement between Sony and Marvel that stipulates which "character traits" Spider-Man can and can't have in Sony's films. And, suffice it to say, Tom Holland fit the narrow bill.
What Biddle found were two sets of limitations that Marvel has placed on Sony. The first deals with the character's moral guidelines and his sexuality:
(Sony/Marvel via Gawker)
The second deals with the character of Peter Parker; the agreement outlines very specific parameters for everything from Parker's race and sexuality to the details of his childhood:
(Sony/Marvel via Gawker)
These limitations are a bombshell because Marvel's licensing agreements with Sony and Fox have always been shrouded in secrecy (the company's agreement with Fox concerning its X-Men characters has been sealed). Thus, any new information about these deals can be extremely enlightening.
Biddle makes the case that the clauses about Spider-Man's and Peter Parker's race and sexuality are archaic (no argument from me here), and that they've prevented the Marvel Universe from growing more diverse:
It’s important to remember that Spider-Man, no matter how much we wish it weren’t the case, is a fictional character. There is no "real" Spider-Man, so it’s bogus to say that Spider-Man necessarily has to be anything, other than some kind of spider man, I guess.
Understandably, many people are upset by how narrowly Peter Parker "must" be portrayed under Marvel's rules.
But the situation isn't that simple, nor it is set in stone. Indeed, there's a complicated argument over intellectual property in play that coincides with the movie industry's reluctance to embrace diversity. And Holland's casting in another story about a white Spider-Man named Peter Parker is the result.
Marvel's deals with Sony and Fox are similar to the ones that are typically written when the rights to a novel are optioned for film. (Marvel reworked this deal in February, allowing Marvel to consult and produce but Sony would still ultimately have final control over the Spider-verse's film rights.) When a book is adapted into a movie, it's common practice for related contracts to specify that certain story elements and characters can't be changed. And it's customary for authors and studios to agree (through their various legal teams) that characters won't be materially altered in a way that contradicts the source material.
Another thing to keep in mind when reading Marvel's extremely specific (and, yes, unprogressive) description of Parker is that Parker's character traits are ultimately a matter of intellectual property.
Parker's traits represent more than 50 years' worth of comic book history; many of them are vital to the origin story that comes to mind when we think of the character, who was created at a time when the country wasn't as diverse or progressive as it is today.
In 2015, it's pretty hard to accept the idea that Parker must remain white and straight simply because he's always been white and straight. But if you think of the character as a piece of intellectual property worth millions of dollars, Marvel and Sony's contract takes on a different tone.
More specifically, the contract only covers Sony's films, which essentially have Parker out on loan. It doesn't apply to Marvel's creative staff, who ultimately determine what happens to Parker. Marvel could conceivably write a story about Peter Parker switching brains and winding up with a different personality, skin color, or sexuality. There's nothing in the contract that defines what Marvel can and cannot do with the character.
Instead, it establishes certain restrictions to prevent Sony from tampering with Parker. The people behind Sony's various Spider-Man movies are different from the people writing Marvel's Spider-Man comic books. And since movies are always going to be more popular than the most popular comic books, it's important to Marvel that the movies it licenses to Sony don't interfere with its comic plans.
But even still, the situation isn't about profit, or even Spider-Man's story arc. It's about keeping control of the character.
As we've seen with Guardians of the Galaxy, films directly affect comic book sales. It isn't too far-fetched to imagine that the reverse could happen, and that a wildly successful Sony film about a "different" Peter Parker would force Marvel to make editorial changes it had no say in.
"The beloved superhero absolutely cannot be certain things, including black or gay," Biddle writes.
His intent is earnest; superheroes represent the best of humanity, but superheroes have traditionally been straight white guys. Diversity and representation matter.
But Biddle's idea that Spider-Man can't be black is misguided. Sony's contract with Marvel says that if Spider-Man is Peter Parker, then Peter Parker must conform to the requirements Marvel has set forth. It does not state that Sony can't make a Spider-Man movie about Miles Morales, a Spider-Man of black/Latino descent who has only appeared in Marvel's comics.
What's more, Sony is free to change the color of Spider-Man's skin and his origin story so long as Spider-Man remains male and does not engage in drug or alcohol use, or sex with underage girls.
Sony not being able to create a gay Spider-Man isn't exactly true, either. What the agreement stipulates is that Marvel must make the editorial decision first, at which point Sony can follow:
(Sony/Marvel via Gawker)
And there's no reason to believe that Marvel wouldn't make such an editorial decision. In the past few years especially, the company has really made an effort to incorporate more stories about nonwhite and female characters into its catalog. It's also introduced more gay characters, and recently revealed that Iceman, an original X-Man, is gay. It isn't that far out to think that in 2011, right around the time Marvel's push for more diversity began, the company may have been mulling a gay Spider-Man, and wanted to prevent Sony from stealing its thunder.
The remaining question is: Why wouldn't Sony go forward with a Spider-Man who isn't Peter Parker?
A huge chunk of the answer is tied to how much the Peter Parker character is worth — the millions of dollars that Spider-Man movies have grossed for Sony and how he's still a hugely profitable character in comic books. Amazing Spider-Man No. 1 was the top-selling comic book of 2014. Sony, no doubt, wants to make money off of its movies  — Marvel only gets a share of the revenue they bring in — and it clearly believes Peter Parker is the key.
Conversely, it feels as though Sony thinks it can't make the money it wants to off of a Miles Morales movie. Spider-Man producer Avi Arad explained this mentality to the Playlist last May:
The one thing you cannot do, when you have a phenomena [sic] that has stood the test of time, you have to be true to the real character inside - who is Peter Parker? What are the biggest effects on his life? Then you can draw in time, and you can consider today's world in many ways.
The implication is that the "real character" inside Spider-Man's signature red-and-blue suit is Peter Parker, and Peter Parker alone. And it might be true that a Miles Morales film won't make as much as a Peter Parker movie. But that theory is currently unproven, and there are a bevy of examples in the comic book world where characters like female Thor and Ms. Marvel (a Pakistani-American, Muslim teenager) are two of Marvel's bigger hits.
Sony is clearly hesitant to try something new with Spider-Man that doesn't involve Peter Parker, and that reluctance is more troublesome and insidious than the idea that Marvel won't allow it to do so.
As a professional TV watcher, the question I hear most often is, "What's good on TV right now?" Here are three promising new shows that will infuse your TV-watching schedule with summer fun.
The greatest compliment I can pay to Mr. Robot, which premieres Wednesday, June 24, on USA, is that it feels like how I sometimes imagine my life. The characters wander a gray cityscape, surrounded by a massive electronic web they cannot see but can somehow perceive, rattling away in the distance. They're caught in it, and sometimes they know they're caught in it, but there's little they can do. This is the way we live now. This is the way we've chosen to live now.

Rating
At its heart, Mr. Robot is cyberpunk, the sci-fi subgenre set in a near-future world where the reality that exists within computer networks can feel more real than actual reality, with its dull, grimy films. What Mr. Robot understands is that it doesn't take much to transpose this genre directly into our reality. We all live in a cyberpunk tale nowadays, at least to some degree. The characters don't have to disappear into some parallel universe within the internet, because the parallel universe exists all around us, all of the time, unseen. A paranoid certainty that you are being watched suffuses every frame, every angle.
It all stems from Elliot (Rami Malek), a young, genius hacker who uses his abilities to right the tiny wrongs he sees around him. In the series' opening scene, he confronts a child-pornography peddler, and the momentary bout of justice seems to do him good. But he feels paralyzed in the face of a gigantic, global system designed to control everybody like puppets. In his day job, he works on protecting the network of a corporation dubbed "Evil Corp" from intrusion, and if you can imagine where a story about a would-be online vigilante working for a company he calls "Evil Corp" is headed, you win.
The titular role in Mr. Robot is played by Christian Slater, as an off-the-grid hacker who wants to bring an end to the American debt crisis (seriously). Slater tries to underplay the character, to occasionally solid effect, but when he's forced to rant about the evils of capitalism, he doesn't quite have it in him. In his own way, the character of Mr. Robot embodies the show Slater is on, always staying a mere millistep ahead of being outright terrible. Fortunately, "a mere millistep ahead of being outright terrible" is where much of the best TV is made.

If you're looking for Mr. Robot, he's Christian Slater. (USA)
Mr. Robot's success is a function of two elements: Malek and creator Sam Esmail (who wrote the two episodes I've seen and directed the second). Malek takes a character who could seem like old news (would you believe he's deeply damaged?) and brings him to seething, paranoid life. Even the constant narration he must deliver generally works, because Malek reads it in the voice of a man who's barely staying on the right side of sanity.
Esmail, meanwhile, drenches Mr. Robot in a thick film of cynicism, and he (along with pilot director Niels Arden Oplev) frames the series so that characters are often reduced to tiny figures at the far edges, surrounded by empty space. They are all alone and powerless, except they live in a world where they are always connected and could possess infinite power with the right keystrokes. Of course, in the irony the show embraces, to realize this is to understand how powerless you truly are. (In the pilot's finest shot, Mr. Robot explains his plan to Elliot as looming Ferris wheel carts roar in the background behind them, making the everyday feel quite ominous.)
It's not immediately clear how Mr. Robot is going to be a television show, and the second episode is already a slight step down from the pilot. It's also not clear how the show's supporting cast fits into what feels like a character study of Elliot in an information age apocalypse. But when the show focuses on that best version of itself, it feels brilliant and paranoid and, above all, prescient.
Mr. Robot airs Wednesdays at 10 pm Eastern on USA. The series premiere is available, commercial-free, on Hulu.
Lifetime
Lifetime
Shiri Appleby (left) and Constance Zimmer star in the dark satire UnREAL. (Lifetime)
Like Mr. Robot, UnREAL airs on a network that viewers aren't accustomed to checking for amazing TV. But where Mr. Robot is on the anodyne USA, UnREAL is on Lifetime, a network perhaps best known for its terrible TV movies and often pandering programming. Also, UnREAL's title contains some idiotic capitalization, and that's rarely a good sign.

Rating
But hidden beneath this show's satirically soapy veneer is one of TV's best, most fearless examinations of mental illness. Reality TV producer Rachel (Shiri Appleby) has returned to her job on the Bachelor-esque dating show Everlasting after a nervous breakdown forced her to exit the series in its prior season. Her foil is Quinn (the great Constance Zimmer), who brings Rachel back to work even though she knows how risky it is to toss Rachel into the middle of a situation that makes her feel morally queasy.
UnREAL is a great many things, including a dark satire of reality TV, a satisfyingly comedic soap opera, and the ultra-rare female antihero drama. But above all else, it's a portrait of how often emotionally fragile people with deep psychological scars are repackaged — repeatedly — for what is ultimately empty entertainment. Though Zimmer is fantastic, it's Appleby who shows new sides here, as she digs deep into a woman who feels real kinship with everybody in front of the camera but also knows that her greatest gift is knowing exactly how to exploit them. So it's not just a riff on reality TV; it's a great satire of therapy itself.
Nobody is watching this show (literally; the third episode's viewership was barely over 500,000). But Lifetime has made it easy to catch up via its own website, and it's clear the network desperately wants to be seen as a home of quality drama. UnREAL makes a very good case for that.
UnREAL airs Mondays on Lifetime at 10 pm Eastern. You can find previous episodes on Lifetime's website.
Amazon
Amazon
Sharon Horgan and Rob Delaney co-created, co-wrote, and co-star in Catastrophe. (Amazon)
If you're an Amazon Prime subscriber, the Atlantic-spanning comedy Catastrophe is an easy choice, and one that you can polish off in a single evening. Co-created by American comedian Rob Delaney (of Twitter jokes fame) and the great Irish writer/actress Sharon Horgan, the series follows an American man and an Irish woman (played by, naturally enough, Delaney and Horgan) who meet while he's traveling in London. They hit it off, have a lot of sex, and part ways. Except she later finds out she's pregnant, and he's determined to be part of the kid's life.

Rating
Though that's a relatively high concept for such a small-scale comedy, Catastrophe itself is mostly a low-key hangout series, where Delaney and Horgan gather a few fellow funny people in every episode and deliver shockingly filthy, ridiculously hilarious dialogue. (In the first episode, the phrase "toboggan of turds" will almost certainly cause you to double over with laughter.) And then, when it needs to, the series can deliver devastating dramatic moments, seemingly without even breaking a sweat. There's nothing revolutionary here, but man, what is here is some of the funniest, most soulful TV of the summer.
And did I mention Catastrophe is just six 25-minute episodes? You won't want to finish it in one sitting, but you will.
Catastrophe is available to stream on Amazon Prime.
Seinfeld, which turned 25 in 2014, is now available to stream online, in its entirety, thanks to Hulu. The series is self-evidently one of the most influential television programs ever made; when it debuted in 1989 it entered a sitcom landscape that was still shaking off the last cobwebs of the 1970s sitcom revolution, and it suggested, boldly, that sitcoms didn't need to be about important issues or even use traditional storytelling methods to be great. Instead, they could just focus on the minutiae of life, the little bits and pieces of larger things that add up to form our points of view. It was a show that reveled in detritus.

Easy to miss in all of that, however, were all of the ways that Seinfeld influenced TV via its underpinnings. Jerry Seinfeld's observational humor affected many other shows of the era (as well as many that premiered long after the series had ended). The "single people living in the big city" premise became the centerpiece of seemingly every other sitcom. But Seinfeld was so huge that it influenced television in many smaller ways, too. Here are five of them.
It's not terribly exciting to think about television in terms of its story structure — the storylines, scenes, and raw dramatic beats that make up any given episode of TV — but Seinfeld's impact on television comedy is actually most pronounced in this arena. The famous "show about nothing" pitch obscured just how much structural work was going on beneath the show's hood. Prior to Seinfeld, most sitcoms broke down into an A-story and a B-story, and the surrounding material could take the form of a so-called "runner," a joke that continued throughout the episode and told a very loose story but didn't do much more than that.
The best Seinfeld episodes are marvels of story structure.
Particularly in its best episodes, Seinfeld blew all of that up. Even in an episode like the famous "The Contest" (the one with the competition to see which of the central foursome can go the longest without masturbating), each of the four characters has their own storyline, all four of which converge in the final moments to create a whole that's larger than its parts. The best Seinfeld episodes are marvels of story structure, with jokes and storylines dovetailing and tucking into each other in ways that can be as thrilling as any twist in a plot-heavy drama.

This approach has become incredibly common since Seinfeld left the air. In particular, it's useful to look at Arrested Development, one of the show's most obvious heirs and one where individual episodes could contain up to nine stories (one for each regular character) that collided by the time the episode ended. Not every show uses the Seinfeld structure (and some, like Everybody Loves Raymond, used structures that were deliberately as little like Seinfeld as possible), but the series gave other shows the option of pursuing far more than the typical two stories per episode.
Matt Zoller Seitz made this point ably over at Vulture last week: while much of the credit for the age of antiheroes — which TV is just exiting — often gets placed at the feet of The Sopranos, Seinfeld was just as much of an influence. Writes Seitz:
Seinfeld's impact resonated beyond comedy. Its serene belief that characters did not have to be likable as long as they were interesting foreshadowed a change in TV drama that wouldn't settle until the late '90s, when HBO turned a show about violent gangsters into an award-winning hit. We tend to forget that the first coldly expedient hero to anchor an influential, long-running series named after him wasn't Tony Soprano. It was Jerry Seinfeld.
Yet look beyond just Jerry, and you see that Seinfeld is filled with the sorts of self-involved jerks who would drive many of the best TV shows of the last decade. Seinfeld is perhaps the earliest series to essentially dare the audience to identify with its characters by seeing their own worst traits reflected in them. It believed it could do this simply by crafting characters who were as interesting and funny as possible. It was mostly right.
Take the character of George, perhaps the show's most compelling, most loathsome figure. We empathize with George because we recognize in his character all of the times we've been unable to escape our own limitations and weaknesses. But look at him from another perspective, and he's a ‘90s riff on what we might now call "nice guy syndrome." And the show endlessly mocks him for it!
George essentially believes he deserves to have sex with a beautiful woman because he's a white guy living in modern America, and when he doesn't succeed (but Jerry or Kramer does), he grows ever more petulant. He doesn't particularly want to strive to succeed. He just wants life handed to him on a silver platter. That was the kind of character TV hadn't really seen before Seinfeld hit the air, but it's also the kind of character who's everywhere now, and often on shows that don't realize Seinfeld worked because the joke was much more often on George (or Jerry or Kramer or Elaine) than it was on anybody else.
George was the kind of character TV hadn't really seen before Seinfeld hit the air, but also the kind of character who's everywhere now.
Funny women in control of their own destinies existed on television before Elaine, but Elaine was the first one who was simply allowed to unapologetically be whatever she wanted to be. Even a short year before Seinfeld debuted, a show like Murphy Brown had to essentially center everything on the fact that its protagonist was a single woman making her way through her life and work. Also worth considering is the Jamie Lee Curtis and Richard Lewis vehicle Anything But Love, which debuted a few months before Seinfeld and had much in common with it (including a large number of scenes set in diners during which Curtis and Lewis discussed the oddities of modern life), but constantly felt the need to make Curtis's arc largely about her romantic prospects or lack thereof.
Elaine was different. Many of her stories were about her love life, but she also had weird jobs and got just as involved in the shenanigans of a given episode as any of the male characters. Thanks to the work of Julia Louis-Dreyfus, one of the great comedic actresses of American television, Elaine could be both deeply weird and deeply feminine. TV hadn't known a character like her before, and she paved the way for everyone from Leslie Knope to Hannah Horvath.

Little of this is Seinfeld's fault; television's whiteness has far more to do with the Clinton-era repeal of the Financial Interest and Syndication Rules (a subject for another time). But it's worth pointing out that the centerpiece of NBC's very diverse 1980s Thursday sitcom lineup was The Cosby Show, while Seinfeld was the centerpiece of its very white 1990s Thursday sitcom lineup. It more or less made sense for Seinfeld to be as white as it was. The show was, after all, famously rejected by audience testers, and NBC's Brandon Tartikoff worried it was "too New York, too Jewish." It was, to a real degree, about four people who were incredibly limited in their perceptions and worldviews, so a certain amount of tunnel vision made sense.
But Seinfeld was also the unlikely beneficiary of the fact that the television landscape was changing. By its final season, the series was a mega-hit, watched by large numbers of people in all demographics. However, in its early years, it struggled in the ratings, kept alive by critical acclaim and awards attention, sure, but also because the people who were watching it were more demographically desirable to advertisers. And what that usually means is young white people with lots of money who live in cities.
What felt revolutionary on Seinfeld quickly curdled into something harder and harder to stomach on the many shows it inspired.
As that demographic was targeted with more and more focus in years to come, it would lead to shows with fewer and fewer people of color, shows that could be good (Friends or Girls) or bad (the many, many Seinfeld clones of the mid-'90s) but still shows that were overwhelmingly about a bunch of white, affluent people who never had to worry about anything but the trivial details of life. What felt revolutionary on Seinfeld quickly curdled into something harder and harder to stomach on the many shows it inspired.
When television experts talk about a "multi-camera" sitcom, what they mean is a sitcom that functions almost as a filmed play, with multiple cameras (usually four) in fixed positions capturing the action of a sitcom taping, usually in front of a live audience. Think of the difference in presentation between Cheers (a very classical multi-camera sitcom) and Modern Family (which is what is usually called a "single-camera" sitcom and is presented much more cinematically than theatrically). The evolutionary history of the sitcom format can be split into two periods, with Seinfeld as a rough dividing line.
NBC actually forced creators Seinfeld and Larry David to make the show a multi-camera, but once the two were committed to doing so, they essentially broke all of the established rules of how multi-camera sitcoms worked, twisting and bending them so far that the multi-camera sitcom had essentially nowhere else to go if writers wanted to continue to innovate.
The longer the show ran, the more single-camera sequences it inserted into the action. (Think, for instance, of all of those scenes with characters walking down city streets, which were pre-taped and aired for the studio audience, instead of being presented live on stage.) And the longer it ran, the more it broke those stories up into smaller and smaller pieces, presaging the joke-a-second pace most single-camera sitcoms run at today.
And yet Seinfeld stands as a testament to how good multi-camera sitcoms can be at their best. Several of the show's sequences would only work in the more theatrical trappings of the multi-cam, and the performers' broadness was also given greater latitude by the format.
Think of the famous story George tells about removing a golf ball from a whale's blowhole. On a single-camera sitcom, that might be presented to the audience as it happened. On Seinfeld, which was limited in how much location filming it could do, the story becomes a yarn for Jason Alexander to spin, and that makes all the difference in terms of humor.


Seinfeld left big shoes for the sitcom to fill. Some (like Raymond) might have returned to a more deliberately classical vibe. But others pushed past it and found that the only territory left to explore involved finding new ways to film these sorts of shows. Seinfeld might have been something of an endpoint for lots of different sitcom techniques, but it was also the beginning of many, many others.
The pantheon of American lawn kitsch has lost a legend: Don Featherstone, creator of the pink plastic lawn flamingo, died on Monday at age 79, just hours shy of Pink Flamingo Day.
Featherstone may not have been a household name — apt though his name was — but his memory will forever live on in the injection-molded relics of the past. Indeed, the "flight" of the Phoenicopterus ruber plasticus is a long and storied one.
A few highlights:
By the 1980s, flamingo-themed installations were appearing in avant-garde galleries. But the baby boomers were also carrying the flamingo in backpacks across Europe, and kayaking with it through the wilderness. The bird became the ultimate marker for crossing boundaries of every conceivable kind. By the 1990s, it had become a popular housewarming gift.

Don Featherstone's signature on an "official" plastic pink flamingo. (Getty/Robert Sullivan)
It's been 25 years since Seinfeld premiered on May 31, 1990, and one thing's always been true: this is our view of Jerry's apartment. There's good reason for it, too — the audience and cameras are on the other side.
The classic Seinfeld shot.
NBC/Getty Images
But what if you could look in the other direction? What if you could see the other side of Jerry's apartment? What if you could see the fourth wall?
This is that wall:
The fourth wall of Seinfeld.
NBC/Getty Images
Why is the wall there? It was probably used for kitchen scenes — in case the camera drifted too far to the right, the wall ensured an empty studio wasn't revealed. But more important are the revelations about Jerry's character.
Now we know where Jerry stores his mugs, which were part of most shows:
Simple, effective. Note the multicolored dishes.
NBC/Getty Images
Seinfeld fans know Jerry's passion for cereal is unmatched. Here are his boxes on full display (some sources say there are 17 different types of cereal).
Jerry has many varieties of cereal. Would a show about nothing have this much grain?
NBC/Getty Images
He also has two champagnes (possibly a Moet on top and Perrier-Jouet below that), a red wine, and one white wine. On the show, Jerry drinks extremely rarely (with some exceptions, as in "The Red Dot," when he enjoyed Scotch). Is Jerry a secret oenophile?
He's got room for two more. Why isn't he using that space more efficiently?
NBC/Getty Images
The posters deserve their own close-up view:
Jerry's fourth wall, revealed.
NBC/Getty Images
On that wall, you'll see a vintage Porsche ad, a baseball poster, a photo of an old horse and carriage, and another baseball picture. It's classic Jerry — it turns out that even on the fourth wall, his passion for baseball and cars is fierce.
But that's not all. Another picture from the same photo shoot shows Jerry's apartment in a new way:
Jerry's apartment, as you've never seen it before.
NBC/Getty Images
This wall illustrates Jerry's consistency: more baseball and Porsches (this time, he celebrates the 356 West Coast Holiday). Unfortunately the book titles are unreadable, but look in the upper right corner:
This may be Jerry's childhood baseball team.
NBC/Getty Images
We may have just gotten a peek at the childhood of Jerry Seinfeld, the character. Is that his Little League team above? Is George Costanza somewhere in that picture? We may never know, and therein lies the mystery.
If this rare glimpse into the secret world of Seinfeld has inspired you to learn more, credit set designer Thomas E. Azzari, who created the version of the apartment we know today. You can watch an extensive interview with him here.
But even if that's the end of your exploration of Jerry's apartment, don't forget what you saw today. And don't let anyone — anyone — tell you this was a show about nothing. These walls prove there was more to Seinfeld than we ever knew.
By signing up, you agree to our terms. For more newsletters, check out our newsletters page.
Updated: Thanks to a reader who helped identify Jerry's champagne.
Vox featured video: Filmmaking tricks, explained
For the next several days, several of Vox's writers will discuss the third season of Orange Is the New Black. Before you dig into the latest round, check out our review of the full season, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date.
Dylan Matthews: I'm having a bit of trouble finishing Orange Is the New Black season three — and not just because of its dubious social science citations. It's not, as Alex (Abad-Santos, not Vause) argued, that the characters feel like they're growing more clichéd. I think that critique loses its bite as the season progresses. The problem is that Netflix shows, in general, have no idea what to do with the middle of their seasons.
The first two seasons of Orange Is the New Black revolved around single, dominant storylines: the Piper-Alex-Larry love triangle in season one, and the Vee vs. Red showdown in season two. Their approaches weren't particularly original in terms of structure. Season one evoked other TV series' season-long love triangles, like Jim-Pam-Karen on The Office or Rory-Dean-Jess on Gilmore Girls, while season two brought to mind "big bad" shows like Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Justified, where the season is built around a villain who needs to be taken down.
We're left with a half-dozen odd storylines being juggled, all of which feel independent and non-intersecting
Season three feels a bit fresher for not relying on a tried-and-true formula, but doesn't make an effort to shore itself up in the absence of a given structure. There's no single plot line that every episode is focused on furthering. Piper's panty-smuggling business is fun, but doesn't get nearly enough screen time to anchor the season. Same goes for Norma's New Age-y religion/cult/meditation club and the Gloria vs. Sophia battle over their teenage sons' behavior. The prison privatization plot comes closest, but developments there happen slowly, and usually result in Mike Birbiglia's corporate-stooge-who-cares character imposing new cuts or restrictions on warden Joe Caputo (Nick Sandow), and Caputo capitulating after a bit of weak, ineffectual protest. Privatization isn't an active enough plot line to ground the season; it's an important piece of background context, one that makes Red and Pennsatucky's stories possible, but not much of a story in its own right.
So we're left instead with a half-dozen odd storylines being juggled, all of which feel independent and non-intersecting, and none of which look poised to congeal into something gripping enough to carry us through to the season finale.
I might be wrong about this. I felt the same way around episode nine of Bloodline, and then the show set its endgame in motion and I was riveted. I can imagine a few ways in which Orange Is the New Black could pull itself together for a final push. As of the end of episode nine, where I am at the moment, Piper's panty business is actively threatening her relationship with Alex by pulling her toward Stella (Ruby Rose). Alex is in turn pushing Piper away as she grows more and more paranoid — and more and more seemingly justified in her paranoia — of Lolly (Lori Petty), who sure acts like she's been hired to kill Alex. Pulling those threads together could make for a big-feeling final act.

But even if things do converge, Netflix really needs to acknowledge that episodes three through 10 of a season exist, and can't just be phoned in. The reason many shows lean on formulas like love triangles and "big bads" is that they provide a ready-made framework for each step of the season. The first act of the love triangle plot introduces the main relationship (Piper and Larry), the second introduces the challenger (Alex), the third pushes all three participants toward a resolution. The first act of the big bad plotline introduces the villain (Vee), the second delves into the villain's backstory, and the third shows his or her ultimate downfall. Each portion of the season has a task it needs to complete.
In the absence of an off-the-shelf setup like that, Netflix series have a tendency to drag in the middle of their seasons, because there's no real reason they can't. When a show is serialized weekly on actual broadcast networks, it can't afford to bore viewers and risk losing them before the season is over. That provides an incentive for maintaining momentum throughout. But on Netflix, the assumption is that most viewers are binge-watching, and will finish the entire season no matter what. So why not concentrate on making the end of the season mind-blowing, and slack off in the middle?
This dynamic is most evident in Orange Is the New Black's season three flashbacks, which feel dutiful in a way the previous seasons' didn't. That's not to say they're bad, necessarily. I loved seeing Chang's (Lori Tan Chinn) past as a gang boss. But what did it actually do in terms of the overall plot? Vee's flashbacks established her relationships in the prison and grounded other characters' fears. What do Leanne's (Emma Myles) Rumspringa memories tell us? That she's devout and likes organized religion? We knew that in season one!
I'm ready to forgive a lot if season three sticks the landing. But Netflix needs to figure out a way to solve its midseason problem.
Read our review of season three. Come back soon for more discussion.
Previous entry
Every week, a handful of Vox's writers will discuss the second season of True Detective. Before we begin, check out our recap of the season two premiere, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date. Joining culture editor Todd VanDerWerff will be deputy culture editor Jen Trolio and more.
Jen Trolio: Throughout the past few years, "anthology" TV series have experienced a resurgence of sorts, ultimately becoming one of the industry's hottest and most enduring trends. After American Horror Story successfully hit the reset button in its second season (which debuted in 2012) by starting over with a new premise and many of the same actors returning in new roles, several networks ordered various permutations of the format. And last year, two of the most successful anthology TV series to date, FX’s Fargo and HBO’s True Detective, made a strong case for ordering even more: both told open-and-shut stories that ranked among the best television of 2014 according to critics and viewers alike.
Sadly, True Detective didn’t exactly wow in its season two premiere — a not altogether unexpected outcome, given that prestige cable series whose inaugural seasons appear on multiple year-end top 10 lists have a way of generating hype, and hype has way of generating disappointment. But as you said, Todd, "The Western Book of the Dead" wasn’t just a season premiere; it was a pilot, and thus it faced many of the same challenges that the pilot of any brand new TV series faces, like having to establish an entirely new story and cast of characters while convincing unfamiliar viewers to come back for more.

What’s unique about the situation that True Detective now finds itself in is that it appears to be stuck in somewhat of a lose-lose proposition. Lots of people who were quite enamored with the show in season one are feeling disappointed, unsure of whether season two will ultimately prove itself worthwhile, just as lots more people who didn’t watch season one but were encouraged by their friends or Twitter chatter or whatever to check out season two are shrugging, wondering what makes True Detective so special.
I’m part of the latter camp; I kind of missed the boat on season one, and even though it's only eight episodes long and I keep saying I'm going to sit down one Saturday and marathon it, I have yet to actually do so. But until I cross that item off my pop culture to-do list, my unfamiliarity with Marty Hart and Rust Cohle shouldn't have any bearing on my enjoyment of season two — theoretically. Indeed, isn't that kind of the point of an anthology?
I didn't love or hate True Detective's season two premiere; it had its moments, but mostly I found it kind of boring. Not much stood out to me as a reason to commit to watching the show for the rest of the summer (not even Taylor Kitsch's bare butt). Likewise, it didn't leave me feeling any particular sense of urgency to go back and watch season one in search of whatever brilliance I have yet to experience. And that has me wondering whether the series — and its anthological peers — are at a distinct disadvantage in terms of growing and/or retaining viewership over time.
Since the only continuity from one season of True Detective to the next is the series' title, I should be able jump right into season two. But given that it's essentially a new show that I don't feel any loyalty to because I didn't invest any time in season one, am I prone to being more critical of it than I might otherwise be?
Yes, we're only one episode in, and as Todd wrote, series creator Nic Pizzolatto could certainly turn things around as season two progresses — but I'm definitely not compelled to stick around and find out. Would I be more forgiving if I'd watched season one? Put another way, does having seen season one matter more than I thought (or more than it should), even though season two is a whole new beast? And perhaps most importantly, what does that say about the potential positives and pitfalls that anthology TV series might benefit or suffer from over time?
Read the recap. Come back soon for more discussion.
Previous entry
Orange Is the New Black is confined to one location — indeed, to one building — for the bulk of its running time. But it always feels like the biggest show on television, like the stories contained within the walls of Litchfield Penitentiary encompass the whole of humanity, the whole of the world.

Rating
It's an endlessly empathetic show, where each and every character matters in ways that few other TV series would dare attempt. From the lowliest new inmate to the most powerful people at the prison, creator Jenji Kohan makes sure Orange has room for everybody in its view of the world.
The show's third season, which launched on Netflix Friday, June 12, struggles at times to hit the heights of the show's first two seasons. But it also does so much necessary work to rebuild a lot of what the over-the-top, massive second season seemed close to tearing down. While that second season was thrilling, ambitious television, it also grew so big that trying to top it could have easily caused the show to implode.
Instead, season three did everything it needed to do to make sure the series can continue for years to come. It wasn't as immediately satisfying as season two, but it was, in some ways, even more important to the run of the show as a whole, and it built to a final set of episodes that are as good as anything Orange has attempted so far.
Let's look at all of the ways the series perfectly set itself up for seasons to come.
Warning: mild spoilers for the full third season follow.
Not even the Martha Stewart-esque figure who seems like she'll end up in Litchfield ends up being the main villain.
Netflix
Season two was dominated by the conflict between chef Red (Kate Mulgrew) and newly returned inmate Vee (Lorraine Toussaint). It was such a big, centralized storyline that it had a tendency to draw everything else toward it. Similarly, season one eventually boiled down to a conflict between the newly incarcerated Piper Chapman (Taylor Schilling, ostensibly the show's main character) and the conservative Christian fundamentalist stereotype Pennsatucky (Taryn Manning).
While conflict between inmates is a good story engine for Orange, it also can't drive every season, or the series will become too formulaic. Plus, trying to top Vee could have easily led the show off a cliff. The character was so villainous, yet so sympathetic, that she was like the perfect Orange baddie.
In season three, there is no overarching villain. There are conflicts between inmates here and there — notably when Gloria (Selenis Leyva) and Sophia (Laverne Cox) are at odds in the season's back half — but the overall story is much more thematically unified around the idea of both society and the prison system being the story's true villain. This is not a show about prisoners butting heads; it's about how the prison system makes them turn against each other, because it's so inherently dehumanizing.
The season's final two scenes underline this. In the first, the women race into the lake that sits behind the prison, thanks to a series of unlikely coincidences that might as well add up to a genuine miracle. Frolicking in the water, the women don't seem like prisoners, if only for the faintest of moments.
But then the series drives everything home, as more buses, filled with more women dressed in orange, drive in through the front gate. Any reprieve will be short-lived. The never-ending grind of life at Litchfield goes on.
The baby of Daya (Dascha Polanco) and Bennett (Matt McGorry) ends up being a key part of one of the season's main themes.
Netflix
Instead of revolving around a single plot, season three seems to be built upon three central themes that collide in the finale in messy, unpredictable ways. Let's look at them one by one.
Motherhood: The most obvious of the season's major themes, motherhood is addressed in almost every episode and informs many of the season's flashbacks to the inmates' lives before they arrived at Litchfield. The season premiere even takes place on Mother's Day and involves the characters having a few moments with their children or their own mothers. The season also builds to the birth of Daya's baby, the product of her union with prison guard Bennett (who leaves town) — a storyline three seasons in the making. The idea of motherhood ties into the series' intense, empathetic concern for everybody in Litchfield. Motherhood, after all, involves caring for someone, and the inmates often have no one to care for them but each other.
Faith: One of season three's stranger tangents is some sort of witchcraft cult begun by Norma (Annie Golden), the speechless woman who once worked in the kitchen. As the season progresses, she becomes more and more of a messianic figure, thanks to the proselytizing of her followers, who also push away those who don't fit neatly into the incipient religion's organization. And yet the season isn't all about the awful things faith can do. Even if the "miracles" Norma works are simple coincidences, they seem significant to the women who follow her, and they provide tiny moments of freedom amid captivity. Meanwhile, Black Cindy's conversion to Judaism is treated completely seriously and with great reverence. The scene where she convinces a rabbi of her earnest desire to convert is among the most powerful Orange has ever done.
Exploitation: Everybody's using somebody else in season three, whether it's the way the new corporate overlords of the prison (which has privatized) seem to treat the women within its walls as statistics they can move around on a spreadsheet, or the way that Piper herself treats the women who sign up for her service that sells the used underwear of female convicts to the less savory elements of the outside world. The system dehumanizes, yes, but it also forces people into positions where they dehumanize other people, because capitalism is all about grinding out slightly more profit, forgetting the human cost those profits are built upon. In that way, it's also the most surprisingly forthright defense of the right to unionize from a work of American pop culture in a long, long time.
Piper (Taylor Schilling) gets to explore her dark side in season three. It suits her.
Netflix
Schilling's performance has long been one of Orange's best elements. She knows Piper can be incredibly unlikable, but she doesn't seem to mind pushing those elements of her character to their utmost. Even in season two, which largely sidelined the character, Schilling was always present and perfect, even in the backgrounds of large crowd scenes.
In season three, then, the show seems as if it's going to push forward in her star-crossed relationship with Alex (Laura Prepon), the woman who got Piper into this situation in the first place. But after a few episodes where the two have hate sex, the show settles them into a kind of couplehood and has Piper explore her economic options behind bars — culminating in a plan to smuggle prison panties out to her brother, who will sell them on the internet.
But setting up this illegal operation means that Piper eventually has to give in to her dark side. What begins as something she thinks might be mildly empowering turns her into a de facto gang boss, punishing people who double-cross her and setting up payment plans that operate similarly to how drug dealers pay their own underlings. It's a great turn for the character, and Schilling expertly plays every shade of Piper's semi-descent into legitimate criminality.
Sophia (Laverne Cox) is one of the inmates who is most ill-served by the corporate takeover of Litchfield.
Netflix
I've already touched on season three's pro-union themes (though it maintains the same skepticism for unions as it does for any other institution), but it's also deeply horrified by the corporation that turns the prison into just another way to make a few spare dollars here and there. That means the inmates' needs aren't cared for, a situation that spirals out to touch almost everybody in the prison, including the employees.
It starts small, too, with things like terrible food that is even worse than the cuisine in previous seasons (this demoralizes Red, who can't believe she's asked to cook it). But it soon grows into something almost all-encompassing. Newly hired prison employees who don't know the inmates very well miss important details, allowing dangerous scenarios to develop. Sophia is sent to solitary confinement for her protection, because Litchfield's management doesn't know how else to care for her when she comes under attack for her trans status. Women are pushed into service to make underwear, a system that Piper is able to exploit, which in turn makes her a workplace oppressor as well.
The privatization of Litchfield is presented, when it happens, as a kind of catchall solution to the prison's continual problems with funding. But what actually happens is that it becomes an even greater squeeze on already limited resources, and one that doesn't much care about the people who are ostensibly there to be rehabilitated. Orange displays great empathy for everybody caught up in this system, but it sees the system as fundamentally dehumanizing, something that must be torn down so somebody can build something more humane.
Taylor Schilling and Laura Prepon play Orange Is the New Black's OTP, Piper and Alex.
Netflix
Though season three is more scattered and less story-driven than Orange's previous seasons, it's filled with absolutely stunning scenes, when the camera cuts to some tiny moment of perfectly observed human behavior.
Consider, for instance, the remarkable shot of the often loathsome guard Healy (Michael Healy) openly crying at the wedding that takes place in the season finale. Or think of the small sequences that detail commissary head Chang's daily routine in the episode focused on her, especially the way the episode pays special attention to how she transforms Fritos, water, and peas into the little biscuits she eats, anything to find solace in her life. Or even look at how Orange has turned Pennsatucky from the stereotype we met in season one into someone who is slowly realizing all of the terrible things that have happened to her throughout her life.
Orange's third season can sometimes feel slightly too consumed by these moments; it can feel too disjointed, without a strong, central story to bring everything together. But by season's end, it becomes all the more clear that these moments are the show's whole point. To be in prison is to search, endlessly, for ways to maintain your humanity, even when it seems hopelessly lost. Orange's greatest strength is that it never succumbs to despair, yet also never suggests despair has disappeared entirely. It's pitched, forever, between giving up and pushing back, between losing hope and clinging desperately to what little hope you have left.
The third season of Orange Is the New Black is currently streaming on Netflix. Join us later in the week for a conversation about this season.
Fetty Wap had us at "Hey, what's up? Hello."
Those are some of the opening words to Fetty's soaring synth bash "Trap Queen" — a glass of sonic champagne that's equal parts love sonnet, ode to the American dream, street opera, personal finance primer, and cocaine fever dream:

Throughout the past year (the song was technically released in March 2014), "Trap Queen" has worked its way up from internet obscurity, eventually becoming a viral phenomenon and the No. 2 song in America. If it continues on its indomitable path, global domination is the only logical endpoint.

"Trap Queen" is the song playing on your iPhone while sweat accumulates behind your knees; it's the song playing on the radio while anxious parents drop their kids off at the mall hoping they won't get murdered or pregnant; it's the song playing at barbecues where dad bods are on full display and Natty Ice flows freely; it's the song playing at a suburban wedding where some bridesmaid is having the worst night of her life because plum isn't her color; it's the song playing at house parties you weren't invited to; it's the song I assume is playing at the club where a man, armed with finger guns, waits for someone to make eye contact with him so he can flirt by mouthing the words of the first verse (I have not been to a club, let alone the club, since I was spry young man).
Even the New England Patriots are "dancing" to it:
What makes "Trap Queen" such a refreshing revelation is that — from its lyrics to its beat — the song is an amalgam of the relatable and the niche. At some points it is love reimagined as a Lamborghini, pole-dancing, and cocaine; at others, it's a majestic Jane Austen–esque tribute to fidelity, mutual success, and financial responsibility. It incorporates slang about narcotics distribution, yet everyone knows all the words. And even though it's extremely specific to a certain kind of love forged from abandoned houses and $1,000 pole dances, it manages to transcend race, sexuality, creed, and class and make that love universal.
"Trap Queen" isn't just the song of summer. It's an American marvel.
The easy answer here is a loyal, smart, tough woman. According to an interview Fetty did with Complex, his inspiration for the song was a woman who stayed by his side and  was there for him during his hard times dealing drugs:
"I was just dealing with somebody at the time, and she was holding me down. We were building a lot, and I came up with the concept. She was my trap queen," he said.
Fetty's answer brings us to the next level of the song and its use of slang. A "trap" is a house that doubles as a place where you deal, store, and package drugs; the proprietor's "queen" is the girlfriend who helps him accomplish the latter. And in a broader sense, "trap" also refers to the idea of being trapped in the drug-dealing lifestyle and how hard it can be to escape it.
Fetty's music is also part of a bigger genre called trap music, which often employs synths, an 808 baseline, and hi-hats that wrap themselves around the dance beat you hear in "Trap Queen."
"I made it for the people who listen to trap music without them knowing they’re listening to trap music," Fetty told Complex. "That’s basically what I tried to do without confusing everybody."
What Fetty says is interesting, in that it explains why "Trap Queen" has become a pop cultural phenomenon. It has the approachable quality of a lot of pop music, but there's also a subversion and a tweak. Fetty says he's bringing trap — the lyrics about dealing drugs — to people who wouldn't normally listen to the stuff. According to the artist, he's created a trap Trojan Horse of sorts.
For example, in "Trap Queen,"  Fetty sings about how much money he and the titular woman made:
She my trap queen, let her hit the bando
We be countin' up, watch how far them bands go
We just set a goal, talkin' matchin' Lambos
At 56 a gram, 5 a 100 grams though
She is his trap queen, the "bando" is the abandoned building or house where drug deals are orchestrated, and now, because of their success, they are swimming in money. "Bands" refers to increments of  $1,000, and the last line of the verse explains how much money Fetty is making and his going rate:
At 56 a gram 5 a 100 grams doe … the correct lyrics lol    #traptalk

Fetty and his queen are not finished. They will not be finished until they get matching Lamborghinis — the ultimate sign of true love.
This is one of the biggest questions surrounding the song. On one level, you have this unique story of small-business owners Fetty and his trap queen overcoming the odds and bragging about what they're going to buy with all their drug money. And on the next level, you have this indomitable pop hit being hummed by people who don't even know the lyrics.
"I think the climate of popular music has always forced the public to stop taking songs at their most literal," Hanif Abdurraqib, a poet and music critic, told me. "The whole history of pop is about singing along first and considering what we’re singing later."
Abdurraqib has written perhaps the best essay on "Trap Queen" on the internet today, titled "In Defense of 'Trap Queen' As Our Generation’s Greatest Love Song." He argues that the song's mass popularity is a testament to its success, and that Fetty is hitting on universal themes of shared success, enduring love, and sacrifice that are relatable even if they come by way of dealing hundreds of grams in narcotics.
"We’re the generation that sang along to "Semi-Charmed Life" and played "Pumped Up Kicks" at dance parties," Abdurraqib added. "And so, there has always been this instant thing where we divorce a song’s truest meaning from our desire to enjoy it."
"Semi-Charmed Life" by Third Eye Blind was released in 1997 and become one of the biggest songs of that year, reaching No. 4 on Billboard's Hot 100 and spending 43 weeks on the chart:

At the time, the song was as catchy and as upbeat a tune as you could find; it would've fit right into any '90s teen movie. But it's also a song about crystal meth addiction. Lead singer Stephan Jenkins sings:
Doing crystal myth
Will lift you up until you break
It won't stop
I won't come down, I keep stock
With a tick-tock rhythm and a bump for the drop
And then I bumped up
I took the hit I was given
Then I bumped again
And then I bumped again
How do I get back there to
The place where I fell asleep inside you?
Foster the People's "Pumped Up Kicks" experienced a similar trajectory to "Semi-Charmed Life" when it was released in 2011. The smooth, faux-hipster dance song reached No. 3 on Billboard's Hot 100 and spent 34 weeks on the chart.

But layered beneath the melody's infectious whistle are lyrics that contain the inner monologue of a teen contemplating a school shooting:
All the other kids with the pumped up kicks
You better run, better run, outrun my gun
All the other kids with the pumped up kicks
You better run, better run, faster than my bullet
These songs were just as popular as "Trap Queen" is now; they were also, I'd argue, more risqué. There's a sense of satire and self-awareness present in "Trap Queen" that you don't see in "Semi-Charmed Life" or "Pumped Up Kicks," songs that attempt to earnestly translate personal narratives surrounding addiction (while also blurring the line on misogyny) and school shootings.
"I think 'Trap Queen' is simply falling in line with that tradition, though perhaps to a slightly larger extent due to it being a rap song, or a song that the radio might say is about, 'urban culture,'" Abdurraqib said. "So the kids in the 'burbs have to maybe add another level to the disconnect, but when everyone has their hands in the air at a house party, no one’s thinking about it."
"Trap Queen" is relatable for the same reason Taylor Swift is relatable. The song, just like Swift, is so very good at creating a yearning and a nostalgia for an experience that's completely beyond the average person's understanding.
For example, in "Red," Swift sings about "driving a Maserati down a dead-end street":

There's certainly a chance that Swift, who makes enough money to afford multiple Maseratis, knows what that feels like. But for 99.99 percent of Americans, driving a car like that in a cul-de-sac is something they'll never experience. The same can be said for much of Swift's other lyrical subject matter, like having multiple famous friends or that time she was dating a Kennedy or breaking up with Harry Styles.
Yet Swift's entire career is based on all of us "knowing" the feelings she feels, but that's because she's so good at calculating the way we think about "love." And she's very aware of how this plays out:

"Trap Queen" works in the same way. If you strip down the hyperbole of 'Lambos, 'Raris, and pole-dancing, it's about a man who shares a vulnerable part of himself with a woman who accepts it. Fetty is willing to give up everything for her and give up everything to her. And his love for this woman will continue even after "Trap Queen" ends.
When you think about it, buying matching Lambos isn't as foreign or outlandish as driving that Maserati down the dead-end street, or having a billion dollars in an elevator, or a football star and a debutante eating chili dogs while sitting outside a Tastee Freez.
Fetty knows how any of us might feel about someone who's been with us through the hairy times — it's survival. He also knows there's something desirable about the idea of sharing your success with that same person. As an aspirational scenario, it's absolutely relatable.
"For me, the idea of celebrating love — and celebrating the pursuit of money — in reimagined urban spaces is perhaps as American as anything else that we can think of,"  Abdurraqib said. "I think the most American parts of ['Trap Queen'] rest in how it depicts survival, which is also a type of love. Maybe the strongest type."
This tension has existed in music since before "Trap Queen." Everyone can name some band or singer or album they listened to and loved "before it got big." For Generation Xers it might be Nirvana, for theater kids it might be the Fun Home album, for gay men it might be Kylie Minogue — someone was always there first, and this music represented something truer to them before it was adopted by the mainstream.
"I came to the realization a while ago that everything I love or hold close is maybe 45 seconds away from becoming loved and held close by thousands, maybe millions of other people," Abdurraqib says.
But there's also a crucial self-awareness that Fetty has woven into "Trap Queen." It's not really meant to be taken as an authentic narrative. The song is dripping in hyperbole, satirizing the amount of wealth that Fetty will accumulate. He sings:
I hit the strip with my trap queen 'cause all we know is bands
I just might snatch up a 'Rari and buy my boo a 'Lamb
I might just snatch her necklace, drop a couple on a ring
She ain't want it for nothin' because I got her everything
Remember, this is a song that starts out with, "Hey, what's up? Hello." That's what 13-year-old boys say to girls at the mall. But one minute later, Fetty transitions from this odd pickup line to introducing the woman he used it on to his drug-dealing business. And another 30 seconds later, they're buying expensive sports cars and jewelry.
"I think the song not pretending to take itself seriously is what makes it stronger, in spite of how ridiculous it is. If black music is going to be absurd, and if it’s going to do it without making a mockery of blackness, there has to be a pretty high level of self-awareness," Abdurraqib explains.
My friend, behold this remix:.

But it isn't as popular as the original version. On Spotify, it only has 1.6 million plays, while the original version of "Trap Queen" has 111 million plays.
Grantland's Rembert Browne believes this underloved version is a bit better than the original. He argues that Fetty's rap in the original is subpar, and that subbing in Gucci Mane and Quavo elevates the song to the stratosphere, where it belongs.
"[T]he jump in quality from 'Trap Queen' to 'Trap Queen (Remix)' is like going from San Francisco to New York City," Browne wrote. "You thought your life was fun, but then you realized you didn’t even know what fun was, because you had lived in San Francisco."
Yes.
For two and a half decades, the Lifetime network has been blessing America with schlocky, made-for-TV movies that fall somewhere between daytime soap opera and America’s Most Wanted reenactments. Some of them focus on celebrities (Aaliyah: The Princess of R&B, William & Kate: The Movie); some are true-crime thrillers (The Craigslist Killer), and some are original and possibly instructive tales (How I Married My High School Crush). All of them rely on questionable dialogue, gauzy lighting, and an overdose of over-the-top drama.
On Saturday, June 20, the network premiered its latest work, the highly anticipated and very Lifetime-ishly titled A Deadly Adoption, starring Saturday Night Live alums Will Ferrell and Kristen Wiig. The stars had reportedly wanted the project to be a secret, going so far as to briefly claim it had been scrapped after details were leaked to the press.

And despite A Deadly Adoption’s high-comedy pedigree — Ferrell and Adam McKay’s (Stepbrothers) company, Gary Sanchez Productions, produced, and Andrew Steele (of the epic romance spoof The Spoils of Babylon, also starring Wiig and Ferrell) wrote the script — Lifetime VP of original movies Arturo Interian told EW the film was not meant to be a joke: "It’s not the Scary Movie parody of a Lifetime movie. [Ferrell] wanted to legitimately do a Lifetime sexual thriller."
And a Lifetime sexual thriller was exactly what he produced: Ferrell and Wiig play Robert and Sarah Benson, a married couple with a 5-year-old diabetic daughter named Sully. The movie begins with a tragic accident on a boating dock that causes Sarah to miscarry their second child, then picks up five years later as they're trying to adopt. They soon meet Bridgette (Jessica Lowndes), the apparent birth mother of their dreams, and they offer to put her up in their house until she has her baby — but it of course turns out that (say it with me) Bridgette is not who she seems. Murder, mayhem, and melodrama ensue.
Here are the six lessons A Deadly Adoption taught us about how to be in a Lifetime movie:
Pretend you are a very famous comedic actor who’s teamed up with another very famous comedic actor and the screenwriter responsible for a recent, over-the-top spoof of a different genre for this top-secret pet project. Now totally subvert the audience’s expectations by leaning so far away from broad comedy that you land on "actually kinda dull." If you’re Ferrell, play your character like he thinks he is Frank the Tank but is actually Harold Crick at the beginning of Stranger Than Fiction, before he meets Maggie Gyllenhaal. If you’re Wiig, play all your scenes like you recently consumed a very large dose of Percocet.

Transforming all subtext into actual text is key. The audience might not understand the motivations for your actions, so you should always be sure to state them clearly and concisely. For instance, when you are trying to adopt a child to fix your marriage, you could say, "Maybe another baby will bring the old Robert back." If you’re sitting on a bench staring blankly into space, you could explain to the character who's sharing the scene with you, "I was daydreaming … I do that a lot." And when you and your girlfriend kidnap a 5-year-old girl to extort her parents, whom you think are rich, you could helpfully remind your girlfriend, "I’m in it for the money and nothin’ else." Side note: A Deadly Adoption is a movie in which a "book tour" — for a financial services manual — is a synonym for "orgiastic partying." Interpret that as you will.

You can’t be a character in a spoof of a Lifetime movie without engaging in a series of extremely poor decisions. For instance: when your wife falls off the rotted dock on your property and suffers a miscarriage while pregnant with the second baby you were both so excited for, don’t ever bother fixing the dock; instead, just tell anyone who asks that it’s "off-limits" in as ominous a tone as you can. Want to scam the married guy who accidentally knocked you up once? Instead of blackmailing him by threatening to tell his wife he cheated, cook up a fake personality, pretend to be pregnant, and move in with his family before kidnapping his daughter and then shooting him twice. Also make sure your transition from "saintly pregnant girl" to "evil kidnapper" involves clip-in blonde hair extensions. And if you are a faithful employee of the kidnapped girl’s family, when you happen to see the kidnapper getting into his truck — which the police just asked you if you saw the license plate number of — rather than simply writing down the number, get in your own car, follow the kidnapper into the woods where you are guaranteed to have no cell service, crunch around on the loudest twigs possible outside the kidnapper's lair, and then take a bullet to the face for your troubles.

Big Sugar is the real villain of A Deadly Adoption. More than the crazy-eyed pregnancy-faker who's taken up residence in the Bensons' guest room, the real dangers lie in that unopened box of chocolates in the pantry. Sarah, the good character, owns an organic food stand at the farmers market, where she sells things like refined-sugar-free baked goods. Bridgette, by contrast, shows up at the Bensons' house saying she just had a shake and fries and asking for a big bowl of ice cream, so you know she's up to no good. (Sure enough, Bridgette soon reveals herself to be a crazy, Robert-obsessed grifter named Joni.) The tensest moment comes after Bridgette/Joni and her redneck boyfriend kidnap little diabetic Sully but forget her insulin pump and then try to make her feel better with candy bars. As a bonus, the diabetes plot point also allows for lines like, "You know the dangers of diabetic ketoacidosis!" which are especially impactful when delivered with a totally straight face.

Want your audience to understand that Drama Is Happening? Throw in some slow-motion camera sequences! Watch Sarah fall off the dock …in slow motion. See the flyer Sarah printed with her missing daughter’s picture tumble artistically across the ground … in slow motion. Observe the blood dripping from Robert’s gunshot wound (several minutes after he was actually shot) … in slow motion.

Although, really, this applies to the majority of Lifetime movies:


Write it down!
Every week, a handful of Vox's writers will discuss the second season of True Detective. Before we begin, check out our recap of the season premiere, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date. Joining culture editor Todd VanDerWerff will be deputy culture editor Jen Trolio and more.
Todd VanDerWerff: So I didn't much like the season two premiere of True Detective. In and of itself, this isn't especially remarkable. I was a little more muted on the season one premiere than many other critics (though I certainly thought it was a better episode of TV than this one was), and even behind leaving this specific show entirely, season premieres are tough to execute well. That's the case even when you have returning characters to work with. But in trying to set up a whole new story and a whole new world and a whole new set of characters, series creator Nic Pizzolatto built himself a gigantic mountain to climb. Realistically, "The Western Book of the Dead" was always going to have a lot working against it.

That I believe the episode largely failed doesn't in any way diminish my belief that Pizzolatto could pull out of this skid as season two progresses. I was similarly skeptical early on in season one, and the midsection of that season was some of my favorite TV last year. Many, many shows have aired bad season premieres over the years, and it's perhaps one of the easiest obstacles to overcome in all of TV.
But with that said, this episode's problems ultimately boil down to one, when you really think about it: "The Western Book of the Dead" doesn't have the foggiest clue what story it wants to tell. It features four separate vignettes that we must have faith will intertwine at some point, but it doesn't really bother to make any of those vignettes original or compelling on their own.
Let's break them down, one by one.
Those four stories don't contain anything that doesn't already bubble over with cliché. Now, True Detective is not a series that cares particularly strongly about avoiding cliché on a plot level (season one was ultimately about a serial killer backed by a criminal conspiracy), but it does attempt to achieve something deeper and more nuanced on the level of character study. And that's where "The Western Book of the Dead" falls on its face. None of Pizzolatto's "new" characters are particularly new or nuanced. In season one, you instantly knew so many interesting things about Rust and Marty; that's not the case in season two.
"The Western Book of the Dead" doesn't have the foggiest clue what story it wants to tell
If I were forced to take a stab at the reason for this, I'd say it's that Pizzolatto works without a writers' room. In season one, that was okay, because he'd presumably been mulling the basic bones of Rust and Marty's story for a while. But when forced to come up with something in a hurry for season two, I suspect he fell back on a bunch of tropes viewers know all too well.
True Detective's closest cousin is FX's Fargo, where Noah Hawley writes all of the series' scripts but does work with a small writers' room to plot out the season as a whole. As far we know, Pizzolatto just doesn't do this. And the writers' room, where a bunch of writers work together to top each other and come up with the best stories possible, is where the best (and, admittedly, worst) TV is made. In True Detective's first season, at least, Pizzolatto had director Cary Joji Fukunaga at his side for every episode. Season two doesn't even have that sort of steady presence.
I think that's why the premiere seems to take so long to get going. The scenario it sets up — one case seen through the eyes of people working it from many different angles, with many different agendas — is incredibly promising, but the writer doesn't quite know how to bring everything together. So he tries his best with brute character study, and mostly fails.
Read the recap, and come back tomorrow for more thoughts.
True Detective's season two premiere, "The Western Book of the Dead," is a ridiculous, ridiculous episode of television.
It's so in love with its own self-seriousness that it forgets to tell a story, and by the midpoint of the episode, it had me rolling with its frequently glowering performances and pointlessly weighty dialogue. I've seen two more episodes that are both better than this one (if only marginally so), but this episode marks a new low point for the franchise. It's dumb, dumb, dumb.

But I could tell you that, over and over, for thousands of words, or I could just list the 31 most ridiculous moments of the premiere. I think I'll do the latter.

You had the whole of the Leonard Cohen catalog to work with, and you picked this? An old man growling dark thoughts at length is precisely what people who make fun of True Detective make fun of the show for being, so I guess we're doubling down.
Right away, this episode disabuses you of any notions that this is going to be a season about anything other than a plunge into the heart of darkness. The (redheaded) son Colin Farrell (his character's name is Ray, but it is impossible to refer to him as anything other than "Colin Farrell") drops off at school is revealed to be ... possibly the product of a rape his ex-wife endured. Heavy sigh.
Flames on the side of his face.
HBO
Subtle.
This is actual would-be clever advice Vince Vaughn gives to one of his associates.
Bweee deee dee deeble dee. THUMP THUMP THUMP.
Look! It's a bird head! For some reason!
HBO
Already my favorite character.
Whatever she wants to do in the bedroom, it's way too hardcore for her gentleman caller. Get used to this method of characterization for her.
Ani's sister says this to her after Ani busts her sister working for some sort of online porn hub. What does it even mean?
That's the second woman initially defined via her sexual prowess. For those of you keeping track at home.
The episode clearly intends this clunky bit of dialogue to be a way to show how Kitsch's character (Paul, for the record) has been damaged by his military service. But it's so melodramatic and dumb that it made me laugh.
As delivered by the always-slightly-menacing W. Earl Brown, with Justin Lin's camera leering up at the man, this line might as well be accompanied by a giant flashing neon sign reading "AUTHORITY FIGURES MAY NOT BE AS HONEST AS THEY APPEAR."
The Life-Changing Magic of Decorating Your House With a Skeleton in a Crown.
HBO
The closest thing the episode has to a story is the hunt for the missing city manager, Ben Casper. However, this story doesn't really proceed with any urgency, so writer Nic Pizzolatto throws a bunch of symbolism at the problem. Bound women! Naked, limbless women! A skeleton wearing a crown!
You do you, aging hippie David Morse.
Really, everything about Ani (sorry, Antigone) going to the Panticapaeum Institute to talk with her aging hippie father is just the worst, but something about these two Greek mythology-referencing names right next to each other is a special class of worstness.
So ...
Much ...
Unnecessary exposition!
Pizzolatto's greatest weakness as a writer has always been just having characters state, outright, what's going on in their heads, even when there's no real reason for them to be doing so. The Panticapaeum scene does ... not suggest that problem has been alleviated.
(Also, there are many lines of this episode that sound like the writer addressing the critics of season one. The above definitely qualifies.)
Truly a sage for our times.
HBO
This exchange between Antigone and her father closes out the scene. She means he needs to talk to Athena, but he refuses to judge her for being an online porn star, since that's an outlet of creative expression. Instead, he judges Antigone for being a tool of the man. I mean, I get it, but Jesus.
Much of the back half of the episode is taken up with Farrell trying to figure out why kids are picking on his son, to the point of taking his fancy shoes out of his locker and cutting them up. Farrell jumps immediately to the other kids defecating in his son's shoes. Like you do.
His behavior is meant to indicate that he's lost all grip on his own self-control, but it mostly comes off as a parody of the series' overriding macho aesthetic.
To the episode's credit, Farrell at least notes how ridiculous this name is.
Farrell weeps this into a digital recorder as a way of explaining to his son why he's such an unchecked asshole. I'd call it unnecessary exposition, but I don't even know what it is.
Doesn't it kind of look like it?
HBO
It's later revealed to be part of the scars that cover his body from his time in the military, but the first time you see it, it looks exactly like Jorah Mormont's greyscale scar from this season of Game of Thrones, right down to its placement on his body.
Could he look more uninterested?
HBO
He looks like he's trying to remember the plot of a particularly good NCIS.
This is literally the most boring thing you can do with a professional criminal. This is a story that was boring to our grandparents.
The scene where Farrell tracks down "Ass-pen" and beats the shit out of his dad is another one where I could have just listed everything that happens in it.
Case in point.
And then she broke out her totally awesome cover of the Cardigans' "Lovefool."
HBO
The gloomiest singer-songwriter ever accompanies Farrell and Vaughn's big scene near the episode's end, as they talk about how Farrell has squandered his chances. Then again, should I be surprised the gloomiest singer-songwriter ever exists in the True Detective universe?
Nobody likes somebody nitpicking a fictional portrayal of their profession, but there is no way the Vinci exposé that gets everybody's dander up isn't already completed, vetted, and fully edited. Thus, there's no way Farrell can pull the plug on it by menacing the reporter. At the very least, everybody in the city would have known something was coming and tried to stop it at the reporting stage.
Whatever you say, Vince Vaughn.
Essentially every flaw of the episode stems from this. The episode doesn't have story. It has backstory. The scene that finally unites Farrell, Kitsch, and McAdams occurs only at the very end, after Kitsch stumbles upon the body of the city manager when he goes out for a self-destructive spiral of a moonlit motorcycle ride. Without a story propelling the characters, the episode turns into a miserable wallow, and that makes everything take on the ridiculous sheen it has.
Yes, starting a novel with a lengthy section that just delves into the pasts of the characters could work, because you'd be in their heads, remembering it from their points of view. And you could maybe even start a Netflix series like this, because viewers could just jump to episode two right away.
But a traditionally structured HBO show? Nah.
Good work, Justin Lin.
HBO
Credit where it's due.
Please join me. I'd love for all of us to make sense out of this. Comments will open at 9 am Eastern time Monday morning for you to leave questions, and I will join at noon Eastern to answer!
Kimble v. Marvel Entertainment poses a serious legal and policy question about the ability of patent holders to extract license fees after the expiration of the underlying patent that led to the fees. But it also has to do with Spider-Man merchandise, so Justice Kagan, who wrote the opinion, apparently couldn't restrain herself from cracking a series of comic book jokes:
According to Supreme Court Review, Kagan is an "avid comic book fan" and must have been delighted to score the opportunity to write this decision. That last joke is actually the essence of the case. The Supreme Court is being asked to overturn an earlier precedent, and Kagan is saying that overturning precedents isn't something the Court should do without a very compelling reason. They have a responsibility to provide the country with a predictable, publicly understood code of laws, and that means being restrained in their use of the authority to change things up.
The internet is a cruel place for women, and the only people who might be reasonably surprised by that fact are people who aren't on the internet. In the past couple of years, we've seen this sad truth come to light via the gross threats against women that arose from Gamergate, the celebrity iPhone hack, and, more recently, Reddit's decision to shut down its Fat People Hate forum because of online harassment that ensued.
During Sunday's episode of Last Week Tonight, John Oliver devoted a 16-minute segment to the topic of just how ridiculous, embarrassing, and infuriating the internet has become — and, more importantly, how unsafe and inhospitable it can be for, in Oliver's words, "any woman who makes the mistake of having a thought in her mind, and then vocalizing it online."
"Congratulations on your white penis — because if you have one of those, you probably have a very different experience of the internet," Oliver added.
Over the weekend, Taylor Swift took on the biggest company in the world — and won — in a battle that ultimately reveals how weak the position of Spotify and other streaming music companies really is as they are squeezed between superstar performers and giant platform companies.
The background is Swift's longstanding opposition to free streaming music services paired with Apple's desire to launch a streaming service of its own. Apple's entry into this market, creatively named Apple Music, doesn't have a ton of features that differentiate it from existing competitors such as Spotify. But it does have two big advantages. One is that it will be included on every iPhone, complete with a three-month trial period. The other is that since, unlike Spotify, it doesn't have an unpaid, ad-supported tier, it doesn't violate the terms of Swift's war on free streaming music.
The combination of default presence on phones and Taylor Swift albums don't add up to a particularly innovative, imaginative, or exciting Spotify killer. But you could imagine it working. Except there was one big problem.
Rather than winning Swift over with the lack of a free tier, the specific policies around Apple Music alienated her, and she said 1989 wouldn't be available on Apple Music.
"I’m sure you are aware that Apple Music will be offering a free 3 month trial to anyone who signs up for the service," she blogged on her Tumblr page. "I’m not sure you know that Apple Music will not be paying writers, producers, or artists for those three months. I find it to be shocking, disappointing, and completely unlike this historically progressive and generous company."
Swift claimed not to be acting personally on her own behalf, but rather to be speaking for "the new artist or band that has just released their first single and will not be paid for its success ... the young songwriter who just got his or her first cut."
Over the weekend, this looked like just another spat between a huge music star and the larger forces shaping the industry. But then a remarkable thing happened. Late Sunday night, Eddy Cue, Apple's senior vice president for internet services, tweeted that Swift was right and Apple would change its policy. Apple Music listeners will get a three-month trial period, but royalties will be paid based on listens by non-paying customers.

Apple will always make sure that artist are paid #iTunes #AppleMusic



#AppleMusic will pay artist for streaming, even during customer’s free trial period



#AppleMusic will pay artist for streaming, even during customer’s free trial period


Swift pronounced herself pleased.

I am elated and relieved. Thank you for your words of support today. They listened to us.


Nominally, what happened here is Taylor Swift took on Apple and Apple surrendered. But the real loser is Spotify and other pure-play music streaming services.
The basic issue is that any deal a streaming service can make with artists, Apple can make a better one. If artists want to be on a free service that maximizes audience size, Apple can do that. If artists want to be on a pay-only service that maximizes short-term revenue, Apple can do that. If artists want it to be that songs only play if you're holding your phone in your left hand, Apple can do that too.
What Apple needs out of streaming music is:
Put those two together, and Apple has a reason for iPhone users to become slightly more loyal iPhone users and for iPhone users to become slightly more likely to extend their participation in the Apple ecosystem to ownership of a Mac, iPad, or Watch.
By contrast, for Spotify and Rdio to survive as independent companies, they have to find a way to actually make a profit at some point. That's hard. And when you're competing with a company that doesn't really have this need, you have a very serious problem.
Every week throughout Game of Thrones' fifth season, a handful of Vox's writers have gathered to discuss the latest episode. We'll conclude our discussions for 2015 today. You can check out our recap of the season finale, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date.
Andrew Prokop: Jen, this season has definitely stirred some intense debate. But in the words of Petyr Baelish, "The past is the past. The future is all that's worth discussing." So I'm going to close this year's chat with some speculation on what we might see next time around. And for the first time, book readers like me will be just as in the dark as everyone else.
Well, almost as in the dark. The show is casting for season six right now, and many of its casting calls have already leaked onto the fan website Watchers on the Wall. Though the roles are only described, not named, it looks very likely that some characters book readers are familiar with, like Theon's dangerous uncle Euron Greyjoy and Sam's ruthless father Randyll Tarly, will show up for the first time next year. However, the book material for these characters so far has been mostly setup — which is probably why their introductions have been delayed in the show — so we don't know a ton about what they'll be doing.
Now, there's one hugely important question bearing on what will happen next season — how far away is the show from its ending? George R. R. Martin still has two unfinished books left in the series, which he expects to be gigantic. So if the show's ending is actually close at hand, it will have to move through the remaining events quite quickly to wrap things up anytime soon — which means we should expect major events like Dany's invasion of Westeros and the White Walkers' attack to swallow up much of next season. If the ending is far away, though, then maybe not. (HBO has said they'd love 10 seasons, but showrunners David Benioff and D. B. Weiss have said that their plan is to finish in seven,  though the seventh could be an extended one.)

Daenerys's sojourn with the Dothraki suggests she won't leave for Westeros until midseason at the earliest. (HBO)
As I read some of the leaked casting calls, the next season seems to be incorporating more material from A Feast for Crows, Martin's fourth book out of the five in the series published so far, than I expected. Beyond that, the most recent episode did not in fact end with Dany leaving for Westeros (a change from the books I thought might happen). Instead, it seemed to sideline Dany, and spent several minutes setting up a new plot line where Tyrion would try to rule Meereen, apparently to give him something to do while she's gone. That's not the kind of thing I'd expect Benioff and Weiss to do if they were hurtling toward the finish line. So my impression is that the show definitely isn't going to wrap up in two more normal-length seasons, and that it might be planning for eight overall at this point.
Still, I have to expect that the growing portion of the cast in the east — the most important members of which are Dany, Tyrion, and Arya — will start heading over to Westeros by midseason, and make it there by the season finale or even a bit before. Dany being a prisoner of the Dothraki isn't particularly interesting, and this situation will probably be resolved relatively quickly by the horselords agreeing to be the cavalry for her invasion. Either Tyrion will fix Meereen, or it will be written off as a lost cause, and the march west will begin, and if Dany doesn't make it to Westeros by the end of next season, I'd be quite surprised. Meanwhile, Arya will either abandon the Faceless Men ... or get a very important assassination mission from them that calls on her to go back to Westeros.

Cersei is going to kill a lot of people in season six. (HBO)
Dany's delayed arrival means Westeros will have more time to self-destruct before she gets there — and oh, will it. Already, the look on Cersei's face during her final scene this week — in which Qyburn tells her that the reanimated Gregor Clegane will wipe out all her enemies — promises carnage. And that's before she learns that Ellaria Sand has murdered her daughter. Some sort of three-way conflict between the Lannisters, Tyrells, and Dornish looks certain — Doran Martell certainly won't be able to keep his country out of war this time around. It also seems highly likely that King Tommen won't survive next season — his death has, after all, already been prophesied by a witch. But a lot can happen before Dany arrives. Will she attack King's Landing when it's at its lowest point — or after King Tommen has already been replaced with someone much more effective?
Meanwhile, the North also looks ready for another round of battle. Sansa and Theon have surely survived their leap, and they'll probably meet up with Brienne to escape. But the biggest shoe that hasn't yet dropped in this plot line is Littlefinger's planned attack on the Boltons with the armies of the Vale. I expect Baelish will defeat them, and turn the men of the North against the Boltons, rallying them to Ned Stark's daughter's side. However, Ned's youngest son, Rickon Stark, could complicate this plan. Rickon's been absent since season three — he was sent to hide out with the Umbers, a Northern family — and his return is long overdue (as is that of his wildling protector, Osha).
HBO
He'll be back. He always comes back. (HBO)
Up at the Wall, I definitely expect Jon Snow to come back from the dead through Melisandre's magical help, and probably on the early side in season six. The Wall plotline is too important to be abandoned, and the remaining characters there are too thin to sustain it without Jon, particularly now that Sam has left. Hopefully we'll finally get to see Jon lead the wildling army he was meant to lead. We'll also finally see Bran Stark — missing since the season four finale — again. Benioff has promised that his reappearance will be like that of Luke Skywalker at the beginning of Return of the Jedi, when he had recovered and mastered his powers. The fall of the Wall would certainly be a dramatic note to end the season on.
But as for the most important prediction of all — whether Martin will finish The Winds of Winter before season six starts airing and spoiling huge chunks of it — I know nothing, Jon Snow.
Thanks for joining us! And tune in for our discussion of the second season of True Detective, starting soon.


Previous entry
The roar of Jurassic World's Indominus rex presented a unique challenge for the film's sound designers: they needed something different from the T. rex of the earlier films, but still terrifying.
That's the obstacle presented in this video about Skywalker Sound's work on the record-breaking movie. The solution included a fennec fox.
The video reveals the secrets behind Jurassic World's imaginary sounds, like the roar of the dinosaurs and the Foley design of everything from the computer-generated gyrospheres to the sound of running raptors. The best tricks include:
They captured the sounds by recording them and mixing them together. The sounds of each species vary by animal, so for each species they recorded, the team had to search for the perfect individual creature.
What it looks like to record a lion that will become a dinosaur.
Soundworks Collection
Running like a raptor sounds better than it looks.
Soundworks Collection
So remember this when you rewatch Jurassic World: Indominus rex is part fox, and Chris Pratt is taming the footsteps of a guy running around on wood chips.
Every week throughout Game of Thrones' fifth season, a handful of Vox's writers have gathered to discuss the latest episode. Before we wrap things up for 2015, check out our recap of the season finale, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date.
It's been nearly a week since Game of Thrones' fifth season came to a close with a controversial and overstuffed finale, which means now's the perfect time to look back on all 10 episodes and name the best — and worst — moments. Below, several Vox staffers reveal their picks for highest highs and lowest lows.
Todd VanDerWerff, culture editor: Since I'm first, I get to give the most obvious answers! My favorite moment of season five was easily the entirety of "Hardhome," but if I'm forced to pare that episode down to one scene, it would be the final image of Jon, floating away from the wildling outpost, watching the Night's King raise an army of wights, and realizing how truly and totally screwed he and the rest of humanity are. That moment put the whole show in perspective, and it sharpened and crystallized a sometimes messy season.
Jon and the Night's King face off.
HBO
I think the season's worst moment was the rape of Sansa Stark. There are a great many reasons for this, most of them stemming from how season five could at times feel as if it was forgoing story in favor of an endless string of exploitative and brutal events that didn't add up to a narrative. In spite of the larger problems with the macro story, however, I often liked these moments on their own terms. The sacrifice of Shireen, for instance, worked really well in and of itself; it just didn't really work with everything else that was happening.
Sansa and Ramsay's wedding night was awful to watch.
HBO
But the reason Sansa's rape didn't work for me on any level was that it failed to expand the show's characters or universe. It was a reiteration of the idea that things can be pretty shitty in this world, especially for women, and the only answer to that was to shrug and say, "Yep."
Zack Beauchamp, foreign policy writer: The best moment, without question, was the battle at Hardhome. Not only was it beautifully executed, it also debunked one of the most enduring myths about Game of Thrones: that the show's greatest successes come from its total rejection of epic fantasy tropes.
While it's true that moments like Ned Stark's execution in season one and the Red Wedding in season three are part of what makes the show (and the books) great, Game of Thrones' obsession with trying to replicate those thrills has verged on sadism for sadism's sake. The show needs its moments of transcendence — Daenerys emerging from the fire with baby dragons, Sam discovering that dragonglass can kill White Walkers — to create a real sense of stakes. Setting up an epic battle between humanity and an evil, unstoppable force is exactly the kind of thing that makes the struggle for power in Westeros vital. If the game of thrones is played between vile people like Littlefinger and Roose Bolton, and the fate of humanity isn't at stake, it's very hard to see why you should care.
Is Jon Snow really a goner?
HBO
Which is why my vote for worst moment of season five is Jon Snow's death. Either way it plays out, it's obnoxious. If Jon is permanently dead, as Kit Harington has strongly suggested, then an enormous amount of character work, setup at the Wall, and mythology is utterly wasted. It's really hard to picture what a satisfying endgame would be like without Jon. If he's is revived, most likely by Melisandre, then the death is a cheap cliffhanger. While the books nicely laid a foundation for the political context of the backlash, the show's version was rushed and way less coherent. It's time for Game of Thrones to start retiring its silly shocks and start looking toward an actual resolution.
Andrew Prokop, politics writer: "Hardhome" was cool and all, but I'm going to give my endorsement to one of the most controversial plot lines of the season: Stannis's long march to filicide, defeat, and death. Only in retrospect is it clear how deliberately this setup was woven into the season as a whole — and into past ones as well, going all the way back to season two.
Stannis faces death at the hands of Brienne.
HBO
I think Stannis's fate is best understood as a counterpoint to the downfall of Ned Stark, who died because he was too honorable for this fallen world. Stannis, by contrast, was willing to compromise all his morality to try to win the game of thrones. He believed he was making a clearly rational decision to sacrifice one person for the greater good, but actual moral tradeoffs are rarely so clear-cut, and this one turned out to be a false choice. Rather than winning the Lord of Light's favor, this awful act drove away half his army, spurred his wife to kill herself, and soon led to his own utter failure at Winterfell. Showrunners David Benioff and D. B. Weiss, the true gods of Westeros, were merciless in crafting Stannis's cynical and humiliating downfall — driving home the point that while Ned's approach might not have been a great one, doing the total opposite isn't the best idea either.
Dany and her entourage during the Sons of the Harpy's ambush at the fighting pits.
HBO
And though I had various gripes with this season, there wasn't one particular low point for me. I came away most disappointed that the show missed opportunities to adapt some of the books' best moments. Jon Snow's downfall was hugely different and much less interesting. Dany's storyline featured some extra action but sacrificed character development, placing her at the mercy of events (including, bizarrely, in her final scene, which in the books is a triumphant moment where Dany realizes who she truly is, not a Perils of Pauline cliffhanger where she's captured). The Dorne and Winterfell storylines similarly suffered — where was Doran Martell's secret plan and the burgeoning Northern resistance to the Boltons, two key elements that made those plot lines worthwhile in the books? A Feast for Crows and A Dance With Dragons were always going to be challenging to adapt, but I strongly believe that in several of Benioff and Weiss's adaptation choices, the baby was thrown out with the bathwater.
Matthew Yglesias, executive editor: My favorite moment was very high-stakes, story-wise, though it lacked the stunning visuals of some of this season's other high points — the indictments of Ser Loras and Queen Margaery by the Faith of the Seven:

One thing I love about this scene is that it's packed with actual characters, not just extras. The High Sparrow, Margaery, Loras, Cersei, Olenna, and Tommen all get a piece of the action, and they all reveal something important about themselves. The Sparrow, to me, is the most intriguing character of the whole season, someone who is playing the game of thrones extremely effectively and who appears to be the rarest of all beasts in Westeros — a true believer in something.
Tyene Sand and her poisoned daggers.
HBO
The low point, I think, was the seduction/poisoning/whatever of Bronn at the hands of Tyene Sand. It was poorly staged, awkward, exploitative when I watched it the first time, and, once you know the payoff at the end of the season, boring to boot. The entire Dorne plotline of this season felt like a pointless detour, and this was somehow a pointless detour inside the pointless detour. But boobs! It's not just that it didn't work, it didn't even seem to aspire to anything.
Jen Trolio, deputy culture editor: In the interest of not repeating what everyone else has already said — because duh, "Hardhome" was amazing! — I'd like to recognize a few different moments as high points. The biggest one is probably Cersei's brutal walk of shame; not only was it was tremendously acted by Lena Headey (and her body double), but I'm also eager to see where it sends the character in season six.
Beyond that, season five gifted us with several smaller scenes that deserve shout-outs for their comic relief. Consider Stannis's insistence on the use of correct grammar, even in the tensest of situations:

Or pretty much every time Margaery and Cersei faced off — though I especially enjoyed the scene where Margaery basically called the queen mother a drunk, right to her face.
As for my least favorite elements of season five, I quickly grew bored with a lot of the Meereen/Dany stuff. I know that Dany's a fan favorite, but her story wasn't strong enough this year to warrant the amount of screen time devoted to it. There was just so much debate over those damn fighting pits and so much dawdling on Dany's struggles to rule; Benioff and Weiss definitely could have paced that entire plot line more wisely. Throw in the fact that the Sons of the Harpy essentially came out of nowhere yet somehow operated as an incredibly organized and powerful force, while the Unsullied turned out to be fairly useless in ambush situations, and the entire arc was a bit of a mess.
Read the recap. Come back soon for some predictions on what will happen in season six.
Previous entry
You're probably most familiar with Joseph Gordon-Levitt as a movie actor (unless you're a die-hard 3rd Rock from the Sun fan). One of the most promising talents of his generation, he's starred in great movies both massive (Inception) and tiny (Mysterious Skin). He's putting together the kind of career that any actor would be hugely proud to call his own.
But these days Gordon-Levitt is also a TV host, of a program you may not have heard of but that is nonetheless one of the most unique and unusual shows out there. HitRECord on TV, which airs Friday nights at 10 on the little-known cable channel Pivot, is sourced entirely from footage that's been uploaded to the HitRECord website, which Gordon-Levitt and his brother launched in 2005. Individual clips are patched together into larger works of art, which are then organized by theme and aired as episodes of TV. And Gordon-Levitt often recruits his famous friends (including Mindy Kaling and Anne Hathaway) to bring his collaborators' ideas to life.
For example, in HitRECord's season two premiere, focused on darkness, a song submitted by a young woman in Mission, South Dakota, was performed by several different musicians, who collaborated online to transform a simple tune into something with an epic sweep; they were then joined by even more singers, who gathered in the dark of night (and in the woods, no less) to offer even more aural grandeur.
You can watch the season premiere below. Further episodes are available on Pivot's streaming video site.

Even when it doesn't entirely work (which isn't often), HitRECord boasts an agreeably egalitarian spirit that carries it past any pitfalls. I talked to Gordon-Levitt about the process of creating the show, why he's drawn to artistic collaboration, and more.
This interview has been lightly edited for length and clarity.
Todd VanDerWerff: Who in TV history do you draw your hosting persona from?
Joseph Gordon-Levitt: I don't know! I'm maybe somewhere between Mister Rogers and Orson Welles.
TV: So much of this show is stitched together through collage and getting people to collaborate. You've enjoyed returning to the idea of building something together throughout your career. What is it about that setup that appeals to you?
JGL: To me, making things, whether it's telling stories or singing songs or putting on a show, so much of it is about connecting with other people. In our culture, it's largely become so much about, "Hey, look at me! Look what I'm doing!" But I think that's not necessarily the only way to do it. It can also be, "Hey, what can we do together?" It feels good to me to connect with someone, to make something together, and open it up and see who wants to add to it, who wants to put their own spin on it.
"It feels good to me to connect with someone, to make something together"
I think it's actually probably more natural, as far as the way human beings are social creatures and tell stories together. In the old days, people would gather round the fire and tell stories, and it was more collaborative. Lots of people would chime in, and the next week, when you gathered around the fire, someone else would tell the story but put their own spin on it. It wasn't just about everyone sitting silently while one performer who's the professional tells the story, and everyone just shuts up and listens.
TV: When you first started this project, did you encounter any resistance to the idea?
JGL: It's grown so slowly. The first version of HitRECord, my brother helped me make that website in 2005. The resistance would only come if we got a bunch of funding and exploded it really huge before it really got there on its own. Because we never did that, it's all grown gradually, step by step, and so the people that come and become a part of it are the people who are naturally drawn to it. We never had any marketing campaigns or any blitzes like that.

TV: What's the legal process of getting all of these clips cleared for use in the show?
JGL: When you join our site, we've crafted unique terms of service that allows for this. What it says is you're giving us the right, but the non-exclusive right, to use your contribution in one of our productions, and if that production makes money, we pay you. And that's an important detail. In the last five years since we started HitRECord, we've paid more than a million dollars to different contributing artists.
We like to really be up front with what our terms of service mean. When you come to join our site, there's a video that plays right away of me explaining them in summary terms. That's important, too, because I think most internet companies, they ask you to just check the box. You can go and read it, theoretically, but unless you're a lawyer and very educated about that kind of legal language, there's no way you could ever understand it. A lot of these companies are making money off of people in hidden, secret ways that are not clear. We really try to make a point to not do that, to be very up front: "This is how we are allowed to use your contribution. This is how we are not allowed to use your contribution. This is what happens if money gets made. This is how we will pay you."
TV: What's the process of putting together an episode out of all those pieces when you're editing it? You have so many interchangeable parts at your disposal. How do you curate them?
JGL: It's a big puzzle. It takes a lot of work. The bulk of that work gets done by the community, hundreds of thousands of people from all over the world. But I also have really, really talented editors and producers that are working with me on this show.
"In the last five years, we've paid more than a million dollars to contributing artists"
For season one, I didn't do an acting job, because we were figuring out how to make a TV show like this. Season two, because we had already answered a lot of those questions and because the community was more productive than it was in season one, I was able to go off and do acting jobs while the show was being produced. To me, that's a real tribute to the community growing and evolving and getting better at what we do, and also the people I work with.

TV: Pivot is a cable channel that a lot of people have never heard of. What's been your experience out in the hinterlands of the television universe?
JGL: The important thing to me is that we got to make the show. The truth is, I don't think that would have happened without Pivot's unique courage and modus operandi. Just the legal department of probably any other television network wouldn't let us do what we're doing. But Pivot is run by Jeff Skoll, who's not only in it to try to make money. He made lots of money already. He's in it to try to make a difference. He's in it to try to tell stories that matter and have a positive impact on people. They've been so supportive in letting us make our show.
"If it takes more time for people to find and see it, that's fine with me. I'm not in a hurry."
You can't really greenlight a show in the normal television industry that doesn't follow a formula, where there isn't a precedent. You can't say, "We're going to do it like this other show." We're making a show where there is not a formula. There is no production methodology. There's no template or call sheets. There's nothing like that. The fact that Pivot allowed us to do that is crucial. We wouldn't have been able to do it anywhere else.
Part of that is the fact that they're a new network, and they're young. All networks, when they're young, take some time to build an audience. I don't mind that. I'm perfectly fine, because I'm so proud of what the show is. If it takes more time for people to find it and see it, that's fine with me. I'm not in a hurry.
HitRECord on TV airs Friday nights on Pivot at 10 pm Eastern. You can catch up on Pivot's streaming site or watch clips on YouTube.
For the next several days, several of Vox's writers will discuss the third season of Orange Is the New Black. Before we begin, check out our review of the full season, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date. Joining culture editor Todd VanDerWerff will be culture writer Alex Abad-Santos, deputy culture editor Jen Trolio, and more.
Alex Abad-Santos: I wanted to like Orange Is the New Black's third season so much, but … it is not off to a great start. I've stumbled through the first three episodes, and it feels like I've already watched nine. I've found myself irrationally resenting actresses I never thought I would, missing others, and dreading spending another hour at Litchfield Penitentiary (especially when I could be at SoulCycle).
The thought of slogging through 10 more episodes like the first two and a half — thankfully, there are signs of an uptick toward the end of episode three — is weighing on me. If Orange were a weekly show, I would have dropped out already. But the opportunity to binge-watch makes it feel like more of a commitment, something that's harder to ignore and let fade, because Netflix always reminds you to keep watching. I don't know if my fidelity will ultimately pay off; all of a sudden, binge-watching seems like a chore rather than a perk. But from the first three episodes, I'm kind of dreading whatever might come next.
My disappointment came as a bit of a surprise, since last year around this time I was the Orange's biggest cheerleader. Season two was a fantastic ride, unfurling in ways I didn't expect — Vee's emergence, Red losing her power, Piper not being irritating, Rosa being Rosa, everything about Figueroa. In my mind, Orange ranked first in Netflix's stable of shows. That spot now belongs to Daredevil.
As of its first three episodes, season three lacks the surprise and fire of season two. I understand that it's on purpose, that the show's writers and creator Jenji Kohan are aiming for something gentler this year. After all, season two was one charged emotional peak after another. Season three is where we breathe, right?
But the characters feel more like caricatures than actual people. Piper (Taylor Schilling) is whinier, Nicky (Natasha Lyonne) has more ticks, Red's (Kate Mulgrew) accent has devolved into a snarl, Sophia (Laverne Cox) is one-note sass, and Morello is more delusional. It's as if everyone is worried you don't remember them or where we left off, so the writers picked each character's most notable trait and blew it out of proportion.
As of its first three episodes, season three lacks the surprise and fire of season two
It's like the show forgot what made its second season so good.
Like a haircut at Supercuts, early season three has given me a lot I didn't ask for. It all stems from the Piper and Alex romance. They're making up, making out, breaking up, having problems — just like they did in season one. Their hate sex is probably riveting for some people, but I see every minute of their romance as time robbed from another inmate's story.  And so far, there hasn't been a standout flashback like Rosa's (Barbara Rosenblat), Gloria's (Selenis Leyva), or Taystee's (Danielle Brooks) from season two. I wish the show had saved one of those for this season.
But there's still some hope. I think.
Toward the end of episode three, "Empathy Is a Boner Killer," you start to see flecks of what Orange is now trying to achieve; it becomes clear that these women are not your friends, and that prison is indeed a tough place to live. That fact was a little obscured last year with Vee's relentless oppressiveness drowning out other characters' faults, and the constant power plays.
This season, with more attention, Nicky vies for your resentment, making you glad she's in jail and convincing you that Litchfield might be too kind of a place for her. Her arc is tightly written, and Lyonne turns in an appropriately abrasive, snotty performance.
I'm eager to see how Nicky's circle will respond to her absence. Morello and Soso, both of whom seem particularly cozy in jail, are in for a shock. And Nicky's departure might be the jolt they — and this thus-far brutally middling season — need.
Read our review of season three. Come back soon for more discussion.
Previous entry
In its third season, Hannibal has taken on the task of adapting Thomas Harris's four Hannibal Lecter novels much more freely.
Season three's general setup resembles that of the novel (and subsequent film) Hannibal, in which Lecter eventually disappears to Europe with Clarice Starling, the hero of The Silence of the Lambs. (Early in the novel, Clarice also leads the pursuit of Hannibal, a role that is being fulfilled in this season by Will.)
However, showrunner Bryan Fuller and his writers have reimagined this setup by turning Hannibal's former therapist Bedelia into his co-conspirator and underlining the true horror of her life in his captivity. Where Harris saw a kind of romanticism in Clarice and Hannibal's escape, Fuller and company can only see the grueling terror Bedelia is forced to endure, day after day.
That said, this season is also adapting elements of Hannibal Rising, Harris's fourth Hannibal novel, which serves as a prequel and origin story for the character. Since that's the least popular novel in the series and by far the least seen movie about the character, some fans may wonder, politely, just what the fuck is going on in "Secondo," the third episode of season three. Even for Hannibal, it's particularly stuffed with allusions, half-murmured thoughts, and brief nods toward books many viewers won't have read.
But, really, there are only five major things you need to know.
Chiyoh (Tao Okamoto) makes a great entrance, carrying a gun, seemingly stalking Will through the woods.
NBC
Technically, Chiyoh (played here by Tao Okamoto) appears in Hannibal Rising, but she's much less important than a character named Lady Murasaki, Hannibal's aunt who schools the young, budding serial killer in the art of samurai combat. (Seriously, this is a thing that happens.)
As several episodes of Hannibal have shown us, our title character knows his way around a fight. Murasaki provides a ready-made way for the show to tackle the question of how this debonair sophisticate could possibly be so skilled in hand-to-hand combat. There's just one problem: she's older than Hannibal and trains him in his youth, so adding her to the show as an active force at this point would make her an elderly woman. And while that would be interesting, it would make her much less credible as a potential force to fight back against her former protégé.
In the book, Chiyoh works for Murasaki. And while Okamoto is younger than is wholly believable to play someone from Hannibal's past (given that she's just barely 30 and he hasn't been an active presence in Europe in decades), she's much more credible as someone who could potentially ally with Will than Murasaki might have been. You can read Fuller talk more about adapting the character for TV here.
Also, she makes a really cool entrance when she wanders out into the woods at night with a gun, seemingly stalking Will.
Bedelia slips beneath the surface of the water after sharing her theory.
NBC
A major early section of Hannibal Rising involves the character's sister, Mischa, being eaten by Nazis. Younger than Hannibal, Mischa is intended to represent the goodness and light that disappeared from Hannibal's life after her death, and the bulk of the novel is focused on the young killer stalking the men who ate his sister all across the continent, murdering and eating them himself.
The show has only very slightly referred to Mischa here and there, with the reference to her in "Secondo" (when Bedelia theorizes that Hannibal may have eaten his sister) being the most prominent so far. But the show seems unlikely to directly adapt Mischa being eaten for a couple of reasons.
The first is that Fuller doesn't much like the "cannibal Nazis created Hannibal Lecter" psychology that Hannibal Rising suggests. As he said during his recent interview with me:
I didn't want to over-explain why he became a cannibal and suggest that his nature is as a result of Nazis eating his sister, which feels like a demystification of the character. For us, it was about suggesting certain things in his past that may have complicated who he is but did not inform who he is. He is and always has been Hannibal, but he is not invulnerable to pain and loss.
So that explains how the show is using this part of Hannibal's life. Mischa existed. He lost her (though not to Nazi cannibals). He felt tremendous grief over the loss. But it did not make him the man he is today.
The other practical reason the show may be obscuring what happened is that Mischa's death in the book is specifically positioned as taking place in the crumbling Lithuania that existed at the end of and immediately after World War II. The deserters who eat her are desperate for food, and a young child is the best they can do.
Needless to say, it would be impossible to sell Mads Mikkelsen as someone old enough to remember World War II, so if the show directly adapts this plot line, it will likely shift it to another historical period.
Still, Jack makes a grand entrance, which counts for something.
NBC
The show is slowly filling in the gaps of what happened in the brutal season two finale. Last week, "Primavera" revealed that Will lived and Abigail died; this week, "Secondo" revealed that Jack Crawford survived.
This might seem impressive, as Hannibal stabbed Jack in the neck, and the wound looked very serious. But the character arrives in Florence in "Secondo," then has a few chats with Pazzi. (If Laurence Fishburne's presence seems at all reduced this season, it may be because he's also a semi-regular on the enjoyable ABC sitcom Black-ish.)
What Jack is protected by is something much, much stronger than medical science: he's protected by continuity. Though Fuller is creating what he's frequently called a "DJ mashup" of Harris's novels, he does still adhere to certain details from them. And Jack Crawford is very much alive as of Red Dragon, the first Hannibal novel Harris ever wrote (and the second in the story's timeline, after Hannibal Rising). So his survival seems a bit unsurprising.
Confronted with his freedom, the bearded prisoner seems to simply give up.
NBC
Chiyoh only has Hannibal's word to take on the man being a horrible, horrible murderer who ate Mischa, and when the prisoner is set free, he doesn't seem all that interested in leaving the grand Lithuanian estate, choosing instead to return and wreak havoc.
But really, the man represents nothing more than Will Graham, as so many of the series' murderers have. Having been locked up by Hannibal and having become the ward of Chiyoh for reasons even she doesn't fully understand, the man perfectly represents the way that Will is unable to break free of the hold Hannibal has on him, even though Will hasn't seen Hannibal in months and months. This is what Hannibal Lecter does; he imprisons people with his words, and eventually, once he's done toying with them, he kills them.
However, I don't know why Will ultimately kills the prisoner and transforms him into an elaborate tableau. That seems like something that will resurface in a future episode.
We do, however, know of his grand plans for Will.
NBC
It's possible he's wanted for crimes there, but he's also wanted for crimes in Florence, and that doesn't appear to be stopping him from traveling freely through Italy.
The more likely answer, given the series' psychological bent, is that Hannibal won't return to Lithuania because he doesn't want to face the horrible things that happened to him there. Therefore, if I were to bet on where season three's climactic showdown will take place, I would put very good money on Lithuania.
Previous episode
The lineup of shows that launches Sunday, June 21, on HBO is the most disappointing full lineup the network has ever assembled. It banks heavily on star power, but its three shows mostly fail to tell coherent stories. There are good reasons to watch all of them, but there are also good reasons to skip them.
And that's too bad. This is a trio led, after all, by the second season of the 2014 television sensation True Detective, now with extra Colin Farrell. Brand new series Ballers boasts Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson in his first full-time TV outing since he was a regular over on the WWE. And The Brink, also brand new, has Tim Robbins and Jack Black starring in a would-be Dr. Strangelove act of geopolitical satire.
For any one of these shows to fall flat is a disappointment. For all three of them to fall flat, however, makes it feel like HBO has just written off this summer altogether, particularly after its spring lineup (Game of Thrones into Silicon Valley into Veep) felt so interesting and vital. And since the network is still America's greatest purveyor of quality television, it's even more disappointing to contemplate.
Where did things go wrong? Let's start with the big one.
Vince Vaughn is the heavy in True Detective, season two. Wait! Wait! Come back! He's good!
HBO
The season one finale of True Detective — which closed a sprawling, conspiracy-laden case with a fairly basic "catch the bad guy" chase scene — proved to be an "emperor has no clothes" moment for a lot of people. A series that had been hypnotic and frustrating and gorgeous in equal measure seemed to drop much of what had made it so evocative in neatly wrapping up as many plot lines as possible. (A few months later, its accidental TV cousin Fargo did exactly the same thing.)

Rating
But  the first season of True Detective had always been deeply inconsistent. It wasn't without pleasures — indeed, its central stretch of episodes were among the best television of 2014 — but mesmerizing directing from Cary Joji Fukunaga and deeply affecting acting from Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson more than compensated for some occasionally messy, overly expository writing.
The beauty of True Detective's anthology format, which involves telling a new story with new actors and a new setting every season, is that a disappointing ending to one season can give way to a new setup with far more promise in the next. But the inherent weakness of such a model is that it requires everybody who's involved to be at the top of their games all the time. And since each season welcomes a new team of people, there isn't much time for the kind of gelling among cast and crew that happens gradually over the course of a more traditional TV series' first few seasons.
Season two is definitely a cop drama you have seen many, many times before
True Detective's second season shifts the action from Louisiana to California, where the city manager of a tiny town that's mostly established as a criminal and corporate haven is found murdered — after a lot of prologue — in horrific fashion. Several people, all with different agendas, collide as the ensuing investigation begins, and they slowly find themselves being drawn deeper and deeper into a sprawling and perhaps too-intricate web of conspiracy. Along the way, they'll undoubtedly consider just how hard it is to be a brooding tough guy in today's cultural climate.
All of this is a long preamble to saying that McConaughey, Harrelson, and (most devastatingly) Fukunaga are absent from of True Detective season two; Nic Pizzolatto, the aforementioned occasionally messy and overly expository writer, is the only guy left. And he has unfortunately and perhaps pathologically leaned into some of his greatest weaknesses while eschewing some of season one's greatest strengths.
On the one hand, this is admirable. The promise of True Detective is that it has the option to transform itself into something wildly different with each new season, and Pizzolatto wants to make sure that as little carries over as possible. On the other hand, so much of what made season one so intriguing was linked to the way it played with narrative, the way it created a story that hinted at the supernatural without ever confirming its existence, and the way it focused tightly on the travails of a relationship between its two leading men.
Season two — at least in its first three episodes, which is all HBO sent to critics for review — is just a cop drama. It's an okay cop drama, to be sure, but it's definitely a cop drama you have seen many, many times before. The characters hunt down clues. They interrogate witnesses. They muse about the darkness in the world. They pursue suspects on foot. And they spend lots and lots of time staring into the abyss and hoping it doesn't stare back at them.
As Ani, Rachel McAdams is the best thing about True Detective, season two, so far.
HBO
Once the season gets through its first episode and a half (which amount to an incredibly clumsy 90 minutes of television), it settles into a bit of a groove that does take some chances here and there. There's a batty dream sequence that's particularly brilliant, and the foot chase that closes out episode three will remind viewers how good the show can be at constructing relatively low-stakes action sequences and executing them with panache.
True Detective has always wholeheartedly subscribed to the notion that life is a box of shit-covered chocolates
But the second 90 minutes aren't enough to make up for the first 90, which frequently suggest that Pizzolatto is giving in to all of his own worst impulses. The season opens with a pair of scenes that outline how the main character, Ray (Farrell), might not be the father of his son because his wife was raped, a tragic occurrence that sent Ray on a spiral. The experience eventually cost him his marriage and might now cost him his son, too. A singer-songwriter conveys the gravity of the situation, gloomily intoning, "This is my least favorite life." And then criminal boss Frank (Vince Vaughn) delivers a lengthy, godawful monologue about his childhood after staring at a water stain.
True Detective has always wholeheartedly subscribed to the notion that life is a box of shit-covered chocolates and you're pretty sure what you're going to get. (Hint: it's covered in shit.) But Pizzolatto has generally excelled at embellishing that idea with philosophical discussions and the occasional mordant laugh line. The problem is that his new season two cast too often swallows those lines. Farrell in particular delivers the line, "I support feminism. Mostly by having body issues," as if he were very seriously taking a "How feminist are you?" quiz on BuzzFeed, when it's clearly meant to be a humorous release valve.
Colin Farrell plays the main character of True Detective and swallows some of his best lines.
HBO
Pizzolatto also struggles to offset the loss of Fukunaga, who turned season one into a ghost story where the ghost had been conjured up by society's worst, most deeply buried impulses. The first two episodes of season two are helmed by Fast & Furious director Justin Lin, who imagines Southern California as an endless spiderweb of freeways that cut people off from one another, but he lacks Fukunaga's artsy pizzazz, instead settling for mostly functional TV direction like you might see on any other cop show.
If there's a reason to tune in, it comes in the form of Rachel McAdams as the unfortunately named Antigone "Ani" Bezzerides. At times, Ani feels like a collection of random character traits Pizzolatto threw together in hopes of creating a female character who's stronger than any of season one's, but in McAdams's hands, she slowly becomes the closest thing season two has to a soul.
People keep telling Ani what she is — for instance, she's angry at the world, but mostly at men — as if they're throwing her prompts at an improv comedy show. And McAdams just keeps incorporating them into her vision of the character, because the first rule of improv is to never say no. Ani should be a complete and utter mess of a character, but out of everyone in season two's sprawling cast, she comes the closest to achieving the kind of alchemy between actor and writer that Pizzolatto and McConaughey attained in season one.
There's still a chance that Pizzolatto turns season two into something intriguing. The Southern California landscape isn't as mysterious as the Louisiana bayou, but he's skewed away from spooky supernatural qualities and toward the hushed neo-noir of films like Collateral or even Chinatown, and that could pay off down the road. There's at least one iconic villain haunting the show's edges, and the actors grow more comfortable with every episode.
True Detective, at its best and worst, is a gorgeous but hollow plunge into the depths of man's brutality against man
But the greatest struggle both seasons of True Detective share is that they clearly believe they're doing something far more original and weighty than they actually are. True Detective, at its best and worst, is a gorgeous but hollow plunge into the depths of man's brutality against man, with particular emphasis on the "man" in that phrase.
There's nothing wrong with examining the idea of masculinity, but True Detective too regularly acts as if it's the first TV show to ever stop and consider such a thought. Or, put another way, True Detective's second season might eventually escape the shadow of its first, but it can never entirely escape the fact that it's still True Detective.
Dwayne Johnson deserves so much better than the listless Ballers.
HBO
It makes sense that HBO would want to put Ballers on the air. Set in the world of professional football, the show is the closest thing the network has had to another Entourage in quite some time, even if Johnson, as lead character Spencer Strasmore, spends a surprisingly large amount of his screen time trying to talk people out of partying, because they shouldn't waste their money. Johnson, who is effortlessly charismatic, deserves better.

Rating
A former football player himself, Spencer is keenly aware of the financial and physical hardships that await NFL players once they retire, and he increasingly tries to help those who have exited the league, as well as those who continue to play football. Rob Corddry joins him as the head of a financial advisory company that actively courts Spencer as an employee, and there are some fun actors on the show's sidelines, like Omar Benson Miller as another former football player who's trying to figure out what his next act looks like.
Ballers isn't bad, per se, but it doesn't really try for anything, either. I've watched four episodes, and the most I can say is that it didn't really get me too worked up in one way or another. To be sure, "inoffensively pleasant" is probably the right tone for a comedy aimed at men that airs after the far more intense True Detective, and it's nice to see a show like this populated almost entirely with people of color (though, like True Detective, it doesn't have much room for women in its conception of the universe).
But at the same time, there's very little of anything here. It rolls off your back.
Aasif Mandvi (left) and Jack Black play some wacky guys in The Brink.
HBO
The Brink wants so badly to be Dr. Strangelove that I almost want to pat it on the head and thank it for trying. It really thinks that what the world needs right now is hard-hitting satire about its various geopolitical conflicts, and that's very likely the case. The show — which focuses on a series of misunderstandings that bring the world to the brink (get it?) of nuclear war — ropes in so many potential doomsday scenarios that it can feel like a season of 24 written by the folks behind Veep.

Rating
Would that it were as good as either of those shows! Despite an all-star cast — featuring, in addition to Robbins and Black, John Larroquette, Carla Gugino, and Aasif Mandvi — The Brink's level of satire never really goes beyond "the most obvious jokes you can think of about every possible group of people on the planet," and its political messages essentially boil down to the idea that the end of humanity wouldn't be that cool.
There are funny moments scattered throughout, but by and large, The Brink aims to filter the satire of Strangelove through the tone of Family Guy, where there's no joke so obvious that it can't be made even more obvious. It's a show that considers itself quite daring for even existing, and as with the shows that lead into it, that proves a recipe for disaster.
True Detective, Ballers, and The Brink debut Sunday, June 21, at 9 pm, 10 pm, and 10:30 pm Eastern, respectively, on HBO, HBO Now, and HBO Go.
If you decide to see Pixar's Inside Out — and you absolutely should — see it in 3D. Not only is the film brilliant in three dimensions, but the format brings with it an additional perk: no one can see you crying behind 3D glasses.
Rating
Pixar could teach a graduate-level course in making grown adults weep at animated children's movies. In 2008, WALL-E made me shed tears when EVE tried to piece the tiny robot back together. I can't even talk about 2009's Up without thinking of that montage, while 2010's Toy Story 3 had that gut-wrenching moment when all the toys hold hands. And the tradition continues this summer with the release of Peter Docter and Ronaldo Del Carmen's Inside Out — the studio's most thoughtful and ambitious film to date.
"You need me to be happy," says 11-year-old Riley (Kaitlyn Dias), the movie's precocious  protagonist, during one of the film's most poignant scenes. She's talking to her parents, who have moved the family from bucolic Minnesota to the intimidating city of San Francisco.
"But," Riley continues, hesitating. Her voice cracks before she can finish.
That emotional fissure in Riley's psyche is where Inside Out lives, as Docter and Del Carmen (who co-directed and co-wrote the film with Meg LeFauve and Josh Cooley) explore universal feelings like joy and sadness, boil them down to their elemental cores, personify them, and invite us to see how they shape us and the people we love, one memory at a time.
Attempting to anthropomorphize human thought and emotion is a daunting, conceptually challenging task. It would've been easy for any of Pixar's past films to crumple under the weight of such a heavy objective without cute robots, earnest cowboys, squirrel-chasing dogs, and rainbow-hued balloons to lighten things up. But Inside Out feels different. The movie flies on the wings of an almost too-real message — that sadness is an inevitable and necessary part of life. And yet again, Pixar soars.
Inside Out is as beautiful as it is abstract, as daring as it is intelligent. It's also the best movie of 2015 so far.

The voices inside our heads. (Pixar/Disney)
Though Riley is the heroine we're rooting for, she's basically a human Voltron. Her actions are guided by five emotions: the buttercream gumdrop Joy (Amy Poehler); the baggy blue dollop Sadness (Phyllis Smith, a.k.a. Phyllis from The Office); the petulant and red-faced Anger (Lewis Black); the snotty green Disgust (Mindy Kaling); and the skinny, purple-skinned Fear (Bill Hader). These five primary feelings work in unison to make each and every one of Riley's decisions — decisions that keep her safe, help her meet new friends, and do everything from scoring hockey goals to judging new experiences.
Because Riley is a kid who has yet to experience such grown-up rites and responsibilities as heartbreak and paying taxes, Joy has always been the leader of Riley's feelings, creating plenty of memories imbued with the cozy warmth of unfiltered happiness. But the cross-country move has shaken things up for the team and inspired Sadness to step into a more proactive role, causing tension with Joy and kick-starting an emotional adventure inside Riley's mind.
Within the confines of Riley's brain, Inside Out does a hefty amount world-building, all of it stunning. The five emotions operate a control panel fit for a spaceship. There's plenty of Disney whimsy, in that everything looks sugar-spun and edible. The humor is sharp and adult-friendly (Riley's dreams are filmed in an unnamed studio I wish was called "DreamWorks"), and abstract concepts are presented clearly, with help from elements of modern-day tech. For instance, memories are like Vines, and can be fast-forwarded or rewound and watched over and over. Everything comes together in a way that's easy for viewers of all ages to grasp and understand. And it all lies atop the foundation of Inside Out's grand design: the idea that our emotions dictate our memories, which in turn dictate who we are.
Inside Out's humor comes from watching the five emotions wrestle for control, and witnessing how their actions and arguments change Riley's behavior or personality. There's an entertaining aural ping-pong and rhythm that arises as Poehler, Hader, Black, Kaling, and Smith trade jokes. It's human nature to want to be happy, to want everything in our lives to remain joyous, and Poehler as Joy is an expertly tailored fit. Her voice is coated in earnestness and indomitable optimism. She can also be very annoying — just as you might expect from someone who tries to find glee in every millisecond of every moment of every waking minute.
As a result, Inside Out features several Joy-filled scenes where you'll find yourself yearning for Smith's mopey Sadness or Kaling's tweenage Disgust. The movie makes excellent use of its strong voice ensemble, and that's a testament to the impressive storytelling at work.

Riley and her parents. (Pixar/Disney)
Though Inside Out contains moments of pure comedy and its exquisite design is insidiously imaginative, the film's focus is more knotty and somber. Beneath the glimmer and one-liners is a clear-eyed attempt to depict the full spectrum of human emotion, to urge viewers to accept that aching, sad life experiences are as inevitable as they as valuable.
Some of its lessons are undeniably mature, and may not resonate with younger kids. Compared with Toy Story or Finding Nemo — two moving yet playful movies about growing up and the importance of family — Inside Out feels more adult, more willing to explore the dark crags of what unhappiness feels like. Indeed, relative to Disney's plethora of fairy tales, Inside Out sometimes makes it seem like Pixar is pounding its chest and shouting, "Bullshit!" into the abyss that is "happily ever after."
It may surprise you to learn, then, that the most impactful character of the movie isn't Joy, or Riley, or even Sadness. That honor goes to Bing Bong (Richard Kind), Riley's imaginary friend who's a strange amalgam of an elephant, a cat, candy, and a dolphin. He's lost among Riley's millions of memories, unaware that she's outgrown him.
"Who's your friend who likes to play? Bing Bong. Bing Bong," he sings with an off-key tootle and a smile. But it's slyly obvious to everyone except Bing Bong that he might be the only one who still remembers the song. Bing Bong also delivers a stark message to parents: childhood innocence is precious and will inevitably disintegrate, but it's also necessary.
Inside Out is about relishing the present, remembering to be grateful, and appreciating all the splendid things about the small moments of our lives. It also wants us to understand that treasuring these moments makes us vulnerable. It's a simple but powerful musing on human nature offered up in the bubblegum world of a film. And while Inside Out may not necessarily the most outright fun film Pixar has made, it is without a doubt the studio's best.
Every week throughout season five, a handful of Vox's writers will discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones. Before you dig in, check out our recap of the season finale, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date. This week, we'll be hearing from culture editor Todd VanDerWerff, deputy culture editor Jen Trolio, politics writer Andrew Prokop, and executive editor Matthew Yglesias. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Andrew Prokop: Matt, after Game of Thrones’ season five finale, I kept thinking of Todd’s criticism from a few weeks back — that showrunners David Benioff and D. B. Weiss have become increasingly reliant on delivering shocking "moments," but are failing to properly set them up or explore their aftermaths. This, I think, perfectly describes why I was so underwhelmed by the finale's most shocking moment of all: the killing of Jon Snow.
Because, in an attempt to drastically simplify the Wall plotline, the show has eliminated the key feature that made this climactic moment so interesting in the books — namely, that Jon Snow really does break his oaths to the Night's Watch, which makes the attack on him far more justifiable.
The rationale and setup for Jon's murder in the finale were quite simple: Jon had let the wildlings come south of the Wall. The Night’s Watch men don't like the wildlings. So they decided Jon was a "traitor," lured him outside, and stabbed him.
Importantly, Game of Thrones is unambiguous in presenting Jon's decision to let the wildlings through as the correct one. It’s both the humanitarian choice (thousands of them would have died otherwise) and the practical choice (all those corpses would have been added to the White Walkers’ army). Meanwhile, the members of the Night's Watch can't see that, because they're bigoted and shortsighted. They're also treacherous, having ruthlessly decided to eliminate Jon one night without any specific provocation. In short, Jon is good and his Night's Watch brethren are evil.
In the books, Jon must choose — does he surrender his sister to Ramsay Bolton, or does he fight back?
This all makes for a reasonably entertaining morality play, but Jon's downfall in the books is both far more compelling and far more moving.
After Jon brings the wildlings south in A Dance With Dragons, he suddenly receives a threatening and taunting letter, apparently from Ramsay Bolton. Ramsay claims to have triumphed in battle against Stannis and killed him. But Ramsay's bride — who Jon thinks is his sister Arya — has escaped, due to a plot Jon hatched. Ramsay demands that Jon hand her and several other hostages over to him, or die.
The escaped girl (who, Jon is unaware, isn't actually Arya) hasn't yet arrived at the Wall, but from Jon's perspective, he is faced with a key decision. When he swore his vows to the Night's Watch, he was supposed to leave his family behind and not interfere with the politics of Westeros. Now he must choose — does he surrender his sister to a cruel monster, or does he fight back?
Jon opts to fight. He announces that he'll leave the Wall and ride south to attack Ramsay. And he rallies the wildlings to his side, to serve as his army.
The show was too afraid to make Jon an oathbreaker
It's a genuinely stunning sequence of events where everything seems to be spinning out of control. And it's a crucial turning point in Jon's character development — it's where he crosses the Rubicon.
Jon's decision to attack the Boltons is a violation of the Night's Watch's neutrality. "No man can ever say I made my brothers break their vows," Jon thinks. "If this is oathbreaking, the crime is mine and mine alone." But it's also a perfectly understandable decision. Ramsay is an evil monster, and we want to see him taken down, while Jon is a genuinely good person who wants to help people. Plus, could we really still cheer for a hero who knowingly put his sister back into Ramsay's hands, rather than trying to help her?
Still, from the perspective of the Night's Watch men, Jon's actions are treasonous. Jon has resolved to attack Westeros with his own wildling army. He has betrayed his oath, for his own personal reasons. He couldn't leave his family ties behind for the greater good, like he swore to.
In the books, many members of the Night's Watch are genuinely shortsighted and bigoted, just as they are on the show. However, they believe they at least tried to give Jon the benefit of the doubt, and that he forced their hands. So they kill him before he can march south, saying they're doing it "for the Watch." It's a tragic moment — their decision seems likely to be a terrible mistake — but one that feels completely earned.
When it comes to adapting the books, I'm not a purist. I completely expect the TV show to change and simplify things. But it annoys me when the show keeps a shocking moment but strips it of its essence and meaning for the characters involved. Game of Thrones did that here, and what ended up on screen rang hollow.
Overall, it seems the showrunners were too afraid to portray Jon as an oath-breaker. Instead, they wanted to keep him noble, a pure hero betrayed by black-hearted goons who simply couldn't see the big picture. They preferred to tell us what to think and whom to side with, rather than let us decide for ourselves. The result is that the show's Jon is a much less interesting character, and that his death scene is much less powerful.
Read the recap. Come back soon for more discussion.
Previous entry

After Jon Stewart announced he was leaving The Daily Show, seemingly every famous comedian on the planet was discussed as a potential replacement. Though the little-known Trevor Noah ultimately got the job, it turns out the blue-sky dreams of having Chris Rock or Amy Poehler take over Comedy Central's flagship program were dreams the network shared, at least briefly.
In an excellent profile of Comedy Central's creative renaissance and struggles to navigate the new TV economy, Jonah Weiner writes for the New York Times Magazine that one of the two almost signed on.
Writes Weiner:
Comedy Central contemplated hiring several bigger stars. The network made a call to Amy Poehler, for instance, to gauge her interest. (As someone outside the company with knowledge of the exchange put it, "They were pretty much expecting her to say no, and it was the quickest no in history.") Chris Rock considered signing on, but not past Nov. 8, 2016: He wanted to cede the desk to a more permanent replacement after the next election. [Head of original programming Kent Alterman] acknowledged that Comedy Central had a lot of conversations with different people," but Noah, who had appeared several times on The Daily Show, was a favorite of Stewart's, and he won the network over. "Trevor's the only person we made an offer to," Alterman said.
The thought of a Chris Rock–hosted Daily Show, even if only for a year, seems almost too good to be true. That it apparently was a thing that very nearly happened only ignites the imagination further.
Stewart leaves The Daily Show on August 6, 2015. Noah's first show will air September 28, 2015.
Be sure to read Weiner's piece for so much more on Comedy Central's recent boom, including an account of how Charlie Sheen almost derailed Amy Schumer's currently skyrocketing career.
For several years, Williams frequently told a story, often to talk show hosts, about a time when a helicopter he was flying in was hit by RPG fire in Iraq in 2003. The helicopter, he said, was forced to land. He repeated this account to, among others, David Letterman, Alec Baldwin (on Baldwin's WNYC radio show), and the audience at a January 30, 2015, New York Rangers hockey game.
It was that last occurrence (part of a tribute to a retired soldier) that proved his undoing. The military newspaper Stars and Stripes looked into Williams's story and found that it was almost completely false. Williams had been in a helicopter that landed during the war, and he had spent several days in the desert. But the helicopter had not been hit by enemy fire. Instead, one of the other helicopters it was traveling with had been hit, and it was the other helicopter that was forced to land.

Williams claimed he had simply conflated events in his mind and become mistaken about what had actually happened on that day, but the damage to his reputation was swift and brutal. By February 10, 2015, Williams had been suspended for six months without pay, with Holt replacing him in the Nightly News anchor's chair.
It appears that Williams's helicopter story isn't the only time he's lied or stretched the truth. In particular, discrepancies were found in his recollections of the time he spent in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina.
The New York Times reports that NBC identified several additional instances of falsehoods and fabrication, though these have not yet been made public.
Wrote Emily Steel, John Koblin, and Ravi Somaiya for the Times:
Almost immediately after the controversy erupted, NBC opened an investigation into Mr. Williams, led by Richard Esposito, the senior executive producer for investigations. Over the last several months, it uncovered 10 to 12 instances in which he was thought to have exaggerated or fabricated accounts of his reporting, according to people familiar with the inquiry.
The likely reason it took NBC so long to decide what to do about Williams is that he was so very successful. Under his watch, the Nightly News was consistently the top-rated newscast in broadcast television, pulling in just under 10 million viewers a night. He had also signed a $50 million contract with NBC shortly prior to the controversy.
Reports the Hollywood Reporter:
Sources say that throughout the negotiations Williams expressed a strong desire to regain his old job at Nightly News, where he was also managing editor. And Lack, who has maintained a friendship with Williams and other NBC News stars, had repeated and tough face-to-face meetings with Williams during which he let the anchor know that that scenario was unlikely. A sticking point during the talks was Williams' reluctance to express an full-throated apology, something both Lack and Burke insisted upon, say sources. An aggravating factor in Williams' path to return has been his pointed lack of support among the rank-and-file at NBC News. Meanwhile Lack had continually reassured staffers that his first responsibility was to the news division as a whole.
Williams's extreme popularity in network news led to several appearances by the anchor on talk shows and comedy programs. He was a recurring guest on The Daily Show With Jon Stewart and popped up several times on 30 Rock, Tina Fey's sitcom set within a fictional version of NBC.

In one regard, NBC hasn't had much to worry about in Williams's absence. Holt's ratings, though lower than Williams's, haven't tumbled precipitously from the numbers Williams was earning before he was suspended, and NBC remains narrowly ahead of second-place ABC in the evening news ratings race.
In taking over the NBC Nightly News, Holt is also making history. He will be the first solo, full-time black anchor of a network newscast.
Going from NBC to MSNBC reverses the move Williams made when he replaced Tom Brokaw on the parent network in 2004. Williams had previously been central to NBC's cable news arm, where he anchored the program The News With Brian Williams and was groomed to take over for Brokaw. Here he is presenting a 2002 story about an unusual Atlanta snowstorm:

While a position at MSNBC might not be what some of Williams's most ardent detractors wanted for the anchor, it is something of a demotion. Anchoring a major broadcast network's evening news program is the most prestigious job in TV journalism. After all, there are only three network news anchors at any given time.
However, the power of the evening news as a cultural force has waned in recent years — especially among younger viewers, who are more likely to get their news from other sources. Network newscasts simply don't carry the cachet they once did, and even if Williams's ratings were the best in TV, they were a far cry from viewership even 10 years ago.
Plus, it's not clear Williams can bounce back from this incident. Writes The Hollywood Reporter:
Staffers at NBC News expressed incredulity that Williams can ever repair his career. And many point out that his new job at MSNBC seems to involve the skills he never did master including reporting and live anchoring.
As if from nowhere, Jurassic World stormed the box office in its opening weekend, setting new records for both domestic (US and Canada) and worldwide earnings.
Though the film was expected to make an estimated $125 million in its first three days — no small figure — it very quickly blew past that estimate on its way to becoming only the second movie ever to score $200 million in one weekend in domestic box office sales alone. Once the rest of the world was factored in, it topped $500 million.

But why did this happen? And what does it mean for Hollywood? Dinosaurs have always been popular — but now they're as big as Marvel superheroes. And the implications of that growth are enormous.
Bryce Dallas Howard's career-obsessed character would be very pleased to hear about this success.
Universal
Universal (which released the film) initially estimated that Jurassic World would fall just short of the opening weekend record set by The Avengers ($207 million) in 2012. But the final numbers told a different tale: after earning $208.8 million in just three days (plus a few Thursday night screenings), Jurassic World is the new champion.
This is significant, as many people believed The Avengers wouldn't be topped for a long time after its own sequel, Avengers: Age of Ultron, opened this past May with "just" $191 million — now the third-best opening in history.
Marvel's Kevin Feige congratulated the new champ on Twitter.

Congrats Mr. Spielberg @UniversalPics @Legendary @LeDoctor @colintrevorrow and especially @prattprattpratt pic.twitter.com/5DxlDM8pgK


To put this in perspective, let's take a look at the film industry's top five domestic openings ever, paying special attention to how few movies have come close to challenging either Jurassic World or The Avengers:
Todd VanDerWerff/Vox
The common lament here is that ticket prices have grown so hyper-inflated over time that they've rendered box office stats meaningless — especially since the addition of 3D surcharges to box office totals. And while that argument has some validity to it, the common conception of why it's the case is incorrect.
For instance, only 48 percent of Jurassic World's box office was boosted by 3D tickets, which is a hefty percentage but not as huge as you might think. As Indiewire's Tom Brueggemann reports, the film now boasts the third-most attended opening weekend in history in terms of raw ticket sales, and the vast majority of the films it's competing against also carry a substantial 3D box office of their own.
But what about inflation? Truth be told, it's not a factor. Here's how the opening weekends for the first three Jurassic Park movies stack up to Jurassic World's when adjusted for inflation:
Todd VanDerWerff/Vox
None of them even come close. Indeed, Jurassic World's first-weekend earnings nearly triple Jurassic Park's.
What has changed over time, however, is just how much a film's total box office earnings for its entire theatrical run are driven by its opening weekend. Back in 1993, Jurassic Park ended up making $357 million after a $47 million opening weekend. That's a multiplier — the total box office, divided by the opening weekend box office — of 7.6. If Jurassic World were to somehow manage that feat, it would make $1.58 billion in the US alone. But it won't happen.
The reason? These days, a much greater proportion of a movie's overall box office tally is weighted toward its opening weekend. That wasn't the case in 1993, when home video releases took longer to arrive and films stayed in theaters longer. Jurassic Park was still playing in some theaters well into the fall of 1994, a run that would be unthinkable today.
Look at the below chart to see how the opening weekend (in red) has gradually crept up to become a greater and greater part of a film's total box office.
Javier Zarracina/Vox
If Jurassic World performs similarly to The Dark Knight, then it could cross the $700 million mark domestically.
Warner Bros.
How much money will Jurassic World ultimately make? It's impossible to tell, but that doesn't mean we can't make some guesses. The closest comparison point is The Avengers, which ultimately banked $623 million domestically after a huge opening; that's a multiplier of just barely over 3. If Jurassic World attains the same success, it will make $624 million. (Avengers made $1.5 billion worldwide, but in an era when several territories were just beginning to distribute American films more widely. Jurassic World should easily surpass that number.)
However, Jurassic World has far less wiggle room than The Avengers did. The Avengers debuted in early May and had a whole summer to play with. Jurassic World didn't launch until mid-June (a six-week loss), and will begin competing against several other would-be blockbusters in just a few weeks. But the film's late start is also a possible advantage. With school no longer in session, kids can take in weekday screenings. Indeed, the film's first Monday earnings set a new record for a non-holiday Monday, with $25.3 million. That's a terrific number.

Jurassic World also lacks newness. When Avengers came out, nothing like it had ever been attempted — but Jurassic World is the fourth film in a franchise that has otherwise lain dormant since 2001. A lot of people who saw The Avengers out of curiosity might've already made up their minds about Jurassic World based on what they knew of the franchise already.
We'll know more after the film's second weekend, but for now, a multiplier between 2.5 and 2.75 seems like a safe bet, based on typical modern blockbuster multipliers. That would put the final domestic total somewhere between $520 and $572 million.
However, the film from which Jurassic World stole the non-holiday Monday crown was 2008's The Dark Knight, which had many of the same disadvantages as Jurassic World and still posted a 3.4 multiplier. If Jurassic World can achieve the same feat, it will make $709.9 million, becoming only the second film in history (after Avatar) to clear $700 million domestically. If $520 million is the floor, then just north of $700 million might be Jurassic World's ceiling.
A fun box office trivia note: it will be very difficult for Pixar's Inside Out, which launches June 19, to top Jurassic World's second weekend, but it should perform well enough to set a new record for the biggest domestic opening weekend without taking the top spot. (In other words, it will likely open with a whole lot of money, but not enough to overtake the first-place movie.) The current record-holder in that category is 2004's The Day After Tomorrow, which made $68.7 million in its first three days, not enough to overtake then first-place film Shrek 2.
After his major success in Guardians of the Galaxy, Universal chose to sell Jurassic World almost entirely on the back of Chris Pratt. It worked.
Marvel Studios
While Jurassic World's box office domination surprised almost everyone who follows this sort of thing, hype for the film had been building for weeks — it's just that no one realized how much there really was. All in all, Jurassic World benefited from a number of different factors.
The timing of Jurassic World's release was key: Above all else, Jurassic World got lucky because of the calendar. The last blockbuster to open was Avengers: Age of Ultron on May 1, and while several modest hits have debuted since then, the box office hasn't seen a single other film top $200 million. Plus, potential megahits like Tomorrowland ultimately struggled to make an impression. People were craving a big summer movie, and only Jurassic World really fit the bill.
Jurassic World is different, but not too different: Recent box office champs have largely been either comic book movies or adaptations of young adult novels. But both 2014's Mockingjay — Part 1 (the latest Hunger Games film) and 2015's Avengers: Age of Ultron have fallen a bit short of expectations. Granted, said expectations may have been too lofty to begin with, but the perception persists. Perhaps the audience, as the thinking goes, is looking for something outside of those two genres — in which case Jurassic World is a perfect fit. But it's also not so different as to be alienating. People know exactly what they're going to get.
The Jurassic Park franchise has always been popular: The first two Jurassic Park films set opening-weekend records, and even the much-reviled Jurassic Park III managed to rake in more than $180 million in 2001. The nice long break between Jurassic Park III and Jurassic World allowed both nostalgia for the franchise and anticipation for the new film to build, and gave box office analysts plenty of time to forget what a monster performer the original trilogy was. Jurassic World also enjoyed a minor bump from half-pretending the second and third films didn't exist, though this may not have been creatively optimal, as Screencrush's Matt Singer notes.
Jurassic World's marketing campaign smartly focused on the movie at hand: The press tour for Jurassic World didn't spend lots of time focusing on future Jurassic movies, as Forbes's Scott Mendelson pointed out. It didn't involve teasing an expanded dinosaur universe. Universal's promotion of the movie was ubiquitous, yes, but it never felt quite so in-your-face as some of Marvel's campaigns have. That allowed Jurassic World to seem like an underdog, at least as much as a movie about dinosaurs eating people can seem like an underdog.
Everybody loves Chris Pratt: The entire cast of Jurassic World is solid — even Bryce Dallas Howard, whose character is impossible to play. But Universal chose to sell Jurassic World with Pratt as its central hero after 2014's Guardians of the Galaxy became such a big hit. What's fascinating is that Pratt isn't even the true protagonist of the film; it's Howard's character (who goes from being obsessed with her job to feeling more maternal, an arc that has drawn criticism for being sexist) who has the much more traditional storyline. Pratt's character pretty much remains the same throughout the whole movie, and the actor clearly struggles with the part. (It's his weakest big-screen work to date.) But Pratt is much loved on the press circuit, and he's always a charming presence onscreen.
Get ready for so many more Chris Pratt vehicles, America!
Universal
Obviously, the biggest beneficiaries of Jurassic World's massive success are the executives at Universal, who are on an incredible hot streak right now. In 2015 alone, they've released 50 Shades of Grey, Furious 7, Pitch Perfect 2, and now Jurassic World, all massively successful hits. But there are three other parties who will benefit:
More work for Chris Pratt: If Guardians had him riding high, then Jurassic has solidified him as the hottest up-and-coming actor out there — sort of the male equivalent of Jennifer Lawrence. (Conveniently, the two will soon be starring together in a sci-fi romance called Passengers.) It's rumored that Pratt is in the running for a new Indiana Jones movie, and if he has any passion projects he'd like to try winning an Oscar for, now is exactly the time to explore that path. There will come a time when people get tired of Pratt — it always happens, eventually — but that time is far, far away.
More opportunities for indie directors: Colin Trevorrow, director of Jurassic World, built his reputation on the quirky Sundance comedy Safety Not Guaranteed, which managed to tell a time-travel story on an independent film budget. Giving him a blockbuster budget was a big leap of faith on Universal's part, but it clearly paid off. Jurassic World is far from perfect, but it builds to a satisfying ending, and Trevorrow has proved himself more than capable of staging big dinosaur action. His success will only embolden studios to hire interesting indie directors and put them on big, franchise films, though that approach has misfired (Marc Webb's The Amazing Spider-Man films) as often as it has succeeded (Gareth Edwards's 2014 Godzilla remake).
More '90s nostalgia: Around the middle of every decade, Hollywood suddenly realizes that the pop culture of 20 years ago will now appeal to people in their late 20s and 30s, who are in their prime years as consumers — and who just might have kids of their own to share their favorite properties with. And sure enough, right on schedule, the onslaught of '90s nostalgia projects has already begun, with Jurassic World's behemoth box office offering a vote of confidence to other potential sequels and remakes. There aren't a ton of '90s-driven films on the docket right now, but 2016's Independence Day 2 should be telling. If that sequel to the 1996 original does well, Hollywood will almost certainly open the floodgates and develop brand new entries in other '90s franchises, like Speed, The Matrix, and Forrest Gump. (Don't laugh at that last one. A sequel was almost made in 2001, and it could very easily be revived.)
Bring back the original cast!
Getty Images
Of course there will be more Jurassic films. Universal will almost certainly be making sequels to Jurassic World, and Pratt is reportedly signed on to star, though Trevorrow has said he will not be returning.
The next step for Universal should be an obvious one — hire Sam Neill, Laura Dern, and Jeff Goldblum to star in the next sequel and unite the two generations of Jurassic casts in one giant dinosaur roundup. Who wouldn't want to see that?
Though they both center on a certain caped crusader, Christopher Nolan's Batman Begins (2005) and Joel Schumacher's Batman Forever (1995) couldn't be more different. One is regarded as a cinematic treasure; the other is viewed as beautiful, colorful garbage. One did wonders for Christian Bale's career; the other sunk Val Kilmer's. One set the table for the greatest superhero movie ever made, and the other spawned a sequel that essentially killed Batman.
One of the few things these two disparate films have in common, however, is what they did for superhero movies. Both changed the genre, the way Hollywood visualized comic book stories, and what we thought we knew about Batman. And while Batman Begins earned more critical acclaim, Batman Forever was just as influential in altering Batman lore.
This week, Begins turns 10 years old; last week, Forever turned 20. Looking back at these two movies on their birthdays undoubtedly reveals a lot about Batman and his cultural impact over time, but the films also reflect the evolution of our own desires, our own tastes, and, ultimately, what Batman means to us.
Batman Forever was the strange, knee-jerk reaction to what's largely considered one of the better Batman stories ever told on screen, Tim Burton's Batman Returns (1992). Returns had a spooky, languid quality to it. The image of Penguin's (Danny DeVito) death scene is still burned into my brain, complete with its dripping black ooze, as is Christopher Walken's mannequin-esque villain Max Shreck. And Returns' greatest gift might have been Michelle Pfeiffer's Catwoman, an iteration of the character that set the bar for female supervillains in cinema.
But movie executives actually wrote off Burton's dark tale as a box office disappointment, despite its earnings of $160 million in domestic gross. The thinking was that the film's unnerving premise was a turnoff to viewers; according to Mark Reinhart's The Batman Filmography, Warner Bros. was convinced it needed to make Batman fun and audience-friendly again.
The "fun" began with a director shake-up prior to Batman Forever, with the studio trading Burton and his macabre grimness for Schumacher's shimmering razzle-dazzle. Schumacher was the cinematic version of Lisa Frank, completely obsessed with cramming every scene full of neon and sparkles; his villains — Two-Face (Tommy Lee Jones) and the Riddler (Jim Carrey) were draped in pinks, oranges, and greens:
(Warner Bros.)
Forever's Riddler and Two-Face were clowns compared to Returns' Catwoman and Penguin. Any true menace they might have possessed was belied by their costumes, their vamp and camp. You never really understood the logic or motives behind their characters, nor did Schumacher help viewers understand what was driving Batman. Everyone seemed like a bit player in the director's fluorescent fever dream.
Though critics panned Forever (the movie ranks 41 percent rotten on Rotten Tomatoes), it made about $20 million more than Returns, giving executives proof that making Batman more "fun" was a profitable enterprise.
But Forever didn't exist in a vacuum. It begat Batman & Robin (1997), another Schumacher acid trip — and another critically planned flop. The movie was awash with searing color, an irascible taunt aimed directly at your eyes:

All told, Schumacher and Burton's respective Gothams felt like two different worlds. Burton's was probably more in line with Nolan's eventual vision, but even if Burton had stayed with the franchise, I don't think he would've ever gotten us anywhere near Nolan's works. Plus, it's possible that Nolan's films wouldn't have been made if Burton had continued traveling the route he was on.
Instead, the backlash to Schumacher's glittery approach to Batman might have been the best thing that could've happened to the character. Batman & Robin made less money than Forever and was also critically eviscerated. It was evidence that Forever had been a fluke, and it gave studio execs and fans alike a crystalline sense of what they didn't want Batman to be. But it would still be a few more years until someone — Nolan — would figure out what viewers wanted from Batman.
Whoa. Mystique got stabbed. (Fox)
The decline of kicky, flashy, superheroes in film begins toward the end of Bryan Singer's 2000 film X-Men. The titular mutants, having worked out their differences and accepted Logan as part of the team, are gearing up to catch Magneto. But before they jump into the fray, they're presented with uniforms — and Logan voices his displeasure.
"What would you prefer? Yellow spandex?" Cyclops (James Marsden) jokes.
It's an Easter egg poking fun at Fox's animated X-Men TV series and '90s comic books. Back then, X-Men came in all shapes, sizes, and colors; the team was as diverse as it could be. But the one thing its members had in common, aside from their mutanthood, was their bright blue-and-gold uniform.
(Marvel)
The joke in Singer's X-Men was that the movie and its characters were too cool for the cheesiness that the bold, stretchy outfits conveyed. They were swapped for fitted black leather getups that were allegedly tougher-looking and hipper than capes and Technicolor.
Ultimately, people wanted "cool" heroes. A seething hate for Schumacher's Batman butchery might have been one reason for this, but then there was also 9/11 — the latter haunts comic books and superhero films to this day (the Columbine shootings had a similar effect on pop culture and art). Eventually, the economic collapse of 2008 would help further the idea of ordinary people dealing with real-life problems and needing real-life heroes who weren't birthed from a wish and a prayer.
Cool heroes are dark and anti-establishment, and they play by their own rules. Cool heroes would cuss if comic books would let them. Cool heroes might not kill people, but they aren't afraid to bloody their opponents. Cool heroes are dark and real — and the realer they are, the cooler they are.
Each superhero movie that followed X-Men was faced with the task of grounding itself in reality, lest it risk failure (see: 2011's Green Lantern, which crumbled under its own cheesy earnestness). Fifteen years later, we're still feeling the effects of this movement.
The color palettes of both movies and comic books began to change, bending toward darker, more muted tones. Uniforms were revamped. But perhaps the most fascinating move came from Marvel and DC Comics and their respective marketing arms, as both companies shifted their heroes and movies around to fit this new model. That's why Wolverine became more of a celebrity than Cyclops or Storm, why Iron Man is seen as the life of the Avengers and a counter to Captain America's stiffness, and, of course, why Nolan's Batman became the cornerstone of DC and Warner Bros.' canon.
Batman Begins. (Warner Bros.)
What makes Nolan's work so good is that a lot of it alludes to some of the most compelling Batman comics. Batman Begins borrowed from stories like The Man Who Falls (1989) and Batman: Year One (1987) — comic book arcs that came after Frank Miller's iconic The Dark Knight Returns, which itself came after Miller's noir run on Marvel's Daredevil comic. Alan Moore's nihilistic tales The Killing Joke and Watchmen were also published in that same window of time.
The common themes among those comics are a lack of dazzling superpowers, a pervading sense of realism and consequence, and a pessimistic, even fatalistic feel. Their superheroes were "good," but that goodness didn't come naturally. Comic books with hard edges and noir themes thrived in the late '80s, which ultimately helped launch the current trend of hyper-realist of superhero movies. And though Batman Begins might have felt like a reinvention of Batman when it was first released, especially in the context of the rainbow orgy that was Batman Forever, Begins merely returned the character to his roots.
Nolan traded flash for shadows and glitz for gloom and doom. He transformed bright sunlight into a rare commodity. And in doing so, he crafted a fearsome world where Batman and, more importantly, Batman's villains, could conceivably live. There wasn't anything fantastic or super about Nolan's Gotham, and that's what made it so compelling.
Batman Begins' greatest achievement is the way it sets the table for The Dark Knight — a superhero movie that's so good it's impossible to replicate. Of course, that hasn't stopped others from trying, biting off the most obvious pieces of Nolan's deft style and incorporating them into their own films.
For example, when you watch the grayed-out bummer that is 2013's Man of Steel, you can almost hear the producers asking themselves, "What would Nolan do?"
In the years since Batman Begins and its sequels were released, Nolan has become so iconic that every "dark" superhero movie that comes out, and even individual scenes that count darkness among their characteristics, are seen as references to his work. For instance, if you look at reviews of Netflix's new Daredevil TV series, Nolan is seemingly name-checked just as frequently as the director and the other creative minds behind the show.
It makes me wonder when, if ever, Hollywood will finally break away from the dark and gritty superhero. Too many brooding stories can get exhausting, and I miss the awe and hope that superheroes used to have.
But a few recent glimmers suggest we're ready for a change.
There were hints in 2014's X-Men: Days of Future Past that it wanted to break the mold by leaning into its '70s setting. That same year, Guardians of the Galaxy brought a newfound lightness to what could've been a depressing tale about a space orphan. This year's Avengers: Age of Ultron gave us our first pink-skinned hero (and caped too), Vision, in a while. And in the television sphere, I'm constantly in awe of how much fun The Flash is having.
Therein lies what is perhaps Batman Begins' second-greatest achievement: challenging creators, writers, and directors to push against it, by setting out to make a joyful superhero film that's every bit as good as Nolan's dark works.
For the next several days, several of Vox's writers will discuss the third season of Orange Is the New Black. Before we begin, check out our review of the full season, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date. Joining culture editor Todd VanDerWerff will be culture writer Alex Abad-Santos, deputy culture editor Jen Trolio, and more.
Spoilers follow for the entirety of season three.
Todd VanDerWerff: Dammit, guys, I love Piper Chapman.
Orange Is the New Black's ostensible protagonist has long been seen by fans of the show as one of its Achilles heels. Even those who like the character frequently admit they like the way she's basically the worst, someone who comes into prison with a bunch of preformed opinions and then has those opinions disabused during her stay. In some ways, this argument goes, Orange Is the New Black is a show about checking your privilege; Piper is a vehicle for the show to examine that theme, and a way to force viewers to do so themselves.

But even this argument presupposes that most people find Piper deeply irritating and wish she would just go away already. What's more, Orange Is the New Black sometimes seems convinced it might be better off without its unlikeliest inmate. Even though the series is based on a memoir by Chapman's real-life counterpart, Piper Kerman, I've occasionally felt that Orange Is the New Black hadn't known what to do with the character post-season one (when she was much more the unquestioned lead).
Orange Is the New Black is at its best when Piper is somewhere near its center
In season two, that meant mostly sidelining her in favor of the conflict between Red and Vee. And in season three, it meant throwing her into a romantic subplot with Alex, which bore very little fruit, before having her realize her own darkest side by starting up an operation to smuggle dirty women's underwear out of Litchfield so her brother could sell it on the internet. It was the most pure fun Piper has been in ages — perhaps ever.
This convinced me, more than ever before, that Orange Is the New Black is at its best when Piper is somewhere near its center.
Don't get me wrong, I totally understand all of the reasons many viewers find the character annoying (though they will never catch me saying anything bad about Taylor Schilling, who perfectly understands every single nuance in her character's particular brand of awfulness). I get why people believe the show could be just great without Piper, why she's the thing holding it back. But I just can't go that far. Indeed, I think Orange Is the New Black might fall apart without her, a fate season two came dangerously close to at times.
The thing about Piper is that she serves as a perfect foil for almost every other inmate at Litchfield Penitentiary. She's more innocent than Alex (and the series makes great use of flopping this dynamic in season three). She comes from a much more privileged background than many of her prison peers. She has fewer street smarts than, say, Red. But she survives and she persists and she gets by. That makes her someone who fits in better at Litchfield than even she might be willing to admit.
In contrast, look at how Brooke Soso, a character introduced in season two and presented as a kind of pseudo-Piper, ends up being completely destroyed by Litchfield, attempting to commit suicide after her rejection and bullying by the Norma cult. (She's saved by Taystee and friends, who nurse her back to health and take her under their wing.) We've seen Piper at her lowest over the course of this show, and it's hard to imagine her ever trying to kill herself. She's tougher than she gives herself credit for.
One shift that's occurred in the background of the show's main plots has been the slow ebb of Piper's family visits. Her parents show up to say hi early in season three, but we don't see them again. Former fiancé Larry, of course, has dumped her (and doesn't appear at all in season three). The only person left is her brother, who seems more entertained than anything else by what's happened to his sister. Piper, in many ways, has been cast adrift by the very society that formed and shaped her, forced to find herself anew in Litchfield.
But Orange Is the New Black makes a very convincing case that the family she's formed here is stronger than the one she ever had outside of Litchfield. The show isn't naive enough to believe that its characters will all hang out together once they leave prison, but it does have an innate belief that their bonds are stronger than the characters might confess, because of the adversity that shapes them. Piper doesn't belong in Litchfield, but she's one of the few characters who's literally being rehabilitated by being there.
And, honestly, that might be the show's sneakiest reminder of privilege. Piper can be rejuvenated and tested by her prison experience, because she knows that once she leaves, she can return to being an upper-class, attractive white woman, even if she's a convicted felon. As we've seen time and time again, the other characters don't have that kind of a safety net. It's a key difference that allows Piper to figure out her shit in a way that makes her an interesting center for the show.
Given the amount of time — around 10 months — that has passed in the first three seasons, it sure seems like Piper's time in prison will be up in season five or season six. It certainly seems quite possible that series creator Jenji Kohan has planned out her protagonist's stay in such a fashion. But even though the show's other characters are strong enough to keep things going in a post-Piper world, I'll still find myself a little sorry to see her go. Orange Is the New Black is a better show with Piper in it, and she's a better character than many fans want to let on. Chapman forever.
I know many of you disagree with me, so flame away.
Read the review and check back in throughout the next several days for more entries.

Well, here's one I never expected: President Obama is scheduled to appear on an episode of the podcast WTF With Marc Maron, to be posted this coming Monday. It will be recorded, as most episodes of the show are, in Maron's garage in Los Angeles. Maron announced the news at the beginning of today's episode of WTF, with guest Judd Apatow:
Brace yourselves. Are you sitting down? Okay. Take a breath. All right. If everything goes as planned, on Monday, I will post a WTF – an episode of this show that you’re listening to now – featuring myself in conversation, talking to at my home in my garage, me, talking to the President of the United States of America, Barack Obama.  That is what's happening Monday. If everything goes well tomorrow — I don't know when you're listening to this but I’m talking to him tomorrow, if everything goes well. If everything goes as planned, by the end of the day tomorrow, Friday, I will have an conversation in the can with the President of the United States of America, Barack Obama.
If you're never listened to WTF it may not be totally clear why this is such a bizarre development. The show has a very simple format: episodes typically feature one guest, whom Maron interviews at length, usually delving into his or her personal life and hopes and fears and the whatnot. The guests are almost exclusively comedians, comedy writers, actors, and musicians. Looking through the past 612 episodes (Obama will be 613th) I can't find anyone who isn't somehow in the entertainment industry. The past five episodes featured Apatow, comedian Godfrey, punk musician Mike Watt, actress Constance Zimmer, and comedian and Inside Amy Schumer writer Kurt Metzger.
The most iconic episodes of the show feature comedians and disputes within the comedy world:
Those are probably the five newsiest episodes to date, but there are plenty more good ones: Amy Poehler, Maria Bamford, Fiona Apple, Patrice O'Neal, Zach Galifianakis. If you want more episodes to catch up on, Slate's David Haglund and Splitsider's Jenny Nelson have excellent roundups to get you started.
In his announcement of the Obama interview, Maron mused, "Is there a standard of classic WTF-style interview? I think so. I'm not exactly sure what they are or what they entail, but I know when I do them. And I hopefully will do one of those with the president of the United States of America, Barack Obama." If you listen to past episodes, you'll see what he means. Maron has a long track record of eliciting raw, honest, emotional interviews delving into people's lives and fears and hopes, often with guests you'd never expect to open up like that. If he manages to do the same with the president, it'd be quite a feat.
Every week throughout season five, a handful of Vox's writers will discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones. Before we begin, check out our recap of the season finale, as well the archive of our entire discussion to date. This week, we'll be hearing from culture editor Todd VanDerWerff, deputy culture editor Jen Trolio, politics writer Andrew Prokop, and executive editor Matthew Yglesias. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Matthew Yglesias: Jen, I endorse basically everything you have to say about Game of Thrones' overstuffed finale, except to note (and here comes another book/show comparison) that the source material for this season is much worse in terms of feeling overstuffed and tedious. Despite some misjudgments (Dorne), David Benioff and D. B. Weiss did an overall stellar job of streamlining a messy plot and getting us from point A to point B with a reasonably compelling rhythm.
That said, the last few episodes of season five are in some ways leaving me more pessimistic about the future.
One consistent theme of the TV adaptation is an impulse to deemphasize political scheming in favor of personality conflicts. We see this very clearly at the Wall, where Jon Snow's assassination is rendered largely as a personal rivalry with Alliser Thorne and a sense of mutual betrayal vis-à-vis Olly rather than a big-picture disagreement about the role of the Night's Watch. But we also see it in King's Landing, where Cersei's experience of confinement and punishment is elevated beyond issues of governance in the Red Keep, and at Winterfell, where the question of Bolton relationships with other Northern houses is completely elided.
As we get to a point where we can't rely on the books for explanatory context, the show is often leaving it very unclear what's actually going on
This bothers me in part because, well, I like the political machinations, and I think a show titled Game of Thrones ought to emphasize the game of thrones.
But I also don't like the political stuff, because especially as we get to a point where we can't rely on the books for explanatory context, the show is often leaving it very unclear what's actually going on. For example: where did that giant Bolton army come from? The Boltons don't control rich farmland or valuable natural resources. They don't have a valuable port or a strategic location. They don't seem like appealing allies or people behind whom the other great houses of the North would rally. They seized power with the backing of the wealthy Lannisters and Tyrells, but the central authorities are in total chaos.
Related: if the Bolton army Stannis was marching against was so large, then why did the Iron Bank of Braavos think hiring a bunch of sellswords to back the Baratheon cause was a smart investment?
Obviously, this kind of nitty-gritty isn't quite as thrilling as the kind of Big Moment Television that the back half of season five delivered.
But the sense that these dramatic plot twists and wild CGI battles are happening in some kind of proper fictional universe with rules and contours and occasional boring elements is, I think, important to making the show compelling. After we watched the Battle of Hardhome, I asked how we're supposed to care about the other plot lines. After two more episodes, I'm wondering how much I even care about the White Walkers. The more the story leans into spectacle rather than world-building, the more one is inclined to simply root for death and destruction. It's almost like we're watching a B-grade disaster film.
I hope that as Game of Thrones shifts into season six, we'll get a renewed focus on exploring what's really going on. But I fear that what bothers me just reflects the sensibilities of the showrunners, and that as the story diverges further from the books, we're going to see more and more catastrophes of the week and less and less of the actual game of thrones.
Andrew, what do you think?
Read the recap. Come back soon for more discussion.
Previous entry

One of the contemporary comic industry's most touching and moving stories is coming to an end this week. Alex + Ada, a smooth and somber book by Sarah Vaughn and Jonathan Luna, is a quiet gem that isn't even remotely concerned with fights or superhuman stuff. For the past year and a half, Vaughn and Luna have been crafting a tale about love and all its discontents through the eyes of a man and his robot.
In Alex + Ada's futuristic world, people have robots that do everything for them — the super-advanced androids cook breakfast, wash dishes, make plans, entertain guests, and, yes, some are even made for sex. Alex, a broken and undetermined young man, begins an intimate relationship with one of these androids and eventually contemplates giving it the gift of sentience.
Yes, it's a little weird. But it's also beautiful.
The book has leaned into its sci-fi strangeness, asking all the obvious questions about the ethics and logistics of sexing a robot. But it has also explored the fragility of life and the importance of love, and all the aching moments in between.
I caught up with Alex + Ada's creators to talk about the story, its romance, and what it feels like to end something you love so dearly.
Alex Abad-Santos: I'm pretty sad about the end of Alex + Ada, but in terms of the story, I also realize that now is a good time to wrap things up. How are you feeling about it?

(Image)
Jonathan Luna: I’m very proud of it. I’m happy that I’ve successfully completed another series. And I miss Alex and Ada, as characters.
Sarah Vaughn: I didn’t realize how difficult it would be to complete the series. I didn’t want to leave the characters. There are an infinite number of roads you can take when you write a story. We explored a lot of different paths in the beginning, but we wrote the ending we wanted. Fingers crossed readers enjoy it, too.
AAS: When you first set out to create Alex + Ada, did you know going in how many issues you wanted to write?
SV: Kind of. In the beginning, we plotted out for 12, but it became really clear early on that the story would move too quickly that way. So we spent more time in some areas, slowed things down in others, and came up with our final number of 15. As an example, issues four and five were originally one issue, but the speed really didn’t serve Ada’s journey well. Jon’s cover concept for five turned on a lightbulb for me. I loved the issue five cover, and I wanted the pages to match the intimacy and energy. So we slowed down issue five to really spend time with Ada once she was unlocked.
In some ways, I wanted the comic to be even longer and slower, but the pace I envisioned was so interminable it would be like watching paint dry. That’s just not entertainment.
AAS: What kind of story did you want to tell with Alex + Ada?  Do you think you achieved it?
JL: Personally, I wanted to accomplish at least three things. One, to tell a moving love story. Two, to explore what it could be like to have a relationship with an android. Three, to provoke thought. I hope we achieved all of those. It appears we did, from the reactions I’ve seen.
SV: I really wanted to explore a romantic relationship in a way that felt sincere. And from the start, I wanted the comic series to have an end in sight. I also wanted to tell a more quiet story. We didn’t want them to save the world. We just wanted to explore two people living simple lives in a world that made that very difficult.
AAS: When I read Alex + Ada, I can't help but think of the allegory to the fight for LGBT rights and same-sex marriage. Was this part of the plan?  Am I reading too much into it?
SV: You’re not reading too much into it. But we drew from many civil rights issues. We looked at history as well as current events, and how society and those with privilege react when marginalized groups try to gain equality.
AAS: Alex + Ada focuses on a love story. That's not usually what people think of when they think of comic books. What's the fan feedback been like?  What's it like working with Image, a company that really loves to tell "different" stories?

(Image)
JL: Most of the feedback has been on Twitter and on Facebook. Everyone has been so supportive and sweet. It appears that many are enjoying it, and that makes me very happy. A lot of people just want more. I think that’s a good sign. As for Image, I’m so grateful to have the opportunity to be able to create what I want to create. It’s simple, fair, and rewarding.
SV: Fan feedback has been lovely. It’s always exciting to get messages on Twitter and emails. Cons [conventions] have been great, too, in meeting people who like the book. I think a lot of people enjoy love stories, and we aren’t shy that Alex + Ada is one. Alex + Ada is my first published comic, so I don’t have much to base it on, but I really appreciate the creative freedom with Image.
AAS: What does it feel like to end a comic book series?
SV: It’s emotionally bittersweet. I’m so glad it’s complete, but I also miss it. You hold a lot of tension while you work on a book. Though I’m still writing and working on other projects, it’s quite an adjustment to not have to work on Alex + Ada anymore.
JL: I agree. It’s always sad, but rewarding.
AAS: Who's the bigger sap, Jonathan or Sarah?

(Image)
JL: I don’t know. I can be quite a sappy sap. There’ve been a few moments in the story that made Sarah and me both verklempt. But there were other times where I wanted something in the book and Sarah thought it was too sappy. Though it still may have made it into the book, in the end.
SV: Ha! Yes, there were a couple cheesy moments that I finally agreed to, after some persuasion. It’s a co-creatorship, and I eventually saw that they served the story. Comics are a visual medium. And we don’t have thoughts or inner captions in Alex + Ada, so you need to show emotion and expression to relay information. There were other times, though, that I put my foot down. So I’d probably say Jon is the bigger sap.
AAS: What are you working on next?
SV: I’m marinating a few ideas for the future. Presently, I’m writing a Regency England romance comic called Ruined that’s running in the digital monthly anthology magazine Fresh Romance. Sarah Winifred Searle is the amazing artist, with Ryan Ferrier on letters. You can read it on Comixology or on Rosy Press’s website.
JL: I’ll be working on a new series in the near future. Can’t say more than that right now.
Alex + Ada's final issue is available as a digital comic and in stores.
Believe it or not, there was a time when the comics-based movie wasn't considered a surefire moneymaker. But when director Tim Burton unleashed the grand, Gothic sweep of 1989's Batman, it was unlike anything that'd come before — and, honestly, unlike very little that's come since.
The movie's huge success first suggested to Hollywood that comic book adaptations could be a big business — and that created high hopes for another hyperstylized, comics-based work that was already filming. The result was released in a swirl of hype on June 15, 1990, only to fail to catch fire in the same way Batman had.

That film, Dick Tracy, which turns 25 this week, is a weird footnote in the history of comics-based movies. To study it right now is to find it anachronistic, to label its approach to making comics-based movies as one that just didn't pan out.
And yet there's much to enjoy and even treasure in Dick Tracy. It's nowhere near the best movie of its type, but it's a frequently audacious, stunningly beautiful ride through a four-color universe.
The colors of the reporters' coats mimic the bright splashes of color in newspaper Sunday comics.
Touchstone Pictures
Director Warren Beatty (who also played the titular detective) collaborated with cinematographer Vittorio Storaro (winner of three Oscars for other films and a nomination for this film) and his top-notch design team to create a world that existed primarily in the brightly hued splashes of the Sunday paper's comics page.
This is a world swathed in red and green, in purple and yellow — a look that newspaper publishers adopted in order to print color as cheaply as possible. But Beatty went way, way over-budget trying to capture the lush look of Chester Gould's old comic strips.
Every single scene is bathed in luminescent tints, and the film frequently pauses to take in the colorful grandeur of its fictional universe. If there's one reason to revisit Dick Tracy today, it's that the movie's visuals are wholly different from those of any comics-based movie of today.
This vivid cityscape was created practically. That gives it a handcrafted feel.
Touchstone Pictures
Computer graphics imagery (CGI) was still in its very early stages in 1990, so Dick Tracy is a fun trip back to the era when visual effects technicians had to actually make something in a workshop if they wanted to see it on screen. That's most evident in the film's use of matte paintings — handpainted backdrops that suggest the backgrounds of scenes — which often take on the look of intricate cardboard cutouts.

Dick Tracy's physical environment is further enhanced by the Oscar-winning makeup design created by John Caglione Jr. and Doug Drexler. The two take on the task of literally creating Gould's often repugnant rogue's gallery onscreen, and they do an incredible job. Nowadays, these sorts of effects would be generated via computer, but that wasn't possible in 1990. To watch this movie is to witness the height of a craft from a different era, one that was about to be replaced.
Madonna performs "Sooner or Later, I Always Get My Man," which won Sondheim his Oscar.
Touchstone Pictures
One of Dick Tracy's most important characters is Breathless Mahoney, the femme fatale Dick Tracy encounters at a club run by the movie's main villain. Played by Madonna, Breathless needed songs to sing, so Beatty recruited Broadway composer Stephen Sondheim, the composer and lyricist responsible for Company, Sweeney Todd, and Into the Woods, among others. You can read more about Sondheim's work on the film here.
Sondheim's music underscores some of the movie's best sequences. (In general, when Beatty isn't woodenly reciting its dialogue, Dick Tracy gets much better.) It doesn't hurt that each song is performed by Madonna and longtime Sondheim interpreter Mandy Patinkin (who portrays a piano player known as 88 Keyes), either.
Sondheim wrote about the experience of working on the film in his book Look, I Made a Hat:
Not only was it for a movie based on a cartoon I had grown up with, it was set in the 1930s and thus invited pastiche, something I loved writing. Better yet, the songs were to decorate the plot rather than enhance it, which made them easy to write, and when Warren hired Madonna, no less, to play Breathless, I thought it might even be my chance to have a hit record. In the fullness of time, I didn't get a hit, but I got an Academy Award.
Ladies and gentlemen, Academy Award winner Kathy Bates. As a stenographer.
Touchstone Pictures
One thing many people do remember about Dick Tracy is that it boasts a surprisingly all-star cast. In addition to Beatty and Madonna, Al Pacino plays the film's main heavy, while Dustin Hoffman plays a memorable supporting role as Mumbles, a gangster who only speaks in, well, look at his name. Charles Durning, Dick Van Dyke, and James Caan also pop up in smaller parts.
But one bit player from the film is now famous in her own right. In a single, minor scene, Kathy Bates appears as a stenographer who tries to make sense of Mumbles's distinctive patois. Dick Tracy captures the actress on the cusp of far bigger things. At the same ceremony where Dick Tracy would win Oscars for makeup, original song, and art direction, Bates would take home the trophy that launched the career she has now — for the movie Misery.
Explosions and gunfights dominate the film's third act, which is somewhat unexpected for a film rated PG.
Touchstone Pictures
Though Dick Tracy routinely cuts away from the consequences of its abundant violence, it features frequent, gigantic gun battles between the cops (led by Tracy) and the criminals (led by all those odd, misshapen gangsters). Tommy guns rattle, stuff gets blown up, and the whole thing is a lot louder than you would expect from a PG movie released today.
It's not difficult to imagine a version of this story that clocks in at a hard R, with slightly less judicious cuts. As it is, though, the violence has all the depth of, well, a comic strip panel. It's mostly suggested, never shown.
Dick Tracy never knows how to ask his girlfriend, Tess, to marry him. Her last name is "Trueheart," though. You'd think that would be a sign.
Touchstone Pictures
For those of us who primarily know Beatty as the longtime husband of the actress Annette Bening, it's easy to forget that at the apex of his fame, he was as well-known for all the famous women he slept with as he was for the movies he starred in.
In that sense, the scene where Tracy finally, haltingly proposes to longtime girlfriend Tess Trueheart (Glenne Headly) is a meta-gag on Beatty's own bachelor status — one that makes less sense now, as he's been happily married for decades.
Beatty's use of dissolves to keep several images onscreen at the same time, superimposed over each other, gave the film a vintage, period feel.
Touchstone Pictures
Beatty first attempted to adapt Dick Tracy in 1975, and various studios' ensuing efforts to turn the comic strip into a movie could fill a book of their own. Along the way, directors as varied as Steven Spielberg, John Landis (The Blues Brothers), and Walter Hill (48 Hrs.) were invited to put their stamp on the material, before eventually falling away from the project for various reasons.
The final director courted before Beatty decided to just make the thing himself was Martin Scorsese, who was experiencing a bit of a low period in the late 1980s, when he was making daring, adventurous work that nobody was watching, like The Last Temptation of Christ. After failing to land the Dick Tracy job, however, Scorsese would go on to make Goodfellas, so everything turned out okay.
The final shot offers more evidence of the film's gorgeous matte paintings and production design work.
Touchstone Pictures
Dick Tracy is mostly remembered for how it didn't live up to the considerable fanfare that greeted it upon its release. And indeed, the huge marketing campaign mounted by Disney (which released the film under its Touchstone arm) resulted in only middling returns. Dick Tracy only managed to make a little under $104 million domestically, with another $59 million coming in from overseas. Details of the film's final budget differ (with Variety suggesting it had topped $100 million), but most sources agree that it only crawled to profitability on home video.
The problem was that Disney was expecting another Batman, and had instead delivered a smaller-scale hit that it hadn't properly budgeted for. But Dick Tracy, ultimately, did perform respectably. It even landed in the top 10 films of 1990. In 2015 dollars, it would have made just under $200 million domestically, and while that's not a smash, it's still respectable. There's a reason Beatty kept trying to produce a sequel — he had every reason to think he might be able to.
Brilliant television.
TCM
In 2009, Beatty recruited Leonard Maltin and two-time Oscar-winning cinematographer Emmanuel Lubezki to shoot a half-hour television special that would later air on Turner Classic Movies. The program features Maltin earnestly reciting a bunch of facts about Dick Tracy, while Beatty occasionally interjects — in character as Tracy — to describe the famous detective's exploits. It's super weird, and you can watch it below.

Why did Beatty do this? The rights to the character were about to revert to Tribune Media Services (which owns the comic strip), and the stubborn actor still wanted to make a sequel. In order to retain those rights, Beatty produced this special, and a judge later ruled this proved he had a vested interest in continuing to make movies with the character. Beatty continues to hold the rights for all future Dick Tracy movies, and Tribune will just have to continue to wait.
Raising the minimum wage is a popular cause in America, with around 70 percent of the public saying a move to about $10 an hour would be right. A higher wage floor, not surprisingly, is somewhat less popular with American small-business owners, according to a recent survey conducted by Vistage in cooperation with the Wall Street Journal.
Overall, small-business owners are split about 50-50 on the subject of a higher federal minimum, with a very slight majority in the poll saying they are opposed:

However, if you restrict your attention to the owners of the smallest businesses, with less than $4 million in revenue, you see majority support for a wage hike:

Business owners at least claim this is not a matter of direct self-interest, with the vast majority of small-business owners reporting that they do not employ any minimum-wage workers:

Research indicates that wealthy people in general are much more skeptical of minimum wage increases than the population at large, so small-business owners' views may reflect general affluence rather than any specific concern about their workforce.
This chart is some fun pop cultural proof of periodization: the idea that history is easier to study when we divide it up into discrete, but often arbitrary, blocks of time, like the Gilded Age or the Depression era.
Of course, that's not really how the world works, and it shows when looking at some of the most famous people from different eras.
Believe it or not, all these people were alive at the same time.
Christophe Haubursin/Vox
Intellectually, we might be able to understand that Harriet Tubman and John Wayne lived at the same time. But in our minds, one belongs to the Civil War era, while the other is exclusive to the swaggering cinema of the 1950s.
That may be why no matter how much you stare at the chart above, you'll always be disoriented seeing Jimmy Stewart paired off with Justin Bieber.
Right now, the iOS version of "Angry Birds Space" has 10,958,921 players. And the No. 1 player is Dan Guzman (his first name is Philip):
The best "Angry Birds Space" player in the world — and me.
Phil Edwards/Vox
As of this writing, Guzman has a score of 32,809,824, better than anybody else to play the game. (Below, I explain how we verified this.)
So how does someone become the best player out of almost 11 million people? What does it take to pull this off?
I got in touch with Dan to ask him, and the answers were completely different from what I'd expected.
This is what it looks like when your Game Center friend is the best in the world.
Phil Edwards/Vox
"I find it fascinating that anybody's fascinated by this," Guzman tells me. "It's never been that big of a deal to me."
I expected to talk to an obsessive who was deep into the arcana of Angry Birds Space. But while the game is definitely a hobby for Dan, it's by no means all-consuming.
"It was a perfect game for me"
A 49-year-old father of four, he's a sales manager in Wichita, Kansas, who mainly uses the game to decompress after a long day at work. "It was a perfect game for me — it's a good busy finger game, and it's just nice to have something that's mindless," he says.
Despite being one of the best gamers in the world, he's not even that into video games. As a teenager, he did dump all $123 of his first paycheck into an Asteroids arcade machine, but since then he rarely played games before the advent of the iPad and iPhone. The last computer game he finished was "Myst," and he has to get his kids to help him turn on the PS4 so he can watch a DVD.
He doesn't care a lot about the "Angry Birds" culture either, and doesn't really know anything about the elaborate "mythology" behind the birds. During our conversation, he never lapsed into complex terminology (birds were just called "birds," not "Bip bap bops," "Space bashers," or other names approved by the manufacturer, Rovio). He also hasn't yet been contacted by Rovio, even though he's the LeBron James of "Angry Birds Space."
That leads to the big question: how did a normal (and very pleasant) guy become the best "Angry Birds Space" player in the iPhone universe?
"Angry Birds Space." Dan Guzman would have a much better score than this.
Rovio
Dan Guzman's tips for having the high score at "Angry Birds" don't revolve around what to do in one particular world, or the perfect angle to swing a bird. They're actually surprisingly universal, because getting a high score is about understanding the rules of the game.
First, and foremost, dedication is key. "I'm a completist," Guzman says. "I can't not finish the game." That's key in "Angry Birds Space," in which overall scores are cumulative based on a player's scores in many different levels. Though Guzman is rarely the top-scoring player on a particular level, he makes sure to play as many levels as possible, which puts him above the less comprehensive competition.
That's paired with his key attention to detail — while most of us stop paying attention after our bird has been slingshotted away, Guzman observes exactly what happens. Since scores are calculated not only by how many pigs are killed, but also by how many blocks are broken, that close observation is key. "You'll hit a level and you'll see a brick fall one way one time, and 9 out of 10 times it falls the other way. It's a lot of noticing how the things in the game move."
"It's a war of attrition"
That attention isn't limited to the gameplay, however — it also includes noticing how the game is scored. Guzman broke down his overall score by examining the leaderboard for each level — and where he had a lower score, he replayed until he could improve. That, in turn, helps him gain a leg up in what he calls "a war of attrition."
He resists the idea that he's some kind of "Angry Birds Space" savant — he says optimizing his play is better than trying to find some visionary strategy. "The more you play," he says, "you can tell you hit one of those levels when you're maximizing it." That makes it easier to play very well in small chunks — "I can't sit down and do it for an hour," he says, "but a lot of little time is fine."
Finally, he gave some advice that sounded, to me, a lot like what Elon Musks's ex-wife said her husband had practiced: don't waste time reading forums or strategy guides. Just do it. "With 'Angry Birds,'" Guzman says, "never once have I looked for advice on a level. Never been on any forums. That was my sense of competitive pride. I just played it." Though there's a huge community for "Angry Birds Space" players, Guzman never tried it out.
Together, all those tips coalesced into a surprisingly simple lesson: a long grind is the best way to achieve something incredibly rare. Guzman is probably overly modest about his innate skills, but he sees his victory as a triumph of persistence. "It's a simple matter of repetition," he claims. "Patience and repetition, and optimizing."
A very angry bird.
Rovio on YouTube
Guzman is a unique player in some ways — he has a competitive drive and an interest in completing every level perfectly. A lot of people wouldn't care about their score on a particular level, but he does. At the beginning of his "Angry Birds Space" odyssey, he even watched the transitional videos in the game, because he could earn achievements for watching them ("I maxed out the achievements a long time ago," he notes).
It's not obsession — just consistent, day-by-day gameplay, approached by a sharp, analytical mind. But his days journeying in space may be ending soon anyway. "Actually, ['Angry Birds Space'] probably isn't my go to game," he says. "I spend a lot more time on 'Madden Mobile.'"
"Madden" fans, if a worldwide mobile leaderboard ever comes, you've been warned.
* A note on how I verified that Guzman was, in fact, the top "Angry Birds Space" player. By becoming Guzman's friend on GameCenter, I was able to verify his score and achievements, but there were some things that still need to be clarified.
If you look on GameCenter right now, you may not see Guzman's avatar either. We think that's because Rovio and/or Apple updates the top all-time leaderboard to reflect people who've played that day (Rovio did not respond to our request for comment). However, as our screenshots show, Guzman has consistently held the top spot.
There's also the question of cheating. Cheating in mobile games is a constant battle for game developers. Players often use bots to get the highest score possible (usually for no other reason than to beat the system). In fact, Guzman suspects that's why he suddenly became the No. 1 player. "For a long time I was 42nd or 43rd; it was one of those deals where you could tell all the people in front of you had cheated," he says. "They must have weeded those people out."
Based on our conversation and the realistic nature of his scores, it seems extremely unlikely that he's using bots to get a high score.
One final caveat — "Angry Birds Space" doesn't have integrated leaderboards across platforms. So this championship is for iPhone wins alone. You can see a cross-platform leaderboard here (though it relies on user-entered data that we can't verify).
Every week, a handful of Vox's writers will discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, we'll be hearing from culture editor Todd VanDerWerff, executive editor Matthew Yglesias, and foreign policy writer Zack Beauchamp. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Todd VanDerWerff: I've talked around this a few times in the last couple of weeks, but never quite gotten into it directly. I'm not entirely sure what Littlefinger's plan is, and I think that might be derailing several plot lines.
I mean, I have the broad outlines of Littlefinger's plan. To riff on South Park for a moment, he seems to be aiming for this:
I get the start and end of this plan, but not really the middle. Littlefinger is currently in the "sow chaos" portion of his plan. (Arguably, he's been there since before the series began.) And it seems safe to say his endgame involves becoming king in some way. But it's that long middle portion, when he's ostensibly controlling for thousands of variables, where I'm not sure what he's thinking.
See, here's the thing. If we're supposed to be seeing Littlefinger's carefully laid manipulations flying out of his control, then the story is more or less succeeding. Cersei leaping into an alliance with the Faith Militant (and ultimately disrupting Littlefinger's brothel business) seems like something he wasn't counting on, and if he felt any real affection or care for Sansa, then his plan to leave her at Winterfell was a boneheaded one.
If this is the part of the story where Littlefinger slowly realizes he can't run the entire kingdom through deceit, then well played, writers. And he's always got the fissures he's exposed between the Tyrells and the Lannisters to fall back on, so it's not as if Littlefinger is out of the game entirely in this scenario (especially if Stannis overthrows the Boltons, as he's clearly expecting).
There's also the theory that Littlefinger is just sowing chaos to eliminate as many variables as possible, then hoping that when the dust settles, there are so few left that he can deal with them easily. He's weakened the Lannisters considerably, he knows the Tyrells and Martells aren't going to pose a significant threat at the moment, and the North has been broken. If he can whittle the contenders down to Stannis, he's in good shape. (Of course, he's unaware of Daenerys, but then, everybody is.)
That seems to me the most plausible theory for what's going on, but the show has done less than I would like to lay this out. By and large, Game of Thrones doesn't operate like Lost or other shows of its ilk. It's not teasing mysteries that we will hopefully realize the answers to down the line. It plays mostly in straightforward fashion with its audience, give or take a White Walker epidemic. (And even there, it tends to pair appearances of the Walker horde with bits of necessary information about them.)
Littlefinger in the books is a shadowy figure who isn't on the page all that often. That allows him to loom larger in the mind as a master manipulator of everything that happens, who's able to make things happen with a snap of his fingers. By making him more of a constant presence, the show has given us plenty of the amazing performance of Aidan Gillen (plus) but has also made everything the character does just a little bit more implausible (minus).
Littlefinger presents himself as a man who always has five or six backup plans, and because of that, he rarely needs to give the audience much in the way of clarity. And while I buy that that's who this man is, I'd also love for just a second to get a quick glimpse into his head, to figure out what he's thinking. Instead, we get scene after scene in which he talks in veiled terms about what he's really up to, and whatever is driving him gets further and further obscured.
Matt, I know you heartily disagree with me, so why don't you take it away? What am I missing here?
Read the recap. Come back throughout the week for more entries.
Previous entry
I'm used to reality shows with premises as jaw-droppingly exploitative and gross as that of CBS's new series The Briefcase, which debuted Wednesday, May 27. But I'm not used to seeing a show like that executed this poorly, one that scrapes the bottom of the barrel so thoroughly that it breaks through the barrel, then starts scraping the bottom of the one beneath.
Rating
The Briefcase features a truly terrible idea at its center, but what's almost worse than that is how dull and repetitive it gets almost immediately. It's one thing to have a brazen reality show rub your nose in how terrible it is while daring you to keep watching with greater and greater heights of depravity. It's quite another to have a show essentially shrug 10 minutes in and say, "Yep. This is all there is. Enjoy the next hour."
On some level, The Briefcase literally forces the American lower class to compete with itself for table scraps bestowed upon it by wealthy people who work in television. But it's filmed with all the saccharine sentiment of a store-brand greeting card, and it's about as boring a TV show as you'll see this year.
It's filmed with all the saccharine sentiment of a store-brand greeting card, and it's about as boring a TV show as you'll see this year
There's a version of this show filled with horrible people doing horrible things to each other, with the producers the most horrible participants of all. You might hate yourself for watching that show, but you at least wouldn't be able to tear your eyes from it. Instead, what we're left with is a lukewarm pile of goop.
At the center of each episode of The Briefcase are two families, both of whom are deeply in debt and continuing to call themselves "middle class," when it's desperately clear that they're clinging to the absolute bottom rungs of that ladder with all their might. They, of all people, need help, and television is here to give them that help.
The idea of a TV show swooping in and giving someone from the middle or lower class a life-changing opportunity is the basis for much of reality television, to say nothing of the game shows and talent shows that gave birth to the genre. The old show Queen for a Day, in which housewives competed to have the saddest story so as to become the woman in the title, is not so very far removed from, say, Shark Tank, which lets entrepreneurs seek investment from successful business tycoons.
So there's nothing inherently wrong with any of this. There's a way to put people's hardships on television and offer a kind of inspirational uplift at the end, to suggest that if you work hard and do everything just right, you, too, might be gifted with a lot of money on a TV show. And The Briefcase gets one big thing right. It doesn't blame the families on the show for the dire straits they find themselves in, as too many shows in this subgenre do. (See: Lifetime's mercifully short-lived The Fairy Jobmother.)
The families agonize and agonize, and the show does everything it can to ratchet up their agony
The problem comes when the two families are essentially forced to compete to see who has the saddest story ... without even really knowing they're competing. At the episode's beginning, each family is given a briefcase with $101,000 in it. Of that money, $1,000 is spending money. But the other $100,000 is money that the family is told it can use in one of three ways. It can keep all of it, it can give some of it to another needy family, or it can give all of it to another needy family.
What both families don't know is that the other family is weighing this same decision at the same time, in another state entirely. The premiere features a down-on-his-luck ice cream truck driver's family and the family of a war veteran who has lost a leg, both wrestling with how much (if any) money to give to the other family. They agonize and agonize, and the show does everything it can to ratchet up their agony.
The producers of the show come in to drop off the briefcase, then force the families to go through several wrenching stages of figuring out just how selfless or generous they're going to be. They're asked to sum up how much money they'd feel like giving away right now, both separately and as couples. And in between these stages, the producers text them with more information about the family they could serve as unlikely benefactors toward, slowly turning those families from abstract, imaginary figures into actual human beings.
It's gut-churning, and not in a good way.

The two families meet at the episode's end. (CBS)
What The Briefcase is trying to do is clear. It wants viewers at home to realize that they, too, could be in a tough situation like the ones depicted onscreen. And it wants said viewers to weigh their own desire to help their families with their theoretical generosity. It wants, in other words, to foster empathy.
But it can never quite escape the central flaw of its premise. The money in that briefcase came from somewhere, specifically the producers and CBS itself.
If a family theoretically decided to keep all of it and got all of the money from the other family, that $200,000 would stay with them, but it wouldn't really be their fault, nor would they be selfish, necessarily. The producers of the show have taken a big TV budget (where this kind of cash is extremely small potatoes) and given it to people who need that money most, then taunted them with the prospect of snatching that money away at the last moment, simply because they hope to turn charity into a game show.
The money in that briefcase came from somewhere, specifically the producers and CBS
To be sure, there could be a sick thrill to this, somewhere along the line, but the series seems aware of just how mercenary and exploitative its role in the process is, which means that it buries everything under many, many layers of sap in the hopes that you won't notice.
Plus the show never overcomes the central structural flaw it has, which is that it simply turns into a long series of arguments between spouses about which of these two families (their actual family or the theoretical one in all those text messages) is harder up for the cash. The show simply can't find a way to make this anything other than repetitive, which quickly saps its momentum.
The fact of the matter is that reality TV shows like this so often draw their participants from the sorts of places you don't usually see on TV, from faded cities and small towns that are nothing like the New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles settings of so many scripted shows. But reality TV is also perpetually terrified of seeming too real, of bumping up against the uncomfortable economic realities of many of its viewers.
As I wrote for the Baffler last year:
When reality TV manages to directly address the financial plight of Middle Americans, it does so in fugitive, fragmentary glimpses. In most cases, these glimpses occur entirely by accident and are swiftly shunted aside. But they turn up nonetheless; any time you send cameras out into the middle of the United States in search of something that smacks of documentary realism, you’re all but certain to find someone struggling to make ends meet while poking at the embers of the American dream.
And that's exactly what happens on The Briefcase, which walks up to something big and terrifying and hard to understand — the collapse of the American middle class — and then does everything it can to run far, far away from what it's uncovered.
The Briefcase airs Wednesdays on CBS at 8 pm Eastern. It's available to stream on CBS.com.
Swiss police descended on a quiet luxury hotel in Zurich this morning and arrested seven officials from world soccer governing body FIFA. The men had gathered at the tony Baur au Lac — an establishment that features an in-house florist, its own exclusive brand of chocolates, and a mysterious but intriguing amenity called an "IT butler" — in preparation for Friday's vote for FIFA president. But instead they found themselves under arrest on US federal charges, including racketeering, wire fraud, money laundering, and other charges relating to bribery and corruption.
As the arrested officials were hustled into waiting cars, police held up sheets of fabric to shield them from the press cameras that swarmed around the hotel exits. But even though there were no "perp walks" at the Baur au Lac, the world greeted the charges with gleeful schadenfreude — and hunger for more. FIFA is charged with promoting a sport that is beloved the world over, so its officials' apparent callous exploitation of the world's love for soccer has long been a subject of global outrage. Many commentators' happiness at the indictment was tempered only by disappointment that hated FIFA president Sepp Blatter was not among those arrested.
But Blatter may not be off the hook. US Attorney General Loretta Lynch announced that the current charges are "only the beginning," and are part of much broader global efforts to combat FIFA's corruption. Indeed, today Switzerland also announced a parallel investigation that will focus on the bidding process for the 2018 Russia and 2022 Qatar World Cup Finals, which have long been rumored to have been awarded as the result of a corrupt bidding process. Although that decision has not been proven to be the result of corruption, it has already proven deadly to the countless migrant workers who have died during Qatar's preparation to host the cup.
In other words, today's indictments and arrests are likely the first public steps in a process that could reach much deeper into FIFA. That would not only be a step toward ending FIFA corruption around the world, it would also begin the process of accountability for decisions that have already had serious, even deadly consequences.

FIFA director of communications Walter de Gregorio, during a press conference held after the arrests. (Philipp Schmidli/Getty Images)
Today's indictment says a lot about how corruption prosecutions actually work. The charges aren't an overarching summary of all the corruption that may or may not be happening at FIFA. Rather, they're tightly focused on just one subset of alleged corrupt activity — in this case, the distribution of broadcast rights for soccer games.
Likewise, rather than going "straight to the top" to bring charges against the most senior FIFA officials, the indictment focuses on the networks of corrupt activity. Individuals charged include marketing executives from outside FIFA who allegedly paid bribes, as well as FIFA officials who allegedly accepted them. That's a common strategy in cases like this one, because it allows investigators to build cases against more senior officials on a foundation of information obtained from prosecutions of lower-level people.
That's likely why Lynch said that this was "only the beginning": large conspiracy and racketeering cases like this one can expand over time, as information obtained via guilty pleas is then used to charge more defendants. In other words, today's case might not be just an end in itself — it could also be a means toward prosecuting higher-level officials like Blatter.

Former FIFA executive Chuck Blazer. (Julian Finney/Getty Images)
The New York Times reports that today's indictment was built on information obtained from former FIFA executive Chuck Blazer. Blazer, who was the general secretary of CONCACAF, the regional organization governing soccer in North America, Central America, and the Caribbean, secretly pleaded guilty in 2013 to charges including wire fraud, racketeering, money laundering, and tax evasion. Bloomberg reports that Blazer, who is listed as "Co-Conspirator 1" in today's indictment, wore a hidden microphone in meetings with FIFA officials to gather evidence of the bribery scheme.
The second key cooperating witness appears to have been José Hawilla, the owner and founder of the Traffic Group, a multinational sports marketing conglomerate based in Brazil. Hawilla also pleaded guilty, along with two of his companies: Traffic Sports International and US subsidiary Traffic Sports USA. Although it is not yet clear what specific contributions Hawilla made to the investigation, he is listed as "Co-Conspirator 2" in the indictment, and the Traffic Group's efforts to obtain the rights to FIFA games are at the center of the allegations unveiled today.

(Javier Zarracina/Vox)

Today's charges primarily arise from the way FIFA distributes media and marketing rights to soccer games. They allege that FIFA officials extracted massive bribes from sports marketing companies in exchange for the rights to FIFA games.
Media and marketing rights include TV and radio broadcast rights, sponsorship rights, ticketing rights, licensing rights, and hospitality rights. But FIFA doesn't contract with broadcasters and sponsors directly. Rather, it sells the rights to middlemen — sports marketing companies — which in turn license the individual rights to television networks, radio stations, and other companies, often at a very significant profit.
That means those rights are tremendously valuable. That value should have been flowing to FIFA directly, and then on to the national soccer organizations it supports. But instead, the indictment alleges, a huge percentage of the marketing revenue went to line FIFA officials' pockets. According to the indictment, FIFA officials treated their positions like toll booths, extracting bribes from marketing organizations that needed their signatures or cooperation.
For example, the indictment alleges that Hawilla's Traffic marketing company paid millions of dollars in bribes between 1991 and 2011 to regional and national FIFA officials in order to ensure its continued access to the marketing rights for tournaments like the Copa America.
According to the indictment, the bribery began in 1991, when Nicolás Leoz, then the president of CONMEBOL, FIFA's regional organization for South America, refused to sign a contract until Traffic paid him a six-figure bribe: he allegedly said that Hawilla was going to make a lot of money from the marketing rights, and that he "did not think it was fair" for him not to make money, too. Leoz allegedly then began to demand bribes regularly, in increasing amounts, until they were in "the seven figures" by 2011.
The indictment also includes other charges, such as an allegation that Blazer and another defendant, former FIFA vice president Jack Warner, accepted millions in bribes in exchange for voting for South Africa to be the host of the 2010 World Cup.

(Reddit user droolingtortillas)
There is some irony in the fact that this case is being brought by US federal prosecutors. The United States is famously uninterested in soccer, which lags behind (American) football, basketball, and baseball in popularity. So what's this case doing in a Brooklyn courthouse?
Part of the explanation is that many US federal laws have a global sweep — especially those that involve financial wrongdoing. As long as there is some "nexus" with the US to provide jurisdiction, such as the involvement of a US financial institution or a US citizen, then US attorneys often can and do prosecute wrongdoing that took place primarily overseas. For instance, in 2014 former Guatemalan president Alfonso Portillo was sentenced to six years in US federal prison for laundering money through US banks. The corruption at the core of the case took place in Guatemala — Portillo was accused of using the office of the president as his "personal ATM" — but the nexus with US banks was enough for him to be prosecuted by US courts.
That's why the indictment focuses so much on what it refers to as the "centrality of the US financial system" to the alleged crimes: the use of US financial institutions gives prosecutors jurisdiction to prosecute the cases.
But the FIFA case actually has much stronger connections to the United States than one might have guessed. One of the key players in the corruption scandal, Blazer, is a US citizen: Bloomberg describes him as a "former Westchester soccer dad." One of the Traffic subsidiaries that already pleaded guilty was a US corporation. CONCACAF's principal administrative office is in Miami. And soccer is growing more popular in the US, which has raised the value of the marketing rights that were obtained through bribes.
In other words, this isn't just a case of a federal prosecutor aggressively targeting conduct overseas. This is a case in which US individuals and a US company conspired to commit crimes with foreign co-conspirators, using US financial institutions, in order to exploit US and foreign markets. Viewed through that lens, it's not surprising that the Justice Department decided this was a good use of US federal resources.

A migrant worker at al-Wakrah soccer stadium, one of Qatar's 2022 World Cup facilities. (Marwan Naamani/AFP/Getty Images)
Today's charges were likely only the beginning of FIFA corruption prosecutions. Switzerland also announced an investigation into the vote that awarded the 2018 World Cup to Russia and the 2022 World Cup to Qatar, which is widely believed to have been swayed by improper influence. And in a press conference at the Department of Justice, Attorney General Loretta Lynch promised that today's indictment was "only the beginning" of the process that would bring FIFA wrongdoers to justice, and pointedly refused to answer a question about whether current FIFA president Sepp Blatter had been given a "clean bill of health" in the investigation.
The scope of the prosecutions will matter, because recent FIFA decisions have caused real harm. The 2022 World Cup final in Qatar, for instance, has already cost the lives of many migrant workers who have been killed during the country's efforts to prepare to host the cup in 2022. According to a 2014 Guardian investigation, one Nepalese citizen working on World Cup infrastructure in Qatar dies every two days. And countless others are stuck in near-slavery, laboring in extreme heat and other unsafe conditions.
Qatar also criminalizes homosexuality, making the country an unsafe venue for LGBT World Cup fans. In 2010, FIFA president Blatter said that LGBT people should "refrain from any sexual activities" while attending the tournament — hardly a solution, let alone one that is respectful of LGBT fans' relationships or private lives.
And the heat in Qatar is so extreme that the tournament has had to be moved from its usual June and July period to November and December. While this is certainly not as serious a concern as the abuses or deaths of migrant workers, the altered schedule will interfere with professional soccer seasons around the world, potentially hurting the sport that FIFA is charged with promoting.
It would be bad enough if FIFA's decision to award the World Cup was merely the result of incompetence. But if that decision was the result of corruption — as seems likely, but has not yet been proven — then the people responsible should be brought to justice.  Soccer may be just a game, but it's one that is beloved by millions of people all over the world. If today's allegations are true, then FIFA's officials have exploited that love for their own profit, and abused the game for their own benefit. That's an appalling breach of trust.
Maggie Gyllenhaal rapped Hollywood last week by revealing she was turned down for a role as the love interest of a 55-year-old leading man because she was "too old." She is 37. Her experience frustrated and surprised many, and we wanted to know just how typical it is of the way Hollywood really works.
A woman's sex appeal sunsets on Sunset Boulevard in remarkably shorter time than its genetic reality, and Gyllenhaal's story is part of a trend of female leads disappearing from romantic roles in top box office films after the actors turn 30.
In a review of the top-grossing romantic films since 1978, among the two primary romantic subgenres (comedies and dramas) the average age of female leads is about 30:

The ages of top two leading actors in the 15 top-grossing romantic comedies and 15 top-grossing romantic dramas, as measured by the film's lifetime revenues, 1978 to 2015.
Only a handful of actresses over 30 played romantic leads in these films, and usually as older seductresses of young men. And if they're women of color, forget it.
On the big screen, women go from Lolitas to Yentes so fast it seems like they're living in dog years. Just 12 percent of the 100 top-grossing films last year had female protagonists, says Patricia White, chair of film and media studies at Swarthmore College:
The disparity corresponds to erroneous market wisdom that only films by, about, and targeted to men (especially young ones) make money. Films are judged by opening weekend grosses with worldwide releases now common.
Take Anne Bancroft, who was immortalized by the role of older seductress in The Graduate. In 1966, she starred in John Ford's 7 Women. If you haven't seen it, a look at the movie's poster gives the basic idea:
Poster of 7 Women. (Wikipedia)
A year later, in 1967, Bancroft played Mrs. Robinson, who competed with her own daughter for the affections of Dustin Hoffman's Ben Braddock. Hoffman wasn't even six years younger than Bancroft; the woman who played her daughter, Katherine Ross, was only two years younger than Hoffman. Perhaps Mrs. Robinson bewildered millions of people for more reasons than just social norms or sexual taboos.
Give credit to HBO and Showtime, and television in general. They've been casting women in their late 30s and 40s as love interests for decades. White mentioned that there might be an economic factor driving the difference between television and film, in that "women have always been assumed to be TV's core market, and they've had more chances to write, produce, and carry shows."
Among those on premium cable channels now or in recent seasons: Gretchen Mol (Boardwalk Empire), Mary-Louise Parker (Weeds), Carice van Houten and Lena Headey (Game of Thrones), Polly Walker (Rome), and Natascha McElhone and Heather Graham (Californication). Jessica Lange (in her 60s) and Angela Bassett (in her 50s) have played sexualized roles on FX's American Horror Story. There are other actors we could include in a longer list of examples, but it's clear from these few that television is friendlier to older women actors than film when it comes to romantic roles.
There are plenty of women playing leading parts in television and film, but often not in romantic roles in top-grossing films. So far, we haven't said much about the pre-1978 years. A brief review of the ages of female actors in top films since 1941 (in high regard, though not gross) comes up mostly under 30, too.
Among films that did include a female lead over 30, Sunset Boulevard stands out. Considered one of the best all time films by the American Film Institute, it debuted with 51-year-old Gloria Swanson is its female lead. The film isn't a romantic one, though; it's one in which an aging beauty of the silent cinema years refuses to come to terms with Hollywood's slow rejection of her as she aged. More than just a great film, it may also be the most realistic one, too.
As for the rest of AFI's list, it overwhelmingly features female actors who were under 30. Ingrid Bergman in Casablanca? 27. Vivien Leigh in Gone With the Wind? 26.
There are female actors who play big romantic parts past the age of 40. Susan Sarandon attracted the attentions of Kevin Costner and Tim Robbins in Bull Durham at 41; Marisa Tomei, then 43, played the wife of Philip Seymour Hoffman and lover of Ethan Hawke in Before the Devil Knows You're Dead. And who could forget Angela Bassett, who turned 40 the year How Stella Got Her Groove Back hit theaters in 1998.
There's a small difference in age ranges between romantic comedies and dramas. In romantic dramas, the average age of a leading lady is just under 30:

14 highest-grossing romantic dramas, 1978 to 2015. Brokeback Mountain is not included, as both of the leading actors are male. The film is the 14th highest-grossing film in the category since 1978.
When you look at romantic comedies, the average ages interestingly skew a bit older for both men and women:

Top-grossing films in the romantic comedy genre by lifetime revenues, 1978 to 2015.
Myrna Hant of the University of California Los Angeles's Center for the Study of Women noted in an email to Vox that the Hollywood casting process is as much influenced by "tried and true stereotypes that are deeply embedded in our culture" as any other place in America.
Correction: The first chart was corrected to reflect the accurate release year of the films Hitch and Coming to America.

Like this video? Subscribe to Vox on YouTube.
Every week, a handful of Vox's writers will discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, we'll be hearing from culture editor Todd VanDerWerff, executive editor Matthew Yglesias, and foreign policy writer Zack Beauchamp. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Zack Beauchamp: Matt, I do think things were a bit better this week on the "did watching this crush my soul?" scale. Part of that, and a major reason I ended up rather liking this episode, is purely a matter of pacing: things actually happened. And the things that happened weren't all terrible things!
Lots of people have noted that Game of Thrones is even more languidly paced this year than in past seasons. Plot domino after plot domino has been set up, but very few of them have actually been knocked down (and the ones that were, like Sansa's marriage, were often unpleasant to watch).
Now the dominoes are finally starting to fall, which is great in two ways. First, it creates plots we're genuinely invested in. Love her or hate her, you can't help but care about Cersei's fate at trial.
But equally importantly, it creates character interactions that are intrinsically compelling. Watching Game of Thrones is a long anticipation game: because we know how TV works, we know isolated characters like Daenerys and Jon are going to have to be relevant to the main plot in Westeros eventually. Tyrion's meeting with Daenerys represents the beginning of that endgame, so it's electric TV, even though they're only face to face for a few seconds of screentime.
Ditto in Dorne. Though the Dornish aren't nearly at Daenerys's level, their introduction last year through Oberyn, an all-time great character, created a thread that needed to be pulled back into King's Landing's orbit. Now with Jaime and Bronn there, that's starting to come together.
Speaking of Bronn, I legitimately don't know how to feel about his "flirtation" with one of the Sand Snakes (I believe it's Tyene). It's undoubtedly riveting: everything from Bronn's singing to his seduction to his utter humiliation in pursuit of the antidote is brilliantly done. And it's intriguing to see a woman play sexual power games with a man in a show that's full of men doing the same unto women. But the nudity felt designed to fit HBO's "boob mandate" more than anything else, and the Sand Snakes as a group still feel more like basically anonymous plot devices rather than real people with real motivations.
But the Winterfell plot is the real stinker. Ramsay Bolton is a plot black hole. He's such a terrible character that he sucks in all of the surrounding plot lines he's involved in and makes them close to as terrible as he is.
Consider this: how did Ramsay find out who told Sansa to put the candle in the broken tower? She doesn't mention the servingwoman to Theon by name. Thus, Ramsay's capture and flaying of the servingwoman makes him more or less omniscient, as far as the story is concerned.
This is nonsense, contrived solely to put Sansa in even greater peril. And while Sansa gets a few good scenes out of it, trying to guide Theon back to reality and confronting Ramsay with his manifest inadequacies, that doesn't excuse the ridiculousness of the resolution.
Worse, it positions Ramsay as some kind of Joker-esque evil genius, whose depravity is matched only by his cunning. The decision to introduce Ramsay Bolton at all is only redeemable if he falls — if, as Matt suggested last week, his inability to rein in his cruelty causes his ultimate downfall in the same way that Ned Stark's refusal to compromise his honor caused his. The show already has really interesting, complicated master manipulators like Olenna, Littlefinger, and Varys. They don't need a boring evil sibling.
But that's ultimately a side complaint about what was, by the end of the hour, a pretty strong entry. Todd, are you as excited as I am about the goings-on in Essos and Dorne?
Read the recap. Come back throughout the week for more entries.
Previous entry
Every week, a handful of Vox's writers will discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, we'll be hearing from culture editor Todd VanDerWerff, executive editor Matthew Yglesias, and foreign policy writer Zack Beauchamp. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Matthew Yglesias: The Wall … well … I really love this thread in the books, and somehow the rich politics of it all seem to have been washed out in the screen adaptation. It doesn't help that the bluish hue and the cloaks make everyone look the same. Nor that setting up Gilly to be raped, just so the story could serve as a character-development milestone for Sam, is an egregious cliché.
It's particularly troubling that the show can't make this interesting because in basic story terms the stakes could not be higher. Winter is coming, which means an army of ice zombies is poised to attack the Wall and wipe out all of humanity. The Night's Watch is understaffed, and due to the continuing fallout of the War of the Five Kings no help will be coming from the south. Lord Commander Jon Snow's visionary solution is to pivot the Watch away from its traditional mission of fighting wildlings in order to recruit wildling fighters to help repel the White Walkers. It's an idea that sickens many longtime men of the Night's Watch, yet it just might be the last best hope of mankind!
The show has somehow turned this into a muddle.
One problem, I think, is that the butterfly effect has sent show-Melisandre on a campaign with Stannis, rather than having her at the Wall with Jon. But the exact same change has improved the Stannis-marches-to-Winterfell plot. The man who would be king is soon to be faced with a rather bleak choice — save his daughter's life or save his military campaign.
For now, of course, he chooses Shireen of raison d'état, and we celebrate him for it. But miles away the Queen Regent (for now) Cersei is telling her son that she would "burn cities for him," a rather chilling expression of motherly love. The conflict between our intuitions that say Cersei is wrong to hypothetically sacrifice tens of thousands for the sake of her son while also saying that Stannis is right to refuse to sacrifice his daughter to liberate the North from the Boltons is the stuff of a thousand freshman philosophy seminars.
I have to say, Todd, I can't really take the same degree of pleasure in Cersei's downfall that you do. For starters, I think Cersei (particularly the show's version, whom the creators wisely made less nutty than the book) is oversold as a villain by a fandom that is excessively hung up on the Starks, whose lack of mindfulness about the public interest is fundamentally what's brought humanity to the brink of possible destruction. But that's a matter for another day.
Just hewing to the episode before us, the problem with Cersei's downfall is the Sparrow. If I am a citizen of the Seven Kingdoms, I am not excited about his rise to power. He has the look of a Khomeini or perhaps even a Pol Pot about him — someone ready to overthrow a corrupt order, while perhaps replacing it with something even worse.
His rhetoric in favor of the common man and against the elite is appealing. But he has no agenda for constitutional reform. Populism is a bludgeon with which to beat the Great Houses in order to arrogate more power to the Faith, not to redistribute it to the people. And he has no civic-minded policy agenda. He's not doing anything to fight the White Walkers or to prepare for winter — he's policing the sexual mores of the King's Landing elite.
One of the few positive aspects of Westeros's political order is that, as far as we can tell, it practices an admirable degree of religious tolerance. What happens to that now that the Sparrows are running the show? What becomes of those who follow the Old Gods or the Lord of Light? I feel like this is heading to a dark place.
Speaking of darkness, Zack, do you think the show did a better job of mixing in some levity this time? The Jorah and Tyrion Show is pretty funny, especially considering that the subject matter is being kidnapped into slavery and forced into gladiatorial combat.
Read the recap. Come back throughout the week for more entries.
Previous entry
Every week, a handful of Vox's writers will discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, we'll be hearing from culture editor Todd VanDerWerff, executive editor Matthew Yglesias, and foreign policy writer Zack Beauchamp. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Todd VanDerWerff: After last week's whiff of an episode, "The Gift" makes up for lost time, layering in lots and lots of scenes viewers have been waiting for. Cersei is arrested! Tyrion and Daenerys meet for the first time! Sam and Gilly sleep together! Sansa grabs hold of a pointy object she might use to hurt Ramsay! Winter isn't just coming anymore; from the looks of that snow, it's here! Why, about the only thing here that doesn't feel like a payoff (or the start of one) is Brienne standing glumly outside of Winterfell, checking her watch to see if it's episode nine yet.
If the last episode felt a bit like the show getting trapped by its own storytelling devices, then "The Gift" aims to let viewers know that the show still has some tricks up its sleeve. It's more successful at this in some plot lines than others (the Sansa story is still a bit of a mess), but at least the series has regained the momentum it misplaced in some of the previous hours.
Part of this has to do with the episode's sense of justice. And by that I don't mean justice in the traditional "blind lady holding scales" sense. I mean it in the sense of what we, the viewers, think we are owed, in some ways, for continuing to watch. Game of Thrones is a weird show, because it can get away with heaping a lot of awful shit on its characters before viewers wish for the faintest glimmer of light. But the second it screws up that balance, it's easy for the show to completely crumble.
I've had friends tune out, unable to take it any more, after the Red Wedding, after that fight between the Mountain and Oberyn, and after Sansa's rape. And it's hard for me to blame them, in some ways. This show can be a hard slog if you're looking for something like a more traditional "victory" from the main characters. The closest we've gotten was that season when Tyrion was Hand of the King and was good at it. Beyond that, it's slim pickings.
The way that Game of Thrones compensates for this is by heaping terrible things on the characters we want to see terrible things heaped upon. Joffrey's death at his own wedding, for instance, is one of the show's great moments of catharsis, which is pretty screwed up, if you think about it. Here's a teenage boy, and we're actively encouraged to cheer on his death by poisoning, because at least it's happening to a borderline sociopath.
So it goes with the imprisonment of Cersei Lannister, which is treated as the episode's culmination. And that's saying something in an episode that ended with a slow-building series of big, big moments, including Tyrion and Dany's first meeting. But, no, what the episode wants to leave us with is the weird triumph with which it plays Cersei finally outsmarting herself by empowering the High Sparrow to ultimately toss her in jail.
What's more, Cersei is finally captured for the thing she's been guilty of since the series began — incest. And even more interesting than that is that Cersei's relationship with her brother is one of the few things about her that makes her more than a one-dimensional villain. She really does love Jaime, but that relationship turned sour long ago. She's left clutching at whatever shards of it are left.
Of course, she's been thrown in prison for sleeping with her cousin Lancel, not Jaime, so we don't know how all of this will pan out. But it stands to reason that now that the country will see her accused of the thing she's always been rumored to be guilty of, everybody can fill in the blanks themselves. It's not a coincidence that the episode featured two scenes where characters reminded us neither Tommen nor Myrcella has any real claim to the throne. They're just there because Cersei steamrolled over any objections, and now she's in no position to do any more steamrolling.
But even as Cersei's comeuppance was long deserved, I found myself feeling a pang of sympathy for her. Some of that is in Lena Headey's wondrous performance, one of the show's best. But just as much is in the way the show has always written her as a victim of her biology. Had Cersei been born a man, she would have swept onto that throne in the wake of Robert's Rebellion. She might have even led the charge. Instead, she became a prize to be won, and the bitterness inspired by that festered.
What makes Cersei one of the show's best characters is that she's a villain, yes, and a villain you want to see brought to justice. But she's also completely and totally understandable. You get where she's coming from, and her motivations make sense. Contrast that with, say, Ramsay, who's just a monster, or with Littlefinger, whose plans increasingly seem beamed in from another dimension. Cersei was just the smartest and the cleverest and the cruelest, until she ran out of room to run and she wasn't any more.
How did you guys feel about this episode? Wasn't the Wall starting to get interesting just a couple of weeks ago? How did it once again turn into a bunch of characters talking about what they might do in a couple of days?
Read the recap. Come back throughout the week for more entries.
Previous episode's discussion
Correction: This article originally referred to Lancel as Cersei's nephew. He is her cousin. Still, gross.
Recently, in a series of articles, the semi-satirical journal Proceedings of the Natural Institute of Science conducted a thorough statistical analysis of a very important topic: New Yorker cartoons.
Okay, so the basic idea of analyzing these alternately beloved and mocked cartoons is admittedly a little tongue-in-cheek in the first place.
But Matt J. Michel and the series' other authors actually looked at real data — they coded every cartoon the magazine published in 2014 — and they came to some pretty depressing findings about the portrayal of nonwhite dudes in one of the country's most liberal magazines.

(
First, Michel analyzed the sex and ethnicity of every cartoon character. Of course, it's not always possible to tell what ethnicity a character is intended to represent in a black-and-white cartoon, but when in doubt, he coded a character as nonwhite, so it's likely he overrepresented the number of minorities in cartoons.
Nevertheless, in 2014, the New Yorker fully complied with what Michel calls the Law of Media: "in which underrepresentation of minorities and females is the default setting for any given media outlet."
Out of 1,810 total characters, 1,277 (about 70.6 percent) were male, and 1,714 (94.7 percent) were white. As Michel notes, this is similar to the underrepresentation of nonwhites in newspaper comics (which have about 2 to 4 percent nonwhite characters) and worse than children's books (which have 5 to 10 percent).
When it comes to the disparity between men and women in these cartoons, the study authors noticed something interesting — though, again, not surprising. The handful of female cartoonists were way, way more likely to draw female characters:
(Proceedings of the Natural Institute of Science)
On the whole, female cartoonists drew about 46.9 percent female characters, compared with 26.6 percent for male cartoonists.
Michel next analyzed the occupations and types of characters represented in every 2014 cartoon, and the number of women or nonwhite characters who filled the roles.  Again, it wasn't possible to always determine exactly what a character was meant to be, so the most common designation was simply "person."
After that, though, there were some amusing trends that are worth bringing up before we get to the serious stuff. In addition to the usual suspects you'd expect popping up in the top 20 most common characters (like "spouse," "office worker," and "child"), there were some pretty bizarre and utterly New Yorker cartoon-esque roles — like "cave person," "historical stereotype," and member of a "medieval/royal court."
Note: there are two X-axes. The top portion shows the most frequently occurring characters on a compressed scale.
(Proceedings of the Natural Institute of Science)
Again, though, there were some depressing trends to be found when it came to the representation of nonwhite male characters.
Women disproportionately filled the roles of "parent," "assistant," and "spouse." They were far less likely to be portrayed as "scientists," "literary figures," "coaches," or "police."
In fact, when it comes to many of these occupations, it's a good bet that New Yorker cartoons are far behind the real-world numbers: about 10 percent of the lawyers in the cartoons were women, whereas about 33 percent of American Bar Association members are in reality.

(New Yorker)
When it comes to movies or TV shows, the need for accurate representation of nonwhite guys is more obvious.
"Hollywood films reach people all over the globe, and they significantly impact the way that we see women in the world. What we see on the silver screen, ultimately, tells us what to believe about ourselves, and the world around us," Vox's Kelsey McKinney wrote about the Hollywood gender gap.

But the same principle could apply to art as mundane as New Yorker cartoons and children's books. "When whole groups of people appear as stereotypes or not at all, all children lose out," Amy Rothschild recently wrote at FiveThirtyEight in discussing the lack of nonwhite characters in kids' books.
Children might not read the New Yorker, but adults are impressionable, too. The fact that the default setting for its cartoon characters is white and male — and that when women appear, they're most often wives or mothers — subtly drives home stereotypes in much the same way.
We've had many episodes of buildup in the past few weeks on Game of Thrones. The High Sparrow and his followers have steadily stamped out corruption and sin in King's Landing. Two sets of traveling companions (Jaime and Bronn; Tyrion and Jorah) have gone through thick and thin to get where they're going. And Sansa has been destroyed, over and over again, left holding on to a mere sliver of hope.
But in this episode, the shit hits the fan.
In "The Gift," some characters see their longstanding plans come to fruition, and some see theirs crash and burn. These are the moments everyone will be talking about today (spoilers ahead).
HBO
Maester Aemon has one of the most surprising deaths on the series so far. He isn't stabbed, flayed, poisoned, or beheaded. No, he dies of old age.
Of course, Aemon didn't live like most characters, either. He's one of the few major characters who isn't playing the game of thrones. He's an unbiased eye, a moral compass for the bloodthirsty world that surrounds him. In his youth, Aemon went so far as to refuse the throne when it was offered to him after his father's death, simply because he didn't think he was fit for the position. It's tough to imagine anybody else in this universe making that kind of decision.
With Aemon's death, Sam has lost one of his most trusted mentors — and he's also lost his last real ally on the Night's Watch. Sam is now more alone than ever in Castle Black, and the consequences play out quickly and harshly: with Jon Snow gone and Aemon dead, two brothers assault Gilly and beat Sam when he tries to stop them. Jon's direwolf, Ghost, intervenes at the last minute, but it's a close call.
After a gratuitously brutal wedding night scene in last week's episode, Sansa has been holding on to one last shred of hope: making a cry for help through the candle in the tower. Since she can't make the trip to the top of the tower herself, she entrusts Theon/Reek to the task, but he turns on her, telling Ramsay.
Just as Sansa pokes at the potential threat Roose's unborn child holds for Ramsay's right to power, her plans for escape come to a halt. Ramsay takes the token of Sansa's foiled plot — the flayed, crucified body of the old woman who promised Stark loyalty — and parades it in front of her, hanging the corpse in the main courtyard.
Brienne of Tarth is waiting just on the horizon, ready to jump into action and fulfill her promise to Catelyn Stark. But from Sansa's point of view, things are looking pretty grim.
HBO
Jaime and Bronn have traveled a great distance to retrieve Myrcella from Dorne. But the two see no payoff. Jaime's young daughter (who has no idea she's his daughter) doesn't want to leave her new home or her new beau. And Jaime doesn't have much sway to convince her otherwise.
Meanwhile, Bronn, in a prison cell across from the Sand Snakes, learns he's been poisoned by the blade that grazed him in the water garden. One of the Snakes gives him an antidote — but not before flashing her body to him and making him call her the most beautiful woman he's ever seen. It's hard to see where this is going just yet, but at least we've learned Bronn has a lovely singing voice.
HBO
In one of the episode's most heart-pounding scenes, Jorah and Tyrion make it to the fighting pits, which Daenerys has reluctantly reopened. Jorah, waiting to enter the ring, overhears that his queen is watching the fights and bursts out into the fray. She's not happy to see him — not initially, at least — until he tells her that he's brought her a gift.
Tyrion, who has freed himself as well, makes his entrance to the field, and introduces himself to a shocked Daenerys.
There are a lot of things Daenerys doesn't understand about ruling, and a whole lot of things she doesn't understand about Westeros. With Tyrion by her side, that could change.

(HBO)
Ah, Cersei. For the entire season now, she's played the religious fundamentalist sect as her bargaining chip to wipe her city and her family clear of the Tyrells. She forgot one key problem, though: the faithful are committed to their own ideological agenda, not to Cersei's political one. And even if she is queen, incestuous adultery doesn't fly by their rules.
For the High Sparrow, it's all about the rule of law. In an exchange with Olenna Tyrell, he explains that he can't make any exceptions for royalty. If he doesn't hold them up to the same standards as everyone else, the standards don't really exist.
After Cersei visits Margaery (who rightly knows that Cersei is behind the imprisonment of her and her brother Loras), she visits the High Sparrow in a chapel. The High Sparrow monologues a bit about the value of an altar minus the frills of a church — it's the foundation that counts. Cersei's foundation, he accuses, is a twisted one.
It's some of the first serious pushback to Cersei's manipulation that we've seen since Joffrey's death. And it's an ironic twist, too: Cersei gave the High Sparrow the power that's now being levied against her.
As the episode ends, she's imprisoned, vowing to destroy those who've wronged her. But those threats ring more hollow than ever before.
Previous episode
As it enters its final three episodes, Game of Thrones' fifth season has reached an unusual point.
There are many stories here that very nearly compare with their book versions. Cersei's arrest by the Faith Militant, for instance, is pretty similar to what happens to her in George R.R. Martin's book A Feast for Crows. Olenna hanging out around King's Landing is an invention of the show, for instance, but Cersei's downfall plays out very similarly to how it does on the page, and it's almost as satisfying here as it is there. There are differences here and there, but if you described the plot to book readers, they would mostly nod in recognition.
Then there are plots that have mostly faithfully adapted a story from the books, but pasted characters we're more familiar with over said story. This is what's going on with Sansa right now (and part of why so many people are angry about that particular storyline). Finally, we have stories that have either left behind the books entirely (as with Jaime's adventures in Dorne) or rocketed past them (as with Tyrion and Jorah's journey).
And it's impossible to say which of these things the show is best at right now. There are strong and weak storylines of all three types. Let's take a look at the five most interesting changes the show has made this week.
Daenerys and Tyrion, together at last.
HBO
Here's the show's most obvious break with the page. In the books, Tyrion and Jorah have yet to get near Dany. (Indeed, in the sample chapters from the sixth novel that Martin has released, the characters are still outside of Meereen.) Here, however, Jorah finds his way into the fighting pits, proves the victor of the bloody struggle, and ends up standing before his Khaleesi, who wants him dismissed. And then Tyrion strides out to introduce himself, and everything shifts.
For the most part, season five has been outright collapsing plots from the corresponding books that amount to up and backs — stories where the characters travel to a place, then return to roughly where they started, both physically and psychologically. Tyrion and Jorah's voyages in Essos are a great example of this, as the show has simply cut out whole swaths of what they go through. (If adapted faithfully, for instance, their time with the slavers would have taken up at least two episodes, if not more.) Andrew has spoken about this at length in previous weeks, so I won't belabor his points here.
But the simple fact of the matter is that Dany and Tyrion, two of the show's most dynamic, interesting characters, are now in the same location at the same time. The safe bet is that they'll have lots to catch up on, and we'll have a good time watching them do so.
Sansa grabs a weapon but doesn't use it just yet.
HBO
What's going on with Sansa right now amounts to a cover version of something from the books, and the choice of the show to transpose the awful things that happen there to Jeyne Poole, a minor character, onto a fairly major figure is really, really weird. The series seemed as if it had been setting Sansa up for one arc — in which she gets revenge, finally, for what happened to her family — only to reveal that, just kidding, she was going to see just as much misfortune as every other Stark.
Yet in "The Gift," it's easier to see what the show's writers are going for here. Instead of a minor character suffering Ramsay's monstrous behavior, Sansa is, and that gives viewers more of an investment in both the story and what happens to her. Instead of just being a shot at Theon redeeming himself and a way of turning the North against the Boltons (as it is in the book), the show gives us a chance to show a Sansa who's fighting back the only way she knows how — by striking at Ramsay's pride. (She's also stolen a sharp, pointy object, but we don't yet know how she plans to use it.)
Again, in theory, there's something there, but this is still an episode where Sansa is locked in a tower and raped repeatedly and most of the actual story momentum lies with Theon. (The best Sansa can do is snipe from the sidelines.) It's hard to see the show finding a way out of this story corner that is at once true to the characters, satisfying for the audience, and not a complete cop out. But maybe the series will find one!
In other news, the North plotline is slowly turning into a bunch of characters who aren't at Winterfell in the books converging on Winterfell. Sansa's already there, Brienne is just outside, and Stannis is on his way. It will be interesting to see when and how all of these characters collide, since it will have to be almost a complete invention on the series' part.
Melisandre shows Stannis what she has seen when it comes to his assault on Winterfell.
HBO
In A Feast for Crows, Melisandre wants to sacrifice a child to power her magic. It's just the son of Mance Rayder, a character whose importance to the books is much greater than it is to the show. Thus, she instead suggests to Stannis that Shireen needs to die if he's going to be ultimately successful in his attempt to take Winterfell. This amounts to the other shoe dropping on that scene from earlier in the season where Stannis was being such a good dad to his daughter.
Martin often talks about the butterfly effect when trying to describe why he thinks the show and his books are such different things, even though the adaptations are incredibly faithful for cinematic adaptations of books. What he means is that relatively minor changes made in earlier seasons necessitate much larger changes in later ones. And the elevation of Shireen as the child Melisandre wants to kill is one of these changes.
Because Mance just isn't as important to the show, the fate of his child (who doesn't even exist on TV) isn't going to be of much interest to viewers. As such, a character who's more familiar to the audience makes a better choice for this story. Plus since Shireen is a little girl, not a baby, the show can give her actual scenes to play that will theoretically make us care more about her. That seems to be most of the reasoning behind this change.
Sam brought backup. Spoiler alert: it's a direwolf.
HBO
Sam and Gilly do have sex in the books, and it is after the death of Aemon. But in the books, the characters are in another location, as they make their way to Oldtown for a plot line that the show seems to have cut out entirely, in favor of keeping the characters consolidated in a handful of locations.
The main difference here is that Sam now confronts a couple of his Night's Watch brothers when they threaten to sexually assault Gilly. It would be inappropriate to say he saves the day, as the scene is ultimately broken up by the direwolf Ghost arriving to scare off the would-be perpetrators. But he does get a chance to stand up and show what he's made of (in an episode filled with scenes dealing with codes of masculinity). After all, he says, he killed a White Walker and a Thenn. What are two humans compared with that?
The notable thing is that this is a case of the show completely cutting out a plot line but keeping the incidents that matter from it, like Aemon's death and Gilly and Sam's coupling. The series is doing more and more of this, and it's surprising it works as often as it does.
It really doesn't feel like that much distance separates Tyrion and Jorah from Daenerys.
HBO
This is a thing that's been bothering me all season, and even if there are a bunch of other things I could put in this slot, I'm going to talk about this.
Take a look at this map of the world of Game of Thrones.
The map of the known world.
Lychnidos/Wikimedia Commons
That United Kingdom-ish landmass over to the west is Westeros, the place many of the characters on the show are located. Meanwhile, that gigantic landmass over to the east (the one that looks kinda like Asia) is Essos, where more and more characters are having adventures. Arya's over there, for instance, as are Tyrion and Jorah. Dany, of course, is freeing many of the cities around Slaver's Bay.
One of the problems Martin has had telling stories on this continent is just how big it is, meaning that characters have to do a lot of wandering before they get anywhere. The show has mostly gotten rid of this by having Essos become, conservatively, 200 square miles.
I'm exaggerating, of course. The distance between where Jorah and Tyrion first met up and Meereen, where Dany rules, isn't that far. But it still feels like everybody's navigating Essos like they have access to, at the very least, steam-powered locomotives, if not automobiles. Part of what makes Essos such a fascinating place in the books is how vast it is. The show has done a poor job of conveying that.
At least Arya's still half a continent away. If she drops in on everybody else next week, there will be words.
Previous episode
WATCH: Late night television is changing everywhere
Every week, a handful of Vox's writers will discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, we'll be hearing from deputy culture editor Jen Trolio, executive editor Matthew Yglesias, foreign policy writer Zack Beauchamp, and culture editor Todd VanDerWerff. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Todd VanDerWerff: Here's a plot I've barely seen discussed in this past week's chatter about Game of Thrones: whatever Arya is up to over in Braavos. The show has often used Arya and Sansa as vague mirror images of each other, and it very well might be doing the same thing here. And if that's the case, then I'm marginally more interested in wherever Sansa's storyline is going — while still thinking it's a largely predictable and unnecessary tangent.
Arya is told by Jaqen at the end of her storyline in "Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken" that she is not yet ready to become no one, but she might be ready to become someone else. In short, just as Sansa is forced to embrace her name — and all the horrors that go along with being a woman of the ruling class in her world — Arya is giving hers up in order to become whatever it is she has to be.
This is, in some ways, George R.R. Martin's major theme about government writ large: the more one tries to cling to the old, corrupt system, the more one will be damaged by it. Arya literally has to become someone else if she's going to get anything done. Sansa is stuck in place because she is required by Littlefinger's (completely inscrutable, I might add) plan to be Sansa.
It's worth pointing out here that in the book, the person who fills Sansa's role, more or less, is a minor character who poses as Arya Stark, which underlines even more what Martin might be going for here. While Arya gives up her life, somebody else is waiting to pick up her name — only to find herself subjected to horror after horror when she does.
Indeed, you can broaden this out a bit. In this show, anybody with the last name Stark is there to get punished. That becomes predictable too easily, but it would sort of make sense that the only way for Arya to get revenge for what happened to her family would be to literally stop being one of them.
This doesn't, to my mind, excuse the show's sometimes too callous use of sexual violence as a button it pushes to shock the audience, but it at least places it within a larger thematic context. The current system is horrible to women, so women should be working to avoid or destroy it as much as they possibly can. Of course, when you put it that way, it can seem like the series' themes are blaming victims — like Sansa — for trying to make the best choice out of a series of bad ones, so it's not like this completely absolves anybody.
It does, however, make more sense out of the series' choice to juxtapose Arya's story with everything else in this episode. In isolation, Arya's plot increasingly seems like one of those episodes of Lost where the characters were hanging out with the Others but couldn't get any good answers or information out of them, leading to frustration within the audience. When combined with everything else, however, Arya's storyline at least offers the hope of something new. She and we might not know just where it's going yet, but we at least have the promise it might be better than what came before.
This, admittedly, is grasping at straws to figure out why this episode was such a stinker. But there might be something deeper at play here, even if it didn't really work. And that's worth keeping an eye on in the weeks to come.
Read the recap. Come back tomorrow for discussion of the next episode.
Previous entry
I like everything about the new Disney movie Tomorrowland but the movie.

Rating
Does that confuse you? It confuses me, too. There's so much great stuff in this movie that doesn't even remotely hang together. And yet I loved the acting and the directing and the banter and the ultimate message of the film so much that I'm left feeling vaguely positively toward it, even as I realize it essentially told no story. Fittingly for a movie with this name (one of the original "lands" of Disneyland), it's a theme park ride — all build and build and build, and then a very quick, ultimately unsatisfying drop.
But oh, that build is very fun indeed.
Here are five things I liked about Tomorrowland enough to mildly recommend it — even as I'll acknowledge that it's a complete and utter mess when it comes to telling a coherent tale.

Look! This movie has George Clooney! George Clooney! (Disney)
The center of Tomorrowland is a strange, futuristic city hidden away in some sort of alternate dimension (which was apparently discovered by a team of scientists that included Nikola Tesla and Thomas Edison, among others). In this city, the greatest thinkers of their respective eras gathered together to invent the future — and create a community that looks like the cover of an early 1960s sci-fi novel.
Clever minds and great inventors would be recruited from our reality to move to Tomorrowland, where they could develop their ideas, freed from interference. As such, it's become a great, gleaming place, the sort of "new frontier" you know John F. Kennedy had in mind back in the day.
Of course, the city has fallen into disrepair and closed itself off from our reality. And of course, our protagonist, a young woman named Casey (Britt Robertson), is just the person to figure out what's gone wrong. Joining forces with Tomorrowland outcast Frank (George Clooney) and a mysterious young girl (Raffey Cassidy), Casey aims to save not just the future of Tomorrowland but the future of Earth itself.
What director Brad Bird and his co-writer Damon Lindelof (who came up with the story with Jeff Jensen) are getting at here is the idea that the most powerful force humanity has is blind optimism and hope. The thrust of the film turns out to be — literally! — an argument against dystopian fiction and the post-apocalyptic scenarios that clog up our multiplexes, TV lineups, and bookstores. These ideas are, the film argues, poisoning our belief in humanity's ability to get out of tight corners and thus making it harder to try to fight back against the many ills that could destroy us in the future.
How do I know the film is about this? Because it told me, in a third-act monologue that stops the film dead. Normally, this would completely destroy whatever goodwill the movie had built up, but this theme is so completely out of nowhere and counter to pretty much any other "message movie" being made today that I still have to give it props for originality. And the film's last five minutes so beautifully drive this theme home — much more skillfully than the monologue — that it's hard not to leave with some degree of hopefulness yourself.
Of all of the things I like about Tomorrowland, this is the one that many of my fellow critics disagree on. Plenty of them find Robertson and even Clooney irritating, with only Cassidy earning raves across the board.
But dammit, this is a fun cast, and the middle section of the movie — when they're just bombing around Earth, looking for a way to get to Tomorrowland, bickering all the while — is a tremendously enjoyable hour of movie. (Of course, it's smack-dab in the middle of a 130-minute movie, which gives you a sense of where this movie's problems emerge.)
Robertson and Clooney are well-matched as a 21st-century spin on Back to the Future's Marty McFly and Emmett Brown, and Cassidy has such a strange presence that you never get tired of watching her.
Yes, Robertson can be irritating, but that's what the film is asking her to do. She's that incredibly bright teenager all of us knew at one time, the one who had too many questions and kept asking them over and over and over again.
But she's also a perfect conduit for Bird's central idea. He often isolates her in the middle of the screen, smiling or raising her hand to ask a question. Or he'll set her aside using lighting, as if to directly call out what he's saying. And Robertson is great at channeling the sheer, overwhelming forces of hope and optimism. Maybe we shouldn't be shutting down that irritating kid, the film argues. Maybe we should be helping her as much as we can.

Despite some chintzy special effects, there are some nice things about Tomorrowland, the place. (Disney)
This is only Bird's second live-action film — the first was Mission: Impossible — Ghost Protocol — but his long experience in animation (where he worked on several seasons of The Simpsons before directing The Iron Giant, The Incredibles, and Ratatouille) has given him a great sense of the most important thing any big-budget director can understand: geography.
A major portion of this film is taken up with sequences where Casey zips between our reality and Tomorrowland's reality, thanks to the use of a seemingly magical pin. While Casey seems to be in Tomorrowland, she remains in our reality, and that means Bird has to constantly make us aware of when she, say, walks into a wall.
Because Casey is figuring out how all of this works in real time, she doesn't really have anyone to turn to. Thus, Bird has to visually depict her thought process as she works out this particular conundrum, and he makes every single step she takes in the project completely logical. He's great at showing Casey thinking, before leaping to whatever conclusion she came to.
Some of the later action sequences — particularly the last one — lose a little something from these earlier ones, and Bird skews into some surprisingly dark violence in ways that might not appeal to family audiences (but did work for me).
But by and large, this is a great reminder of how Bird is able to keep viewers situated within the geography of his set pieces — even when there are multiple dimensions in play.

Casey (Britt Robertson) finds a seemingly magical pin. As you do. (Disney)
At its most basic level, Tomorrowland is a 1980s family sci-fi adventure. It's the sort of thing that would have been directed or produced by Steven Spielberg back then. It has everything you'd expect — a high concept, kinda chintzy special effects (that the film nonetheless tries to pass off as part of its story), an ad hoc family formed in the heat of battle, a villain meant to signify a philosophical concept (and not really working as such), and a kid missing one of her parents at the center.
But almost all of those movies were about teenage boys or young men. Certainly, Tomorrowland could have been about one, too. (The original script reportedly was.) But it's hard to imagine that theoretical film having the surprising force of the best moments in this one, and that's largely because simply putting Robertson at the center of a movie this big feels surprisingly radical. It shouldn't, but it does.
Casey is an unabashed science geek. She runs around the movie in hoodies and a baseball cap. She gets told at several points how special she is, how much the world depends on her saving it. And even at her most irritating, she's always the hero. In other versions of this movie, Casey would just be "the girl" or maybe "the love interest." Here, she gets to be so much more — and that's refreshing.
Honestly, all of the above is true. I don't know how everyone involved pulled this off, but they did, and Tomorrowland is worth seeing for that alone.
Tomorrowland is playing in theaters everywhere.
To discuss the series finale of Mad Men , culture editor Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by several of Vox's other writers. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here.
Todd VanDerWerff: So where will you leave Mad Men?
This is a question I think about every time a show I love ends. It's one I took from the great screenwriter William Goldman, who write Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid and All the President's Men, among others. He postulates that when you really love certain actors, you freeze them in your memory at a certain point in one of their movies. (I wrote a little bit more about Goldman's theory here, if you're intrigued.)
I think we do the same thing with TV shows and with TV characters that we've enjoyed. The first time you think of a show you loved that went off the air, you'll inevitably think about it in a certain scene or moment or episode. For me, for instance, The Mary Tyler Moore Show is always that climactic hug with all the characters involved, while The Sopranos is that final image of Tony looking up as the bell dings.
But it doesn't have to be the final image, either. Buffy, for me, will always be about the hero pushing her boyfriend into hell to save the world. (Yes, this happened. It was awesome.) ER is forever George Clooney standing in the swollen river, bearing up the body of the young boy he's going to save, no matter what (possibly because NBC ran this promo image into the ground).
So all of that said, here is where I leave the characters of Mad Men, as we say one last farewell to the show. I don't have the time to write up every single character, so I'm sticking with the main seven. But I hope you'll share your own thoughts with me on Twitter.
As I was compiling this list, it was amazing to me how many of my moments were from season one. One of those is for Roger. When I think of him first, I always think of his raw vulnerability in the wake of his heart attack way back in the first season. All of that cool and bluster falls away when he thinks he might be dying, and it was key to what Weiner was doing with that character.
After his heart very nearly fails, Roger gains some brief vulnerability.
AMC
For me, Sally will always be first remembered at the moment when I realized just how gifted a young actor Kiernan Shipka was — the scene in early season three when she drives her grandfather around in the car. Shipka's expression here says so much about how long Sally has been waiting for somebody, anybody, to notice her, and if it's an old man who verges on dementia and lets her drive a car, well, why not?
When Grandpa Gene lets her drive, Sally gets a brief taste of responsibility.
AMC
I mean, could it be anything else? This is one of the all-time iconic Mad Men images, so famous that we've stripped almost all of its context from it.
Betty takes aim and fires.
AMC
Here's another season-one image, and another where it seems hard to divorce the character from this moment. In the episode "Babylon," Joan handles a focus group of office secretaries for a lipstick account the agency is hoping to land. It's a pivotal moment for Peggy, too, as she'll offhandedly say something that launches her advertising career. But it's a key indication of just how aware Joan is of how in control she is of so many workplace situations, as she is very cognizant of the men who are watching her. The series would spend most of its run simultaneously undercutting that image — and building Joan up into someone even stronger than she was here.
Joan's expression in this moment conveys so much about how she feels about her role in the office.
AMC
For a lot of people, this is going to come down to Pete sitting alone with his gun. And I thought for a long time about that. But if push comes to shove, my favorite Mad Men episode might be season five's "Signal 30," a Pete-centric hour that's all about how far short he's fallen of what he imagined he might be. As such, the final image of that hour — Pete sitting in a driver's ed class, thoroughly demoralized, as Beethoven's Ninth rises on the soundtrack — is the definitive take on Pete, to me.
Pete sits alone at the end of driver's ed class.
AMC
Mad Men didn't lose its power to create memorable images even late in its life. Indeed, the definitive Peggy Olson image might have come from the third-from-last episode, "Lost Horizon," when she, hungover, headed in to work. It was as cool and badass a moment as the show had ever conjured.
Peggy shows up for work at McCann.
AMC
There are, of course, so many great Don images I could place here. Simply the image of this perfectly sculpted man is much of what Mad Men sold itself on. And the series also gave us a solid final image of the man, sitting cliffside by the beach, thinking up a great ad.
But for me, Don will always come back to a more obscure moment, in season five's "Lady Lazarus." At the office, Don calls an elevator, but when the shaft opens, one isn't there.
There's no elevator there!
AMC
The expression on Don's face says it all. On some level, he's been expecting this. On some level, he knows it's coming. Mad Men is all about ignoring your mortality in some ways, and in this moment, Don gets to see his up close. He doesn't like it.
Don stares into the empty elevator shaft.
AMC
This is the kind of show that invites this sort of discussion, isn't it? It's always straining — sometimes too much — to turn itself into iconography. And yet it so often succeeds that it's hard to hold those moments when it doesn't against it. If Mad Men is all about the creation of a perfect image, well, these are the ones I'll take with me.
Read the recap.
Previous entry
Every week, a handful of Vox's writers will discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, we'll be hearing from deputy culture editor Jen Trolio, executive editor Matthew Yglesias, foreign policy writer Zack Beauchamp, and culture editor Todd VanDerWerff. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Matthew Yglesias: To say something nice about a bit of a dog of an episode, I thought the material in King's Landing that centered on the inquest into Loras's sexuality was excellent.
Some of that is simply because the Diana Rigg/Natalie Dormer/Lena Headey acting troika is superb. But at the same time, the acting sings because the story is actually interesting. Per what Zack and Todd have written, this is a morally ambiguous situation full of complicated characters. The High Septon seems appealingly incorruptible and to be a genuine spokesman for the views of the common people. However, he's also promulgating a crude anti-gay ideology and perhaps advancing an as-yet-unknown nefarious agenda.
Cersei is not a cartoon villain but a person with a genuine problem
Cersei is, at this point, not a cartoon villain but a person with a genuine problem. With her father dead, the masterful diplomacy that won the War of the Five Kings has left House Lannister dangerously dependent on its nominal vassals. She has no real way to enforce her rule in the North, or in the Vale, and she's in a very difficult situation vis-à-vis the Tyrells. By changing Margaery into a much more active and self-possessed character than she is in the book, the television adaptation has brought some real drama and stakes to a plotline that the novels handle a bit clumsily.
There are no knights in shining armor here, but there are also no Ramsay Boltons. Just human beings, caught up in a Game of Thrones they know they can't afford to lose.
And it's great.
Contemplating the situation in King's Landing does, however, bring me back to the interesting question of the interplay of magic and religion. Much of Westeros appears to be undergoing a trauma-induced awakening, with the smallfolk turning to the Faith for comfort and the Sparrow movement rejuvenating the Faith as an institution.
At the same time, Red Priests of R'hllor (the one true god) are bringing the dead back to life and birthing demon assassins. It's not clear that the Old Gods are doing anything quite so useful, but the (currently paused) plotline with Bran and the Reeds clearly confirms that there's something mystical happening connected to their mythology.
At the moment, mainstream political players in the Seven Kingdoms don't seem any more interested in priests performing miracles than they are in White Walkers or the return of dragons. But clearly these supernatural plot threads are meant to converge over time. Does that mean the Faith is about to be exposed as a fraud, incapable of matching the supernatural achievements of rival traditions? Or does it mean we're about to see septons capable of wielding some mystical powers of their own?
And how does the new High Septon fit into this? In the book I found him to be somewhat of a crude plot device, but on the show he's an intriguingly enigmatic figure. Is going after the Tyrells part of some larger, well-conceived plot (à la Littlefinger), or is he really just lashing out without fear or favor?
The mere fact that I have so many questions about where the King's Landing story is going is why it's my favorite.
Read the recap. Come back soon for more discussion.
Previous entry
Japanese YouTube user inosemarine is internet-famous for a very specific and delightful reason: his dog is a total asshole.
Mari, the real star here, is a precocious Shiba Inu who has mastered the art of trolling her (or his, I'm not sure) master on camera. Here is the video that rocketed Mari to YouTube stardom on Japan's animal-crazy (not that Americans are so different) social media. The premise is simple: Mari's owner wants a kiss. Mari rejects him repeatedly and coldly. It's great:

Here is the sequel, in which Mari finds new and exciting ways to reject and humiliate:

Mari went viral again in March, with a video in which the dog's owner attempts to replicate another Japanese YouTube phenomenon: "Cooking with Dog," a recurring show that is exactly what it sounds like. "Cooking with Dog" is weirdly earnest — people cook in front of a camera, like in any cooking show, except there is a dog sitting on the counter — but Mari's take on it is pretty great:

The above "Cooking with Mari" video is my favorite, but for one last look, here's Mari's over-acting owner trying to get some work done with a little canine help:

If you want more Mari in your life — and, really, who among us would not? — there is an actual full-length Mari DVD that you can order for about $15.
The 2014–'15 TV season ended Wednesday, May 20, and over at Advertising Week, Jason Lynch pulls out the year-end Nielsen ratings data for the big four broadcast networks.
He zeroes in on the numbers in the 18-to-49-year-old demographic — the one advertisers most care about — and as you can see, those numbers are really, really close.

(Todd VanDerWerff/Vox)
The best way to understand these numbers is, roughly, as a percentage. It's somewhat more complicated than that, but for the most part, what you're looking at is the percentage of total 18- to 49-year-olds that watched a network's programming over the past TV season. So 2.4 percent of the time, people between those ages were watching NBC between September of 2014 and May of 2015.
Compare those numbers with the year-end total viewership totals — an estimate of how many total viewers of any age, on average, watched that network — and the space between networks opens up considerably.

(Todd VanDerWerff/Vox)
You can see CBS's conundrum here. More people watch it than any other network, but fewer of those people are the younger viewers advertisers are interested in. Indeed, the show on the network with the lowest median viewer age is 2 Broke Girls, which boasts a median age of 53.
The real value in Lynch's post is that he compares the networks through the years, so you can see just how much the 18–49 ratings gulf has been narrowing in recent years, as more and more young viewers embrace watching on their DVRs or streaming platforms.
Look, for instance, at the final numbers for just five years ago — the 2009–'10 TV season.

(Todd VanDerWerff/Vox)
And look at the 2010 and 2015 numbers side by side.

(Todd VanDerWerff/Vox)
Aside from NBC and Fox swapping positions, what's most interesting here is how much space there was between the top two spots in 2010, then how much space there was between CBS and the bottom two networks. (Also of note: NBC was in last place in 2010 and still posted a better number than its first-place finish in 2015.)
Making the effects of this shrinking audience even worse is the fact that the Nielsen ratings are based on a statistical sample. They don't actually count every viewer in the United States.
Now, Nielsen has an excellent statistical sample, by all accounts, but any time the numbers start getting so small, a change of just a couple of variables can cause enormous fluctuations, which means that small differences between networks might not actually be meaningful — but noise.
As Kyle Killen, a veteran showrunner and ratings follower, put it to me when I talked to him for a story running later: "You will see these things like a 50 percent spike in the ratings of a show, but it's almost meaningless because the numbers you're talking about are so small that them jumping 50 percent feels like noise in the data. It takes very few people to make that jump."
We don't get margins of error for Nielsen ratings. As a friend in the industry put it to me, we tend to think of the Nielsens as an election held every night, when it's really closer to a nightly poll of the viewing audience.
Obviously, nine months' worth of data averaged together is more meaningful than the instant, overnight ratings, but the numbers are still getting so small, so consistently, that very small things can affect them, as we saw when Nielsen revealed it had misreported some numbers for ABC in earlier years.
To that end, it might be more useful to think of the 18–49 numbers for the 2014–'15 season this way: the top three networks finished in what's basically a tie for first place, with Fox just barely missing out. And not one of the four came close to its numbers from just five years ago.
Correction: The original version of this article incorrectly implied that the ratings point measures the percentage of TVs tuned to a certain network. In reality, it simply measures the total possible audience within the demographic specified. The "share" measures the percentage of TVs that are tuned to a certain channel.
To discuss the series finale of Mad Men , culture editor Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by several of Vox's other writers. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here.
Dylan Matthews: Okay, I'll admit it: I hate that Peggy ended up with Stan.
Just about every other character got a resolution that felt fitting. Joan found a business opportunity that was a perfect match for her talents and ran with it, leaving sexy, coke-addled Bruce Greenwood behind when he wouldn't support her. Pete, unhappy in Manhattan, the suburbs, and California alike, decided to bring Trudy along to explore the misery prospects of Kansas.
Sally revealed herself to be the moral center of the Draper family, imploring Don to put his pride aside, give Betty the peaceful death she wanted, and do what was best for Bobby and Gene. Roger, for the first time since Mona, got a partner smart and witty enough to be his equal in the relationship ("Yell at me slower, or in English!"). Don got one last temporary moment of enlightenment that — this being Don — ultimately amounted to little more than inspiration for a commercial.
And Peggy … Peggy got a man.
I see your point, Libby, that having Peggy sign on with Joan wouldn't make a whole lot of sense in the context of their past relationship. Joan thinks Peggy is naive and entitled; Peggy thinks Joan is stubborn and churlish. That's not a strong basis on which to form a partnership.
And what Joan proposed was also not what Peggy wants to be doing with her life. As Peggy told Don earlier this season, she wants to be the first woman creative director of an advertising agency. She wants to land a huge account. She wants to "have a big idea. Create a catchphrase." She wants fame. She wants to "create something of lasting value." None of these are goals best achieved by making industrial films for the likes of Dow Chemical.
But in my heart, I was pulling for Harris Olson all the same. Sure, I had an instinctive desire to see the two great female characters on the show finally band together and take on the world; it wouldn't quite be Alyssa Rosenberg's dream ending of Joan and Peggy driving off in a convertible together to join a lesbian commune in California, but it'd still be quite satisfying.
More than that, though, I wanted Peggy to have an ending like Joan had: one that was about her. Not necessarily one that gave her everything she dreamed of — again, Harris Olson wouldn't fulfill her dreams in the slightest — but one that was at least about her career and let her put it first. Instead, we got an ending that was about her relationship with a man.
It just felt like such a betrayal of who her character is, and the arc she's followed over the course of the show. There are characters on Mad Men whose stories are primarily about their personal lives. Roger was at the apex of his career when the show started, so naturally his marriages and personal drama took center stage. Pete's work appears to be aggressively dull, and the show mercifully avoided highlighting it. And since Betty never got a shot at a career to begin with — at least not until her cut-short stint at psychology graduate school — basically the only stories one could tell about her involved her personal life.
But Peggy's story has always been about work, about advertising, and about the nobility and at times necessity of putting that ahead of the things — children, marriage, domesticity — she was told to value. Even when her relationships were highlighted, they were inextricably intertwined with her career trajectory.
She gave up her and Pete's baby so she could have a life for herself, a real start at a career as a copywriter. Her boyfriend Mark dumped her when she decided to stay late to work on Samsonite with Don, and she pointedly refused when Don urged her to "run to him, like in the movies." Her breakup with Abe was less about the two of them than about her own maturation, achieved in that case by buying a condo for herself (albeit a condo in a dangerous neighborhood where one is wont is accidentally stab one's partner with a makeshift spear upon hearing a suspicious noise). Her takeaway from her relationship with Ted Chaough was that it failed due to the extreme power imbalance in his favor ("Well, aren't you lucky ... to have decisions").
Her relationship with Stan is about work too, of course. But it was about work in exactly the wrong way. In the conversation immediately before their teary confession of mutual love, Stan admonished Peggy for just "wanting to be in charge," reminding her that there's "more to life than work." What a horrible, ugly way to respond to someone expressing totally reasonable ambitions. So what if Peggy wants to be in charge? There's nothing wrong with that, and the line between Stan's hippie slackerism and more traditional criticism of women's ambition is very thin indeed.
And when they reconcile, he's not suddenly supportive. Instead, she starts praising him for "mak[ing] everything okay" and being "always right," implicitly denigrating her own work in the process. Also, when has he ever made anything okay? Yeah, he was nice to her after she told him about her baby, but they only had that conversation because he had nastily implied she'd never have kids, that she "got to a certain point in your life and it didn't happen."
I didn't want Peggy to end up with a guy who tells her, "Every time I'm face to face with you I want to strangle you." I wanted her to end up with someone who actually takes her ambitions seriously. That's not Stan.
Read the recap, and come back throughout the week for thoughts from other writers.
Previous entry
There are lots of reasons the film and television industries are dominated by white men, but one of the most unlikely is one of the centerpieces of Alyssa Rosenberg's fascinating recent piece on Hollywood's diversity problems in the Washington Post.
Writes Rosenberg:
As much as it is tempting to blame Hollywood’s diversity problems solely on the hidebound mindsets of a generation of power brokers, the same laws that protect against employment discrimination also block certain efforts to hire more women and people of color. Networks can set goals for how many female writers they want to hire, or how many characters of color they want to see on screen, but they can’t legally use quotas to reach those goals.
"You can talk in as great a detail as you want—‘The character is a 35-year-old Puerto Rican from the Lower East Side’—but the person you’re looking for can’t be required to be any of those things," explains SAG-AFTRA’s [Adam] Moore. "You’ve got audiences and producers to a certain degree demanding authenticity in what goes on screen. If you put an actor in a role that’s ethically specific and the actor is not that ethnicity, you’ve seen a lot of stuff play out in the press about how this person isn’t Native American, or this person isn’t deaf…They cannot, by federal and state law, ask these questions. ‘Are you Japanese?’ ‘Can I see your tribal affiliation card?’ You can’t do it. Even if it’s for the best reasons possible."
Let me repeat one of Rosenberg's key points: the same laws used to protect against employment discrimination also make it slightly harder to increase diversity in Hollywood, both on screen and off.
Obviously that's not the only reason Hollywood struggles in this regard, and Rosenberg's piece (which is worth reading in full) discusses several others.
But a persistent criticism leveled against casting directors by those in favor of greater, more accurate representation on TV comes when, say, an actor of Chinese descent plays the part of a Japanese person, or when an actor of Italian descent plays someone of Latino origin. Legally, a casting director cannot ask applicants to reveal their ethnic background. A good recent example of this is FX's drama Tyrant, which cast a white actor in the role of the son of a Middle Eastern dictator.
Such laws have served to protect people being hired in certain workplaces — where questions about race, religion, or sexuality could yield answers that spark prejudice or bias on the part of those doing the hiring. But they make certain aspects of Hollywood's attempts to diversify more difficult.
Rosenberg's sources also single out a particular structural problem within Hollywood as holding up efforts to diversify: talent agencies.
Says Terry Lopez, director of diversity for the Writers Guild of America, West, to Rosenberg:
"When I have our members calling me, showrunners, and saying I’m looking for an African-American male writer, they’re obviously not getting that from their agency, and the question is why? Do they not have those clients? If you’ve got a lot of demand, you’re going to have a higher supply. The agencies probably feel they don’t need to have that. We need the agencies to participate. We don’t really know what they’re doing in terms of finding diverse writers."
In short, much of the problem with diversity in Hollywood stems from the fact that so many of the business's gatekeepers are white and male. And that goes for the agencies, too. Because they act as one of the primary filters letting talented people through to have show business careers, they could help foster diversity in the industry. But as Rosenberg's piece suggests, this isn't yet happening.
Every week, a handful of Vox's writers will discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, we'll be hearing from deputy culture editor Jen Trolio, executive editor Matthew Yglesias, foreign policy writer Zack Beauchamp, and culture editor Todd VanDerWerff. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Todd VanDerWerff: Your frustration with Game of Thrones' increasing darkness is interesting, Zack, because it reminds me of this piece by Film Crit Hulk, who, despite the gimmick, is one of the better critics on the internet. (Warning: that post contains some mild spoilers for the books.) What Hulk wrote was that George R. R. Martin, excited by how much the death of Ned Stark had juiced his narrative and made readers gasp, kept endlessly trying to chase that high — but never quite got it back.
See, I think the TV show has reached that point now as well, with everybody involved trying like hell to top the Red Wedding (arguably the show's single biggest moment) and falling short. The problem with these twists is that they all center on misery, and the problem with overloading a story like this with misery is that all of its characters exist under miserable circumstances already.
That's why the response to Sansa's rape has been so extensive. Viewed in isolation, the scene's plot developments make sense, and you could even make an argument for its aesthetics telling a story about women being brutally subjugated in this society. (I would argue that focusing on Theon at the end was a complete mistake, but otherwise I could see it.)
The problem is that it's impossible to watch the scene in isolation. Game of Thrones is full of characters who have survived all manner of trauma, but the show has yet to truly dig into the after-effects of said trauma. (Arguably it's trying to do so with Arya, which may be why she's the character who seems least affected by everything that's happened.) Viewed in that context, it's much harder to imagine that Sansa's rape will be explored with any depth or nuance, until it comes time for her to destroy the Boltons (as you know she inevitably will). Trauma isn't a character study on Game of Thrones; it's a plot point.
Those who believe the angry response to the rape scene is overblown argue that the people who were upset by it apparently don't care about Game of Thrones' endless parade of murder and torture. But that's just the thing — many of us do. I don't know how long I spent during season three feeling frustrated that the show portrayed Theon's torture as a long string of painful incidents, with little focus on what he was actually experiencing.
This, honestly, is a problem endemic to the show, and one that may eventually tear it down. On Game of Thrones, suffering isn't something characters go through; it's something the writers visit on the characters. It often seems as if the show starts from the premise of, What's the worst thing that could happen to this person? and then presses that button over and over again.
There's nothing inherently wrong with this storytelling technique, but when it seems like your only storytelling technique, it eventually becomes wearying and stale. When season five began, I wrote that the show was finally overcoming a fourth season that felt repetitive and stuck in one gear. And that was true for a little while, but in recent episodes Game of Thrones has simply dug back into that big bag to pull out the one trick it knows to play.
I agree with you, Zack, that there are hints of light here and there. The Dorne scenes are fun, and Tyrion and Jorah have made for an inspired pairing at times. Arya's storyline feels like it's just gaining momentum, and I'm definitely ready for some of the characters who've been battered and beaten to seize back some of their agency. But the show has now made me a little jumpy, a little sure that just when things seem to be going one way, it might brutally pull the rug out from underneath us.
A lot has been written this week about the decision by the site the Mary Sue to stop covering the show, outside of occasional news hits. I think, in some ways, this is an abrogation of the site's duty — one of the chief ways to hold a series like Game of Thrones to task is through forceful, forthright criticism that points out its flaws — but at the same time, I sort of understand it. At this point in the show's run, it feels like it does this one thing, and you either like that thing or you don't. But good storytelling is about variety and about empathy for the characters on screen, two qualities that are in increasingly short supply here.
Nonetheless, there was a whole lot more to this episode, even if it's easy to reduce it to that final scene. Anybody have thoughts on anything else that happened?
Read the recap. Come back soon for more discussion.
Previous entry

David Letterman's final show last night was a tribute to the comedian who, as my colleague Todd VanDerWerff wrote last night, "blew up what we thought late-night television could be" and "tore down the hierarchy of stardom."
Perhaps that was why Letterman decided to give four of America's living presidents an opportunity to achieve their dreams of late-night comedy stardom.
In the segment, Presidents Obama, Clinton, Bush, and Dubya Bush all excitedly told Letterman that "our long national nightmare is over" because he is finally retiring.
As with most presidential comedic outings, what they lacked in actual comic timing or particularly clever jokes they made up in clench-jawed dedication to the task at hand. The former presidents appeared to be under the impression that comedy meant placing heavy emphasis on random words in their short lines.
President Obama, on the other hand, seemed to be gunning for a second career as the Insult Comic President, once again displaying the no-I-really-am-this-mean persona that he has used to great effect on Between Two Ferns and The Colbert Report.
Do you love slasher movies? Did you also love the TV show Glee and its parade of guest acting spots by pop stars? Do you, when watching a slasher movie, think, The only way this could be a better movie is if it were actually a TV show and featured some of my favorite Top 40 artists as actors?
Well, you're in luck! In September, Fox will debut Scream Queens, a new horror comedy from Glee creators Ryan Murphy, Brad Falchuk, and Ian Brennan. It's a scoop each of slasher thriller and dark comedy, drizzled with whodunit mystery and sprinkled with familiar faces, including several people you might recognize from their album covers.
On Tuesday, Fox released a three-minute trailer for the series. Here’s what we know so far.

The story takes place at Wallace University in the present day. Twenty years earlier, the college was terrorized by a mysterious killer, who seemed to target the Kappa Kappa Taus, a highly selective sorority on campus.
Now the killer (or a copycat), who disguises him/herself in the university mascot’s red devil costume, is back to frighten a new generation of students. The more pressing issue, though, is that the Kappas are being forced by sorority-hating Dean Cathy Munsch (Jamie Lee Curtis) to relax their stringent membership standards and accept every single pledge, a directive president Chanel Oberlin (Emma Roberts) is less than pleased with. Hazing, murder, and underage drinking ensue.
Ryan Murphy told EW the show is meant to be an homage to 1980s and ‘90s slasher films, as well as a satire of America’s Greek system and the stereotypes of racism and classism that surround it. Curtis's character is a driving force in the latter part, as Murphy explained to EW:
"Jamie Lee plays the dean of the school who has had it up to here with these bitches in the sorority. She’s the dean of students who wants to change the system. She wants to stop the racist status quo that many of the houses in her university have fallen into. She’s a leader and a crusader and might have to shutdown the system by literally killing them all."
In the same interview, Murphy also said he meant for the show to appeal to those who find American Horror Story too gory, saying Queens will have the scares without all the blood and guts.

Emma Roberts as Chanel #1. (Screenshot via YouTube)
Series creators Ryan Murphy, Brad Falchuk, and Ian Brennan have worked together before. Murphy and Falchuk collaborated on several shows, including Nip/Tuck, Glee, and American Horror Story, as well as the upcoming American Crime Story; Brennan was a writer, producer, and director on Glee.
AHS regular Emma Roberts appears to be having the time of her life as Queen Bee Chanel #1 (a part Murphy wrote for her), tossing off bon mots like "Pissy Spacek" and referring to her new potential pledges as "idiot hookers." Glee’s Lea Michele appears thoroughly de-glammed, wearing a neck brace and frumpy outfits.
A 15-episode season of Scream Queens has been ordered, with each installment bumping off a new character and offering fresh clues about who the killer might be. As Murphy said to EW, "There’s a real tune-in factor because it’s like, Who’s going to be picked off this week? And also who is the killer?" Emma Roberts, in a separate EW interview, explained that even the cast isn't in on the outcome until filming: "What I love is you really don’t know who is the killer and you don’t know who is going to die."
The series is billed as an anthology, like American Horror Story. But unlike AHS, which starts over each season with entirely new characters, Ryan Murphy has said the characters who survive season one of Scream Queens can appear in the next.
Scream Queens has been described as Halloween meets Mean Girls, but there are other clear influences, as well. The university setting and Murphy’s penchant for pop culture bromides and meta-humor recall Wes Craven’s Scream movies, and heroine Grace (Skyler Samuels) has some similarities to that franchise's Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell). For instance, both have suffered the loss of their mothers.

Nothing's scarier than a clique in matching outfits. (Screenshot via YouTube)
The Kappa mean girls, meanwhile, are all called (and outfitted in) Chanel in a clear homage to the titular name-sharing clique in the 1988 classic Heathers. As in that movie, Scream Queens seems to play its violence mostly for laughs — the trailer shows a pledge buried up to her neck in the Kappas’ backyard getting decapitated by a ride-on lawnmower, a potentially gruesome moment immediately undercut by comic relief. And the hyper-stylized costumes and candy colors call to mind another dark teen comedy, 1999’s mostly forgotten (sadly) Jawbreaker.
If you’ve been looking for something to fill the Rodgers & Hammerstein-size hole the end (and/or gradual collapse) of Glee left in your heart, this show may not be what you’re looking for: it does not, by current appearances, include any scenes where characters burst into song.
However, its cast does include several actors who can sing. Glee's Lea Michele is one of the unfortunate KKT pledges, alongside singer/actress Keke Palmer; Ariana Grande plays mean girl Chanel #2, and Nick Jonas appears with his shirt off, if you’re into that kind of thing.

See? No shirt! (Screenshot via YouTube)
Scream Queens also features several other famous faces: in addition to Halloween's Jamie Lee Curtis as the salty Dean Munsch, Niecy Nash appears as a campus police officer, Little Miss Sunshine’s Abigail Breslin is Chanel #2, and Saturday Night Live’s Nasim Pedrad plays Gigi (her role isn’t totally clear, but she appears to be connected to the sorority).
Scream Queens premieres on Fox in September. Watch the trailer above.
If you expected David Letterman's final outing as the host of a late-night talk show to be a sarcastic rip on the whole idea of series finales or an ironic deconstruction of their spectacle, you might have been disappointed in the host's last-ever Late Show, which aired Wednesday, May 20, 2015, on CBS.
The episode — which ran nearly an hour and 20 minutes — was a sentimental gush, a walk down memory lane that saw Letterman replaying some of his favorite clips and enjoying one last visit from the Foo Fighters, one of his favorite bands.
The episode was a sentimental gush, a walk down memory lane
But in this era of over-the-top series finales, it was nice to see something so low-key and relatively humble. Key to Letterman's appeal has always been the idea that he's just a small-town kid who somehow ended up with a big-time TV show. That came through loud and clear in the last Late Show ever.
Letterman took a page from the playbook of his mentor, Johnny Carson. In 1992, Carson ended his 30-year run on the The Tonight Show with an episode where he sat on stage and reminisced about his favorite moments on the show over the years:

Letterman didn't go that far. His final installment had most of the trappings of a typical Late Show episode. He came out and did one last monologue. The band played him over to his desk. There was a musical guest at the end.
The Top 10 List featured some of Dave's favorite stars saying the things they always wished they could say to him
But for the most part, Letterman spent his series finale introducing clips packages and old gags he particularly enjoyed. He hauled out the tape of him working at a Taco Bell for what felt like the 50th time. (I don't think I've watched a Late Show retrospective that didn't feature Letterman dusting off this particular reel.) He played highlights of him goofing around with small children throughout the years. He aired behind-the-scenes footage of a day in the life of the show.
As such, the episode featured no marquee guests, the one thing it had in common with Carson's sendoff. (Like Carson, Letterman welcomed his final visitors — Tom Hanks and Bill Murray — in the shows leading up to the finale.) The star power, then, was reserved for the Top 10 List, which featured some of Dave's favorite stars coming out to say the things they'd always wished they could say to him.
It was a fond and funny farewell; you can watch it here.
Before introducing one last musical guest, Letterman ran through a long list of all of the people who had made his Late Show what it was, right down to the friend his son brought to the taping. There was a real warmth and sincerity to this moment, but it wasn't a particularly tearful segment.
It was, however, an appropriate lead-in to Letterman's introduction of the Foo Fighters, performing their hit "Everlong," a song that Letterman has frequently credited with helping him get through his recovery from heart surgery. Indeed, it was the first musical number performed on his first show back from his medical leave in 2000.

Instead of focusing on the band performing the song, however, the Late Show used their performance as the soundtrack for a lengthy clip reel of Letterman's entire history in late-night television — all the way back to his NBC days. Some of that footage hadn't aired legally in many, many years, but here it was, attempting to solidify and encapsulate Letterman's legacy.
And it mostly did so. As the song continued, the footage transitioned into the CBS years, featuring favorite guests of Letterman's who've passed away over his 33 years on the air, from bit player Calvert DeForest to the legendary Robin Williams. It was a stirring, memorable sendoff — one that, if nothing else, reminded you that, holy shit, David Letterman has been part of the late-night landscape for 33 years.
You can watch it below:

One of the most common refrains I've seen on social media recently is that Letterman isn't as relevant in 2015 as he was in even 2005, to say nothing of 1995 or 1985.
You can make a real argument that he completely and utterly changed television
There's some truth to this. The kind of anti-comedy that Letterman pioneered — in which he did dumb stuff and hoped that the fact that he was getting paid to do it on television would provide all the humor — is now so ubiquitous that it almost seems as if the man who popularized it has lost a step. Letterman has also shifted from the wackier experimentation of his first two decades on the air toward the sort of topical and political humor that he generally avoided back then. That has made his show feel ever-so-slightly safer.
But the final Late Show seemed wholly dedicated to reminding you of both how long Letterman had been on the air and how bracing a presence he was in his NBC days and roughly the first 10 years of his CBS tenure. He even played long-lost footage from the days when he hosted a morning show for NBC, long before he wound up in late-night. You can make a real argument that he completely and utterly changed television, and if he didn't want to make that argument himself, he was content to let the footage do it for him.
Letterman blew up what we thought late-night television could be. He tore down the hierarchy of stardom as it existed on TV, and he replaced it with a wink and an irony-drenched chuckle. He eventually gave way to the hugely topical Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert, and now the celebrity-obsessed Jimmy Fallon. But he created a new way of looking at late-night TV, and maybe even TV in general — with less of a focus on fueling the celebrity-delivery mechanism and more on building a gigantic, wacky playground.
It's available on CBS's website.
David Letterman's final Late Show aired Wednesday, May 20, 2015 on CBS, and that meant one thing: a final top 10 list.
The theme was, "Things I've always wanted to say to Dave," as delivered by some of the show's most famous friends, including Alec Baldwin, Barbara Walters, Jerry Seinfeld, and a heavily bearded Jim Carrey, among others. Did the guest list feel like a roster of 1995's biggest all-stars? Sure — minus the slightly more modern Tina Fey and Peyton Manning. But that was part of its charm.
In recent years, the Top 10 List has felt more and more like a dutiful chore Letterman crosses off the list every night, but he and his writing staff brought it for their final installment.
It's worth watching in full, especially for the moment when Julia Louis-Dreyfus says, "Thanks for letting me take part in another hugely disappointing series finale" before the camera cuts to Seinfeld right behind her.
Also, this:

(CBS)
The complete Top 10 List follows.
10. Delivered by Alec Baldwin: "Of all the talk shows, yours is most geographically convenient to my home."
9. Delivered by Barbara Walters: "Did you know that you wear the same cologne as Muammar Qaddafi?"
8. Delivered by Steve Martin: "Your extensive plastic surgery was a necessity and a mistake."
7. Delivered by Jerry Seinfeld: "I have no idea what I'll do when you go off the air ... You know, I just thought of something. I'll be fine."
6. Delivered by Jim Carrey: "Honestly, Dave, I've always found you to be a bit of an over-actor."
5. Delivered by Chris Rock: "I'm just glad your show is being given to another white guy."
4. Delivered by Julia Louis-Dreyfus: "Thanks for letting me take part in another hugely disappointing series finale."
3. Delivered by Peyton Manning: "You are to comedy what I am to comedy."
2. Delivered by Tina Fey: "Thanks for finally proving men can be funny."
1. Delivered by Bill Murray: "I'll never have the money I owe you."
To discuss the series finale of Mad Men , culture editor Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by several of Vox's other writers. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here.
Amanda Taub: Mad Men is over. I laughed. I cried. I googled "hotels in Big Sur how much to go to one right now."
Libby, I had a very similar reaction to yours while watching this episode. Having seen all of these characters struggle for so long, I was happy to leave them in moments of happiness.
On another show, that happiness might have felt like fan service. But on this one it didn't. We've seen all of these characters have moments of triumph in the past, only to squander them or see them snatched away. We know all too well that this could all be temporary.
Peggy's relationship with Stan could splinter, devastating her personally and professionally. Joan's business could fail. Pete will probably find a way to ruin his marriage again. Roger has chosen an appropriate partner, but hasn't necessarily learned how to be one. And Don has always struggled to hang on to his California clarity once back in New York.
But at the same time, all of the characters' happiness felt like it had a weight to it that we hadn't seen before — an earned stability that might at least make these moments last a little longer.
Joan's arc was especially pleasing, because it was simultaneously well-earned and surprising. Her production company plays to her strengths extraordinarily well. This is the rare happy version of a "people never change" arc on Mad Men, because Joan has always been able to manage people and tasks with effortless ease. Remember "Shut the Door, Have a Seat," when everyone else was sitting around trying to figure out how to sneak off to found their new agency, until Joan marched in, announced that she had made a list and hired movers, and got the show on the road? Of course this is a woman who can start a business.
Joan hasn't changed, but the world around her has — whereas once her competence at reviewing TV scripts created a job for a man to replace her, now her competence at management is creating a business niche for her to dominate. That's the surprise — the world may not have changed enough to get rid of creeps like Ferg Donnelly, but it has changed just enough to let Joan run circles around them. (#TeamHollowayHarris)
That's thrilling to see. But the show has spent years laying the groundwork for this development. That means it doesn't feel like an unearned happy ending, it feels like an earned moment of optimism.
And in the end, that's what I want for these characters. I don't need to see Peggy have it all, but it was a joy to see her love someone who not only loves her for the things she herself values most, but also knows her deepest secret: that she got pregnant, secretly gave birth, and gave the baby up for adoption.
Don's inability to confront his past destroyed his relationships with the people he loved, over and over again. But Peggy's new relationship won't be tainted by the original sins of secrecy or shame. That might not be enough to make the relationship last, but it is enough to make it significant in her life now, and that still matters.
And what about Don? Last week I said that I was skeptical that he would reach his happy ending, because he seemed to be committing Mad Men's "ultimate sin": a refusal to change with changing times. The 1960s persona he had created was out of step with the 1970s, and his road trip seemed to be taking him back in time, not forward. And for most of the finale, he clung resolutely to the past: even when he arrives at the institute in Big Sur with Stephanie, he's dressed in a slim '60s-style polo shirt and slacks. He looks totally old-fashioned even compared to ordinary people from the 1970s, and completely at odds with the hippies surrounding him at the retreat.
But it turned out that the happy ending reached him, despite his best efforts to evade it. He hits rock bottom and reveals his worst secrets to Peggy, but when he gets to the final, worst sin on his list — that he stole another man's name and made nothing of it — Peggy tells him with quiet certainty that that's not true. And it isn't. Don may be a terrible father and husband, and a deeply unreliable colleague, but that doesn't mean he has made nothing of his life. Peggy's own career is a testament to that, as is Sally's calm maturity in a time of crisis. And so is Don's own work: turning an act of consumption into an act of love may literally cheapen love, but it also makes it more accessible. That's not nothing. It's powerful.
And that seems to be the thing Don finally realizes during that last group session. Much has been made of the fact that Don breaks down and embraces milquetoast office worker Leonard after he compares himself to a product in a refrigerator. But in watching the scene, the moment Don actually reacts to is when Leonard talks about how desperate he is to feel loved, and his realization that he is loved, he just isn't able to recognize it.
Leonard explains that he fears "no one cares that I'm gone," and the camera cuts to Don, who feels this so deeply that he physically jerks, as if he has been shocked.

Don recoils when he hears Leonard describe his emotions. (AMC)
And then Leonard goes on, giving voice to a perfect encapsulation of Don's true problem, the real reason he "only likes the beginning of things," the real reason he's always searching for something new that will satisfy his craving:
They should love me. Maybe they do. But I don't even know what it is. You spend your whole life thinking that you're not getting  it. That people aren't giving it to you. ... And then you realize, they're trying. And you don't even know what it is.
Like the other characters' happy final moments, Don's realization in the session feels grounded in the show's history. No one can accuse Mad Men of being subtle with its themes, so anyone who has seen the show knows Don is always searching for love and approval but cannot appreciate it when he gets it. And the show has also made clear that he wants this road trip to be a new moment of reinvention, a way to shed the trappings of the "Don Draper" character that has become such a burden for him.
But it's also surprising to see Don realize just how much of "Don Draper" is real, not a construct. Megan once told him that "nobody loves Dick Whitman, but everybody loves Don Draper," and he angrily dismissed her. But now, in the end, he is realizing how true that was: Don Draper has people in his life who love him, and have been saying so, but he hasn't been listening.
And the real Don Draper is an ad man. As it turns out, when Don searches deep inside his soul, he finds a Coca-Cola ad. The world has given him a revelation that has brought him peace. In return, he wants to buy it a Coke.
Read the recap, and come back throughout the week for thoughts from other writers.
Previous entry
Next: Dylan dissents on Peggy and Stan

Every week, a handful of Vox's writers will discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, we'll be hearing from deputy culture editor Jen Trolio, executive editor Matthew Yglesias, foreign policy writer Zack Beauchamp, and culture editor Todd VanDerWerff. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Zack Beauchamp: My first reaction to watching this week's episode was simple, emotional, and visceral: Ramsay has to die. I imagine I wasn't alone.
Yet I'm not sure he will — and that's actually a big problem. Game of Thrones is obsessed with its own darkness, delighted with letting evil go unpunished. And that's getting in the way of good storytelling.
We can trace the issue back to two of the show's best moments: Ned's execution in season one and the Red Wedding in season three. What made them so genius was the way they upended expectations — in this kind of story, the heroes aren't supposed to die. The noble-but-doomed cause is never actually doomed.
But now, as viewers, we're jaded. We expect Game of Thrones to be an exercise in Murphy's law. The triumph of evil, or at least amorality, isn't shocking. Instead, it's mostly exhausting.
I'm worried, though, that showrunners David Benioff and D. B. Weiss haven't picked up on this. Ramsay has spent the past few seasons being Nazi-level cruel, and he's only come up in the world. The growing dissent at the Wall looks bad for Jon. Ser Barristan died, and Daenerys must now sort out a brutal insurgency with no exit plan and no (obedient) dragons. Jorah has greyscale. Littlefinger (eww) is ascendant.
In short, things look really grim.
And if they keep getting worse, there's nothing to stop Game of Thrones from becoming the simple inverse of a boring morality tale. The series is famous for its moral ambiguity, for illustrating that purity can have terrible consequences and that ruthless pragmatism is sometimes the best way to get ahead. And that's interesting! But in narrative terms, "everything is terrible" is just as boring and predictable as "everything is awesome."
The show hasn't fallen into this trap quite yet. Take Dorne — which, Matt, you brought up in your last post. So far, I've really enjoyed our trips there. Jaime and Bronn's bromance is a wonder. Prince Doran's seemingly more humane approach to power ("we do not mutilate little girls for vengeance") actually gives us someone new to like, especially if gender roles in the show's Dorne resemble those in the books. Even the color palette, with its bright greens in the Water Gardens and sunny sands in the desert, paints a happy contrast to the dourness up north. There's potential in Dorne, even if right now the developments there feel pretty irrelevant to the rest of the narrative.
Game of Thrones has proven that it can do happy, or something like it, pretty well.     One of my favorite arcs on the show so far is Tyrion's rise to power in King's Landing, just before the Battle of the Blackwater. At the time, Tyrion was a ruthless bastard and nobody's idea of a conventional hero. But he was genuinely trying to make things better, and it was damn entertaining to watch him succeed — if only temporarily.
Now, part of the reason that worked is that Tyrion is such a great character (and Peter Dinklage such a great actor). But at this point, the show is full of great characters. Who wouldn't want to see Sansa manipulate her way to power in the North, rather than remain a victim? Is Jon more interesting as a third act in the Ned-and-Robb Stark play, or as someone who actually learned the lessons of his family's failure? And why, oh why, does Daenerys need to be separated from her dragons again?
If I sound frustrated, it's because I am, a little. Game of Thrones still a great show, but it's at risk of getting too dark for its own good — a problem that, incidentally, ruined the last two of George R. R. Martin's books. Luckily, the show is now so radically different from its source material that we can only hope things end up differently.
Todd, do you think I'm onto something here? Or am I overreacting to one deeply painful episode?
Read the recap. Come back soon for more discussion.
Previous entry

The clip above is from David Letterman's ninth-ever show as a late-night talk show host. It aired February 15, 1982, and showcases everything that's brilliant about the man as a TV host in just over five minutes.
Letterman, who hosts his final Late Show on CBS Wednesday, May 20, 2015, took some time to become the TV fixture he is today. His early TV career involved a role in the ensemble cast on Mary Tyler Moore's short-lived variety series Mary, as well as a guest spot on Mork & Mindy. In the early '80s, NBC gave him a morning show, but his restless creativity was all wrong for an audience that largely consisted of housewives and retirees. The show was quickly canceled, but NBC clearly recognized it had a major talent on its hands.

Letterman's hour finally arrived — literally — when the network shifted him to an after-midnight time slot, where he'd follow Johnny Carson's Tonight Show as part of a complicated deal to keep Carson on the air. (Carson had long wanted control of the time slot immediately after his, and his production company would produce Letterman's new show.)
Late Night With David Letterman would hit the air February 1, 1982, and television would never be the same. Even in that first outing, Letterman's talent was evident.

The most notable thing about Letterman is the way he simply assumed his audience had grown up with television and knew it backward and forward. For the most part, television in the pre-Letterman era was built on the idea of showbiz glamour. There were the big-time stars, there were the TV personalities who brought them to us, and there was everybody else. That hierarchy maintained its sway from TV's infancy until the 1980s.
Letterman, however, was fascinated with the idea that simply putting something on television made it part of pop culture, and he loved the notion of demystifying the medium for his viewers. The whole of his NBC morning show — and the finer moments of his CBS late-night show — were about deconstructing television itself.
There's ample evidence of this in that first clip above, from his ninth episode of Late Night on NBC.
Seeing things from Letterman's point of view, we get the sense that we're going "behind the scenes," even if it's mostly an excuse for some high-concept jokes (like the idea that he would make Brazilian viewers more comfortable by saying "Arriba"). When his "guest," a man named "Bert, the human caboose" (played by longtime Letterman fellow Calvert DeForest), arrives, the whole joke is that this man's tragic story — he was dragged behind a train — is flattened into pap by the all-consuming power of TV.
Except the joke is ultimately on Letterman, whose perspective we're watching through. He's clearly unprepared for what's happening, his mind occupied with all of the other distractions his staffers threw at him.
There's also the fascination with the way TV is made and consumed. Yes, the segment is filled with jokes, but we're really seeing the way TV is made, the way the cameras move, almost dance-like, to new positions, or the way cue cards sit off to the side of the host's eyeline. Letterman was producing a show for a young audience that had never lived in a time without television — one of the first audiences that could honestly say that. As such, he delighted in stretching the template to its breaking point while, nevertheless, revealing how the magic happened.
Letterman wasn't without antecedents, particularly the similarly experimental Ernie Kovacs. But because of when his show aired and because of the audience he attracted, he was able to build on that foundation to create a TV show that was simultaneously in awe of and slightly amused by the very idea of having a TV show in the first place.
David Letterman will air his last show tonight, and with it, he'll retire the Top Ten List forever. When it first aired on September 18, 1985, the list wasn't just a collection of halfhearted zingers — it was far more conceptually bizarre than what we see on the show today.
But for a dumb skit, it has a surprisingly confusing origin story.
Due to the fog of history, the trolling of Letterman writers, or a bit of both, we have surprisingly little idea of who came up with the idea for the Top Ten List. Brian Abrams tells the story of the Top Ten List in his Kindle Single AND NOW...An Oral History of "Late Night with David Letterman," 1982-1993, and it turns out nobody can agree on how the recurring bit began.
We do know that the first list was a delightfully random bit of comedy that would have been far too weird for any other show:
Dave's first big list was a perfect example of his early humor.
Javier Zarracina/Vox
Letterman had hosted Late Night since 1982, so the bit came after he had a little experience honing his voice. You can see Dave present the list in an appropriately sketchy video.
The first Top Ten Lists were just as amazingly bizarre as the original:
From there, things get a lot more confusing.
The list of theories about the origin of Letterman's Top Ten List is extensive:
But beyond all the squabbling, O'Donnell notes the most important distinction between the first Lists and what the List became: "Whatever it was, you can at least see that the first lists were not a bunch of jokes about John Boehner and Harry Reid. They were supposed to be conceptual, this weird mixture."
That may be why the first list is still pretty funny, even today.
People around the world take millions and millions of different photos each year — often  of the exact same thing. There are so many, in fact, that researchers from the University of Washington and Google realized they could stitch these photos together into what are essentially time-lapse videos.
The authors of a recent paper, Ricardo Martin-Brualla, David Gallup, and Steven M. Seitz, basically "mined" 86 million different photos and put together ones that were taken at roughly the same location. From there, they wrote a program that created a time lapse of the photos. You can see the years progress at the bottom of each GIF below.
These photos, stitched together, show a building being constructed in New York:

A building being constructed. (Via YouTube)
A Norwegian glacier disappearing:

A glacier melts away. (Via YouTube)
The foliage on San Francisco's Lombard Street:

Lombard Street blooms. (Via YouTube)
Las Vegas glowing over the years:

Las Vegas glows. (Via YouTube)
And the seasons changing in a garden:

A garden blooms. (Via YouTube)
The researchers further describe the process in a video:

You can read more about the process at Wired, where they describe how the researchers filtered out photos with people or those with day and night scenes. As we all take more and more photos every day, it will only get easier to create crowdsourced time lapses like these.
(Hat tip to Laughing Squid for pointing out the video.)
To discuss the series finale of Mad Men , culture editor Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by several of Vox's other writers. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here.
Libby Nelson: One of Mad Men's most prominent themes has been its characters' ambiguous relationships with motherhood, particularly in an era when having children was the default for most women.
The Mad Men landscape is littered with mothers who abandon their children, emotionally or literally. Dick Whitman's mother died in childbirth. Roger's daughter, Margaret, left her son with her parents when she took off for the commune, and Roger wrote her out of his will. Diana the waitress left her family, as did the mother of the nameless hippie who reproaches Stephanie at the retreat. Betty Draper never enjoyed motherhood and probably shouldn't have had children. Stan's mother didn't like him very much.
"You shouldn't have been with a lowlife, you shouldn't have gotten pregnant, you should have loved being a mother," Stephanie says halfway through the finale. She's talking about herself, and how she thinks her parents see her.
But it struck me that that statement could have come out of Betty's mouth, or Peggy's. Mad Men is full of lost children, and women who are mothers because it was their biological and cultural destiny, not their choice.
There are exceptions. Trudy Campbell badly wanted a child and appears to be a devoted and happy mother. Joan's decision to have and raise Kevin largely alone underlined a core theme of her character — that it's a good thing she's reliable, because she's surrounded by people who can't be relied upon.
The "shoulds" of motherhood came up earlier this season, too — in Peggy's stunning conversation with Stan about the stage mother she fought with that turned into her admission that she'd had a baby and given him up for adoption. But that scene served a purpose other than reconciling all of the series' ideas about motherhood. It was the conversation that, to me, made a relationship between the two of them seem inevitable.
Peggy and Stan's grand romantic scene felt as if Nora Ephron had dropped by Matthew Weiner's office and slipped a couple of pages into the script behind his back. Stan's confession of love was cheesy and sudden and glorious. It suggested that two complex and difficult people could end up living happily ever after. In other words, it wasn't Mad Men at all.
I am not ashamed to admit that I loved it.
That's not the case with another fan-pleasing moment dangled before viewers in the final hour. If Peggy and Joan had joined to form Harris Olson, it would have really seemed like audience wish fulfillment.
When it comes to actually working together, rather than separately representing different facets of female empowerment in feminism's second wave, Joan and Peggy's track record is rocky at best. (The slightly cloying tone of their post-McCann interactions rang absolutely true to me; absence makes the heart grow fonder.) Going into business together would have been a middle finger to the patriarchy. But it wouldn't have been true to either of their dreams.
And if our last view of Peggy had been of her march into McCann, I would have been fine with that. A romance with Stan seemed heavily foreshadowed enough that we probably didn't need to see it, and the way it unfolded was certainly unsubtle. But for three minutes and 21 seconds, Mad Men gave me a heart-exploding dopamine rush of pure joy. For all that Mad Men likes to depict darkness, realism, and anomie, joy and love are real parts of the human experience, too; I'm okay with the fact that the finale was broad enough to acknowledge that.
Endings tend to cast everything that came before into a different light, and now I'm stringing scenes from the fifth, sixth, and seventh seasons into a conventional Peggy-and-Stan romantic comedy. (It's actually not that hard!) And that brings us to why Mad Men is so difficult to wrap up: these characters don't have one story that comes to a neat conclusion.
"We tell ourselves stories in order to live," Joan Didion wrote. "We live entirely ... by the imposition of a narrative line upon disparate images, by the 'ideas' with which we have learned to freeze the shifting phantasmagoria — which is our actual experience."
You don't always know what story you're watching until it's over. We thought we were watching Peggy's professional rise, and we were. But we were also watching a pretty conventional romantic comedy about how she started off hating Stan's guts and eventually realized she was in love with him.
We thought we were watching Don Draper get enlightenment, and we were really watching him get the idea for a Coke ad. We thought we were watching Sally grow up and away from her parents, trying to become anyone but Betty, but in fact we were watching her growing stronger, growing up because she's going to need to grow up.
Nobody has just one story. And like life, Mad Men rarely had a neat plot. We're never going to know everything that happens to these characters. I just know that I'll miss them.
Read the recap, and come back throughout the week for thoughts from other writers.
Previous entry
Next: Amanda on those earned happy endings
Amazon's deal with Woody Allen to produce a TV show for the Amazon Prime streaming service is everything that's wrong with the current TV arms race.
Let's leave aside for a moment the horrific accusations made against Allen of molesting his 7-year-old adopted daughter. (I promise we'll get back there.)
The question here is — why on Earth did Amazon want to make a TV series with Woody Allen? The writer/director has shown no real affection for the medium, even though he got his start in show business writing for it. He's made some solid-to-great films in the last decade, sure, but TV requires a very different skill set, one Allen doesn't particularly possess.
What's more, Allen himself admits this, in an interview with Deadline in which he says he's "regretted every second" since he signed the deal with Amazon.
"I never watch television. I don't know the first thing about it," he said. Then, later: "It's been so hard for me. I had the cocky confidence, well, I'll do it like I do a movie ... it'll be a movie in six parts. Turns out, it's not. For me, it has been very, very difficult. I've been struggling and struggling and struggling. I only hope that when I finally do it — I have until the end of 2016 — they're not crushed with disappointment because they're nice people and I don't want to disappoint them. I am doing my best."
Sure, Allen is famously self-deprecating. But what he said to Deadline reads like the words of a man who really does fear he's in over his head. For as much as movie people might not like to admit it, TV and film are vastly different media, and they require vastly different talents. Most great TV showrunners stumble when they try to direct their first films. Why should great directors automatically be able to make great TV?
The answer for why Amazon wants to be in business with Allen is the dark flip side of my argument for why ratings increasingly don't matter to niche outfits. When all a network cares about is media buzz and potential awards attention, it's easy enough to pre-game that system by signing big names who will generate buzz by virtue of having big names. As House of Cards has shown us, you don't even need to make an amazing show for this to happen.
In essence, this is the niche broadcasting version of making a movie based on some beloved superhero. Everybody involved knows the hype that surrounds the product will eventually stand in well enough for the product itself.
It's not just Amazon that's infected with this way of thinking. As I said in my earlier piece, ratings are increasingly less important to pay cable and streaming outlets, because pay cable and streaming outlets are more interested in attracting subscribers to pay monthly or annual fees. And a big part of that attraction, as David Sims argues in The Atlantic, is building an attractive brand viewers will want to subscribe to. This sort of thinking is creeping out to other networks, and it almost always plays off of TV's massive inferiority complex when it compares itself to film.
No one would confuse The Strain with great TV (though it's occasionally fun), but FX put it on the air, among other reasons, so it could list Guillermo del Toro among its stable of creators. Boardwalk Empire landed on the air as a series with a pilot directed by Martin Scorsese, pre-selling it in a way that obscured its very real problems. As much as I'm looking forward to the revival of Twin Peaks, it's not as if TV series revivals have a great track record. And even if I love HBO's Togetherness, there's no way that show ever would have launched if it wasn't from a couple of acclaimed indie film directors.
This trend has been exacerbated by Netflix and Amazon, particularly the latter, which has never met a person best known for work in another medium it couldn't wait to throw money at. Some of these series (Alpha House, from Doonesbury's Garry Trudeau) have been mediocre. Some (Mozart in the Jungle, from a variety of indie film stalwarts, including Jason Schwartzman) have been good.
But all of them have floundered through weaker early episodes that suggest all involved parties were figuring out what a TV show even looks like, trying to break up a movie or longer story into chunks, which often results in clunky, confused storytelling.
Plus, all of this ignores that both services' most acclaimed, breakout series — Orange Is the New Black and Transparent — come from people who have worked extensively in TV: Jenji Kohan and Jill Soloway, respectively. In both cases, women who have TV in their blood were figuring out the possibilities of working within a new format, where they knew viewers would likely have seen all of the prior episodes.
What makes these shows so exciting is not that they're "different" from TV, but that they're built atop a solid foundation of TV-ness, before stretching off in fun, new directions.
There's no reason for a Woody Allen TV show. It would be wonderful if he made a great one, because the world can always use more terrific TV shows. But I find it hard to believe he's somehow going to top the great Woody Allen-esque TV show we already have on the air in FX's Louie (a series that, let's remember, struggles to find viewers). That show's tales of New York life and romantic frustration beautifully encapsulate many of Allen's pet themes in microcosm.
And Louie also comes from a man whose name doesn't lug around with it the whiff of radioactivity. Allen is never going to be punished for the things he's accused of, because they are impossible to prove in a court of law. So his accusers turned him over to the court of public opinion, hoping that public outrage would sink his career.
The pronounced anger that ensued over the Amazon deal is mostly because this simply failed to happen. Nobody who could give Allen lots of money to make movies (or TV shows) turned out to really care, the second it became financially expedient to not care. It's horrifying and craven, and it's easy to see why sexual assault victims are offended.
But Allen's successes in other fields have blinded executives to all of the other reasons that giving him a TV show is a terrible idea. Many movie directors are now opting to move to TV, but there's still a pervasive opinion that television occupies a second-place status to film. There's no good reason to think film people understand TV any better than those who've actually worked in the medium all these years.
If Amazon truly wants to make groundbreaking TV, it shouldn't be trying to sign movie directors. It should be trying to find people who understand the form and what makes it tick.
One of the most consistent criticisms of Mad Men from those who aren't Mad Men fans is that — sniffs derisively — it's only beloved by the coastal media elite, because it's about rich white people who live glamorous lives and work in advertising.
That strain of criticism became all the more pronounced in the buildup to the AMC drama's series finale, with Vulture launching the latest broadside against the show's popularity as author Michael Idov argued that it wasn't truly popular, just overhyped. (To support his claim, he points, in part, to the show's lack of an audience in Russia.)
To some degree, this is true. Back when the series debuted, the media wrote about Mad Men to a level far exceeding its actual ratings. The first season's viewership numbers dipped below the 1 million mark a few times — a much more perilous event in an age when DVRs and streaming services were less prevalent. But by season two, the awards and critical attention Mad Men garnered ended up boosting those numbers to more comfortable levels, and even if the show was never a smash hit, it had a long, healthy run.
Still, there are a bunch of good, mostly reductive reasons for the media to keep, in Idov's words, shoving Mad Men down readers' throats. Here are five.
In my pre-Vox life, I was the TV editor of The A.V. Club, a position that gave me unique insight into what sorts of TV content readers wanted to consume. And every time we wrote about Mad Men, those numbers spiked. The show was consistently among the top five series we wrote about in terms of readership, and a well-timed thinkpiece always had the potential to blow up.
The Mad Men audience overlaps so neatly with the audience of people who read about TV on the internet that the Venn diagram of the two might as well be a single circle
This has carried right over to Vox. We write a lot about the show because there's a huge audience out there ready to devour Mad Men content — far beyond any other show I've written about here that's not Game of Thrones. The Mad Men audience overlaps so neatly with the audience of people who read about TV on the internet that the Venn diagram of the two might as well be a single circle.
Yes, the huge explosion of commentary in the days preceding the show's finale was driven by how much many of us in the media liked the show. But it was also driven by the fact that our readers wanted to see this sort of material. Some of that was an accident of timing.
When Mad Men began, in the summer of 2007, The Sopranos had ended just a few weeks before. The Wire (never as popular in terms of raw readership numbers, though no slouch itself) would end in early 2008. Lost was the king of the recap roost at the time, but those who wrote about it usually focused more on grand, unified theories of why the show worked, rather than the sorts of symbolic interpretations The Sopranos invited.
Mad Men also benefitted from the rise of TV recapping in general
Thus, there was a huge opening in the "reading about TV on the internet" marketplace that was beginning to boom in the late 2000s, and Mad Men filled it as surely as it filled the slots vacated by Sopranos at the Golden Globes and the Emmys. The two shows' thematic concerns, use of dreamlike imagery, and storytelling structure were incredibly similar, which only helped matters.
But Mad Men also benefited from the rise of TV recapping in general. Alan Sepinwall began his seminal blog What's Alan Watching in late 2005, and by that final Sopranos season, dozens of publications were dipping their toes into the recap waters. That number would explode in years to come — and Mad Men was a natural fit for publications that wanted to write TV recaps and people who wanted to read them.
When Mad Men started, it was popular to suggest that the end of The Sopranos, the cancellation of HBO's Deadwood, and the impending end of The Wire signaled the end of TV's Golden Age. (Sound familiar?) Instead, Mad Men and later Breaking Bad picked up that ball and ran with it, while FX entered the early stages of a hot streak that continues to this day.
But, really, in that summer of 2007, the established shows worth writing about were few and far between — especially if you didn't want to publish weekly, in-depth reviews of comedies (a later development, largely driven by content-hungry sites like, well, The A.V. Club). They were essentially limited to The Wire, Dexter, Lost, Heroes, 24, Grey's Anatomy, and maybe Veronica Mars (if your readership was especially young). Thus, it was easy to get the "serious TV" audience to tune in to Mad Men, because there weren't a ton of other options.
Mad Men suggested every cable channel should have its own scripted drama series in development — and now they pretty much all do
Contrast that to today, when a show like The Americans can't get the same sort of readership traction as Mad Men (even though it has a loyal, dedicated audience that likes reading about it), simply because there's so much more stuff out there. This most recent season of that FX drama received the kind of acclaim Mad Men did in its heyday — but it's much, much harder for a series to cut through the noise from all those other shows out there. Mad Men suggested every single cable channel should have its own scripted drama in development — and now they pretty much all do.
Though it never pulled in Big Bang Theory numbers, AMC told Vulture's Joe Adalian that at the show's height, a total of just under 7 million people watched it. That number's not insignificant, and even a tiny percentage of that audience consistently reading pieces about the show online would be more than enough to drive significant traffic to most websites — especially back in 2007, when the overall online readership was smaller.
As my colleague Matthew Yglesias wrote about the popularity of Bernie Sanders' presidential candidacy online, a small but rabidly passionate audience for a particular topic can be lifeblood to a website that craves readers. What holds true for Sanders is also true for Mad Men: there are very few casual Mad Men fans. And those passionate fans tend to seek out everything they can find about the show.
Early on, the media positioned Mad Men as a sort of lifestyle choice
The media is, of course, at least somewhat complicit in this. Early on, we positioned the series as a sort of lifestyle choice — if you were cool, you would watch Mad Men. But TV sites have said that about a lot of shows over the years, and few of them held up, readership-wise, as well as Mad Men did. (Whither Boardwalk Empire?) Yes, the early push might have been a bit much, but Mad Men ended up having the goods — at least for the people who cared about it.
I agree with the theoretical concerns behind the criticisms of media coverage of Mad Men. Those of us who write about television do too often ignore the shows that a majority of Americans are actually watching, shows like The Big Bang Theory and NCIS and even Empire.
But the kinds of people who read our websites are also far more likely to want to take a deep dive into the latest episode of Mad Men than they are to want to read a careful analysis of even several episodes of NCIS. (Believe me. I've tried.) The answer to why the media keeps pushing Mad Men on the people is simple: the people keep pushing it on us.
Every week, a handful of Vox's writers will discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, we'll be hearing from deputy culture editor Jen Trolio, executive editor Matthew Yglesias, foreign policy writer Zack Beauchamp, and culture editor Todd VanDerWerff. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Matthew Yglesias: I think Sansa's fate in this scene is bound to be one where readers and non-readers of the books have somewhat different views. The plotline at Winterfell is pretty divergent from George R. R. Martin's original text at this point, but assuming the TV adaptation has some obligation to hit similar beats, the writers managed to come up with something considerably less gruesome than what's on the page. But really the best I can say about this material is that when you put the rape in the context of Theon's torture and mutilation earlier in the series, Ramsay's storyline is off the rails and unappealing in ways that aren't necessarily gender-specific.
And unlike some of the other sexualized violence in the story, there is kind of a plot point to this.
We're seeing that while Roose Bolton is just immoral and unscrupulous enough to get ahead in this rough-and-tumble world, Ramsay is far too depraved to restrain himself, even temporarily, for political gain.
One issue the scene brought to mind for me, however, is Game of Thrones' rather ginger handling of the larger question of marital rape in cases where neither party is a sociopath but both are participants in a culture where arranged marriages are the norm. Sansa's fate, from birth, was to be married off to some eligible young bachelor from another house in order to suit a political agenda determined by her father. When, in the series' early episodes, it appeared this meant betrothal to the heir apparent to the Iron Throne, Sansa was quite pleased. But obviously even the most ideal arranged marriage can hardly be considered consensual by any contemporary understanding of what that means.
Even a genuinely happy marriage, such as apparently existed between Ned Stark and Catelyn, takes place against a backdrop of pervasive coercion. Catelyn probably considered herself to have won a lucky match. And in many ways she did. But "luck" in these circumstances is purely relative. There was never any question of her actually having a say in her own fate.

Trystane and Myrcella seem pretty pleased with their circumstances, even if they didn't have a say in them. (HBO)
That's why, in some ways, I found the scene of Myrcella and Trystane happily flirting and making out in the garden to be equally irksome.
It's not hard to watch in the same way that a rape is. But portraying it as such a familiar case of happy young love seems like a whitewash of Westerosi culture writ large. The conventional explanation for why Game of Thrones needs to depict instances of wanton cruelty toward women is that it's true to the quasi-medieval spirit of the setting. But the show doesn't really carry that through into the "normal" space, where your Myrcellas and Catelyns and various Frey daughters are chattel ferried back and forth by fathers and brothers.
Which brings us, at last, to the Sand Snakes of Dorne.
I found the book version of the Dorne plot to be tedious, and while Game of Thrones has done a good job of making it non-tedious, I worry that D. B. Weiss and David Benioff have altered it at the expense of making it incomprehensible. To me, the Snakes seem to have been conjured up as a pastiche of girl power clichés rather than properly introduced. Everyone's motives are totally obscure, and the books' political plot has been reduced to a pretty basic revenge fantasy. In terms of economizing on complications, I get it. But given the show's touchy relationship with gender issues, it's a shame that the one slice of Westeros that has a somewhat different view of women's role in society is being compressed like this.
Lastly, on a more trivial note, the handling of the Dornish accent drives me crazy. Why would they speak the Common Tongue with a "foreign" accent if a) every other region of Westeros speaks with a regional accent from the British Isles, and b) the Dornish use the Common Tongue when conversing in private with each other? It is true that Dorne is portrayed in the books as quasi-Mediterranean in its climate and culture, what with the grapes and the wine and all. But there are plenty of Anglophone  wine-growing regions. The Dornish should speak with a South African or Australian accent.
Accents aside, what do you think of what's happening in Dorne, Zack? I'm having trouble getting emotionally invested, but I suppose I'm curious as to where we're headed with Jaime in captivity and a key element of book-Doran's scheme missing entirely from the show.
Read the recap. Come back soon for more discussion.
Previous entry

1) Now that we've seen a few examples of Facebook's Instant Articles product, I find myself less sanguine than Timothy Lee, but more optimistic than John Herrman. They both make good points, though!
2) It is strange how new people seem to think it is for journalists to host their content through a third party. But consider the sheer amount of journalistic time and energy that goes into producing native content for Twitter.com with absolutely no revenue prospects whatsoever. Or consider the fact that most publications — including Vox — upload all videos to YouTube, which takes a much deeper cut of ad revenue than what Facebook is taking, at least right now.
3) Speaking of which, you should subscribe to Vox's YouTube channel!
4) Facebook’s Instant Articles do offer publishers a way to make money off their content — 100 percent of revenue on ads the publication sells, and 70 percent on ads Facebook sells. That’s a … really good split! But let’s be real, those revenue terms won’t last forever. Will they?
5) Perhaps Facebook isn’t trying to gain leverage over the news business so it can eventually squeeze our comparatively meager revenues. Perhaps it's decided that offering news businesses a technological subsidy and a favorable ad split if they route more of their content directly through Facebook is a cheap way to incentivize the production of a tremendous amount of high-quality content that will keep people coming back to Facebook.
6) The news media keeps seeing Facebook's move in terms of Facebook's plans vis-a-vis the news media, but maybe the real target here is Twitter, YouTube, Snapchat, and basically everywhere else that people go to waste time on the internet. Maybe the ever-escalating war for attention has made the media, with its specialization in producing content people want to read/watch, the belle of the ball.
7) A more sinister version of the previous thought: perhaps this is a cheap way to lobby the media (and, through the media, the political system) on Facebook’s behalf.
8) My biggest worry about Instant Articles is the potential for a chilling effect on media innovation. How does a card stack work as an Instant Article? How about a data interactive? The initial articles are thick with bells and whistles, but as Facebook opens its publishing tool to more partners, it will probably need to standardize the features. Instant Articles will look more like each other than articles on different publishers' websites do right now.
9) Of course, Facebook isn’t making anyone use Instant Articles. Publishers can do whatever they want. But if you’re a publisher, why would you pump tremendous resources into an article format that’s going to perform unusually badly on Facebook?
10) The problem Facebook is trying to solve is a real one: news websites load slowly, and that’s bad for users, particularly mobile users. But one reason news sites load all that stuff is that publishers have added functionality that, in theory, makes their sites work better for users. If Facebook optimizes for speed and publishers optimize for Facebook, then the rate of innovation in how information actually gets delivered will slow, as anything new and complex a publisher tries will come with a Facebook penalty.
11) That wouldn't be particularly abnormal. Pretty much all communication technologies begin with an explosion of format innovation and then end up pretty standardized as certain technological paths and business models win out. Consider why pretty much all TV is blocked out into 30-minute or one-hour chunks, for instance. But it would be a shame to see journalism head in that direction at the exact moment we're seeing so much fantastic rethinking of the article form.
US Senator Claire McCaskill (D-Missouri) is an avid Twitter user and apparently a long-time watcher of HBO's Game of Thrones. But no longer:

Ok, I'm done Game of Thrones.Water Garden, stupid.Gratuitous rape scene disgusting and unacceptable.It was a rocky ride that just ended.

She's far from the only viewer upset by the scene in question from "Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken" and Vox's Jen Trolio argues that viewers are right to be angry.
Every week, a handful of Vox's writers will discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, we'll be hearing from deputy culture editor Jen Trolio, executive editor Matthew Yglesias, foreign policy writer Zack Beauchamp, and culture editor Todd VanDerWerff. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Jen Trolio: By now, Game of Thrones has conditioned us to expect the worst from weddings, but the brutal start to Sansa Stark and Ramsay Bolton's marriage in the final scene of "Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken" added a new layer of horror to the show's history of unhappy nuptials. Being fatally poisoned at your own reception almost seems preferable to what Sansa experienced — rape at the hands of her new husband while Reek/Theon was forced to watch — and there are so many issues at play in the aftermath of the awful event that I'm struggling to make sense of them all.
One of the primary questions I've been mulling is what the rape scene was intended to achieve. I have not read George R. R. Martin's Song of Ice and Fire novels, so I didn't know what Ramsay had in store for his new bride, regardless of the major change in victim between the books and the show (and the fact that what happened in print was apparently much worse). I'm also not one to shy away from difficult subject matter just because it's difficult subject matter.
But as of this moment — we don't yet know what repercussions might lie ahead — Sansa's rape feels like little more than a controversial plot device, and to what end? I don't think Game of Thrones is guilty of purposely provoking the ire of the internet, but knowing that any rape scene on any TV series will inevitably do so, it's important to understand what the show was going for. I'm not sure I do.
We were already quite familiar with Ramsay's sadistic tendencies, because of his season-long torture of Theon and, as Myranda the kennel master's daughter reminded us while trying to intimidate — or perhaps warn? — Sansa during bath time, his habit of hunting his former lovers for sport. No one can reasonably argue that Ramsay's rape of Sansa was supposed to reveal his crueler side.
And so, one of my first thoughts while watching that scene was, Is this where Theon finally snaps? In that moment, I thought he might attack, and maybe even kill, Ramsay. Game of Thrones has seemingly been building toward some sort of breaking point for Theon, starting with the uncomfortable dinner scene in last week's "Kill the Boy" (where he dutifully held his tongue as Ramsay told Sansa that he'd murdered her little brothers) and continuing this week as Theon was tasked with walking Sansa down the aisle and then ordered to watch as Ramsay forced himself upon her. Troublesome though it may be, I'm inclined to believe that Ramsay's rape of Sansa is merely a catalyst, meant to bring Sansa and Theon together to plot against him. Thus, even though we don't yet know what happens next, it's easy to see why "Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken" left many viewers asking, "What was the damn point?"
There's also the question of Sansa's agency, which until recently had been increasing by the day. Urged on by Littlefinger (which, ugh — more on him in a second), Sansa willingly agreed to marry Ramsay to avenge her family, only to revert to a more passive stance and ultimately pay a terrible price. It was awesome to see Sansa stand her ground against Myranda, but what a step backward for her to then be raped offscreen as we "watched" through Theon's eyes. Not that I wanted to see it, of course, but I think the scene could've had more of an impact if it'd ended with a close-up on Sansa's face, not Theon's. That close-up left viewers with the impression that her rape was ultimately about him.
And how much blame does Littlefinger deserve for putting Sansa in such a ghastly situation in the first place? The popular assumption is that he must have known Ramsay was dangerous — although Game of Thrones producer Bryan Cogman, who wrote this episode, insists that's not the case. As Cogman told Entertainment Weekly, "[Ramsay's] not known everywhere as a psycho. So Littlefinger doesn’t have the intelligence on him. He knows [the Boltons are] scary and creepy and not to be fully trusted and it’s part of a larger plan."
Okay, sure, whatever; Littlefinger is a guy who's known for keeping tabs on just about everyone on the continent. Between his "I live to serve" chit-chat with Cersei and the fact that his undying devotion to himself is challenged only by his undying devotion to Sansa's late mother, Catelyn Stark, I'm completely confused ... and extremely skeptical. What's this weasel really up to?
This isn’t the first time Game of Thrones has come under fire for its depiction of rape; most recently, a season-four scene between Jaime and Cersei in the crypt that held Joffrey's dead body drew widespread outcry, especially because it was written as more consensual in the books than it was in the show. Now with Sansa and Ramsay, Game of Thrones is seemingly confirming that it has no idea how to use rape as a storytelling device — crass as it may sound, fictional sexual violence can be extremely powerful if managed carefully (see: The Americans) — and rape is just about the worst storytelling device to deploy clumsily.
There's so much riding on what comes next, and on how Sansa's story is handled going forward. I'm a bit frustrated that "Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken" ended on such a contentious note, because future episodes might provide valuable context. But that's the nature of episodic television — go out with a big moment to keep people talking until next week. Either way, I hope the series won't dishonor Sansa by reducing her to a pawn.
What do you think, Matt?
Read the recap. Come back soon for more discussion.
Spoilers follow for the newest episode of Game of Thrones.
This week's episode of Game of Thrones, "Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken," made a major change from the books involving a central character — and has caused quite the controversy among fans of the series.
There's been such heated discussion that George R. R. Martin felt compelled to weigh in on his LiveJournal. Showrunners David Benioff and D. B. Weiss and HBO, he said, are "trying to make the best television series that they can. And over here I am trying to write the best novels that I can."
He continued, "All of us are still intending that in the end we will arrive at the same place." But, he acknowledged, "more and more, they differ." Here are the biggest differences between what happened in "Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken" and what happened in the books.
HBO
Game of Thrones weddings — unrelentingly awful. (HBO)
The harrowing scene that ends this week's episode — in which Ramsay Bolton rapes his new wife, Sansa Stark, while Theon Greyjoy is made to watch — is an invention of the show, but only partly.
Martin's written version of Ramsay's wedding night in A Dance With Dragons is indeed truly horrific. Vox is a family website, so I won't go into details here, but I'll say it may be the most disturbing scene in the entire series. Even worse things are implied to happen to the bride later on.
The big difference, of course, is that the bride on the page is an extremely minor character — a friend of Sansa's named Jeyne Poole, mostly missing since the first book in the series. The show has chosen, instead, to put Sansa herself through these events. Since Game of Thrones has been criticized for its handling of rape in the past, this new development has been hotly debated: Vanity Fair's Joanna Robinson argues that it undercuts Sansa's agency, while Slate's Amanda Marcotte believes the show is finally treating rape "with the gravity it deserves."

In the books, the accusations against Margaery resemble those against Anne Boleyn. (HBO)
Much of this episode is spent on the High Sparrow's "inquest" into whether Loras Tyrell has known the company of men — though eventually, Cersei's true purpose is revealed, as Margaery is suddenly detained by the Sparrows for lying to the gods to protect her brother.
But in the books, Margaery is accused of far more serious crimes. Through torture and scheming, Cersei "persuades" several men to swear they had been Margaery's lovers, accusations that seem to be completely dubious (especially because the Margaery of the books is younger and more innocent). So the Sparrows detain Margaery, not Loras, whom Cersei has tricked into leaving the city. (As I mentioned two weeks ago, Loras's sexuality never becomes a matter of major controversy in the books.)
Also, Margaery's grandmother, Lady Olenna, returns this episode. The character hasn't been seen on the page since her initial departure from King's Landing, but the show understandably couldn't wait to showcase Diana Rigg again. Littlefinger, too, makes a return to King's Landing in this episode that he doesn't make in the books.

Book Obara constantly wants to fight people, but we haven't seen it actually happen yet. (HBO)
The Dorne plotline is perhaps the most divergent this year; though its roots are in the books, the characters featured are almost completely different. The core similarities are that certain characters want to take Cersei's daughter Myrcella away from Prince Doran, but their plot is foiled by Doran's captain of guards, Areo Hotah, and the plotters are imprisoned by the prince.
On the show, there are two dueling factions who just so happen to make their play for Myrcella at the exact same time. Jaime Lannister and Bronn come to try to take her back to King's Landing at Cersei's request, while the Sand Snakes and the late Oberyn Martell's paramour Ellaria plot to harm her.
But in the books, the set-piece plan involving Myrcella is hatched by the prince's daughter, Arianne Martell — a character seemingly cut from the show. Arianne wants to crown Myrcella queen of Westeros, not kill her, to trigger a war with the Lannisters and shore up her own claim to be Doran's heir. As on the show, the plan is thwarted by Areo Hotah — though the consequences in the books are much more violent (Myrcella's ear is chopped off!).
Semi-relatedly, in the books, Trystane Martell and Myrcella Baratheon are both much younger, and they don't make out.
HBO
Jorah and Tyrion definitely do not become besties so quickly in the books. (HBO)
In A Dance With Dragons, Tyrion Lannister and Jorah Mormont are captured by slavers during their journey to Meereen, just as they were in this episode. Some of the details and the context are different, though. Jorah and Tyrion still loathe each other at this point, so they're not having heart-to-hearts about their respective dead fathers. Additionally, Tyrion doesn't have to convince the slavers to go to Meereen.
But probably the biggest change is the show's omission of a character named Penny, a female dwarf Tyrion encounters during his visit to Volantis midway through the book. Penny's brother, it turns out, was one of the dwarves mistakenly executed by hunters that Cersei sent out to search for Tyrion. After initially being furious at Tyrion, she joins up with him and Jorah because she has nowhere else to go, and the two dwarves start to become close.
Though Penny provided a new perspective on being a dwarf, she was a controversial addition to the books, since many readers who felt that Tyrion's plot line in A Dance With Dragons meandered viewed the Penny material as a pointless digression.
Previous entry
To discuss the series finale of Mad Men , culture editor Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by several of Vox's other writers. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here.
Todd VanDerWerff: I had two thoughts upon immediately concluding "Person to Person," the series finale of Mad Men. The first was, Whoa, Eileen really nailed that prediction. The second was, That was hugely satisfying, but never in a way that pushed for too much closure.
How much closure to provide is the big question all finales (especially drama finales) must wrestle with. Provide too little, and you risk angering the audience, which wants some sense of what happens to everybody. But provide too much, and you close off viewers' ability to imagine other possibilities for what comes next.
There's no right answer to this question, either. Providing almost no closure whatsoever was the right call for The Sopranos, while providing almost total closure was the right call for Breaking Bad. In general, however, I like when my TV shows feel like living documents, never set in stone the way a film or novel might be. It's part of what makes the medium so fascinating to me — the idea that these stories continue, even though we're not privy to them. I want, in short, an ending, but not the ending.
And on that score, "Person to Person" was an absolute marvel. I wrote at length in my recap about the way the episode's structure gave all of the characters brief curtain calls, but I also appreciated how it served as an effective encapsulation of so many of the series' most potent themes and motifs. There was California as a place for renewal and rebirth. There was the slow, triumphant rise of feminism. And there was Don Draper's aching, horrible need for connection, above all else.
In particular, "Person to Person" works beautifully as a Rorschach test as to how you feel about the show and maybe even life in general. Its ending can be read sincerely or cynically, and essentially every character comes to a place that can be seen as a happy ending or an unhappy one.
Is Pete really going to be all that thrilled to be living in Wichita, when push comes to shove? Probably not, but for now it feels like a thrilling start of something new. Betty is literally dying of a horrible disease, but she's finally taken control of her own life and seized hold of her agency. Is that a happy ending or an unhappy one? It really depends on who you are.
If you asked me to describe Mad Men's overall tone, I might call it "deeply cynical but essentially hopeful." And to that degree, "Person to Person" delivered. Everything that happens in it is tinged with the sense that these characters have had a breakthrough, have gotten closer to finding their essential selves and finding contentment. But there's also ample opportunity to believe that they've learned basically nothing and will always be trapped by the same weaknesses they've had from the very beginning.
It's not quite "choose your own adventure," but it's close. And Matthew Weiner underlines, at all turns, just how open-ended this ending is. What's that document Peggy writes? Did Don really return to McCann and pitch "I'd Like to Buy the World a Coke"? How will Joan's company do?
The answer to all of those questions is, "We won't ever quite know." I'm more than fine with that. Mad Men has always been a show that's as much about what the audience thinks of it as about what's on screen. It's why, I think, so many viewers got sucked into sharing so many crazy theories about the show and the characters. All that ambiguity essentially invited speculation.
But the show has always been about the way life doesn't like being pinned down. Another way you might describe the show's tone is the old John Lennon quote: "Life is what happens to you while you're busy making other plans." As Libby Nelson pointed out so beautifully, the biggest effect of watching Mad Men was to become aware of the passage of time yourself. And, of course, our lives don't come with handy, compact endings. They come with lots of half-starts and brief pauses, until the ultimate, final ending that comes for us all.
"Person to Person" doesn't end with every question answered, but if it had, that would have been artificial. It wouldn't have felt real. No, it needed to end like so many of our own stories do — with a gradual stop and then the first hints of a new day on the horizon.
What did you guys think? And as the week wears on, please feel free to share your favorite moments, quotes, episodes, and characters from throughout the series' run.
Read the recap, and come back later today for thoughts from other writers.
Previous episode's discussion
Next: Libby on Peggy's big moment
This is what advertising does.
It takes authentic human experience, moments of genuine emotion or even art, and it turns them into pap. It wrings what is real from them and what is true about them, and it makes them suitable to sell products.
But it can also be beautiful.
Most of us get our advertising via television, and the best TV ads can have, buried deep within them, echoes of that initial emotion, a low-level hum that you don't really understand but respond to nonetheless. Ads keep pushing us back to our basest-level selves — people who long for love or family or connection and don't always find it.
The slickest poison any ad can sell is the idea that by consuming this product, you will become part of a community that wants you, instead of someone sitting, watching TV, all alone.
This is what happens to Don Draper. He's spent this whole half-season — this whole season, really — longing for a connection, and then he finally finds it in the middle of a self-help retreat that uses principles of transcendental meditation to attempt to attain inner peace. And then he finds it, with some dude in one of his groups, and in the weird miasma of things swirling around this retreat, he finds not just peace but piece — as in the ad that will presumably make his name all over again.
To Matthew Weiner's credit, "Person to Person" leaves ambiguous whether or not Don came up with the "I'd like to buy the world a Coke" ad that ends the episode (as Eileen Sutton and I predicted last week). Yet the costumes in that ad are present at the retreat, and the man's monologue about feeling like he's stranded on a shelf in a refrigerator directly calls to mind a certain soft drink.

Did anyone else notice this? #MadMenFinale pic.twitter.com/9MthK2rQmD


Maybe Don didn't come up with that ad — in our reality, a McCann creative director named Bill Backer did, and Mad Men rarely allows its character to take credit for real advertising ideas — but it's almost as if the atmosphere of the early '70s would have brought it to life sooner or later.
It's a happy ending. But it's also a cynical, despairing ending.
But I think the real ambiguity here is the tenor of that scene. It's a happy ending. Don finds a measure of connection, calm, and peace. "Buy the world" is one of those beautiful ads people remember. And the characters all find ways to move forward with grace and maybe even hope.
But it's also a cynical, despairing ending, another moment of genuine emotion commodified and made into something that can be put on a shelf and sold. Life stumbles on. The moments of truth and beauty you are privy to are quickly made shallow by the imperfections of memory. Comforting a man in his hour of need becomes buying the world a Coke. It's all mixed up together.
"Person to Person" is a beautiful, confounding episode of television. It's my favorite series finale since The Sopranos wrapped with even less closure, but I fully accept that "These characters will probably be okay, but who knows?" is not an answer every TV viewer wants to hear.
What "Person to Person" is really up to is right there in the title. The dissolution that dominated the first part of this set of episodes has given way to the tentative reconstruction of bridges between the characters. Not everyone on this show has experienced dramatic levels of growth, but everybody has experienced some, and this episode wants to underline and highlight that.
It's even present in how the episode is structured.
What's more, when there's a third character present, he or she is almost always dismissed.
Take Caroline, who exits so Roger can send Meredith packing. (Nobody actually thinks he needs two secretaries.)
After Roger dismisses Caroline, he has to inform Meredith it's time to move on.
AMC
Or consider young Gene, who leaves so his older siblings can talk about what's really happening with their mother.
With Gene gone, Sally and Bobby can speak frankly.
AMC
Or think, even, of how all the scenes at the retreat ultimately boil down to two people having a conversation — with some reaction shots from other participants thrown in.
Stephanie and a new friend get to know each other nonverbally.
AMC
"Person to Person" puts in some of the scenes and moments we've been waiting for all half-season, like the conversation where Peggy and Don finally connect at the level they have before (in which she realizes how scared she is for him), or the part where Don doesn't have to tell Betty that he loves her — even after all that's happened — because she just knows. The episode is set around Halloween, and in the background of several scenes are cartoon ghosts, remnants of things past. It's fitting for an episode about finally casting aside what drags you down.
Other human beings can't be placed in boxes and marketed. We can hurt them, or we can build them up.
The second half of season seven, then, has been one long denouement, one long process of dissolution that could have given way to entropy but, instead, gave way to those tiny moments when somebody — to quote yet another ad campaign — reaches out and touches someone.
It's in these moments that Matthew Weiner reminds us what matters in life. Other human beings can't be easily placed in boxes and marketed. We can hurt them, or we can build them up.
In short, we can shove ...
The older woman Don is paired with shoves him.
AMC
Or we can pull closer.
Don hugs Leonard, finally connecting with somebody else.
AMC
In "Person to Person," when the characters leap out into the unknown, hoping someone is there to catch them, somebody is always there. That hasn't always been true on this show, but the finale wants to let us know that everybody has their own support net.
Peggy, so far as we can tell, didn't quit McCann to go work with Joan, but she knows all of these people who unquestioningly have her back. Betty might be dying, but she has the support of her daughter and both men she has married. She worries her boys will struggle without a woman in their lives, but she shouldn't, because Sally's right there to make sure Bobby knows how to use a frying pan. Roger creates a financial net for the son he can never legally acknowledge as his own. Pete has his family back, and he's headed for Wichita. And on and on.
The truth of the matter is that "Person to Person" is one long curtain call.
Much of its emotional resolution centers on Stephanie, a character we haven't seen in a while (and whose connection to the show's core is extremely tentative), and the decision to send Don to the retreat, far away from the heart of things in New York, occasionally seems like one literary gambit too far. (It feels like something that would have happened in one of John Updike's more meandering novels.)
Weiner is giving every single one of the show's seven major characters a moment to shine
But throughout, Weiner is giving every single one of the show's seven major characters a moment to shine, a moment when you know that if they're not living their best life, they might at least have a chance at doing so. He even does so for some of the minor characters.
To wit:
Harry and Ken: Okay, yeah, Harry and Ken both end up swallowed up by larger corporate monoliths, but we know enough about the former to know he's probably happiest that way, and the one time we see Ken in this episode, he seems really happy to be building something new at Dow.
Harry will be just fine at McCann. Of course he will be.
AMC
Ken is building something of his own at Dow.
AMC
Stan: Stan isn't quite at the level of the main seven. He's more on the Megan Draper, "Thank you for dropping by the final few seasons" level. But he still gets one of the biggest, most romantic moments of the series, when he confesses to Peggy that, yeah, he loves her. It was so incredibly cheesy, but Jay R. Ferguson's impassioned performance sold it. I bought it. I bought the hell out of it.
Stan confesses to Peggy that he loves her.
AMC
And then you have the big seven, the characters the vast majority of the show's storylines have revolved around, and the characters who have been there from day one.
Roger: The series occasionally struggled to know what to do with Roger, who lacked an organic connection with Peggy to incorporate him into stories with the younger characters in the office. But his final season arc was almost entirely about gaining peace with his mortality, and here, as he committed fully to an age-appropriate woman and began making plans for who would inherit his considerable fortune, he finally seemed to understand that even if the family name dies out with him, his memory can still persist.
Roger somehow found love and happiness with Marie Calvet.
AMC
Sally: Sally's journey has always been marked by how she has to grow up in a hurry. It's been true since she was driving around her grandfather in season three (the first season where it felt like the show realized what it had in young actress Kiernan Shipka). Here, though, she finally gets both of her parents to acknowledge just how capable — and awesome — she is, and her simple act of kindness in helping Bobby learn how to cook indicates that her brothers will be just fine, too. I like to think Don will be a part of his kids' lives again once he's back from California, but if not, the boys will be just fine with their older sister around.
Sally lets slip to her father that her mother is very ill.
AMC
Betty: Betty's big curtain call was last week, when she decided she would die on her own terms. But in this episode, she has an early scene where she forces Don (on one of the person-to-person calls that names the episode) to not sully her last handful of months with fighting over the future of their children. She shames him, yes, but she also shares that lovely moment where so much that could have been, if only they were different people, passes between them.
Even with terminal lung cancer, Betty's going to keep smoking.
AMC
Joan: You knew Joan couldn't stay away from the working world forever. After an extended vacation to Florida with Richard (during which she takes cocaine — a fun little foreshadowing of "coke," as well as a subtle nod to where American culture was heading), she learns from Ken that Dow needs someone to produce its industrial films. It's not much, but she leaps at the opportunity to start her own production company, and even if Peggy doesn't jump at the chance, she's finally out on her own and moving forward into the future.
It's November 1970, and Joan has started her own company.
AMC
Pete: So much of Pete's ending was also written last week (when he reconciled with Trudy and took the job in Wichita), but it's worth pointing out that he gets two small moments that show how much he's changed in this episode. First, he is gracious and kind with Peggy, someone with whom his relationship curdled long ago, finally admitting just how jealous he is of how effortlessly people seem to like her.
And then, he leaves New York. He actually gets on the jet and leaves. So much of his life has been about trying to find meaning in being part of the city's circulatory system, but now he will be able to define his own meaning somewhere else, somewhere out West. Sometimes on this show, the only way to find yourself is to escape where you are. Pete finally figured that out.
Pete finally leaves behind the city ... for Wichita.
AMC
Peggy: Peggy's hardest to get a bead on, because it's easy enough to assume that no matter what she chooses to do, she's going to be just fine. She's Peggy Olson! It's tempting to read this season, with its frequent "almost" love connections between her and various suitors, as a strained attempt to force the character into couplehood. When it finally happens with Stan, it could feel a little sour.
But Peggy's the one who ties this episode together — literally, when the sound of her tapping keyboard underscores the final montage. She's the one who finally gets Don to realize how far he's gone and maybe even pull him back from the brink, at least a little. She realizes, finally, how similar she and Joan are. And she overcomes her own reticence to admit to Stan what he means to her. Of all the characters on the show, I'm least worried about Peggy. "Person to Person" suggests I'm right to not be afraid.
Peggy types a mystery document. She'll be just fine.
AMC
Don: Don spends most of the episode being called Dick. Don spends most of the episode seemingly on the edge of suicide. And then Don hears something in another man's words, something that finally pulls him out of his shell and makes him realize he can help others simply by caring about them, by being there. This is the second episode in a row to end with Don smiling, but as Weiner zooms in on his face, we get a sense of what might be behind that smile, the idea that comes to life in that moment.
Don smiles, maybe because he has an idea.
AMC
Imagine, for a moment, a whole show about Leonard, the man whom Don comforts, a show where Leonard drifts through a whole decade feeling like he is ignored, unnoticed, slowly coming apart. That is, in some ways, the story of Don, but this is not a man who possesses Don's glamour and suave handsomeness. He is, instead, just some guy, out on the edges of life, waiting for things to make sense.
The genius of Mad Men is in how it suggests that everybody is that way, no matter how much they seem like they have it together. Don Draper's central flaw — that he constructs a Don Draper suit that he thinks covers up his bruised, aching Dick Whitman self — is the flaw all of us share. We all suspect people can see our worst selves, that they might push us away if they found out who we really are.
There are millions of stories just like this, behind the locked doors of houses we pass on late-night walks, sitting in the cars we find ourselves idling beside on the freeway. This is a big planet and a big country, filled with so many people and so many stories, but, really, one story — that of searching, endlessly, for someone who will see us and understand us and know us and not look away.
Ohmmmmmmmmmm.
AMC
Apple trees and honeybees and snow white turtledoves.
AMC
It's a special occasion, so instead of the usual 90-minute chat, I'll be dropping in throughout the day when I'm not doing other things. Please, please, please send me your thoughts.
Whether you first read me here, or at The A.V. Club, or at The House Next Door, or at (God forbid) my old personal blog, talking about this show with all of you has been a genuine pleasure. I look forward to one last week.
Previous episode
Moral ambiguity continues to fall by the wayside in David Benioff and D. B. Weiss's adaptation of George R. R. Martin's Song of Ice and Fire novels. The sixth episode of season five featured some decisive setbacks, but it's becoming clearer whom Benioff and Weiss want us to root for as the season ramps up to its climax.
"Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken" was a shocking episode. Our lead characters were beaten, imprisoned, and taken captive — but their resilience persists. These are the moments everyone will be talking about (spoilers ahead).
HBO
After spending weeks washing corpses at the House of Black and White, Arya still doesn't know what it'll take for Jaqen H’ghar to approve of her initiation. She's repeatedly tested on how well she can tell a lie and how well she can recognize one — but she fails, and no one will give her any answers.
Later, as she scrubbing the floor, Arya is approached by a father with a sick daughter; the man is hoping to help end his child's suffering. Arya facilitates the girl's death, spinning a tale about having been sick herself, only to be healed by the waters of the House of Black and White's fountain. Jaqen watches from the shadows.
Jaqen interrupts Arya as she's cleaning the girl's corpse, and leads her through a previously forbidden passageway into a room stocked to the ceiling with disembodied faces. It's our first glimpse at Jaqen's shape-shifting mechanisms, though how it all works (and how Arya plans to use it) is yet to be seen.
HBO
Jorah and his captive, Tyrion, having passed through the ruins of Valyria, share a few moments discussing Daenerys's right to the throne before they're caught by slave merchants.
The slavers quip about killing Tyrion to sell his enchanted dwarf genitals, but the youngest Lannister is quick to talk himself out of danger, reasoning that any worthwhile cock merchant would want to see Tyrion alive to know that the genitals were in fact those of a dwarf.
Jorah, meanwhile, earns his keep when Tyrion talks up his skills as a fighter. Now that Daenerys has reopened fighting pits in Meereen, Jorah could bring in some decent cash for the slavers. "Take me to Slaver’s Bay, put a sword in my hand, I’ll prove my worth," Jorah promises. If nothing else, they're headed back in Dany's direction.
HBO
Jaime and Bronn, disguised in Dornish garb, make it into the Martell compound. They're there to rescue Myrcella Baratheon, Jaime's niece (and secret daughter).
Problem is, they're not the only people after Myrcella. She's also being hunted by the Sand Snakes, the bastard daughters of the late Oberyn Martell. They're out to avenge their father's death — but a fight breaks out as soon as the Snakes cross paths with Bronn and Jaime. The guards of the Martell estate are swift to stop the fight, forcing both parties to surrender. Ellaria Sand, who was behind the plot, is apprehended as well.
HBO
Olenna Tyrell, informed of Loras's imprisonment, has made her way to King's Landing to confront Cersei about her treachery. She succeeds at first — there's an impromptu interrogation by the High Sparrow, and both Margaery and Loras swear against the allegations of the knight's homosexuality.
Then the High Sparrow brings in Ollie, the young blond in bed with Loras when Margaery intruded a few episodes ago. Ollie's word goes against the Tyrell siblings' — and the High Sparrow calls for a full trial against both of them.
HBO
Sansa Stark is no stranger to forced marriages at this point, but her union with Ramsay is particularly horrifying. Miranda, Ramsay's lover, offers a few words of intimidation in a last-ditch effort to scare Sansa out of the wedding, but Sansa stands firm: Winterfell is her home, she tells Miranda, and she isn't scared.
Whether or not she's bluffing — and whether she has a legitimate reason to be scared — is another story. The tortured Theon Greyjoy walks her down the aisle, where he surprisingly identifies himself by his real name for the first time in ages.
When the ceremonies wrap up, Ramsay takes his bride back to a bedroom, with Theon in tow. Bizarrely enough, it appears to be Brann Stark's bedroom from season one, where he lay paralyzed in his pre-Hodor days.
Ramsay probes the validity of Sansa's claims of virginity, given her previous marriage to Tyrion, before violently consummating the marriage and forcing Theon to watch. It's a brutal scene, even by Game of Thrones standards: Sansa is raped, Theon watches through a face full of tears, and Ramsay continues to prove just how twisted he really is. It's a traumatizing moment, setting the stage for the upcoming clash between the Bolton and Baratheon forces — and as of right now, it's not difficult to choose sides.
Previous episode
Taylor Swift has been teasing her music video for "Bad Blood" — the latest single off last year's 1989 — for weeks, announcing roles in it for more than a dozen singers (Selena Gomez, Ellie Goulding), supermodels (Cara Delevingne, Karlie Kloss), actresses (Jessica Alba, Lena Dunham), and people-after-whom-Taylor-Swift's-cats-are-named (Mariska Hargitay, Ellen Pompeo).
It's finally here, and it features a brand new remix of the song with verses by Kendrick Lamar (who has covered Swift's "Shake It Off" and whom Swift previously paid tribute to by posting a video of herself dancing to "Backseat Freestyle").
Watch above. Hat tip to Daniel D'Addario at Time.
As Mad Men draws to a close, one thing has stayed constant: for viewers, Don Draper's been a persistent symbol of cool. He's so cool, in fact, that he inspired hairstyle trends in our own world. Don's handsomeness seems timeless.
However, by 1970, when Mad Men is expected to end, advertising campaigns were saying his hairstyle was lame:
Gillette "Dry Look" ad from 1970.
Creative Commons via Sensei Alan
Yes, Madison Avenue called out people like Don Draper for "head-wetting." Launched in the 1970s, Gillette's Dry Look hair product addressed the fact that longer hair looked greasy when styled with Vitalis or Brylcreem. By that time, creams and tonics were reserved for old men who weren't in sync with the zeitgeist — like our own modern fashion icon, Don Draper.
Back then, some people might have considered Don's style classic. But there's a good chance he would have just looked out of touch.
Every week, three of Vox's writers will discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, deputy culture editor Jen Trolio is joined by executive editor Matthew Yglesias and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Andrew Prokop: Jen, what I find most interesting about the setup for the Battle of Winterfell is that our sympathies are clearly meant to lie with one side, and one side only.
First we have the Boltons, who are stunningly wicked and cruel. Obviously there's Ramsay, who spent all of season three torturing Theon and hunted his own former mistress for sport the following year. But if you thought Papa Bolton's cruelty might have been limited to his betrayal of Robb Stark, you were disabused of that in "Kill the Boy," when Roose casually explained to Ramsay how he used rape to enforce his rule. The Boltons are compelling to watch, but there are absolutely no shades of gray to them — they are bad guys who need to be defeated.
Then we have Stannis Baratheon riding south to attack them. Now, Stannis did have his brother murdered by a magical shadow assassin a few years back, and he's spent a lot of time being boring since. But starting at the end of season four, and continuing this year in season five, Game of Thrones' showrunners have worked overtime to make us like him. He saved the Night's Watch! He loves his daughter! He even bravely stands up to crimes against grammar! (Well, that was always true, but we were reminded of it again this week.)
Stannis's victory would mean the liberation of the North, the freedom of Sansa Stark and Theon Greyjoy, and a responsible and savvy ruler in charge of helping the Wall resist the White Walkers. A Bolton victory would mean some very bad things for many people, from little Shireen Baratheon to Sansa to perhaps even Jon Snow.
So this is a change from the battles of Game of Thrones' early seasons. When the Starks and Lannisters raised armies and stepped onto the field in season one, we liked the Starks more but cared about Tyrion on the Lannister side. In season two, when Stannis attacked King's Landing, our sympathies were quite complicated. Stannis had just killed his own brother, but the regime was led by the awful King Joffrey. It was hard, though, not to root for Tyrion, who was heroically leading the city's defense.
The Winterfell situation does, however, resemble the big battle at the end of season four, when we were obviously supposed to side with the Night's Watch to defeat the attacking wildlings. Even there, we had Ygritte to sympathize with among the attackers, and Tormund Giantsbane is pretty cool, too. With the Boltons, there's really no one. The only sympathetic characters in their vicinity also want them to lose — with Sansa hoping Stannis will beat the Boltons and name her "Wardeness of the North."
This trend toward clearer "good guys against bad guys" conflicts is something I worry about a bit as far as the future of the series is concerned. With the White Walkers looming, it does seem possible that the interesting and morally complex conflicts we've seen so far will eventually boil down to an all-out struggle for the survival of humanity. That can certainly be done well, but it's a much more conventional story.
I won't prejudge, though. Last week, I suggested that Dany could become a villain, and I think that's even more likely after "Kill the Boy," when she had her dragons burn a captured Meereenese ex-slaver to death in retaliation for Barristan Selmy's murder. So that could certainly complicate viewers' feelings. And Stannis could, of course, lose his noble quest to depose the Boltons, which would present some interesting questions about what the other characters in the North and at the Wall do next.
The other big news of the week is that Jorah Mormont has contracted greyscale. Now, I’ve never found Jorah particularly interesting, either on the show or in the books. Iain Glen does his best with the material, but the character simply isn't very complicated or compelling. As far as "devoted muscle for a major character" goes, I'd take Brienne of Tarth, her tragic history, and her complex grappling with the gender politics of Westeros over Jorah's "I love her but she doesn't love me back" any day. (Showrunners David Benioff and D. B. Weiss nicknamed him "Jorah the Explorer" because they relied on him so much for exposition.)
So the revelation that he now has greyscale in a show-only twist didn't make too much of an impact on me. Indeed, it seems to go overboard in making an already rather pathetic character even more depressing and doomed. At least before, Jorah was able to hope that he might rule by Dany's side in Westeros. Now he knows for certain that unless he has stubborn Stannis overseeing his treatment regimen, he'll eventually become an insane rock zombie, while also contaminating anyone he touches.
Is the conflict between Stannis and the Boltons too one-sided? And do you feel for poor Jorah?
Read the recap. Come back soon for more discussion.
Previous entry

Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and foreign policy writer Amanda Taub. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Amanda Taub: Todd, I think you're on to something in your discussion of class, because there is another parallel between Don and Pete that I think is worth drawing out. Both men betrayed the social class that they were born into. It's just that Pete betrayed it down, instead of climbing upward like Don did.
Pete's class betrayal can be hard to see, because let's face it: dude started his life rich and privileged, and there's every sign that he will end it the same way. But over the course of the series, we've seen him basically turn himself from old money into new money, and that has let the show tell a story about the decline of old privilege in a time of social upheaval.
Remember the scene in season one's "New Amsterdam," when Pete meets his father for a drink? The old man's disapproval of Pete's life path could not have been stated more clearly. Pete's career disgusts him. It is, he says, "no job for a white man." And who is a Dyckman Campbell supposed to be, if not a paragon of whiteness? "We gave you your name!" his father scolds. "We gave you everything!"
The whole point of being old money, after all, is that you aren't supposed to have to hustle to earn more — you're just supposed to spend what you have, in a manner that befits your station in life. Of course, when Pete's father dies in season two, we find out what that really means: he had squandered the family fortune on "oysters, travel, and club memberships," leaving his widow and sons with practically nothing. (Speaking of which, can it possibly be a coincidence that both of Pete's Mayflower-blue-blood parents were lost at sea when they died?)
That puts a new spin on Pete's reluctance to trade on his name, such as his obvious discomfort with using it to get past the condo board for the apartment he and Trudy are buying. I don't think it's just that Pete craves validation of himself as a person rather than just a pedigree — though of course he does, walking black hole of insecurity that he is — it's that he knows he's slumming it.
Pete using the Dyckman name to get ad agency accounts men into fancy country clubs or to get past the condo board that's so impressed to have a Dyckman in the building is like Rihanna playing an oligarch's birthday party. Worth it, maybe — but nothing to feel proud of.
That obviously made Pete unhappy, especially early in the series. But as the show went on, it also became an asset for him. Perhaps because he had already made a big break with what he was "supposed" to be and do, Pete was more open to the social upheaval of the '60s, and more able to take advantage of it. He wasn't insecure about proving his white privilege, and so could (rightly) point out to clients that they ought to be advertising in magazines focused on the growing African-American market.
Trudy's background was different, so she took a little longer to grasp that privilege was no longer all it was cracked up to be. But we saw the exact moment when she gave up on it: in the scene in season three's "The Grown-Ups," when she and Pete decide not to attend Roger's daughter's wedding. When Pete refuses to go, Trudy says they "have to," because it's his boss's daughter's wedding. It's what people do!
But she drops that objection immediately when Pete explains that he can't bring himself to go to the wedding because of how his colleagues reacted to the JFK assassination the day before. They almost seemed happy, he said. They made comments like "the man made a lot of enemies" — as if JFK's politics meant that he was to blame for his own murder. Trudy is horrified, and suddenly "what people do" is no longer as important to her: she slips off her dyed-to-match pumps and sits down on the couch, and that is just that.
The couple's willingness to disregard "what people do" pays off in the next episode. When Don and Roger invite Pete to join their new agency, neither Pete nor Trudy hesitates for a moment about whether to go with them. And that decision set up Pete for the success he enjoyed later, first as a partner at Sterling Cooper, then as the favorite son at McCann, and soon, presumably, as the Learjet king of Wichita.
He's still a jerk, of course. He still cheated on his wife, raped his neighbor's nanny, treated Peggy coldly when she showed self-confidence after sleeping with him, pimped Joan out — the list goes on and on. But it seems like he's being set up for a happier ending than anyone on this show could expect.
So Todd, I will end with a prediction of my own about how the show will end. It's not as specific as yours (although I agree that "I'd like to buy the world a Coke" could be the Don-Draperest pitch of all time, and I wouldn't mind seeing it). Rather, I think that the characters' final positions at the end of the series are going to be about whether they are still clinging to the old order, or whether they've benefited from changing times.
I think we've already seen that rule in action. Joan was never looking forward to the new order, even though she benefited from it, and the show punished her for it. McCann's lizards couldn't see beyond her sexy facade, and she was so used to relying on her looks that when it really mattered, she didn't know how to force them to see that she was much more than a pretty face and a Marilyn-esque body.  Betty also clung to the past, and now she won't even have a chance to adjust to the future.
Contrast that with the characters who saw the world changing and took advantage of it. Harry, slimeball that he is, correctly identified the growing importance of television, and now he's thrilled with his life at McCann. And Pete has embraced the new order, too, in his own way. He may have gotten the Learjet job because he's an "old knickerbocker" who went to the right schools, but he's heading West to literally help new money take flight.
Peggy, of course, has benefited most of all: the world of the show has gone from one that overlooks Peggy Olsons to one that prizes them, and she has reaped the benefits of that. I hope we're going to see her character again. But if we don't, she definitely got to go out on a high note, swaggering into her own office at McCann, pornographic painting under her arm and "don't fuck with me" look on her face.
But all of that makes it hard for me to believe that things will end well for our main character. Don constructed his entire life around passing as a member of the old-school upper crust, but the persona he created doesn't fit in the modern 1970s world. Now he's on a road trip, letting "Don Draper" go, but he seems to be moving backward, not forward: he looks more like the 1950s Don who worked in a California car dealership than a man poised to take advantage of a changing America. He's refusing to change with the times, which is the ultimate Mad Men sin. Will the show forgive him for it?
Read the recap, and come back tomorrow for thoughts on the finale.
Previous entry
Next episode's discussion
I've spent the past week in New York, attending the broadcast networks' unveiling of their fall schedules to advertisers. This process is decidedly antiquated — a leftover remnant of a time when broadcast TV was the only TV game in town — but it's also a great opportunity to get a sense of what the television industry thinks about the culture at large, which trends it's tapping into, and what it thinks will be important in the year to come.
To that end, it's worthwhile to check out some of the trailers for the 2015-'16 season's new shows. Judging a TV series based on its pilot is bad (and difficult) enough; judging one based on its trailer is just ridiculous. So don't consider these final verdicts in the slightest. But based on what I saw this week, here are seven shows I'm looking forward to this fall — and three I'm dreading.

What can I say? I'm a sucker for an elaborate musical sequence.

DC is leaning heavily into glorious goofiness with its burgeoning superhero slate, and this newest entry — featuring a time-traveling man named Rip Hunter who works to preserve the space-time continuum — looks like just my kind of ridiculousness.

How will this show continue past one season? It probably won't, but the assembled cast is crackerjack, and the final image of this trailer is nicely creepy.

It takes a lot to get me to laugh. It takes even more to get me to laugh at a trailer. I laughed at this one — where Rob Lowe plays a TV lawyer who decides his small-screen courtroom experience is enough qualification to be a real one — a bunch. Well played, Fox.

I'm taking this one on faith. It has a great cast, and I like the idea of every episode consisting of a bunch of smaller stories that connect into one larger one. Unfortunately, the trailer makes it look more like a Modern Family clone than anything else.

I don't know that I need another sci-fi cop show, but at least this one is based on a sci-fi cop movie. Plus it sure looks like the Washington Monument has been transformed into a glittering space laser, which is a great idea that Congress should absolutely prioritize.

This one just looks like so much fun. Tell me I'm wrong.

A lot of people whose opinions I trust thought this was a great trailer, but I found it horribly soporific and boring. That might be because the original pilot starred Maggie Grace — and this version is cut to make Marcia Gay Harden the lead, as she will be when the show hits the air.

Does everything need to be a cop show?

There are plenty of terrible trailers out there — particularly for ABC's Dr. Ken and NBC's People Are Talking — but in surveying this year's lot, none were as bad as this one. Heartbreaker feels like NBC attempted to Frankenstein its own version of Grey's Anatomy from a stitched-together version of the long-running drama's abandoned plot lines.
We'll see if any of these shows live up to their potential — for good or ill — next TV season.
David Lynch is returning to Twin Peaks — again.
The revival of the hugely influential, spooky soap on Showtime has spent much of its brief life in pre-production swathed in uncertainty. Though the program was first teased by the legendary director (and Peaks co-creator) on Twitter, Lynch later withdrew from the project, saying talks with Showtime had broken down over money. The show's triumphant return would be absent its chief creative architect.
Lynch and his fellow co-creator, Mark Frost, had written the miniseries' nine episodes, but Lynch had also been planning to direct all of them. His signature eye for the uncanny among the mundane would be richly missed.
Now, however, he's announced his return to the project on Twitter.

Dear Twitter Friends, the rumors are not what they seem ..... It is !!! Happening again. #TwinPeaks returns on @SHO_Network


Showtime released a statement saying that not only will Lynch continue to direct the whole of this new Peaks, but it will be longer than the originally ordered nine hours, though the statement did not indicate how much longer.
Lynch's departure and return from the project increasingly seems like a sort of social media negotiation — using the forces of an internet that keenly anticipates his upcoming project to badger an opponent that's not backing down.
Of course, this is Lynch we're talking about, so it's just as likely that if you take the exact amount of time he was gone from the project, you'll discover a secret message pointing to the secrets of the cosmos. Why else have a Twitter account?
Every week, three of Vox's writers will discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, deputy culture editor Jen Trolio is joined by executive editor Matthew Yglesias and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Jen Trolio: I see what you're saying about Melisandre, Matthew, but while I agree that her assassination of Renly via shadow baby isn't necessarily any worse than some of the acts we've seen carried out by other Game of Thrones characters, I'm still skeptical of the Lord of Light and his followers. I think it's all the eerie, knowing glances.
In "Kill the Boy," we saw Melisandre throw one hell of a look in Jon's direction as the Stannis contingent set out for Winterfell, and I'm also still struck by the glare of that priestess from a couple episodes back, the one who declared Daenarys the savior as Varys and Tyrion listened in on her courtyard sermon. Everyone's entitled to their own religious beliefs, but the Lord of Light's followers give me the heebie-jeebies.
Given Melisandre's discussion with Jon — during which she hinted that she has plenty of intel on his parents, his bloodlines, and his future before taking off with Stannis — she's got to be up to something. Sure, she could surprise us with something heroic, as you've suggested she might, but as long as she keeps casting such sneaky looks, I don't trust her. I'm thinking that Jon and Melisandre will definitely cross paths once again; I'm just not sure why.
But assuming no one's dispatched a shadow baby to shut me up for throwing shade at their religion, I want to switch gears and discuss what else transpired at the Wall before Melisandre, Stannis, and the rest of their camp set out — as well as what might be in the cards for Winterfell once they arrive.
Since it debuted, Game of Thrones has used the penultimate episode of each season to deliver a gigantic plot development, oftentimes a battle of some sort. In season one, Ned lost his head. In season two, wildfire lit up the sky as King's Landing came under siege from Stannis in the Battle of the Blackwater. Season three brought the Red Wedding. And season four saw the Night's Watch defend its turf against Mance Rayder in the Battle of Castle Black. Every one of these scenarios has served to push various story and character arcs in new directions — by throwing King's Landing and the Stark family into disarray, by forging new alliances between houses, by paving the way for Jon to become Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, etc. — and to set up the following season.
I think the events that took place at the Wall in "Kill the Boy" began to lay the foundation for what may be season five's big knock-down drag-out, whether it happens in episode nine or not. Most importantly, Jon made a deal with Tormund Giantsbane that essentially gave the episode its title as he sought advice from Maester Aemon. Meanwhile, Samwell kept up his dragonglass studies and had a brief chat with Stannis, planting a new seed for whatever White Walker madness lies ahead — and possibly a detour to Dragonstone at some point. I get the feeling that Game of Thrones has something bigger in store for Sam. Forget Melisandre; I'd love to see Sam emerge as a hero in this story. At the very least, he's an underdog I think most fans are rooting for to step up and save a(nother?) day or two, should he get the chance.
How will these little snippets come back into play once clashes begin in Winterfell — something that's surely on the docket for the second half of the season? Sansa's already there, with mysterious allies ready to stand behind her the moment she lights a candle in the Broken Tower, Brienne and Pod are in the vicinity, and Stannis is on his way there now. Plus, Drogon the dragon seems to be traveling farther and farther from Meereen; how long can it possibly be before Dany takes a hint from her fire-breathing children and finally hits the road? Could she possibly end up in Winterfell, too?
No matter how many different factions descend on the city, not everyone will happy to see one another. Throw in the unpredictability of the wildlings — we don't know how they'll react to Jon and Tormund's partnership pitch, and if things go awry, it seems within the realm of possibility that they could do some damage in Winterfell once they're south of the Wall — and the stage may be set for Game of Thrones' next big battle, this time in a location we've become all too familiar with over the years.
What do you think, Andrew?
Read the recap. Come back soon for more discussion.
Previous entry

Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and foreign policy writer Amanda Taub. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Libby Nelson: Now that Mad Men is drawing to a close, I assume Matthew Weiner is going to answer the true question at the heart of the series. Not "Who is Don Draper?" or "Did the falling man in the credits really fall, or was he pushed?" but "Can people change?"
Really, Mad Men has been answering that question for eight years. And so have we, as we've watched it.
I've been describing the experience of eight years of Mad Men as "a sort of reverse Boyhood." The magic of Boyhood, tragically robbed of 2014's Best Picture Oscar, was that by filming for a decade with the same actors, and then stitching the footage together into a continuous story, it sped up the process of growing up into something you could experience all over again in just under three hours. It was surprisingly moving and revelatory.


Mad Men has done the opposite: because its characters have aged and their lives have shifted more or less in real time, they've made the kind of changes that you don't notice unless you look for them.
James Poniewozik said this much more elegantly at Time:
Mad Men’s most distinctive function is that it’s a time-lapse machine. Its most simple but radical premise has been to say: Here is what it looks like, how it feels, for ten years of life to pass. …Most TV series distend time, deny it, cheat it. M*A*S*H took 11 years to fight a three-year war. Bart Simpson remains in grade school even though, as a character born in 1987, he is old enough to be his own father.
Mad Men, on the other hand, has covered about a decade of its time in about a decade of our own.… It’s a potent effect: Just like in life, you don’t notice the gradual changes until you look back and — holy cow — how far have they come? How far have we? Where has the time gone, besides into the creases of our foreheads?

Looking back at the first season is like riffling through a forgotten stack of college photos. When they're first taken, you put them on Facebook or print them out and stick them to a bulletin board. You look at them so much that they're just a mirror: this is me, these are my friends. Then you put them away, and five or 10 years later, you find yourself wondering, Who are these gangly teenagers? Were we ever really that young?
Of course Mad Men's characters have changed. They're 10 years older. Their first-graders have become teenagers. Their engagements have become marriages have become divorces have become remarriages. They have started a company and sold it, bought property and let go of it, moved from the East Coast to the West Coast and back again.


Betty's inability to cope with her mother's death has turned into a graceful acceptance of her own mortality. Don has gone from a man who skips Sally's birthday party to a father who calls her even when he's on the lam in Oklahoma. Even Pete seems to have gained some last-minute clarity and won a second chance with Trudy.
And, of course, they haven't changed. They're still the same people they've always been. Betty might have found a surprising amount of grace in her cancer diagnosis, but her parting message to her daughter still deals largely with her appearance — she's never lost her self-centered brittleness, or her belief that her looks are the most important thing about her. Don is still the man who stares out the window at a meeting and in the next scene is gone, past Wisconsin, past Minnesota.
There are a collection of personality traits known as the "big five" that are believed to be more or less immutable. You can change your reaction to things, you can change your behavior to the people around you, you can become different enough that you seem different, but underneath it all, you are still you.

It's easier than ever today to revel in the past, and to do so not just with nostalgia but with accuracy. We document things we didn't used to document. We take more photos every two minutes than were taken in all of the 19th century. The result isn't buried in basements or sandwiched away in photo albums, but at our fingertips. With two clicks on my laptop, I can relive important moments from a decade ago: a photo of my mother putting on my high school graduation cap, my college packing list, the 2005 Facebook friend requests from some of the most important people in my life. There is an entire app, Timehop, that exists solely to surprise us with something from our rapidly accumulating internet past.

Why do we do this? Not just for the fun of seeing who we used to be, but for the shock of recognition when we realize that's still who we are. The moments that resonate are when you look back at the old photo and see your same smile beaming out from under that terrible haircut, or when you read a sentence from the eighth grade that you could have written yesterday. That's when you realize the inscrutable person from the past with the weird, outdated concerns was  you — and still is. Seeing how much we haven't changed is the way we recognize how much we have.

Mad Men is such a slow-moving show that it's a rewarding binge-watch. The viewers of the future who discover it that way will get a much more straightforward Boyhood effect. Wherever they think the series comes down on whether people can fundamentally change, they'll get the answer in mere days or months, not almost a decade.
But they'll miss a subtle effect of having tuned into this show week after week, year after year. We've all been on our own decade-long journey along with the characters. And that means that when we reflect back on the passage of time and what's happened to them since the show began, we also recall what's happened to us.

I watched Mad Men through my final year of college, through three internships and four jobs in four cities. I watched "Shut the Door, Have a Seat" while making chicken tortilla soup for my then-boyfriend in a crowded group house in Washington, DC; I watched "The Suitcase" alone in a one-bedroom apartment in Scranton, Pennsylvania. Like Peggy, I've gone from a hesitant, fresh-faced new employee to a more confident and seasoned veteran; like Joan, I've learned much more about what I want from the world, even if demanding something doesn't mean you'll get it.
Have I changed since Mad Men began? Of course I have. But am I still the same person? Of course I am. "Can people change?" might be the question at the heart of the series. But it's not a question you can answer with a simple yes or no.
Read the recap, and come back Sunday for thoughts from Amanda.
Previous entry
Next: Amanda asks if Don is already lost

On Tuesday, Facebook announced Instant Articles, a new feature that dramatically speeds up the loading time for news articles by hosting them on Facebook's servers. Since then, I've seen a number of people I usually agree with, including Chris Mims and Mathew Ingram, make arguments against Facebook Instant Articles. But the more I think about it, the more I'm convinced that the controversy will look silly in a couple of years.
Fundamentally, Instant Articles are an effort to solve a technical problem — slow loading times for articles — with a technical solution — pre-loading articles so that they're available immediately. Media organizations have been relying on third parties to distribute their content more efficiently for years; the shift to Facebook-hosted articles isn't fundamentally different than earlier shifts to content-delivery networks like Akamai or video-hosting services like YouTube.
The benefits to users are immediate and obvious. The harms to journalism are speculative and for the most part they don't withstand close scrutiny. Here's why.
People spend an incredible amount of time on Facebook, and that gives the social media site a ton of influence over which news articles people read. I think critics are right to worry that Facebook could abuse this power.
Facebook referrals account for a huge share of web traffic. Here's some data from Shareaholic:
Shareaholic
By the end of 2014, Facebook was responsible for one-quarter of all traffic to the sites Shareaholic studied, dwarfing other sites like Pinterest and YouTube. This is consistent with our own experience at Vox: Facebook consistently drives dramatically more traffic to Vox.com than any other source.
This is made more alarming by the way Facebook's news feed works. To avoid overwhelming users with content, Facebook has an opaque algorithm that tries to predict which of their friends' posts users will be most interested and shows them first. In practice, that means that Facebook has a ton of discretion to decide how much traffic each site gets from Facebook.
Losing access to Facebook traffic would be a huge financial cost for most news sites, and that gives Facebook real power over the news industry. I'm told this was a major motivation for the first group of sites that signed up for Instant Articles — they were worried that if they didn't participate, Facebook would provide disproportionate traffic to their competitors.
But the key thing to notice here is that Facebook already had this power before Instant Articles came along. The power to play favorites comes from Facebook's ability to decide which articles to link to. Who hosts the content is irrelevant.

The big worry of Instant Article skeptics is that users will get used to the fast loading of Instant Articles, and that this will have two negative effects. First, as the experience of reading news on Facebook improves, more people will do it, further expanding Facebook's market share and — therefore — its power. And second, users will become more reluctant to click on links to outside articles and wait several seconds for the article to load.
This argument doesn't take the welfare of Facebook users seriously. The several-second delay between the time a user clicks on a link and the time she's able to read an article is a real problem. Reducing that delay will, in the aggregate, save billions of minutes of wasted time and frustration. News organizations should want that not only because it's good for their readers but also because it will cause readers to read more news articles.
It might also make Facebook more popular, but if it does so it will be because it's providing more value to its users. It would be pretty cynical to view that as a problem.


The New York Times is hugely dependent on this company to get articles to its readers. (Etienne Franchi/AFP/Getty Images)

A big part of the uproar over Instant Articles seems to come from the perception that this is an unprecedented change in the way news stories are distributed. But this is actually just the latest step in a long evolution.
Websites have always been dependent on internet service providers like Comcast and Verizon to get their articles to customers. Today, virtually all websites also rely on third-party content delivery networks to efficiently distribute their content. And a lot of media companies use video services like YouTube and, yes, Facebook video to deliver video for customers.
The big difference between Facebook Instant and earlier distribution platforms is that Facebook has a bit more control over how content is presented to readers. But it's not obvious why this matters. No one thinks it's a threat to journalisms when newspapers syndicate one another's articles. The value of a New York Times article is in its content, not the design of the webpage that surrounds it.
A fair number of critics see Instant Articles as threatening because it means Facebook is competing with news organizations. But there's a fundamental difference between creating content and distributing it. Facebook isn't becoming a news organization any more than AT&T, Akamai, or YouTube are news organizations. Instant Articles a content distribution system that — like those other services — helps news organizations get their work to users.


Cable companies pay a lot of money for content like this. (Al Messerschmidt/Getty Images)

To get a sense for how much leverage content producers can have in negotiations with distribution networks, it's worth looking to the cable industry, where media conglomerates periodically negotiate with cable companies to carry their television programming. You might expect cable companies to hold all the cards here, since cable companies control the pipes that actually deliver content to users
Yet surprisingly, media companies often get the upper hand in these negotiations. ESPN, for example, keeps raising its rates, and cable companies are forced to pay to avoid losing sports-loving customers. The value of the cable subscription comes from the quality of the programming the cable network offers. A cable subscription is worth a lot less without ESPN than with it.
The same point applies to Facebook. If Facebook stopped linking to New York Times articles, a lot of users would notice and object. Some of them would switch to another way of reading news. Others would just click on fewer links. It remains to be seen how much leverage news organizations will have, but they're far from powerless.
Several people, including the Wall Street Journal's Chris Mims, have analogized Facebook to Darth Vader in a famous scene from The Empire Strikes Back, in which Vader reneges on a deal he'd made with Lando Calrissian:

Facebook to publishers every day forever pic.twitter.com/HdqEzciDzz


The idea here is that once news sites join Instant Articles, they'll lose all of their leverage and Facebook will be able to impose more and more unfavorable terms on them.
But this ignores the fact that these deals are non-exclusive. The New York Times isn't shutting down its website, and the majority of its traffic and revenues will continue to be generated there. And so when the time comes for the Times to renegotiate its contract with Facebook, it will have more or less the same leverage it had the first time around: the option to leave the program and go back to just providing articles on its website.
Mathew Ingram, for example, points to the bad experience of companies like Zynga that built apps atop Facebook's platform, only to have Facebook shift directions and leave these partners in the lurch. The difference, though, was that Zynga's most successful games were designed primarily for Facebook; Facebook users accounted for 80 percent of Zynga's revenue. But the New York Times isn't replacing nytimes.com with a Facebook app. If Facebook abandons Instant Articles in the future, things will go back to the way they were last week, with no lasting damage to the Times or other Instant Article partners.
It's exceedingly rare for distribution networks to engage in the kind of censorship Mims alludes to here:

What happens the day a publisher decides to post an anti-Facebook piece to Facebook Instant


Here at Vox.com, we not only count Comcast among our investors, we also rely on Comcast to deliver our website to a large fraction of our audience. Yet these facts have had zero impact on my ability to write nasty articles like this when I thought it was appropriate.
This isn't just because there would be a huge public uproar and probably unwelcome scrutiny from regulators if Comcast tried to block articles it didn't like. It's also because large-scale electronic distribution networks just aren't set up for this kind of censorship.
The same point applies to Facebook. It would be monumentally stupid for Facebook to try to use its power over news publishers to try to censor anti-Facebook articles. This would not only fail to suppress criticism (after all, people can find the articles lots of other ways), but it would trigger the Streisand effect and create a huge PR headache for the company.
Of course, Facebook's policies bar users from sharing certain types of content, such as pornography and hate speech, from Instant. And it's possible that this could lead to self-censorship by publishers. But to repeat my first point, this would be a reflection of power Facebook already had due to its large user base. Instant Articles doesn't matter one way or the other.
From out of the wasteland of bad computer-generated effects and endless comic book adaptations, action movie fans' best hope for something truly original is ... Mad Max: Fury Road, a sequel to a movie series that saw its last installment released in 1985.
If you're not a serious cinephile, it's entirely possible you haven't ever seen a Mad Max movie. They don't replay on television endlessly, and their popularity seems to have waned over the years — which makes Warner Bros.' choice to bankroll a big-budget sequel to the original trilogy a little strange. But thank goodness the company did, because Fury Road is action movie perfection.
Modern cinematic dystopias fall into one of two categories: Blade Runner or Mad Max
But even if you haven't seen a Mad Max movie, you've seen a movie influenced by a Mad Max movie — whether you know it or not. At the end of a recent screening of the film, director Edgar Wright (of Hot Fuzz and Scott Pilgrim fame) opined that modern cinematic dystopias fall into one of two categories: Blade Runner or Mad Max.
And it's hard to see how Wright could be wrong.
The original Max (Mel Gibson) walks the post-apocalyptic wasteland in The Road Warrior.
Warner Bros.
The Mad Max franchise is a throwback to the action heroes of the 1970s and '80s, where, often, the only continuing element between films was the protagonist. (Think of the Indiana Jones films, for instance.) And all four films are at least very good. This is one of the most consistent franchises in movie history.
"Mad" Max Rockatansky, played in the original trilogy by Mel Gibson and in Fury Road by Tom Hardy, is a drifter in a post-apocalyptic wasteland, emerging from the desert to visit the small communities where human civilization clings to life as fiercely as possible. The character and the Australian outback are the only throughlines that span all four films.

Mad Max (1979): Max is a police officer and dedicated family man in a world that is technically mid-apocalyptic. Energy shortages are causing some desperation, but society is mostly chugging along. Max even has time to go on vacation in the middle of the movie. What really drives the action are the car chases, which are fast, furious, and frequent. The film was produced on a minuscule budget in Australia, and it's a lean little thriller about cops in pursuit of the gangs who control the highways and one man pushed to his limit. Halfway through the film, Max experiences a horrific tragedy that haunts him throughout the rest of the franchise, and his behavior in the final third earns him the nickname "Mad Max." Official Vox rating: 4 out of 5.
Mad Max 2 (1981): Also known as The Road Warrior (the title I'll refer to for the rest of this story), this film is a nearly perfect action movie. The energy crisis has worsened to the point where fuel has become a precious, hard-to-find resource. Max, hardened by his experiences in the first film, comes upon a band of settlers and ends up helping them survive attacks by a gang led by someone known as "the Humungus." The film follows more of a Western plot structure, and there are some phenomenal chase scenes peppered throughout. Official Vox rating: 5 out of 5.
Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome (1985): The most divisive film in the series and the final to star Gibson, Thunderdome takes place several years after Road Warrior, with fuel almost completely gone and the growing desert (caused by an unspecified nuclear apocalypse) consuming everything. Max comes upon a place called Bartertown, where he's conscripted by leader Aunty Entity (Tina Turner) to destroy a threat to her rule. His later adventures lead him to a group of children who speak in a kind of deformed English (possibly influenced by the great novel Riddley Walker) and into one final, climactic chase. It's a bit misshapen as a movie, but it possesses great imagination. Official Vox rating: 4 out of 5.
These films were all wildly profitable, but they didn't make so much money that a fourth film was inevitable.
Mad Max: Fury Road (2015): Max is now played by Tom Hardy, and his backstory is established in a quick prologue before he sets off on a lengthy chase that consumes nearly the entire movie — with his new pal the Imperator Furiosa (Charlize Theron) by his side. Wild and imaginative and stocked with impressive thematic ideas, it's hard to imagine this summer producing a better popcorn movie than Fury Road. Official Vox rating: 4.5 out of 5.
Yes. We can even do so in charts and graphs!
Javier Zarracina/Vox
It's more varied than you might expect. For example, is it technically a chase when Max and Furiosa's pursuers are far enough behind that they have time to discuss their backstories, but still close enough that they have to keep driving? Yes. We're skewing toward the conservative side here and only counting scenes where the characters are in the thick of a really contentious chase, where either side might prevail.
What's important is that Fury Road seems constructed out of pure momentum and speed. That makes it feel like it never lets up — even though it's very cleverly structured to give you brief respites from the action.
Of course!
This quick look at a chase scene in Mad Max should give you a great sense of Miller's hyper-kinetic editing style.
A horrified Max observes a violent car crash.
Warner Brothers
Meanwhile, this moment from the climactic chase in The Road Warrior offers a quick taste of Miller's love of suggested gore.
Max takes care of some gang members in terrifically bloody fashion.
Warner Brothers
Finally, here is a quick look at the Thunderdome, because nothing is quite like the Thunderdome.
Two men enter; one man leaves.
Warner Brothers
Not at all. All four films tell self-contained stories, and everything you need to know about Max is conveyed in the first five minutes of Fury Road. Having seen the earlier films will certainly enhance your viewing experience, but it's not necessary to have a great time.
So much. Just the idea of a desert wasteland populated by nomads who occasionally do battle with motor vehicles didn't really exist pre–Road Warrior, and now it's essentially a staple of post-apocalyptic fiction.
Every other scene in the first three movies will make you say, "Oh, that's where that comes from"
Miller was building atop other post-apocalyptic scenarios when he constructed the Mad Max universe — the idea of small communities hanging on in the face of absolute devastation is a staple of the genre — but by melding that concept with elements of the Western (the aimless drifter who comes in out of the wilderness) and action movies (all those car chases!), he invented a new subgenre almost entirely on his own.
The Mad Max films also introduced Mel Gibson to the world and eventually made him a superstar. Indeed, Gibson was supposed to star in Fury Road — which was originally scheduled to shoot in 2001, before the 9/11 terrorist attacks and subsequent collapse of the American dollar made it too expensive to film — but his age and controversial personal behavior eventually made it necessary to recast the role.
Finally, the Mad Max films are responsible for so much ephemera that has worked its way into the general pop culture subconscious. From the phrase "two men enter, one man leaves" — a gift from Thunderdome — to the way the apocalypse seems to give everybody license to wear lots of leather, every other scene in the first three movies will make you say, "Oh, that's where that comes from."
Director George Miller attends the Mad Max: Fury Road press conference during the 68th annual Cannes Film Festival.
The primary creative inspiration behind Mad Max and its sequels is Australian director George Miller. Miller has made far too few films, but he's one of the great visual stylists and action directors of his generation. His movies teem with ideas and images. Even the low-budget Mad Max suggests a larger world than it can actually depict through cleverly chosen costume and set pieces.
Miller hasn't made a live-action movie since 1998 (he directed both Happy Feet films in the 2000s), and the first 20 minutes of Fury Road are a little exhausting, so much does he want to get all of his ideas up there on screen. There's a little person who sits in a tall chair to gaze into a telescope and survey the wasteland. There are "war boys" who cry out about entering Valhalla and spray themselves with chrome. There are lactating women whose breast milk feeds the leader of the compound where the movie's action begins.
Those 20 minutes, though, are a nearly perfect introduction to the way Miller constantly throws new ideas at the audience and doesn't pause to explain them. He simply trusts you to keep up, to grasp what's important and understand what's just there as a visual flourish.
Miller is also a great director of action. He knows the genre can't constantly push the pedal to the metal. It needs to have built-in points where things ease up — at least a little bit. To illustrate this, here's a clip from one of Miller's films that has absolutely nothing to do with Mad Max; it's from Babe: Pig in the City.

Miller lingers in that moment when the character seems doomed and, more importantly, realizes he's doomed
The chase sequence in this film is unrelenting and intense, particularly for a children's movie, but Miller understands intuitively that he has to underline the gravity of what's happening — hence the moment above, which is oddly forthright about death considering the target audience. Of course Babe lives to save the day, but Miller lingers in that moment when the character seems doomed and, more importantly, realizes he's doomed. That makes the ultimate triumph all the sweeter.
All of these qualities come together in the following fight from Thunderdome. Max is trying to defeat the gigantic Blaster, but Blaster's only weakness is high-pitched noises. Fortunately, Max has a whistle. But will he get to blow it in time? Miller expertly plays up that tension.

Miller has more on his mind than the qualities of action cinema. The Mad Max films are, on some level, about humanity's inability to properly manage resources, and both the third and fourth films feature some sneakily feminist moments. His two Babe movies (he wrote and produced both and directed the second) tackle prejudice in a way kids can understand. And he also made Lorenzo's Oil, a lovely family drama about two parents trying to find a cure for their son's debilitating disease.
The Mad Max films aren't all Miller, though — others have been key to their creation. In particular, George Ogilvie co-directed Thunderdome with Miller, while Byron Kennedy produced the first two. (He died after Road Warrior, and Thunderdome is dedicated to him.) Terry Hayes is the only writer other than Miller who's credited on more than one film (the second and third), while comic book artist Brendan McCarthy helped Miller draw up storyboards that served as a visual script for Fury Road.
Tom Hardy takes over the role of Max in Fury Road.
Warner Bros.
It's difficult to overstate just how meticulously and perfectly constructed this movie is. It's as if Miller took everything he knows about directing action sequences and applied it to the whole two-hour runtime. And because he knows how to relieve tension, the movie never feels as exhausting as it probably could have.
The plot, ultimately, is kind of bland. A major plot point hinges on the characters essentially making a U-turn, and the story is literally "travel from point A to point B." But that's not what watching the movie feels like. In the middle, it feels like the most exciting, most over-the-top, most spectacular thing you've ever seen. It redefines the adjective "eye-popping."
In particular, the film's use of color is exemplary. With so many current blockbusters looking washed-out and needlessly gritty, Fury Road is set in a world of vibrant, gorgeous color — even though it takes place in a wasteland. Look at the image above to see how Miller uses highly saturated blues and yellows.
Fury Road is set in a world of vibrant, gorgeous color
What's most interesting is how Max is only nominally the main character. (At times, it feels as if Hardy is present just so the movie can have someone named Max in it.) Meanwhile, Furiosa is fearless, badass, and driven by a mission to free the young women that the film's chief villain uses as a harem; Theron is going to have dozens of people cosplaying as her at Comic-Con this year. The relationship that springs up between her and Max is built solely on convenience, but it's perhaps the most soulfully drawn partnership in the series.
And don't take just my word for this — Fury Road has an 89 on Metacritic. That's incredibly high for a summer blockbuster. Those reviews consistently point to two things that, ultimately, make Fury Road stand out: its practical effects and its dedication to feminist themes.
The fights in Mad Max: Fury Road are built around practical stunt work, not computer effects.
Warner Bros.
In almost every case, if you see something happening on screen in Fury Road, somebody really went out and performed it. Computer-generated effects are mostly used for scenes that would simply be too cost-prohibitive to actually film on location, like the one involving a giant sandstorm that swallows the characters whole.
This gives Fury Road a palpable sense of reality that has been missing from too many action movies in recent years. When cars smash into each other, it's real. When characters dip from tall poles mounted into the backs of vehicles into cars beside them to snatch up passengers, that's also real. When a guy hangs from the front of a giant vehicle, playing rock riffs on an electric guitar that belches flame, that's also real — and it's sadly not a job you can apply for.
Your brain can subconsciously process the difference between actual people and bits tumbling around inside a computer
As an experiment, try watching an action sequence from Avengers: Age of Ultron (a movie I really like), and then watching one from Fury Road to see how concerned you truly feel about the characters. In the latter film, that level of concern will be off the charts. You may not consciously notice the difference, but your brain can subconsciously process the difference between actual people in actual (albeit heavily faked) jeopardy and bits of information tumbling around inside a computer.
There's nothing inherently wrong with computer-generated effects, but far too many movies use them as a crutch to depict absolutely anything at all. That means everything skews toward being as "awesome" as possible — and when that happens, nothing is.
Charlize Theron's Imperator Furiosa (right) might actually be the main character of Mad Max: Fury Road.
So-called men's rights activists are upset that Fury Road tells a story where a woman attempts to take other women away from a system that subjugates them, in order to establish some sort of matriarchy elsewhere.
Here's Aaron Clarey at the blog Return of Kings, in response to reviews pointing out that Furiosa is essentially the lead character in Fury Road:
[What's at stake] is whether men in America and around the world are going to be duped by explosions, fire tornadoes, and desert raiders into seeing what is guaranteed to be nothing more than feminist propaganda, while at the same time being insulted AND tricked into viewing a piece of American culture ruined and rewritten right in front of their very eyes.
The truth is I’m angry about the extents Hollywood and the director of Fury Road went to trick me and other men into seeing this movie. Everything VISUALLY looks amazing. It looks like that action guy flick we’ve desperately been waiting for where it is one man with principles, standing against many with none.
Somehow, Clarey misses that the original films are Australian in origin and take place in futuristic Australia, but that's neither here nor there. The larger point is that Miller has turned what looks like a hyper-masculine action film into a larger treatise on how little room there is for women in hyper-masculine action films — suggesting that perhaps there's a better way, not just for post-apocalyptic societies but for our own. He even called in Vagina Monologues author Eve Ensler to consult.
As Keith Phipps (whom I have worked with before) points out in his review at the Dissolve:
Rather than confining this element to the margins, Fury Road takes it as a primary theme, revealing Furiosa’s journey as not just flight from Immortan Joe, but a search for a safe place removed from the madness and tyranny of men. The question, "Who killed the world?" gets raised a couple of times, first as graffiti, then as a bit of dialogue, and it’s always a woman asking the question.
Fury Road's feminist themes take aim at any time men mistreat women at all, suggesting it is fundamental to making the world a worse place
The larger point is that the Mad Max films have always taken place "a few years from now," in a world that is like ours, but twisted a few degrees to the right. People fight over increasingly scarce resources. They form tribal societies that suspect outsiders. They settle things through bloody but inventive combat. It feels a little like where we live, just heightened, as if we might descend into this situation at the drop of a hat.
Fury Road's feminist themes, then, don't just take aim at the hyper-masculine world of action films. They take aim at any time men mistreat women at all, then suggest that that mistreatment is fundamental in making the world a worse place. It's a bold tack to take in a film that is, on some level, about who can drive a car the fastest, but that's part of what makes Fury Road feel less like yet another sequel and more like the start of something new.
The original trilogy is available on DVD and for digital rental. Fury Road is playing in theaters everywhere, in both 2D and 3D.
WATCH: Breaking down the chaos of a Mad Max car chase
There was nothing glaringly wrong with Pitch Perfect, the bubbly and disarming 2012 sleeper hit that plunked us into the universe of undergraduate a cappella singing. It relied on a tried and true formula employed by movies like Bring It On, The Mighty Ducks, Sister Act, and at least one season of Glee: a team of plucky underdogs are in upheaval, they struggle to get along, they break down, and then they come together for the big finale. And while it didn't boast Avengers-level box office numbers, Pitch Perfect more than carried its weight, cost-wise, with a decent box office performance and a stunning showing in DVD sales.

Rating


Given the film's success, its sequel could have easily returned to that formula. But thankfully, director and producer Elizabeth Banks and screenwriter Kay Cannon have decided to tinker, tweak, and give the franchise a new beginning with Pitch Perfect 2.
Beca (Anna Kendrick) and the rest of the Barden Bellas pick up where they left off  — the Bellas are polished national champions performing at the Kennedy Center when disaster strikes in the form of a Fat Amy (the indomitable Rebel Wilson) wardrobe malfunction. And just like that, the Bellas are aca-underdogs again, and need to win big at the world championships in Copenhagen or be dissolved. This also means defeating a seemingly unbeatable German super team called Das Sound Machine.
But getting to Copenhagen and the Bellas' do-or-die moment isn't as straightforward as winning sectionals, then regionals, then nationals. Their path is a little more uneven and winding than that, allowing the Bellas to explore the depths of female friendship, the fear of graduating, and their a cappella group's past by way of wide-eyed newcomer Emily Junk (Hailee Steinfeld). Along the way, we're also treated to soft-boiled romances, hipster work environments, and strange a cappella myth-building.
The humor that fills the spaces between those themes is crasser and quicker than the jabs of the first film, and while the result isn't perfect, it's funnier, weirder, and more daring than its predecessor. And it's a better movie because of it.

(Universal)
The most fascinating element of the Pitch Perfect franchise is that Beca, its protagonist, is actually kind of a monster. In the first movie, her dad, the Bellas, her roommate Kimmy Jin (Jinhee Joung), and her love interest Jesse (Skylar Astin) all feel the wrath of her self-centeredness as she channeled all her energy into getting a foot in the door at a record company (even though the music industry isn't what it used to be) and sulking when it didn't go her way. But Beca's jerkiness seemed to have smoothed itself out by the last performance.
The monster is back for round two, and once again, she's laser-focused on her record-producing dreams. The secrets she keeps in trying to achieve her goals damage the group, and as a result, Beca ends up becoming one of Pitch Perfect 2's biggest villains.
Cynical Eeyore that she is, Beca really drives home how relatively little the other Bellas have going for them. College is coming to an end, but none of them have lined up any internships or jobs. I genuinely worry for members like the soft-speaking Lilly (Hana Mae Lee) and the indistinguishable duo of Jessica (Kelly Jakle) and Ashley (Shelley Regner).
But Grumpy Beca keeps the movie taut, because her negativity highlights how much Chloe (Brittany Snow), now a third-year super senior, and Steinfeld's Emily, a legacy Bella, both cherish being Bellas. For Chloe, the Bellas are the only things she's sure of. Emily hopes being part of the Bellas will help her find her identity. Snow and Steinfeld are both disarming as two different kinds of vulnerable dorks.
Fat Amy, who deserves her own movie, is Beca's only real friend, the only one in touch with what's happening in her life.
Perhaps there's something deeper here: the film acknowledges that despite this group's intimacy and all the time they've spent together, they still don't know each other that well, and that there's a difference between family and friendship. That's more complex than anything we see in the first film.

(Universal)
The most frustrating aspect of watching Pitch Perfect 2 in a movie theater is not being able to hear the secondary jokes. There's a pace and rhythm to the humor in both Pitch Perfect movies — there's an initial uppercut ("I ate my twin in the womb" or "You have a little something behind your ear") which is usually followed up by a softer, more subtle jab, be it a facial expression or seven-word afterthought ("Leave it. It fuels my hate fire.")
In this installment, the uppercuts frequently swing into dark territory that sometimes strays into the offensive. For example, Flo (Chrissie Fit) is a Bella from Guatemala who constantly reminds the other Bellas of her tough home life; her personal history includes being sold for a chicken, hiding bodies, faking her own death, and contracting malaria. Cynthia Rose's (Esther Dean) sole purpose is to make lesbian jokes, much like the way Lilly is thrown around just to be weird. The writing has a few moments, but these nonwhite Bellas are often treated as one-note sideshows.
Meanwhile, Banks and John Michael Higgins reprise their roles from the first film as the satirical a cappella play-by-play commentators Gail and John. The swift interplay between Gail and John is where the film goes for the most cackles and is truly at its best. They take turns cruelly needling each other under a veneer of polite a cappella commentary, and the chemistry between Banks and Higgins is a delight.
That said, a home viewing might be necessary to hear those crucial follow-up lines and to get the full effect of Cannon's sharp humor.

(Universal)
And neither was Pitch Perfect.
Even though Pitch Perfect 2 feels like a fresh start, it kept the best element from the first movie — one fleeting scene that's irresistibly joyous and charming. While there's a brief moment at the world championships that left me verklempt, the scene that truly makes the movie comes much earlier.
It happens during Emily's "audition" for the disgraced Bellas. Because of Fat Amy's wardrobe malfunction, the Bellas aren't allowed to accept new members, but Emily, not putting two and two together, is desperate to be part of this (sinking though she doesn't know it) ship. It's hopeful, dorky, honest, and unashamed of being awkward. A cappella isn't something everyone wants to do, as Beca constantly reminds us, but for this kid, it's all she's ever wanted to do. And when Pitch Perfect 2 is at its best, it makes you feel, for just a second, like you want to, too.
Attending any event that celebrates The CW is a deeply weird experience. Though the network is easily in fifth place behind ABC, CBS, Fox, and NBC (and actually in sixth place behind Univision and sometimes behind several cable networks), it boasts incredibly passionate fans — fans who will line up outside of nearly any gathering of its stars, causing pandemonium as they try to catch a glimpse.
Such an occasion was the network's upfront presentation to advertisers — designed to convince them to purchase commercial time on its upcoming fall schedule. Even though the network had its best season ever in 2014-'15, the assembled ad buyers sat in stony silence through much of the presentation. A clip reel for The CW's acclaimed, comedic telenovela Jane the Virgin mostly fell flat (for shame, ad buyers!), while a live performance by rock band Of Monsters and Men felt a little incongruous.
Weirdly, The CW has the opposite problem of every other broadcast network. If those other networks have to convince ad buyers they're young and hip enough to attract viewers who aren't approaching senescence, The CW has to convince said ad buyers that its complicated business strategy — which is equal parts traditional broadcast, cable, and digital (see more here) — isn't some wild, fly-by-night operation. In short, it needs to convince Mom and Dad it's old enough to borrow the car.
And it just might be close to doing so.
For a look at the schedule and trailers for The CW's three new shows, click here. For my thoughts on what the network is up to, read on.
The network posted its best ratings ever in 2014-'15, thanks to the arrival of its new hit The Flash, even as several of its former hits kept chugging along. And in January, it unprecedentedly renewed its entire fall lineup before later renewing midseason show iZombie. The CW only canceled first-season flop The Messengers and dramedy Hart of Dixie, which had run for four seasons. For a network that only programs 10 hours per week, that's a pretty great track record.
There were warning signs here and there. Thursday-night drama Reign (the world's greatest ever teen soap about Mary, Queen of Scots) struggled to hold its own against ABC's Shonda Rhimes–driven Thursday lineup, and Jane the Virgin never quite attained the breakout status it deserved. But The CW's overall programming slate was, far and away, the most consistent it had ever fielded, thanks to a combination of soaps and superheroes. And as if that weren't enough, the network took home its first ever major award, when Jane star Gina Rodriguez won the Golden Globe for best actress in a comedy or musical series.
The story of ABC's recent resurgence has earned far more press this upfronts season, but The CW is in the middle of a boom time, and it seems likely the network's luck will continue. CW head Mark Pedowitz has a knack for knowing when to stick with something safe and when to swing for the fences, and he has far more successes than failures to his name. That's a good position to be in as the network's former signature series, The Vampire Diaries, enters a seventh season that won't feature one of its core stars (Nina Dobrev).
The CW was born in the fall of 2006, the child of a merger between the Paramount-owned (and thus CBS-owned) UPN and the Warner Brothers–owned The WB. CBS is the network's corporate parent — which is why it occasionally ends up airing hand-me-downs from CBS, like the one-season Sarah Michelle Gellar vehicle Ringer — but CBS Television and Warner Bros. are, theoretically, supposed to provide equal amounts of programming to The CW's lineup, thus increasing their chances of getting shows into the lucrative syndication and streaming market.
However, this just hasn't happened for CBS-produced shows. The only show hailing from that company to make it to 100 episodes in the history of The CW was 90210, which sputtered out after five seasons. Other than that, the CBS Television shows produced for The CW have mostly been failures. Meanwhile, Warner Bros.' list of hits on The CW is long and illustrious, featuring Smallville, The Vampire Diaries, Arrow, and The Flash. And The CW is hugely dependent on the comic book superhero shows Warner Bros. gives it, makes it difficult to hang on to CBS shows.
Perhaps that's why Reign and Jane — both produced on the CBS side of things — received not entirely justified renewals in January. (Certainly Jane deserved one creatively, but it struggles in the ratings.) The greatest strategy for The CW's continued success very well may be a long string of superhero series — but putting a long string of superhero series on the air would mean relying completely on Warner Bros. programming and would thus be impossible.
This has been a weird constant of this year's upfronts, where a network will get up on stage to talk about how its diverse programming is a good thing, from both a moral perspective and an economic one. That pitch makes a lot of sense if you're Fox and riding high on the hip-hop soap Empire. It also makes sense if you're ABC and have consciously branded yourself as a network that celebrates diversity. And it makes the most sense for Univision — explicitly aimed at a Spanish-language audience — to try to convince advertisers that it's in their best interests to court diverse viewers.
But The CW brought out Rodriguez to talk about why diverse representation is so important and why TV needs more actors of all races. It was a riff on things she's said many times before, and Rodriguez is one of TV's best diversity advocates right now. However, it was still a little strange that The CW stopped the show to deliver this presentation to advertisers, who had previously seemed a little cold toward the Jane clip reel.
Now, Jane is a low-rated show, so it's possible that it's just not on advertisers' radar, and The CW was simply attempting to boost its profile a bit. But it's still a Golden Globe–winning, critically acclaimed program that the network just loves; it shouldn't need to be sold again as if it were brand new. That there's still apparently some resistance to the show — and that many of the networks whose upfront presentations I attended emphasized the diversity theme as well — suggests there's real concern at a network level that no matter how much TV executives might see diversity as a good thing (or at least a hot trend), advertisers will take more convincing.
Then again, the network's huge support of Jane could just be part of The CW's daffy programming strategy. The network picked up three new shows, and all of them look varying degrees of hugely ambitious (occasionally on tiny budgets).
Crazy Ex-Girlfriend, the first TV series from viral video star Rachel Bloom, is basically a musical retelling of Felicity that the network inherited from its corporate cousin Showtime. (It will have to be expanded to an hourlong show and deal with some mild language issues, but Pedowitz suggested that it will otherwise remain largely the same as it was during its development at the pay cable network.) Going from a Showtime budget for the pilot to a CW budget for episode two should be an interesting challenge, but the show is certainly going to have novelty on its side.
Then there's Containment, one of those shows where you have no idea how it will last beyond season one, but you sort of want to see everybody try all the same. It deals with a deadly virus that causes part of Atlanta to be sealed off from the rest of the world. The virus's 100 percent fatality rate promises gore galore. The attractive cast promises kissing. That sounds like a CW recipe for success.
And finally, there's Legends of Tomorrow, which brings me to my fifth and final thought on The CW's new schedule...
But the best show The CW presented is its latest DC adaptation, Legends of Tomorrow, which looks absolutely whackadoodle perfect. By the time the trailer introduced the time-traveling man from South London named Rip Hunter, I was in — and that was before Brandon Routh (as the Atom) shrunk down to Ant-Man size and bopped around.
The show reunites many of the most fun recurring characters from The Flash and Arrow, and it's another show where I have no idea what season two could possibly look like. But come on. A time-traveling man named Rip Hunter. Legends of Tomorrow is going to be the best show ever made.

Spoilers from the season finale of The Vampire Diaries are below.
The CW’s fall schedule, as Jen Trolio noted, isn’t changing much: as has worked for the network in the past, the lineup is full of superheroes and supernatural beings, all played by preternaturally pretty young people. One major change, though: the veteran drama The Vampire Diaries, now in it sixth season, is losing one of its three leads as Nina Dobrev departs to "live life like a twentysomething," as she told People magazine.
Dobrev announced her exit from the show in an Instagram post on April 6, which included a picture of her with showrunner Julie Plec and a note addressed to fans. She wrote, "I always knew I wanted Elena’s story to be a six season adventure, and within those six years I got the journey of a lifetime."
Dobrev has always had a central role in the show: she's played three separate characters, all doppelgängers of one another, as well as playing her original character, Elena Gilbert, in varying states (human, vampire, humanity-free vampire, or one version pretending to be another). She also served as one point of the central love triangle that gave the earlier seasons much of their shape, falling in love first with 150-something-year-old vampire Stefan Salvatore (Paul Wesley) and then with his older brother, Damon (Ian Somerhalder, whom she famously dated in real life).
Dobrev's announcement could be seen as a bit oddly timed, coming before the end of the season and putting the audience's focus on how exactly the writers would wrap up her character's arc and the current Elena-Damon romance. As Carrie Raisler wrote at the AV Club: "Knowing Nina Dobrev is leaving the show and Ian Somerhalder is staying adds a strange tinge to every Elena and Damon scene leading up to Dobrev’s inevitable departure. The fact that real-life television news is interfering with the story the show is trying to tell is an unfortunate effect of what is now essentially a 24-hour television news cycle in social media."
Last night's season finale answered the question of how Elena would be written off the show (bear with me): this season's big bad, witch Kai (Chris Wood), cast a spell linking Elena's life to that of her best friend, Bonnie Bennett, making Elena fated to stay in a state of suspended animation until Bonnie dies. Much of the episode then centered on each character saying goodbye to her via entering her subconscious, which gave some closure to the relationships while still leaving open the possibility that Elena might return at some point (given that, you know, she's not actually dead).
Dobrev is not the only cast member leaving TVD; Michael Trevino, who plays former werewolf hybrid turned werewolf again Tyler Lockwood, is departing to join the ABC pilot The Kingmakers. Chris Wood is reportedly also leaving, for a role in Plec’s new CW show, Cordon.
The Vampire Diaries has been renewed for a seventh season, which, judging from the final scene of last night's episode, employs the time-honored trope of jumping forward into a post-apocalyptic future. It remains to be seen how the show will work without its most famous leading lady — and whether fans will stick around to find out.
Fans of True Detective who've been worried about the dramatic chops of Vince Vaughn and a mustachioed Colin Farrell, fear no more  — HBO has released a trailer for season two, and it looks pretty damn good.

"Sometimes your worst self is your best self," Vaughn says over shots of sprawling California highways, in what might be the enigmatic "time is a flat circle" quote of this season. It's hard to imagine True Detective without the bayous and backlands of Louisiana, but the show's gloomy tones and moral ambiguity play well in its new Southern California setting.
Three cops — detective Ray Velcoro (Farrell), sheriff Ani Bezzerides (Rachel McAdams), and highway patrol officer Paul Woodrugh (Taylor Kitsch)  — are at the center of the new story. Vaughn's Frank Semyon is an entrepreneur with criminal ties whose partner in a development deal becomes the victim of a mysterious murder.
True Detective creator Nic Pizzolatto wrote all eight episodes of the new season, which was filmed on location in California, and Vaughn has said that a large chunk of the action takes place in Los Angeles.
Several directors are set to take the helm throughout the season, replacing season one director Cary Fukunaga. Justin Lin (who directed movies three through six of the Fast & Furious franchise) will direct the first two episodes.
True Detective season two premieres Sunday, June 21 at 9pm on HBO.
Earlier this week, Fox announced it's canceling American Idol. As this survey from YouGov shows, Americans reacted by not caring at all:
American Idol
Younger people seem to care more than the old, but overall the reaction is pretty much ¯\_(ツ)_/¯.
Edgar Degas's sculpture Little Dancer, Aged Fourteen is one of the most famous works at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC. And because nothing pure can last in our fallen world, that means it's also ripe for cross-promotions: a Little Dancer industrial complex, if you will.
First there was the children's book Degas and the Little Dancer. Then the pink, girly Little Dancer tote bag. Last year, a full-blown Little Dancer musical — directed and written by Tony Award winners — premiered at the Kennedy Center. (Despite mixed reviews, the creators are hoping to mount another production in LA next summer.)
And now, available for $13 on the National Gallery's website, there is ... this.
National Gallery of Art
Wait. That doesn't look ... is that really the best place to hook the chain to...
National Gallery of Art
Oh dear.
There's only one explanation for this. Some anonymous purist, or a team of them, decided that the corporatization of Little Dancer had to end before it destroyed her soul. So they designed a pendant that turns your neck into a gallows for the world's most beloved inanimate ballerina.
We can't imagine who would spend $13 on what looks like a cheap souvenir of a juvenile execution. That must be exactly the point: it could only have been made as a tragic meta-commentary about what happens to a single work of art when it gets loved too greedily: cheaply commoditized, mass-produced, turned into a symbol of itself — a trademark, even — and strangled with its own ubiquity.
Well done, art-loving heroes. We salute you.
Every week, three of Vox's writers will discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, deputy culture editor Jen Trolio is joined by executive editor Matthew Yglesias and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Matthew Yglesias: Andrew, I liked your point that "Kill the Boy" refocuses a little on the question of who is actually using power responsibly versus the essentially personal squabbling of the great houses we've mostly seen until now.
Another example of this, I think, comes in the additional revelations about the circumstances of Ramsay Bolton's birth, which added a nice bit of a character development. But they also delivered some exposition about the nature of Bolton rule in the territory the Dreadfort controls, and served as a clear indication that the Boltons' rise to power is a genuine disaster for the people of the North. Conversely, even though it's been natural to root for kindly Margaery against slimy Cersei, we don't actually know anything about Tyrell governance or have any reason to believe their agenda for Westeros (if they have one) is any better than what the Lannisters have cooked up.
This is what makes Stannis such a fascinating character as the story unfolds.
He's the most rigid and uncompromising leader in Westeros, which eventually put him on a trajectory toward embracing kingship that's laden with responsibilities rather than privileges. In that sense, he has the makings of a much greater king than either of his brothers could ever have been, to say nothing of the monstrous Joffrey or the hapless Tommen.
But Stannis's leadership is also inextricably linked to Melisandre and the cult of R'Hllor. Personally, I'm a believer in the Lord of Light (I even own a "The Night Is Dark and Full of Terrors" T-shirt), but Game of Thrones' staging and atmospherics have led us to regard her as menacing.
And certainly it seems to me that there's going to be an enormous practical problem of attempting to rule Westeros while adhering to an obscure eastern religion. Tolerance and freedom of conscience could be one way out of this trap, albeit an awfully advanced one for Westeros's generally medieval state. But Melisandre doesn't seem like the tolerant type — she and Stannis burned all the icons of the Faith of the Seven for good luck before setting off from Dragonstone. If Stannis bests the Boltons and regains momentum in his quest for the throne, what happens on the religious front? Armed clashes with the newly restored Faith Militant? It's hard to imagine gaining the support of the masses while burning septs.
Then again, George R. R. Martin never depicted any religious tensions between Robb's Northern bannermen (who worship the Old Gods) and those from the Riverlands (who presumably follow the New), so maybe he wants us to believe that faith and legitimacy are not as intertwined in Westeros as they were in historical Europe.
Still, Melisandre has occupied a lot of screen time given how much else has been left on the cutting room floor. And having her march off to war alongside Stannis means something must be happening. Is Stannis's transformation into heroic protagonist going to set her up for a clear display of villainy? Is she going to surprisingly emerge as a more sympathetic character?
I must admit I've always felt she gets a bad rap. Is birthing a demon assassin to kill one man really worse than leading an army to slaughter thousands? Isn't it clear that if Renly and his might-makes-right theory of kingship had won that battle, disaster would ensued for everyone involved? If Stannis hadn't let his petty honor issues prevent her from accompanying him to the march on King's Landing, maybe we could have avoided a whole lot of subsequent unpleasantness with a few more demon babies. The show keeps setting her up as a villain, but I hope it redeems her.
What do you think, Jen? Any chance she'll emerge as a heroic figure?
Read the recap. Come back soon for more discussion.
Previous entry

The term "dad bod" was virtually absent from American conversation until April 30, when a 19-year-old Clemson sophomore named Mackenzie Pearson penned a story in the Clemson Odyssey titled "Why Girls Love the Dad Bod." Her argument was counter-intuitive, suggesting that women are more attracted to men whose physiques reflect "a nice balance between a beer gut and working out" than they are to hunks with washboard abs.
But, somehow, the idea caught on, and the story quickly began to go viral; it was only a matter of time before dad bod was being discussed by New York Magazine, GQ, the Washington Post, and more.
Google searches involving "dad bod."
The implications of the "dad bod," it turns out, hit on something. Responses to Pearson's assertion that women "don't want a guy that makes us feel insecure about our body" — and her theorem that standing next to a guy who's physically fit is enough to do exactly that — began appearing online almost instantly. Some people debated whether having a dad bod should be a source of pride or shame, while others expressed concern about what role dad bod plays in our views on male and female body image.
Here's a brief guide.
"Dad bod" is a male body type that is best described as "softly round." It's built upon the theory that once a man has found a mate and fathered a child, he doesn't need to worry about maintaining a sculpted physique.
If human bodies were cuts of meat, the dad bod would skew more marbled rib eye than filet mignon; or, if human bodies were sea mammals, dad bod would be more like a grazing manatee than a speedy dolphin. The dad bod is more mudslide than mountain, more soft serve than sorbet, more sad trombone than clarinet, more mashed potato than skinny fry. The dad bod is built for comfort.
Essentially, the dad bod is the ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ of human body types. And while the idea of worshiping a body type, especially one as openly low-effort as dad bod, might strike some as strange, even alarming, there are people out there who believe the dad bod is sexy.
Yes. Jon Hamm is considered to have a dad bod:
Jon Hamm, dad bod possessor.
And Don Draper, his character from Mad Men, definitely has a dad bod, too. Notice the lack of lift in the pecs and the lack of structure in his shoulders:
Mad Men.
Seth Rogen also has a dad bod, as seen here in Neighbors:
Neighbors.
But Hamm and Rogen's dad bods are Hollywood dad bods. They're made for film. And like nearly everything else in Hollywood, even dad bods are glamorized. Real-life dad bods may be less appealing:
(Roc Canals Arboli/Contributor/Getty Images)
Your mileage may vary:
Can you spot the dad bod in this bunch? (TASSO MARCELO/AFP/Getty Images)
The world has yet to see a celebration of mom bods that mimics society's newfound celebration of dad bods. In recent years, the major trend stories involving "mom bods" have generally focused on how famous moms have lost weight right after giving birth.
InStyle, a popular fashion magazine, has on its website a 13-photo slideshow titled "Star Bodies After Baby." It features the likes of Heidi Klum, who lost 25 pounds within six weeks of giving birth, and Jennifer Lopez, who lost 50 pounds after giving birth to twins. The message is simple: these moms are amazing for having bodies that do not suggest they've recently brought another human being into the world.
Building on this notion, The Daily Show aired a segment on Tuesday, May 12, that highlighted the double standard between the way we judge men's bodies and women's bodies:
The Daily ShowDaily Show Full Episodes,  More Daily Show Videos,  Comedy Central Full Episodes
Basically, to have a dad bod is to be exalted and praised, and to have a mom bod is to live a life full of shame.
It's a valid question. And the answer is: Maybe?
I don't think Pearson was trying to institute some kind of new world order of fat men when she wrote about dad bod for her student newspaper. But her piece does exemplify society's deeply ingrained double standard for judging men's and women's bodies.
From The King of Queens (on which Kevin James is married to Leah Remini) to Seinfeld (on which George Costanza dates many attractive women) to movies like Chef (where writer, director, and star Jon Favreau cast Scarlett Johansson as his friend with benefits and Sofia Vergara as his ex-wife), pop culture is full of instances of beautiful women throwing themselves at slovenly men. This praise for dad bods is life imitating art.
The dad bod craze encourages men to be complacent and suggests we applaud them for their unworked bodies. Meanwhile, women are consistently told they need to be skinny and toned to attract good-looking men.
Pop culture's clearest recent example of this unfair mandate is the plot of a 2013 episode of the HBO series Girls. "One Man's Trash" (season two, episode five) centers on a two-day tryst between Lena Dunham's character, Hannah, and a doctor named Joshua, who's played by Patrick Wilson. The episode famously drew backlash for suggesting that a woman who looks like Hannah could conceivably date a man who looks like Joshua.
Slate's Daniel Engber couldn't shake this idea. He wrote:
In sum, the episode felt like a finger poked in my guys-on-Girls eyeball, or a double-dog dare for me to ask, How can a girl like that get a guy like this? Am I small-minded if I’m stuck on how this fantasy is too much of a fantasy and remembering what Patrick Wilson’s real-life partner looks like?
The response to Dunham's "fantasy" and the relative acceptance of shows like King of Queens or movies like Neighbors (where Seth Rogen is paired with Rose Byrne) says a lot about dad bod. Flip the roles that Hannah and Joshua play on Girls, and you have the foundation of the dad bod phenomena.
As Brian Moylan writes in Time:
While a man is valued for his warm and fuzzy demeanor, a woman is valued as a sexual object. And the women in question don’t look like they’ve ever entered an all-you-can-eat Buffalo Wing contest like their Dad Bod brethren.
Right. But, like, someone else's dad could be sort of sexy. Brad Pitt is a dad. So are David Beckham and Christopher Meloni, and plenty of people find them sexy. But perhaps that's beside the point.
What Pearson was getting at in her column about dad bod is the idea that guys with dad bods are approachable and nonthreatening. She posits that because standing next to a perfectly sculpted guy can be intimidating, men with dad bods can make women feel less insecure. She also explains that men with dad bods are more fun and make better dinner partners because they aren't overly concerned with their calorie intake, and that when it comes to long-term relationship potential, it's easier to picture what they'll look like in the future (when they ostensibly stop going to the gym).
"To put it another way, a dad bod isn’t attractive because of what it looks like, but because of what it says," Peter Holley, a human with a self-proclaimed dad bod, wrote in the Washington Post. "A dad bod says I have a job, responsibilities and enough money to nod approvingly when someone says 'guacamole is extra.'"
Some men just want to watch the world burn. Holley would like to see it smeared in guacamole. And it appears that many women (I actually know the lovely young woman who's dating Holley) would be willing to spoon him while it happens.
No. Not all dads have dad bods. For example, David Beckham is a dad who has not let his body succumb to entropy. He models underwear:
(MARTIN BUREAU/AFP/Getty Images)
There is no rule that all dads must have dad bods. Conversely, there is no rule that only dads may have dad bods. In fact, Pearson seems to imply that men who are not yet dads but who have dad bods are the men she finds most attractive.
Most of the literature concerning dad bods is aimed at straight men and women. But gay men might have actually been down the dad bod road before anyone else. In 2013, the Cut wrote about the "Rise of the Daddies" — men like Anderson Cooper, Alan Cumming, and Tom Ford and the younger men who find them attractive. Granted, these "daddies" do not have dad bods.
Here's a nifty quiz that will help you figure it out.
Well, according to some people, it is.
BroScience, the hugely popular gym bro satire YouTube series (even I'm not sure what these words mean anymore), produced an episode that proclaims dad bod is "worse than Ebola":

"He's good at nothing but mediocre at everything," says Dom Mazzetti, the BroScience host. "He doesn't do anything enough to do anything with passion … He is a human Ugg, the sweatpants of people — something offensively unattractive, but comfortable and easy to use."
Though what Mazzetti says is satirical, you can't help but feel that Pearson's manifesto touched him on a personal level.
No.
Dad bods existed long before 19-year-old Pearson deemed them sexy. As long as beer flows freely and cheese and dough are in ample supply on this Earth, they will never cease to exist. But when the dad bod craze ends and the dust settles, there will be one constant that remains: American men still won't be held to the same standards of weight and beauty as American women are. And in its own softly round way, dad bod has helped us see this.
The CW might be the most vibrant, creative broadcast network going.
Its mixture of genre fare, weird teen soaps, and whatever you'd call Jane the Virgin has resurrected a channel that many TV commentators (including myself) had left for dead just a couple of years ago, when its ratings were redefining the idea of being in the basement and current network president Mark Pedowitz took over.
Granted, The CW only has to program 10 hours every week, which is less than any of its other four main competitors (ABC, CBS, Fox, and NBC). And because it's still a largely low-budget operation, Pedowitz can lean on good TV from other countries, acquiring series from the United Kingdom and Canada that will cross borders well. This has particularly worked for its unscripted content. For instance, The CW acquired a canceled British series called Penn & Teller: Fool Us and turned it into enough of a performer that it revived the show four years after it was initially canceled, for new episodes to air this summer.
But even with those caveats in mind, The CW is still a network that mostly avoids outright awful programming. It has shows I love, shows I like, and shows I'm indifferent toward, but it really doesn't have any shows worthy of outright hatred. And the series that comes the closest, its remake of Beauty and the Beast, is mostly a summer burn-off — and thus easy to ignore. No other broadcast network can say the same.
That speaks well to Pedowitz's nose for good programming. But it also speaks well to how the network is essentially revamping itself into a TV fan's dream.
The CW exists in a weird space between broadcast, cable, and digital. Though its business strategy is, ostensibly, that of a broadcast network in attempting to appeal to the most viewers possible and attract the most ad dollars it can, it also programs shows that will appeal to narrow but passionate niche audiences, like a cable network would. Even its biggest hits, like The Flash and Arrow, start from a core niche audience (comics fans, in this case) and then count every additional viewer as gravy.

Mark Pedowitz (The CW)
But it also has a strong digital component to its strategy, selling ads so that they'll appear both on shows when they traditionally air and on online streams. Yes, other networks have their own versions of this program, but The CW, with its younger audience, makes this much more of a centerpiece, even just in terms of Pedowitz explaining how his network stays alive economically.
To many who primarily consume TV online or via their DVRs, this sounds like pretty basic stuff. But it's taken other networks far longer to come around to this way of thinking. There was so much money in the old, ad-supported model that it occasionally seems as if the other four networks still hope that model will magically revive itself. Only The CW, backed into a corner by disastrous ratings for so many years, has really embraced that inevitability.
This means that this year, when the network took a big hit on its previously successful Thursdays (thanks to ABC's now-dominant lineup), it had enough improvements on other nights to weather the storm. Even three years ago, such a thing would have been a disaster. Instead, The CW renewed both of its Thursday shows and hoped for better things to come.
Whether all networks are heading toward that future — existing more as brands across a variety of potential viewing platforms — or this is just a Venn diagram intersection The CW is exploiting now that will eventually disappear remains to be seen. But TV fans nowadays thrive on having a variety of options for watching shows, and The CW offers them that.
Well, almost.
By far the most questions at a Pedowitz press conference I attended in January were about Jane the Virgin, the network's telenovela adaptation that landed on scads of critics' top 10 lists and scored a Golden Globe nomination for Best Comedy Series. Yet you wouldn't know the show even existed to look at its ratings, which need to be measured with a microscope.
In some ways, the network's treatment of the show has been, again, in keeping with what TV fans might want. It has remained in its Monday night timeslot (where it actually slightly outperforms what was there last year), and the network gave it an early pickup for a second season back in January (along with seven other shows). Pedowitz is betting that leaving the show where it is will eventually pay off in some sort of viewership, something that fans of other low-rated programs that kept getting yanked around the schedule might have loved to hear.
But Jane also exposes the limits of The CW's streaming strategy, and such things in general. Because of contractual realities, Pedowitz said, "The only way to fully catch up with Jane the Virgin at this time would be through digital rental." That would mean going to iTunes or Amazon and paying a per-episode rate to catch up on the show. Five episodes are available on Hulu, for instance, but those five episodes are the fourth, then the sixth through ninth. That's not exactly conducive to an era when people want to binge shows all at once.
And, yes, The CW is good about getting its programming on Netflix in a timely fashion in the offseason, with a deal that funnels a certain amount of money back into the network's coffers. But it's also impossible to sell advertising on Netflix, and when Jane won the Golden Globe for actress in a comedy, thus attracting lots of attention, there was no easy way to view its first few episodes, short of paying for them, or stumbling upon CW reruns. In an on-demand age, that's not ideal.
Pedowitz is aware of this, but it speaks to the struggles smaller networks like his — and, increasingly, larger networks — face in trying to navigate the new world of television. You can have all the good intentions in the world and a solid stable of programming, but the business strategies of television are still largely built for 1995, and they're evolving more slowly than someone like Pedowitz might like.
ABC's upfront presentation — at which the network tried to sell ad buyers on the virtues of its 2015 fall schedule — is best summarized in two moments.
In the first, late-night host Jimmy Kimmel mocked NBC's decision to produce movies based on the songs of Dolly Parton, which he sarcastically quipped was a great way for the network to court urban audiences. In the second, ABC hauled out Montell Jordan to perform his famous hit "This Is How We Do It," complete with new lyrics written specifically about ABC, while stars from many of the network's shows danced awkwardly on stage.
Update: Video of this blessed event has surfaced. Watch it before ABC becomes aware it exists and banishes all traces of it.

The message was clear: ABC might not be uncool in the same way as other networks, but it's still pretty uncool. If NBC is trying to force the nation to travel back in time to 1981, ABC has at least advanced to the mid-'90s. But it's still stuck there, hoping that awkwardly shoehorning the word Black-ish into a Montell Jordan song will buy it some cachet ... only to realize that, no, it probably won't.
Still, of all networks participating in upfronts week, ABC has more to celebrate than most, and its fall 2015 schedule looks pretty good. If you just want to glance at said schedule, click here. But if you're looking for a deeper analysis of its prospects, here are five thoughts about the network's lineup.
Before Fox's Empire became the big new hit of the 2014-'15 season, ABC's How to Get Away With Murder and Black-ish were the season's success stories. And after spending years in last place, the network posted the most ratings growth out of the big four, which put it in third. That may not sound like much, but it's impressive in the increasingly ossifying world of network television.
ABC renewed eight new freshman shows
The most impressive feat of all, however, is that ABC renewed eight new freshman shows. Yes, it canceled a few, just like every other network, but it's also on a surprisingly strong hot streak, especially when it comes to comedy. Both Black-ish and Fresh Off the Boat launched strong, then held their own, and their DVR and streaming numbers are good. ABC's fall schedule boasts three nights (Monday, Wednesday, and Thursday) that will be exactly the same from fall to fall, in marked contrast to the much less stable NBC and Fox.
ABC also claims to be "number one in entertainment programming." Now, what that means is that the network is number one when you factor out sports (and likely reality shows), which isn't really fair — it's not like sports don't exist. But ABC is hamstrung by a corporate strategy that seems designed to keep sports on ESPN and off of its airwaves (more on this in a moment), so the self-justification makes sense. It's still a little disingenuous.
So many of ABC's programs — and rumored programs — stem from other parts of the Disney corporate family. Once Upon a Time has turned into a Disney princess clearinghouse. Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. and Agent Carter are ways for ABC to lay claim to a tiny sliver of the Marvel universe. And now the network has The Muppets coming in the fall, allowing it to capitalize on yet another set of Disney-owned characters. Pixar produces occasional holiday specials starring the Toy Story characters for the network. Rumors of a Star Wars show have circulated for years — and it seems as if it will happen sooner or later.
ABC seems to accept corporate synergy as taking one for the team
What's been interesting about all of this corporate synergy is that ABC seems to accept it as taking one for the team. The future of television is probably about corporations creating programs whose profits they can maximize, and if that's the case, then ABC suggests that future has already arrived and that it's doing just fine.
The network's Marvel shows, for instance, are not terribly successful when looked at in terms of their live ratings. But add in the viewers who catch up with them later, and they start to look more appealing. Then consider how the shows advance the overall branding mission of ABC's corporate cousin, and you start to see why they're still on the air. It's not that ratings are irrelevant; it's that other qualities can sometimes trump them.
Oh, and the new Muppet show looks pretty funny. So corporate synergy might work out for all of us, in the end.
ABC's "number one in entertainment programming" brag is a dodge, because you'd better believe if the network could get its hands on an NFL package for a cost-effective rate, it would do so. Football is one of the chief things propping up NBC's primetime ratings, and it gives both CBS and Fox a powerful promotional platform. Without it, ABC is always dependent on whatever else it can scrounge up. (Fortunately, the network has one of the best marketing teams in the business.)
Disney appears to have decided that ESPN is where the sports go
This is the biggest drawback of being a part of Disney. Disney appears to have decided that ESPN, which it also owns, is where the sports go, and even though ABC airs a handful of sporting events per season (like college basketball and its limited NBA package), it simply can't compete with its massively successful sibling over on cable. As sports become more and more important to network viewership numbers, ABC could wind up constantly scrambling to lure in every viewer it can find.
ABC's solution appears to be to brand itself as strongly as possible, which has seen some success. But "branding" only works as long as the shows are consistently good, and ABC is bound to hit a cold streak eventually.
ABC President Paul Lee joked before introducing The Muppets that he really does care about bringing diverse representation to his network. But he earned that joke by really, truly caring about bringing diverse representation to his network — or, at the very least, by not shutting out whoever on his executive team is interested in doing so. Lots of networks pay lip service to this idea; ABC appears to actually be doing something about it.
Lots of networks pay lip service to diversity; ABC appears to actually be doing something about it
ABC's new fall series' leads include famed Bollywood actress Priyanka Chopra and Korean-American Ken Jeong. The network has a series about a gay teenager coming up at midseason. It will also add a remake of the old movie Uncle Buck featuring an all-black cast. (Lee, however, doesn't seem to understand the reasons people might cringe about a black character named "Buck," so two steps forward and all that.)
Like every other network, ABC has a long way to go on the diversity front, and some of the shows listed above will probably be awful. (I'm betting on the Ken Jeong–fronted comedy, which looked painful in its trailer.) But at least ABC isn't running away from its successes in this arena last year.
Like Fox, ABC hates reruns. Unlike Fox, it actually invented the strategy that the networks are increasingly glomming onto to carry themselves through rerun season. It airs its big hit shows in two batches of episodes — one fall and one spring — and then airs a short-order series in the gap between the two batches.
If an anthology flops, it's just off the air, with little damage done to the wider schedule
ABC's solution to finding good short-order programs (which has bedeviled it in the past) is increasingly to air anthology miniseries, which tell new stories (sometimes with new casts) with each new season. (Think True Detective, American Horror Story, or Fargo.) That way, if one of them flops, it's just off the air, with very little damage done to the wider schedule. And when one succeeds — like its modest Sunday-night hit Secrets and Lies — it can promote the show's return the next year almost as a new show, because that's what it is.
ABC renewed both of its anthology miniseries, Secrets and Lies and American Crime, for second seasons. It also picked up Of Kings and Prophets, a miniseries about King David (that could presumably adapt other Bible stories if it becomes a hit), and Wicked City, a dark, noirish take on the Los Angeles criminal world. The network has even turned Agent Carter into a pseudo spin on this idea, sending the character into a new setting (Hollywood) for season two.
Of all the broadcast networks, ABC seems most enamored of the idea of this new TV subgenre. Though American Crime's ratings suffered, it will probably land some Emmy nominations, and Secrets and Lies was a modest success, building in the ratings each week. The 2015-'16 season will be where ABC finds out whether it can build on this foundation — or if this is just another stopgap measure that's doomed to fail.
The CW is coming off one of the most successful seasons in its short history. Perhaps that's why the network's fall 2015 schedule is almost exactly the same as its spring 2015 schedule — the only real changes to speak of are the addition of a single new series and a couple of time-slot shifts.
While the network appears to have justifiably decided on the "if it ain't broke, don't fix it" approach for fall, it does plan to debut slightly more new programming in the spring. On tap for midseason is the returning sci-fi series The 100, as well as two new dramas.
The first new drama, DC’s Legends of Tomorrow, is a combined spinoff of The CW's two current DC Comics shows, Arrow and The Flash; it centers on a "time-traveling rogue" named Rip Hunter who's tasked with uniting a disparate group of heroes and villains (including Captain Cold, Heat Wave, the Atom, Firestorm, and more) to confront a mysterious but unstoppable threat. Watch a trailer below:

The second, Containment, chronicles the outbreak of a deadly epidemic in Atlanta, leading to a strict quarantine and forcing those stuck in the city to fight for their lives while local and federal officials desperately search for a cure. And just for good (melodramatic) measure, there might be a government conspiracy in play, too. Watch a trailer below:

Read on to find out what's airing when.
8 to 9 pm – The CW's logline for Crazy Ex-Girlfriend makes no mention of mental illness or a breakup, despite the show's title. Instead, the network describes the new comedy as "the story of an unhappy lawyer who quits her job and moves across the country in search of love, with her inner monologue providing irreverent musical interludes." What it doesn't say is that she basically moves across the country to follow a guy she used to date, even though she won't admit as much. Anyway, will the promised musical interludes be as delightful as the voiceover narration on Crazy Ex-Girlfriend's Monday-night neighbor Jane the Virgin? Watch a trailer below and judge for yourself:

9 to 10 pm – Jane the Virgin
8 to 9 pm – The Flash
9 to 10 pm – iZombie
8 to 9 pm – Arrow
9 to 10 pm – Supernatural
8 to 9 pm – The Vampire Diaries
9 to 10 pm – The Originals
8 to 9 pm – Reign
9 to 10 pm – America's Next Top Model
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and foreign policy writer Amanda Taub. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Todd VanDerWerff: What's interesting to me about the Betty plot is the way it returns to a motif Mad Men has turned to again and again: cancer. So far, the wife of Don's namesake and Don's first-season lover have both died of the disease, with his ex-wife about to as well. Something about this disease is significant to Matthew Weiner — beyond just the fact that it's a disease that kills so many of us.
The notable thing here, I think, is that the cancer seems somehow attached to Don. That, to me, is indicative, in some ways, of how Don worries he's perceived by the world — as an aggressive, invasive disease that doesn't belong in its host. Don has managed to fool everybody into thinking he's the man he projects himself to be, but deep down (as we saw in that dream sequence), he's sure he'll be found out and caught. He's a malignant cell that the upper-crust world he's made himself a part of needs to root out if it means to survive.
Of course, we know that's not true. We've talked a lot about Mad Men in terms of feminism over the course of this season (and series, honestly), but one of the things that doesn't get talked about nearly as much is the story as one about the American class system. To become part of the ruling class, Don had to assume the identity of a dead man. He had to become a new person — literally. The only way to climb the American class ladder, it would seem, is through murder, trickery, fraud, or dumb luck.
Mad Men openly presents the American class system as one primarily about presenting certain appearances to the world. That makes sense for a show about advertising, about people who sell the idea of looking like something you're not. But all of that falls apart when it comes up against somebody's core insecurities. Don's problem has always been that by trying to outrun his Dick Whitman–esque roots, he's been bringing that part of his life closer and closer to the surface. He will be found out, because he's still himself.
So maybe there's something to be gleaned here from the one plot line we haven't talked about — that reconciliation between Pete and Trudy. At first, I didn't buy this. Even if I liked Pete and Trudy together back in the day, it seemed unlikely she would ever forgive him. But she did, and it was because of something Don has in short supply: honesty.
When we first met Pete Campbell, he was a sniveling weasel of a man who wanted what he couldn't have. And he's still pretty much that, but he's gained these tiny kernels of wisdom along the way. When he tells his brother that cheating on his wife will be fun for a while until it's not, it's with the voice of somebody who knows.
Pete has always been a kind of shadow Don, a version of the man who doesn't really know how to project the cool confidence that carried Don so far. But maybe that's a good thing? Maybe Pete's naked ambition and occasionally horrifying ass-kissing are preferable precisely because they're weirdly authentic and sincere. Pete doesn't need to worry about where he came from, because the world he came from has its name emblazoned all over the city.
Don is all confidence, because he knows that, deep down, he doesn't belong. Pete is no confidence, because he's never needed it. We like Don more, because we're supposed to like Don more. But something about Pete's naked need to be loved and win others' approval manages to get him in doors that Don could never even open. Imagine Don trying to win back Betty a couple of years after they were divorced. Even setting aside her second husband, it would be hard to imagine. Too much water under that bridge.
Pete, however, is somehow able to nullify that water, because he's able, on some level, to be genuine. Don constructs the appearance of sincerity, and that's been enough to buy his way into the upper class. But it's not enough to completely obscure the fact that he's, ultimately, a cell endlessly attacking the host.
Read the recap, and come back tomorrow for more thoughts.
Previous entry
Next: Libby returns to the beginning
Like this video? Subscribe to Vox on YouTube.
CBS is huge. It might not be the number-one network on TV right now, but it's almost impossible to imagine it ever slipping to number three. It doesn't air many shows TV fans on the internet get too excited about — save for The Good Wife — but it doesn't have to. CBS has everybody else on lockdown.
That could make for a boring story, but the flip side of CBS's dominance is that the network always seems a little angry about how it gets too little respect. During both an early morning press conference announcing its 2015 fall schedule and its later upfront presentation designed to sell advertisers on said schedule, president and CEO of CBS Corporation Les Moonves discussed at length the prevalent "myths" he believes exist about CBS, like the idea that it's only a network for old people or that it's dominated by older shows and has trouble launching new hits.
In the case of the latter, CBS had a very good 2014-'15 season, renewing five freshman series (though some of them are merely time slot hits — shows that succeed because they air after a hit program). But in the case of the former, CBS's constant strategy of producing shows that attract lots and lots of viewers — at least some of whom will be young — is essentially what will always keep it out of the media spotlight. Making shows your parents watch is profitable, but stability isn't exactly sexy.
If you want to see CBS's fall schedule and new-show trailers, check those out here. Otherwise, here are five thoughts on what the network is up to.
There is essentially nothing CBS could do to lose the viewership trophy in the 2015-'16 TV season. It already wins among all viewers, and though CBS relinquished the crown for young viewers (ages 18 to 49) in 2014-'15, losing it to NBC by a margin of just 124,000 viewers, that was with NBC having the Super Bowl. As Moonves pointed out, CBS has the Super Bowl in 2016. Thus, it would take a catastrophe for the network to not be an easy number one in both categories.
And catastrophe is just what the CBS schedule is built to avoid. The network rarely makes huge changes to what it does, perfectly content to rely on sure-bet programming while moving around little things here and there. Indeed, its 2015-'16 fall lineup features the biggest changes to a CBS fall lineup in quite a while. Only the network's Friday nights are completely intact — and the new schedule still pretty much feels like the 2014-'15 schedule, at least at first glance. CBS is very no muss, no fuss.
it would take a catastrophe for CBS to not be the number-one network for the 2015-'16 TV season
For the most part, CBS's aim seems to be to figure out what to do with its 10 pm hours, which it's changing up on Tuesdays and Wednesdays. (Person of Interest, the current Tuesday occupant and the network's best current show, is headed to midseason, while CSI: Cyber, the Wednesday occupant, is shifting to Sundays.) The network is also rearranging its Thursday comedy lineup, taking a chance on Mom at 9 pm, where the (very good) sitcom will hopefully succeed.
In short, CBS is strong and stable. But if you inspect its schedule closely enough, you'll find it's also making some interesting — and substantial — changes.
The biggest modification is the complete abandonment of Monday-night comedy, a tradition on the network since the 1949-'50 TV season (yes, you read that correctly). The last time CBS didn't air at least one comedy on Monday night was the 1948-'49 season, which was mostly dominated by local programming anyway.
The last time CBS didn't air at least one comedy on Monday was the 1948-'49 season
CBS eliminated its 9 pm Monday comedy block — which had existed in its "two comedies over one hour" form since the 1950s — at the start of the 2014-'15 season, to make room for the action drama Scorpion. And as of November 2015, the 8 pm block (which has existed since Scarecrow and Mrs. King aired there during the 1985-'86 season, 30 years ago) will be gone as well, replaced by the network's new Supergirl series.
In and of itself, there's nothing particularly remarkable about this. CBS still broadcasts a full evening of comedy on Thursdays, and it has a bunch of new comedies waiting in the wings, in case anything absolutely tanks this fall. But the network owes its current success to crime dramas, and that makes it difficult for new comedies to jockey for airtime.
Monday — a traditionally successful night for the network and a lower-pressure night than Thursday, where networks try to air their strongest programming — was always there for any CBS comedy in need of a tryout. Now it won't be, and that's too bad, if only because watching long-running TV traditions end is never fun.
In the summer of 2014, I suggested that CBS was the Los Angeles Lakers of networks — filled with old, expensive players who, nonetheless, still performed so well that the network couldn't cut them.
CBS is now a young network, Moonves insisted
Moonves was adamant during the aforementioned press conference that this is no longer the case. CBS is now a young network, he insisted, having renewed five first-season shows and trimmed older series like the original CSI to make room for the five new shows that pepper its fall schedule.
That's all well and good, but the network is still heavily reliant on the NCIS franchise, Survivor, and Criminal Minds, all of which are old — and in some cases, downright elderly —  in TV terms. Moonves pointed out that if you look at total viewership, NCIS: New Orleans was the top new show of the 2014-'15 season, not Empire, but advertisers care less about total viewership than they do about young viewership, where NCIS: New Orleans fares considerably worse. Plus NCIS: New Orleans does well because it's on after its parent show. Is there any way it could achieve raging success elsewhere on the schedule? NCIS: Los Angeles certainly hasn't since moving to Mondays.
The problem with being CBS is that the core CBS audience is so big, it's hard to ignore. But it also trends older than other networks' audiences, and it likes what it likes, which is cop dramas and detective shows. When the network trends away from that (as with the various medical dramas it has tried to launch since the mid-2000s), it struggles. The 2015-'16 schedule is filled with attempts to not broadcast more cop dramas — and it might be as successful as the last time CBS tried this approach, in the fall of 2007. (Hint: CBS did not do very well that season.)
There is literally no reason for the network to greenlight a TV version of that 2011 Bradley Cooper movie Limitless, which was a minor hit at the box office, but come on, do you recall anything about it?
CBS also has a TV version of Rush Hour queued up for midseason, which is a slightly better idea than a Limitless series, but only just. It isn't quite on the same level of strange decision-making as NBC ordering a sequel to Coach, but it's close.
Of course, all bets are off if Limitless becomes a massive hit, as it very well could, given its plum time slot and catchy premise.
But CBS owns the entirety of the Paramount television library. If it really wants to produce something with a recognizable name (and keep current CSI and future CSI: Cyber star Ted Danson on the company payroll), maybe it should just bring back Cheers. (That's a horrible idea, CBS. Do not bring back Cheers.)
Why else would the network be launching a superhero show (Supergirl) that aims to blend the genre with something straight out of a generic romantic comedy, circa 1995?
And why else would it sidestep its typical sitcom formula with its two new comedies, a structurally ambitious show that tells four short stories per episode and a high-concept show where Jane Lynch plays a bad-mannered guardian angel?
CBS doesn't just want to be the number-one network. It wants to be beloved by all.
Similarly, why would it make these shows more cinematic in presentation, instead of more stage-like? CBS has enjoyed much more success with the latter — particularly with current champion The Big Bang Theory — but it keeps trying to break its own mold.
CBS's problem has always been that it doesn't just want to be the number-one network. It wants to be beloved by all. But in trying to do so, it can't help but feel like it's trying just a little too hard.
The fact of the matter is that CBS has a lot of solid-to-really good shows. Even its worst programs rarely scrape the bottom of the barrel, because it has a wheelhouse, and it knows exactly how to stay within that wheelhouse. But that approach isn't very exciting, so the network keeps trying to break out of that zone, with occasionally disastrous results.
Every so often, CBS convinces itself that it needs to be the coolest kid on the block, and it ends up feeling like your parents trying to repeat pop culture catchphrases they only half understand. For better or worse, 2015 feels like one of those years.
Every week, three of Vox's writers will discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, deputy culture editor Jen Trolio is joined by executive editor Matthew Yglesias and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Andrew Prokop: Jen, greyscale is one of the increasing number of topics about which those who've read George R. R. Martin's books don't know much more than those who haven't. It could be hugely important going forward, or its main purpose on the show could just be to make Jorah Mormont miserable.
But while I share your concerns that an increased focus on magical monsters could eventually overshadow the more interesting political scheming, I think "Kill the Boy" did a great job of drilling into the challenges of ruling — particularly for Jon Snow and Daenerys Targaryen, as they both resolved to try to broker peace.
Dany wants to heal the wounds of Meereen, which is divided between freed slaves and former masters seeking to regain power. Similarly, Jon wants to end the distrust between the wildlings and the Night's Watch. Both have pragmatic reasons for what they're doing — Dany can't hope to stay in power for long if violence in Meereen remains so high, and Jon argues that dead wildlings north of the Wall will only strengthen the White Walkers' army.
even sympathetic characters like Ned and Tyrion didn't act primarily for the good of the common people
However, both Jon and Dany are motivated, primarily, by trying to do the right thing for a group of disadvantaged people — the wildlings for Jon, and the former slaves for Dany. Their virtuous ambitions actually mark a bit of a shift from previous seasons, when you think about it. Whether it was the Starks, the Baratheons, or the Lannisters, everyone seemed myopically focused on quarrels that really only affected a few noble families. Thoughts about helping the people they ruled were few and far between — even for sympathetic characters.
Take Ned Stark. When he was Hand of the King in season one, he was doing perfectly reasonable-seeming things — trying to solve the murder of the previous Hand and, eventually, exposing the truth of Prince Joffrey's parentage. Yet these matters were really only important to a few noble families — Westeros and its people were basically doing fine back then. It was the ensuing war to try to depose Joffrey that devastated the continent and killed thousands.
Jon and Dany are genuinely trying to put the interests of disadvantaged people before their own
Stannis Baratheon, as he frequently reminded us, was obsessed with the fact that the Iron Throne was his "by right," with little regard for the innocent people who would have to die for him to secure this right. Tyrion Lannister, too, was perfectly decent during his tenure as Hand — but his formidable talents and intellect were mainly devoted to keeping himself, his family, and the monstrous Joffrey in power.
Then there was Robb Stark, who raised an army to free his father before eventually tacking on a new cause of independence for the North. But it's not as if the Iron Throne were oppressing the North's people. Indeed, Robb's risky decision to go to war actually opened the doors to such oppression, giving the awful Boltons — known for flaying the skin off people who don't pay their taxes — a chance to seize power.
So the approach that Jon and Dany are taking, and the challenges they're facing, are truly unusual for Game of Thrones — as they were in A Dance with Dragons, a book that many readers found frustrating, but that I viewed as fascinating. Rather than just fighting for honor or decency like Ned or Robb, Jon and Dany were genuinely trying to put the interests of less fortunate people before their own.
And they're learning that ruling this way is incredibly difficult. When Jon announced his plan to let the wildlings pass south of the Wall, he was met with an enormous backlash from some of his closest Night's Watch allies, who've had people close to them murdered by the wildlings. Dany, meanwhile, has had the slaveholding families she deposed strike back brutally against her and her allies.
For now, though, they're pressing onward with peacemaking. Jon has decided to risk his own life by traveling north with Tormund Giantsbane to retrieve the wildling refugees, while Dany — after indulging herself by torching one former slavemaster with dragonfire — is planning to marry a Meereenese noble to unite the city.
But many obstacles lie ahead for them. And Game of Thrones hasn't been kind to idealists so far.
Read the recap. Come back for Matt's thoughts soon.
Previous entry

Facebook has a problem, or thinks it does: reading news stories from Facebook's mobile app doesn't work very well. The company says the average news article takes eight seconds to launch — time in which a bored mobile user might give up and open another application altogether.
Facebook wants to change that. So today the company announced a new partnership with some of the nation's most prestigious publications, including the New York Times, National Geographic, and the Atlantic, where Facebook will actively host entire articles on behalf of news organizations.
Facebook's hope is that this will drastically improve article loading times, particularly on mobile devices. The company is also offering ways for publishers to improve the display of images and video.
But even as major news organizations participate in the partnership, journalists are worried that the deal will give Facebook too much power over the news business. Fusion's Felix Salmon, for example, wrote in March that if news organizations signed up with Facebook, they risked "losing most of the things which make [a] news brand memorable and unique."
The main thing users will notice — if they notice anything at all — is that articles from certain media organizations start loading more quickly than they did before.
In the past, when a Facebook user on a smartphone clicked on a link to a news story, it would open a separate browser window and begin downloading an entire webpage. In the new model, publishers upload copies of their articles to Facebook so they can be hosted on Facebook's servers. This allows Facebook to optimize how the articles are delivered to Facebook.
Facebook hasn't provided a lot of details on the technology behind the product, but what looks to be happening is Facebook is pre-loading the article's content so that it's already on the device when a user clicks a link. Right now, Instant Articles are only available for iOS, but an Android version is expected soon.
The resulting speed increase is dramatic:

Compare and contrast: Facebook instant articles vs Twitter link pic.twitter.com/IlNCg68fYw


But aside from this speed increase, users probably won't notice much difference. Facebook is touting several other features, such as the ability to zoom in on images and autoplay videos, but it's not clear how often publishers will take advantage of these features.


(Mario Tama/Getty Images)

Publishers have grown dependent on traffic from Facebook, and Facebook has a lot of discretion to decide which content is featured in its users' news feed. This fact gives Facebook a lot of leverage. Some publishers fear that if they don't participate, Facebook will point its firehose of traffic in the direction of more pliant competitors.
At the same time, the program offers some benefits for publishers as well. Faster loading times are good for publishers as much as they are for Facebook. And joining Instant Articles gives publishers access to Facebook's powerful advertising program. Facebook knows a lot about its users, and this data allows them to target ads at users who are most likely to be interested in them. That's good for advertisers, who are able to get a bigger impact from fewer ads.
Facebook-hosted articles can have Facebook-hosted ads next to them, and Facebook will give publishers 70 percent of the revenue generated with these Facebook ads. If Facebook's ad platform is good enough, publishers may find that 70 percent of the money from a Facebook ad is worth more than 100 percent of an ad they sell themselves.
Facebook made a few other concessions to coax publishers to get on board. First, publishers retain the right to place their own ads next to the content, and according to reports, they'll keep 100 percent of the revenues from these ads — at least for now. Facebook will also allow publishers to independently measure traffic to Instant Articles using third-party tools such as Google Analytics and Omniture.
Finally, publishers retain substantial control over the branding of Instant Articles. A New York Times article will have a prominent New York Times logo at the top, making clear to readers that they're reading a Times story, not a generic Facebook news story.


Facebook Chief Product Officer Chris Cox. (Ian Kennedy)

A number of journalists worry that the deal will give Facebook too much power over the news business. Here's how Felix Salmon put it in March:
It’s about losing control over exactly how your content is presented and delivered — about losing most of the things which make your news brand memorable and unique. At some point, it’s easy to foresee a world where talented individuals, rather than brands, make a good living by producing the kind of news content which "works really well" on Facebook. If Facebook becomes the new YouTube in that respect, and if Facebook continues to grow as a trusted news source in its own right, then the result could be an existential crisis for news organizations with old-fashioned things like editors and fact-checkers and clear ethical guidelines.
Skeptics believe that news organizations need the kind of control they get from running their own website. In their view, running their own websites fosters a stronger bond between readers and publishers and gives publishers more opportunity to innovate.
They also worry that the relatively favorable terms of Facebook's current deal with publishers won't last. They worry that Facebook could start taking a greater cut of ad revenue, limit news organizations' control over how their content is presented, and limit their access to data about their users' online activities.
As David Carr put it last year: "Many publishers are worried that what has been a listening tour could become a telling tour, in which Facebook dictates terms because it drives so much traffic."
Worst of all, they worry that Facebook will use the leverage provided by its huge audience to coerce the rest of the news industry into joining Facebook's platform. Now that nine prestigious publishers have agreed to join the platform, Facebook could direct more traffic to them and less traffic to the rest of the news industry. That would create tremendous pressure on those other publishers to join up.


Users come to Facebook for this kind of thing more than for news. (sabianmaggy)

It's too early to say, but I'm skeptical.
If you're worried about Facebook having too much power over the news business, then your beef is with user behavior in general, not Instant Articles in particular. The reason Facebook generates so much traffic for news organizations is because users spend a huge amount of time on the site.
And reading news is a small fraction of people's Facebook time. People mostly use Facebook to look at pictures of their grandchildren, share photos of their friends' weddings, and swap gossip about life in their hometowns. Facebook would continue to be a very popular website even if it had zero news content.
So it's not obvious how much publisher participation in Instant Articles increases Facebook's power. Facebook had a lot of power over the news industry last week, and it would have continued having that power even if no publishers had signed up for Facebook-hosted news.
And crucially, these content deals are non-exclusive. Facebook users on iPhones will see a special, Facebook-optimized version of New York Times articles. For everyone else, the Times website will work exactly the same way it did before. And that's unlikely to change, because while Facebook generates a lot of traffic, most of the news industry's traffic still comes from elsewhere on the web.
This means that news organizations retain a fair amount of leverage. If Facebook tried to drastically alter the terms of the deal, the news organizations can quit the program and take their content with them. They'd face some costs for this — slower load times and the loss of access to Facebook's lucrative ad platform — but that's just another way of saying they'd be back where they were before they signed up for the program.
The web is maturing. The early days of any new communications media tends to be a free-for-all, with a lot of small publishers or broadcasters experimenting with the new technologies and building up modest audiences.
But then there's usually a period of consolidation, when a few channels gain a disproportionate share of the traffic. In the 20th century, the television business became dominated by ABC, CBS, and NBC. Most cities became dominated by one or two newspapers. A few magazines like Time and Newsweek dominated the weekly news business.
These new platforms still give users a lot more control than the old ones
Something similar seems to be happening on the web. Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube are emerging as the ABC, CBS, and NBC of the 21st century — sites that attract vastly more traffic than most others.
But the web has two big things going for it. First, these new platforms still give users a lot more control than the old ones did. In 1970, everyone had to choose from the same 3 TV shows. Today, Facebook does a pretty good job of letting you pick what content you're interested in, and Twitter gives power users even more control over the content they choose.
Second, while a few sites are a lot more popular than the rest, there are still a lot of options out there. You can find news using Reddit or Digg or Pinterest or dozens of other sites. And while Facebook has a huge head start, barriers to entry are still pretty low. If Facebook stops serving its users well, someone else might take its place.
The case of original-flavor CSI is officially closed: CBS has unveiled its fall 2015 schedule, and one of its first orders of business will be to wrap up the long-running crime procedural with a two-hour series finale on Sunday, September 27. Many of the show's original cast members are expected to return for the occasion. After the finale, current star Ted Danson, who joined the series in 2011, will make the leap to the franchise's newest (and only surviving) branch, CSI: Cyber.

Elsewhere in CBS's lineup, only a few other changes are afoot, one of which is to phase out comedy from Monday nights. The network is dipping its toe into the superpowered waters of comic-book-based TV with new drama Supergirl, which will lead off the workweek on Mondays at 8 pm beginning in November. Other new series include a comedy starring Jane Lynch and an adaptation of the Bradley Cooper film Limitless, which Cooper will executive-produce and recur on as a guest star.

In late night, Stephen Colbert will begin his tenure on Late Show on Tuesday, September 8.
Sitting on the bench for fall are Person of Interest, 2 Broke Girls, Mike & Molly, The Odd Couple, and Undercover Boss, all of which will return in early 2016 alongside new shows that include a Criminal Minds spinoff and a reimagining of the Rush Hour feature film franchise.
Read on to find out what's airing when, and to watch trailers for CBS's new shows.
(September and October)
8 to 8:30 pm — The Big Bang Theory
8:30 to 9 pm — Life in Pieces is a new comedy the network is billing as "one big happy family and their sometimes awkward, often hilarious, and ultimately beautiful milestone moments as told by its various members." Each episode will contain four short stories, and the series' ensemble cast boasts Dianne Wiest, James Brolin, Colin Hanks, Betsy Brandt (Breaking Bad), Thomas Sadoski (The Newsroom), Dan Bakkedahl (Veep), and Zoe Lister Jones (New Girl). Think Parenthood but with more jokes. Watch a trailer below:

9 to 10 pm — Scorpion
10 to 11 pm — NCIS: Los Angeles
(November)
8 to 9 pm — It's a bird, it's a plane, it's a superhero show on CBS! New drama Supergirl is based on the DC Comics character and cousin to Superman, Kara Zor-El (Glee's Melissa Benoist), who, after 12 years keeping her powers a secret on Earth, decides to finally embrace her special abilities and become the hero she was always meant to be. The series is executive-produced by Greg Berlanti, who also executive-produces The Flash and Arrow on CBS's sister network The CW. Watch a trailer below:

9 to 10 pm — Scorpion
10 to 11 pm — NCIS: Los Angeles
8 to 9 pm — NCIS
9 to 10 pm — NCIS: New Orleans
10 to 11 pm — New drama Limitless is based on the 2011 movie about a man who discovers the brain-boosting power of a mysterious drug and is coerced by the FBI into using his extraordinary cognitive abilities to solve complex cases. Jake McDorman, Jennifer Carpenter (Dexter), Hill Harper, and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio star, with executive producer and original film star Bradley Cooper occasionally dropping by as a guest. Watch a trailer below:

8 to 9 pm — Survivor
9 to 10 pm — Criminal Minds
10 to 11 pm — New scripted medical drama Code Black is based on a documentary of the same name and set in the one of the country's busiest ERs, which for television purposes is home to all the usual medical-drama suspects, including world-renowned physicians, rookie residents, a seen-it-all nurse, and at least one doc who's known for a "cowboy" approach. Marcia Gay Harden stars. Watch a trailer below:

(September and October)
8 to 11 pm — Thursday Night Football
(November)
8 to 8:30 pm — The Big Bang Theory
8:30 to 9 pm — Life in Pieces
9 to 9:30 pm — Mom
9:30 to 10 pm — Angel From Hell stars Jane Lynch as Amy, the titular "angel" who proclaims to be the guardian of a young, ambitious doctor named Allison (Maggie Lawson). You can probably guess how the premise unfolds: Amy shows up unexpectedly in Allison's life spouting so-called wisdom, Allison assumes Amy is a nutjob, and then all of Amy's predictions/warnings come true. It's a tried-and-true "unlikely partnership" story with a dash of feel-good spirituality. Watch trailer below:

10 to 11 pm — Elementary
8 to 9 pm — The Amazing Race
9 to 10 pm — Hawaii Five-0
10 to 11 pm — Blue Bloods
8 to 10 pm — reruns
10 to 11 pm — 48 Hours Mystery
7 to 8 pm — 60 Minutes
8 to 9 pm — Madam Secretary
9 to 10 pm — The Good Wife
10 to 11 pm — CSI: Cyber
Ah, May — a month known for its post-April-showers blooms, warming temperatures, and, in the TV world, an annual spate of series renewals and cancellations as the broadcast networks set their new programming lineups for the fall. Below, we've compiled a comprehensive list of which recent shows will return to the airwaves for the 2015-'16 TV season, and which ones have been felled by the mighty ax of cancellation.

Most of this year's verdicts have been returned as expected. For example, few industry insiders anticipated renewals for the freshly cut down Backstrom or Marry Me, both of which performed terribly in the ratings. Likewise, even though both critics and fans liked The Mindy Project well enough and the show ended its third season on a cliffhanger, anyone who'd glanced at its numbers could have successfully predicted its demise.
In the end, TV shows are part of the same Circle of Life we once learned about in Disney's The Lion King, and sometimes their place on the path unwinding — no matter how many fan campaigns are launched to save them — is six feet under.
A to Z (NBC)
About a Boy (NBC)
Allegiance (NBC)
American Idol (Fox) – The show will end after season 15, which will air in early 2016.
Backstrom (Fox)
Bad Judge (NBC)
Battle Creek (CBS)
Constantine (NBC)
Cristela (ABC)
CSI (CBS) – The stalwart procedural will wrap up its 15-season run with a two-hour TV movie on Sunday, September 27.
The Following (Fox)
Forever (ABC)
Gang Related (Fox)
Glee (Fox)
Gracepoint (Fox)
Hart of Dixie (The CW)
Kitchen Nightmares (Fox)
Manhattan Love Story (ABC)
Marry Me (NBC)
The McCarthys (CBS)
The Mentalist (CBS)
The Messengers (The CW)
The Millers (CBS)
The Mindy Project (Fox) – However, the show will live on at Hulu, which has ordered a 26-episode fourth season.
Mulaney (Fox)
One Big Happy (NBC)
Parenthood (NBC)
Parks and Recreation (NBC)
Reckless (CBS)
Red Band Society (Fox)
Resurrection (ABC)
Revenge (ABC)
Selfie (ABC)
Stalker (CBS)
State of Affairs (NBC)
The Taste (ABC)
Two and a Half Men (CBS)
Unforgettable (CBS) – However, the show is slated to return for a fourth season on A&E.
Utopia (Fox)
Weird Loners (Fox)
The Big Bang Theory is guaranteed to remain on the air through the 2016-'17 TV season.
CBS
2 Broke Girls (CBS)
48 Hours (CBS)
60 Minutes (CBS)
The 100 (The CW)
The Amazing Race (CBS)
America's Funniest Home Videos (ABC)
America's Next Top Model (The CW)
American Crime (ABC)
Arrow (The CW)
The Bachelor (ABC)
Big Brother (CBS) — season 17 premieres June 24, and the show has already been renewed for season 18.
The Blacklist (NBC)
Beauty and the Beast (The CW) — season three premieres June 11, and the show has already been renewed for season four.
The Big Bang Theory (CBS) — in March 2014, the show was renewed for three seasons at once, ensuring it will remain on the air at least through the 2016-'17 TV season. Season nine will debut in fall 2015.
The Biggest Loser (NBC)
Black-ish (ABC)
Blue Bloods (CBS)
Bob's Burgers (Fox)
Bones (Fox)
Brooklyn Nine-Nine (Fox)
Castle (ABC)
The Celebrity Apprentice (NBC)
Chicago Fire (NBC)
Chicago P.D. (NBC)
CSI: Cyber (CBS)
Criminal Minds (CBS)
Dancing with the Stars (ABC)
Elementary (CBS)
Empire (Fox)
Extreme Weight Loss (ABC)
Family Guy (Fox)
The Flash (The CW)
Fresh Off the Boat (ABC)
Galavant (ABC)
The Goldbergs (ABC)
The Good Wife (CBS)
Gotham (Fox)
Grimm (NBC)
Grey's Anatomy (ABC)
Hannibal (NBC) — season three debuts June 4.
Hawaii Five-0 (CBS)
Hell's Kitchen (Fox)
Hollywood Game Night (NBC)
How to Get Away With Murder (ABC)
iZombie (The CW)
Jane the Virgin (The CW)
Law & Order: SVU (NBC)
Madam Secretary (CBS)
Marvel's Agent Carter (ABC)
Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. (ABC)
MasterChef (Fox) — season six premieres May 20.
MasterChef Junior (Fox)
The Middle (ABC)
Mike & Molly (CBS)
Mom (CBS)
Modern Family (ABC)
The Mysteries of Laura (NBC)
Nashville (ABC)
NCIS (CBS)
NCIS: Los Angeles (CBS)
NCIS: New Orleans (CBS)
New Girl (Fox)
The Night Shift (NBC)
The Last Man on Earth (Fox)
Last Man Standing (ABC)
The Odd Couple (CBS)
Once Upon a Time (ABC)
The Originals (The CW)
Person of Interest (CBS)
Reign (The CW)
Scandal (ABC)
Scorpion (CBS)
Secrets and Lies (ABC)
Shark Tank (ABC)
The Simpsons (Fox) — season 27 debuts in September 2015, and the show is already renewed for season 28, as well.
Sleepy Hollow (Fox)
So You Think You Can Dance (Fox) — season 12 premieres June 1.
Supernatural (The CW)
Survivor (CBS)
Undateable (NBC)
Undercover Boss (CBS)
The Vampire Diaries (The CW)
The Voice (NBC)
World's Funniest Fails (Fox) – However, the show is dropping the "Fails" from its title for season two, presumably so it can feature other funniest things, America's Funniest Home Videos-style.
A.D. The Bible Continues (NBC)
American Odyssey (NBC)
Like this video? Subscribe to Vox on YouTube.
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and foreign policy writer Amanda Taub. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Amanda Taub: Libby, I'm so glad that you were also taken with this Betty storyline.
Betty has always been one of my favorite characters on Mad Men, in part because the show managed to make the audience's frustrations with Betty as a character mirror Betty's frustrations with the limitations of her life. There were reliable yowls every time Betty got a major storyline. Why was the audience being forced to spend time in the suburbs with her, when more important, interesting, and glamorous things were happening in the city? But Betty, of course, often seemed to be asking herself the same thing. She was sophisticated, educated, and glamorous — why had all that left her in a supporting role while the "real" drama played out without her?
It's undeniable that Betty's frustration often took unpleasant forms. She snapped at her children and manipulated her friends. She's deeply flawed, just like everyone else on this show. But her character's response to dying is, in many ways, an extraordinary example of grace.
After she hears the news, her first thoughts go to her children: how to keep this information from them for now, and how to tell them when she has to. She isn't desperate for a few extra months; she is focused on what she can do with the time she has left, and what that time will be like for the people she loves. Henry uncharitably suggests that her refusal to accept treatment might be because of vanity, but the episode makes clear that Betty instinctively understands that when time is short, the quality of it matters more than the quantity.
Henry doesn't realize that. His response is to try to desperately try to fix the situation. The scene in the car as he runs through his political connections is sad, but also familiar. That kind of magical thinking (how is the governor going to fix Betty's lung cancer?) is hardly unique to Henry Francis. But it's particularly sad in Henry's case, because it suddenly shows the hollowness of the way he has lived his life. He has put his faith in a system of powerful men, only to discover that when he has a true crisis, it's not something that calling "Rocky's office" can fix. He ends up turning to a teenage girl instead, begging Sally to intercede with Betty on his behalf.
But Betty hasn't put her faith in anything but herself for a long time. In previous episodes, that often seemed like selfishness, but now it's a strength. That becomes clearer in her scene with Sally. When Sally lashes out, accusing her mother of refusing treatment because "you love the tragedy," Betty doesn't get defensive. Yes, Betty agrees, with treatment she could have as much as a year. But what would that year be like? "I watched my mother die. I won't do that to you."
Betty's not a quitter — she just knows when she's been beaten. "I've fought for plenty in my life. That's how I know when it's over. It's not a weakness. it's been a gift to me, to know when to move on."
Her letter to Sally shows the same grace.  While its details may seem petty — the blue dress, the lipstick, how to do her hair — those demands are really a gift, because they give Sally a final opportunity to please her mother. Anyone who has lost someone close to them knows how valuable that is. What wouldn't we give to have a chance to do one more nice thing for the people who are no longer with us?
No one we love ever dies the way we want them to. The best we can hope for is that they will show us what we can do to help them in their final moments, and leave us final reassurance of their love. Betty did that perfectly for her daughter.
"I always worried about you, because you march to the beat of your own drum. But now I know that's good, because your life will always be an adventure. I love you. Mom."
Read the recap, and come back tomorrow for more thoughts from Libby and Todd.
Previous entry
Next: Todd praises Pete for some reason
For a certain generation, the most iconic detectives in history aren't Sherlock Holmes and Watson — they're Kate Monday and George Frankly.
From 1987 to 1992, a segment called "Mathnet" was the best reason to watch PBS's math program Square One. It had amazing jokes, incredible acting, and, if there was time, even a little mathematics.
"The names have been made up, but the problems are real"
The only problem is that most of the show's viewers were too young to realize just how amazing it was. Fortunately, now we're all old enough to uncover the backstage drama (like why Pat Tuesday replaced Kate Monday), comprehend the amazing references, and discover which show may have put "Mathnet" off the air.
As you uncover these "Mathnet" mysteries, try to be guided by the show's famous motto: "To cogitate and to solve."

A recreation of the "Mathnet" logo. (TLJohn12)
"Mathnet" debuted as a part of Square One 1987, which was Children's Television Workshop's (CTW) attempt to make math fun for kids. Square One included skits, lessons, and even raps about math. "Mathnet" closed out the show with a single-camera-style mystery in the style of Dragnet, but with absurd humor and simple math lessons woven into the plot.

For example, in "The Case of the Willing Parrot," the intrepid detectives chased after a silent film star's fortune. Using the Fibonacci sequence, they decoded the pattern of tiles outside Fatty's home to figure out where his fortune was hidden. The key to a safe deposit box was hidden behind the tile that broke the pattern.
The show's pedigree didn't shield "Mathnet" from criticism. After seeing the show in 1987, one critic snarked that "there is virtually no math in 'Mathnet.'" It was true that there weren't a lot of calculations, but executive producer David Connell fiercely defended the show, saying that "closer to the heart of math is the ability to think and solve problems."
It's obvious that "Mathnet" references the classic TV and radio show Dragnet. Monday and Frankly were mathematicians who used math to solve minor crimes for helpless kids and old ladies. It was funny enough when Joe Friday was rewritten as Kate Monday and, later, Pat Tuesday, but the references didn't stop there.
First, the show always began with a monotone opening:
The story you are about to see is a fib, but it's short. The names have been made up, but the problems are real.
That was followed by the lead detective's voiceover, which, depending on the season, was some variation of this staccato monologue:
My partner is George Frankly. My boss is Thad Green. Head of our computer division is Debbie Williams. My name is Monday, I'm a mathematician.
Monday and Tuesday were competent and serious while George was the punchline. Together, they managed to use basic arithmetic, geometry, and simple algebra to solve crimes.
The Dragnet style didn't stop with obvious references to the original series. This snippet of dialogue from the pilot episode includes a joke, but it also features the distinctive ping-pong dialogue style of Dragnet:
Monday: We've got a problem, George. Baseball.
Frankly: I love baseball, Kate. Martha and I, we went to Dodgers stadium just last night, Kate.
Monday: The Dodgers played in Cincinnati last night, George.
Frankly: Yeah, no trouble parking. You wanna go with us, Martha and me, to a Dodger game, Kate, no trouble parking.
In case you weren't counting, the main characters said each other's names five times. Joe Friday would be proud.
The Dragnet homages were abundant, but they weren't the only Easter eggs in "Mathnet." Old Hollywood got references, too. As Michael J. Hayde notes in his history of Dragnet, "Mathnet" loved to name-check classic movies and TV.
Character names included Archie Leach (Cary Grant's real name), Benny Pill (a reference to Benny Hill), and a silent film star named Roscoe "Fatty" Tissue (a tribute to Fatty Arbuckle). There were also allusions to Citizen Kane, The Maltese Falcon, and other classic Hollywood films.

The opening shot of "Mathnet, "via VHS.
From the beginning, "Mathnet" was the most popular part of Square One.
As CTW president Joan Ganz said, it "knocks the socks off 12-year-olds." There have been plenty of fans who can testify to "Mathnet's" educational help, from the "angle of reflection" problems featured in the pilot episode to the multiplication and division in "The Mystery of the Maltese Pigeon." In another episode, "The Problem of the Missing Monkey," the detectives figured out how to use a map's scale to determine the distance between two points.
That math helped kids in other ways, too. In June 10, 1998, the Richmond Times-Dispatch highlighted Jimmy Hoke, who managed to win a University of Idaho contest featuring weekly math problems. Jimmy was a "Mathnet" addict who said the show helped him win the prize — a brand new computer. Hoke's mom gave a plausible reason why Jimmy won: "He's probably the only child who dressed up as George Frankly for Halloween."

The Los Angeles Police museum. (LAPD Museum's Facebook page)
When "Mathnet" was being filmed in Los Angeles, it wasn't shot just anywhere. The cast was lucky enough to film in an old police station.
The station is now a museum, but it's shown up in quite a few TV and film productions, including Parks and Recreation.
"Mathnet" superfan Maia Weinstock tracked down most of the show's cast for interviews, which are filled with great trivia. Actor Joe Howard revealed that his role as George Frankly wasn't originally a sure bet.
The casting director actually wanted Howard to read for "man in the baseball cap," but his audition was so strong that he was immediately chosen to play George Frankly. That was with stiff competition, too — Howard says Phil Hartman also auditioned for the role.
It's a good thing Howard pulled it off, because he came to define the role of the buffoonish yet well-meaning detective. It also meant we got to see his dancing:

George Frankly doing the box step.
"Mathnet" fans have always wondered why Kate Monday was replaced by Pat Tuesday two seasons in. Now we know: in 2012, Beverly Leech, who played Kate Monday, revealed just why her character left the show.
In 1990, "Mathnet" moved from LA to New York. Leech guesses that budgetary concerns and proximity to the show's writers motivated the move. But it also meant a cast shake-up: Though Joe Howard made the transition to New York, Leech couldn't go because of personal and financial reasons. So she was replaced.
It was an amicable, but difficult, breakup. Leech said, "The producer and I both cried on the phone. ... But CTW/PBS did what they had to do to meet their budget, and I did what I had to do to meet mine."
As a kid, the world of "Mathnet" seemed real. But as adults, we know that dedicated character actors gave the show most of its distinctive flavor.
James Earl Jones was a big get to play boss Thad Green, but less notable names showed up, as well. In "The Case of the Parking Meter Massacre," you'll spot Wayne Knight, best known as Newman from Seinfeld, playing the fishy Mr. Pickwick (an allusion to The Pickwick Papers by Charles Dickens). Similar to Newman's scheme on Seinfeld to recycle aluminum cans in different states, Pickwick had his own Newman-esque plan to resell stolen parking meters to small municipalities in neighboring states.
The stars of the show have frequently appeared in other shows and movies. Beverly Leech, who came to LA from Paris, Texas, studied acting under the legendary Stella Adler, and she's been on shows like Rizzoli & Isles and Mad Men.

Beverly Leech in Mad Men. (AMC)
Joe Howard was in Grumpy Old Men and Anger Management, along with a slew of other projects (he seems to be frequently cast as a priest). His son is an actor as well and recently played a Ninja Turtle.
Toni Di Buono, who played Pat Tuesday, could be seen in a recent episode of HBO's The Leftovers.
Being on "Mathnet" meant the stars had to be careful what roles they took outside of the hit show. In the November 12, 1991, edition of the Columbus Dispatch, Di Buono said that "as far as the kids are concerned, I'm Pat Tuesday." She was willing to act in commercials, but she only did a voiceover for Miller Ultralite beer because she didn't want kids to see Pat Tuesday's face.
It's tough to know exactly why CTW axed "Mathnet," but both Howard and Di Buono blame Ghostwriter for sapping CTW's budget. Ghostwriter, which premiered in 1992, centered on a gang of friends who used the help of a ghost to solve crimes. Academically, it favored words over numbers.
When CTW changed hands, the new management was interested in promoting their own pet project. "The first thing these new people brought in was this show called Ghostwriter," Howard said, "and they spent a fortune developing it — I mean, a fortune. They could have done five 'Mathnets.' But they wanted to do their own thing. And you know, it was really a shame."
Univision's upfront presentation — given to ad buyers to convince them to purchase commercial space on the Spanish-language network — featured Bill Clinton.
The former president didn't say anything all that unusual or off-book. He was primarily there to talk about how much he admires the children and grandchildren of immigrants, who work prodigious hours to support their families. He kept bringing up millennials. And he talked about how everybody needs to come together in respectful conversation, even when we disagree, because we get more out of the world when we cooperate than when we're in conflict.
Sounds like pretty standard Bill Clinton stuff, right? So why was he speaking at a presentation for advertisers?
The answer is that Univision wanted the promise of Clinton's appearance to get those advertisers in the door (who better than an ex-president to do that?), and then it wanted Clinton to be its ultimate pitchman. Unlike other broadcast TV networks, Univision doesn't have to convince advertisers to purchase ad time alongside its new programs. No, it has to convince them to purchase ad time on the network, period.
And that's kind of messed up. Because according to some metrics — particularly the ones advertisers care about — and on some nights, Univision is the number-one network in America. So why is it having such a tough time bringing in ad dollars? And what do its struggles say about the future of diversity on TV?
Throughout much of the TV season (September through May), Univision is the number-two network on TV in the 18- to 34-year-old demographic, and the network's numbers indicate it was actually the number-one network among that audience on 77 nights — or about 21 percent — of the 2014-'15 TV season. And those numbers improve with each year Univision remains on the air.
The rise of Univision is one of the least written about and least reported — yet most important — TV stories of the past decade. The broadcast television model is supposed to be dying, but Univision strongly suggests that it's alive and well in the Latino market, which just happens to be the fastest-growing demographic in the country.
And what's more, Univision viewers are more likely to watch programming live than other broadcast network audiences. The network says 91 percent of its viewers watch its content live. Its closest competitor, NBC, sees only 56 percent live viewing, and that's with a substantial boost from the NFL.
In theory, then, Univision should be a perfect fit for advertisers, who are notoriously leery about relying on DVR viewership. But the network's upfront presentation frequently gave off the air of being a hard sell, at least when it wasn't attempting to explain to those in attendance what, say, the preeminent Mexican soccer league was. (Univision also thinks its ratings for an important soccer competition this summer are going to outdo the World Cup. With 32 games, all of them scheduled to air live in primetime, they just might.)
Univision can share all the dumbfounding stats it wants. It can do as well in the Nielsen ratings as possible. But its greatest problem is always going to be overcoming structural biases in the way TV sells ad time.
In the 1980s, television advertisers started paying attention to viewership demographics in earnest. Shows like the beleaguered hospital drama St. Elsewhere stayed on the air in part because they commanded a larger proportion of younger viewers. That trend continued in the '90s and reached its peak in the 2000s.
One of the clear effects has been that networks chase the demographics that advertisers find most valuable. That's why we hear so much about the 18- to 49-year-old demographic. These viewers are theoretically less loyal to any particular brand and more willing to try something new. Obviously, that's of interest to advertisers.
But advertisers also want to attract as rich of an audience as possible. Upper-class viewers carry a premium, and a significant number of them can save a low-rated show from cancellation. CBS is fond of bragging about The Good Wife's "upscale" audience, for instance.
While there are a host of reasons for TV's struggle to diversify, advertising is one of the major ones. Programmers believe that tastemakers in desirable demographics want to watch shows about people who are just like them — which is why there have been so many shows about young, single, white people who don't seem to worry much about money. The networks will take a ding from the press about diversity if they can attract viewers who look just like the characters onscreen (and will hopefully buy the products advertised).
Maybe that's why Univision brought in Clinton give ad buyers the hard sell. If he couldn't rouse their social consciences, however, the network also wanted to point out success stories from companies that specifically targeted Latino audiences. JCPenney, for example, saw success via targeting Latina women, Univision said, before citing other companies like Nissan and Papa John's, which boasted significant growth among Latinos in particular.
It's the same marketing speak you'd hear from any network at its upfront presentation. But at Univision, it has an added feeling of desire to be noticed by someone, anyone. (The network says 13 of the top 50 advertising brands in America don't buy ad time on it at all.) That such a successful network has to make such a forthright pitch for its existence to be acknowledged is a good indicator of why diversity has had such trouble gaining a foothold in American television.
Every week, three of Vox's writers will discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, deputy culture editor Jen Trolio is  joined by executive editor Matthew Yglesias and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Jen Trolio: After "Kill the Boy," we're officially halfway through Game of Thrones season five. And while this episode wasn't particularly heavy on the action, it did, as Christophe Haubursin said in his recap, set some potentially huge plot developments in motion.
Mentions of a certain season's onset are at an all-time high — for some reason, I thought the phrase "winter is coming" would start to fade into the background, but lately it's all anyone can say. And with Jon Snow and Tormund Giantsbane making deals to join forces against the White Walkers, the threat of an undead skeleton army descending on the Wall is starting to feel much more real.
Meanwhile, "Kill the Boy" introduced a whole new group of zombie-esque creatures in the Stone Men, a.k.a. the greyscale-ridden baddies that attacked Jorah the Explorer and Tyrion as the two made their way through the ruins of Valyria. Not quite "back from the dead" but certainly no longer human, the Stone Men are crazy contagious with the disease that left Stannis's daughter Shireen with a face full of scars.
Between Game of Thrones' recent greyscale-focused foreshadowing and the reveal of Jorah's "dude, that is not just eczema" wrist rash in this episode's final scene, I wonder if we're headed for an outbreak. If Jorah pushes on toward Meereen, and greyscale begins to spread there, I suspect it could have an interesting effect on the movement of certain characters around the Seven Kingdoms' chessboard.
I suppose I should mention here that while I'm an avid Game of Thrones viewer, I haven't read George R. R. Martin's Song of Ice and Fire novels, so any changes between the show and the books are lost on me; I'm also completely blind with regard to what might lie ahead, and whether it's greyscale-related or not. (If you're eager to learn more about the affliction, Vulture's greyscale primer, as well as the video below, in which Martin explains it a bit, are quite useful.)

What I'm not totally clear on why it appears to be emerging as such a big plot point. On one hand, I'm thinking a Jorah-as-patient-zero outbreak in Meereen could be the catalyst Game of Thrones needs to break Dany's slave-emancipating tunnel vision and push her toward King's Landing. If that happens as the White Walkers are moving in on Stannis, Jon, and thousands of reluctant wildlings, Game of Thrones could effectively compress its overall battlefield while adding multiple layers of supernatural phenomena — a Seven Kingdoms zombie apocalypse, basically — to the mix.
On the other hand, I'm a little worried about the show introducing too many different "creatures" in some misguided attempt to become The Walking Dead. We've already got the White Walkers, and who knows what will become of the Mountain once Qyburn is through with him. Plus dragons. Dare I suggest that if Game of Thrones adds too many monsters, we might lose some of its quieter but equally compelling political scheming?
Regardless, Valyria looked awesome, and the Stone Men scene was excellent, even if it felt a bit tacked on at episode's end, especially with the fake fade to black of Tyrion being pulled underwater. (Anyone else feel a little cheated that we didn't get to see the actual escape? This happened back in season one, too, when Tyrion was knocked out before a massive battle.) At the very least, the greyscale plot has added an intriguing new wrinkle to the proceedings.
Andrew, how does greyscale work in the books? Is this something Martin has done much of anything with? Or is the show grasping at straws?
Read our recap of "Kill the Boy," and come back throughout the week for more thoughts.
A few months ago, my wife and I watched an incredible film. It was Star Wars — the 1977 science fiction classic that we remember from VHS tapes in the late 1980s and early '90s and that older folks might remember from the big screen in the early '80s — except we watched it at Blu-ray quality on a high-definition television in the comfort of our own home. And when I say Star Wars I mean Star Wars, as in the title that appears on the screen is Star Wars, with no reference to "Episode IV" or "a New Hope," and not the 1997 special-edition recut full of random added CGI.

Someone left a dinosaur in the desert!
Rehashing the pros and cons of the changes George Lucas made to the film is, at this point, senseless. The key thing is that many of us remember a somewhat different film fondly. I, for one, greatly enjoyed seeing that film except without the compromises in image quality and screen size that were necessitated by the home video technology that was available when I was a kid. And now you can. Which is great news.
The only problem is getting and watching the movie is a crime.
Back in 1997, Star Wars was re-released on the big screen for its 20th anniversary. But rather than the original cut of the film, audiences got a "special edition" that added a couple of scenes, drastically altered one to suit Lucas's changed sense of what's morally appropriate for children, and inserted an awful lot of new CGI people and creatures into various shots seemingly just to prove that it was possible.
Anyone who wants to see a high-quality version of the original cut of the film faces a couple of hurdles. One is that Lucas has never taken steps to properly preserve or restore the original physical film reels. He's gone so far as refusing to allow the Library of Congress's National Film Registry to get its hands on a copy. Nor has he released a high-quality version for home viewing. A few people may have their hands on obsolete VHS or Laserdisc sets, of course, but that doesn't help. Back in 2006, Lucas released a DVD set that contained the original cut of Star Wars, but it's a low-quality transfer made back in 1993 for the Laserdisc, not a proper DVD release — to say nothing of a Blu-ray.
Enter a hero named Petr Harmy, who painstakingly created the cut I watched and calls it the "Despecialized Edition." You can see what he did here:

He made it by digitally combining elements of the 2011 special edition Blu-rays, the 2006 bonus DVD, a 2004 HDTV telecast, a scan of an old 35-millimeter print, and a handful of other sources. It took a lot of hard work, but thanks to Harmy's labor of love a really cool experience is now available.
But, again, watching it is a crime.
A lot of commentary on the subject of changes to Star Wars features a kind of over-the-top moralistic outrage at Lucas. But in truth, Lucas is under no obligation to share my taste in films. If he doesn't want to release a high-definition version of the film that originally screened, he's under no obligation to do that either. To each his own.
The ridiculous thing about the situation isn't that Lucas doesn't want to make the cut of the film that I want to watch. It's that it was illegal for Harmy to make it. And it was illegal for me to download it. And it would be illegal for me to make it available for download from Vox.com or even to put a link on this page that would let you go get it.  It's illegal because of how Congress has over the years extended and expanded the scope of copyright law in ways that have become perverse and destructive to human culture.
Of course it would be difficult to have a thriving commercial culture if films like Star Wars didn't enjoy some copyright protection.
But how many years of exclusive right to profit off a hit film do creators need to make production worthwhile? Five? Ten? Fifteen? Thirty? I'm not sure exactly what the right answer is. But obviously Star Wars made more than enough money in its first three decades of existence to satisfy any sane human being. The additional decades of copyright protection it enjoys do nothing to create meaningful financial incentives for creators. Even worse, Congress has gotten in the habit of retroactively extending copyright terms, so that in practice nothing ever loses copyright protection anymore.
And this extends not just to protection from commercial competition, but to limits on utterly non-commercial undertakings, like Harmy's restoration effort.
Unfortunately, there's little sign that policymakers are interested in reconsidering the trend toward ever-more-restrictive limits on what people can do with old works of art. Instead, via the negotiations over a Trans-Pacific Partnership on trade the US is pushing for other countries to adopt misguided 50-or-more-year copyright terms. Defenders of these moves position themselves as the champions of culture and creation. But culture needs a balance, not a regime of ever greater restrictiveness.
Just watch Harmy's Star Wars cut and see for yourself. I promise I won't tell the FBI.
ABC has unveiled its 2015 fall schedule and also revealed that it's once again time to play the music and light the lights, because Kermit the Frog, Miss Piggy, and the rest of the Muppets are officially returning to primetime.
Family-friendly half-hour The Muppets is by far the buzziest element of the network's fall lineup, which otherwise remains largely the same as it did during the 2014-'15 season. Once again, Modern Family anchors a two-hour Wednesday-night comedy block, and Shonda Rhimes owns Thursdays, the home of Grey's Anatomy, Scandal, and How to Get Away With Murder. There are a few newcomers, however, including two "masculine" soaps and a comedy starring Ken Jeong of Community and The Hangover.
Early 2016 will bring several more new programs to ABC, including an adaptation of the 1989 John Hughes and John Candy movie Uncle Buck with Mike Epps in the title role, as well as the returns of American Crime and Secrets and Lies.
Read on to find out what's airing when, and to watch trailers for ABC's new fall shows.
8 to 10 pm – Dancing with the Stars
10 to 11 pm – Castle
8 to 8:30 pm – The Muppets, which ABC president Paul Lee describes as "not your parents' Muppets." Co-written and -produced by The Big Bang Theory executive producer Bill Prady, the series will try its hand at the mockumentary style in order to explore the Muppets’ personal lives and relationships, both at home and at work, as well as romances, breakups, achievements, disappointments, wants, and desires. Watch a trailer below:

8:30 to 9 pm – Fresh Off the Boat
9 to 10 pm – Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.
9 to 10 pm (in the gap between S.H.I.E.L.D.'s fall and spring half-seasons) – Marvel's Agent Carter
10 to 11 pm – New drama Quantico follows a diverse group of FBI recruits. It sounds like a fairly standard premise, until you learn the series' "twist": one of them may be the mastermind behind the biggest attack on New York City since 9/11. (Okay, it still doesn't sound that fresh, but you can see what ABC is going for.) Watch a trailer below:

8 to 8:30 pm – The Middle
8:30 to 9 pm – The Goldbergs
9 to 9:30 pm – Modern Family
9:30 to 10 pm – Black-ish
10 to 11 pm – Nashville
8 to 9 pm – Grey's Anatomy
9 to 10 pm – Scandal
10 to 11 pm – How to Get Away With Murder
8 to 8:30 pm – Last Man Standing
8:30 to 9 pm – New comedy Dr. Ken, starring Community and The Hangover's Ken Jeong. Jeong — who actually worked as a medical doctor before he started acting — plays a brilliant physician with no bedside manner. He wants to be a good family man to his therapist wife (Suzy Nakamura) and two children, but generally just drives everyone crazy at home. Fans of the late ABC sitcom Trophy Wife will be pleased to see Albert Tsai (Bert!) return to television as one of Dr. Ken's kids. Watch a trailer below:

9 to 10 pm – Shark Tank
10 to 11 pm – 20/20
8 pm – Saturday Night Football
7 to 8 pm – America's Funniest Home Videos
8 to 9 pm – Once Upon a Time
8 to 9 pm (in the gap between Once Upon a Time's fall and spring half-seasons)  – Galavant
9 to 10 pm – Oil is a North Dakota–set drama about a married couple who dream of escaping their working-class roots and striking it rich during the biggest oil discovery in American history. Described as a "masculine soap," the series is poised to follow in the footsteps of shows like Dallas and Dynasty. Watch a trailer below:

10 to 11 pm – Of Kings and Prophets, another "masculine soap," is a Biblical saga of faith, ambition, and betrayal as told through the eyes of a battle-weary king, a powerful and resentful prophet, and a resourceful young shepherd on a collision course with destiny. Watch a trailer below:

This article deals with major spoilers regarding the Thor comic book.
For the past few months, Marvel has been revamping and reworking some of its most iconic heroes. Captain America is now Sam Wilson, a black man who used to be the superhero Falcon. Iceman — a.k.a. Bobby Drake — came out as a gay man. And in July, Marvel announced that Thor would be a woman.
The catch was we didn't know who this female Thor was or where she came from. Writer Jason Aaron purposely made it hard to guess. All we knew was that she was "worthy" enough to pick up his hammer, Mjolnir.
"The inscription on Thor's hammer reads, ‘Whosoever holds this hammer, if HE be worthy, shall possess the power of Thor.' Well, it's time to update that inscription," Marvel editor Wil Moss said at the time.
This mystery was solved on Tuesday when Aaron revealed that Jane Foster (played by Natalie Portman in the movies) was worthy to pick up Thor's magical hammer and wield the powers of a thunder god.
"She's grown and changed and evolved a lot over the years, become a doctor in her own right," Aaron told Vulture. "So this to me is not just the next step for her character, but really the next evolution of the core promise that has always been at the heart of Thor's mythology."
No. Probably not.
Chris Hemsworth is locked into his contract for three more movies. And there's no way (though I'd like to be proven wrong) that Marvel would switch things up now. When you consider the company's track record of producing female Avengers characters, it looks exponentially more impossible. If anything, I'd bet on a tiny Easter egg scene where Jane lifts the hammer, like the rest of the Avengers try to do in Avengers: Age of Ultron.
The comics are a different story.
Marvel has, with some bumps, really pushed for more diversity in its comics. Jane's story is compelling and tragic. She has cancer in the comic books, and is frail. But when she turns into Thor, the powers of the Norse god pump through her veins. When she changes back, the transition affects her human state and makes her weaker.
FosThor, the nickname I am now bestowing on the female Thor, will headline Marvel's All-New All Different Avengers comic book and be part of the Thors miniseries, which will debut during Marvel's summer comic book event Secret Wars.
Are you a Mad Men fan? Do you want to feel sad?
AMC has given us an exclusive look at the last Mad Men teaser ever. This is a series that has always produced haunting, stylish promos, both in still photograph and trailer form. So it's noteworthy that AMC has chosen to go with something a little more heartwarming in the buildup to the series finale — and all those shots of Betty (January Jones) carry an added resonance in the wake of the penultimate episode.
Still, this video is mostly a reminder of how quickly things change. One day Sally Draper is a tiny child, and the next day she's a young woman. One day Peggy Olson is a fresh-faced secretary, and the next day she's all super important and stuff. Don Draper is always handsome, but his handsomeness mellows with age, no?
Anyway, watch and watch again. You won't remotely spoil yourself for the finale, but the promo might leave you feeling like you never want Mad Men to end.
The series finale airs Sunday, May 17, at 10 pm Eastern on AMC.
Update: Added air date and time.
Like this video? Subscribe to Vox on YouTube.
This article deals with major spoilers for Avengers: Age of Ultron.
Throughout the last few years, Marvel's movies have repeatedly teased the existence of mysterious jewels called the Infinity Stones, and Avengers: Age of Ultron contains the biggest clue yet — Thor (Chris Hemsworth) has a vision of the gems, their destruction, and the power they are capable of producing. Plus those who stayed to watch the film's mid-credits scene saw Thanos vow to procure the stones himself.
To casual fans, these shiny rocks appear to just be magic MacGuffins, side quests intended to occupy our heroes until they battle their next villain. But there's more to the Infinity Stones than meets the eye. And it's something only comic book readers will understand. Here's a brief guide:
In the mythology of the Marvel Cinematic Universe, the Infinity Stones are six "ingots" of immense power. We learn this in Guardians of the Galaxy, when the Collector explains to the Guardians (and the audience) why they're such a big deal. He says:
Oh, my new friends, before creation itself, there were six singularities, then the universe exploded into existence and the remnants of this system were forged into concentrated ingots... Infinity Stones.
The Collector goes on to say that the gems are so powerful, the people who hold them eventually blow up and die. Later we find out that you have to be special and superpowered just to handle them.
Prior to Age of Ultron, Guardians and the Collector had been our primary source of information about the Infinity Stones. But Ultron has provided us with some important new intel, by way of direct references to the stones and Thor's visit to a magical, dream-inducing hot spring. Thor's resulting vision reveals the Infinity Stones (we had never seen them together) as well as Infinity Stones in two different objects — the Tesseract (from The Avengers, Thor, and Captain America: The First Avenger) and the Aether (Thor: The Dark World).
Outside of Guardians and Ultron, however, the Infinity Stones have always lingered in secondary plots, serving more or less as an Easter egg for Marvel comic book readers. It's when you combine their role in the comic books with their depiction in Marvel's movies that things get really interesting.
During one scene in Age of Ultron, we're told that Vision possesses the Mind stone. It's one of the rare instances in which a character in one of Marvel's films has specifically mentioned and differentiated these coveted ingots from one another.
Usually, that kind of commentary comes from producers, directors, or Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige, who confirmed in 2013, that the Tesseract is the Space stone. The next year, Guardians of the Galaxy director James Gunn confirmed that the stone in his movie was indeed the Power stone.
All three of these references are from the comic books, where the Infinity Stones are known as Infinity Gems and have special names:
Please ignore the colors of these gems, as they've changed many times. (Marvel)
The colors of the individual Infinity Stones/Gems have changed throughout the years, including when they began to appear in the movies; what matters are their names, which spell out what each gem can do. The Reality Gem allows its possessor to alter reality, while the Time Gem affords the ability to freeze, slow, and speed up time itself. The Power Gem, as you may have guessed, yields immense power, while the Mind Gem boosts its holder's existing mental capabilities, sometimes resulting in augmented telepathy and telekinesis. The Soul Gem, according to Marvel, allows its bearer to use the gem to absorb souls. And the Space Gem enables intergalactic travel and, at its full potential, omnipresence.
In short, the Infinity Stones are awesome. If you're a superhero or supervillain, they'll make you even more powerful than you already are. And if you manage to collect and combine them all, you have what's called the Infinity Gauntlet, which will grant you unparalleled omnipotence. So if the wrong person — say, someone like Thanos — gets his or her hands on all six, you should probably just make plans to live in a different universe.
What's sort of strange and daring about Marvel's decision to incorporate the Infinity Stones into its movies is that neither the Infinity Stones nor Thanos are particularly integral to the story of the Avengers. Thanos is probably in the ballpark of the top seven Avengers villains, but characters like Kang, Ultron, Loki, Dr. Doom (whose movie rights belong to Fox), and even the Skrulls are all more compelling.
Part of the reason is that Thanos operates in Marvel's cosmic universe. It's a weird place with characters like Uatu the Watcher, the Acanti (a race of whale-like creatures), Galactus the Devourer, the Inhumans, Kree and Skrulls, the Silver Surfer (whose movie rights, like Doom's, belong to Fox), and a slew of other beings, races, and civilizations.
Marvel loved building out that robust world in the comics. But it raised a continual logistical question: if said world is so big and different characters all have their own adventures (characters like the Silver Surfer and Adam Warlock each had their own comic books), how do you get them to interact with Earth and the heroes who live there?
In order to set Thanos's sights on Earth, Marvel's writers would have to construct plots wrapped around space invasions or some kind of planetary threat. The Infinity Stones resolve this problem by luring Thanos from the vastness of space to experience his own earthbound adventures.
In the comics, the Infinity Stones — which, again, were known in print as Infinity Gems — played a major role in Marvel's Infinity Gauntlet series in 1991 by writer Jim Starlin and artist George Perez. Perez's art is complex, unwieldy, and psychedelic at times, but it matches up well with the overall story. Death was apparently upset that there were more living people than dead ones, so she called upon Thanos to balance the scales and start killing things:
Infinity Gauntlet No. 1 .(Marvel)
Thanos was the perfect guy for this. He's one nihilistic bastard, and with the Infinity Gems, he was poised to wipe out vast numbers of people without even blinking:
Infinity Gauntlet. (Marvel)
Perez draws Thanos as a brute. His chin is square, large enough to have multiple clefts. His eyes are black orbs. He's seemingly as wide as he is tall. And his legs are thick, as if he's smuggled oil barrels under his quads. There is no elegance about him — he's a monster you send in when you don't need finesse. There is no flair with Thanos, only brutal efficiency. And in order to defeat him, Marvel's greatest superheroes must come together knowing full well that they probably don't stand a chance of winning:
(Marvel)
This army of heroes and how easily they're picked apart underscores Thanos's true power. If it were just the Avengers or just Thor going out into space and fighting him, we wouldn't experience the same kind of gravitas. Beating Thanos will require assistance from a being who's stronger than him (which is basically nonexistent); truthfully, the only thing powerful enough to beat Thanos is Thanos.
The latter matchup comes to fruition as the Infinity Gauntlet is assembled. Something strange happens to this undulating hunk of evil, and Thanos gets thirsty. The Mad Titan™ isn't just content to do what Death asks him to do. He wants to impress her and earn her love. Nothing in this moment is more important to Thanos than Death's affection.
But Death is stone cold, and puts Thanos in the friend zone, a friend zone from which he never escapes:
The thirst of Thanos is real. (Marvel)
Starlin writes this sense of inadequacy as Thanos's fatal flaw. He becomes so laser-focused on making Death his girlfriend that he starts doing dumb things like acting weak in hopes of getting Death's attention. Terminal thirstiness is Thanos's only character trait, other than his bleak nihilism:
Adam Warlock drops a truth bomb, and it burns. (Marvel)
Starlin and Perez's comic eventually finds order restored and Thanos becoming a farmer, but not before floating the idea that the Infinity Gems/Stones are limited by whoever holds them. Despite his bloodlust, Thanos was defeated because he was careless. We see his granddaughter Nebula (in the movies, she's his adopted daughter) try — and fail — to control the gauntlet. And in the end, we see a character named Adam Warlock promise to distribute the Infinity Gems among people he can trust.
Warlock and the Infinity Watch No. 7. (Marvel)
There's something Tolkien-esque about the dynamic between the people who possess the Infinity Gems. Like the Ring, nefarious people want to control them. And there's always the lingering suspicion that someone may want to orchestrate a power play to try to obtain the other gems.
Moondragon (the salty bald woman pictured above) has the Mind gem, and it enhances her psionic powers greatly. She's a telepath, but when Warlock gives her the Mind gem, she gains telekinetic powers. That's a major power boost. But in order to keep her in check, Warlock installs safeguards between Moondragon and the rest of gem holders, a group called the Infinity Watch:
The Infinity Watch No. 8. (Marvel)
Throughout comic book history, the Infinity Gems frequently change hands. They eventually land in the possession of a group called the Illuminati, a group of "good" superheroes — Dr. Strange (Soul), Reed Richards (Reality), Tony Stark (Space), Professor Charles Xavier (Mind), Captain America (Time), Namor (Power), Black Bolt, and Black Panther — that you would theoretically trust with them (assuming someone has to possess them). The Illuminati keep each other in check, and they keep the Infinity Gems hidden from one another.
The Illuminati's Infinity Gems are the main focus of the Infinity arc in Jonathan Hickman's New Avengers. Hickman's story is punctuated by the clashing members of the Illuminati, but also the hesitation with which they regard the gems. Unlike Thanos, they're reluctant to use these powerful objects, and the gems represent a last resort rather than a desired MacGuffin:
New Avengers No. 2. (Marvel)
In the aforementioned Hickman arc, Captain America assembles the gauntlet to ostensibly save the world. And in the process, five of the six gems are destroyed. Meanwhile, the Time Gem straight up disappears:
New Avengers No. 3. (Marvel)
According to Marvel, the Infinity Gems/Stones will appear in the upcoming Marvel comic book event Secret Wars.
Maybe. But if the Infinity Stones are going to be destroyed, their obliteration might not occur in the same fashion. Hickman's Avengers run is grand, expansive, and interconnected. It's a complicated, rewarding beast that involves different universes, journeys into the cosmos, and dozens of new characters. Though not impossible, it would be a massive undertaking to bring all of the complexities of Hickman's run to the big screen by the time Avengers: Infinity War Part I is released in 2018.
What the movies will possibly try to do is combine elements from different comic arcs throughout history. I suspect Infinity War will draw from the comic book The Thanos Quest, a two-issue comic book that sees Thanos hunting down powerful, immortal beings in order to assemble the Infinity Gauntlet:
The Thanos Quest No. 1. (Marvel)
That falls in line with the movies, and especially the mid-credits scene from Avengers: Age of Ultron, in which Thanos says he's going to assemble the gauntlet himself. In the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Nova Prime, the Collector, the Asgardians, and Vision currently hold four of the six Infinity Stones (remember, two of them have yet to be revealed) — and Thanos will probably hunt down these people and organizations to assemble his gauntlet.
The other comic book arc Marvel Studios might borrow from is the company's recent Infinity arc. That arc featured, among other things, Thanos trying to kill his long-lost son, some of the most powerful Avengers traveling to space to deal with aliens, Thanos attacking Earth while those Avengers were away, and the detonation of a Terrigen bomb that evolved some of Earth's population into Inhumans. It may have been streamlined, but it hits all the marks of what Marvel wants to do with its characters and storylines in Avengers: Infinity War, namely:
We haven't yet seen all the Infinity Stones. We're still missing Time and Soul, which should make Marvel's next few movies interesting in terms of where and when they might show up.
The next movie on the company's docket, however, is Ant-Man (July 17), which will be followed by Captain America: Civil War (May 2016). Both of those movies seem more concerned with character development and team dynamics than they do with introducing new Infinity Stones, though I could be very wrong.
If I had to guess, I'd wager that the Soul gem will probably show up in Dr. Strange (November 2016). Dr. Strange was in possession of the Soul gem in the comic books, and it fits into his mysterious and magical world. Spells, sorcerers, magic, and all-around weirdness make the idea of a soul-taking gem seem a little unless unbelievable.
The Time gem will probably find a place in either Guardians of the Galaxy 2 (May 2017) or Thor: Ragnarok (July 2017). Both movies deal with science, and the aspect of time travel has always been a fascination for sci-fi movies. The idea of time travel could also make a neat segue into spelling out Star Lord's (Chris Pratt) mysterious history.
But no matter when the final two appear, all six Infinity Stones, as well as Thanos and Thanos's Infinity Gauntlet, will undoubtedly make an appearance in the two-part Avengers: Infinity War in 2018 and 2019. Worlds will be broken, heroes will be defeated, and this epic Marvel mystery will finally be solved. And we'll all be watching.
WATCH: Welcome to the digital age of comics
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and foreign policy writer Amanda Taub. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Todd VanDerWerff: First of all, Libby, Duck Phillips is an amazing heel, and I will not have you besmirching him. He's the perfect guy to bring Pete Campbell to a life of happiness in Wichita, Kansas, because he's so desperate to be respected (and so very bad at it, too).
But I also wanted to discuss something of great importance. I think I know how Mad Men ends.
Now, obviously, Matthew Weiner is going to outguess all of us. It's a fool's game to predict anything about this show. Everybody knows that. But in talking with Eileen Sutton, a colleague from our Vox Media sister publication Racked who first pointed this out to me, I've come to realize that Mad Men is coming up on a very famous anniversary in advertising history.
Let me explain.
I am of the firm belief that Don is going to head back to New York. Indeed, I suspect he's already decided to head that way again eventually at the end of "The Milk and Honey Route." I am also of the firm belief that he might believe he's done with advertising — and McCann might believe it's done with him — but neither will prove to be true. Just as Don has finally assembled all the pieces of his life into something like a coherent, whole human being, he'll be shattered again, because I think ultimately Weiner's cynicism will win out over his optimism when it comes to his main character.
There's also the matter of Don's children now needing him more than ever in the wake of their mother's death — and the matter of all of that money Don has been giving away all season long. I doubt he's anywhere close to destitute, but his cash flow problems have to be substantial at this point.
So I think Don is going to go back to New York. I think Don is going to go back to McCann. I think he is going to win back his job with a brilliant pitch for a McCann client. I think we're going to think we're on the verge of the Don Draper pitch to end all Don Draper pitches.
Picture it, if you will.
Don walks into the room with the client. Everything is on the line. His career. His family. His future. Everyone leans forward (including us). He smiles, launching into his pitch with something like "I'd like to talk to you about family," and then either the door to the room closes (shutting us out) or the screen fades to black.
And out of the blackness, we begin to hear perhaps the most famous ad of the 1970s.

Eileen first mentioned this idea to me a few weeks ago as where she thought things were headed, and it instantly became my favorite endgame theory, even as I found it implausible for various reasons. (For one thing, Mad Men does its best not to ape actual campaigns.)
But as the weeks have gone on, Eileen's theory (which I have embellished upon above) has stuck with me. It explains the season's obsession with Coca-Cola (which turns up even in this episode, in the form of the broken Coke machine). It explains the season's obsession with connection. And it explains the long, long wait we've had for a vintage Don Draper pitch. (By my count, we haven't gotten one since the sixth-season finale, which was the Hershey's pitch that lost Don his job.) Why shouldn't the last Don Draper pitch ever be one that gives us a famous ad that feels like it came out of a Don Draper pitch?
What I also love about Eileen's idea is that it has a baked-in, awful cynicism to it, laced with a childlike sweetness. That's an ad about world peace and people coming together in harmony — and it's being used to sell soda. It's the ultimate in commodification of powerful ideas by the wheels of commerce, and it's the ultimate in America's blithe belief that if it could just shut out the bad parts — or share a Coke — with the world, everything would be a little bit better.
Now, again, I don't quite expect this to happen. But if you asked me to lay down money on a theory, I'd take Eileen's. It's the only Mad Men ending theory I've heard in the past few years that made me actually want to see some version of it come to life.
What do you guys think? Is this off the wall? And don't let me distract you from the episode at hand!
Read the recap, and come back later today for thoughts from Amanda.
Previous entry
Next: Amanda on Betty's moment of grace
Like this video? Subscribe to Vox on YouTube.
At Fox's annual upfront presentation — at which the network promoted its upcoming fall schedule to ad buyers — the highlight reel was dominated by footage from all those other Fox networks, like FX and Fox Sports.
There's good reason for this. Fox slipped into last place among the big four broadcast networks this year, with a disastrous fall and a spring that were only slightly mitigated by the arrival of monster hit Empire. Focusing on other parts of the corporation that are doing well is just the sort of thing ABC used to do when it was mired in fourth place. (Last year's ABC presentation, for instance, featured footage from Marvel superhero movies, the Star Wars universe, and Frozen, even though the network didn't really have much to do with any of these properties. They merely existed in the Disney corporate sphere alongside ABC.)
Still, Fox is doing some things right. Installing the heads of 20th Century Fox TV to run the network is probably the future of television as a medium, and it does have Empire, a hit so big that it may have quietly reinvigorated faith in network television. And, as always, it has a fall slate full of shows that take big swings. Even if they end up striking out, you have to give the network points for trying.
If you just want to see Fox's schedule, go here. For everybody else, here are five things I think about Fox's new lineup.
To be fair, every network thinks reruns are dumb. There's ample evidence that in this day and age, there's little to no interest from audiences in watching episodes that have already aired. If you want to catch up on a show, there are so many better ways to do so than waiting around for older episodes to air again.
To that end, Fox has done its level best to create a network schedule without any reruns at all. New Girl, which, like many Fox shows, has often been affected by the network airing playoff baseball in the fall, will be back in January, so it can air a 22-episode season pretty much straight through. Event series like a reboot of The X-Files and slasher horror-comedy Scream Queens will be handled similarly. In an era when we are probably moving toward the majority of TV series eventually seeing their entire seasons released on the same day, Netflix-style, event programming is likely an evolutionary step in the right direction.
Fox has done its level best to create a schedule without any reruns at all
But there's one tiny problem here: when network shows leave the air for long stretches at a time, they have a tendency to return with weaker ratings. It happened to both Gotham and Sleepy Hollow this past season, and while decreased viewership might reflect creative struggles on both series, it could also reflect audiences getting out of the habit of watching them.
Yes, cable frequently takes gigantic breaks between seasons, but cable also can focus its marketing muscle more precisely than broadcast TV can (since cable is only ever promoting a couple of series at a time). There's a reason the 22-episode season is pretty standard for broadcast networks, and Fox's new plan could confirm exactly why that's the case.
For years now, ABC has been playing around with the idea of airing its flagship hits in half-seasons — one in the fall and one in the spring — with a short-order series used to bridge the gap between them, usually airing in the winter. Now Fox has bought into this idea wholesale. It's airing most of its series with full-season orders using this method of programming, building to a midseason cliffhanger in the fall, taking a couple of months off, then returning with another batch of episodes.
Fox, too, has its own live musical
It's a risky proposition for the reasons outlined above, but it's one that serialized shows like Empire are uniquely well-positioned to survive. After all, one of the shows ABC uses this strategy with is the similarly soapy Scandal, and that series has mostly weathered the ratings storms.
However, no network has ever applied the ABC strategy across its programming slate. Fox runs the risk that the period between seasons is particularly terrible and fallow, but it will have a few potentially bright spots stuck in there, like the X-Files limited series and major events like a live version of the musical Grease. (Yes, Fox, too, has its own live musical.)
Right now, Fox is built on Empire, a couple of minor hits, and then a whole lot of time slots that might as well be abandoned warehouses. But Empire is huge (more in a moment), and that has validated Walden and Newman's decision to push it so heavily. It's also bought them a lot of breathing room — enough to cancel American Idol, which will end its run in the spring of 2016, after 15 seasons.
Yes, Idol was in its twilight years, and it certainly would have been finished before the end of the decade. But many networks would have squeezed even more blood from a rapidly eroding stone. By choosing to end the show at season 15, Fox doesn't just get to remind people that Idol is still on the air; it potentially gets to set the bar for how giant reality franchises wrap up.
Ending Idol indicates Fox's co-presidents aren't going to be too precious about the network's past
So far, the big reality shows of the past decade and a half — series like Survivor and The Bachelor and Dancing with the Stars — are still with us. Idol will be the first to end, and that could give its final season a kind of cachet the show hasn't had in a while. Fox loves its programming stunts, and you have to figure the network will do whatever it can to, say, reunite the original judges' panel for one night only, or haul original co-host Brian Dunkleman out of mothballs. (During an early morning conference call, Walden joked that she wasn't sure where he was.)
But more importantly, ending Idol indicates that Walden and Newman aren't going to be too precious about Fox's past. They realize the network's schedule needs a makeover via wrecking ball, and they're willing to deal with a few seasons of failure to get to a rebuilding phase.
Of course, Empire has bought the two network heads a lot of time. It's impossible to overstate just how big the show is, and as Vulture's Joe Adalian reports, the show's success has got some network execs believing network TV is a viable business again, after years of assuming they were managing its slow decline.
As long as Empire is healthy, the network will have some breathing room to rebuild
Walden and Newman declined to get too cocky during their presentation, except when it came to Empire; first they rattled off all of the categories of TV that the show was number one in, and then they turned over the stage to a lengthy musical performance from the show's cast.
Yes, talking about Empire so extensively could seem a bit redundant, but it's the best thing Fox has going right now, and as long as it's healthy, the network will have some breathing room to rebuild.
The trailers Fox showed at its presentation ranged from baffling (The Frankenstein Code, about a cop who is brought back to life after dying) to bland (Grandfathered, about John Stamos learning he has an adult son and a grandchild) to bafflingly bland (Lucifer, about the devil himself coming to our plane and ... helping solve mysteries, because of course).
It didn't suggest women are either mysterious beasts who are impossible to figure out or no-fun killjoys
But the new comedy The Grinder seems to have wit, intelligence, and spark, along with a promising cast. Rob Lowe is always at his best when playing a blowhard buffoon, and his character here is a guy who became famous playing a lawyer on TV and believes he has what it takes to join his family's real-life law practice. Fred Savage (yes, from The Wonder Years) is his fulminating brother, with the wonderful Mary Elizabeth Ellis as Savage's wife. (Also, William Devane plays both Lowe and Savage's father, making this the second time Devane has played Savage's dad. Previously, it was on the short-lived sitcom Crumbs.)
Yeah, that could be a bit too high-concept, but the trailer elicited some big laughs, and it also didn't suggest that women are either mysterious beasts who are impossible to figure out and/or no-fun killjoys, like so many other network trailers. That that's progress is a little sad, but it definitely left me wanting to check out The Grinder.
Come fall 2015, Fox's primetime lineup is going to look quite a bit different than it has in the past.
In the aftermath of its disastrous performance during the 2014-'15 TV season, the network will try to stabilize (and ultimately reverse) its recent downward spiral by launching several new programs and expanding its megahit musical soap Empire from 12 episodes to 18 episodes, all while praying that returning stalwarts like Bones, The Simpsons, and Family Guy will keep on keepin' on.

Only three members of last season's Fox freshman class — Gotham, The Last Man on Earth, and the aforementioned Empire — will return for a sophomore go-round. They'll be joined by a menu of fresh meat that features a small-screen adaptation of the 2002 Tom Cruise film Minority Report, sitcoms starring Rob Lowe and John Stamos, and a slasher comedy called Scream Queens that hails from Glee and American Horror Story creator Ryan Murphy and stars Jamie Lee Curtis, Abigail Breslin, and more.

Absent from Fox's fall schedule are the recently canceled sitcom The Mindy Project, as well as its former time-slot partner New Girl, which won't return to the network's lineup until early 2016.
Also on the docket for Fox as the season continues: the 15th and final season of American Idol, a six-episode revival of The X-Files starring original series leads Gillian Anderson and David Duchovny (its premiere is set for January 24, 2016), an adaptation of the DC Comics property Lucifer, and a live production of the musical Grease.

Read on to find out what's airing when, and to watch trailers for all of Fox's new fall 2015 shows.
8 to 9 pm — Gotham
9 to 10 pm — Minority Report is based on the Steven Spielberg–directed and Tom Cruise–starring film of the same name. Set in Washington, DC, in the year 2065, the show picks up 10 years after the demise of Precrime (the law enforcement agency from the movie that was tasked with identifying and eliminating criminals before they did anything wrong) and follows the unlikely partnership between a man haunted by the future and a cop haunted by her past as they race to stop crime before it happens. Watch a trailer below:

8 to 8:30 pm — Uncle Jesse alert! New comedy Grandfathered stars John Stamos as the "ultimate bachelor" and man-about-town whose world is upended when he meets the adult son he didn't know he had ... and discovers he’s not only a father, but a grandfather.  Fox is promising an "unconventional, sophisticated comedy about coming of age — at any age," but only time will tell if the show can deliver. Watch a trailer below:

8:30 to 9 pm — The Grinder is a new comedy starring Rob Lowe as a former TV lawyer who decides to move back home and join his family’s law firm when his television show ends, despite having no real-life experience or education with regard to actually practicing law. Fred Savage — yes, he of The Wonder Years fame — co-stars as Lowe's brother, a legitimate attorney who isn't exactly thrilled by his sibling's TV-inspired dramatics. Watch a trailer below:

9 to 10 pm — New horror comedy Scream Queens is the latest entry in Ryan Murphy's ever-growing catalog of series that tell one story over the course of one season (he also has American Horror Story and the upcoming American Crime Story at FX). Created by Murphy and his frequent collaborators Brad Falchuk and Ian Brennan, Scream Queens will tell a different story each season; season one centers on a college sorority house that's plagued by a masked killer and appears to involve lots of blood and bubble gum. Watch a short teaser below:

8 to 9 pm — New drama Rosewood is a fairly standard crime procedural that tells the story of Dr. Beaumont Rosewood (Morris Chestnut), the most brilliant private pathologist in Miami. Using his "wildly sophisticated autopsy lab," the annoyingly optimistic doc performs for-hire autopsies to uncover clues the Miami PD can’t see — all while butting heads with a female Miami PD detective who's impressed with his work but boasts "attitude and demons to spare." Prepare yourself for yet another unlikely partnership! Watch a trailer below:

9 to 10 pm — Empire
8 to 9 pm — Bones
9 to 10 pm — Sleepy Hollow
8 to 9 pm — Masterchef Junior
9 to 10 pm — World’s Funniest, which is dropping "Fails" from the end of its title, presumably so the show can feature other funniest things, America's Funniest Home Videos–style.
7 to 10:30 pm — Fox Sports Saturday: Fox College Football
7 to 7:30 pm — NFL on Fox
7:30 to 8 pm (during football season) — The OT
7:30 to 8 pm (after football season) — Bob’s Burgers
8 to 8:30 pm — The Simpsons
8:30 to 9 pm — Brooklyn Nine-Nine
9 to 9:30 pm — Family Guy
9:30 to 10 pm — The Last Man on Earth
In the biggest moment of NBC's upfront presentation — at which the network previews its upcoming fall schedule for gathered ad buyers — NBC president Bob Greenblatt sat down at a piano and accompanied famous country music singer Dolly Parton on her immortal hit "I Will Always Love You." It was everything Greenblatt has done well in his era at NBC: bold and brassy and filled with a sense of showmanship. But it was also tied to a project — a series of TV movie adaptations of Parton's most famous songs — that feels completely inexplicable.
That's where NBC finds itself at the end of the 2014-'15 TV season. The schedule it presented is a confused mishmash of things that worked at one time and blatant attempts to copy programs that've succeeded on other networks. It overrelies on big, live events.
The schedule is a confused mishmash of things that worked at one time and blatant attempts to copy programs that have succeeded on other networks
That strategy paid off for the network in the 2013-'14 season, when it soared into first place, but it didn't work so well in the 2014-'15 season, when a slew of high-profile duds caused NBC to fall by 7 percent in the ratings. It will likely retain its status as TV's number-one network among young viewers — but only just barely, and without the Super Bowl, which boosted its schedule this past winter, that likely wouldn't be the case. (Greenblatt pointed out during the network's presentation that the last time NBC aired the Super Bowl — in 2011 — it tied for last, so at least it's improved over that.)
If you just want to look at the schedule and read about the new shows, click here. For everybody else, here are five quick thoughts I had after surveying NBC's new lineup.
When NBC hit the top spot on the strength of singing competition The Voice and crime drama The Blacklist, it became clear that Greenblatt's strategy was to simply copy shows that worked for other networks, then put just enough of a spin on them to make them seem original. For everything else, sprinkle with sports and the occasional live musical. It was mercenary, but also kind of brilliant.
In this recently completed season, however, that strategy hit a wall. State of Affairs, the short-lived Katherine Heigl vehicle, desperately wanted to be Scandal but with stronger cases of the week. It failed. Similarly, the comedy A to Z, an attempt to capture some of How I Met Your Mother's magic, came and went.
This schedule feels like a network that's blindly flailing
On its 2015-'16 schedule, NBC is simply doubling down on what worked for it and other networks in the past. Medical drama Heartbreaker sounds like a reject from Shonda Rhimes's office. Mysterious thriller Blindspot sounds an awful lot like The Blacklist — right down to the secret list of crimes that must be solved (on Blindspot, they're etched into a woman's skin as tattoos). Heroes Reborn is just Heroes, uh, reborn.
Everything about this schedule feels like a network that's blindly flailing, not a network that could end up the number-one network on TV. There's an air of desperation here that NBC hasn't had in a while.
NBC does know one thing: people like to watch live events. It scored with live performances of The Sound of Music (in 2013) and Peter Pan (in 2014), and even if ratings were down for the latter, they were still great. Meanwhile, sitcom Undateable enjoyed a mild increase for its own live episode, and Saturday Night Live continues to be one of the network's strongest performers.
Live events are at least somewhat DVR-proof
So NBC is just going to throw even more live stuff on the air next year. Undateable will be live every week. So will Neil Patrick Harris's new variety show. The Wiz (with Stephanie Mills, who originally played Dorothy on Broadway, as Aunt Em) will be the latest entrant in NBC's series of live musicals. And that's to say nothing of the NFL, which will continue to dominate NBC's Sunday nights.
In some ways, this is smart strategy. Live events are at least somewhat DVR-proof, in that they encourage live-tweeting and the like. And no network has attempted a live season of a TV series since Fox did so with Roc in the 1990s, so Undateable will at least have history on its side.
But the main reason live events work so well is either that their contents are very much in doubt — as with a sporting event — or because they have novelty on their side. Once something is live all of the time, is there any way the latter can still be true? Roc's live season — its second — trended downward in the ratings, for instance.



The show has done all right for itself on Thursdays — where it moved after a tenure on Mondays — but it hasn't dominated its Thursday-night competition like it did on Mondays. Indeed, it's failed to best the incumbent champion, ABC's Scandal, at all. (It draws more viewers than Scandal, but fewer of them are in the younger demographics advertisers are most interested in.) It also didn't help that the second season of The Blacklist was, by most accounts, a convoluted mess. (I tuned out long ago.) Still, it would be worth it to NBC just to be in business on Thursdays — if it could find anything else to air with Blacklist.
Does NBC really want to bet heavily on Heroes?
Part of the problem was that NBC didn't have anything to pair with The Blacklist on Thursdays this spring. America almost instantly avoided The Slap and Allegiance, so The Blacklist was stuck on an island by itself. NBC has the glimmer of a right idea for 2015-'16 by pairing the show with The Player, starring Wesley Snipes as a gambler who bets on crime.
But the lead-in to The Blacklist is a reboot of Heroes. And, look, Heroes was a hit show for a couple of years, but by the end of its four-season run, audiences were actively avoiding it. The show has a reputation for playing host to one of the most disappointing collapses in TV history. Does NBC really want to bet heavily on that?
To be fair, this problem bedevils every network not named ABC, but it's remarkable how NBC simply called uncle on the whole genre for the fall. Just one hour of comedy airs on the network's schedule — and that's on Friday, one of the lowest-rated nights of the week.
The premise for People Are Talking seems to literally be, "This is a show where people sometimes discuss things"
Undateable is a pleasant enough show, and it's particularly fun when the actors involved get on a roll (which might speak well to the series going all live, all the time), but it's also a really weird show to make the centerpiece of a network comedy lineup. And the premise for People Are Talking, as described by NBC, seems to literally be, "This is a show where people sometimes discuss things."
The real issue here is that NBC built its network brand on smart, funny comedies. It's not that a network can't shift its brand — and it's also not like NBC didn't struggle to launch new comedies in recent years. But ABC has found great success by returning to its core comedic identity of being the home for family comedies. Why has NBC had so much trouble doing the same?
Still, the audience at NBC's upfront seemed to respond warmly to midseason comedy Superstore — and the network was only too happy to play up the program's potential as a retail-set The Office. Maybe there's something there.
Greenblatt attempted to connect the dots between an upcoming miniseries about soldiers, the network's live production of The Wiz, and the series of Parton films by saying the lineup reflects the network's diversity. And maybe that's true. But I think it's far more indicative of NBC's desire to put on a spectacle, above all else.
The network is even reviving Coach — yes, that Coach
Even NBC's most "typical" programs are inflicted with some sort of big, buzzy element (outside of People Are Talking, which seems like a write-off). Blindspot has a woman covered in tattoos emerging from a duffel bag in Times Square. Heartbreaker features several dramatic reversals in its trailer. And the network is even reviving Coach — yes, that Coach — because at least you've heard of Coach.
The problem is that if everything is an event, then nothing is. NBC could turn The Sound of Music into a sensation, because there was nothing else like it on the air. But what happens when everything is a loud, flashy presentation designed to wow you as much as possible? Maybe that works, but even if it does, it's an easy strategy for other networks to copy, and then NBC will find itself in an arms race for the biggest, craziest idea. Network TV, to some degree, craves stability. NBC is betting that to stay on top, it can beat those odds.
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and foreign policy writer Amanda Taub. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Libby Nelson: Well, that was emotional.
Here I thought Betty returning to college was as close as the character was going to get to a happy ending — and instead, she ends up with fast-moving, terminal lung cancer. (On Mother's Day, no less.) It turns out that not everyone is going to make it out alive.
To me, this felt at first like a last, sudden injection of melodrama, if only because Betty has felt so disconnected from Mad Men's more central plots since her marriage to Henry. But I realize it shouldn't have. As you said in your recap, Todd, somebody was bound to get lung cancer. The fact that Mad Men prides itself on being a show where Chekhov's gun doesn't always go off doesn't mean its characters are immune to cause and effect.
Lung cancer has stalked Mad Men since its earliest days, the looming specter of the coming consequences of all that smoking. The very first episode, "Smoke Gets In Your Eyes," was about how you sell cigarettes in a world that's waking up to the idea that they have serious health consequences. If you'd told me then that someone would end up with terminal lung cancer by late 1970, it wouldn't have been shocking. It was the logical conclusion.
That Betty's diagnosis could still surprise me speaks to one of Mad Men's strengths: it's made its characters and this world so real that we sometimes respond as if we are living in it, too. Cause and effect is easy to see at the distance of decades — of course 15 years or so of chain-smoking is going to give somebody lung cancer — but harder to see from up close, when consequences to actions don't always follow immediately. When we've discussed Sally's relationship with her parents, we have never considered that one of them might die and leave her to become an adult much earlier than she'd thought.
And it's clear that it never occurred to Sally, either. She's long had a complicated, tumultuous relationship with her mother. Even her first reaction to Henry telling her that Betty wouldn't seek treatment was laced with disdain. But when you're a teenager, you take for granted that your parents will always be around to drive you crazy. Betty became an adult when her mother died, and she could barely cope; now it's Sally's turn.
Mad Men has always been preoccupied by the question of whether people can change. Matthew Weiner used to insist that it's a show about how they can't. But maybe whether people can change is the wrong question. No one lives in a vacuum. Times change, and circumstances change with them. Fundamentally, you might be the same person you've always been. But if the way you're treating the people around you changes, does that really matter?
Don Draper is still going on the lam, but now he's calling his kids from the road. Pete, all evidence in the contrary, still believes in the myth of a fresh start, but he's finally waking up to what he lost when his marriage to Trudy dissolved. And Betty is still brittle and vain, but she's realizing that the same qualities that make Sally difficult to parent — her independence, her unconcern with her mother's opinion — also mean that she's raised a daughter who will eventually be just fine without her.
There's so much else to discuss — I haven't even touched on Don's adventures in Oklahoma, or Pete and Trudy's reconciliation — but Todd and Amanda, I'll leave those to you. Has Don come to terms with his past? Are Pete and Trudy really going to live happily ever after in Wichita? Was it really necessary to spend our precious, waning Mad Men minutes with, of all people, Duck Phillips?
Read the recap, and come back tomorrow for thoughts from Todd and Amanda.
Previous episode's discussion
Next: Todd has a finale prediction
When The Good Wife debuted in 2009, one of its most exciting elements was the friendship between Alicia Florrick (Julianna Margulies) and Kalinda Sharma (Archie Panjabi). Alicia was a political wife making a second go at a law career, while Kalinda was an investigator with very few moral scruples. Together, they were an incredibly effective team.
Then, after the 14th episode of season four, they stopped sharing scenes together. BuzzFeed was the first to notice this trend, with an article pointing out how weird this was for a major ensemble drama, where just about everybody should be sharing scenes with just about everybody. But soon, Alicia and Kalinda's "separation" had become part of the show's lore. Whatever happened to prompt this decision, it seemed suitably weighty.
Panjabi opted to leave The Good Wife at the end of its current, sixth season, and thus the last few episodes have been marked by fans wondering whether the two characters would "reunite" before her exit. In a flashback scene in the season's penultimate episode, Alicia and Kalinda were meant to be in the same space together, but everything was filmed in a series of close-ups that never placed actresses Margulies and Panjabi in the same frame. (See Indiewire for more.)
The show's creators, Robert and Michelle King, promised Vulture that the season-six finale would feature one last scene where Kalinda and Alicia appeared in the same place at the same time, unmistakably.
Except when that scene finally aired late in the episode, it wasn't very convincing at all.
Here's the moment when Kalinda sits down next to Alicia. Notice how little it seems like the two actresses are occupying the same space:
Kalinda sits down next to Alicia, and they barely look at each other.
CBS
The most damning element here is the eyelines. Even if Alicia hates Kalinda, she would at least look at her former friend as said former friend sat down. But in the shot above, Alicia just sort of glances in the general direction of where Kalinda might be.
Then the scene settles into a bunch of over-the-shoulder shots of the two actresses, like so:
Alicia looks at Kalinda...
CBS
... and Kalinda looks at Alicia.
CBS
In and of themselves, these images aren't remarkable. The over-the-shoulder shot is one of the most basic in all of TV, because it allows a director to create the impression that both actors are present with only one of them having to be on the set. You might think you're looking at Kalinda or Alicia in the stills above, but you're actually looking at the obscured back of someone's head. It could be anyone.
The over-the-shoulder shot works for TV because it frees up actors to do other things. Producing television is so much about speed that any time an actor can be off at a costume fitting or working on lines or even just preparing for another shot is valuable.
But it also contributes to the sense that Margulies and Panjabi aren't sharing this physical space together.
As does this. Look at this red line:
Nobody crosses the line.
CBS
Kalinda crosses this line exactly once during the scene, in the few shots where we see the actresses together. When she does, she's nowhere near Alicia. (Notice, also, how weird Margulies's eyeline is in the screenshot above. She's just sort of looking at Kalinda's hands or something.)
What I'm getting at here is that this scene from The Good Wife's finale feels split-screened. It's a process that is usually employed to allow the same actor to occupy the same frame multiple times. In its most basic form, it involves an invisible line down the center of the screen that the actor doesn't cross, so that the two halves of the shot can be meshed together.
Once you know what you're looking for, split-screen becomes pretty easy to spot. The most famous variation on it that you might be familiar with is from The Parent Trap:

Of course, it's impossible to prove that Alicia and Kalinda's final scene together was split-screened, and neither CBS nor the Kings are going to say anything definitive. To admit it would be to essentially admit the long separation between Alicia and Kalinda was driven by something other than plot.
The chief evidence against the The Good Wife's possible use of split-screen in this scene is just how clunky it is. It looks hastily tossed together. If low-budget Orphan Black over on BBC America can convincingly put four different versions of the same actress in the same frame, surely The Good Wife could do a better job faking two completely different actresses sitting at the same bar.
But then you see something like this, the one time Kalinda and Alicia physically interact (by clinking their glasses together), and you realize that the actual glass touch happens in an over-the-shoulder shot (of Alicia's face), before cutting to a split-second after their glasses pull apart. The sound effect of the glasses clinking masks the fact that they don't actually touch in a shot containing both actresses.
Alicia and Kalinda clink glasses together ... but not quite!
CBS
C'mon. You have to admit it's a little weird.
Maybe Margulies and Panjabi were really there on set together, but if so, then why shoot the scene in such a way as to suggest they weren't? It's a bizarre creative choice, no matter which way you cut it, but that's in keeping with a Good Wife season that's felt as if it's been primarily driven by bizarre creative choices.
Update: Over at TV Line, Michael Ausiello has learned that the scene was, indeed, faked by using body doubles.
Look at these angry tweets sent to the director and screenwriter Joss Whedon, the man behind both Avengers movies, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, and a host of other beloved geek properties.
@josswhedon OINK OINK YOU MISOGYNIST PIG
I'm so glad @josswhedon won't be around to fuck up avengers anymore. No one wanted a retread of buffy/angel set to 'splosions.
@josswhedon ur movie is shit and you should feel bad. I'm glad you're out of this franchise. deserves better. U can't write a story for shit

There are many, many more collected in this Storify.
Whedon has been a geek hero for years now, but a few of his directorial choices in Avengers: Age of Ultron have caused many to accuse him of misogyny and call for his head. And his decision to quit Twitter in the aftermath of Ultron's release (in what was largely a quirk of timing) has only fanned the flames. But is this controversy his fault, or part of a larger problem with Marvel's inability to know what to do with its one successful woman superhero?
The controversy focuses on a scene partway through Avengers: Age of Ultron. Natasha Romanoff (Black Widow) and Bruce Banner (the Hulk) are taking a breather at a farmhouse owned by a friend. They're hiding out from the apocalyptic doom raining down around them and their fellow Avengers — the perfect opportunity to have a chat about their incipient relationship.
Marvel Studios
Marvel Studios
The scene in question involves Natasha Romanoff, better known as Black Widow, who is played by Scarlett Johansson. (Marvel Studios)
Natasha (who is played by Scarlett Johansson) has a bit of a crush on Bruce (Mark Ruffalo), and she's trying to convince him they would make a great couple. Bruce demurs, referring to the (quite literal) monster inside him. Natasha, impassioned, tells him all about her training as a master assassin and reveals her deepest secret: she was sterilized. Having a child might compromise her ability to kill people with impunity, her trainers believed.
It's the way Natasha relays this information that has caused many to question the way Ultron treats the character — and whether the film is ultimately uninterested in the emotional lives of women.
Says Natasha:
They sterilize you. It's efficient. One less thing to worry about, the one thing that might matter more than a mission. It makes everything easier — even killing. You still think you’re the only monster on the team?*
In the context of Natasha's overall character arc — she's a deadly assassin trying to atone for the awful (mysterious) things she's done — it's hard to argue that Natasha thinks she's a monster specifically because she can't bear children. She's never seemed particularly interested in starting a family, and her story is about seeking redemption, not about having kids.
To a lot of people, it seems as if Natasha, like so many female characters, is being reduced to her reproductive choices
But in the context of this scene, and specifically in the context of her relationship with Bruce (which culminates in the two of them discussing running away together), it's much easier to infer that Natasha is so sad about not being able to have kids that she thinks of herself as a monster. To a lot of people it seems as if she, like so many female characters, is being reduced to her reproductive choices.
For more on why many find this scene troublesome, check out Meredith Woerner and Katharine Trendacosta's excellent io9 post (which also wonderfully explains why it's silly to call Natasha's brief capture by the film's villain a damsel in distress moment), as well as a piece by Jen Yamato at the Daily Beast. For defenses of the scene and character, Alyssa Rosenberg of the Washington Post and Sam Adams of Indiewire are particularly astute.
But much of what's driving fans' anger isn't really about Natasha. It's about Joss Whedon in particular and, perhaps more important, the Marvel Cinematic Universe's general inability to launch a story about a woman superhero.
The cast of Avengers: Age of Ultron isn't exactly teeming with women.
Marvel Studios
When it comes to incorporating prominent women into its movies, Marvel struggles. The studio has Black Widow, as well as a standard-issue girlfriend character for each of its main heroes. One of these characters — Peggy Carter — has spun off into her own very enjoyable TV series. In fact, the company's record is slightly better on TV, where it also has Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., a show that boasts gender parity. But its TV shows have a fraction of the cultural impact of its films.
Black Widow has been four different things in four different movies
Marvel's treatment of Black Widow is frequently outright lousy. In the buildup to the release of Ultron, the lack of Black Widow merchandise prompted an outcry that grew to eventually include Ruffalo himself, and the reasoning behind the company's lack of said products was depressingly cynical. (Disney corporate, it turns out, assumes it has the young girl market locked down with its princess franchise.)
But Marvel also doesn't know what to do with Black Widow. As Darren Franich points out at Entertainment Weekly, she's a character who has been four different things in four different movies, with only Johansson's rock-steady performance holding all of these interpretations together.
Some of that is just a byproduct of the way serialized storytelling tends to twist characters to fit the story, rather than vice versa, but it's also well beyond what any of Marvel's male heroes deal with. And despite the obvious fan desire for one, Marvel has no plans for a Black Widow solo movie — and its first female-led superhero film won't arrive until 2018, after 19 movies led by men.
If Marvel were doing a better job of appreciating that there are superhero fans of both genders, the outcry might have been a minor spat, instead of a major storm.
But the outrage is also particular to Joss Whedon, the director of Avengers: Age of Ultron, and that's in part because of how Whedon has presented himself.
Joss Whedon (right) talks with TV host Chris Hardwick at an event celebrating the release of Avengers: Age of Ultron.
Personally and politically, Whedon is definitely a feminist. He frequently labels himself as such, he works with groups like Equality Now, and he's been a frequent public supporter of figures like Anita Sarkeesian, whose Feminist Frequency YouTube series has been the target of misogynistic outrage.
Whedon's work trends toward feminism, but his true great cause is storytelling
But artistically, things are more complicated. Whedon's work trends toward feminism, but his true great cause is storytelling, and he always prioritizes the latter if it makes for a better story. Whedon likes to tell stories that test the strength of communities, stories where horrific actions are often forgiven and written off because the larger community requires it. And though this is why his stories are so frequently good, it also has a tendency to clash with his fictional feminism. (More on this in a bit.)
As he told BuzzFeed's Adam B. Vary when explaining that he'd left Twitter to concentrate on his writing, not because he was being attacked by militant feminists (as some had assumed from his timing):
I’ve said before, when you declare yourself politically, you destroy yourself artistically. Because suddenly that’s the litmus test for everything you do — for example, in my case, feminism. If you don’t live up to the litmus test of feminism in this one instance, then you’re a misogynist. It circles directly back upon you.
Buffy the Vampire Slayer is one of the best TV shows ever made. Don't you dare say otherwise.
20th Century Fox
Buffy the Vampire Slayer is an early, terrific example of television establishing that women can be in control of their own lives and their own action shows, just as easily as men. The arrival of Buffy and Xena: Warrior Princess in the late 1990s signaled the arrival of the feminist action hero on TV. Whedon has specifically pointed to the landmark portrayals of Ellen Ripley from the Alien franchise and Sarah Connor from the Terminator franchise as touchstones.
Both Ellen Ripley and Sarah Connor were notable for the way they simply overthrew existing action paradigms by putting a woman at the center of both stories. Yes, their films were science fiction, but the characters felt like genuine breakthroughs. Alien, in particular, is structured in such a way that the emergence of Ripley as the hero is almost a twist ending.
Whedon's characters exist within patriarchal institutions designed to control them
It's easy to see how Buffy (and Whedon's later female action heroes) are inspired by this particular character type. But Whedon traditionally goes one step further. Instead of being menaced by science-fiction monsters, his characters have to exist within patriarchal institutions designed to control them.
Indeed, this is specifically the message of the final episode of Buffy, where the title character's triumph over evil itself isn't as interesting as her decision to endow every "potential" vampire slayer in the world with the power that was within her all along.

The slayers were once controlled by a male council of watchers; now they're not. Sure, part of the reason is the evil itself blew up the watchers. But it's even more important that Buffy decided the previous structure should be destroyed in the first place.
Similar storylines exist in Whedon's later sci-fi series Firefly (where a potentially superpowered girl is experimented upon and eventually goes rogue) and the much darker Dollhouse (where a woman is literally exploited by a sci-fi escort service before realizing what's happened to her).
Whedon's feminist storytelling is, thus, placed within the idea of institutionalized, patriarchal sexism that ultimately must be destroyed if women will finally get everything they deserve. And because he's a student of action cinema, he represents those forces literally, so that his heroes can physically kick those institutions in the face.
In this context, the Black Widow storyline becomes not about her mourning for the children she can't have, but about her creation by a system that cared nothing for her as a human being and everything for her as a game piece it could move around on the board. Her reproductive rights were violated in the most heinous way possible and her freedom of choice stolen from her.
As Libby Hill, with whom I share a marriage and a Netflix account, writes at Salon:
As much as it may look on the surface like Natasha is mourning motherhood, what she’s actually mourning is her ability to choose. It’s not about children; it’s about choice. What she has lost isn’t even so much her ability to have a family (as mind-bogglingly brilliant as she is, she, of all people, could find a way to procure a baby). No, what she mourns is her ability to fantasize about that "normal" life, the world opposite the one she currently lives in.
Because the program that created Black Widow is in Natasha's distant past, she's stuck trying to right the wrongs that were committed against her and the wrongs she perpetrated as an assassin. Even if we think Whedon literally meant that her sterilization made Natasha a monster, I'd wager it's because it was part of her training in dealing out death.
Whedon has frequently said that he finds Natasha the most fascinating of the Avengers. Viewed in the framework of his other characters, this makes a lot of sense.
Scarlet Witch (Elizabeth Olsen) is one of just a handful of other women in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.
Marvel Studios
Still, the scene in question is clumsily written, and the mere fact that it could incite such an uproar marks it as one that probably needed another edit or two.
But it also speaks to a growing divergence between Whedon's storytelling techniques and feminist genre storytelling in general. Whedon's onscreen feminism often follows a very basic pattern — take a character type traditionally played by a man and gender-flip it to see what happens. It's the same thing Ridley Scott did with Alien's Ripley (who was literally scripted to be played by a man).
But this method has been around for decades now. The "Hey! Look! It's a woman! Playing a part usually played by a man!" approach no longer feels transgressive. Instead, it feels like a trope in its own right, and one that verges on overuse. Meanwhile, fans are increasingly responding to characters who embrace the full spectrum of what it is to be a woman, from very feminine to very masculine.
Black Widow is essentially the only prominent female character in the Avengers franchise
Interestingly, Whedon is usually pretty good about this. All of his TV series (save maybe the Buffy spinoff Angel) feature a full fleet of women to surround their protagonists, who hit many of those other points on the full spectrum of womanhood. In that way, he can have his feminist action hero, while also offering plenty of other characters for people who don't particularly identify with the Buffy type.
But he doesn't really have that in the Avengers franchise, where Black Widow is essentially the only prominent female character. Yes, there's Cobie Smulders's Maria Hill and Elizabeth Olsen's Scarlet Witch (at least in the sequel), but neither character is nearly as important as Black Widow. That leaves Black Widow to represent nearly all women in a very guy-heavy story, and that, of course, is an impossible task.
Much of the cast of Firefly, another of Joss Whedon's shows and the one most tied into his theme of ad hoc communities, gathers at San Diego Comic-Con International in 2012.
The theme Whedon has been charting throughout his career with the most nuance is the idea of community. Every single one of his projects is about a small band of friends who find themselves facing off against a world that wants nothing more than to snuff them out. That even applies to the two most famous movie scripts he worked on, Speed and Toy Story.
What makes Whedon's work resonate with so many people is that his communities are often fractious, made up of individuals who do awful things and hate each other from time to time. But because the community takes primacy, friends are always welcomed back, even if they've become evil rage monsters. (This happens in Whedon's work far more often than you'd expect.) Forgiveness comes easily in Whedon's oeuvre; redemption takes more time.
But this means there are plenty of situations when Whedon's characters make decisions that jibe with the story but ultimately seem to undercut his feminist themes — particularly when the community's primacy requires forgiveness of the truly contrite above all else.
Forgiveness comes easily in Whedon's oeuvre; redemption takes more time
Consider, for instance, perhaps the most risible moment in these regards in the Whedon canon. Vampire Spike, frustrated at his inability to possess Buffy, attempts to rape her. She fights him off, and he eventually travels to Africa, where he has his soul restored by an ancient ritual. (In the Buffyverse, the soul is what separates humans from monsters.) Later, everybody agrees to forgive Spike and move on — despite the fact that he attempted to perpetrate a heinous crime against the group's leader.
This is the most obvious moment when Whedon's desire to push his fictional communities to the breaking point conflicts with his stated feminism (or even good storytelling). But he's often come across as too fond of almost punishing his characters in everything he's worked on.
One of Whedon's most famous quotes about storytelling explains that he wants to give viewers not what they want, but what they need. Broadly stated, this means not giving in to fan desire for certain stories but, instead, charting what might actually happen to these people in this fantastical situation. This has resulted in some of the best moments in television history, like Angel's turn toward evil on Buffy, but it's also resulted in some nonsensical ones, like when Xander and Anya broke up on that show mostly because nobody on it could ever be happy. Or, for that matter, Black Widow's reveal of her sterility in Age of Ultron.
At his best, Whedon is a master of ensemble storytelling that packs an emotional punch. But at his worst, he's constantly trying to subvert typical storytelling, to the degree that his efforts to not be predictable become their own kind of predictability. And in that clumsy Black Widow scene, it's this desire that's most likely gotten him in trouble again.
*Correction: An earlier version of this post misquoted the line from the film. The quote has been corrected.
WATCH: How popular perception shaped popular culture for women
"The Milk and Honey Route" seems like a downright strange episode of Mad Men until you realize what it's about. It employs a triptych structure, telling three completely separate stories that share a similar theme. This is a structure Mad Men has turned to often, most memorably in season five's lovely "Far Away Places" (the one with Roger's acid trip).
Most often, the show turns to this structure because it wants you to notice a particular idea or theme, something that will be important to the series going forward. And in the case of "The Milk and Honey Route," that theme is reconciliation — with the past, with a loved one, with yourself.
This is an episode where my comparison of Mad Men to Breaking Bad last week starts to feel downright eerie. Like "Granite State," the penultimate episode of that show, "The Milk and Honey Route" is one where the protagonist spends the entire episode several states and thousands of miles away from everybody else.
But where "Granite State" ended with Walter White certain he had to get his revenge, "The Milk and Honey Route" concludes with Don bidding farewell to both his old self (in the form of a Dick Whitman–esque young conman) and his new self (in the form of his Cadillac). He is finally just himself. And he seems happy about it.
But I'm getting ahead of myself.
Pete and Trudy are in love again? Sure.
AMC
Of the three reconciliations in the episode, this was the one I least bought — even if it made me the happiest. Given everything we know about Trudy Campbell, it just doesn't make sense that she would take Pete back with open arms, so they could go live the perfect family life in Wichita, Kansas.
Of all characters on Mad Men, Trudy is the one who seems to see the world with the clearest eyes. She even tells Pete this. She's able to remember the past as it actually was, not as she'd like it to be. Where Pete romanticizes his life with her, telling his brother that you think something will be fun until it's not, Trudy can remember the way he made her feel, the horrible feelings that accompanied the end of their marriage.
And yet if there's a core to Mad Men, it's the idea that even if the characters are unable to change, hope springs eternal for them that someone around them might change. We know Pete well enough to know that he will eventually drift into an endless, bored malaise and end up screwing up everything all over again. We know Trudy well enough to know she might forgive him and might not. And we know the trajectory of Sally Draper well enough to know that Tammy is going to have to piece together a childhood from the shambles of this pair's marriage.
But for now, they're happy. For now, he knows exactly what to say. When Pete leaves his ex-wife — soon, again, to be his wife — to return to the city, it's with the words "Good morning." A new day is here, like it or not, and it's brought some sort of hope with it.
"Good morning," Pete says.
AMC
(Worth noting: Don is frequently told in his storyline to eat or drink up, and then the episode cuts to Pete doing just that. Mad Men has always ruminated on how Pete is becoming Don in some ways, and here's another connection — as well as perhaps a subtle hint that Pete is unlikely to change very much.)
Betty is portrayed with almost angelic images throughout the episode. Here, she's an unlikely night visitor to her daughter.
AMC
The relationship between Betty Francis and her firstborn child has always been one of the hardest things to watch on Mad Men. Sally's been cast adrift, stuck with a mother who doesn't quite know how to love her and a father who loves her only sporadically. Both of her parents, stung by relationships with their own parents that were less than ideal, have far too much to work out to notice the young woman growing up right before their very eyes. That's often how it is.
Except now Betty Francis is dying, and that has a tendency to bring these sorts of relationships to a head.
I've seen fans of Mad Men grousing about how Betty's death is a cheap trick, designed to elicit emotion at this late date or, worse, to heap yet another awful thing atop a character who has suffered so much throughout the run of the show. But I think this is a lovely move for the series. Somebody was going to get lung cancer, just because of where we are in history and because of how much everybody smokes. And Betty getting lung cancer oddly crystallizes everything there is to know about her character.
There are two images that nicely highlight how much Betty has changed over the course of this series right in this very episode. In the first, Betty sits and listens as her doctor and her husband talk about how they're going to prolong her life. It's yet another important conversation that Betty is cut out of, even though it's ostensibly about her. But this time, the focus is on Betty, on the part where she's making up her mind.
Betty makes a decision, as bad news unfolds behind her.
AMC
Yes, she's going to die. She's not going to try to prolong her life. She's going to live as well as she can, as long as she can, but she's going to die. There's nothing to be done. And hopefully, she won't unnecessarily worry her children.
Except Sally.
It's tempting to read the scene where Betty gives her daughter the envelope containing end-of-life instructions as yet another cold moment between the two. Betty doesn't offer Sally any sort of comfort. She doesn't hug her. She doesn't even tell Sally that she loves her. This is another instance when Betty needs to be a good mom and is not up to the task.
But I don't read it that way at all. I think Betty entrusting Sally with these instructions is the ultimate compliment she could pay to her daughter, and the ultimate act of love Sally has been waiting for all this time. By handing Sally that envelope, Betty is saying, "I know you can do this. I trust you to do this. I believe in you to do this. You are strong, maybe even stronger than me." Betty fell apart when her mother died; she knows Sally will not do the same. Sally will be the one who holds steady when Henry and the boys crumble. Sally Draper is Betty's greatest legacy.
Which brings me to that second image.
Betty climbs the stairs, because it's what she has to do.
AMC
Betty climbs the stairs at her college, ascending slowly but surely, not an angel but as close as she might ever get. Why does she go to school when she knows how little time she has left? Why did she ever go in the first place? She wanted to. She needed to. She has become, in her own way, strong. And that's the greatest example she could set for her daughter.
Don confronts another ghost of his past life.
AMC
If there's a key to this episode, it's on Don's face at the end of the hour. The man who always seems to fret now appears to be virtually carefree. He's sitting at a bus stop, essentially everything he owns packed away in a bag from Sears. He just gave a young grifter his Cadillac, because why not? He descended into the hell of his past and emerged unscathed. He is finally a whole man, one who can return to New York and put to rights what little he has left to put to rights.
What he doesn't know, of course, is that his ex-wife is dying and that he will have to step up and be a father to his three children like never before. What he doesn't know is that some of his most cherished coworkers and friends (who mostly sit out this episode, which only featured five series regulars) are stuck in a horror show. And what he doesn't know is that Duck Phillips is back in town, and that's rarely a good sign.
Now, obviously, Don might never go back to New York. Next episode — the series finale — might end with Don sitting on the beach in Santa Monica, watching the tide come in. It might end with him joining a mission to the moon. Hell, it might end (as some suspect) with him becoming D. B. Cooper.
But I think it ends with him returning to New York, the closest thing he's ever had to a home. Don's arc has always been toward resurrection. He's a living man bearing a dead man's name, and, as such, he's always been slightly stuck between life and death, able to see the spirits of those who've come before. Yet he's so mired in his own past that he can't escape it to truly be reborn.
To be resurrected, though, one has to descend into hell. And that's meant going to McCann and embracing the sort of soulless work he always professed to hate. It's meant throwing all of that away on a whim and running from his problems. And it's meant metaphorically stepping into his past.
Don slips into the past.
AMC
The moment when Don enters the VFW benefit and sees the room decked out like something out of a World War II–era fundraiser (complete with burlesque dancer) is when I started to feel pretty confident about where this episode was going. History repeats itself endlessly here, horrible stories told over and over.
Don gets drunk with the men, tells his darkest stories, and is eventually "caught" by them. Don's nightmare that opens the episode — wherein a police officer finally catches up with him after chasing him for a good long while — more or less comes true. He is found out, even if the crime he's accused of isn't one he perpetrated.
So he confronts the young drifter who did take the money. And he gives it back to the hotel owner and exits this small town, a place that isn't so far removed from the one where he was raised, and he heads back out into the world, having shed all of himself.
The look on his face as Buddy Holly's immortal "Everyday" plays isn't Dick Whitman, and it's not Don Draper. This is somebody new. Finally.
Is that a smile on Don's face?
AMC
And if the "one month per episode" calendar is roughly accurate, that places the next episode right around Thanksgiving time. With all of Mad Men's resonances — both within the show and without — is there a more perfect season in which to end this show?
I can't wait.
Look at that smile!
AMC
As I'm traveling on business this week, I won't have time for the live chat. But I've left comments open, and I hope you'll chat amongst yourselves. I'll drop in as I can!
Previous episode
Netflix's latest original comedy series, Grace and Frankie, is an oddly airless thing. It's the sort of show that you might nod off to during a warm weekend afternoon, waking up a few episodes later to realize very little has changed but feeling sort of pleased by that fact. (You can watch the first season here.)

Rating
The two older women in the title (played by Jane Fonda and Lily Tomlin) learn that their husbands, Robert and Sol (Martin Sheen and Sam Waterston), are gay and having a relationship with each other. The series struggles to feel like it has any dramatic weight at all, constantly at threat of floating off into the ether. But that, paradoxically, is what makes it so good to take a nap to.

I don't know if I mean "TV that's good to take a nap to" as a compliment, but there's something weirdly appealing about a show so ephemeral. It floats right by you, best consumed in a couple of large gulps, as most Netflix shows usually are.
And somewhere around episode eight or nine of the first season, I realized that Grace and Frankie was a hangout sitcom about older people. In and of itself, that's not a bad idea, but the show is constantly defeated by some of the hangout sitcom's worst qualities.
But what do I mean by a hangout sitcom?
It's not so bad hanging out with Frankie (Lily Tomlin, left) and Grace (Jane Fonda), right?
Netflix
The progenitor of the genre is probably Seinfeld, though that show's tricky storytelling structure doesn't make it an easy fit with the many, many shows it has inspired. A more likely inspiration is Friends, a series where the drama rarely got too thick on the ground and the primary storytelling style could be best described as "easygoing."
That series also introduced the idea of romantic relationships between the characters acting as the primary engine driving conflict in the show. Just when viewers were tired of Ross and Rachel, it was time to switch over to Chandler and Monica, and then, later, Joey and Rachel. The show ran for 10 years based almost entirely on these various romantic permutations.
And lo and behold, Grace and Frankie's co-creator (with Howard J. Morris) is Friends' own Marta Kauffman. And similarly to her earlier show, Grace and Frankie eventually turns into a series of relationship plot lines, balanced with overwritten jokes that don't feel like the characters talking but, rather, the writers behind the series dropping those words in their mouths, straining to be as clever as possible.
The show Grace and Frankie is most like is probably the late-1990s sitcom Dharma and Greg, in that it's about a kooky free spirit paired with a more uptight, conservative type, but the show makes less of this than you might expect.
Because of its premise, Grace and Frankie can't really be about the characters trying out the many different romantic dynamics of their little group. Outside of Grace, Frankie, and their ex-husbands, the only other characters are the women's four children (two sons for Frankie, two daughters for Grace).
And even there, things have been set up to minimize potential romantic connections as much as possible. Grace's daughter Mallory (Brooklyn Decker) was once the obsession of Frankie's son Coyote (Ethan Embry), but that's all in the past. She's (seemingly happily) married now, minimizing the chances of potentially dramatic ruptures.
So despite the high-concept premise at the show's center, Grace and Frankie eventually settles into a low-level hum, rather than a pitched roar. It doesn't want to be anything too exciting. And therein lies the problem.
Martin Sheen (left) and Sam Waterston play longtime law partners who fall in love.
Netflix
In the first episode, Grace and Frankie learn that their husbands have been sleeping together for 20 years and now wish to get married to each other. To the show's credit, it mines some of the inherent tension in the two women feeling wronged, while still attempting to understand their husbands' wishes to be happy. In the show's best scenes, it finds a way to feel for all of its characters and treat them humanely.
The problem is that the series drops much of its conflict throughout. It's not that Grace and Frankie immediately forgive their husbands, but in trying to be at least somewhat understanding, the pair's anger is more of a low simmer than anything that boils over. Similarly, the two women — presented as polar opposites in the pilot — set aside their differences so quickly that the show barely bothers to examine the inherent conflict in their attempts to live together in the beach house their families co-own.
Meanwhile, their exes, Robert and Sol, are trying to finally live in the open together, but because of the show's weird, bifurcated structure (split between them and their ex-wives), neither story of moving on with life as an older person gets as much time to really breathe as it needs.
There are individual episodes where things land. The show's fourth episode, written by the great comedy writer Alexa Junge, takes place at a funeral and gives full weight to everybody's emotions, as does the surprisingly lovely seventh episode, centered on all of the characters watching the National Spelling Bee, whether together or apart.
On the whole, however, the show simultaneously feels like it has too much going on — in that there are eight regulars to service, all with their own season-long story arcs — and too little — in that there's rarely any real conflict between the characters. In the grand tradition of hangout sitcoms, most of the conflict is suggested, rather than outright presented to the audience, lest the breezy, beachside vibe of the show dissipate.
Even that might be okay if the show truly committed to its internal drama or came up with great jokes, delivered at a lightning-fast pace (which is how most good hangout sitcoms handle their lack of conflict). But Grace and Frankie tries to split the difference here, too, and that's what ultimately hurts it.
Still, the romantic chemistry between Sheen and Waterston leaves much to be desired.
Netflix
By far the thing that most gives Grace and Frankie its peculiarly airless feeling is the fact that it's obviously written by writers who are used to working with a live studio audience. The punchlines come on such a regular schedule (particularly in the earlier, weaker episodes) that you could set your watch to them, and there are frequent pauses after them, the actors holding for laughter that never comes.
The problem here is that the show is shot not like a stage play (as, say, Friends was) but like a movie (as many other hangout sitcoms, including New Girl and Happy Endings have been), and when a sitcom is shot like a movie, it has to compensate for the lack of audience laughter somehow. Most sitcoms do this by amping up the pace to blistering, then patching over the spaces between jokes with lightning-fast editing and quirky music or sound effects. This has the subconscious effect of making the audience feel like it should be laughing, even if the material isn't all that funny.
But Grace and Frankie can never decide if it wants to be an outright sitcom or more of an HBO-style dramedy. Of the two styles, it has more success with the latter. At the very least, there are some affecting scenes as the characters struggle to understand what their lives will be like going forward.
But a dramedy usually needs a stronger story hook, and Grace and Frankie's is simply endless repetitions of its premise, then a reminder that Frankie is kind of a hippie and Grace is buttoned-up. Any moments with genuine feeling are quickly undercut by lots of hacky jokes followed by a silence meant to be filled by laughter.
There are certainly worse sitcoms out there than Grace and Frankie, and it's pleasant enough to watch. But its ultimate effect is similar to the frequent sounds of ocean waves that play in the background of many scenes. It's simply a constant, undulating presence, one that eventually and ultimately lulls you to a peaceful sleep.
The first season of Grace and Frankie is now streaming on Netflix.
Game of Thrones' fifth season keeps the momentum going with its fifth episode, "Kill the Boy." Showrunners David Benioff and D. B. Weiss have diverged from George R. R. Martin's Song of Ice and Fire books significantly this season, for reasons that became clear in this episode.
"Kill the Boy" marked the halfway point of season five, and it set some big developments into motion. The episode was also full of Mother's Day tidbits, from a look at Daenerys's care of her dragons to Ramsay Bolton learning of his mother's tortured past. These are the moments everyone will be talking about (spoilers ahead).
HBO
The brutal ambush by the Sons of the Harpy that capped off last week's episode has left Ser Barristan dead and Grey Worm severely wounded. Daenerys quickly puts her foot down, bringing the heads of Meereen's prominent families to her pyramid basement to let her dragons scare someone into spilling the beans about who planned the attack. The dragons chow down on one of the family leaders before Dany has a change of heart and opts not to "overfeed" them.
Righthand woman Missandei subtly advises Dany to reconsider her decision about the slave fighting pits, instead of trying to coax confessions through intimidation. Dany does as advised, telling Meereen nobleman Hizdahr zo Loraq that she'll reopen pits, but only for free men — just before declaring that she'll marry him as a token of her earnestness.
In other Meereen moments, Grey Worm's near-death experience forces him to come to terms with his feelings for Missandei, and the two share a kiss.
HBO
The newly appointed Lord Commander of the Night's Watch is starting to flex his managerial muscles. Jon meets with Tormund Giantsbane, the wildling leader who's still in captivity after last season's Battle of Castle Black, to ask him to gather the remaining Free Folk and bring them to Castle Black to team up with the Night's Watch against the arrival of the White Walkers.
It's a tough request: neither side wants to partner with their sworn enemy, but neither can fight the White Walkers alone. Tormund agrees, on the condition that he be provided with Stannis Baratheon's ships, and that Jon come with him on the journey.
Jon's leadership — and his negotiation skills — are on full display here. He can't ask the wildlings or the Night's Watch to forgive each other, but he can ask them to cooperate to save their own lives.
The episode's titular quote comes from Maester Aemon during a conversation with Jon: "Kill the boy, and let the man be born." Jon is uncertain after his decision to cooperate with the wildlings is panned by his fellow crows — but by letting go of those concerns, he'll become the leader he needs to be.
HBO
Sansa, ever the reluctant Bolton bride-to-be, appears to have found some unexpected allies now that she's returned to her old stomping grounds. She's approached by a servant who whispers, "You still have friends in the North," and tells Sansa that if she ever needs help, all she has to do is light a candle at the top of Winterfell's broken tower.
The real turning point comes when Miranda, daughter of the town kennel master and Ramsay's current lover, introduces Sansa to Reek, a shell of the ill-fated Theon Greyjoy. Miranda is understandably salty about Ramsay and Sansa's upcoming marriage, so she's taken it upon herself to "educate" Sansa on what marrying Ramsay will entail.
It's the first time Sansa has seen Theon like this. Theon is quick to confess the encounter to Ramsay, who then makes a point of parading the servile Reek in front of Sansa as much as possible.
HBO
Though he has agreed to lend Jon his fleet of ships for the wildling extraction mission, Stannis doesn't have any intention of sticking around Castle Black. His eyes are on Winterfell, and he's readying his forces to take the place. Before he leaves, he consults Samwell Tarly on how to kill the White Walkers with obsidian, in light of the approaching enemy from beyond the Wall.
Meanwhile, Roose Bolton — who's now expecting a child with his wife — assuages Ramsay's fear of losing claim to the throne to the newcomer son. It's a twisted but tender moment of sincerity between the two of them, in which Roose tells Ramsay about the fate of his late mother. Father and son affirm their trust in one another and declare themselves ready to face Stannis's forces.
HBO
On the way to deliver Tyrion Lannister to his beloved Queen of Dragons, Jorah chooses to sail through the ruins of Valyria, the former capital home to the Targaryens. The kidnapper and captive get poetic about the fallen city as they pass between islands.
We recently saw Dany try, unsuccessfully, to reconnect with Drogon, the largest of her dragons, before he flew away toward the horizon. Just as Tyrion and Jorah start to discuss Valyrian history, they find themselves transfixed by the sight of Drogon flying overhead — leaving them distracted right as greyscale-ridden Stone Men jump into the boat and attack. It's our first time seeing the enclave of infected people, though we heard about it in last episode's heart to heart between Stannis and his daughter Shireen.
Jorah and Tyrion survive the attack, but not entirely unscathed: the final shot of "Kill the Boy" shows Jorah looking out over Valyria with a fresh patch of greyscale on his wrist. This makes Jorah a ticking time bomb. He doesn't have the means to undergo the Magic Johnson treatment like Shireen — which means he's either dead or doomed to become a rock-skinned savage.
Previous episode
Streaming is the sexiest way to listen to music in 2015.
It's also the most controversial, because artists are constantly pulling their music from various platforms or speaking out against it. But the practice is constantly evolving, because the laws around music rights are complicated and competition between services is tight.
Many within the music industry believe streaming is the future. It's the fastest-growing sector, and one of the few formats with a young user base.
But even though streaming appears to have a long life ahead of it, it has a long way to go if it's ever going to unseat the current standard, radio.
Most Americans don't use direct streaming platforms like Spotify, Rdio, and Tidal. Instead, they listen to music where Americans have listened to it for decades — on the radio.
According to a 2013 Pew Research Center report on audio listening in the US, almost 92 percent of the listening public listens to AM/FM radio. That percentage hasn't changed much over the last 10 years, even with the advent of the internet.
Meanwhile, 39 percent of Americans listen to online radio, and 23.9 percent listen to satellite radio. These stats measure the listening public of America, so obviously there is some overlap among them.
The biggest AM/FM radio company in the United States is iHeartRadio. According to its internal statistics, iHeartRadio owns 858 radio stations that reach 245 million people. That's a number that online streaming can't even come close to. Plus iHeart Media is both an AM/FM company that streams music over airwaves and an online radio company.
The company's data says people tune in to the radio eight times per day (which makes sense if you think about how much time the average American spends in the car), and that they consume 2,045 minutes of radio (both talk and music) per week. According to the Pew Research Center, people spend more time listening to the radio than they do surfing the internet.
"Music is a basic human need," Tom Poleman, the head of programming at iHeartRadio, told me. "That's why we work so well with the music industry, because radio is inherently social. Artists and radio have always had that fantastic symbiotic relationship. We can't survive without music."
And the data backs him up. AM/FM radio is the only form of listening that hasn't seen a significant drop in the percentage of users in the last 10 years. In 2001, 96 percent of US listeners consumed music via the radio. In 2011, that number was at 93 percent. By contrast, consumption of music via CDs dropped 13.5 percent in 2013.
But if you're looking for growth, it's solidly in online radio, not AM/FM. "The difference between how many people are listening to the radio and how many people are listening to us is huge. It's a delta of about 120 million people," Simon Fleming-Wood, the chief marketing officer for Pandora, told me.
And online radio certainly sees AM/FM as its main competition.
"What's in the crosshairs for us is getting Pandora built into car dashboards. The hours that are for Pandora to take are in broadcast radio," Fleming-Wood told me.
Companies that provide direct streaming, online radio, and satellite radio want their music in the car dashboard, because the car is where people listen to music the most. The average American commuter spends 37 hours a year just stuck in traffic, and Harvard Health Watch reported in 2007 that the average American spends 101 minutes per day driving. That's an insane amount of time, especially when you consider that almost 80 percent of Americans drive to work alone. It's a huge moneymaker, and it's why AM/FM radio has so much power.
Because radio has such a high listenership, it also has incredible impact on an artist's popularity. Rich Bressler, the CFO and president of iHeart Media, told me when we spoke in March that his company is "very optimistic about the state of the music industry." He didn't qualify that.
When I wrote about the future of music broadly in early May, one thing everyone I interviewed said was that while they knew music would be fine as an art form, they weren't sure it would continue to be stable as an industry. But the industry's problems have only increased the importance of radio. Artists simply can't leave.
"The artists and anybody you talk to in the music industry will tell you that unless the artist's music is on the radio, they're nowhere," Poleman told me.
Think about listening to your local Top 40 station. You might hear the same six or seven songs twice every hour. You might not like them or think they're good art. But they're certainly popular. That's strategic.
A company like Pandora can try to compete with that massive reach by giving artists more data to help them find their fans and plan tours better. Pandora can guide artists to a type of fame that's accessible and comfortable and can help them live and make art. But Pandora doesn't yet have what radio has — a massive and captive audience.
Radio also has far more money.
AM/FM radio has one of the sweetest deals in the music industry. It doesn't have to pay performers any money under copyright law to play any song it wants. Radio negotiated long ago that publicity was payment enough.
So radio has a larger audience than any other platform and has to pay less money to play music. On the surface, it should be safe — but the fact is radio is swimming in debt.
Though iHeart Radio is the big kid on the block right now, it's deeply, deeply in debt.
In September 2014, Billboard reported, "IHeartMedia carries $21.1 billion in consolidated debt, according to financial analyst firm Fitch Ratings, the result of a 2008 private-equity deal with Bain Capital and Thomas H. Lee Partners valued at $17.9 billion. "
IHeart says it has accrued this much debt because it thinks radio is stable and safe. The company says it has been looking at the long-term shift to digital and realizes it needs to get into that field as well. For years, iHeart had been called ClearChannel, which is a much less sexy name to put on a huge concert series or digital music streaming app. Rebranding as iHeart was just the first step in going digital.
But the digital landscape costs more money, and that's money that iHeart just doesn't have to give.
"We think that digital music provides the opportunity for all of us to make more money. We're looking to find win-win solutions [for] the artists, the music companies, and most importantly, the fans," Bressler told me.
Radio is still the biggest player in the music industry. It still calls the shots, and it's still by far the best place for artists to break out. But whether radio is a sustainable industry as iHeart's ad revenue drifts downward and streaming companies build out more robust advertising departments is yet to be seen.
Radio may be more stable than any other part of the music industry, but that, as it turns out, isn't a very high bar to clear.
NBC has announced its fall schedule for the 2015-'16 TV season, and it reflects the network's ongoing shift from a comedy-heavy lineup to one that features more serious fare, as well as some ambitious "event" programming.
Joining returning series like Law & Order: SVU, The Blacklist, Chicago Fire, and The Voice are three new hourlong dramas — including one that stars Thor's Jaimie Alexander (she plays Sif in that Marvel franchise) and another that stars Wesley Snipes — as well as a reboot of the sci-fi series Heroes and a new live variety show hosted by Neil Patrick Harris.
Meanwhile, NBC will air only two scripted sitcoms as part of its fall 2015 lineup, forming a new Friday-night comedy block: the returning Undateable, whose third season will consist of all live episodes, and freshman series People Are Talking. Further down the line, the network will attempt to re-up on laughter in early 2016 with a new version of the '90s sitcom Coach — in which Craig T. Nelson will reprise his starring role — and new sitcoms starring Rob Lowe and Eva Longoria.
Read on to find out what's airing when, and to watch trailers for all of NBC's new fall 2015 shows.
8 to 10 pm – The Voice
10 to 11 pm – New international thriller Blindspot begins when a beautiful Jane Doe (Alexander) is discovered naked (and zipped into a duffel bag) in Times Square, her entire body covered in mysterious tattoos. Naturally, she has no memory of how she ended up there, and the action begins when the FBI realizes that each one of her tattoos somehow represents a crime to be solved. Watch the trailer below:

8 to 9 pm – The Voice
9 to 10 pm – New (and groan-worthy) medical drama Heartbreaker features a sexy and stubborn female heart surgeon (Melissa George) who — surprise, surprise — is one of the only women in her field and always "operates on her own terms," in both her professional life and her racy personal one. Watch the trailer below:

10 to 11 pm (September through November) – New live variety show Best Time Ever With Neil Patrick Harris stars the former Doogie Howser/Barney Stinson/Hedwig in a collection of stunts, skits, musical numbers, and more. Watch a short teaser below:

10 to 11 pm (beginning in November) – Chicago Fire
8 to 9 pm – The Mysteries of Laura
9 to 10 pm – Law & Order: SVU
10 to 11 pm – Chicago P.D.
8 to 9 pm – Heroes reboot Heroes Reborn is a 13-episode miniseries about a new crop of ordinary people with extraordinary abilities. Jack Coleman, Jimmy Jean-Louis, and Masi Oka will reprise their roles from the original series alongside new-to-the-franchise Zachary Levi. Watch a short teaser below:

9 to 10 pm – The Blacklist
10 to 11 pm – New drama The Player is set in Las Vegas and centers on a former military operative turned security expert (Strike Back's Philip Winchester) who is drawn into a high-stakes conspiracy where wealthy gamblers bet on his ability to stop various crimes from playing out. Wesley Snipes also stars. Watch the trailer below:

8 to 8:30 pm – Undateable
8:30 to 9 pm – New comedy People Are Talking is about a pair of married couples who are both neighbors and best friends. Mark-Paul Gosselaar (Saved By the Bell, Franklin & Bash) stars. Watch the trailer below:

9 to 10 pm – Grimm
10 to 11 pm – Dateline
8 to 10 pm – Dateline Saturday Night Mystery
10 to 11 pm – Saturday Night Live (classic encores)
11:30 pm to 1am – Saturday Night Live
7 to 8:20 pm – Football Night in America
8:20 to 11 pm – Sunday Night Football
Spoilers for the newest episode of Game of Thrones are below.
This week's episode of Game of Thrones, "Kill the Boy," brings us to the halfway point of season five. By now, the strategy showrunners David Benioff and Dan Weiss are taking for adapting George R. R. Martin's most recent books has become clear.
For nearly every plot line, Benioff and Weiss are including ideas that exist in some kernel in A Feast for Crows and A Dance With Dragons. But they're reshaping these ideas, sometimes with only minor alterations but sometimes nearly beyond recognition.
Whether it involves the simplification of convoluted twists, the condensation of characters, or the addition of more drama and action, Game of Thrones is now more likely than ever to start with something from the books — and then take it in a completely different direction. Here's how the show did so this week.
(HBO)
The core of this week's action sequence involving Tyrion and Jorah is drawn from A Dance With Dragons. In it, Tyrion gets attacked by the "stone men" while on a riverboat journey through ancient ruins — but on the page, Jorah isn't there.
Book Tyrion takes this treacherous voyage before his kidnapping by Jorah. Instead, at this point he's still traveling with the characters Griff and Young Griff, who seem to have been cut from the show. It is Griff who saves Tyrion from the water, and is later revealed to have contracted greyscale in doing so. Though Jorah doesn't have an easy time of it in book five, he appears to be disease-free at the very least.
The setting is also different — in the books, the stone men don't live in the ruins of Old Valyria. Indeed, it’s said no one has ever visited that mysterious locale and returned. Instead, the stone men inhabit the ruined city of Chroyane in a part of the Rhoyne River known as the Sorrows.
Finally, book Tyrion doesn’t see Drogon flying overhead — not clearly, at least. In the fog, he briefly spots "a half-seen shape" above him with "pale leathery wings," but it disappears before he can get a better look.
(HBO)
This week, Brienne tries to get a message to Sansa Stark, as part of an effort to save her from the clutches of the Boltons. But while there's an attempt to save Ramsay Bolton's bride in A Dance With Dragons, neither Sansa nor Brienne is involved in any way.
First of all, book Sansa doesn’t marry Ramsay at all. Instead, the unfortunate bride is a friend of Sansa’s from the first novel, Jeyne Poole, who’s abducted and forced to pose as "Arya Stark" to solidify the Boltons’ claim on the North. The action at Winterfell is told entirely through Theon Greyjoy’s eyes.
An attempt to rescue this faux "Arya" is launched, but it doesn’t involve Brienne, who’s been tipped off by Jaime Lannister that Ramsay’s bride isn’t really a Stark. Rather, Jon Snow gets word of the planned marriage at the Wall and believes it involves his actual sister.
When Jon tells himself he can’t interfere, Melisandre offers him a way that, according to her, he can stay true to his vows of neutrality and still save "Arya." She unveils that King Beyond the Wall Mance Rayder, who had seemingly burned to death, had actually survived through a magical illusion. And Jon agrees to send Mance south to save his sister … but the problem, of course, is that she isn't even there. So the show's rescue mission is different in almost every capacity.
(HBO)
This week's wall plotline, featuring Jon turning to Aemon for advice and resolving to try and make peace with Tormund and the wildlings, is broadly similar to the books. It differs, though, in many details: events have been condensed, and some characters are in different places.
Near the beginning of A Dance With Dragons, Maester Aemon gives Jon the important advice to "kill the boy." But Jon doesn't seek him out because of his plans to make peace with the wildlings. That hasn’t come up yet, and by the time it does, Aemon is long gone — and so are Sam and Gilly. Jon sends them on a sea voyage to the city of Oldtown, so Sam can train as a maester at the Citadel. (This may still happen, considering the number of references to Oldtown we heard this week.)
Also, at this point in the books, wildling leader Tormund Giantsbane isn’t at the wall. After the battle at the end of A Storm of Swords, he was never taken prisoner and escaped with thousands of other wildlings. He’s missing for most of book five, but after Jon sends a different wildling ally to go find him and make a peace overture, Tormund finally shows up again near the end — with his army. The skepticism and anger from many men of the Night's Watch about the proposed peace with Tormund is from the books, but the character of Olly — Jon's steward, whose parents were murdered by wildlings in season four — is invented for the show.
There are more changes and omissions in Stannis and Melisandre’s departure this week. In the books, Stannis is set to ride into a Bolton trap — but Jon, despite his instinct that he shouldn’t get involved in the wars of the realm, counsels Stannis that he should attack the remaining Greyjoy forces instead to win support among the Northmen. Yet we hear nothing about the Greyjoys in this week's episode, and Jon doesn't revise Stannis's war plans. Book Melisandre, Selyse, and Shireen, meanwhile, decide to stay at the wall rather than go south with Stannis.
(HBO)
This week, Dany grapples with how to respond to the murder of her adviser Barristan Selmy by the Sons of the Harpy insurgents. Her ruthless lover, Daario, advises her to execute all of the former slave masters in Meereen. "Clean this city out," he says, "until the rats have nowhere left to hide."
At first, Dany seems to agree, having the heads of the noble families brought to her, and torching one of them with her chained dragons. But then she changes course — deciding instead to marry Hizdahr zo Loraq, a noble from the old families, to unify the city's warring factions. She'll also reopen the fighting pits, as the nobles desire — but for freed men only.
In the books, this betrothal happens for different reasons. Barristan doesn't die in the books, but beyond that, it's the nobles who suggest the idea of a marriage alliance. Dany is eventually forced to agree, in large part because she faces an external threat from various foreign powers.
At this point in the books, Dany’s Meereen is being blockaded by the city of Qarth, dealing with an influx of refugees from the collapsed city of Astapor, and, most important, preparing for an attack by an army raised by the city of Yunkai. So Dany resolves that she has to unify her city against external foes — and that she can only do that by making peace with the nobles, even if it means allying with former slavers.
(HBO)
We spend lots of time with the awful Boltons this week, as they prepare for Ramsay's wedding and the impending attack from Stannis Baratheon. A dinner scene that keeps topping itself in horrendous awkwardness is a particular standout, as Ramsay forces Theon to apologize to Sansa for killing her brothers (which he didn't actually do), just before deciding that Theon will give her away at the wedding.
The biggest difference here is, of course, the presence of Sansa, who goes nowhere near Theon or the Boltons in the books. But this episode also spotlights Ramsay's lover Myranda, an invented character for the show who's been hanging around since season three, acting as Ramsay's evil partner in crime. In the books, Ramsay has no paramour and certainly no woman who's an equal partner to him. Instead, he has a crew of thugs called the "Bastard's Boys," who aid him in his diabolical pursuits.
Previous episode
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by foreign policy writer Zack Beauchamp and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Zack Beauchamp: Andrew, the notion that Daenerys is being set up as the well-intentioned villain of the series is fascinating. I'll just note, apropos of nothing, that my first-ever piece for Vox was about how Daenerys is secretly George W. Bush.
Whether or not you're right about Daenerys, the fact that the theory is plausible points to something deeper about Game of Thrones — and suggests that we might all be watching it a bit wrong.
It's easy to forget, as we root for super-likable badasses like Arya and Tyrion, that George R. R. Martin's books were designed as takedowns of the kind of stylized violence you see in the dominant, Lord of the Rings–inspired type of fantasy novel. Martin, a conscientious objector of the Vietnam War, despises war and violence — and wanted his work to reflect that.
"The Tolkien model led generations of fantasy writers to produce these endless series of dark lords and their evil minions who are all very ugly and wear black clothes. But the vast majority of wars throughout history are not like that," he told Rolling Stone. "World War I is much more typical of the wars of history than World War II — the kind of war you look back afterward and say, 'What the hell were we fighting for?'"
But as viewers, we love Game of Thrones as a violent spectacle. We cheer the huge battles at Blackwater and Castle Black, and marvel at the show's beautifully staged duels. We get grumpy when episodes are slow and talky. We cheer when Daenerys torches the slavers and when, for a few fleeting moments, it looks like Oberyn is going to dismember the Mountain. This is all key to Game of Thrones' appeal.
And that's fine. It's not a problem like the "bad fans" who kept rooting for Breaking Bad's Walter White even as he became a monster. But I wonder if when we cheer for our favorite Game of Thrones characters to win battles and wars, we're being subtly blinded to show's underlying message: war is terrible, and all of this is pointless.
Think about it: do we have any reason to believe any of these people would be good leaders? The only two characters who actually seem suited to running countries, Varys and Tyrion, are by their own admission consigned to the shadows. We care who wins, because we want our favorite characters to come out on top. But from the point of view of your average Westerosi peasant, I doubt it really matters.
Do we have any reason to believe Any of these people would be good leaders?
And that shouldn't really be surprising. Monarchy is a really terrible form of government, after all; even if one king or queen turns out well, incompetents (Robert) and sociopaths (Joffrey) almost inevitably end up in charge at one point. There aren't any democrats in the world of Game of Thrones, so it seems like an awful lot of people are dying in a struggle over which rich and powerful family gets to be in charge of sticking it to the poors.
The show can't foreground this point, because the already dark series would end up unbearably bleak. Emphasizing the total hopelessness of the situation is part of what made the fourth book, A Feast for Crows, such a disaster.
Game of Thrones was wise to lighten things up a little. But it's hard to understand what's really going on screen, I think, without remembering that the series is adapted from a story about the horror and pointlessness of war. No matter what happens with the main characters, Game of Thrones is a tragedy.
Read the recap. Come back tomorrow for thoughts on episode five, "Kill the Boy."
Previous entry
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and political writer Dylan Matthews. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Libby Nelson: Dylan and Todd, I'm glad you brought up Mad Men's surrealist humor — one of the reasons I've loved the past few episodes is that they've all included moments, whether visual gags or verbal ones, that made me laugh out loud. But when you think back over the show's memorable moments, so many of them are at least a little surreal: Roger's blackface at the Kentucky Derby party, for example, or Megan singing "Zou Bisou Bisou," or Joan's painful, painted-on smile while she played the accordion for her husband's hospital colleagues.
Those indelible moments all come from parties, an ideal venue for Mad Men's blend of realism and surrealism. Parties, even and especially the best ones, are inherently balanced between order and chaos. Anything can happen when you combine interpersonal dynamics and alcohol. All of those surrealistic scenes are a dramatization of the moment when a party goes too far: everyone's having a great time, and then, very suddenly, everyone isn't.
A Mad Men party, in other words, is a single evening that encapsulates the mood of a decade. The popular idea of the '60s is that it was a long, drug-fueled, anything-goes good time — until, all of a sudden, it tipped over into riots and rebellion. Of course, all of those dynamics were building in the background. It's just that the nation's attention was momentarily distracted.
Another strength of party scenes is that Mad Men's characters, like most people, are more interesting together than they are on their own. One thing the show consistently does well is portray how relationships reveal different facets of our identities.
Whether people can change at their core is a question Mad Men wrestles with frequently. But it accepts that we do change all the time depending on whom we're interacting with. Don's relationships with Peggy and Sally are compelling because he treats them differently than every other woman in his life. The idea that personal relationships and business are inherently separate is a cliché — it's not personal, it's business — but as every scene in "Lost Horizon" makes clear, the wall between personal and business is pockmarked with holes.
That's particularly true for the show's women. The '60s are seen as a triumph for women, but important feminist victories in the workplace are still on the horizon, and this season has made clear that women at work are still forced to abide by very different rules. If Don's office weren't ready, nobody would try to make him sit in the secretarial pool. And while personal relationships could get Shirley a champion at McCann — Roger begs her to come along with him — they can't make advertising a comfortable place for an African-American woman in 1970.
The wall between personal and business relationships is pockmarked with holes
Joan's storyline shows that personal relationships are a double-edged sword. Women who came of age in midcentury America are a generation sliced into razor-thin distinctions based on the year of their birth. Joan was born too early for the feminist new world Peggy could usher in. But she also accumulated as much power as she could in the old regime, despite its inherently limited nature. Joan isn't only a victim of the patriarchy; she was also a collaborator. If you revisit any of her early conversations with Peggy, you're reminded that Joan was someone who accepted that looks were a woman's currency, and who embraced the sway she had over men. Her evolution into a high-powered executive who found her value in other skills has been one of the most profound changes any character has undergone.
In other words, Joan has a double dose of bad luck. It's easier to brashly stride into a new world if the old one has nothing to offer. In her threats to Jim Hobart, Joan mentioned two then-current feminist rebellions: the Ladies' Home Journal sit-in and the Newsweek gender discrimination lawsuit. Of the two, the Newsweek lawsuit is a better match for what Joan was trying to accomplish. It was filed by women who were frustrated that they were denied bylines and promotions and forced to serve the ambitions of their male coworkers. Their lawyer warned them, "You have to take off your white gloves." A history of the case published in 2012 was aptly called The Good Girls Revolt.
The Ladies' Home Journal sit-in by radical feminists, on the other hand, was a rebellion not just against male-dominated workplaces but against the roles men prescribed for women in society — including through advertising. In other words, they were rebelling against many of the values Joan represented in 1960. She can't become that type of rebel. In many ways, she was born too late.
Read the recap.
Bill Simmons is leaving ESPN, the New York Times reports:
Scoop from @RichSandomir: @BillSimmons is leaving ESPN. Story coming soon here @NYTSports.

"I’ve decided that I’m not going to renew his contract," ESPN president John Skipper told the Times' Richard Sandomir. "We’ve been talking to Bill and his agent, and it was clear we weren’t going to get to the terms, so we were better off focusing on transition."
Skipper expanded on that thought in an official statement posted on the ESPN Front Row website:
ESPN’s relationship with Bill has been mutually beneficial — he has produced great content for us for many years and ESPN has provided him many new opportunities to spread his wings. We wish Bill continued success as he plans his next chapter. ESPN remains committed to Grantland and we have a strong team in place.
Skipper also told the Times that talks with Simmons fell apart over more than money. Simmons was suspended from the network in the fall of 2014, after a podcast tirade against NFL commissioner Roger Goodell. And Deadspin reported exhaustively on the crumbling relationship between Simmons and ESPN.
Simmons's contract expires in the fall, and he will exit ESPN at that time. He first wrote for the network's website in 2001 and quickly became one of its most prominent personalities. His fan-centric brand of sports commentary grew to be the predominant form of internet sportswriting for much of the last decade.
Simmons was also instrumental in developing the website Grantland, which has become a major force in longform writing on both sports and pop culture, and in developing the sports documentary series 30 for 30, which has won both a Peabody and an Emmy.
Obviously, Bill Simmons's career is not over. Now that he's a free agent, he'll almost certainly entertain offers from many other media corporations and find somewhere else to share his thoughts. If one thing has become abundantly clear from reading Simmons over the years, it's that there's nothing he loves more than sharing his opinions on the internet — and he would be doing that whether he had a major media platform or a blog on Wordpress.
But Simmons does have a major media platform on which to present his thoughts. His work at ESPN and later Grantland (published by ESPN) has solidified him as one of the most influential writers in internet publishing history. Initially hired by ESPN as a freelancer, he quickly climbed the ranks of the network's writers to become one of the biggest voices on the site. (Full disclosure: I have written several pieces for Grantland in the past but have never met or spoken with Simmons.)
Simmons was passionate, funny, easily distracted by pop culture tangents, and devoted to Boston sports teams above all else. He turned his family and friends into recurring characters in his work, and he wasn't ashamed of openly rooting for certain teams or players. His sportswriting erased the line between objectivity and subjectivity — showing that a writer could still offer solid analysis or reporting while owning up to their own biases.
And if you think that sounds a lot like what would come to be known as blogging, you're not entirely wrong. Simmons's voice isn't usually included when discussing the prehistory of blogging, but it probably should be. His tone spread throughout the internet, and it was soon being adopted for everything from news to politics to (especially) pop culture.
More importantly, though, Simmons also realized that his sports column would only stay the exciting new thing for so long. He would have to diversify, something he began doing almost immediately. He wrote for a time on the late-night talk show Jimmy Kimmel Live, and he helped launch 30 for 30 as part of ESPN's 30th anniversary celebration in 2009. He also became an on-air personality for the network. All of these moves were built toward taking Simmons from a columnist to a larger media personality and even a brand.
Which is how he was so successful in launching Grantland.
If Simmons was important to the prehistory of blogging, then he was also important to what came next — the era when major media companies put money behind the most successful bloggers running publications of their own, publications like The Intercept, ESPN's Five Thirty Eight, and, yes, Vox.
Launched in 2011 with a dream team of writers, Grantland showed that Simmons had a good deal of editorial savvy to go along with his writing skills. One of the most important things any editor can know is what they don't know, and in every single hire for that initial Grantland team, Simmons was shoring up some particular area where his lack of expertise might show. He was, in other words, building a site where he could be a marquee name, but not the only one.
Grantland isn't the internet's most widely read site, but it's an incredibly influential and important one. It launched at a time when the idea of longform internet journalism was starting to take hold, and it executed such writing really, really well. Its pop cultural criticism was passionate and funny, eschewing the snark that passed for commentary on a lot of other sites at the time, and its sports journalism was agreeably wonky, pulling out obscure statistics to prove its point. But the site also published terrific profiles and reported features, human interest stories that never once pretended they were somehow less important than hard news.
The future of Grantland without Simmons is unclear. ESPN seems committed to continuing to publish the site, but losing an editor in chief and founder is devastating for any publication. However, if the site soldiers on, it will be because of what Skipper said in his statement — Simmons has built it into something that can stand on its own.
And assuming Grantland does survive and does continue to influence other publications throughout the internet, that will be as good a testament to his talents as anything else. Building your own career is one thing. Building a site that functions as long as you're around is another. But building something that can exist without you there is an achievement.
Caroll Spinney has played Big Bird on Sesame Street for 46 years — yes, 46 years. At 81, he has a lot of stories to tell about bringing life to the world's most famous talking bird, sidelining as Oscar the Grouch, and working with legends like Jim Henson.
He recently did an AMA on Reddit to promote the new documentary I Am Big Bird, and he was surprisingly candid about life as a bird.

Caroll Spinney at a convention in 2012. (Albert L. Ortega/Getty Images)
So how does Big Bird actually work?
The suit has some key elements (the Globe and Mail has a great diagram):
That's led to some discomfort. As Spinney told one redditor:
Most difficult while puppeteering? Well...often, the puppeteer's arm gets tired. Because the puppet has some weight. And also, besides the weight of the thing, is when you're singing a song, and some words are said over and over (as songs can do) - your thumb gets tired, and can slow down! So it gets, sometimes I've had some songs where my thumb went dead on live television. So that wasn't very comfortable. My thumb ceased to work!
The level of difficulty involved in operating Big Bird makes it crucial to consistently improve the puppet itself. And Spinney said the early models weren't very safe:
Well, the early Big Bird legs were made out of a fabric that had plastic in it - a dangerous fabric - and all of a sudden, a lamp smashed, almost hit me, and the 2,000 watt bulb had TREMENDOUS heat, and it set Big Bird's leg on fire! I looked down, I see flames coming up into the suit - because there's a hoop I can look down and see my feet - and so I said "I'm on FIRE!" and it was the beginning of the show, so Big Bird was strapped to me - and now he's on fire - so one of the camera men, they didn't have any extinguishers around (they do now) - Richie King, the camera man, he's no longer a camera man, but he saved my life by smashing out the flames with his bare hands!
The look of Big Bird changed, as well:
Well, when Big Bird was first on, he wasn't very good looking.
He didn't have any feathers above his eyes. The top of his head, nothing was there! Didn't look like there was room for any brain, really. Now the features are applied much more beautifully, and he's much prettier now.

Jim Henson in 1972. (Doug Griffin/Getty Images)
Most Henson company veterans are happy to talk about Henson's creativity and drive, and Spinney is no exception:
Well, he was a genius. He brain was always going a million miles an hour. And often we'd have lunch with him, and he wouldn't talk too much about what he was doing that day, he'd talk about future projects.
We had fun driving with him in London. He had a Lotus Elite, a very fancy 4 passenger Lotus car made in England, and it was painted Kermit the Frog green. He selected that because it had hidden headlights, and when you turned on the eyes, the headlights popped up, they were round like Kermit's eyes, and they had a black dot with a curved line going through it, just like Kermit's! And it was the EXACT same color of the Kermit suit, the famous earlier one. And Jim liked to drive fast.
In retrospect, it seems especially fitting that Spinney performed a tearjerking version of Bein' Green at Henson's funeral in 1990.

Spinney at the Daytime Emmys in 2006. (Robin Platzer/Getty Images)
Sesame Street superfans already know this, but Spinney is the voice for both Oscar and Big Bird (among other characters).
In his AMA, Spinney revealed that the two characters perform with one another by having their dialogue recorded separately. Spinney then operates Big Bird while another puppeteer pinch-hits for him with Oscar.
The two characters have very different roots — according to Street Gang, Big Bird was originally "just a big dumb guy who would bang his head on a door frame." And Oscar the Grouch was going to live under some trash, not in a trash can.
Of course, the portrayal of both characters has evolved over the years — Oscar ended up in his can for practical reasons (it was easier to control him with the can hiding him), and Big Bird adopted his lovably naive demeanor.

Big Bird in 2002. (Matthew Peyton/Getty Images)
Big Bird's an old hand at the White House, he's been on Oprah, and he's made corporate appearances. He's even conducted an orchestra.
But sometimes the bird has to improvise. When Spinney was asked about his toughest appearance, he revealed the dedication at the core of his performance:
Well, one time I was in Georgia, at a small TV station, surrounded by children - Big Bird was sitting on an ottoman - and his pupil let go, and left him with one eye with a black pupil, and one eye blank white! I saw what happened on a monitor, through some feathers we pulled off, and I said "Oh you better stop!"
Well, there I am on television, and one eye is blank. And I said "You can't show this! You'll have to stop." It wasn't live TV, it was on tape, and they wouldn't stop, so I said "I have to apply a new eye" and they said "No, we think it's funny!" and I said "No - It's barbaric - the kids are saying Big Bird's eye fell out!"
It's never just a puppet.
Because I feel that's diminishing what Big Bird does. He's not just a puppet.
You can read the rest of the AMA — including the truth about Mr. Snuffleupagus — here.
This article deals with major spoilers from Avengers: Age of Ultron.
Jeremy Renner isn't sorry. It was only two weeks ago that he and Avengers: Age of Ultron co-star Chris Evans called Black Widow — a.k.a. Natasha Romanoff — a slut, and quickly apologized after. On Monday night, Renner made clear that he wasn't really sorry when he appeared on Conan and tried to clarify that he isn't wrong when it comes to slut taxonomy.
"Mind you, we are talking about a fictional character and fictional behavior, Conan," he said. "But if you slept with four of the six Avengers, no matter how much fun you had, you’d be a slut. Just saying. I’d be a slut. Just saying."

Renner's buffoonish bit of crassness was part of Avengers: Age of Ultron's big opening week, and one that centered on the depiction of Black Widow's character. On top of Renner's stinkery was the complaint from fans who felt the film reduced Black Widow to a damsel in distress. Meanwhile, some people interpreted Black Widow's line "I'm a monster" as a troublesome view of womanhood.
However, slut-shaming a female Avenger 11 movies into the Marvel timeline is only surprising to those who haven't read the comic books that serve as the source material for the films. In that world, the battle to put female superheroes like Black Widow on equal ground with Iron Man and Captain America has been just as tough, and just as ugly.
Avengers: Age of Ultron and its predecessor, The Avengers, are pretty chaste as far as action movies go. There are no big romances. The Avengers' uniforms don't show much skin. And there's no sultry lovemaking — or sultry not lovemaking, or un-sultry lovemaking — either.
That's why Renner's comments don't really make sense. The Avengers may be a group of superheroes who are saving the world, but they aren't having any sex. You'd think there might be a wayward groupie or two, but all they've got is celebratory shawarma.
So where does Renner's assertion of "four of the six Avengers" come from?
Renner is probably not implying that the Avengers are having copious amounts of gay superhero sex. What he's insinuating is that Natasha slept with four of the six Avengers.
Since Thor (Chris Hemsworth) is committed to Jane Foster from the moment he appears on Earth, Renner's assumption is that Natasha has slept with Bruce Banner (Mark Ruffalo), Steve Rogers (Chris Evans), Clint Barton (Renner), and Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.).
In Age of Ultron, there is a romance between Bruce and Natasha, but it's never consummated. In The Avengers, we understand that Clint and Natasha have a connection, but the way Natasha refers to their kinship sounds more like a function of Clint helping her become a "good guy" than something romantic. And though Black Widow appears in Captain America: The Winter Soldier and Iron Man 2, there are never any sparks between her and her fellow Avengers (though Tony Stark would very much like for that to happen).
Saying Natasha is a slut is a disingenuous read of her character. But it also shouldn't matter whether Natasha has slept with one, four, or none of the Avengers, just like it doesn't matter that Tony Stark was sleeping with all of Los Angeles during his pre–Iron Man days. In Marvel movies, there are many more lines and jokes written (though often not shown) about Tony's sexual conquests than Natasha's.


What makes Renner's "observation" so cutting is that he's part of the team. He isn't some random fraternity brother making small talk at a party. There's a lot of weight to his words, since he's part of the project. And there's seemingly a disconnect between the movies he's making and the movies he thinks he's making.
Avengers: Age of Ultron isn't just the latest Marvel movie; it's also a culmination of 50 or so years of Marvel comic books. From the colors of Iron Man's suit to Thor's long-winded speeches, these decisions were made long ago by men like Stan Lee, Jack Kirby, Roy Thomas, Steve Ditko, John Byrne, and many more. And their creations have lived on and inspired the creators and artists — the majority of whom are men — who've come after them.
During the Comics Code fallout of 1954, a time in American history when comic books had their content censored, publishers strategized and began marketing their books to teenage boys, their largest market. And that's part of the reason female heroes like Black Widow, as well as villains, were often sex objects, damsels in distress, or sexualized damsels in distress. They were women written and created by grown men — many of whom were good guys, but who were also raised in a culture rife with sexism — for consumption by teenage boys. This would get worse in the hypersexualized '90 era of comic books.
"Historically, women were expected to use manipulation and subterfuge to express themselves and get their needs met"
The way women were portrayed in comic books in the '60s is embarrassing. Some were marginalized, like the Invisible Girl (now the Invisible Woman), spending most of their time swooning, fainting, or being held prisoner. Others, like Carol Danvers — a.k.a. Captain Marvel — were ogled as if they were expensive cars.
And then there was Natasha, a beautiful woman who was a danger to men.
Black Widow makes her first appearance in 1964's Tales of Suspense No. 52. Comic book legend Jack Kirby drew the cover of that book, and in big, bold letters Natasha was introduced as Iron Man's "gorgeous new menace":
(Marvel)
Natasha looked a lot different back then. In that issue of Tales, Kirby drew her with delicate features, and she only wore dresses and gowns. Each time she appeared in a panel, plenty of attention was paid to her looks:
(Marvel)
There's a stark difference between this Natasha and the one we know today. In her initial appearance, she didn't fight. She stayed out of the fray, manipulating Tony Stark with her looks and double-crossing him. She embodied the femme fatale trope, with a dash of the anti-Russian paranoia sweeping the US at the time. All Natasha really had going for her was her looks.
"Historically, women were expected to use manipulation and subterfuge to express themselves and get their needs met," comic book writer and creator Kelly Sue DeConnick told me in March, as we discussed the portrayal of women in comic books and pop culture at large. DeConnick's observation certainly fits Natasha.
"And then, because history is hilarious, they were punished for it," DeConnick said.
We'd later learn that in the comic book industry, mending the damage from these punishments is a difficult task.
You can still see traces of Natasha's earliest incarnation in the Avenger we see on screen today; she's a good liar, and she can't be trusted. These qualities make her a pretty annoying villain, but they're valuable when she's a spy on your side. Her change of heart from an agent of Mother Russia began in Amazing Spider-Man No. 86 (1970):
Amazing Spider-Man No. 86. (Marvel)
John Romita, the artist of that issue, had a background in romance comic books. His heroes looked like movie stars. And Romita gave Natasha a Brigitte Bardot makeover — her lips were plumped up and poutier, her hair was longer, and her cheekbones could cut diamonds:
Amazing Spider-Man No. 86. (Marvel)
Romita also gave her a new costume, a black catsuit:
Amazing Spider-Man No. 86. (Marvel)
It's a sexy outfit, but it's neither obscene nor gratuitous in the way that a lot of overtly sexualized women in the comic books of the '90s were. It's also sensible and streamlined for battle, unlike the skin-baring armor bikinis and spandex worn by other female heroes like the character Angela or Power Girl.
Costumes are an integral part of the superhero mythos. Iron Man's costume is where his powers come from — it's how he saves the world. Superman and Batman's costumes and logos are symbols of hope and heroism. Female characters' costumes define whether the characters are anything other than sex objects.
Is a high-cut leotard practical when it comes to flying through space? Do chest cutouts serve any real purpose? Is a bikini bottom really the best choice for a ninja? To understand the way women in comic books have been depicted throughout history, particularly the '90s, we must look at Natasha's peers:
Gen 13 No. 1. (Image)
The fact that Stan Lee wrote Natasha as designing and creating her black catsuit costume for herself was a big move for female comic book superheroes at the time. It showed that Natasha was in control of her image, and her choice to wear a bodysuit seemed logical. She had a lot of agency relative to other female characters, and she was miles ahead of those who just arrived on the scene in their revealing costumes without any real explanation. While Natasha wasn't immune to being sexualized, she was, in ways (again, relatively), more independent than her peers.
Since its initial modifications, Natasha's visual portrayal has remained largely the same. But her personal story has been anything but static. The character's history is full of espionage, ballet, false memories about ballet, genetic engineering, a husband whom she helped kill, unrequited love with Daredevil, a romance with Clint Barton/Hawkeye (their relationship was much more explicitly a romance in the comic books than in the movies), a protégé whom she terrorized, the KGB, and biotechnology. Her only constants have been a sense of identity, the search for "truth," atonement, and a haunting loneliness.
In 2014, Natasha was given her own solo comic, written by Nathan Edmonson and drawn by Phil Noto. It's as fantastic as it is beautiful. And what Edmonson and Noto do so well is really explore the idea of Natasha's worldview — that she wants to find peace for the things she did in the past:
Black Widow No. 1. (Marvel)
And the possibility that this may never happen:
Black Widow No. 1. (Marvel)
Black Widow's solo comic is part of Marvel's bigger push to tell stories featuring its female and minority characters. With characters like Widow, Captain Marvel, and Ms. Marvel leading the way, and after long stretches during the '80s and '90s when female characters were objectified by their writers and creators, women in the Marvel universe have finally become part of meatier, fuller stories — the kind of stories their male counterparts have received for years.
These characters have the arduous task of digging themselves out of a hole their previous writers have put them in. And that's a large part of why people are protective of these female and minority characters and expect more from Natasha's writers as well as from Marvel.
Black Widow and other female Marvel characters' recent progress is what makes Renner's "joke" frustrating. It's also why some fans are irritated that Natasha's role in Age of Ultron can be read, at least by some, as that of a damsel in distress.
"But isn’t it weird that, by the final action sequence, Black Widow’s main role is the same role as Pepper Potts' in Iron Man, or Jane Foster in Thor: The lady who helps her man become a hero? " Darren Franich wrote in Entertainment Weekly.  "He also saves her life, and then makes the executive decision to disappear — to protect her, I guess?"
I'm not sure I entirely buy Franich's argument. Natasha gets the Vision body to the team. She also saves Hawkeye in the opening sequence. While she does turn the Hulk into a hero, it's a savvy move, because there's no way the movie's final battle could be won without Hulk. And when Ultron captures her, she saves herself and alerts the team to Ultron's location by MacGyvering a code so the rest of the Avengers can find her. It's a much bigger role than just cleaning up after the boys.
The real failure of Natasha's character happens when Natasha and the rest of the Avengers are at Hawkeye's secret farmhouse. It's a scene where Bruce Banner, Natasha's sudden love interest, is getting out of the shower and, for some reason, the spirit moves him and Natasha to spill their guts about love. She tells him that as part of the Black Widow program, she was sterilized on her 18th birthday. And then she utters the line, "I'm a monster."
That's been interpreted as Natasha saying that women should have babies, or that having a baby is something all women want. Or the idea that female sterility is somehow "monstrous."
io9 wrote:
She can’t just be the coolest aunt, or have made the valid choice that, as an assassin and spy, maybe kids are not in the cards for her. Or even the more radical choice that she just doesn’t want them. No, she can’t ever have babies, so her life is ruined. She is an incomplete woman. Of course, only Hawkeye has kids — although he has to have them on a secret farm.
That's totally valid. The way that scene was structured — with the focus on Hawkeye's children and secret life — Natasha's feelings could be construed in that way. But I think there's a point to be made that Natasha's feelings of "monstrosity" also stem from being experimented on and taught how to kill. The writing in that specific scene simply wasn't tight enough to convey that idea.
It would be easy to sweep away Renner's idea as one man's opinion, but there's evidence that it's not just Renner who sees Natasha as a character defined by her looks and what goes on in her bedroom.
The Daily Dot's Gavia Baker-Whitelaw did a roundup of reviews of Captain America: Winter Soldier in 2014, and found a number of critics who defined Scarlett Johansson's performance by what she was wearing.
Baker-Whitelaw wrote:
Bear in mind that most of these quotes are the only description of Scarlett Johansson’s performance in the entire review.
In the New Yorker, Anthony Lane wrote, "not to be left out, Black Widow repels invading aliens through the sheer force of her corsetry," while the Wall Street Journal’s Pulitzer-winning Joe Morgenstern complained, "Black Widow spends lots of time looking puzzled or confused." New York Times reviewer A.O. Scott referenced the 1960s British spy series The Avengers (no relation), writing, "those poor souls who cherish old daydreams of Diana Rigg in leather will have to console themselves with images of Scarlett Johansson in a black bodysuit."
This attitude is disappointing, because Black Widow carried that movie as much as Captain America but was still reduced to what she looked like and what she wore. It's not that different from Renner defining her by whom he thinks she's sleeping with.
What's also spirit-breaking is that Black Widow's role in Winter Soldier is the closest thing Marvel has gotten to a female-led movie. The first solo movie from Marvel Studios featuring a female superhero won't come until 2018, when Captain Marvel hits theaters. To put that in perspective, male superheroes and male-dominated teams like the Avengers will have 19 films before a female superhero has one.
Marvel's dearth of female superheroes — superheroes that can go toe to toe with the men on the Avengers — is why Black Widow and now the Scarlet Witch matter. It's why when someone calls Black Widow a slut, it matters. The comic book stories these characters are based off of are just now beginning to unravel the years of sexism woven into their creation. And their movie counterparts are, unfortunately, stuck fighting the same battle.
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by foreign policy writer Zack Beauchamp and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Andrew Prokop: Todd, you mused last week that despite Game of Thrones' increasing emphasis on Dany as the potential savior of Westeros, you think she might be "a feint on [George R. R.] Martin's part." I would take that a step further — I've long believed the next big twist ahead could be that Dany will become, effectively, the villain of the story.
It's difficult for many to imagine Dany breaking bad because she's been one of the series' most moral figures. Where most other characters have ignored the exploitation and abuse of the least powerful, Dany has actually tried to do something about it. She's been on a multi-season quest to end slavery!
But it's actually Dany's status as a moral and sympathetic person that could make her possible fall the most compelling and tragic. Because in the end, Dany still wants to conquer Westeros — and since season one, Game of Thrones has been presenting her with dilemmas about how far she'd be willing to go to get what she wants. These dilemmas are particularly acute because Dany, as the only character with three fire-breathing superweapons, has the capacity to do quite a bit more physical damage than anyone else.
Even before she had her dragons, Dany struggled with moral quandaries about the appropriateness of using violence and force. In season one, when Khal Drogo's Dothraki horde seemed headed toward Westeros, she saw the way they were rampaging through the villages in their path and ordered them to stop raping and pillaging. But this attempt at reform quickly led to her downfall — an angry Dothraki fought Drogo, leaving him with a wound that soon festered and killed him.
In season three, when Dany first visited Slaver's Bay, she was faced with a similar predicament, about whether to buy an army of slaves to aid her conquest. Again, she couldn't stomach the exploitation of the weak — so she freed the slaves and violently executed the slavemasters of Astapor. But after she had moved on and freed two more slave cities, she learned that a coup had taken place and deposed the new rulers she had installed. So even though it would have been more convenient for her to stampede on to Westeros, she decided to stay behind in the now-freed city of Meereen, to prevent it from falling apart in her absence — again, discarding expediency in an attempt to do the right thing.
But it's in Meereen that Dany has faced her toughest challenges yet. When her dragon killed a young girl at the end of season four, she was horrified — and responded by locking up her dragons because she feared what their destructive power could do to innocent life. Yet with the dragons in chains, the Sons of the Harpy insurgency is running amok, and has now killed Dany's most important adviser. Will Dany keep trying to build a new peace — or will she give in to her desire for revenge and let the dragons loose?
Surely, few viewers will shed tears if Dany torches the Sons of the Harpy. But if she brings this fiery new approach to Westeros, viewers' sympathies might shift. We've basically had to root for Dany for the past few years, since her opponents have been evil slavemasters. But there's a whole host of characters we already like whom Dany may eventually come into conflict with — and it may not be so clear that her victory will be the best outcome, particularly if she decides that some brutal dragon violence is the only way for her to win.
There's a whole host of characters we already like whom dany may eventually come into conflict with
What if Cersei is out of the picture by the time Dany arrives in King's Landing, and it's Margaery Tyrell and the docile King Tommen who are ruling? Margaery is no cruel dictator, and she certainly has a strong case for caring about the common people of Westeros, even if her charitable behavior is partly driven by political gain. Or what about Stannis Baratheon, who's heading for Winterfell before what he hopes will be an eventual reprise of his attack on King's Landing? At this point, Stannis seems wiser and more seasoned by his past failures — perhaps he, not Dany, is the leader Westeros needs. And then, of course, there's the possible heritage of Jon Snow...
Of course, the best argument that Dany will fulfill her expected role as a protagonist in a fantasy climax is the existence of the White Walkers. Game of Thrones' very first scene introduced them as an undead horde of ice zombies who apparently want to wipe out all life. It seems inevitable that Dany will fight them eventually, and that we'll be cheering for her and her dragons to come out on top.
But frankly, I think the story would be a lot more interesting if it wasn't about Dany's rise to an inspiring and inevitable victory. For Martin, who loves bucking readers' expectations, it's just too easy and obvious for the only character with three fire-breathing beasts to conquer the continent of Westeros and save the world. Turning a likable and sympathetic character into a villain who must be defeated is a much crueler twist, and one that's fit for the creator of the Red Wedding.
What do you think, Zack? Do you think we'll stay on Team Dany? Or will we eventually find ourselves rooting for her downfall?
Read the recap. Come back for Zack's thoughts tomorrow.
Previous entry
On the one hand, we know Twitter launched in 2006 and was created by American human beings.
On the other hand, what if it wasn't? What if what we call Twitter was actually invented in 1999 by Japanese wombats?
That's the inescapable conclusion one comes to when reading Womland, a deeply charming, surprisingly serene Japanese site exploring the population of wombats at the country's zoos, particularly the ones at the Tama Zoo.
Written by a frequent visitor to the zoo's wombat enclosures, the site is composed in a kind of terse poetry, each line working almost as a perfect tweet that a wombat might make, were a wombat to tweet. The text is accompanied by photos that will make you believe a wombat can be cute.
The wombats go on vacation. They celebrate Christmas. They hope you have a happy Respect for Senior Citizens Day. And all with their own brand of stark, lovely poetry.
Chewbacca the Wombat contemplates the ravages of age.
Womland
Some important wombat quotations, first on old age:
I still remember your cute round eyes when I saw you for the first time twelve years ago.You look like a young wombat though 12 years have passed since then.You don't look like a long living wombat, do you?I appreciate you living so long!
Chewbacca, in repose.
Womland
Now, on needing to sleep:
I was extremely sleepy in the afternoon on May 14th.I slept on the hay bed under the roof for most of the time.Though I got up a couple of times, I soon felt sleepy.What happened to me?
The wombats Crump (from left), Hiroki, and Chewbacca cruise down the Rhine River in Germany, a popular destination for wombat travelers.
Womland
On why Germany's Burg Katz (Cat Castle) should be called "Wombat Castle":
Judging by its appearance, we could even say that it is a Wombat Castle.The two steep roofs look like the wombats' ears,and the colour of the castle is similar to the wombats'.
Because its design does not appear to have changed markedly from 1999, Womland can be tough to navigate, but it's worth poking around to see what you can find. (For instance, here's a surprisingly depressing map of Japan's wombat population.) If nothing else, you will gain a new appreciation for wombats and their thoughts, which will provide perfect fodder for your new Twitter bot.
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and political writer Dylan Matthews. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Dylan Matthews: I'm glad I'm not alone in thinking that serious prestige TV is getting a lot less funny. I actually think The Americans gets a bum rap as humorless — Henry Jennings's recreation of "Mister Robinson's Neighborhood" is some of the best cringe comedy I've seen in years — but Game of Thrones is definitely of the opinion that Tyrion's occasional one-liners are all the levity it ever needs. The really bad offender here is Hannibal, a show I love — and know you do, too, Todd — but that couldn't tell a joke to save its life. It's a terrific psychological thriller, but there's a limit to how much you can develop characters when all of their conversations center around murder most foul.
And there are basically no shows in recent years apart from Mad Men that are attempting the Coen Brothers/David Lynch style of surrealistic dark humor that you isolate. It's definitely Lynch by way of David Chase, but for all of The Sopranos' dream sequences it could never pull off something as downright whimsical as the roller-skating sequence, or over-the-top performative like Peggy's strut down the McCann hallway.
I guess my big question is how pervasive this tone has really been on the show. Part of the huge fan reaction to "Lost Horizon" is due to the fact that Peggy's moments were just very well done and would impress on any show. But here, it felt like they stuck out more because they didn't feel like the show, because they seemed like a rare deviation from its usual understated (if you like the show) or dull (if you don't) tone.
Same goes for a lot of the show's previous flights of fancy. Remember "The Crash," where the staffers of Sterling Cooper & Partners get a mystery drug injected into their butts for some reason? Of course you do, because while the rest of season six bleeds together (some drama with Cutler, Gleason, and Chaough here, some Don romps with Sylvia Rosen there, etc.) its one deviation into surrealism sticks out.
Same goes for even less-dramatic examples: Pete Campbell boxing Lane Pryce, Don's California hallucination about Megan, Roger's marriage-ending acid trip, "My name is Peggy Olsen and I would like to smoke some marijuana." These stick out, in a good way, from the rest of the show. Twin Peaks, to pick a foil, isn't like that. Some episodes are weirder than others, but they all feel of a piece. The strangest scenes aren't aberrations. When Dale Cooper is in a red room with a backward-talking dwarf in "Zen, or the Skill to Catch a Killer," it doesn't feel out of place. Of course that's what Dale Cooper dreams about; what else would he?
It's not an accident that surreal Mad Men is a show populated mostly by non-Don characters
Trying to imagine a Mad Men where roller-skating Peggy was the rule rather than the exception is a fun exercise, especially in the early seasons. Betty's gradual realization that her marriage was trapping her would be played much campier, like a Douglas Sirk movie; Don's flashbacks would be much less literal and much more dreamlike (perhaps they'd take the form of literal dreams); characters like Pete would be either much more clearly villainous, or much more clearly oafs. It'd be a totally different show, in other words. The core of Mad Men is Don, and Don, for better or worse, plays things straight. It's not an accident that surreal Mad Men is a show populated mostly by non-Don characters like Peggy or Roger or high, tap-dancing Ken Cosgrove. Don doesn't fit into that world.
That's the best case for the "nine parts normal, one part weird" strategy that Matthew Weiner has opted for. By gradually ramping up the surrealism over the seasons, while keeping Don constant, the cultural and societal changes being depicted come into sharper focus. But the case against is evidenced in our reaction to "Lost Horizon." When that one part weird comes along, fans rejoice. It's a major part of what they — we — watch the show for. Maybe it's a problem, looking back, that it wasn't really a major part of the show itself.
Read the recap, and check back tomorrow for final thoughts from Libby.
Previous entry
"Gentlemen, raise your hands if you think that Amy Schumer is not hot enough to be on television."
Every generation gets the hero it deserves. The suffragettes had Susan B. Anthony. Women’s lib had Gloria Steinem.  And we have Amy Schumer, whose streak as feminist comedy hero continues unbroken with this pitch-perfect parody of 12 Angry Men.
The episode-long sketch perfectly captures the way men’s casual judgments about women’s appearance sound to women — while still being goddamn hilarious. Schumer does what she does best, by taking the subtext of our sexist society and turning it into text in the most in-your-face way possible. Anyone with eyes and a television can guess that the entertainment industry treats women's looks as their most important characteristic, but Schumer's characters go ahead and state that rule out loud, making it both funnier and impossible to ignore: "It's an undisputed fact that a woman's value is mostly determined by her looks."
Twelve male actors, including Jeff Goldblum, Vincent Kartheiser (a.k.a. Mad Men’s Pete Campbell), and comedian Chris Gethard, whom you may recognize from his recent turn as the "meninist" activist on Parks and Rec, gather to do their civic duty by debating whether Schumer is hot enough to be on TV.
The initial vote is nearly unanimous: 11 vote "not hot enough," but one brave soul holds out. Could she be hot enough for TV? He’s not sure. And so we are treated to a further 17 minutes of debate over the "evidence."
"Does she give us a ‘reasonable chub’?"
"Can we talk about facts, please? You're all talking about opinions. But there are facts that tell us — objectively — that this woman is not appealing."
"I'll give you facts! She's a filthy whore-mouth! ... That's not hot!"
They consider the crime scene: why would a "supposedly hot and fuckable girl" need a dildo like the one discovered in her dressing room?
"The dildo," they argue after it is brought into the jury room, "is pretty good evidence no one will pork her."
But slowly, the wheels of justice begin to turn: one by one, the men in the room begin to change their minds. The holdouts bully the men who admit they might find Schumer hot enough to produce a "reasonable chub."
And in this way, the parody captures the pressure that men face to publicly adhere to traditional standards of attractiveness — how the same norms that insist women be "fuckable" end up policing masculinity, as well.
One juror triumphantly pulls a matching dildo from his own pocket and proclaims it's something he uses with his wife, who is fuckable. (Kumail Nanjiani's character's response: do you just carry that with you, in case a dildo-based argument breaks out?)
Another references Natalie from The Facts of Life, who was not conventionally attractive. But, he bravely proclaims over the other men's jeering, when he was young he fantasized about having sex with Natalie and then "falling asleep with my head in her lap."
The tide suddenly turns. Kartheiser's character admits, under pressure, that if he left his glasses off and just saw Schumer's generalized "blondness," he might at least consider "a few exploratory tugs." Giamatti, previously a leader of the "not hot enough" faction, breaks down in tears when he realizes that he has not only a "reasonable chub" but a "full chub."
In the end, the jury finds Schumer "hot enough for basic cable." When the judge tells her the news, she stands up, face shining with pride and relief, and marches back to the jury room to get her dildo.
But of course, a man still needs to have the last word. The male judge watches Schumer leave, then speaks contemplatively to the camera.
"I'd give that ass a four."
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by foreign policy writer Zack Beauchamp and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Todd VanDerWerff: Zack, I dig your connections between this series and Star Wars, which is already a science fantasy to begin with. It's hard to escape the long reach of that franchise when you're doing anything genre-related nowadays, so it makes sense, too.
But I think there's one big connection you could tease out even more: as with Star Wars, Game of Thrones is about how children live in the world their parents have created for them.
When Andrew was listing characters who have been point-of-view characters in the books a few weeks ago, a lot of them were Stark children. In fact, the number is four, counting Jon. (The other three are Arya, Sansa, and Bran.) And even as these kids have seen their father, mother, and older brother killed and their family all but decimated, they're soldiering on, on the outskirts of society, waiting for the opportunity to return and declare themselves epic fantasy heroes.
Game of thrones is about how children live in the world their parents have created for them
Really, everybody on this show is dealing with parental issues. Tyrion feels guilt over the death of his mother (whom he never even met) and utter hatred of his father (whom he killed). Jaime and Cersei are driven, to different degrees, by the need to please Tywin. Daenerys is still marked by being the child of a man she never knew, while Jon's lack of knowledge about his mother haunts him (and also possibly points to the true secret behind this whole story).
That's why I keep coming back to the small scene between Stannis and his daughter, Shireen, which I haven't seen many people discussing. In a lot of ways, it's just a sweet scene meant to punctuate a brutal episode with something nice. Stannis's insistence that his daughter, no matter how scarred, is the princess and his child is one of the warmer moments we've seen from the character, and the stunned look on Stephen Dillane's face when she hugs him is worth the whole thing.
But it's also a sort of indication of what good parenting might look like in this universe. Stannis is a cold, distant father, but he knows the right thing to say when it counts. A lot of that is rooted in his own pride, but he's still there when Shireen needs him to be. That's not true for most of Game of Thrones' other characters, who are either orphans or might as well be.
The weight of legacies hangs heavily over the whole show, of course, but it feels as if it's more prominent with this season in particular. Now that Tywin's dead, there are no longer any great patriarchs or matriarchs in the Seven Kingdoms. (There's Lady Olenna, but she's so far off to the side that she needs to conduct her skullduggery in secret.) Mace Tyrell is ineffectual. Balon Greyjoy might as well not exist. And Prince Doran over in Dorne is defined mostly through inaction (which is cool but also does not a memorable character make).
In short, David Benioff and D. B. Weiss are adapting A Feast for Crows and A Dance With Dragons as stories about how you live in the world when you finally have to start cutting your own path through it. Many of these characters have defined themselves as the children of their parents for so long that becoming orphans can utterly wreck their previously structured worldview — as I would argue happened to Arya and Sansa. Or it can free them in ways they hadn't even thought of before — as when Tyrion finally broke free of his family name and headed east.
That's why I think it's good to have that scene between Stannis and Shireen, no matter how minor. There are functional family relationships in this world. They're just not as dramatically interesting.
Read the recap. Come back for more thoughts tomorrow.
Previous entry
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and political writer Dylan Matthews. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Todd VanDerWerff: One of the things I'll miss most about Mad Men are those surreal flights of fancy that make the show so much fun to watch. The more unexpected they are, the better.
That's what I loved about Roger playing the organ. I'm sure it was set up in some previous season or episode, and I'm sure if I went digging around for it I would find the explanation for Roger's musical genius. But I almost don't want to do that. It's so much better as this random side gag that comes out of nowhere with just three episodes to go.
It's that weird sense of humor that kept Mad Men going all these years. It's not exactly a new observation that the show is as funny as — if not funnier than — some of the best comedies on TV, but even in the show's most dour, repetitive stretches, it would come up with grace notes around the edges of the story, ones that played up the strangeness of the Mad Men universe.
What's been notable about the series as it's gone on is how much that approach has started to creep into the show's drama as well. The first season had a couple moments where some off-the-wall notion was played completely straight, but for the most part the first season's oddities were things like Betty gunning down pigeons in the backyard — important character beats but also moments that were clearly intended as dark jokes.
The show has gotten more daring about presenting these weird drama moments over the years, and it quite possibly culminated in "Lost Horizon," which is an episode so filled with these bits that Entertainment Weekly proposed, in all seriousness, that Don Draper picked up a metaphorical time-traveling Bob Dylan at the end of the episode, and I found the argument halfway convincing. Metaphorical time-traveling Bob Dylan? Sure! Why not?
I spent much of my first entry in this series talking about the final season's similarities to Breaking Bad's final season, but we could broaden that out to talk about how the two shows shared a similar streak of surreal humor. Breaking Bad took place in a Coen brothers–influenced world full of sick, dark humor. Some of its best moments were the sorts of grotesque — yet hilarious — sights that you couldn't see anywhere else, like a man's head being attached to a turtle.
Metaphorical Time-traveling Bob Dylan? Sure! Why not?
On Mad Men, however, this approach to storytelling has always felt special, because it's rooted in the sorts of things that happen to us in our daily lives. Everybody has that experience of walking down the street, then having their journey waylaid by some unexpected, slightly strange thing that happens. Mad Men simply heightens that sensation.
Not to bring everything back to that plane Don spots flying over Manhattan in this episode, but that moment captures so nicely the way that looking out the window can break up a humdrum day and make work seem that much more monotonous. This is a very good, small-scale example of how Mad Men approaches this storytelling method.
There's a history of sophisticated dramas using their surreal streaks to advance their stories in unexpected ways. The progenitor of this approach was probably the '80s hospital drama St. Elsewhere (a show that planted so many of the seeds that have blossomed into our current drama boom), but it really took off with Twin Peaks, where weird stuff happened almost as a matter of course. Sopranos showrunner David Chase was heavily influenced by Peaks, and his show consequently contained many weird moments and twists.
Yet this particular storytelling style seems as if it's dying out just a little bit. As much as I love The Americans, it's a much more deliberate show, with less room for flights of fancy. The same goes for Game of Thrones, which could break its carefully constructed fantastical verisimilitude if it got too weird. Then there are shows like Orphan Black, which seem to be constructed entirely out of weird story turns and, thus, cause them to lose some of their power.
When Mad Men ends, it won't be the end of this particular style of storytelling entirely — Rectify is pretty good at employing it — but it will feel like it's been significantly reduced on TV. I think that's because so many of our great dramas now are basically genre tales, and genre requires a certain amount of steadiness to keep from coming apart at the seams. But when this show goes, I'll miss the weirdest, most unexpected parts of it the most of all.
Read the recap, and check back tomorrow for thoughts from Dylan.
Previous entry
Next: Dylan dissects the show's sense of humor
On Tuesday, Ryan Gosling did something that sent the internet into a frenzy: he ate cereal.
For those familiar with the (surprisingly complex) lore of Gosling, this was a truly touching act.

For many people, Ryan Gosling chewing on cornflakes is just Ryan Gosling chewing on cornflakes. Why is a good-looking man eating cereal actually about grief and human mortality? Read on.
To fully understand why this video means so much, you have to go back to 2013, when a man named Ryan McHenry started creating Vines — short, seven-second videos — that featured Ryan Gosling's often stoic, closed-mouthed onscreen characters while someone tried to "feed" those fictional humans cereal.
It's actually better explained by watching the Vines:

Here's another:

Here's a YouTube compilation with even more:

McHenry's videos were very popular. Many of them got millions of plays.
"Part one and two were liked by friends, but part 3 made it to the popular page on Vine, that’s when my followers jumped from 8 - 180," he told Entertainment Weekly in 2015. "Then every video I released afterwards made the popular page and began building towards 10,000 followers. I’m just really happy that people around the world are laughing at them. "

Gosling is eating the cereal because McHenry, 27, died on Sunday. He had bone cancer.
Yesterday was my 10,000th day alive on this Earth and not one of you got me a card or anything...

Gosling talked about McHenry's death on Twitter:
My heart goes out to all of Ryan McHenry's family and friends. Feel very lucky to have been apart of his life in some small way.

Gosling's Vine is as silly and playful as it is somber and touching. McHenry made plenty of us laugh with his videos and touched a lot of people's lives. Gosling is making sure that we never forget.
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by foreign policy writer Zack Beauchamp and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Zack Beauchamp: Andrew, I feel like the spate of religious fundamentalism in the past few weeks isn't really supposed to tell us a whole lot about where these movements come from and what drives them. The Sparrows seem more like a force of nature than an actual movement; the rise of Red God in Essos actually seems like a fairly reasonable reaction to the fact that there are freakin' dragons flying around again.
I think these religious movements are, more than anything else, a vehicle to talk about change: what happens when the old generation dies and new movements with new ideas come to the fore. The issue isn't where the Sparrows came from. It's whether Cersei or Margaery, who both operate under the old aristocratic political rules, really understand what they believe or how to control them.
When the High Sparrow says, "We're all equal in the eyes of the Seven," he means it — as do his troops, who essentially committed treason by standing up to the Kingsguard and getting away with it. It's hard for someone like Cersei to grasp this kind of genuine belief, and my guess is she'll end up burned as a result.
In fact, a lot of this episode obsesses over political and generational change. Sansa is trying to develop a new kind of Stark politics in a radically different North. Jon struggles over which traditional Night's Watch oaths to keep and which ones to give up in an increasingly murky world. Ser Barristan — poor, sad, dead Barristan — reminisces about the good old Targaryen days just before his fight with a very new kind of insurgent threat.
This focus on change reminded me, of all things, of Star Wars.
This episode obsesses over political and generational change
It's a little weird to compare the two, given Game of Thrones' famously complex moral universe and Star Wars' division of the world into a literal Light Side and Dark Side. But Barristan's death, in particular, set up a clear connection. Barristan is an Obi-Wan Kenobi figure: the avatar of a seemingly lost moral code who guides the young, inexperienced Chosen One on the right path. Like Luke, Daenerys now needs to figure out her own path — and make the same kind of youthful mistakes on the way.
Game of Thrones and Star Wars also share an obsession with parentage and destiny. Barristan's monologue about Rhaegar Targaryen pretty heavily foregrounded the point: his reason for supporting Daenerys is, and always has been, that he sees her as heir to the rightful Targaryen tradition. But Daenerys is also the Mad King's daughter, as we see from her habitual quickness to anger and inability to right the course.
This episode also raised, yet again, the question of Jon's parentage. As a certain popular fan theory would have it, Jon is heir to the same Targaryen tradition as Daenerys (secret fathers raising a somewhat different Star Wars parallel). That may or may not be true, but it's fairly obvious that the nature of Jon's real family matters a great deal.
This isn't just true in a political sense — that is, whether Jon has a legitimate claim to the Iron Throne. It matters for how we understand Jon's character. Characters on Game of Thrones are defined, in large part, by how they relate to their family's traditions and heritage. Tyrion may have quit the Lannister clan, but he's had a tough time giving up on the family's cunning and customs (remember that crack about "always paying my debts" in the Volantene whorehouse?) Arya is trying to be a Faceless Man but so far can't really give up on her connection to the Starks.
Again, this is pretty Star Wars-y. By Return of the Jedi, Luke's character is defined by his link to Vader: to what extent, and in what ways, is he Anakin's son? Now that Jon is in a position of power, he seems to have a similar issue with Ned — but if he's actually someone else's son, the whole problem might get turned on its head.
What do you think, Todd? Is this Star Wars connection a stretch, or do they really have some views of family in common?
Read the recap. Come back for thoughts from Todd tomorrow.
Previous entry
Next: Todd on the show's influx of orphans
As this week rolls on, the broadcast networks (ABC, CBS, The CW, Fox, and NBC) will be making decisions on which new and old shows to pick up for next season — and which shows to cut loose, to live on only via assorted streaming platforms.
It's typically an exciting time of year for TV fans, but this year is a little boring because, for the most part, it's easy to predict which shows will and won't be renewed come the end of the week. For instance, Scandal isn't technically renewed yet, but it will be back.
However, there's one show that sits at the literal top of the bubble — to the degree that I would put its odds of renewal at literally 50/50. And it's this show that most deserves to be renewed to see where it can go in season two.
The show is ABC's sitcom Cristela. Here are five solid arguments in favor of renewal.
You almost certainly haven't noticed this, because you almost certainly don't watch live TV on Friday nights, but a show that started out as an intriguing little spin on the family sitcom has grown into a reliably funny series that deftly tackles some serious subjects. Cristela is the kind of show you might sample on Netflix because you've never heard of it, then realize you really, really like about 10 episodes in.
Centered on a thinly veiled version of the actual life story of comedian Cristela Alonzo, the comedy follows a young woman who's balancing living at home with her mother, sister, and brother-in-law with working an unpaid internship at a local law firm, in hopes of fulfilling her dreams of becoming a lawyer. It's not the world's most exciting setup for a sitcom, but in its execution Cristela rises above the typical fare.

As I wrote a couple of weeks ago, simply telling a story like this about someone who's a person of color or from a different social class than most TV characters (who have money to spare) can add so much to a series. Cristela stands as proof positive of this.
The show has turned everything from the clash between Cristela's working-class background and that of her fellow interns (who are better off) to the time Cristela's mother kept her out of a gifted program at school because she didn't believe Latinos should stand out in a crowd into grist for both big comedy and surprisingly sensitive drama. These aren't stories every other show is telling, and that leads nicely into the next argument for renewal.
Though Latinos are a growing population within the United States, you wouldn't really know it from watching TV. For the most part, the stories of Latinos in America are relegated to Univision, the hugely successful Spanish-language network that routinely beats other broadcast networks in ratings among younger viewers.

Cristela stands as one of just two broadcast network shows with primarily Latino casts. (The other, The CW's Jane the Virgin, has already been renewed for a second season.) The 2010 census found that 17 percent of the US population was Latino (America's largest racial minority), and that number only continues to grow. Even discounting creative questions of representation, it makes business sense to put shows on the air that reflect a growing segment of the viewing audience.
But the series boasts more than just racial diversity. Cristela is one of only a handful of current shows that focus on characters who don't automatically know they'll have enough money to solve all their problems. The blue-collar sitcom used to be a legitimate TV subgenre, but it's been on its deathbed for a while now. Cristela is, again, just different enough to stand out.
Though Cristela's ratings aren't terrific (it's only drawn more than 6 million viewers on two occasions — and one of those episodes guest-starred Roseanne Barr), they're also not so horrible as to merit instant cancellation. The show draws more total viewers than last year's occupant of its Friday-night time slot, the alien-themed comedy The Neighbors. But its viewership in the younger demographics that advertisers are most interested isn't as high. (Translation: Cristela has more total viewers than The Neighbors did, but more of them are older than The Neighbors' viewers were.)
One other caveat to an economic case to renew Cristela: ABC also doesn't outright own the show. Instead, 20th Century Fox does; it's just leasing the program to ABC for first-run airing, and hoping Cristela will eventually produce enough episodes to enter syndication, where the studio will make back its initial investment. (Here's a more thorough explanation of the syndication process.)
There's no immediately compelling economic reason to cancel the show
And yet if ABC wants proof that Cristela could still take off, it need look no further than the series that leads into it, Last Man Standing. That Tim Allen star vehicle hovered on the verge of cancellation for several seasons, before gaining serious traction with viewers this year in its fourth season (and boosting Cristela's numbers in the process). Shows like these two — which are filmed in front of live studio audiences — often take a while to catch on with viewers, for whatever reason. There's no reason to believe the same can't be true of Cristela, and the show's overall viewership numbers are already pretty good.
Thus, there's simply no immediately compelling economic reason to cancel the show, particularly as these sorts of sitcoms are generally less expensive than other kinds of scripted programming.
While every other network struggles to launch good comedies, ABC launched three this season, in Cristela, Black-ish, and Fresh Off the Boat. And while every other network struggles to create shows with diverse casts, all of the above (plus freshman drama smash How to Get Away With Murder) revolve around people of color.
Picking up Cristela to join the sure-to-be-renewed Black-ish and Fresh Off the Boat would allow ABC some pretty substantial bragging rights. That has to count for something.
Like all first-season shows, Cristela suffered some growing pains in the early going. Some of those stemmed from Alonzo, who was a standup comedian rather than an actress, and a little too fond of going a little too broad.
After a remarkably small number of episodes, however, Alonzo had the sitcom acting thing figured out. She was able to play both her character's punchlines and her dramatic moments with nicely sketched-in detail, and she became an able leader of an ensemble cast that gelled remarkably quickly. She appears in just about every scene, nearly all of which require her to land a big moment or two, and she nails each and every one. Even Cristela's dud episodes are sure to feature a big moment from Alonzo.
Cristela still has its flaws — the scenes set in the law office, for instance, are rarely as compelling as those in the family's home — but it's improved so rapidly and so strikingly in its first season that it's more than earned a shot at more episodes. C'mon, ABC. Give this one another chance.
Cristela's first season is available to stream on Hulu Plus.
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and political writer Dylan Matthews. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Dylan Matthews: Last week, I complained that the McCann takeover didn't feel like a dramatic enough change to justify the horrified reaction it generated in the Sterling Cooper & Partners staff. Could it possibly be that different? "Lost Horizon" feels like a direct answer to that question. To whit: "Yes, it can be 1960 again."
The takeover was always going to be harder on Joan than anyone else. Her situation in SC&P was sui generis, the kind of thing that's only possible in a small, tight-knit firm wherein she commands an unusual degree of respect (well, not enough respect for her colleagues to not prostitute her out, but enough to compensate her well for it). Her power came from knowing and being trusted by the other partners, and once they became mere employees themselves, that power evaporated. Even if the executives she worked with and for weren't sexual harassers, she was in an impossible situation.
That those executive acted like ... well, like Pete or Roger or Don would have acted in season one is only further reason to leave. That's hardly the only echo of the show's beginnings. As Todd noted in his recap, Don's office at McCann appears to be a deliberate echo of his office at Sterling Cooper in the series' beginning. The pitch Don's hearing when he absent-mindedly watches an airplane pass over the New York skyline is of the same nostalgic, heartstring-tugging tone that Don nailed for his Kodak pitch in "The Wheel." Conrad Hilton even gets a quick mention. (Remember when he bolted for McCann in season three?)
It's kind of a brilliant storytelling device. There's no necessary reason McCann should be as stuck in the past as it apparently is. But making it into the reanimated corpse of the original Sterling Cooper allows Matthew Weiner to plop season-seven characters into a season-one world and show how much they've grown. Season-one Joan endures sexual harassment as an occupational hazard; season-seven Joan won't put up with it for a second. Season-one Peggy was terrified and wracked with self-doubt; season-seven Peggy demands an office and then struts into it like a boss, wielding tentacle porn for good measure. Season-one Don pitches "the wheel"; season-seven Don is bored by a similar pitch and flees.
Making McCann into the reanimated corpse of the original Sterling Cooper allows matthew Weiner to plop season-seven characters into a season-one world
I'm so used to seeing Don get away with anything that I was barely fazed when he bolted. The man ditched Pete for days in California in season two with no consequences. Even his teary remembrances of a brothel childhood during the Hershey's meeting at the close of season six merely set him back temporarily. Less than a season later, he's back to being the Don Draper, the guy Jim Hobart has been trying to nab for a decade. Hobart spent 10 years trying to woo Don; are a few days — weeks, months — of AWOL Don really going to trump that?
So I was surprised to see people I follow on Twitter raising the possibility that this is where Don lands, that he ends up back in California, never to see McCann or his children or any of his paramours ever again. I assumed this was another one of his periodic existential tantrums, one that would resolve itself in time, just like all the rest. But I suppose that's not required anymore. The show could never have Don just up and leave on a permanent or even extended basis before; it'd effectively plop him in a totally separate plot line, disconnected from the rest of the show. It'd be like when Hannah Horvath went to Iowa.
But we're closing in on the finale, and with his fake niece Stephanie presumably still hanging out with her pot-dealing boyfriend and their baby in Oakland, Don does have family of a sort waiting for him out West. He has plenty to pull him out and not a whole lot of reason to stay (or, more accurately, Matthew Weiner no longer has much reason to make him stay). In a way, a Graduate-style ending in which he finally rebels for good and starts over in California — only to become just as ambivalent and fearful of his prospects there as he was in home — would get at the ultimate futility of Don's decade-long quest to fill the emptiness in his life. The problem isn't his surroundings; it's him.
Oh, and one more thing — am I right in thinking Roger was playing a Hammond organ, the preferred instrument of Steve Winwood, Gregg Allman, and Billy Preston?
Read the recap, and check back tomorrow for thoughts from Libby.
Previous entry
Next: Todd on the show's surreal streak
Live fast, die young.
That's the life of almost every Marvel villain in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Over the past seven years, we've watched Marvel develop the Avengers from the ground up. It's been like seeing a game of chess play out on the silver screen. Their evolution began in 2008 with Tony Stark, whose story became a gateway to introduce us to Black Widow, and then S.H.I.E.L.D. Thor, Captain America, Hawkeye, and the Hulk soon joined the fray. And in 2012, this chess game saw its first giant move when the Avengers finally came together on screen.
But what's been fascinating about watching these heroes grow is how disposable their villains have become. Villains like the Red Skull (Captain America: The First Avenger), Ronan the Accuser (Guardians of the Galaxy), the Mandarin (Iron Man 3), and now the titular singularity of Avengers: Age of Ultron are enduring foes in the comic books, but they all have incredibly short cinematic lives. As one of my readers pointed out on Twitter, these comic book juggernauts have become strawmen, vehicles to get us from one point in the Marvel universe to another, rather than fully fleshed-out characters.
This might be a reason why sequels like Iron Man 2, Iron Man 3, and even Age of Ultron haven't been as good as their predecessors. And conversely, developed villains like Loki (Tom Hiddleston) and the Winter Soldier (Sebastian Stan) have helped make Captain America: Winter Soldier and The Avengers so very good.
Age of Ultron ends with death. Vision, in his fresh pink skin, finds the last member of Ultron's robot army hobbling in the Sokovian mountains. This crippled machine is the last embodiment of Ultron's consciousness, and if it dies, Ultron dies. Vision and Ultron talk about humans, our flaws, our beauty. And the screen is then bathed in a bright yellow, the hue of the Infinity Stone lodged in Vision's forehead. It is implied that Vision destroys the robot (in a really beautiful way).
It's a great scene. But it also betrays the spirit of Ultron in the comic books.
The character's one constant in the source material, aside from his rampant daddy issues, is his ability to always evolve and return stronger than ever. He trades up to new bodies. He receives adamantium upgrades. In the Age of Ultron arc, he even manages to take over the world:
Age of Ultron. (Marvel)
And when he is seemingly defeated, as he is in Avengers No. 57, he gets an elegiac, Ozymandian finish:
This is how you write an Ultron death. (Marvel)
That doesn't happen in the movie, which goes pretty quickly from his birth to his dream of wiping out the world to his death.
If Age of Ultron is the last we see of Ultron, it will add another entry to the list of Marvel villains who barely transcend the title of "plot device" — a disappointment for a villain of Ultron's stature. It would also spell the end of James Spader's wonderful turn as Ultron's voice and personality. Spader gives the movie its crackle, stealing scenes with the dark timbre in his vocals and subtle inflections when the mood lightened into humor.
You'd have to go back to Tom Hiddleston's Loki to find a villain this charismatic. And that's a problem.
The endgame for Marvel's movies is for the Avengers to go up against Thanos. Thanos, in the comic books, is a purple-skinned megalomaniac who is seemingly invulnerable, blessed with super-strength and cosmic energy projection. He's after the Infinity Stones (gems in the comic books), which will give him even more power to achieve whatever he wants (usually the destruction of Earth or turning citizens of Earth and the universe into his slaves).
But all we know from the Marvel movies is that he's some big bad guy. We don't understand his motivations. In Guardians of the Galaxy, we learn some surface-level facts — that he has two adopted daughters (Gamora and Nebula), and that Ronan the Accuser is done playing second fiddle to him — but we really don't know what his plans are or who he is. Marvel still has three years' worth of movies to reveal more about him, but so far his character development has been meager.
And for Marvel's other villains, their opportunities to evolve have already passed.
Like Ultron, characters such as Red Skull and Ronan the Accuser played and are still playing integral roles in the comic books but don't feel particularly consequential in the movies. They all want to destroy the world. They're all very powerful. They're all nasty. And Red Skull and Ronan specifically are just there for two big fight scenes. There isn't much to them, or to Marvel's lesser villains like the Iron Monger and Aldrich Killian, other than those fight scenes  — a shame since the comic books deal with more complex themes and issues.
These Marvel villains don't have any personality traits beyond their evilness. It's uninteresting, but it doesn't have to be. Plenty of comic book villains want to destroy the world and rid it of humans, or of individual humans, but their reasoning and logic is usually explained by their experiences.
Ultron's first comic book appearance was one example of writers, creators and artists making villains as dynamic as heroes. Magneto, an iconic X-Men villain, is a Holocaust survivor — this crafts his worldview and utter distrust of humans. The Joker is determined to convince Batman that they're two sides of the same coin, and believes violence and horror form the avenue to convince Batman of this. Lex Luthor, in some incarnations, displays the egotistical side of a hero complex — saving the world becomes a selfish act. William Stryker and his Purifiers illustrate how religion can enslave, twist the mind, and breed hate.
It makes you wonder: what made Ronan so cranky? And why, exactly, don't Red Skull or any of these other villains have something a bit more complicated in mind beyond simply destroying the world?
With Ultron we get halfway there, thanks to Spader's booming voice and stunning scenes like Ultron's reveal in both Sokovia and the Avengers Tower. But certain elements are missing. And the most crucial of those elements is a relationship between Ultron and Tony Stark.
Ultron, we're told, bases his entire existence and endgame on Tony Stark, modeling his behavior, his personality, and his fears after the man. But we never see father and son share a moment together. There's a greater connection and relationship between Ultron and Jarvis than there is between Tony and his creation.
Nor do we really witness the dark depth of Tony Stark's fear that inspires him to create a system like Ultron. How much of Ultron was in place before the Scarlet Witch got involved? How much of Ultron is corrupted by the scepter? How have Tony's fears deepened from what we saw in the first Iron Man? What's been going on in his head since Iron Man 3? And how much does Bruce Banner know or not know about this program?
Filling in some of these blanks could have made Ultron more compelling and a more thoughtful character, but then he also might have been a character we'd have to hold on to for a little longer. Such a story might not align with the larger narrative that Marvel wants to tell.
Not all of Marvel's villains fit the one-and-done pattern.
More specifically, two of them don't, at least so far: Loki and the Winter Soldier. And it happens that these two characters are integral parts of two of the best Marvel movies — Avengers and Captain America: Winter Soldier — ever produced.
During Loki's first appearance in Thor, it's made very clear to us that this character cannot stand his brother. But we see why. We're made aware of Thor's (Chris Hemsworth) status as the golden prodigal son, coupled with Loki's desire to rule. What's more, the film is very much a story about family, nature, and identity; even though Thor is the hero, Loki provides the movie's brain and spirit. And Loki's desire to rule is later revitalized and realized in The Avengers.
Loki's development over the two films makes for a much richer, more textured story. It also makes him the best villain in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Sure, he's evil. But as with Magneto or the Joker, we understand what underscores Loki's motivation to enslave the human race. Kings need their servants, and since Loki can't ascend to the throne on Asgard, his greedy heart yearns for Earth.
Bucky Barnes — a.k.a. the Winter Soldier — is enjoying the same kind of development, but on a smaller scale. There is no world-breaking event concerning Barnes. Instead, his friendship with Steve Rogers becomes a lens for his villainy. Captain America: The First Avenger establishes Barnes's big-brother relationship with Rogers, and his apparent death. In The Winter Soldier, we find out he's been brainwashed and experimented on. And though he only appears in brief scenes in The Winter Soldier, the idea that Barnes may at any time snap out of his killing mode keeps the movie taut.
Barnes and Loki are examples of what Marvel's villains could be, if given the type of character nourishment they deserve. Loki has that Magneto-like charisma, and Barnes is a foil to the feel-good experimentation tale of Captain America. If all of Marvel's villains were as complex and riveting as these two, Iron Man 2, Iron Man 3, and Thor: The Dark World (Loki was a secondary character in this sequel) would be better films.
But perhaps that's not Marvel's ultimate concern. The company is building toward 2019, when Avengers: Infinity War Part II is due to hit theaters. The stories from now until then will interlock with one another, and will ostensibly ramp up to Thanos's big finish. But in order to have villains like Loki and the Winter Soldier, Marvel must invest in multiple movies — which would derail its agenda. And having recurring major villains also diminishes Thanos's potency.
Being able to dispose of villains left and right while Thanos lurks just across the horizon makes Thanos more grand — he's the one thing we and the Avengers should all fear. He's the Big Bad, and unfortunately for anyone who loves a good villain, these other guys will function as speed bumps until we get to him.
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and political writer Dylan Matthews. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Spoilers for Breaking Bad's final season follow.
Todd VanDerWerff: On the one hand, Joan's storyline in "Lost Horizon" does something I hate: it turns everybody from McCann Erickson into a braying jackass, devoid of nuance or subtlety. They're all pretty much evil, because the final arc of episodes needs one final Big Bad for the good folks of Sterling Cooper & Partners to face off against. (Leave aside for a moment that this has not traditionally been a show about the characters battling evil. Just go with me here.)
I've been thinking a lot about other TV show's final seasons in connection to this episode, obviously, and a big realization struck me just now as I sat down to write about this: McCann Erickson fulfills roughly the same function in this final arc of episodes as the evil neo-Nazis did in the final eight episodes of Breaking Bad. They're there to be so much worse than our regular characters that we root for our regulars to succeed one last time.
While I think the final stretch of episodes of Breaking Bad is, on the whole, really, really good, I have some significant problems with it, and many of those problems boil down to the Nazis. To me, it almost felt as if the show blinked when it came time to finally make Walter White the villain of the show, because it needed viewers to stay invested in him somehow, when both Hank and Jesse were right there, ready to take up the mantle of protagonist (perhaps together) and bring Walter down.
Now, to a degree, that's not what Breaking Bad creator Vince Gilligan and company were up to. They were looking into Walter's soul to see if any glimmer of decency remained, then eventually found it. But by contrasting Walter against literal Nazis, they stacked the deck so far in Walter's favor that they almost had to find what they were looking for.
One of the show's major themes has always been the ways women navigate around a power structure invented by men
This is sort of what Mad Men is doing with McCann as well, but it doesn't bother me nearly as much. It's a little narratively convenient, sure, but endings of stories almost always are. For one thing, McCann has always been presented as opposition to the various iterations of Sterling Cooper through the years (all the way back to season one).
And for another, one of the show's major themes has always been the ways that women navigate around a power structure invented by men to get what they want. McCann's open, bald-faced sexism lacks anything approaching nuance, but it also sort of makes sense within the story Mad Men has always been trying to tell (and it's not as if open, bald-faced sexism has never existed).
But where you, Libby, and other women I know are terrified for Peggy as she walks into that office, I think she's going to be just the person to tear apart the old boys' club that runs McCann. Matthew Weiner has always used Joan and Peggy as examples of how being born even a few years apart can make a huge difference when it comes to opportunities, and I think he's carefully contrasting the way Joan doesn't get what she wants with how Peggy gets the office she demands.
Remember how the episode seemed to be setting things up for Peggy to get shunted down to the secretarial pool, a horrible regression to her earliest days on the show? Well, she hangs out with Roger, she holds out for an office, and she finally gets it. She might have to work on a drafting table while her furniture is located, but she's at least on the right track.
The tragedy of Joan — which can be a little overwhelming at times — is that she was born just late enough to see some of the benefits of feminism but just early enough to see too few of them. She's forever watching doors shut just ahead of her, while women younger than her climb on board the train toward wherever they're going. Mad Men has always positioned Peggy as a trailblazer, someone who might kick that door open, but it's also never lost sight of the women who spotted the trail in the first place — women like Joan.
That's likely cold comfort to her as she heads out into a world where she has no job, much less the fulfilling job she had invented for herself at SC&P, but seeing Joan leave hell while Peggy enters it, guns blazing, struck me as perhaps the most forthright example yet of the show playing with this theme.
I'll let Dylan deal with your other questions, Libby, except to say that if Don's cross-country voyage doesn't somehow bring him to California, I will eat my hat.
Read the recap, and check back tomorrow for thoughts from Dylan.
Previous entry
Next: Dylan on how McCann recalls the show's past
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by foreign policy writer Zack Beauchamp and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Andrew Prokop: Todd, I have to say I wasn't a huge fan of this episode's ending fight sequence, in story terms.
Barristan Selmy is a character the show has almost entirely ignored for two years. So, as you say, the heartwarming tale he told Daenerys at this episode's end was about as subtle as McBain's partner planning to sail the world in his new boat, the Live-4-Ever. Of course he would then immediately walk into an ambush from a horde of faceless goons. George R. R. Martin tends to avoid cliché in his battle scenes, but this whole sequence reeked of it.
In another post, I speculated about why the show decided to kill off Barristan, who's still alive in the books. Basically, I think the showrunners worried that the Meereen material from A Dance With Dragons was too boring, so they decided they'd better kill somebody. But when you're killing off a character you've never properly developed anyway, and sacrificing the potential to actually make him someone viewers care about, it seems like a missed opportunity. Hopefully this bloodshed will take Dany to some interesting places in future weeks, as she weighs how to respond.
The heartwarming tale Barristan told Daenerys was about as subtle as McBain's partner planning to sail the world in his new boat, the Live-4-Ever
The other significant developments in this episode take place in King's Landing, where Cersei empowers the High Sparrow to raise an army, which subsequently goes rampaging through the city targeting sinners — including busting up a brothel owned by Littlefinger for the second consecutive week. This time, they murder a man patronizing a male prostitute inside, before eventually arresting Loras Tyrell.
Scenes in Littlefinger's brothels have been an omnipresent, and frequently ridiculous, feature of Game of Thrones for years, helping lead to the Saturday Night Live joke that a 13-year-old boy was on set to "make sure there are lots of boobs." The parody wasn't very far from reality — director Neil Marshall later disclosed that he was urged to add nudity to a scene by an executive producer who claimed to represent "the pervert side of the audience." Still, these scenes have become so ordinary that it's actually unsettling to see the Sparrows turn them upside down with brutal violence.
A gripe I have here, though, is that the show doesn't do a good job of explaining why all these fundamentalists have suddenly appeared in the city, and where they've come from. The books have a clear and simple explanation: it's the war. The devastation of the countryside and the peasantry, and the various atrocities committed, has fueled a turn toward religion.
"They never would have come to the capital when Tywin was alive," Kevan Lannister said in the season premiere. But in realitym it was Tywin, with his civilian-massacring henchmen like the Mountain and his ruthless tactics like the Red Wedding, who birthed the sparrows.
The best part of this week's King's Landing material was, easily Lena Headey's portrayal of Cersei. After a season and a half of grieving, we finally get to see the queen mother's infamous smirk again, as she delights in her own apparent cleverness and scheming, with complete indifference to the pain it's causing others.
We see this early on, as Cersei and her new confidant Qyburn try and fail to stop grinning as she gives Mace Tyrell a one-way ticket to Braavos with his very own Kingsguard escort. And then again later, as she patiently explains to her son that she simply can't free Ser Loras, because she's not the one holding him. Cersei is infuriating, but when she's in the spotlight she's definitely one of the show's most compelling villains.
Another Lannister also finally breaks free from his depression to have a bit of fun. Tyrion's now a prisoner of Jorah Mormont, and he spends his first scene and the start of his second with a gag in his mouth. He eventually annoys Jorah enough that the gag is removed.
Then, in just over two minutes, he figures out his captor's identity, that Jorah's now in bad standing with Daenerys despite his representations, and the exact reason why he lost her good graces. It's great to see Tyrion's brain working again, even if he's perhaps a bit too eager to show off his own cleverness, earning a blow to the head from Jorah for his efforts.
Zack, what do you think about the sudden rise of religious fundamentalism in Westeros? And, as a fellow book reader, how did you react to the bloody demise of Barristan Selmy?
Read the recap. Come back for thoughts from Zack tomorrow.
Previous entry
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and political writer Dylan Matthews. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Libby Nelson: With just two episodes to go, things are starting to feel final, all of a sudden.
Shaking up Mad Men by dissolving Sterling Cooper & Partners into McCann Erickson so close to the finale seemed like a challenge. It's hard to get invested in new characters, new seating arrangements, and new conflicts when we know that their lifespan is so limited. But it seems we're not expected to care much about McCann, because, well, it doesn't seem like anyone at Sterling Cooper intends to do much work there.
Instead we got a long, elegiac farewell to the Sterling Cooper & Partners offices, complete with the mesmerizing organ stylings of Roger Sterling. Like almost everything else in Mad Men, "Lost Horizon" is about characters adapting to the way their world has changed. And they adapt about they way we expected: Peggy charging into the brave new world, Joan and Roger struggling to cope, Don adopting a new identity and running away.
The three major storylines felt thematically connected but tonally distinct: Joan's battle with McCann seemed far away from the whimsy of Peggy's roller-skating and Don's eerie late-night road trip with the ghost of Bert Cooper. Mad Men's more surreal flights of fancy are divisive, but Peggy gliding around the old office on roller skates while Roger noodled on the organ in the background was a good example of the genre. I could also watch the sequel — her sexy, badass march into McCann — forever.

How badly are we going to miss Mad Men when it’s over? pic.twitter.com/BAMywOyr6G


But after Joan's rocky transition to McCann, I can't help but worry that Peggy is striding right into a buzz saw. Barring a last-minute plot twist, it seems like this is where Joan's professional arc ends: with McCann essentially paying her to go away. It's a victory in that it will make Joan very rich. But we've known for a long time that Joan doesn't work just for the money — as Peggy pointed out a few episodes ago, she can afford to quit — and if this is the end of her career in advertising, it's a sad, hollow ending.
Joan is arguably Mad Men's most tragic character. (Even Betty Draper Francis seems to be getting a happy ending, going back to school and even sharing a friendly moment with Don.) For all her looks and competence, Joan is constantly thwarted. She's changed dramatically over the course of the series, from the queen bee of the secretarial pool to a wiser, kinder, astonishingly competent businesswoman.
But every man she encounters seems to see her only as a vehicle for his own desires. Her ex-husband is an incompetent doctor who raped her. Her coworkers encouraged her to sleep with a client to land the Cadillac account. Her last proposal of marriage was from a closeted gay man. Joan knows what she wants, and she pursues it, but it always eludes her. This is true until the end: she's denied both the moral high ground of a high-profile lawsuit and the financial satisfaction of getting the money she's owed.
In other words, Joan's life is an extended argument for Why We Need Feminism. But for all the wealth and power she's gained, she's in some ways still imprisoned in her 20s, when she was the sexiest woman in the secretarial pool. Joan's first task at Sterling Cooper was to instruct Peggy on how to fit in and succeed, and she'd bought into the patriarchy fully.
A decade later, she's still degraded and not taken seriously based on her looks, as if she's paying for how she presented herself in her early career. Maybe the full flower of the feminist movement just came too late for Joan. Or maybe Mad Men has a happy twist for her hidden somewhere up its sleeve.
Todd and Dylan, what do you make of Joan's storyline? Where do you think Don's cross-country quest is taking him? And how did Roger get an organ, anyway?
Read the recap, and check back later today for more thoughts from Todd.
Previous episode's discussion
Next: Todd on McCann's role in the final episodes
Today is Star Wars Day, according to some marketers who work at Disney. You can celebrate by choosing your own lightsaber color.
This chart shows all of the known colors in the Star Wars universe, along with what we know about the characters who typically use them.

Every lightsaber color in the Star Wars universe. (Anand Katakam/Vox)
Research for this chart comes from the excellent breakdown by EvanNova95, as well as from Wookieepedia and StarWars.com.
In the Star Wars universe, lightsaber colors are determined by the force of the Jedi using a lightsaber. More specifically, as noted on the official Star Wars site, lightsabers come from Kyber crystals, typically found in the frozen caves in the world of Ilum, which acquire color once attuned to a specific Jedi. (There are exceptions, however: At some points, lightsaber crystals were replaced by Kunda stones. More significantly, Sith usually use red-hued synthetic crystals.)
There are some caveats: Many of these colors come from different aspects of the Star Wars expanded universe — movies, books, television shows, comics, and video games — and there may well be inconsistencies between the large number of writers in these various genres. Some accounts of how lightsabers came about may not allow for unusual colors that pop up elsewhere.
Likewise, some of these categorizations may be controversial. Many sources call Tera Sinube's saber white, not silver, though we've charted it as silver above. And the interpretation of the darksaber listed above is, unfortunately, subjective — because it's extremely rare, we don't know how consistently it would fit certain character types (it's also shaped more like a metal sword than a lightsaber).
Purple was just Samuel L. Jackson's favorite color
Other quirks abound, as well — Samuel L. Jackson's character, Mace Windu, probably got a purple lightsaber because Jackson asked for it, not because of some complicated mythology in the universe. And Luke Skywalker's lightsaber was originally blue, and was only changed to green during post-production to make it more visible.
So with all those caveats, are lightsaber colors meaningful at all? It's tough to say, especially since the expanded universe is no longer canonical, according to Star Wars corporate parent Disney. However, the first few colors are definitely symbolic guides to the characters who carry each lightsaber, and as future lightsaber colors are considered, it's likely that previous color choices will be taken into consideration.
All that is a long way of saying, yes, you can gloat that you understand lightsaber colors and your friends don't. Now choose the one that suits you, and may the force ... well, you know the rest.
Like this video? Subscribe to Vox on YouTube.
Jon Snow is not the bastard son of Ned Stark.
Rather, he is the son — quite possibly trueborn — of the late Rhaegar Targaryen, who was Prince of Dragonstone and heir apparent to the Iron Throne before his death during the rebellion that overthrew the Targaryen dynasty. This means Jon is also Daenerys's nephew, and arguably the legitimate heir to the Iron Throne. His Stark-like appearance comes from his mother, Lyanna Stark, Ned's sister and the one true love of the late King Robert Baratheon.
This, at least, is an extremely popular theory among obsessive fans of George R. R. Martin's Song of Ice and Fire books — one that has been extensively discussed and documented in the fan forums online. It's also a theory that obviously has huge implications for the Game of Thrones television series, and could help explain why the most recent episode chewed up a fair amount of precious screen time with reminiscences of two people who've never appeared on the show.
Of course, nobody can be sure whether this theory — known as R+L=J in the fandom — is true. But it does explain several otherwise hard-to-grasp decisions Ned Stark makes in the first season. What's more, if it's true, it provides a plausible path for Jon to ascend to the Iron Throne, which thematically seems to be the direction the series is headed in.
The R+L=J theory involves crucial actions by several characters who haven't been seen since season one, and by other characters who have never been seen on screen.
These are the key players:
At a high level, R+L=J is compelling because it explains Ned Stark's enigmatic behavior vis a vis Jon.
The one thing we really know about Ned is that he puts a ton of stock in honor. Yet we are supposed to believe that this extremely honorable man fathered a bastard son, then brought him home to Winterfell, where the child's presence is a constant humiliation to a wife he genuinely loves, and that he then — for no clear reason — refuses to tell Jon who his mother is.
R+L=J transforms this from a dishonorable and weird sequence of events into an honorable one. Ned took possession of his sister's son, and claimed him as his own because had he admitted the truth, King Robert would have had the boy killed, lest his very existence undermine Robert's claim to the throne. Ned can't tell anyone who Jon's real father is, because the truth would be deadly.
In addition, close readers of the books have found a number of pieces of more specific textual evidence.
A number of fragments in the books are cited as textual evidence for the theory:
Jon Snow's storyline is not exactly the most exciting part of the Game of Thrones narrative. Nevertheless, he's given many chapters in the books and a lot of screen time in the show. The audience is primed, in other words, to expect big things out of him. And the mysteries of Jon's parentage and Ned's promise to Lyanna are both classic Chekhov's gun material — why introduce any of this unless it's going to pay off somehow?
The promise to Lyanna could relate to any member of the Stark family, but whoever Jon's mother is, she's got to be someone significantly related to the endgame for Jon. R+L=J sets up the possibility that Jon will contend for the Iron Throne and/or possess useful and dramatically interesting Targaryen dragon powers.
A related extratextual issue is that the TV show necessarily cuts a lot of material from the books. That's often a good guide to which segments of the books are truly necessary to move the story forward, versus ones that simply serve a general world-building or theme-emphasizing purpose. King Robert visiting Lyanna's grave in Winterfell and talking about her survived the adaptation process.

Is this scene just a waste of time? Or did it make it into the television show because the character of Lyanna Stark is going to prove important by the end, thus making it necessary to introduce her to the TV audience, even if they are certain to forget her right away? Well, last night Baelish and Sansa revisited the crypt and talked about Lyanna again as a reminder. But for what?
Then in a separate scene we get an extended reflection on Rhaegar. These two clearly have some role to play in the rest of the narrative.
Contemplating the R+L=J scenario is also a reminder that the vast majority of what we know — or "know" — about the recent history of Westeros amounts to history as written by the victors. The Starks, the Lannisters, and Renly and Stannis Baratheon all ultimately fought against the Targaryen dynasty. Daenarys was too young to have any recollection of the relevant events. House Tyrell fought on the Targaryen side of the war, but we haven't really heard their perspective on its outbreak.
In the victors' telling, the realm was beset not just by a Mad King but by a sudden and entirely irrational action on the part of his previously not-mad son, who for no reason at all kidnapped the daughter of one of the most prominent nobles in the land while she was betrothed to one of the other most prominent nobles.
But what if this is wrong?
What if Lyanna ran off with Rhaegar out of true love, despite her betrothal to Robert? That would change the narrative somewhat. What's more, though arranged marriages are certainly par for the course among the Westerosi nobility, there's no good reason for the Starks to have preferred a match with Robert Baratheon to one with the heir apparent to the Iron Throne.
Unless, that is, the intertwined network of houses Baratheon, Arryn, Stark, and Tully that ultimately brought down the Targaryens was conspiring to overthrow the ruling house since before the alleged abduction. This is the "Southron Ambitions" theory, which is much broader and less specifically grounded in the text than the core R+L=J theory.
According to Southron Ambitions, Mad King Aerys was much less paranoid (though no less brutal) than his "official" portrayal, and was combating a very genuine threat to his rule that existed long before the specific Lyanna crisis. At a minimum, Southron Ambitions posits a "just because you're paranoid doesn't mean they're not after you" view of Aerys's downfall.
Well, for starters, the whole idea that assertions about a fictional universe can be true or false raises some puzzling metaphysical issues. David Lewis's 1978 American Philosophical Quarterly article on the subject may be a good place to start if you're interested in that.
On a more banal level, the question is whether the fandom is accurately forecasting where Martin (or HBO, but this seems to be a question that's too fundamental to allow show/book divergence) is going with the story.
One possible issue is that Martin is of course aware of the R+L=J theory and has it within his power to change direction even if this was his original plan for the series. After all, it's clear from events like Ned Stark's execution and the Red Wedding that Martin likes to keep the audience off-balance.
On the other hand, both Martin and HBO's showrunners have repeatedly told the story that when David Benioff and Dan Weiss were pitching the adaptation, Martin tested their knowledge of the books by asking them to guess who Jon's mother was — and they got it right. That's a strong indication that whatever Martin's original plan was, it's still valid, and too central to his long-term plan to be changed.
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by foreign policy writer Zack Beauchamp and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Todd VanDerWerff: It's easy to see why "The Sons of the Harpy" is the last episode HBO sent out to critics for review earlier this year. This is one riveting, action-packed episode of television. Just about every storyline has a major turn (or two), and it concludes with a massive fight that seems to leave two characters dead.
For as much as I love Game of Thrones for the intellectual and philosophical topics it raises, it's also a damn visceral and fun show to watch. The two big action sequences in tonight's episode are as good as this sort of thing gets on TV, and a far cry from the days when Tyrion would get whanged in the head so the series didn't have to depict a whole battle scene.
Game of Thrones gets a lot of credit for its big battle episodes, like "Blackwater" and "The Watchers on the Wall," but I'd wager that its smaller fight scenes are even more important and just as impressive. If you watch other TV shows, it's rare to have a sustained battle that is told in any sort of coherent fashion. Game of Thrones tends to be much better at this than most, and "The Sons of the Harpy" is a terrific example of this.
Take, for instance, that fight with the four horsemen Bronn and Jaime happen upon. The script (by Dave Hill) has done a terrific job of preparing you for this moment, thanks to the handful of reminders about Jaime's metal hand. It would be easy to make this over-obvious, but Hill slides in a quick joke about how Bronn has to row because Jaime can't instead. It's genius.
Game of Thrones is expert at building jeopardy in these smaller sequences
But that's nothing compared to the world-weary way Bronn realizes he's going to have to take the majority of these guys, because Jaime, at best, can handle one of them, and only then if that dude is slowed down somehow. What I love about how director Mark Mylod shoots this sequence is that Bronn pretty much leaves it once he's narrowed Jaime's battle down to a one-on-one. We know that Bronn's going to be just fine. It's Jaime who's in serious trouble, and Jaime who's saved by the very metal hand that seemed such an impediment just a few moments ago.
Game of Thrones, in other words, is expert at building jeopardy in these smaller sequences. It calibrates viewers' expectations so the characters never get their wins too easily, and because we've seen enough of these scenes end very poorly, we never get too complacent, even when a bunch of series regulars are involved.
The show is also very good at making sure there are character stakes for the vast majority of these sequences. In the battle on the beach, the character stakes for Jaime involve the simple fact that he's not sure he's of any use in a fight, something he quickly proves true in his sluggish struggle against the swordsman he ultimately defeats, but only through a quick bit of luck. The show underlines how unlikely success will be for Bronn and Jaime, especially with the Sand Snakes ready to strike.
Of course, the really big battle in this episode comes when Grey Worm and Barristan face down legions of members of the Sons of the Harpy. This fight is slightly more chaotic and harder to follow than the one on the beach, but with good reason. First, Grey Worm is backed into a corner, then Barristan comes to the rescue, only to get backed into the same corner himself. It's less a proper fight than something out of a video game, the two of them facing down wave after wave of enemies.
Mylod shoots this fight in similar fashion, too. The only real moments of clarity are the few when Barristan arrives and the fighting pauses just long enough for the Sons of the Harpy to look him over and wonder what the hell just wandered into their corridor o' violence. It's a great example of another thing Game of Thrones understands about great fight sequences: they need proper pauses and punctuation, lest they become too overwhelming.
Nobody is going to read this particular thesis — Game of Thrones has great battles! — and find it to be an incredibly original one, but the primary feeling I had leaving this episode was just that. In a TV landscape that still often struggles to feature coherent fight sequences, it's a real pleasure to watch a show that tosses them off almost as a matter of course.
I really hope Barristan is somehow still alive, even as I know he's not. (That happy story he told about palling around with Rhaegar was basically like a cop telling his partner he's going to retire in a week in a detective movie.) There's a lot going on in this episode, so I'll toss it out to you guys, perhaps by starting with this question — everybody in this episode is dealing with extremism of one form or another. What do you think Game of Thrones wants us to think about these sorts of movements?
Read the recap. Come back for thoughts from Andrew later today.
Previous week's discussion
Next: Andrew on all those fundamentalists
Will Forte was already a semi-accomplished sitcom writer when he joined the cast of Saturday Night Live in 2002. He had written episodes of Third Rock From the Sun, That '70s Show, and the less well-remembered Jenny McCarthy Show. But it was on SNL that he found his first major success, with one of his most famous characters, MacGruber, even going on to star in his own movie.
Since leaving SNL as a full-time cast member in 2010, Forte has pursued an eclectic mix of projects. He played a major role in Best Picture nominee Nebraska, a frequently recurring character on 30 Rock, and the voice of Abraham Lincoln in The Lego Movie. His most prominent role, however, is in Fox's sitcom The Last Man on Earth, which wrapped its first season Sunday, May 3, and is available in its entirety on Hulu Plus. In the show, which Forte also created, he plays Phil, a survivor of an unspecified apocalypse, whose awful personality is only revealed when he stumbles upon other survivors.
Though the show debuted to great reviews for its pilot (which featured only Forte on screen for much of its running time), it has proved divisive in subsequent episodes, with some (including myself) finding the show's presentation of Phil as a terrible person to be subversively hilarious and others simply finding him too much to bear. I talked with Forte recently about why so many people don't like Phil, what he learned as a first-time showrunner, and how little he knows about season two.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
Todd VanDerWerff: I binged this first season and ended up really liking it, but a lot of my friends who watched it week to week got frustrated with it. To what degree were you building it as one unit, versus individual episodes?
Will Forte: We came into it thinking about it as a whole season. Obviously, we had to get down to the particulars, but more than anything we were thinking about the whole arc. We have the benefit of knowing where Phil ends up. Other people don't. I tend to like a little bit of mystery in stuff.
"I'm going to write it the way I think is best, and the people who are fans of that will tune in"
I'm proud of it. I'm sad that some people didn't share that, but the room and the cast, that's what's important to me, is how they feel about it. I wish other people had stuck with it, and some people did. We lost some, but I'm certainly not going to change what I like for those other people. I'm going to write it the way I think is best, and the people who are fans of that will tune in. The other people, that's unfortunate. I wish they did like it, but you're never going to win over everybody.
TV: Phil often seems like the most awful person on TV, but you're careful to make the joke on him. How do you balance that for the audience?
WF: That's the tricky part. Sometimes we did it. Sometimes we didn't.
Certainly we want you to be on Phil's side, but we also realize we're making you follow this guy down through some dark moments. He loses it a little bit. I think it's a pretty heightened situation that he's going through, obviously. He's been on his own for so long that I think people forget his mind is still kind of cloudy from his situation of [thinking he's] the last person alive.

But that's the trick. We learned a lot of lessons from this season. I'm very excited to go in and to get a crack at a second season. I'd never run a show before, and I started out in the business writing, but I was a low-level writer when I went off to SNL, so I had no business running this show. [Laughs.]

We're really proud of it, but it certainly doesn't mean we couldn't do some things a lot better.
TV: What are some things you learned from the first season?
WF: We wrote scripts that were too long, so you get to a point where you're trying to edit this stuff down, and you have to lose a lot of the nuances of the characters and the situations. Everything seems a little more broad. You lose little connectors that make things seem a little more organic.
"We wrote scripts that were too long. ... You have to lose a lot of the nuances."
That's an important thing to me: telling the story in a more economical way, so everything feels more real and organic. Even crazy situations that seem a little big and broad and over the top, everything will seem a teeny bit more realistic when you're able to fully show [the character moments]. We learned who these characters are.
Every part of this process is something that's not a new thing now. I've got the best writers around. We've all been working together now for a year, so we know each other, and there's a lot of shorthand. The cast is all so fantastic, and we all got to know each other really well. This crew is just amazing. So every part of the process is going to be streamlined and well-oiled.
TV: Your writers' room is full of people who've done great stuff elsewhere. How did you convince people to come on board a TV show that could have easily seemed unsustainable?
WF: I had the benefit of knowing what we were going to do with it, so when I met with these people, it was, "Oh, here's the plan." They saw right away that it would be a fun thing to attempt.
These people are like family to me. I'm working with two of my best friends, one of whom I worked at SNL with, John Solomon. Emily Spivey and Liz Cackowski I've worked with for years at SNL. Emily I was in the Groundlings with. Andy Bobrow I was in the Groundlings with 20 years ago. Erik Durbin, we worked at Third Rock from the Sun together. There's like 100 plus years of friendship in this room.
TV: Obviously the show is not a hard-core tale of what it would be like to live through the apocalypse. Instead, it's kind of a satire of modern life. What were you hoping to say about our modern world using that setting?
WF: I hope to really tackle this much more in the second season, but it is a way to examine the things we do in current-day society that don't make a lot of sense. You can examine them on a real micro level.
You can only do so much in the time we're given. It's only 21 and a half minutes, so some of these things we didn't really get to tackle in the same way. We favored the stuff that was interpersonal stuff.
Anything can happen, but it seems like we've probably reached the limit of humans coming in for the time being and can really look at some of these societal rebuilding things that we didn't get a chance to in the first season.
TV: So much of the discussion around the show has been focused on Phil, but Carol (Kristen Schaal) is just as important of a character. How did you develop her character?
WF: Carol was part of the original pitch. Kristen Schaal was the person who we thought of from the very beginning. We even mentioned her in the pitch, so she's always been just as important to this thing as Phil. We knew that we would be arcing out the season with her starting at a certain place and ending at a certain place.
I can't say enough about Kristen. She's asked to do this really hard role, and I don't know anybody else who could pull it off.
TV: You end on some big moments in the first-season finale. As you're discussing season two in the writers' room and production meetings, what are some themes or ideas you keep returning to that you're interested in exploring?
WF: I'm not going to tell you much about season two, because I have no idea what we're going to do for season two. [Laughs.]
We have little ideas here and there, but we haven't figured out a season-two arc yet. The season-one arc poured out of this one weekend of thinking stuff out and for the most part remained intact, with little intricate details changed around a bit. But the general strokes of season one came out pretty quickly.
"If I knew what we were going to do, that would mean other people could probably guess what we were going to do"
Season two, there's a lot of stuff to think about, because there's so many ways to go. We leave at the end of episode 13 with a ton of ways to go with every character. Everybody in the cul de sac, they could leave and go somewhere. Phil and Carol, who knows where they'll end up? And obviously the final scene with Jason [Sudeikis, who plays Phil's brother, an astronaut stranded on the International Space Station]. Who knows what will happen there?
I have ideas for them, but until we really get in there and think out how everything can work in concert, we won't know exactly. That, to me, is the most exciting thing. If I knew what we were going to do, that would mean other people could probably guess what we were going to do. That would mean there was one logical way to go. This excites me to be in such open territory.
Watch The Last Man on Earth on Hulu Plus.
For the most part, I am an advocate of watching TV at a slower pace than the binge-watch. Binge-watching often robs individual episodes of their power, and it has a tendency to blur things together. That can turn a whole season or series into one giant blob, where all that matters is whether the ending is any good.
But there are some shows where a binge-watch actually reveals an ambition that's harder to see in week-to-week viewing. One such show is Fox's The Last Man on Earth, which completed its first season Sunday, May 3, and is now available in its entirety on Hulu Plus.
Even when you know the irritation is intentional, it can be difficult to keep watching a show that forces you to spend time with such an unpleasant person
From week to week, The Last Man on Earth could be hard to take. Did it really expect viewers to willingly hang out with its protagonist, Phil (Will Forte), who would make a good run at the title of TV's Most Irritating Character? Yes, that was by design, but even when you know the irritation is intentional, it can be difficult to keep watching a show that forces you to spend time with such an unpleasant person.
In a binge, though, Phil's awfulness reveals itself to be much more as comedic. Once you're free of wondering why you're still tuning in — the simple answer is that you're too lazy to turn off autoplay — the character's childish impudence is easier to identify as one long joke that has its ultimate payoff when he's pushed further toward outsider status in the post-apocalyptic community he helped establish.
The Last Man on Earth might be a gimmick sitcom, in that it's built around a seemingly unsustainable, high-concept premise — but like the best gimmick sitcoms, it uses that premise to talk about other things.
Here are five elements of Last Man that are easier to appreciate when watching it all at once:
Phil is whiny and constantly insistent on everybody paying absolute attention to him. Not exactly the guy you want to ride out the apocalypse with.
Fox
The Last Man on Earth's greatest gambit was in compelling viewers to sympathize deeply with Phil in its first half-hour, which featured the poor guy wandering Tucson, Arizona, convinced he was — well, look at the show's title.
Once he met other people — particularly Kristen Schaal as his eventual wife, Carol, and January Jones as Melissa — it became harder to see Phil's sympathetic qualities, because he was so terrible to everyone he encountered. It was tempting to wonder if the show was yet another story that wanted us to feel bad for a guy because he has to sleep with his wife instead of the attractive woman he just met.
By the end of the season, it's clear that even phil realizes he was the villain of this story
But Last Man ultimately revealed itself to be less about whether Phil would get to sleep with Melissa, and more about whether he would come to be friends with any of these people. As more and more people arrived at the compound, Phil's irritating insistence on being the center of attention at all times became more and more recognizable as the grand joke it was intended to be.
And it wasn't hard to see that so many of the people he was acting awful toward were women who just wanted to move on with their lives, without dealing with his masculine strutting. The show doesn't go out of its way to point this out, but by the end of the season, it's clear that even Phil realizes he was the villain of this story.
Last Man's take on gender roles isn't exactly sophisticated, but in its best moments it feels like a parody of the very worst things about bro culture embedded within an otherwise normal ensemble comedy. It's a mix that improves as the show progresses, particularly once Boris Kodjoe joins the cast as a much better-looking, much more competent version of Phil.
In the season finale, Phil tells Carol, "I'm not a good person." It's the closest he's come to a moment of lucidity, but just a few seconds later, he says, "I'm a good person!" That's The Last Man on Earth in a nutshell: somebody on the cusp of revelation, forever falling short.
There's a rather persistent idea that a sitcom should have likable characters, people you want to spend time with week in and week out, and who might be your friends in real life. But most sitcoms are secretly about horrible people, who shut out the others in their life and scheme to always get their way.
Last Man simply foregrounds this. Because there are no other people around, Phil's awfulness (and the other characters' awful moments) is not just a cute, quirky gag. It becomes, instead, a legitimate threat to the survival of society. In its own way, Last Man forces viewers to ask whether they want a character they always like, or a character who's always doing something interesting.
Phil and Carol's arguments drive much of the season's too-repetitive middle section. But on a binge, the repetitiveness is easier to deal with.
Fox
The middle section of this first season is much too repetitive. Sure, there are funny gags in every episode, but the show quickly falls into a rut where Phil wants to sleep with Melissa but is stuck with Carol. At best, it covers the same ground too many times. At worst, it seems like the show is undercutting its own satirical message by presenting all of its women as no-fun scolds.
But in a binge, the most repetitive section of the season (roughly from episodes five through eight) blitzes by very quickly before the season moves on to its much more compelling end game, when more people show up in Tucson and shake up Phil's world even more.
And though I doubt the writers planned it, this portion of the season also works as a sneaky spoof of sitcom tropes. All of the characters behave as if they're stuck in a mid-'90s comedy about a husband with a nagging wife, and yet Last Man is acutely aware of how ridiculous this notion is when the planet is practically devoid of human life. When the reset button is pressed at the end of every episode, it's almost as if the characters have chosen to rebuild their society atop the ruins of Nick at Nite.
Put simply, The Last Man on Earth is one of the most visually stunning comedies on TV. Granted, there's not a lot of competition for this title, but Last Man is always careful to make sure some of its best qualities are its visual ones. Even in the show's weaker episodes, it comes up with great sight gags, or features vast desert landscapes that underscore the characters' isolation.
Its best single image might be the one it keeps returning to, again and again, of the characters — who might represent the end of humanity — settled in together on couches around a roaring fire pit. It's at once a little poignant and a dryly amusing evocation of shows like Friends. Here we are, gathered and chatting, because we can't think of anything better to do.
Though set in a post-apocalyptic world, Last Man on Earth is often staged like a traditional sitcom, which adds to the joke.
Fox
It might not seem like one, but The Last Man on Earth is a love story about two people who only belatedly realize how good they are for each other. When I talked to Forte about season one, he told me that Carol was part of the show's premise from the start, and that he'd always hoped Schaal would play her. It's easy to see why once season one has ended. The two actors have great chemistry, but they also find ways to make their characters' worst qualities and foibles seem more human.
The improvement in its last third suggests all involved have learned how to make the show
The first season of Last Man is far from perfect, but the improvement it shows in its last third suggests that all involved parties have learned how to make the show. And the series' choice to keep returning to Phil and Carol, whether separately or together, indicates its acknowledgement that its title is a lie. It has always been a show about the last two deeply flawed people on Earth.
When you're in love, it's easy to feel as if the person you love is the only other person on the face of the planet. There's something romantic in that, to be sure, but there's also something a little creepy about it. In exploring that notion, The Last Man on Earth may have finally found its best self.
The complete first season of The Last Man on Earth is available on Hulu Plus.
"They taught us at Barnard about that word, 'utopia'. The Greeks had two meaning for it: 'eu-topos', meaning the good place, and 'u-topos' meaning the place that cannot be." — Rachel Menken, season one, episode 6, "Babylon."
Here's the one shot that explains Mad Men.
Don sits in a meeting, listening to the description of a Miller beer drinker, described as a man from Wisconsin. It's the meeting he's wanted his whole career, a chance to really impress a big client.
But his heart isn't in it. It's obvious from Jon Hamm's face. And then he looks out the window.
Don spies a plane flying over Manhattan.
AMC
After director Phil Abraham holds on this shot for a long moment, he cuts back to Don, surrounded by cans of Coca-Cola, the symbol of everything he could gain from working at McCann. Abraham slowly pushes in on Don's face, as he comes to some sort of realization.
Don is thinking about how he'd rather not be here right now.
AMC
We know Don well enough by now to know what that realization is. He's going to leave. He's going to leave, and he might not ever come back. When this episode ends with Don driving a young hitchhiker to St. Paul, rather than heading back to New York, it's as close as I've ever come to thinking he'll never be back. Heck, I wouldn't mind if that was the last we saw of him, if the show transitioned to filling out the lives of the other characters. It's that good an endpoint for the character.
If every episode of Mad Men can be summarized in one scene contained within it, as I suggested in the season premiere, then the shot of the plane above is the whole show in a single frame. No matter where the Mad Men characters are, they think there might be something better just around the corner, and it's that illusion that keeps trapping them. Utopia, as Rachel told us way back in season one, is a lie. It can never be.
Don watches the movie Lost Horizon back in the season seven premiere.
AMC
Thinking about utopia led me to this episode's title, "Lost Horizon," which is the name of a film Don watched all the way back in the season seven premiere. Lost Horizon, in both novel and film form, is about the land of Shangri-La, a hidden world where things are perfect and people don't age. (Indeed, the hero of the story is brought to Shangri-La by a plane crash, adding extra resonance to the shot of the plane.)
And yet, many of the residents of Shangri-La wish to escape. A perfect world is no world worth living in, it would seem.
Thus it's fitting that "Lost Horizon" is about false utopias and attempts to escape them. Here are the three brands of fake perfection that ensnare our characters throughout the episode.
The strange labyrinth of McCann Erickson's hallways stymies Don. He, quite literally, is lost.
AMC
There's perhaps no scene in this episode that so resonates with the idea of the false utopia than when Don goes in for a meeting with Jim Hobart. Jim promises him the world, but he then wants Don to introduce himself, to say he's Don Draper with McCann Erickson. Jim has worked 10 years for this moment, and damned if he's not going to enjoy it.
But Don's not the type to want to feel owned. Indeed, feeling like he belongs to a company is the sort of thing that might cause him to bolt. One of the reasons he stuck with Sterling Cooper & Partners is that the agency was, at least partially, his idea. Yet now here he is, in a place where his office looks more than a little like the one he had in the first three seasons of the show.
Shangri-La is a place where people get frozen. It's how they're able to stay young for ages upon ages, but it's also why things never change. This is a constant theme of utopian fiction. Things might be great, but they're also pretty boring. A lack of evolution will do that to a person.
Matthew Weiner and Semi Chellas's script for "Lost Horizon" is filled with moments where McCann Erickson seems ready to erase the characters' current iterations, to force them back into their season-one roles, no matter how much they protest.
Jim Hobart is no longer so much the devil in disguise. Now he's just the devil.
AMC
When Joan is told, in no uncertain terms, that her partnership doesn't matter and the best she can do is get half of the money McCann owes her, it's with the voice of a man who hasn't had to face the evolutions of the '60s, not really. Hell, for a time it seems like McCann is going to try to force Peggy back into the role of a secretary, even though we all know she'd never put up with that. The only person who seems really at ease at McCann is Pete, which is completely unsurprising.
That's why it makes sense that Don's new office seems so much like the old one. But that whistling window also seems like a dull warning of what's about to happen to him and all of his friends. They're just cogs in machines, now. The beautiful image of what could be is ruined by a tiny, single flaw.
Roger and Peggy have a drink while Sterling Cooper & Partners literally disintegrates around them.
AMC
But you know what? Sterling Cooper & Partners, where Roger and Peggy spend most of the episode, was a false utopia, too. The founding partners started it to get away from McCann, but the only way it could survive as the kind of enterprise they wanted it to be was to ... become exactly like McCann. McCann is both successful and soulless, sure, but maybe there's something just a little soulless about success.
It's interesting to watch the show reimagine SC&P as a place where good things happened, a place too good to survive for long. For a moment, Peggy undercuts Roger's sentimentality with the insistence that everything at SC&P was miserable, but her heart's not really in it.
Of course, this is what we do. If we're thrust into a new situation that we don't like, we rewrite the old one as perfect. We might erase all of the happiness present in a marriage that ended in divorce, say, or remember a troubled relationship we nonetheless miss as better than it actually was.
There's a bit of that with Roger and Peggy, who sit in the shambles of their old lives and wonder about what could have been. The shot of Roger playing the organ while Peggy roller skates around the wreck that was their office is at once gleefully surreal and incredibly sad. This was somebody's dream, once, but now it's all being taken down and scattered to the wind.
But it's also notable, I think, that with proper time to mourn, the two of them show up at McCann and seem like they have their shit together. Roger goes to offer Joan a way out (even if it's not the way out she would have taken), while Peggy ... well, Peggy is just amazing in every way.
Peggy Olson is the champion of our hearts.
AMC
Let's hope she stays amazing and shows McCann she's not to be trifled with.
Don waits outside a house he might have put in an ad. In fact, this almost looks like an ad.
AMC
This might seem like an overreach, but think about this episode's throughline, which involves Don leaving that meeting, saying a kind of farewell to his ex-wife, and finally driving off into Middle America in search of the former family of a woman he thought he loved. His journey to Racine, Wisconsin, is the journey he's been threatening to take all along, and when it ends, he heads even farther west, off toward the Twin Cities.
He's accompanied, for a time, by the ghost of one Bert Cooper, who quotes On the Road to him (after pointing out how he never would have read that book). Bert means to be Don's conscience again, to drag him back to New York, where he can at least help manage the fallout from Roger's attempt to save Don's job. But Don won't listen to it. He likes too much to play the stranger, as Bert puts it. The night is dark and endless, and the country rolls on in front of him. He's got money to burn.
Don walks off to look for America, just like the song said.
AMC
But this has always been the temptation on Mad Men. Viewing America as a great big void in which to get lost, defined primarily by images of Shangri-Las that never were, invented by men like Don, is ultimately self-defeating. That's not how things really are. From Don's point of view, Diana is an impossibly mysterious woman who left it all behind, the way he always wishes he could have. From the point of view of her ex-husband and daughter, she just left.
And the fact that Don is able to go on a walkabout because he feels like it contrasts him almost perfectly with the other character who finally leaves McCann: Joan. Joan doesn't leave because she wants to. She leaves because she has to, and she leaves taking only half of what she's owed, a picture of her son, and her Rolodex. She can stay and be sexually harassed (with the tacit approval of the firm's president), or she can take the money and run. She threatens what would amount to a sexual harassment lawsuit, but she, ultimately, just doesn't have the funds to do anything. And so she goes.
In season six, Peggy spit at Ted that it must be nice to have "decisions," as she put it, and that's the corner so many of the show's women are in, perpetually. They control their own destinies, except for all of the ways in which they don't. Don can pick up a hitchhiker, a remnant of a rapidly fading counterculture, and drive off toward St. Paul. He might even go back to McCann and find acceptance all over again (though this seems unlikely). And that's because he's the kind of person who can find those things in this world. But Joan can't. Even Peggy, though she ultimately gets what she deserves, can't forever.
Since the show began many fans have wondered whether Don Draper will ultimately become the falling man from the opening credits. It's a thought that the whistling window in Don's office brings back to mind. Don Draper needs his escape routes, but Don Draper also has the luxury of looking for them. If nothing else, "Lost Horizon" proves that if he does become that falling man, it'll be because he chose to leap. If Joan falls, it will be because she was pushed.
Don drives off, possibly forever.
AMC
Roger plays the organ. Peggy roller skates. Good night, everybody!
AMC
I'll be by at noon Eastern to talk with you guys about Mad Men and other things for an hour and a half.
Previous episode
Season five of Game of Thrones kicks into high gear in its fourth episode, "The Sons of the Harpy." HBO's hit show based off of George R. R. Martin's Song of Ice and Fire novels is getting more interesting and more unusual than ever before. Showrunners David Benioff and D. B. Weiss continue to develop plot lines that aren't present in the books and to create characters who will transform the show into its own story.
Daenerys is still battling the people of Meereen on the issue of the city's traditional fighting pits, but every other plot line really got a jump start in this episode, which contained some of the most exciting moments of the season so far. They're also the moments everyone will be talking about (spoilers ahead).
Jamie stops a sword with his hand.
HBO
On their quest to retrieve Jaime's niece daughter Myrcella from Dorne on orders from Cersei, Jaime and Bronn jump off their ship and swim to the shores of Dorne, where they must hide from the touring patrol. Jaime's decision to enter Dorne without announcing his arrival, as a member of the Kingsguard and the royal family, could easily be taken as an act of war — and in a way, it is. After all, he's there to break a treaty between the Lannister family and the Martell family, which rules Dorne.
In his heyday, Jaime was one of the best swordsmen in all the Seven Kingdoms, but by season five he's been through a long stint as a prisoner of war that ended with him wearing one of his own hands around his neck. When he and Bronn must fight four Dornishmen and Bronn asks how many of them Jaime can handle, he replies, "One — if he's slow." While Bronn deals with the other three, Jaime uses his golden fake hand to stop a blade headed for his face.

A man gets hit in the head with a spear! (HBO)
In episode two, we saw that Ellaria Sand, paramour of the late Oberyn Martell, would love nothing more than to kill the young princess Myrcella as a way to exact revenge on the Lannisters. Now that Jaime has secretly entered her country — as she learns from the captain of the ship that smuggled him in — she's even more intent on avenging Oberyn's death.
But Ellaria isn't just quietly fuming inside the palace walls, and she isn't alone, because she has the Sand Snakes on her side. The Sand Snakes are Oberyn's bastard daughters, and the ones we meet in episode four are a trio of badass women who are ready to go to war with Ellaria. They are trained fighters with some pretty amazing skills, and Game of Thrones illustrates this fact when one of them throws a spear into the head of the aforementioned ship captain, who's buried up to his neck in the sand. This is the violence of the series at its best — smart, brilliantly staged, and incredibly brutal.

Tryion rides in a boat with Jorah. (HBO)
Episode three ended with Tyrion being kidnapped by Jorah Mormont, Daenerys’s former adviser. Jorah violently loads Tyrion into a boat to deliver him — as we'll soon learn — to Dany. This reveal is supposed to be a bit of a surprise because season four spent a good amount of time relishing in Dany's anger when she found out that Jorah had been working for the Lannisters, and when Jorah first announces that he's taking Tyrion "to the queen," we're meant to assume he's hoping to reenter Cersei's good graces by returning Tyrion to King's Landing. Episode four confirms that Jorah is still fully devoted to Daenerys (or faking it really well).

The Sparrows from episode three have increased their presence in King's Landing, and with the High Sparrow deep in Cersei's pocket they have become a kind of unstoppable police force within the city. Episode four opens with a Sparrows set piece that sees them carving a religious emblem into their foreheads, a sign of their brutality to come.
The most political of the Sparrows' moves, though, is their citizen's arrest of Loras Tyrell, the brother of Margaery Tyrell whom we've often seen flaunting his homosexuality and sleeping with various men. The Sparrows, who are known to be hyper-conservative (as Todd VanDerWerff wrote last week), take Loras into custody for his homosexual behavior, in keeping with their shaming of the high priest in episode three. This arrest, though, says more about Cersei and her growing fear that Margaery's manipulative abilities will soon outrank her own. Of course, their competition completely relies on which of them will best be able to boss around wimpy child king Tommen, who at this point seems to still be thinking mostly about sex.

The big battle scene. (HBO)
Every season of Game of Thrones has featured at least one expertly choreographed fight scene that ends in death and fear. What the Red Wedding and the Battle of Blackwater were to previous seasons, the Harpy ambush of the Unsullied is to season five. The foreshadowing of the season-five premiere, which saw a member of the Unsullied get his throat slit in a brothel, comes full circle as the Sons of the Harpy launch a full-scale attack on some of Daenerys's troops.
When Grey Worm pursues a man dressed in the trademark Harpy mask, the same prostitute from the premiere feigns panic and points Grey Worm and several of his fellow Unsullied right into a Harpy trap. The Unsullied are quickly outnumbered, and the battle is savage. Daenerys's main adviser, Barristan Selmy, arrives just in time to save an already wounded Grey Worm from certain death, but is gravely injured. As the episode concludes, it's not clear whether Ser Barristan and Grey Worm will survive their injuries, or whether they'll die and force Daenerys to reconsider her opinion of Jorah.
Previous episode
Spoilers for the newest episode of Game of Thrones are below.
This week's episode of Game of Thrones, "The Sons of the Harpy," killed off at least one character who doesn't die in George R. R. Martin's published books.
And that's not the only shocker. Several prominent characters — Sansa, Littlefinger, Brienne, Jaime, Bronn, and Loras Tyrell — have, at this point, completely left behind what's on the page. Others, including some important characters in Dorne we should have met by now, are nowhere to be found.
Even the plot lines of Daenerys, Jon, and Cersei — which are still basically following their book material from A Dance With Dragons overall — have some big surprises.
Barristan Selmy's moving last words: "Aaaahhhh!!!"
(HBO)
It sure looked like the battle that ends this episode resulted in the death of Dany's most important adviser, Barristan Selmy — and perhaps also Grey Worm, the captain of Dany's Unsullied army. And now Entertainment Weekly's James Hibberd has confirmed that Barristan, at least, has met his demise.
In A Dance With Dragons, the Sons of the Harpy insurgents are indeed very powerful and dangerous. But they never kill anyone in Dany's inner circle — or any established characters the reader cares about. Barristan, in fact, grows even more important near the end of that book, becoming a point-of-view character for the first time. Grey Worm is a much more minor character in the books, but he's also still around.
I'd speculate that the showrunners decided to kill Barristan off for a few reasons:
"What's going on? I don't get arrested in the books!"
(HBO)
Cersei's budding alliance with the High Sparrow pays off in this episode, as she moves against the Tyrells. She tricks Margaery's oafish father, Mace, into going to Braavos to deal with the Iron Bank — escorted by menacing Kingsguard Meryn Trant, who may be under orders to ensure his charge doesn't make it back. With Mace gone, Cersei then decides to take out her own fiancé — Margaery's brother Loras — by tipping off the newly empowered fundamentalists of the Faith to his homosexuality.
In the books, Cersei is never betrothed to Loras at all, because he's named to the Kingsguard (who are not permitted to marry). He's also never arrested by the Faith. In general, Loras's homosexuality isn't an overt plot point in the books — many readers actually miss Martin's subtle hints about it, in contrast to the show, where seemingly everyone in Westeros knows. In A Feast for Crows, Cersei instead gets Mace and Loras out of the city by sending each to take over an important castle still controlled by Stannis's forces. She does eventually use the Faith against the Tyrells, but in a different way (which we might get to later in the season).
The Sand Snakes don't like Lannisters.
(HBO)
After a brief glimpse at Dorne two weeks ago, we finally get our first prolonged set of scenes in the kingdom in this episode. Jaime Lannister and Bronn sneak into the country, are quickly discovered, and barely win a fight with a small group of Dornishmen. Meanwhile, Ellaria Sand and the Sand Snakes, the paramour and three daughters of the late Oberyn Martell, have been tipped off to his arrival, as they scheme about how to use Cersei's daughter Myrcella to provoke a war between Dorne and the Lannisters.
The Dornish plotline in A Feast for Crows focuses on a similar scheme, but the characters involved are quite different. The Sand Snakes want war, but after they're introduced in an early chapter, Prince Doran immediately imprisons them before they can do anything about it. The book version of Ellaria, as I mentioned in week two, wants peace. And neither Jaime nor Bronn goes anywhere near Dorne in the books.
Instead, it's the prince's daughter Arianne Martell — a character who has apparently been cut from the show — who drives the action. She decides to crown Myrcella as the rightful ruler of Westeros, since she is older than her little brother King Tommen, and by Dornish law male children aren't preferred to female children in inheritance rights. Her true and more selfish motivation is a desire to compete with her brother Quentyn (another seemingly cut character). The showrunners have opted to simplify all this by focusing mainly on Oberyn's grieving relatives and giving them a unanimous desire for revenge.
Jon Snow took a vow to father no children. That includes monstrous shadowbabies.
(HBO)
In an electric scene this week, Melisandre attempts to seduce Jon Snow. She first suggests that Jon ride south with her and Stannis to take back Winterfell from the Boltons. When he refuses, she disrobes, makes Jon touch her, and says that their coupling could unleash some formidable magic (as her affair with Stannis did in season two). After Jon again declines, obliquely citing his love for Ygritte, Melisandre shocks him by repeating his dead lover's catchphrase ("You know nothing, Jon Snow") — something she should seemingly have no way of knowing, other than by magic.
In the books, such an overt seduction doesn't take place — Melisandre's attempts to win over Jon are more subtle. But much of the dialogue here (including the "You know nothing") is straight from the books, making this more of a reworking than a wholesale change.
The underlying theme in both the books and the show is that Melisandre thinks Jon is hamstrung by his vows. "There's power in you. You resist it, and that's your mistake. Embrace it!" she says. In her simplistic good vs. evil philosophy, her allies shouldn't hesitate to embrace dubious methods, like magical assassinations and oathbreaking, to gain power.
Jon doesn't buy it. Though he truly despises the Boltons — as we see in his reluctance to sign Sam's letter asking them to send recruits for the Night's Watch — he wants to stay true to his vows, and stay out of the wars of Westeros.
Some people, though, might view this way of thinking as being as black and white as Melisandre's. "You're as stubborn as your father, and as honorable," Stannis pointed out to Jon last week. But, he added, "Honor got your father killed."
This article was updated with a link to James Hibberd's confirmation that Barristan was killed.
Previous episode
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by culture writer Kelsey McKinney and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Andrew Prokop: Todd and Kelsey, it's interesting that you both think Margaery is one of the most skillful opponents Cersei's faced, and that Cersei has underestimated her. Because for all of Margaery's social savvy, we've never seen her really delve into the dark side of power politics. This week's episode drove home to me that the new queen is still quite naïve about how things work in King's Landing.
We learn here that Margaery's master plan to sideline Cersei is actually quite simple: she plants the idea in her new husband Tommen's head to "suggest" that his mother return to Casterly Rock. That's how Margaery apparently thinks she can dispose of the woman who once threatened to strangle her in her sleep for calling her "sister." She thinks the king will say it, and then it will just happen.
Yet while Margaery is amusing herself by making Heathers-ish burns about whether Cersei should be called "Queen Mother" or "Dowager Queen," Cersei is busy consolidating control of the Small Council. And previous seasons have shown us that it's these shadowy operators, like Littlefinger and Varys, who hold the real power in the capital.
In the past two weeks of council meetings, Cersei has excluded her son from proceedings, determined that no Hand of the King should be named, appointed the mysterious and unsettling Qyburn to replace Varys as spymaster, and locked up the High Septon as a bid to ally with the fundamentalist High Sparrow.
Meanwhile, the Tyrells' interests are represented on the council only by Margaery's oafish father, Mace, who actually gets up to open a door for a guest at this week's council meeting (something these other blue-blooded nobles would surely make a servant do). Mace's presence shows that Margaery must be aware those meetings are taking place. Yet she doesn't bother to attend, doesn't try to appoint someone competent to represent her interests in her absence, and apparently doesn't think what's happening at them is of any relevance to her.
Cersei has no illusions about what's necessary to get power in Westeros, and is willing to break the rules to do it
It seems like a serious blind spot, but I think it makes sense with Margaery's character. Remember that she was set to marry the sadistic monster King Joffrey last year, apparently willing to gamble that she could control him. It was her grandmother, Lady Olenna, who knew better. Olenna, with an assist from Littlefinger, came up with the devious plot to poison Joffrey at his own wedding, so Margaery would be freed up to marry the much more docile Tommen instead. Grandma didn't even bother to inform Margaery until afterward.
Meanwhile, Cersei has no illusions about what's necessary to get power in Westeros, and is willing to break the rules to do it. After she had her husband King Robert killed back in season one, she simply tore up his will in front of the court, before having Ned Stark arrested. To stave off her own exile — and the prophecy that she'd be replaced by a younger queen — she's making alliances with some dubious characters. For instance, she's empowered Qyburn to perform some truly weird experiments on the Mountain, as we see in this episode in a scene that reminded me of an infamous moment in Takashi Miike's Audition.
But Cersei has her own blind spots. Margaery's true genius is in polishing her own public image — she's always ostentatiously doing good deeds like giving food to the poor, and we see in this episode that she's won the loyalty of the cheering crowds at King's Landing. That element of politics is very important, and Cersei is undeniably awful at it. Back in season two, she said that ruling was "lying on a bed of weeds, ripping them out by the root, one by one, before they strangle you in your sleep." It's clear that she fears the people too much to effectively try and use them.
So, I wonder, could it instead be Sansa Stark who's best prepared to strike a balance between political savvy and ruthlessness? As worldly as Margaery may seem, she's actually been rather sheltered from the ugliest parts of Game of Thrones. But Sansa has, at this point, had so many horrible things happen to her — watching her father be executed, being tormented by Joffrey, being assaulted by a mob, hearing of her mother and brother's brutal murder at the Red Wedding, and nearly getting thrown out the Moon Door to her death — that she has no more illusions. She's also learned a great deal about how these horrible things happen through her closeness with Littlefinger, one of the most dangerous and ruthless schemers on the show. And she's learned how to spin some creative lies herself.
This week, Sansa handles Littlefinger's revelation that she'll be heading home to marry the son of her brother's murderer with aplomb. He advises her to get vengeance and to take control, and she decides she'll do it. And when she meets Roose and Ramsay Bolton, her courteous greeting is flawless.
Sansa, too, may soon get in over her head at Winterfell — if she thinks she's seen it all, Ramsay Bolton may beg to differ. But though her circumstances may grow quite difficult, the sum of her past experiences might help her navigate them better than we might expect.
And she may not be entirely alone, as we see when the old serving woman welcomes her home and tells her that "the North remembers." Maybe it's the Boltons who don't really know who they're dealing with.
Read the recap. We'll have thoughts on the next episode Monday morning.
Previous entry
Next week's discussion
Sleeping through The Incredible Hulk is an incredibly difficult task.
It's a terrible movie. The whole point is to show how Edward Norton's Bruce Banner does not want to get excited. So we watch him breathe. We watch him look at 2008's  version of a Fitbit. We watch him actively not seduce Liv Tyler's Betty Ross and not get angry.
We spend more time watching Bruce not do things than watching him rampage in his boisterous Hulk form. Yet thanks to an endless supply of tanks and a William Hurt who can only speak in triple decibels, the movie is still an assault on the senses.
I normally wouldn't try to sleep in a movie theater during an action movie. But it's the only option during the Ultimate Marvel Marathon — a 29-hour cinematic centipede of all 11 Marvel movies, from Iron Man to Avengers: Age of Ultron, played back to back to back.

(Regal)
The Marathon is equal parts dare, endurance test, and assertion of fan dominance. I yearned to see what kind of people can take days off of work to do this, and I was confident I could keep up with the sturdiest of Marvel fans.
So I went to King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, to show the superhero industrial complex I could take anything it threw at me.
And then the Marathon showed me the utter hubris of my decision.
2:32 pm: Pennsylvania brims with borrowed names: Lebanon, Bethlehem, Athens, Berlin. King of Prussia, a suburb with the confidence to be a phrase instead of a name, is one of these places. The historical kings of Prussia had names like Frederick and William. King of Prussia, by contrast, was actually named after an inn whose owner wanted a name that sounds luxurious.

"King of Prussia is the best mall, lots of expensive stores," my Uber driver Devang tells me on the way there from Philadelphia. "It's so huge, man. Where do you want to get dropped off?"
Devang knows there's no draw to King of Prussia other than the mall. If you're in King of Prussia, you're probably in the mall, some expansion of the mall, or at the United Artists megaplex up the street from the mall.
My biggest fear about this Marathon is the availability of food that is a) not popcorn and b) not cooked in a microwave. In order to stave off hunger for as long as possible, I decided to get the full mall-food experience and go to the Cheesecake Factory.
The constant moans of Adele accompany my Cheesecake Factory meal for one (that could really feed four). Under any other circumstances, this might be a dark, depressing moment. But in preparation for a long stretch of time where popcorn is the best "meal" available, it's a welcome respite. A dinner-size pasta featuring sausage and shrimp could very well be the last non-theater food I eat for more than a day:

Look at this glorious dish from the Cheesecake Factory. (A. Abad-Santos)
This $25 feast gave me the meat sweats, but it held me over until after midnight.
3:30 pm: The Marathon starts three hours before I expect it to.
Not long after my meal, I learn I am already behind the game. Scott, a friend undertaking the Marathon in New York, posts a picture of himself already seated in the theater on Facebook — hours before the Marathon was supposed to start.
I hadn't even begun my mile-long journey to the other side of the mall. I called the theater.
When I asked the woman who answered what time to arrive, she said I might already be too late. "There are at least 100 people here right now."
I hung up and began my walk.
This was three hours before the first movie. I didn't have a 29-hour marathon staring me in the face — I had a 32-hour one. When I got to the theater some 15 minutes later, I found out that it had reserved two auditoriums for the Marathon, and each one was already about 60 percent full.
People buzzed about Minecraft, gaming consoles, and what they thought would happen in Age of Ultron — a movie more than 24 hours away. People traded Avengers-themed 3D glasses and cup toppers (small figurines to place on commemorative cups) to get their favorite characters.
All that remained was to pick my seat — and to watch a day and a quarter's worth of movies.
3:50 pm: The worst people at the movies are the ones who come late, then ask fellow moviegoers to move over for them. But at Marvel Marathons, these people don't exist. The only people who exist are the ones who get there early, to grab the best seat.
I randomly sat down in front of Grant Hopkins. Hopkins and his friends had driven 45 minutes from New Jersey to the Marathon, and had gotten to the theater at 10 am to pick out some very specific seats, in the last row of the theater.
"We wanted this specific spot," Hopkins told me. He said he was looking for storage and leg space. "And if you didn't notice, that's the only outlet in the theater."
Hopkins and his friends let me use one of the plugs to charge my phone throughout the night. I'd later learn his seat selection was just one part of the plan.
"I took a lot of doubles — 16-hour shifts — in preparation," he told me, explaining that he worked in security. Hopkins also brought a Captain America shield that took five hours to make. I asked him why he chose a shield instead of a different Avengers object.
"Well, I couldn't make a suit of armor," he said.

Grant's shield. (A.Abad-Santos)
6:25 pm: The first unexpected horror strikes.
Going into the Marathon, I had a vague strategy. I would invest in the $7 Avengers cup that would allow me free refills throughout the duration of the Marathon. I smuggled in a chocolate protein bar and a water bottle. I packed a pair of yoga pants, as spending 32 hours in real clothes did not make sense. These were all solid decisions.

This is my refillable cup with a Thor topper. (A.Abad-Santos)
But one thing I didn't expect or plan for: this Marathon would feature an emcee.
Our emcee worked to rev up the crowd and hand out posters for movies that came out years ago. In order to win these posters, you had to answer "trivia" questions and laugh at his jokes. I'm all for trivia. Trivia is fun. Trivia can teach you things.
This was not trivia.
"What is the name of the actor who plays Star Lord in Guardians of the Galaxy? That's the movie you just saw," he would ask us the next day.
This question, of course, is not "trivia," so much as it is "paying attention to the credits" or "having read an entertainment publication at any time in the past two years."
Imagine these questions happening after every other movie for 29 hours. Imagine this happening at 3:45 am.
Marvel
Iron Man. (Marvel)
8:54 pm: Iron Man remains a wickedly good film. Even though it takes place in a world where MySpace is still a dominant cultural force, it holds up well. It's exhilarating to watch Robert Downey Jr. as Tony Stark. Seeing him fly in that armor suit for the first time is a joyous experience.
Just minutes after Iron Man finishes, the first audible belch is heard. It's a horn played before battle.
I wasn't expecting decorum. After all, everyone is ignoring their motor skills while digging into paper tubs of popcorn and slurping syrupy brown liquids out of bottomless plastic cups.
But this is the kind of belch that is only produced in the company of friends. Maybe we're all about to become friends, some sort of brothers and sisters in battle kind of thing. Probably not.
I change into yoga pants and take advantage of my first refill. I figured I need around four refills to turn the cup into an "investment", but I also want to be able to get to sleep. This, I decide, will be my final refill until 11 am.
The wardrobe change and soda pit stop don't last long enough. I catch the tail end of the emcee giving out old posters. He asks the audience to "dance" and "be excited," and says he'll only pick the most spirited fans to answer his "trivia."
All superhero tales need arch-nemeses. It seems I have found mine. (To be clear, I fully believe this man is probably a good man, and that he was just doing his job.)
The Incredible Hulk. (Marvel/Universal)
We've reached the Marathon's most daunting segment. The Incredible Hulk and Iron Man 2 — two of the weaker entries — show back to back. Since I can't sleep during The Incredible Hulk, I try to figure out how Edward Norton (as Bruce Banner) spends the entire movie passing out without being mugged or robbed.
11:12 pm: As it turns out, sleeping in a movie chair is aggressively uncomfortable.
The space in front of you is narrow, making it hard to stretch out your legs. The recline isn't forgiving. And the arms are too low to prop anything on — a terrible situation for side-sleepers.

Iron Man 2. (Marvel)
Hulk has battered me into submission. I somehow sleep through a good chunk of Iron Man 2 — my notebook is bare, my pen is on the ground, and I think I woke myself up with a snore. The one thing I remember is how disturbing I find Mickey Rourke's fingernails in this movie. Oh, and Black Widow's fight scene is fantastic.
1:42 am: How lonely this entire exercise is — not just for those of us who attended solo, but also for people who came in groups. You don't talk much, other than say how it's going (not great). You sit quietly for another two hours (unless you're snoring), then repeat the whole sequence over again.

Thor. (Marvel)
3:17 am: At least four people in my general vicinity snore during Thor. Still awake, I actually enjoy Thor because it feels like a little palate cleanser when flanked against the irreverence of the Iron Man movies. The Asgardians' long, Shakespearean monologues contrast nicely with the sharp, terse pace of Iron Man's characters.
The true star of these movies is Tom Hiddleston's Loki, who slithers into every crag of the film, weaving a veil of deceit and discontent that underscores the entire movie. Even when Thor has won, you feel like his winning moment could slip out of his grasp at any time. That's how potent Hiddleston is.
4:12 am: The theater announces concession sales will halt for one hour between 5:15 and 6:15 am so cash registers can be reset. This is hopefully the first and last time I'm ever at a theater long enough to hear this warning.
The staff members at United Artists are saints. They could have easily been cranky, considering the hours they were working, but they smiled, filled up our gigantic cups with more high-fructose corn syrup and our tubs with more popcorn, then sent us on our way to tackle the beast.
4:13 am: The emcee returns. He wants to "get us pumped" ... at 4:13 am. This is somehow not a nightmare.

Captain America. (Marvel)
4:39 am: Peggy Carter (Hayley Atwell) is one of the best things about Captain America: The First Avenger, and I don't think I realized it when I watched it the first time. Captain America felt like filler to me back when I first saw it. I couldn't take emaciated Chris Evans seriously, the hyper-nostalgic stylizing didn't sit well with me, and the villains weren't charismatic.
I doubt Marvel planned it this way, but you gain a whole new appreciation for this film when you've watched Agent Carter and Captain America: Winter Solider. You begin to relish the time you see Atwell on screen, and you start analyzing Steve Rogers's (Evans) relationship with Bucky Barnes (Sebastian Stan) more closely, looking for hints of Bucky's later villainy. You also realize how changed Steve is in later movies, how scarred he is by being taken from his time and deposited in ours.
4:47 am: How much better would this be if we subbed in a few episodes of Agent Carter for some of the weaker entries in the Marathon?
4:57 am: The world has sped up. Time and the calendar have no meaning. There is only the screen.

The Avengers. (Marvel)
6:50 am — 8:30 am: Somewhere between The Avengers and Iron Man 3, I may have had a mental breakdown. A real Flowers for Algernon moment stands out in my notes:

This is Yellow Wallpaper territory. (A.Abad-Santos)
"Should have worn a hat," my notes say. I can remember looking at a portly little man in the row across from me, envying how peaceful he looked while sleeping. He had put his hat over his face, blocking out the lights. How I wanted to snatch his little hat and take it as my own!
I am starving. Something on the movie theater menu must make an acceptable breakfast. Perhaps the hot dog. Breakfast isn't "real," I realize. It is only a lie we tell ourselves. You can absolutely have a hot dog for breakfast if you want it enough.
Looking back, I also realize I didn't actually procure said hot dog. I just thought about it.
9:02 am: The theater begins to smell like a room full of gassy moviegoers who haven't showered. Controversy brews. There is no rhyme or reason to why the air conditioner keeps turning on and off, and it's getting warmer and warmer — and smellier and smellier.
Someone grumbles this is because of the first-row prima donnas. They're allegedly complaining about the theater being too cold, prompting management to shut down the A/C. The theater has now been divided between back rows and front.
I don't know if these allegations are true, but they instantly make this Marathon much more interesting. The Hunger Games could break out at any second.
9: 17 am: I want to brush my teeth:

My desires are unconventional. (A.Abad-Santos)

Iron Man 3. (Marvel)
11:45 am: I am not sure how many times I've fallen asleep or how long I've slept for. Probably around two hours. Rebecca Hall is in Iron Man 3, and it reminds me of the point in time when she was supposed to be Hollywood's next It Girl. That's my primary takeaway from the film, which suggests I missed much of it.
I remember I forgot to have that hot dog for breakfast. Instead, I opt for a spicy chicken sandwich with fries. Ketchup doesn't help. Neither do pickles. It tastes like the color brown.
Though disappointed in my food choices, I get another refill (number two) to make sure I am getting my money's worth in soda. I remind myself that if I can get through Thor: The Dark World, I'll be treated to my two favorite Marvel films: Captain America: The Winter Soldier and Guardians of the Galaxy.

Thor: The Dark World. (Marvel)
Thor: The Dark World gets a lot of hate.
I'm not sure why this is. I wouldn't say it's as good as Guardians, Winter Soldier, or Iron Man. But it's definitely better than the latter Iron Man films, better than the first Thor, and light years ahead of The Incredible Hulk.
I wonder if it's because Thor (Chris Hemsworth) is a bit of an invincible lunk. The films try to make him as human as possible in order to diminish that part of him — for a god who can control the weather, he doesn't use his lightning powers nearly enough. If Thor felt more free to use his godlike powers, would his movies be more fun?
2:07 pm: I think about changing back into regular-person pants to finish off the marathon like a serviceable human being, but quickly scoff at this idiotic notion. I get a refill and switch up Sprite for Coke. My teeth feel fuzzy.

Captain America: Winter Solider. (Marvel)
2:32 pm: "Soldier vs. Spy," I write down.
This dynamic carries the movie. Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson) and Steve Rogers have completely different ways of looking at the world. She sleeps with one eye open. He believes in the good of the government and the inherent good of people.
And together they have to deal with the realization that something they both believed in — a rarity in this world — is a complete sham. You see him sadly lose faith in people. You see her learn to trust. They meet somewhere in the middle.
Winter Soldier gives me a second wind. It's a fantastic film, one that sets up Ultron so well. My teeth still feel gross, and I want to wash my face. But this movie has done the impossible — I feel like a human again.

Guardians of the Galaxy. (Marvel)
4:35 pm: I leave the theater. Not because Guardians is a bad movie — I leave because I've seen the movie at least seven times since it came out. I need fresh air. I need daylight. I find a Shake Shack and have the hot dog I deserve, not the one simply on offer.
4:57 pm: It's a beautiful day out. I could enjoy it, walk away from all of this.
I don't. I walk back into the theater.
5:51 pm: My favorite part of any Marvel movie is when the Nova Corps shows up in Guardians of the Galaxy.
The battle looks lost. Necrocrafts pour out of the Dark Aster, stopping Star Lord and his crew from infiltrating the hull of the ship. But then, out of nowhere, the majestic Nova Corps shows up, blasting the Necros out of the sky to give Star Lord the cover he needs.
The corps combine to make a wall of energy to stop the Dark Aster.

Oh my god, this scene is so good. (Marvel)
I laugh. My eyes water with joy. I get goosebumps. It's a perfect scene.
Even in my loopy, sleep-deprived state this movie has the power to pull me back and make me so irrationally happy. It's moments like this that have made Marvel Studios the pop culture force it is.
6:20 pm: Age of Ultron is the only movie standing in the way. I ask Grant how he's holding up.
"It's harder than I expected," he tells me, saying he left the theater during Avengers to go sleep in his car. I hadn't noticed.
"I know what you mean. This emcee is just the worst. I just wish we could get rid of him," I reply.
Grant is silent. At this point, I realize Grant is afraid of being honest with me. I have misjudged our Marathon kinship. Grant wants a poster. I hope Grant gets a poster, but I also hope Grant understands that the emcee is the worst person on the planet at this moment.
6:45 pm: I get my fourth refill. My cup is officially worth at least the $7 I spent on it.
6:59 pm: I realize I could have flown to Asia and back in the time I've spent in auditorium seven at the United Artists King of Prussia multiplex.
Marvel Studios
Marvel Studios
Avengers: Age of Ultron. (Marvel)
I'm not sure if Age of Ultron is a better movie than its predecessor. The fight scenes, while awesome, don't have the snap and crackle of the first film. They feel almost clinical. We know what to expect, and there's a sense of boxes being checked off.
But where the film pushes past the first Avengers is in its heightened sense of consequence, especially in the stories of Hawkeye (Jeremy Renner) and Scarlet Witch (Elizabeth Olsen). Both have a family, both have a sense of fear, and both could easily be crippled or put down by an errant laser beam — aside from Black Widow, you don't really get that feeling from other Avengers.
There's also a beautiful symmetry with the Scarlet Witch — a.k.a. Wanda Maximoff — being a product of Stark Industries' double-dealing with criminals and warlords. It nods to the first Iron Man, when Tony realized that his weapons have been used by terrorists and have created others. Wanda's country and home are attacked by people using Stark weapons, just like the villains in Iron Man.
This connection to the past wouldn't have been as poignant had I not rewatched Iron Man. I had seen Ultron by itself during an earlier press screening, and little glimmers like that didn't hit me until this viewing.
"Everyone creates the thing they dread," Ultron says in the movie, driving this point home.
I wonder if I've ever created anything I've later come to hate. Pitching coverage of this Marathon comes to mind.
9:45 pm: I don't stay for the mid-credits scene in Age of Ultron. I book an Uber to go to my hotel in Philadelphia, and head into the lobby, where Avengers fans are lining up for the Thursday-night showing. They're vibrant, bounding with energy. I'm a smelly husk of a human.
I hobble into my Uber. My driver, Michael, sees the crowd in the lobby.
"Avengers, right?" he asks.
"Yup."
"Did you see it? What'd you think?"
Part of me wants to tell Michael all about the Marathon, boast of my accomplishment, and tell him how much I hate the emcee. I want to tell him about Grant and his 10 am pilgrimage and the endless sodas. I want to explain why I'm wearing yoga pants.
But I'm hesitant.
I don't want to come off as crazier than I look. I'm not sure Michael would understand. I'm also not confident I can put together words into sentences. Tonight, my victory will be a private one.
"It was … pretty good."
WATCH: 'The entire Marvel cinematic universe in 13 minutes'
In theaters around the world, a robot named Ultron is trying to destroy humanity. He's the star of Avengers: Age of Ultron and the apocalyptic embodiment of the singularity — the moment when artificial intelligence exceeds human intelligence.
Today's Ultron is undoubtedly influenced by the intellectual outlook of people like Ray Kurzweil, the biggest living popularizer of the concept (which, in turn, came after a 1993 Vernor Vinge lecture that used the term). Kurzweil and many other contemporary philosophers probably led to the Ultron we see on screen.

But the evil robot appeared in comics long before that: in 1968, when computers were as large as a room. Ultron's essence played off science fiction — and scientific concepts — proposed since the 18th century. People were already worried about AI let loose, thanks to the work of some trailblazing thinkers.
This is an 1834 version of Babbage's Difference Engine, one of the first computers.
Science & Society Picture Library/Getty Images
Way back in 1794, mathematician Nicolas de Condorcet wrote about how machines might exceed the progress of the human mind. But it was the scenario put forth in Samuel Butler's 1872 novel Erewhon that might be the most influential.
Erewhon was adapted from an article, "Darwin Among the Machines," in which Butler espoused a standard singularity fear: that robots would take over:
Assume for the sake of argument that conscious beings have existed for some twenty million years: see what strides machines have made in the last thousand!  May not the world last twenty million years longer?  If so, what will they not in the end become?  Is it not safer to nip the mischief in the bud and to forbid them further progress?
Butler lived in a post–Industrial Revolution era, when the prevalence of factories and railroads prompted a lot of examination of machines' increasing influence. That made Erewhon a popular success and a template for how to think about the rise of the machines.
As computers advanced from simple adding machines to devices able to do more complex calculations, those fears about the singularity only worsened. Alan Turing himself later referenced Butler's novel in his own singularity predictions, writing, "At some stage therefore we should have to expect the machines to take control in the way that is mentioned in Samuel Butler's Erewhon."
A young Alan Turing.
Hulton Archive/Getty Images
In 1951, Turing presented a paper titled "Intelligent Machinery: A Heretical Theory." Though Turing became famous for cracking codes in World War II, inventing early computers, and setting the groundwork for the Turing Test (which artificial intelligence can pass by successfully seeming to be human), he also introduced the concept of singularity to a large popular audience.
"It would not take long to outstrip our feeble powers"
As Turing wrote in "Intelligent Machinery," he imagined a theoretical computer that experienced an exponential increase in intelligence. Through learning by experience, the machine could go from simple to complex in a matter of moments. Turing wrote in the conclusion of his paper, "It seems probable that once the machine thinking method had started, it would not take long to outstrip our feeble powers."
Shortly after the paper's publication, Turing spoke about it on the BBC network Third Programme, and that excited a broader contemporary debate about the singularity (though much of the public focused on the unique abilities of humans rather than the threat of an AI takeover).
That theme was later taken up by Turing's colleague Irving (I. J.) Good, who worked with him as a cryptologist during World War II (decoding the famous Enigma machine). Good's papers "Speculations Concerning the First Ultraintelligent Machine" and "Logic of Man and Machine," both published in 1965, furthered the conversation about the singularity and put a finer point on the potential threat of robots: smart machines could build smarter machines.
As Good wrote in "Speculations Concerning the First Ultraintelligent Machine":
Let an ultraintelligent machine be defined as a machine that can far surpass all the intellectual activities of any man however clever. Since the design of machines is one of these intellectual activities, an ultra-intelligent machine could design even better machines; there would then unquestionably be an 'intelligence explosion,' and the intelligence of man would be left far behind.
He then goes on to explain why computers will end up being better than humans at ... almost everything.
Ultron's mask comes off in Avengers No. 55.
Marvel
We know that these ideas quickly gained currency in the wider world, specifically in science fiction circles. Stanley Kubrick hired Goode as a consultant on 1968's 2001: A Space Odyssey. That movie featured its own malevolent AI, HAL, which fit in a science fiction landscape in which robots were becoming increasingly popular. And that doubtless set the stage for a comic book robot, especially since 2001 came out three months before Ultron showed up.
Ultron was a mishmash of influences: pop psychology played a big part, as did the psychological issues of Ultron's creator, Henry Pym, also known as Ant-Man (in the current movie, Ultron's creator is Tony Stark). The writers have also said that Ultron's physical appearance was inspired by a character called Mechano from Captain Video. But it was still an unmistakably paranoid vision of the singularity: in an early flashback, the robot exponentially progressed in intelligence, calling its creator "Da Da," then "Dad," and finally "Father" within a matter of seconds.
By using Henry Pym's brain patterns as a starting point, Ultron followed the template of old stories in which inanimate objects might be possessed by human consciousness, like Pinocchio or Frankenstein. But Ultron also incorporated the modern fear in which machines developed their own consciousness: the singularity.
Ultron unplugs himself from the system.
Marvel
The creation of Ultron was a collaborative project, and his success was collaborative, as well. It would be absurd to argue that both Ultron's real-life creators and comic book readers had plowed through the academic papers of Irving Good or been schooled in the classic vision of Erewhon. Those influences, however, involved ideas that rippled through the public consciousness in many ways, from science fiction to politics. Ultron succeeded because the concepts resonated so clearly.
And because of the quickly evolving ideas about the singularity, the vision of Ultron that took over was the one in which he was a representation of the growing presence — and potential threat — of artificial intelligence. It's that unique philosophical grounding that makes him resonant, and frightening, today.
Update: A reader notes that any history of robotic singularity paranoia would be incomplete without a mention of R.U.R. (Rossum's Universal Robots). The 1920 play is generally credited with inventing the word "robot" and as an early portrayal of robots taking over.
With song-of-summer debates on the horizon, artists released their slower, more full-hearted songs in April. If March was a month for heavy emotional hits, April has been a month for sweetening up the pain with songs like Carly Rae Jepsen's "All That" and Torres's "Cowboy Guilt."
Here are the top five songs of April:
Carly Rae Jepsen is as sugar-sweet as pop stars come. Her 2012 mammoth hit "Call Me Maybe" was such an earworm that it spawned a wave of lip-synced videos, and the first single from her upcoming third album "I Really Like You" hit all of the same upbeat, furiously catchy notes.
"All That" takes the rhythm of those two songs and turns the dial back a few decades to a 1980s-esque, slap bass pop ballad. It has almost the same rhythm and tone as Britney Spears's 1999 "Sometimes," which is to say it's lyrically pretty weak but sonically sticky. "Show me if you want me, if I'm all that," Jepsen croons in the chorus. It's not as much of an earworm as "Call Me Maybe," but it shows a maturation in Jepsen's writing and tone that can't be dismissed easily.


The first single from U.S. Girls' upcoming album 4D is a shuffle-grooving, electro-popped grunge hit. "Damn That Valley" has all the wailing, echoing vocals that lead singer Meghan Remy nailed on 2012's Gem, but here they feel a bit more evolved, with a stronger vocal dissonance and backing electronica that really allow Remy's voice to soar higher than it has before.
At just over three minutes, "Damn That Valley" sounds like the underground version of a Top 40 hit. "That’s the valley that took my man from me," Remy screams in the chorus of a song with as much distress as hooking beats.


"Constantly Hating" confronts some of the most prominent features of hip-hop and turns them on their head. Instead of hitting you with an up-front, aggressive beat, the song's bass drum feels like it's coming from another room. Rather than boasting fast-talking rap, Young Thug draws out a few melodies, keeping his vocals slower.
In contrast to his earlier work, Young Thug feels more mature here. His lyrics are more precise, his beats are thicker, and the addition of Birdman's section makes this song sound like both 1999 Lil Wayne and some hip-hop movement we haven't even encountered yet.


Torres is the artist I'm paying the most attention to in 2015. Every single she's released off her sophomore album Sprinter has been a giant leap in maturity and style. "Cowboy Guilt" takes a sharp turn from the punk-rooted "Strange Hellos" and veers deeper into singer Mackenzie Scott's personal life. It starts with a thumping bass beat, then layers in a climbing electronic melody.
"We spend our only season on a mattress sleeping / with our best friend / We drowned out winter livers with weary resignation," Scott sings mellowly, creating a kind of deep, rhythmic ballad inside the modernist sounds. Meanwhile, Scott's voice itself drowns under the beats she has created.

Samantha Urbani, formerly of the band Friends, kicked out this funk-inspired pop hit on SoundCloud in early April. It's a song with the groove of an '80s pop hit and the spunk of a young Madonna. If Taylor Swift's 1989 was merely inspired by '80s pop, Urbani's "1 2 3 4" straight up is '80s pop.
There are glistening keyboards and light synths. There are strange disco drums and plenty of grooving beats that are perfect for the dance floor. In the middle of "1 2 3 4," there's an instrumental break that sounds like you're drifting under water, only to return you to fresh air with the thumping chorus and Urbani's voice swooning. It's the '80s revival we didn't know we wanted.


For more great tracks from 2015, check out our lists of March songs,  February songs, and January songs. Listen to all of the best songs of 2015 here:

When Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao fight this Saturday in Las Vegas at 11:30 pm ET, it'll be the biggest boxing match in decades.
After years of delays, backroom negotiations, and anticipation, the two biggest stars in boxing will face each other for the first time. In an era when boxing's prominence is fading, this is one of few matches in recent memory to pop up on the mainstream radar.
This means non-boxing fans might be hearing a lot about an idiosyncratic, oftentimes confusing sport. In boxing, after all, matches are negotiated by the athletes, to be broadcast for a huge fee, with a mysterious agglomeration of different championship titles at stake. These seven numbers will help you make sense of the fight — and the sport as a whole.

Manny Pacquiao celebrates are defeating Oscar De La Hoya in 2008. (JEWEL SAMAD/AFP/Getty Images)
This is how long it's been since Mayweather and Pacquiao were first tentatively scheduled to fight, in March 2010.
Back then, Mayweather was a dominant figure who'd recently defeated the legendary Oscar De La Hoya. He then retired, only to return to boxing with another resounding victory. Pacquiao was an undersized fighter who'd become a national hero in his native Philippines with a string of surprising upsets, including his own defeat of De La Hoya the year prior. The two boxers had become the sport's best-known figures, and their representatives reportedly came close to agreeing on the terms for a marquee fight.
there are no tournaments forcing top boxers to compete
But boxing isn't like other sports. There are no playoffs or tournaments forcing the best teams or players to compete. Instead, boxers negotiate all the terms of a fight, much like political candidates hashing out the mundane details of a televised debate. And negotiations for the 2010 fight fell apart over drug testing: Mayweather reportedly wanted blood drawn the day before the fight, and Pacquiao, who claimed to be afraid of needles, wanted only urine testing during the 30 days before the bout. Mayweather accused him of doping, and a defamation lawsuit ensued.
It took five more years — which included a pair of losses for Pacquiao — for the fight to finally happen. Now both boxers are in their late 30s, and many fans say they're well past their prime. Still, they're two of the best boxers in the world, and certainly the top two in their weight class (welterweight, which goes from 140 to 147 pounds).

Mayweather, holding lots of cash. (Ethan Miller/Getty Images)
This is the projected total earnings to be split between Mayweather and Pacquiao, easily an all-time record. It'll mostly come from pay-per-view revenues, ticket sales, and sponsorships.
Mayweather is reportedly guaranteed $120 million, while Pacquiao is only guaranteed $80 million. They'll both end up getting more than that (with the exact number based on pay-per-view sales), but regardless, Mayweather will take home most of it — and it doing so will remain the world's highest-paid athlete.
The difference is mostly due to the fact that Mayweather is the bigger draw (in boxing, this is called the "A-side"), as he typically brings in more money through pay-per-view. He's also undefeated throughout his career.
As a result, Pacquiao had more to gain by fighting Mayweather than vice versa, giving Mayweather more leverage during the negotiations. If the pair had fought back in 2010, the purse would have reportedly been split 50-50, but the two fighters are no longer on level ground. Mayweather is considered the favorite.

(Comcast)
This is the amount you'll need to pay to see this fight in HD on TV (it's $89.99 for standard definition). An estimated 3 million to 4 million homes are expected to pay to tune in.
Unlike most sports in the US, boxing's biggest matches aren't available on broadcast TV or even cable. Starting in the 1980s, fight organizers began selling TV rights to companies that sold the fights directly to subscribers for increasingly high prices.
"it hurts the sport because it narrows our audience"
In the short term, this arrangement makes sense for fighters, promoters, and TV networks (including HBO, which carries most of boxing's biggest fights today). They can make way more through pay-per-view than through selling the TV rights to networks that would broadcast the bouts for free, supported by commercials.
But in the long term, pay-per-view is cutting off new fans from boxing matches and is one of the biggest factors in the decline of the sport. Viewers can simply watch other sports for free — and they are.
"I can't tell you that pay-per-view helps the sport, because it doesn't. It hurts the sport because it narrows our audience, but it's a fact of life," then–HBO Sports president Ross Greenburg told Thomas Hauser for his 2008 book The Boxing Scene. "But if HBO stopped doing pay-per-view, the promoters would simply do it on their own."

MGM Grand Garden Arena, during a fight in March. (Alex Trautwig/Getty Images)
This is currently the average resale price for a ticket to the bout at the MGM Grand casino in Las Vegas — again, easily an all-time record.
Tickets originally went on sale for prices ranging from $1,500 to $10,000. But the resale market has been especially hot because very few tickets ever went on sale to the public. The venue seats nearly 17,000 people, but about 16,500 were directly given to sponsors, the fight promoters, casino high rollers, and the fighters themselves for friends and family. This left a tiny number of tickets for a large number of rich people who wanted to attend — and they sold out within 60 seconds.
The crazy prices, though, also reflect a huge amount of pent-up interest in this long-awaited fight. Tickets for the weigh-in — an event at which the two fighters are weighed, do some talking, and go back home — went for an average of $155.

Mayweather is led away to serve a three-month jail sentence in 2010. (David Becker/Getty Images)
It's impossible — and irresponsible — to talk about this fight without mentioning Mayweather's lengthy and appalling history of violence against women. He has been accused of assault seven different times, by five different women, as detailed in this harrowing piece by Louisa Thomas at Grantland.
Mayweather has pleaded guilty twice, serving brief jail sentences both times. In other instances, he's benefited from his accusers changing their stories before or during the trial, insisting that Mayweather was merely holding them back as they attacked him. In the most well-known instance, in 2010, Mayweather allegedly showed up at his ex-girlfriend's house at 5 am, punched her in the head, and tried to break her arm. When their 9- and 10-year-old children entered the room, he threatened to hit them if they left the house or called the police.
The fact is that Mayweather, the world's highest-paid athlete, has gotten relatively little punishment during his history as a serial abuser of women. Some are calling for people to boycott the fight over it, but this story still isn't getting nearly as much attention as it should be.

Mayweather and Pacquiao, with one of several belts on the line. (Ethan Miller/Getty Images)
This is the number of championships at stake in this fight: the welterweight titles as decided by the World Boxing Council, the World Boxing Organization, and the World Boxing Association.
The fact that three championship titles exist for the exact same weight class might be the most bizarre aspect of boxing. And there are actually more: in total, there are 111 belts for 17 weight classes, handed out by a mess of different organizations.
Over the years, these for-profit organizations (and many others) have proliferated, each creating their own rankings and championships. And as these groups gain credibility, fighters pay them fees to sanction fights.
over the years, sanctioning organizations have proliferated
To most boxing fans, this has ultimately rendered all of them meaningless (and, some say, has also helped kill the popularity of the sport). "Belts are a dime a dozen, meaningless straps churned out by meaningless sanctioning bodies in order to collect a portion of each paper champion's purse," Connor Ruebusch at SB Nation's Bad Left Hook writes.
But many fans pay more attention to a non-sanctioned idea: that of lineal championships, which can be earned only by beating the fighter who previously held the lineal championship. Because Mayweather beat "Sugar" Shane Mosley in 2010, he currently holds the lineal welterweight crown.
To Ruebusch, this crown gives this fight more importance than any number of belts. "The wearers of the crowns — there are eight currently in the sport — are the closest things boxing has left to true champions," he writes.

Mayweather hits Marcos Maidana during a May 2014 fight. (JOHN GURZINSKI/AFP/Getty Images)
This is how long the fight will probably last.
During each three-minute round, if one fighter knocks the other down and he can't get up before the referee counts to 10, the fight is over in a knockout. It can also end in a technical knockout (TKO), if the referee, doctor, or either fighter's corner calls the fight for safety reasons.
In all likelihood, though, it'll go the full 12 rounds, to be scored by a panel of three judges to determine the winner. The scoring system is extremely complicated, but in short, the judges will decide which boxer won each round, and the guy who won more rounds (according to the majority of the judges) is declared the victor. If all three judges split the rounds equally between both boxers, the fight is a draw.
WATCH: SB Nation's fight night preview show
The Avengers sequel, Age of Ultron, opens in theaters today. In preparation for the movie, here's a look at all the clues from the the bevy of trailers Marvel has released for this cinematic event:

To watch the full Avengers trailers and read more analysis, here's the teaser trailer (released in October 2014) and the latest trailer.
Take a look at this terrific infographic of upcoming superhero films from the good folks at Comics Alliance:

A list of upcoming superhero films. (ComicsAlliance.com)
I look at this list and see a long list of chores
And that image is missing some things. It doesn't include the many, many, many superhero TV shows on the air or in various stages of development. And it doesn't include other geek-friendly properties in active development as films, like new Star Wars films, the upcoming Godzilla sequel, or Warner Brothers' new movies in the Harry Potter universe.
Yet graphics like this one have sent many into paroxysms of joy. One friend of mine crowed that it's never been a better time to be a pop culture geek.
And yet I look at this list — even as a pop culture geek — and see something almost dutiful. I look at this list and see a long list of chores I'll just have to eventually get to.
Don't get me wrong. I'm going to see every single one of these films. I am probably going to enjoy most of them, on one level or another. Marvel Studios has made only one outright bad film — the second Iron Man — and while the output from Fox, Sony, and DC has been spottier, I have a great affection for many of those characters. Plus, I'd be lying if I said that I'm not excited for the Captain Marvel film — especially if Katee Sackhoff somehow ends up with the part.
I'm not even upset about the idea of spoilers here. Arguably, knowing that the relationship between Captain America and Tony Stark is building toward a huge battle between the two in the former's third film makes me more interested to see that film. One of the things that's interesting to me about the new mega-franchise storytelling is the way that it works in bits and pieces of other stories as fillips around the edges of the main tale. It reminds me of my beloved television, and Marvel is doing nothing if not making a huge, exciting TV show that we tune into every few months.
Marvel is doing nothing if not making a huge, exciting TV show that we tune into every few months
No, what I'm reacting to here, I think, is the way that these sorts of lists and master plans remove whatever capacity geek cinema has to surprise us. I like to think back to the visceral thrill I felt at watching Robert Downey, Jr., revive his career in that first Iron Man, or the way that Heath Ledger lit up the screen in The Dark Knight in ways we hadn't quite expected. Or looking beyond superhero movies, think of the way Pixar's Wall-E carefully hid from audiences that it was essentially a silent film for half its running time, or how the Lord of the Rings movies simply and perfectly deposited you in a world that had yet to be ruined by hype saturation.
See, to me, Marvel's never made a great movie. It's come close — both of the Avengers movies, as well as the second Captain America are all terrific examples of the form — but inevitably, the stories revert to the company's "three big fights, laced with shallow character stories and snarky humor" formula and devolve into an ending where a bunch of things created in a computer hit each other with other things created in a computer. And DC's attempts to begin its own mega-franchise — beginning with the ham-fisted Man of Steel — simply come off as laughable.
Neither company has much room for directorial expression in their films, with talented folks ultimately making movies that get sucked into the same formulas over and over again. This has been compared to the dominance of Westerns in Hollywood in the ‘50s, but, c'mon. Can you point to a superhero version of The Searchers? Hell, can you point to a superhero version of Stagecoach? We may be evolving in the right direction, as Avengers: Age of Ultron, which is unquestionably a Joss Whedon film, shows, but only by millimeters.
No, what Marvel, especially, is very good at doing is churning out product and keeping it just enough above the quality line that we'll go back for more. That list of films above might as well be a list of fast-food hamburgers we'll be eating for the rest of the decade.
It's this, I think, that makes me feel that sense of duty, that grumbling notion that I'm about to do my chores. Yes, we've always made checklists of films to see, whether to get a better understanding of the medium's history or to, say, get caught up on the best films of the year before the Oscars arrive.
It has nothing to do with being surprised and everything to do with being kept in a state of vague anticipation for a half-decade
The difference here is that this is a list of films we are going to see, a list of films we had better start planning our lives around right now, if we are going to be good movie geeks. It has nothing to do with being surprised and everything to do with being kept in a state of vague anticipation for a half-decade before watching a movie that will inevitably result in a mild feeling of anticlimax. It has everything to do with taking that surprise and leeching all of it out of our moviegoing experience, bit by bit, until finally seeing the movie is just the last chore on the list. It's a Christmas morning when we don't just know the packages but have gotten done playing with them ages ago.
Don't read this as some sort of screed that mega-franchises are killing the movies. They're here to stay, obviously, and I have high hopes for what they'll accomplish in the future. There are amazing little indie films being made every month, and some great moments of direction sneaking into the largest of blockbusters. There are ingenious takes on superpowers and great directors and screenwriters smuggling surprisingly pointed work into novel adaptations the studio probably only half paid attention to. Yes, franchises are taking over Hollywood, but it doesn't have to be a bad thing.

This is not as simple as saying, "If you don't like these movies, don't go see them!" It's more complicated than that. It's about getting trapped in these never-ending, concentric circles of hype. It's about trying to escape the constant feeling that everything is buzz for something else — even the movies themselves. And it's about avoiding, at all costs, a world where there are no actual movies, only the suggestion of other, better movies over the horizon.
Seven in 10 Americans are disengaged from their jobs, according to Gallup. That's more than two-thirds of us who are unfulfilled by our work, just dragging our sorry selves to and from the office every day.
One community has an attractive answer: just quit.
A burgeoning online community advocates early retirement. And they're not talking about people quitting in their 50s or early 60s. They mean retiring before age 40 — perhaps even in their 20s.
Over the past few months, I've interviewed seven people who have managed to leave the working world before age 40. That seems like a crazy idea to most people, but these extreme retirees insist it's something everyone should consider. What they all understand — and what they wish other people understood — is that achieving financial freedom isn't just about budgeting or clipping coupons; it's about reconsidering your core values.
The basic framework of early retirement is pretty simple: cut way down on your spending, then invest your savings. High savings rates can lead to surprisingly fast retirements. For example, if you save half your income, you'll be ready to retire in around 17 years.
And the best place to start on cutting costs isn't with coupons or thrift stores; it's with the big purchases. The lion's share of savings in early retirement come from what Jeremy Jacobson calls "the big three": housing, transportation, and food.
"While many of my coworkers were maybe leasing a new BMW SUV, I sold my car and started riding my bike. And when one of my coworkers was spending $50,000 remodeling his kitchen, we moved into a small apartment that was in a very walkable neighborhood," says Jacobson, who along with his wife, Winnie Tseng, blogs about the early retirement life at Go Curry Cracker. Likewise, he says, Tseng learned how to cook well enough that they started eating out far less.
The approach of cutting back on these three areas makes sense when you look at how American households spend their money. The average home in 2013 spent $51,100, according to the Labor Department, and together, shelter, transportation, and food accounted for nearly two-thirds of that. For most households, these are the places with the biggest opportunities for savings.
Once households have cut back on those huge expenses, the other part is making that saved money earn more money.
How do you know when you're ready to retire? Many of the retirees I spoke to rely on the "4 percent rule," a common rule of thumb that retirees can safely withdraw 4 percent of their savings each year without exhausting their principal. Jacobson and Tseng estimated they'd need $1.2 million saved up. The couple that blogs at Frugalwoods estimated they'd need $1.4 million. This gives each of those couples something like $50,000 to $60,000 to spend annually.
Mr. Money Mustache, the best-known early retirement blogger, has done the math and shown that assuming a 5 percent rate of return, if you save half your take-home income, you can retire in 17 years. If you save even 30 percent, it's 28 years — which might sound like a long time, but if you start at age 22, it means retiring at 50, far earlier than most people do. And this is far less than many extreme early retirees' savings rates. Several of the retirees I spoke with have managed to save 70 percent or more, allowing them to retire in less than 10 years.
Yes, those are all far more than your typical American's savings rate — currently at 5.8 percent of total income — but many Americans (particularly those with above-average incomes) could probably save a lot more than they think, as Vox's Tim Lee wrote earlier this year. The average home is 50 percent larger than it was 30 years ago, so many people could save a lot by downsizing. Transportation costs the average household more than $9,000 a year. Live somewhere near the right bus line or, even better, somewhere walkable, and you can slash that easily.
"If you think about it the person who’s cooking your lunch at a cafe or is serving your coffee ... somehow they’re living or getting by," says Justin McCurry, a 34-year-old former civil engineer who retired a year ago and blogs at Root of Good. "If you figure out how those folks are getting by and emulate that, but you're making middle-income or upper-income salaries, living one step down and saving that surplus left each month — I think that's how you have to do it if you’re in a higher-cost-of-living area."
It of course helps to have some investment savvy — some retirees I spoke with advocated picking a good index fund and avoiding big brokerage fees, for example. But really, aggressive saving is far more important than any investment wizardry, says one early retiree.
"Even if we put 100 percent of our savings into bonds, we still could have achieved it," says Paul Novell, 46, who retired from a career as an electrical engineer at 38 and lives with his wife, Nina Fussing, in an RV (currently they are in Bend, Oregon). Because you don't have a lot of years to work before you retire, he says, aiming for huge returns to create that nest egg is misguided — he considers investing far less important than cutting back on expenses.

How do you save 70 percent of your annual income? Dumpster diving helps. (Frugalwoods)
It's fairly easy to figure out how much you need to save to retire early. The trickier shift is making the lifestyle changes needed to save that kind of money.
It's a much bigger change than just cutting costs here and there. You need to stack a bunch of the savings choices on top of each other — moving to a cheaper neighborhood, cooking all your meals at home, biking to work, buying clothing only rarely, cutting out expensive coffees, not indulging your kids. And when you're done, you'll have a new lifestyle, one that's unorthodox in a consumerist society.
And as people living unconventional lives have done for decades, early retirees seek out kindred spirits online.
"Some of the closest friends we've made are online through the early retirement space because they're the most like-minded," says Mrs. Frugalwoods (the couple requested not to use their real names). "That's a real source of satisfaction and enjoyment for me, and I love being able to reach people and talk to them about the joys frugality can bring you."
Many extreme savers simply love cutting costs, self-sufficiency, and tinkering with a budget. The Frugalwoods couple fits this bill. They do a lot of services for themselves — a concept they call "radical insourcing."
"Earlier this year Mrs. Frugalwoods for the first time allowed me to cut her hair," says Mr. Frugalwoods. "A few YouTube videos and a bottle of wine, and we got it done." (His wife reports she was pleased with the results.)
Their YouTube-fueled self-sufficiency covers not just haircuts but bike repair and pet grooming. Not only that, but the couple rarely buys clothing, dumpster dives occasionally, and spends $0 on entertainment ("Paying for entertainment is like admitting defeat," they have written on their blog). They estimate that they spent around $13,700 last year on non-housing-related expenses. By contrast, the average US household spent more than double that: $34,000.
The majority of people who responded to my request for interviews (I sought out early retirees on Twitter and Reddit) are either current or retired engineers. There is, of course, some logic to this — engineers tend to have higher-than-average salaries — and there could be some self-selection at work in my sample, as well (maybe engineers simply hang out on Reddit a lot). But the retirees themselves believe something else is at work: the need to tweak and fiddle, taking pleasure in the improvements that come from making minor adjustments to their finances.
Novell and Fussing are going on hikes these days instead of going to the office. (Wheeling It)
"I was born as the stereotypical engineer kid, which means I was always interested in optimizing everything. Money was just one of those things," Pete, a.k.a. Mr. Money Mustache, told me earlier this year.
Mr. Frugalwoods, who works as a software engineer, uses his job as an example.
"A lot of what we're doing is all about having a long-term goal and spending our money around the pursuit of that goal and optimizing the crap out of everything else," says Mr. Frugalwoods. "At work I spend a lot of time trying to cut 100 milliseconds off of a webpage load, and that same kind of analytical optimizing mindset plays into this."
Perhaps the most important thing you need for early retirement is an ability to break out of conventional societal programming — the persistent notion that a person has to work for four or five decades and retire at 65 or later to live a productive, fulfilling, "normal" life.
Every single early retiree I spoke with stressed that more people could live like them, but many of us simply never consider the possibility of busting out of our normal ways of life.
"There are probably seven billion different right ways to live. Some people love what they do. Some people would be terrified of an unstructured environment. So there's not a right answer for everybody," says McCurry. "[But] you talk to people sometimes and you know they're not happy with what they're doing with their lives, but at the same time they're not open to the idea of something else."
Jacobson is a prime example of how a person's point of view can shift — in his first few years out of college, he worked hard at paying down student debt but also bought a new car and a house that came with a 40-minute commute. Deciding to try for financial independence meant breaking the keeping-up-with-the-joneses cycle of bigger houses and new cars he fell into by default in his early 20s.
What all of this this means is that early retirement isn't for everyone. While working less and enjoying life more might sound great to most people, it means giving up some things that might genuinely bring you joy — if fancy dinners out on the town and a large house truly bring you more joy than the idea of retiring early, then it makes a lot less sense to retire at 40.
Sometimes the shifts can go beyond even lifestyle changes. Starting a new financial lifestyle can open up an entirely new outlook on your own identity, as Mrs. Frugalwoods knows well.
She's one of the most visible women in the early retirement community — she does the majority of the blogging at Frugalwoods. The process of becoming mindful about her spending, she says, changed how she views her own femininity.
"It's really been a personal journey for me to not worry as much about what people think about me and really gaining confidence and really setting that societal concern and fear about appearance," she says.
She has stopped buying clothing — she says she hasn't bought a new article in 16 months — and no longer wears makeup. What resulted, she says, is a "fantastic transformation," as she has shrugged off the double standards society places on women: now she has a new perspective on what it means to be successful (and, more to the point, how little it has to do with appearance). In the process of being less focused on money, she became less focused on how she looks ... and more aware of who she is.
"Honestly it wasn't so much about being frugal as about being true to myself," she says. "I found ways to just be more confident and happy with what I have and have less of a focus on my appearance, and it has made me into a much more confident person. I'm a better writer [and] employee, and it's made me happier."
Maybe a lot more of us could retire well before 65. But there are certain factors that give certain people a big head start over the rest of us.
One is working in a high-paying industry — and early, says Novell.
"The good-paying job when you're young is critical. If not, the math just never works out," says Novell.
Likewise, having no student debt helps — Novell and Fussing, as well as the Frugalwoods couple, acknowledge that this eased their path to financial independence.
There's another, less obvious factor in many early retirees' success: a lifetime of privilege. The Frugalwoods couple is outspoken on this topic. In one February post, Mrs. Frugalwoods wrote about how having well-educated, middle-class parents set up her and her husband to get educated themselves, take good-paying jobs, and start on the path to early retirement in the first place.
Personal responsibility is a major theme in many financial independence blogs and forums — if people simply take control of their money and their lives, the thinking goes, they can much more easily have an early retirement than they realize. That may be true, she wrote, but she added that "the game is rigged" in their favor and against many others.
The most common term for what these people have done — leaving the working world and pursuing their own interests decades before the rest of us do — is "early retirement," but this phrase is itself the source of heated debate in the community. Plenty of others prefer the term "financial independence," as retirement implies a lifetime of relaxation and nonproductivity. In fact, many early "retirees" end up working again — just not taking traditional jobs they need to do for an income.
"Being freed from having to work to pay the bills, many [early retirees] plan to retire from professional life in the sense of no longer working in that career," as Jacob Lund Fisker writes at Early Retirement Extreme, one of the most popular early retirement blogs.
The goal of early retirement (or financial independence, if that's your phrase of choice) is to be able to have enough money to never have to work again. But that doesn't mean early retirees won't work if they feel like it. The Frugalwoods couple's plan to retire to a farm in Vermont and be as self-sufficient as possible. McCurry, meanwhile, says he might consult on friends' startups, in exchange for equity.
So while it's easy to ask if early retirement wouldn't be just a little boring, Fisker simply lists all the other things you could be doing than sitting in an office.
"[Early retirement] usually means taking up some other activity that is more meaningful to them [than work] but which would be hard to make a living from such as raising children, saving the world, rock climbing, making art, open source programming, writing, etc.," he writes. "It doesn't mean doing nothing."
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and political writer Dylan Matthews. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Libby Nelson: The Massacre of Glencoe scene that Dylan analyzes so well sums up one of Mad Men's most underrated virtues: beneath all the understated character drama and late-'60s anomie, it can be a very funny show, in part because it's not afraid to get a little ridiculous.
One of the reasons I've enjoyed the past two episodes so much is that for all the darkness in "The Forecast," they've both made me laugh — both with visual gags, like Don's patio furniture perched in his living room, and with longer sequences, like Pete's argument with the nursery school director.
When Todd and Dylan say Sterling Cooper & Partners has become a dinosaur, its time passed, it makes me wish that Mad Men had spent more time on the business of advertising in the late 1960s. We used to see Don and Roger struggling with the new generation and the influence of the counterculture, from mocking the Volkswagen "Think Small" campaign to their ill-fated campaign for Jantzen swimwear, which was too provocative for the conservative brand. The introduction of Stan Rizzo and Michael Ginsberg and Joey Baird in the office was thought to signal a generational turnover: these were the people who would make the firm modern.
But Mad Men has virtually abandoned this storyline. Now Stan is the only one left, and the latest iteration of Sterling Cooper is still making the same kind of ads: appeals to emotion, nostalgia, and family. The definition of family might be changing, as Peggy's Burger Chef ad acknowledged. And SC&P's decision to use Pima, the art photographer, to shoot an ad suggests that it's in line with at least some of the trends. (Look at ads from the late 1960s and early 1970s, and it becomes clear that anybody not featuring photography was very behind the times.)
Elsewhere on Madison Avenue, other agencies were co-opting the counterculture
But elsewhere on Madison Avenue, other agencies were co-opting the counterculture. Crest borrowed its slogans. A motor oil company put a peace sign in its print ads. Dodge announced the "Dodge Rebellion." It's not clear whether SC&P has followed this path in its other work, because advertising has receded more and more from the stories Mad Men is telling. The agency's creative work is less central to the plot now than it ever has been. In the first few seasons, the companies Sterling Cooper worked with and the ads it created had more than a symbolic role on the show. But as SC&P's billings grew, the importance of its work to the plot has receded.
That's too bad for a couple of reasons. First, the client work provided some necessary structure among Mad Men's otherwise meandering plotlines. Second, there were some great stories to tell on Madison Avenue in the late 1960s — stories I wish intersected with Mad Men's universe.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, as McCann was acquiring SCDP, an agency called Wells Rich Greene was creating iconic advertising. (One of their clients was Alka-Seltzer; I can sing the "plop, plop, fizz, fizz" jingle because it was stuck in my mom's head for about 30 years. It was that good.) Like SCDP, Wells Rich Greene broke away from an existing industry, and like SCDP it had a lot of clients who weren't market leaders. But this freed up that firm for brash, creative, modern-feeling work.
Its chairman was a woman: Mary Wells, roughly Joan's contemporary, who walked out of Jack Tinker and Partners — a smaller agency within McCann Erickson that was doing some of the era's most exciting work — in 1966 when the group wouldn't give her the presidency due to her gender. She went on to pull off feats Don Draper and Roger Sterling would envy, including winning Ford as an account after a personal conversation with Henry Ford when her agency wasn't even in the running.
Wells Rich Greene, in other words, was everything SCDP wasn't: forward-thinking, counterculture-adapting, future-oriented. Mary Wells was already living Peggy Olson's dream. I love the stories Mad Men has told. But part of me wishes it had been able to stay a bit more grounded on Madison Avenue and engage with how its business was changing beyond the walls of Sterling Cooper.
Read the recap, and come back next week for discussion of the next episode.
Previous entry
Next episode's discussion
The Avengers have assembled.
Cinematic behemoth Avengers: Age of Ultron is upon us, box office records at its feet. It's the culmination of seven years of Marvel movies, a risky cinematic strategy, and, actually, a bit of misfortune.
Before the Avengers were the Avengers, they were Marvel 's JV superhero team. They weren't as cool as the X-Men, and they didn't have the tradition of the Fantastic Four. And there was a point where they weren't worthy enough to be mentioned in the same breath as Superman or Batman.
The Avengers are, in the greatest sense, a comeback story — a story no one at Marvel could have dreamed of writing.
When people talk about the Avengers now, they're most likely referring to the supergroup portrayed in Marvel's 2012 film The Avengers — which consists of Iron Man/Tony Stark (Robert Downey, Jr.), Black Widow/Natasha Romanoff (Scarlett Johansson), the Hulk/Bruce Banner (Mark Ruffalo), Thor (Chris Hemsworth), Hawkeye/Clint Barton (Jeremy Renner), and Captain America/Steve Rogers (Chris Evans).

The Avengers on their movie poster. (Marvel)
The breakdown of the team is as follows:
The Avengers, according to Box Office Mojo, made $623,357,910 domestically and $1.5 billion worldwide. Its $207 million opening weekend is still the highest of all time. A megaton of people saw that movie, and it's become a major pop culture influence.
The film has also changed the movie business. Movies like Iron Man and Captain America fed into the plot of The Avengers, and subsequent movies like Captain America: Winter Solider were affected by the events of the movie. A connected universe of different films was unprecedented when Marvel did it, and now companies like DC and Warner Bros. are following suit.
These movies are based on adventures and characters in Marvel's Avengers comic books. But the movies haven't always been a straight translation. For example, characters like Black Widow, Captain America, and Hawkeye weren't part of Jack Kirby and Stan Lee's squad in Avengers No. 1 (1963):

Avengers No. 1. (Marvel)
The original roster featured the Hulk, Iron Man (looking much different than he does today), the Wasp, Ant-Man, and Thor.
They were heroes with disparate personalities. Thor was a majestic force, constantly using words like "scourge" and "incantations" mid-fight. Ant-Man and the Wasp, a romantic pair, were the slapstick comedic relief; she was always talking about her crushes on other superheroes, and he was always nagging her to snap out of it. Iron Man was an eccentric, egotistical playboy:

Tony Stark wants to know if you have tickets to the gun show. (Marvel)
Kirby and Lee's first Avengers also delved into the theme of the Hulk being an unstoppable and dangerous force who wasn't in control of his own power. The first story is wrapped around the threat of the Hulk and how he might endanger humanity with his strength, even though he doesn't mean to:

Avengers No. 1. (Marvel)
But what's key here isn't actually the Avengers, but the inclusion of the Fantastic Four. When Avengers No. 1 debuted, the Fantastic Four were Marvel's crown jewel — the comic book had saved Marvel from a death spiral and was wildly popular. Lee and Kirby undoubtedly wanted to capture that same success.
The F4 were as much celebrities as they were heroes. So in Avengers No. 1, we see the F4 preoccupied with their own trials, but not before delegating some of their responsibilities to another group of heroes:

The Fantastic Four are too busy for this ish. (Marvel)
This handoff is an implicit seal of approval from the F4. If they trust this group of heroes, everyone else should, too. It also sets up the Avengers to follow the same superhero model as the F4 — they're not really mysterious or distrusted (the way the X-Men or Spider-Man are). Even though their roster has expanded over time, the Avengers will always be heroes you can trust, and they're here to save us all.
The F4-Avengers connection also established that all of these characters exist in the same world. Everything they do in their own comics affects Marvel's universe, and every single comic — Avengers, individual titles, Fantastic Four, X-Men, etc. — is part of one giant continuous narrative, just like the movies.
If we were to travel back in time 15 years, and Marvel had its choice of which heroes to make movies about, the Avengers would probably not be the company's first choice, nor its second, and maybe not even its third. The Avengers were the hand Marvel was dealt.
At the end of the '90s, Marvel was in a heap of financial trouble. The company was teetering on the verge of bankruptcy, and in order to survive, it took a scalpel to its comic book heroes and began selling off their film rights. Sony took Spider-Man, while Fox landed the X-Men and the Fantastic Four. Fox's get was huge, because the X-Men had dominated comic book sales throughout the '90s:
<!--
window.pym || document.write( '<scr' + 'ipt src="http://apps.voxmedia.com/tools/javascripts/vendor/pym-cb3d02c4.js"></scr' + 'ipt>' );
// -->
<!--
var how_the_xmen_dominated_the_avengers_in_comic_book_sales_in_the_90s = new pym.Parent( "how_the_xmen_dominated_the_avengers_in_comic_book_sales_in_the_90s", "http://apps.voxmedia.com/tools/charts-public/?labels=Jan%2097%2CJan%2098%2CJan%2099%2CJan%2000%2CJan%2001&datasets=196041%2C148639%2C136483%2C109676%2C100964%7C185204%2C154639%2C139010%2C113703%2C98437%7C152651%2C121664%2C76896%2C58575%2C51595%7C113922%2C138884%2C93836%2C76535%2C67599&title=How%20the%20X-Men%20dominated%20the%20Avengers%20in%20comic%20book%20sales%20in%20the%20'90s.&description=These%20are%20the%20preorder%20figures%20by%20North%20American%20comic%20book%20shops%20of%20different%20Marvel%20titles%20in%20the%20'90s.&source=Comichron%2FDiamond%20Comic%20Distributors&link=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.comichron.com%2Fmonthlycomicssales%2F&type=bar&legend=X-men%2CUncanny%20X-Men%20%2CFantastic%20Four%2CAvengers", { xdomain: ".*.voxmedia.com" } );
// -->
This helped the 2000 X-Men film achieve, according to Box Office Mojo, a domestic gross of $236,971,000 (adjusted for inflation). Sony's Spider-Man enjoyed the same kind of success. And Marvel, which was struggling, wanted that kind of financial windfall, but didn't have the same type of characters in its war chest that it had sold to Sony and Fox.
What it did have was the charismatic egomaniac Tony Stark and plenty of trust in Robert Downey Jr., who had beaten out Sam Rockwell, Timothy Olyphant, and Clive Owen for the role. Downey was arrested in 2001, and admitted to battling an addiction to drugs and alcohol. In the mid-2000s, he began making his come back in mainstream movies. While you could make an argument that his portrayal of Harry Lockhart in Kiss Kiss Bang Bang might be the best performance of his career (I would), there's no doubt that Iron Man has been his most successful.
Iron Man, as a character, did not have the same status as the X-Men, Spider-Man, Superman, or Batman. But the fit between Tony Stark and Downey was perfect.
Downey gave Stark the jerky, effortless moxie the character needed, and was a breath of fresh air compared with the very serious X-Men and Christopher Nolan's dark take on Batman. Iron Man was a fantastic hit, garnering $360 million (adjusted for inflation) in its domestic gross.
If the first Iron Man movie had bombed, we would have never had The Avengers. But more important, if Marvel had never signed away the rights to Spider-Man and the X-Men, it would have never been forced to try something different, to essentially give us a superhero story we didn't have. If Marvel still had the movie rights to X-Men, Spider-Man, and the Fantastic Four during its late-'90s financial woes, movies like Iron Man, Guardians of the Galaxy, or the upcoming Ant-Man wouldn't exist.

The Avengers in Avengers: Age of Ultron. (Marvel)
The main difference between the Avengers stories you see on the silver screen and the comic books is the sheer size and diversity of the Avengers team. The Avengers, especially in recent years, have become a team that's welcomed progress and diversity.
You wouldn't know this from the movies.
Look at the Avengers in the photo above, and you'll notice it's dominated by white dudes (the Hulk in human form is a straight, white dude) and lacking when it comes to women and people of color. The addition of Scarlet Witch (Elizabeth Olsen) and Quicksilver (Aaron Taylor-Johnson) in Avengers: Age of Ultron makes the team even whiter.
A lack of diversity isn't as big a problem for the Avengers in the comic books. In recent years, Marvel has made a series of moves to include and spotlight heroes of color as well as female superheroes.
This year, Marvel debuted the cover to its All-New All-Different Avengers comic book. That team will feature an African-American Captain America, a Pakistani-American Ms. Marvel, a female Thor, and Miles Morales, a black-Latino character, as Spider-Man:

All-New, All-Different Avengers. (Marvel)
These Avengers obviously look very different from the Avengers we see in Marvel's films. And as it happens, the films account for only a few of the characters who are part of the Avengers in the comics, where they're a huge squad composed of dozens of people and different strike forces spanning several comic titles (Mighty Avengers, Young Avengers, Secret Avengers, Uncanny Avengers, Avengers, New Avengers, etc.). If your familiarity with the team is limited to its big-screen presence, you've only sampled a small slice of the gigantic Avengers universe.

Avengers No. 1. (Marvel)
Indeed, the movies are missing the space heroics and cosmic adventures of Captain Marvel, the trials and tribulations of She-Hulk, the hip and progressive Young Avengers, and the street-level fights that Luke Cage, Monica Rambeau, and the rest of the Mighty Avengers waged in the "Infinity" arc. There are also deeply personal stories like Vision's struggle with love and humanity, Black Panther's wedding and divorce, Carol Danvers and Tony Stark's struggle with addiction, and Scarlet Witch's tragic life, which are integral to their characters but rarely touched upon on screen (though this could change). And Hawkeye is a much more dynamic character in the comic books.
Finally, because comic books aren't subject to the same rights battles as the films, characters like Beast, Spider-Man, and Wolverine are becoming Avengers, while the Avengers are crossing over with the X-Men and the Fantastic Four.
Granted, the entirety of such an expansive universe would be impossible to portray on film. The common refrain from reviews of Avengers: Age of Ultron is that the movie can feel too crowded at times — and that's with just a fraction of the Avengers.

Avengers No. 54. (Marvel)
Ultron is crucial to the Avengers' story because he represents pure evil.
For a long time, evil was typically represented in comic books by a villain with dreams of amassing a ton of wealth. He or she would rob a bank, get caught, and that would be the end of it. That didn't happen with Ultron.
Technically, the character first appears in Avengers No. 54 — written by Roy Thomas and illustrated by John Buscema in 1968 — but Ultron's debut isn't a true appearance, per se. In disguise, Ultron goes by the name Crimson Cowl and is, yes, draped in a crimson (pink) cowl.
Readers soon learn the Cowl has assembled a group of villains who want to take down the Avengers. Ultron wants to capture the Avengers, stick them in a hydrogen bomb, and blow it up over Manhattan:

Avengers No. 55. (Marvel)
In writing a story with such high stakes, Thomas wasn't just setting the form of one of the greatest Avengers villains in history — he was also changing the characterization of evil. The move helped usher in a different, darker way to tell stories.
Thomas, an English teacher in Missouri before his Marvel years, was an avid fan of comic books before joining Marvel, carefully positioned Ultron as a leader and ultimately demoting the Avengers' established group of foes, the "Masters of Evil" — a ragtag group of silly super villains like the Klaw and Whirlwind— by making them Ultron's puppets:
Marvel
Marvel
Avengers No. 55. (Marvel)
In with the new evil, out with the old.
Thomas's work on Ultron reflects the fears of the Cold War era. Joss Whedon has tweaked that in Age of Ultron, making Ultron embody the fears of AI and the singularity rather than a hydrogen bomb. But Ultron's nihilistic heart and mission remain the same.
Avengers: Age of Ultron is already a hit, and Marvel has lined up sequels and Avengers tie-ins through 2019. So the next question is, "What kind of stories will Marvel choose to tell next?"
The studio has yet to showcase a female character or a nonwhite character in its movies. That's why there's a lot of attention on its upcoming Black Panther and Captain Marvel films — both characters are A-list Avengers in the comic books, and both have a rich history for Marvel to drawn on.
And Marvel, as it did with Iron Man, will have to figure out how to make these characters and their stories stand out if it wants to avoid the oncoming tsunami of superhero fatigue. In the next few years, Marvel will have to contend with Fox's X-Men: Apocalypse, Warner Bros.' Batman v. Superman, and a bevy of other films in its own hopper.
In addition to Black Panther and Captain Marvel, it will also be bringing Benedict Cumberbatch's Dr. Strange, Paul Rudd's Ant-Man, and Spider-Man into its fold. If Age of Ultron feels crowded with the addition of two characters, what will we be looking at come 2019, when the second half of Avengers: Infinity War hits theaters?
Even though Infinity War is the last Avengers movie on Marvel's schedule, that's only temporary. There's a deep well full of stories and characters that the company has yet to tap into. And there are plenty of stories involving characters already in the mix that Marvel hasn't even touched. If there's one thing Marvel and the Avengers have taught us, it's that this franchise will never die.
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by culture writer Kelsey McKinney and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Kelsey McKinney: While I see what you're saying, Todd (especially given how this show likes to surprise viewers), I ultimately disagree.
From the very first episode of Game of Thrones, I was convinced Daenerys would eventually take the Iron Throne. Though early on we were supposed to believe her brother was its rightful heir, he was creepy and weak — obviously a pretender. He stood by while Daenerys married the terrifying Khal Drogo, and ate a raw heart.
And after his death, his sister only became more worthy. Daenerys became Khaleesi by fire. She walked into a funeral pyre and emerged the Mother of Dragons.
Daenerys's story throughout Game of Thrones' first few seasons was the plight of an unrecognized, underdog hero. She was given so many setbacks that she almost has to have massive payoff somewhere down the line. Her husband died. She lost her baby, and her people tried to desert her.
It's easy to have faith in Daenerys. Now that she's queen, her sole goal seems to be to provide justice.
It's easy to have faith in Daenerys. She's been treated terribly for most of her life, and now that she's queen, her sole goal seems to be to provide justice, no matter the cost. Sometimes she fails to understand what her people want, but she's consistent in her aims. After five seasons, Daenerys is one of the few Game of Thrones characters who is not only still alive, but still pursuing her ultimate goal — to sit on the Iron Throne. That's why it's so easy to believe she will actually end up there. However, I also think that's why it's so easy to feel bored by her arc.
So far, season five has spent lots of time bringing side characters into the spotlight. This is particularly evident in the religious fanaticism you discussed, Todd. All of a sudden, almost every realm of the kingdom is filled with hard-liners, poised to spice up potentially boring plot lines. In King's Landing, the fanatics are the Sparrows and their leader, the High Sparrow. In Braavos, the fanatics are the faceless men Arya is now living with. In Meereen, where Daenerys is holding court, the fanatics are the Sons of the Harpy, who wear distinctive gold masks and killed one of her Unsullied.
I want to believe that George R. R. Martin and/or the series' showrunners have a few tricks up their sleeves to make me question my assumptions that the only two people who could ultimately rule Westeros are Daenerys and Jon Snow, but for now it seems like many of the show's new characters exist only to add complexity or difficulty to the plight of our already-established heroes. The show and books have so thoroughly worked their way through so many old characters that it's harder and harder to invent new stories for the ones still alive — hence the influx of new figures and movements.
Season five has tried to make some of Game of Thrones' less established characters more central to the story's plot. There's Daario (a.k.a. the guy Daenerys is sleeping with), and Cersei's nephew Lancel, and the High Sparrow. But none of them have enough heft to really hold viewers' attention.
All which is to say it's hard for me to believe anyone will be sitting on the Iron Throne in the end except Jon or Daenerys. The fact that they're still alive seems the best indicator of all.
Unless, of course, something happens with Arya.
Read the recap. Come back for more thoughts from Andrew on Sunday.
Previous entry
Next: Andrew on whether Margaery or Sansa is at all ready
This is Cat the Cow.

Meet Cat (The cow). #LastManOnEarth pic.twitter.com/8KBUO5vQod


Currently, Cat plays what might very well be the last cow on Earth on Fox's sitcom The Last Man on Earth. The show's apocalypse seems to have killed all animal life — but not this cow.
Here's Cat in action.
Cat the Cow (right) hangs out with her Last Man on Earth costar, Will Forte.
Fox
If you feel like you know Cat from somewhere else, you might not be wrong. At a recent screening of the Last Man finale (airing Sunday, May 3), I asked series executive producer Chris Miller about the cow, and he volunteered that not only was Cat a highly trained actor, but that she was also the Chick-fil-A Cow.
Yes, this Chick-fil-A Cow.

Could this be true? Could there be just one Chick-fil-A cow?
To find out, I tracked down Cat's owners, who work at Phil's Animal Rentals, which has been providing animals to Hollywood productions for decades. I spoke to Kelly Capponcelli, a manager with the company, who told me that, yes, Cat is in almost all Chick-fil-A commercials.
In fact, if you ever see a Holstein cow (the ones with the black and white spots) on TV or in the movies, it's a safe bet you're looking at Cat. (Or, Capponcelli tells me, one of her three colleagues — all of whom are owned by Phil's Animals, which has cornered the market on Holstein thespians.)
What makes Cat such a good fit for the life of fame? "She ended up working out because she's one of the more gentle, easygoing cows that I've ever met," Capponcelli told me. It turns out that cows, not the smartest of animals, are very, very hard to train, and they often act out on set. They're also incredibly stubborn.

"She's one of the more gentle, easygoing cows that I've ever met"

Cat's easygoing nature means she can handle the glare of the spotlight. But she also knows tricks! For instance, she can play instruments. ("Very terribly," Capponcelli allows.) She can push on a sign or hit a target if asked. But mostly, she just stands. That's about all she does on Last Man, but it's all she has to do.
"You don't want her blowing up on set," Capponcelli says.
Now, having learned all of this, I would submit to you that between her Chick-fil-A work, her role on Last Man on Earth, and all of the other times she turns up, Cat is the most famous cow in America.
I ask Capponcelli if Cat is the most famous cow in America, and she doesn't even have to think about it. "She probably is right now," she says. "It used to be Georgia, and now it's Cat."
Former Phil's Animals client Georgia died at 25. (She still has a page on the Phil's Animals site.) She was the go-to Holstein before her retirement, and now Cat has inherited the title.
Capponcelli is quick to assure me Cat won't end up a hamburger, nor will she be pressed into service as a dairy cow. Phil's Animal Rentals purchases cows at auction in their youth, and then they live out full careers as animal actors. Capponcelli says the longest a cow has lived at Phil's is 28 years.
So fear not, Cat fans. She's only 8. You'll be seeing her talents for many years to come.
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and political writer Dylan Matthews. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Dylan Matthews: There are so many things about the episode's Massacre of Glencoe joke that I love. There's the surrealist delight of two characters very seriously sparring over events that occurred nearly 300 years prior, across an ocean. There's the fact that Pete didn't even hesitate with his "The King ordered it!" rejoinder (clearly, the Campbells have been schooled on their massacre-defense talking points). There's the implicit link it creates to Mad Men's Sunday night rival, Game of Thrones, whose Red Wedding sequence was inspired by the massacre.
But mostly, making Pete one of those Campbells is a brilliant character note. Pete is a deeply privileged man who's always coming up short.
On the one hand, his pedigree is impeccable. His mother is a Dyckman, the descendent of a family that used to own much of Manhattan. He went to Deerfield and Dartmouth. But his adult life has seen humiliation after humiliation chip away at this image of himself. His parents were embarrassed by his choice to go into advertising. He had to accept money for an apartment from his wife's parents after his only family wouldn't help him (and because Sterling Cooper didn't pay him enough). His father squandered the family fortune. He got divorced, with all the social ostracism that entails. For heaven's sake, there's an entire episode devoted to Pete failing at stuff: fixing a sink, fisticuffs with Lane Pryce, sleeping with the high school girl he has a crush on.
The Clan Campbell — Scots who allied with the English crown — is a wonderful metaphor for this. Pete isn't a real WASP, not on his father's side at least. He will never be at the top of the social ladder. If the Upper East Side elite were the Mafia, he'd never be a made man.
And yet he tries all the same, just as the Clan Campbell tried to gain the favor of the English for a taste of the privileges Englishness offered. The result is that Pete gets humiliated by a preschool headmaster. In 1970, even fake Englishness doesn't buy you much of anything anymore. Even the toniest nursery schools are run by goddamn MacDonalds.
To people whose ancestors didn't hold British titles of nobility, these distinctions probably seem very fine and trivial indeed. But one thing I did like about the episode, which you gesture at, Todd, is that it's partially about the evaporation of distinctions amongst the powerful.
Today, we don't talk about WASP privilege relative to Scots; we talk about white privilege relative to nonwhites. I remember in college hearing an Irish-American classmate protest that he wasn't really white; he wasn't an Englishman, and he didn't have those privileges. It sounded ridiculous at the time, and even more so now. It was a narcissism of small differences, a person in a position of privilege desperately trying to claim the mantle of the underdog without enduring any actual oppression.
That's what Sterling Cooper & Partners' freakout at the prospect of being taken over by McCann feels like to me. SC&P wants to think of itself as an agile, nimble team of innovators who've been shaking up the industry and playing by their own rules. But as you say, Todd, they're just another group of white guys (plus Joan and Peggy) painting the same Norman Rockwell visions of America as everyone else.
In 1963, in "Shut the Door. Have a Seat," it's easy to miss this, because the possibility of a real alternative to the model felt so faint, so hopeless. But in 1970, the counterculture is real. Black Power is real. Women's liberation is real. Even gay liberation is real, if only just beginning (note the couple who greet Don at Diana's former apartment). There is a world outside the tiny bubble in which firms like SC&P and McCann did battle, and splitting hairs within that bubble is starting to look rather ridiculous.
It does make me wish that the show lasted long enough to document advertising's co-option of the counterculture, the moment when the traditional strategy of firms like SC&P and McCann began to fail and bursting out of their bubble became a business imperative.
We've seen Peggy hang out with Warhol types. We've seen Roger trip on acid. We've seen the whole office inject a strange drug into their asses. But we haven't seen advertising work that takes these changes seriously.
Read the recap, and come back tomorrow for more thoughts.
Previous entry
Next: Libby on when the show stopped being about advertising
The Dr. Oz media empire just took a blow from the woman who helped make him famous: Oprah Winfrey. According to New York Daily News, "'The Daily Dose With Dr. Oz,' a 'radio minute' produced by Oprah's Harpo Productions, will end May 29."  Even more interesting: Oz's spot, which aired on 150 stations, may be replaced with "A Better Life With Dr. Sanjay Gupta" — the CNN chief medical correspondent.

Dr. Oz on the cover of O magazine.
While there has been no explanation for the switch, the news comes just over a week after Oz faced heavy criticism for featuring questionable science on The Dr. Oz Show. The public scorn has caused some to question whether Oz — who was a medical expert on Oprah's show starting in 2004 — is now tarnishing Oprah's legacy.In particular, a group of doctors and professors from across the country signed a  letter addressed to Columbia's dean of medicine — where Oz has a faculty position — calling the medical school's affiliation with the TV star "unacceptable." Their letter arose out of a chorus of concerns about the increasingly questionable health advice featured on the show, and the public health impact "America's Doctor" — arguably the most powerful health voice in this country — has.Dr. Oz fired back with a counterattack — but many pointed out the ad hominem nature of his defense. He mostly tried to steer the conversation away from his misuse of science and toward the conflicts of interest some of the doctors who wrote the letter had. Oz then also claimed that his show is not a medical one. "We very purposely, on the logo, have ‘Oz' as the middle, and the  ‘Doctor' is actually up in the little bar for a reason," he said in  a TV interview. "I want folks to realize that I'm a doctor, and I'm  coming into their lives to be supportive of them. But it's not a medical  show."    This only prompted more criticism. HBO's John Oliver pointed out some of the problems with Oz's arguments:
Avengers: Age of Ultron is one weird, sad, dark movie. It's about the limits of control, what it's like to live under an occupying force, and how hard it can be to relinquish power.

Rating
Not everything about Age of Ultron works, and it feels like a five-hour movie squished into half the time. But long stretches of it are as good as anything Marvel Studios has produced, suggesting a bolder, more ambitious vision for the studio going forward. Marvel is no longer content to create happy, good-time blockbusters; it wants to make art, man, as evidenced by this film and the two that preceded it (Captain America: The Winter Soldier and Guardians of the Galaxy).

As with any shift in focus, growing pains are to be expected, and growing pains are certainly present in Age of Ultron. Yet in spite of those growing pains, this is a deeply felt, often very moving film — and one that seems incredibly personal to its creator, which is new territory for Marvel.

Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.) unleashes Ultron upon the world. (Marvel Studios)
The entry in Avengers director Joss Whedon's canon that Age of Ultron most resembles isn't the first Avengers movie. No, it's his short-lived cult sensation Firefly, a TV Western set in space that harked back to the scars left by the American Civil War. The show was at once humane and incredibly melancholy. Many episodes ended not with a space battle, but with the crew of the titular ship sitting around a table, eating together. They were an ad hoc family, but largely because nobody else was around.
The Avengers aren't isolated by the depths of space. They're isolated because they're the Avengers, and nobody else on Earth can really understand what it's like to be something between god and man. That's a realm Whedon plays well in, and if the first Avengers was about the sheer joy of godlike powers, then Age of Ultron is about the loneliness of being human.
In its best moments, Age of Ultron feels like a lost Firefly episode. The characters retire to a safe house somewhere in the American Midwest and take a break from the ongoing mayhem that is their lives. They sit around trying to lift Thor's hammer. They brood about the past, in which they're all forever trapped in some form. (This is a hallmark of both Marvel and Whedon.)










The story, such as it is, is the usual Marvel spectacle. Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.) harnesses an artificial intelligence named Ultron in an attempt to create a peacekeeping mechanism that might guard Earth. Instead, it starts speaking in James Spader's distinctive voice and, as you'd expect, turns against its creator, aiming to kill everybody in the world. After all, if there are no humans, there can be no violence or war — at least theoretically.
Age of Ultron's action sequences are stronger, on a technical level, than those in any other Marvel film (though there's probably one too many of them), and the story's themes allow Whedon to muse on the nature of humanity and the meaning of life, sometimes quite openly. But the threadbare story merely exists to keep things moving, with throughlines so tenuous that it's almost surprising when you can't predict what's coming next, when a payoff arrives for a setup you didn't even know was there.
After seeing Age of Ultron, I'm not sure I could tell you all that much about the "plot," beyond the basic idea of the characters fighting Ultron in a series of increasingly hostile battles. What stands out most are the film's character moments and tiny grace notes of feeling around the edges of the story.
Whedon tries again and again to top the shot at the end of The Avengers when he used one shot to glide past all of the heroes as they fought an alien menace. He never does, but he doesn't have to. Throughout, Age of Ultron is trying to be more beautiful than spectacular.
Marvel Studios
Marvel Studios
Scarlet Witch (Elizabeth Olsen) is the film's most intriguing new addition to the Marvel universe. (Marvel Studios)
For the most part, superhero films are formulaic. They follow a set story arc. They introduce a menace, allow the hero to save the world, then move on to the next film in the series. When done well, they're a lot of fun, but they're rarely substantial enough for a full meal.
There have been occasional experiments with the form. Ang Lee's Hulk, for instance, didn't entirely succeed but tried to introduce metaphysical themes and pop psychology to the proceedings. The Dark Knight was mostly a treatise on George W. Bush–era America disguised as a Batman movie. But the Marvel movies, even the really good ones, have often felt more like cogs in a giant machine than anything deeply emotional or personal.
Avengers: Age of Ultron struggles to tell a coherent story, and it tries to cram too many events into its running time. But it's unquestionably a Joss Whedon film, obsessed as it is with things like the human toll of battle, the true nature of heroism, and the hidden fissures always present in otherwise sound communities — fissures that threaten to break those communities into tiny pieces.
The world of Age of Ultron is a grimmer place than the world of The Avengers. People might like these heroes, but they're also suspicious of them, something Ultron can use to his advantage (thanks to the mind-warping abilities of Elizabeth Olsen's telekinetic Scarlet Witch, the film's best new addition to the Marvel universe).
Whedon is obsessed with the idea of people becoming that which they don't want to be — there's Firefly again — and he uses it to great effect throughout Age of Ultron. If it seems like he's rushing through the part where Tony Stark decides to build a giant safety net around the globe (and he is), it's because he wants to get to the part where Tony realizes he's at least a little bit of a supervillain in addition to being a superhero.
It's that focus on human frailty that makes Age of Ultron such a comedown from the first Avengers film — albeit a necessary one
It's that focus on human frailty that makes Age of Ultron such a comedown from the first Avengers film — albeit a necessary one. That first film was a "better" one, in that it was more consistent overall, but Age of Ultron is more thematically unified, more thoughtful. It realizes that every triumph is somebody else's horror.
Whedon shoots many of the action sequences from the perspective of bystanders, who could be killed by an errant punch or a Hulk falling from the sky. And it won't matter if said Hulk was trying to protect them or simply raging beyond recognition thanks to the Scarlet Witch's mind-control juice; they're still dead, their lives still snuffed out. You can try to save everybody, but you'll screw up eventually. And then what will you do?
If you had to reduce Avengers: Age of Ultron to a single scene, it'd be one that comes around the film's middle, when Thor (Chris Hemsworth) steps on a child's house made of Duplo bricks, shattering it.
This tiny house is easily put back together, but the team's mere presence has split it into pieces. The heroes will work as hard as they can to be the best people they can be, but their efforts will never be enough — because they are human, just like the rest of us, and human beings always, eventually, fail.
Avengers: Age of Ultron opens Friday, May 1, throughout the country.
We attach meaning to places through pop culture. We transform them from the living, breathing cities we are part of into their platonic ideals. New York is for big dreamers. Los Angeles is where stars are born. Seattle is a land of gloomy 20-somethings searching for connection (or coffee).
These are all variations on the actual places, which are more varied and fluid than their pop cultural counterparts. The fakes have taken hold, because they're close enough to reality to satisfy. You really do go to Los Angeles if you want to become a star; you just maybe don't think about all the people there who didn't manage that trick.
We think we know these real places through their fictional alter egos. Even if we live in one of them, the idea of a place is sometimes so potent that we can forget the place itself, allowing ourselves to get lost in the idealized ghost projecting from what is.
But our fictional Baltimore is an apocalypse waiting to happen.
Sure, we have Hairspray's Tracy Turnblad singing "Good Morning, Baltimore," and many of the joys John Waters has given us. Less-grim tales of Baltimore do exist, like Barry Levinson's Diner (though even that has a kitchen-sink realism it's hard to imagine flying in, say, Washington, DC).
We have a long series of fictional works that suggest Baltimore is rotting from the inside out
But then we have a long series of works that suggest the place is either a blue-collar city in decline or one that's rotting from the inside out. Somehow Baltimore has become the symbol of the death of the American city, and it was trending that way even before David Simon started chronicling it. (If you don't believe me, check out Lanford Wilson's play The Hot l Baltimore, and the subsequent sitcom made of it.)
Even Detroit has Motown and the faded glories of the auto industry. Baltimore has become a synonym for decay in our pop cultural language. Is it any wonder that an explosion of protests there against police brutality, followed by riots Monday night, led to so many lazy Twitter jokes about The Wire?
I count myself among those who only know the fictional Baltimore, as opposed to the real one. Like any good American TV critic, I genuflect toward the altar of Simon's work. I loved Homicide: Life on the Street (which was created by others from a book he wrote). The Corner is tremendous. The Wire is one of the great TV series. And his non-Baltimore-centric work is fantastic, too.

David Simon, creator of The Wire. (Astrid Stawiarz/Getty Images for the 2014 Tribeca Film Festival)
Simon's TV Baltimores aren't just fictionally precise — they feel reported. That's in large part because they are. They're based on the stories and conversations Simon observed during his many years as a newspaper reporter in the city, before writing the book that became Homicide and propelled him toward his TV career.
But as the Washington Post's Alyssa Rosenberg points out, Simon's chronicle of black Baltimore is laced with a pessimism that lets his largely white, largely upper-class audience off the hook:
Part of Simon’s appeal is that he’s a gifted diagnostician, a dark and funny analyst of how failed sets of public policies lock together and create greater human misery together than they ever could separately. But as a physician, his prognoses are almost unfailingly terminal, and his prescriptions are palliative rather than curative. People like former convict Cutty Wise (Chad L. Coleman), who manages to found a modest boxing gym, may carve out small accomplishments in Baltimore. But their efforts are small pockets of healthy flesh in a necrotic body.
It might be heresy for a critic to say this, but as Baltimore tries to recover from Monday’s convulsions, I wonder if the fundamental fatalism of "The Wire" might be part of its appeal to some part of Simon’s audience.
Rosenberg is right about this. What makes The Wire so successful as a polemic and as entertainment is what keeps it from succeeding as a statement on behalf of the real Baltimore, the bleeding Baltimore, the fading Baltimore.
While The Wire certainly channeled to audiences that West Baltimore — the neighborhood where Freddie Gray, whose April 19 death in police custody sparked the recent protests, lived — is a place of deep poverty and suffering, the negative outlook of Simon's work suggests that little can be done. It is vital, necessary, deeply felt art, but it's also tourism, in a sense, dipping viewers' toes into a world they likely wouldn't want to live in.
Since the series left the air, it has become distilled to its most purely entertaining elements
None of that stops The Wire from being one of the best shows ever made. But it has recast Baltimore, at least in the imagination of some of us who have only seen the city's impoverished neighborhoods on TV, as a great open wound that will never be cauterized.
Since the series left the air, through absolutely no fault of Simon's own, it has stopped being a work of fictional journalism and become distilled to its most purely entertaining elements. We hold competitions to determine the best character. We debate which season ranks the highest. We say, "Omar comin'!" or "Five-oh!" like we grew up in Baltimore, because we have the distance to turn Simon's well-observed patter into catchphrases.
This is what happens to fiction, of course. It ceases to belong to its creators, and it soon belongs to its audience, which does whatever it wants with it. And as The Wire recedes further into memory, it becomes easier to do this, to shake off whatever realities inspired it, in pursuit of less-harsh truths.
This, I think, is why I was so surprised to see Simon's statement on Monday's events. After saying the protests surrounding Gray's death could prove transformational if handled properly, Simon pivots to talking to the rioters, specifically:
But now — in this moment — the anger and the selfishness and the brutality of those claiming the right to violence in Freddie Gray’s name needs to cease.  There was real power and potential in the peaceful protests that spoke in Mr. Gray’s name initially, and there was real unity at his homegoing today.  But this, now, in the streets, is an affront to that man’s memory and a diminution of the absolute moral lesson that underlies his unnecessary death.
If you can’t seek redress and demand reform without a brick in your hand, you risk losing this moment for all of us in Baltimore.  Turn around.  Go home.  Please.
It's not that I was surprised to hear him call for a peaceful, nonviolent protests; it is the man's city, after all, and no one wants to watch their city collapse. And his hope in the protests sparking change is also rooted in Simon's old-school liberalism.
But what struck me most was the way the statement could not help but play Simon's realistic yet ultimately fictional Baltimore off the very real one on TV news channels. Though he did not intend this, the statement almost seemed to be letting fans of his writing and his programs off the hook for having enjoyed them so much. The Baltimore of The Wire would surely have descended into further chaos in a similar situation; the real one could be saved, maybe, by peaceful protest.
For those of us who consume entertainment and cultural news endlessly, Simon is probably the most prominent Baltimorean of the moment. There's a reason so many of my colleagues, both at Vox and at other publications, wondered what he would have to say about the recent events in Baltimore. Simon's not just the most prominent Baltimorean; he's someone who, through his work, gives the impression of knowing the city better than just about anybody, a kind of TV poet laureate of Maryland.
So what happens when Baltimore actually seems doomed, if only for a few hours?
But Simon's work insists Baltimore is doomed, over and over again. If there's hope, it's only here and there. So what happens when Baltimore actually seems doomed, if only for a few hours? Do we praise Simon for his prescience? Or do we wonder, for a split second, if he gave us a way to wash our hands of the whole thing, to act like we cared without caring, to stop by for a visit without investing anything greater than that?
The Baltimore of The Wire (and The Corner and Homicide and many pre-Simon works) is mostly entertaining if it stays safely in that "other" world, the one to which we consign all those phantom versions of our great cities. To see a man die in police custody, to see violence erupt, to see a city burn — those are all things that might, even for a brief moment, make us wonder just what we were watching and enjoying all those years.
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by culture writer Kelsey McKinney and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Todd VanDerWerff: Andrew, I'm not sure I can do anything better than explaining "High Sparrow" in eight beheadings, so I think I will pivot to something else entirely: religious fundamentalism.
The Sparrows are kinda, sorta the same as they are in the book A Feast for Crows, which was written in the early 2000s, during a period when many thought (and feared) the religious right was in ascendancy throughout the United States and would rule for generations to come.
That obviously didn't happen, but it was something in the cultural ether at the time, and I've always read the Sparrows as a bit of commentary on the movement from George R. R. Martin, or, at the very least, as a way of talking about how political movements deal with their most recalcitrant members.
And if anything, the show underlines this even more forcefully. Cersei goes to visit the High Sparrow in this episode, and if we know Cersei, we know she'll use just about any advantage she can find. The Sparrows could become a very handy cudgel she can use to continue wielding her power. As Andrew points out, this is something of a change from the novel, but it's in the same general spirit of what Martin was trying to do, which is explain how the money behind political movements can use extremists to play a bit of a shell game.
While everybody is distracted by the Sparrows making examples of anyone who doesn't live up to their moral code, Cersei is not-so-quietly consolidating her power. The Lannisters are the closest thing the show has to a deep-pocketed Super PAC (I'm really straining the boundaries of this metaphor, but go with me), and even if they're essentially out of cash, no one's going to believe it, as a Lannister always pays his debts. Thus, the Lannisters can still buy essentially whatever they want, so long as they keep everybody looking the other way. The Sparrows, then, become a useful tool.
But the Lannisters also have something that makes them much more entertaining than most real-life political dynasties — a rapacious willingness to just embrace their love of power. You see the way the Tyrells sort of tiptoe around the idea of having that much power, trying to sweet-talk their way into a bigger chair at the table. But Cersei knows from power, and she's ready to shut that shit down the second it starts up.
That's what makes Margaery such a threat to her. Of all the Tyrells, Margaery both knows how to wield power and is young enough for society to let her. (Much as I love her grandmother, she'll always be at the edges of society at her age.) Cersei recognizes a skillful opponent when she sees one, and Margaery is one of the most skilled she's faced.
A thick weight of prophecy hangs over this season
Of course, her most skillful opponent was her own brother, who's off on another continent entirely, confronting his own brand of religious fundamentalism, as a follower of the Lord of Light brands Dany as the savior this land has been waiting for. Ever the cynic, Tyrion mostly scoffs at such religious fervor, but even he's a little curious about the way Daenerys has stirred up such sentiments (to the degree that the most popular prostitute at a brothel dresses like her).
A thick weight of prophecy hangs over this season. It began, after all, with that scene where Cersei learned about her own future, and there's a strong sense of destiny clinging to both Dany and Jon. But only Dany seems to have had this sense filter out to the people around her. Other characters in the world increasingly seem aware she's the protagonist of a fantasy novel and want to get on board the Targaryen bandwagon.
But this is what ultimately makes me think Dany is a feint on Martin's part. For as much as I like the character and hope she brings her dragons to Westeros, there's the dim sense that she's almost too set up to be the ultimate victor here. What's more, as recent weeks have shown us, she has little to no idea how to lead just yet. She doesn't even take time to do her own beheading, which Ned Stark would tell us is non-optimal.
I wonder just how much we're supposed to be thinking this, however. Maybe Martin's long series of unexpected reversals is meant to distract us from the fact that this is heading to the place it seems to be, with Dany (or maybe Jon) on the throne. If I know the author by now, however, I wouldn't be surprised if he had more tricks up his sleeve.
Read the recap. Come back for more thoughts tomorrow.
Previous entry
Next: Kelsey on why Dany or Jon will win in the end
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and political writer Dylan Matthews. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Todd VanDerWerff: Clearly the correct answer to your final query, Libby, is that the Campbells were in the right. When the king tells you to do something, you hop to it.
But you've also got me thinking about how the season is presenting the characters' lack of options not as doom but, rather, as a kind of erasure of the self. To be sure, I have that word on the brain because Matt Zoller Seitz's excellent recap over at Vulture points out how both the first and last shots literally involve characters being erased, so it almost doesn't matter that they're there.

The waiter steps away to reveal Pete was there the whole time. (AMC)

The party's over on Mad Men. (AMC)
The waiter steps away to reveal Pete, whose importance to the meeting is minimal; the other employees of Sterling Cooper & Partners interrupt the partners with their own chatter, as if they're ghosts haunting the halls of the office they founded.
That also got me to thinking about your point, Dylan, that what's at stake in "Time & Life" is small potatoes compared with what's at stake in "Shut the Door. Have a Seat." This is essentially true, but I think the stakes are far higher than you grant.
Don Draper, after all, is a man who has built his life on the idea that there should always be an easily accessible escape route. In fighting so hard to come back to his old job, then, he's essentially doomed himself to a life without escape routes — not without completely forgoing the person he's become and going back to poverty. He probably has enough in his bank account to last a good while, but without money rolling in — and with $1 million out to Megan — he's boxed himself in.
Don Draper is a man who has built his life on the idea that there should always be an easily accessible escape route
So what does he do? Go back to being Dick Whitman? Make a fuss? Grin and bear it? No — he tries to believe, tries to convince himself that McCann is the place he wants to be. All of the partners do. But the rest of the firm isn't having it — they don't have nearly the cushion the partners do, nor the cushion that, say, Peggy has. Their jobs are very well on the line, even if Don and company are too far away to see this.
But as Seitz points out, escape routes are being blocked out all over. Joan gained the power and money she never could have had in her old Sterling Cooper days, only to find herself sucked right back into that world, without the promise of something of her very own. Roger Sterling is the last of his name — all the rest are in a mausoleum out in Greenwood. Don's apartment sits empty and ready for another chapter, but he's still in it.
To a degree, this is the message of the show. The past is the past, and sometimes it should stay the past. That centuries old grudge between the Campbells and MacDonalds is such a bitterly funny joke because it occurs on a show where the characters are forever haunted by wounds that extend beyond the boundaries of their own lives. It's okay for things to change, for people and nations to evolve.
In that sense, then, the characters on the show are the smudges of chalk left behind on the blackboard after someone scrubs it clear. You can see the tracks of the words left there, but the figure isn't fully formed. At first, I thought Tammy's failed draw-a-man test was a groan-worthy symbol of how Pete hasn't been a part of her life. It still probably is that, but it's also a thematic echo of the thought that without freedom and autonomy, these characters cease to exist. They become the fat, happy dinosaurs they thought they were struggling against.
The irony, of course, is that Mad Men was always a show about dinosaurs. It's a series about privileged white men in an era when that privilege would be eroded, in tiny, tiny bits. And throughout the run, the various iterations of Sterling Cooper have never been as cutting-edge as some of their flashier competitors. Yes, they promoted Peggy, but Peggy's ads were generally very good versions of straight down the middle. That's what her agencies sold, and that's what her clients wanted.
But the straight-down-the-middle pitch of the American dream was — as the show pointed out again and again — always a lie. The truth of the matter is that it was just an image, created by men like Don to sell things. And in being absorbed by McCann, a fate worse than death threatens to swallow the characters whole. They're in danger of becoming frozen in place, forever smiling, like the specters of an America that never quite was populating their ads.
Read the recap, and come back tomorrow for more thoughts.
Previous entry
Next: Dylan on how Scottish history explains the show
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by culture writer Kelsey McKinney and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Andrew Prokop: In "High Sparrow," the latest episode of Game of Thrones, Jon Snow finally performs his first beheading, executing the cowardly and disobedient Janos Slynt for insubordination.
But what seems like a simple and brutal scene actually has a great deal of resonance with many of the show's past events. Beheading is practically a rite of passage in Westeros — particularly if it involves a Stark.
Need proof? Here you go.
Ned Stark lives up to his code. (HBO)
One of the very first scenes in season one showed Ned Stark bringing his children, including Jon, to watch him execute a deserter from the Night's Watch. The young man's situation wasn't unsympathetic — he fled south in terror after encountering the White Walkers. But according to the law, those who abandon the Watch face execution.
Jon cautioned his little brother Bran not to look away. "Father will know if you do." After the deed was done, Ned explained to Bran he had to do the deed himself because the Starks follow the "old way" — "the man who passes the sentence should swing the sword."
Ned dies in horribly ironic fashion. (HBO)
The end of Ned's story was a perverted mirror image of its beginning. The usurping Lannisters, having murdered the king and installed the illegitimate Joffrey on the throne, arrested Ned for treason. Though Ned agreed to confess his "crimes" to help his daughter, Joffrey went off-script. He didn't look away, but he broke one of Ned's rules — he didn't swing the sword (Ned's own) himself.
Jon and Ygritte have the world's worst meet-cute. (HBO)
Despite his father's example, Jon Snow has had trouble carrying out two executions he's been ordered to perform in the past. Back in season two, as Jon was on a Night's Watch scouting mission north of the Wall, his group encountered and fought a willing band.
The sole survivor turned out to be a girl named Ygritte. Jon was ordered to execute her, and raised his sword — but couldn't do it. This proved to be a crucial turning point in his character arc.
Jon just isn't very good at beheading people yet. (HBO)
Because Jon let Ygritte live, he soon ended up her prisoner — but then pretended to defect to the wildlings, and eventually became Ygritte's lover. Jon was then sent with a group of wildlings to climb over the Wall and attack the Night's Watch from the south.
But when an old man discovered their approach, Jon was ordered to execute him to prove his loyalty. He raised his sword ... and again, he couldn't go through with it, revealing his true sympathies. In the ensuing commotion, he managed to escape. (The old man, sadly, was killed anyway — by Ygritte.)
Theon is perhaps the worst at beheading. (HBO)
The musical cues in this week's beheading scene reference two memorable beheadings in previous seasons, in which young lords tried to demonstrate their authority. The first was back in season two, when Theon Greyjoy captured Winterfell. After Rodrik Cassel, a Stark supporter, defied him and spat on him, Theon — desperate to prove his strength — ordered him beheaded.
At first, one of Theon's henchmen was going to do the deed. But Rodrik reminded Theon of Ned's maxim — the man who passes the sentence should swing the sword. Theon picked up the sword, and hacked away wildly, failing to accomplish the job in one slice. The whole spectacle only ended up revealing his weakness and cruelty. A few episodes later, he was betrayed by his own men, and he's been a prisoner of the Boltons ever since.
Robb Stark: unlucky in everything. (HBO)
As Robb Stark's war effort began to founder in season three, one of his lords, Rickard Karstark, decided to murder two young Lannister prisoners in his custody for vengeance. Outraged, Robb sentenced him to death, even though it meant losing the support of Karstark's men. The same music from Theon's beheading of Rodrik played as an angry, tearful Robb chose to do justice, even if it meant reducing his already slim hopes for victory even further. Robb, of course, was betrayed and murdered at the Red Wedding a few episodes later.
(HBO)
Of course, the most recent beheading on the show was just a week ago — and this one resembled Robb's execution of Lord Karstark quite a bit. A freed slave adviser of Dany's, Mossador, decided to murder a suspected member of the Harpy insurgency in her custody, even though she had decreed he'd get a fair trial. Decreeing that Mossador had broken the law, and trying to be fair, Dany had him executed — which resulted in angry hissing and unrest from the free slaves who watched.
Dany, of course, is not a Stark. But it's worth noting that she breaks two of the key Stark rules here. She doesn't carry out the sentence herself, instead having Daario do it, and, as seen above, she looks away from the act. In Ned's eyes, she wouldn't yet be fit to rule.
(HBO)
Though the music that plays in Jon's beheading scene this week is very similar to that used in the Robb and Theon beheadings, the political situation is completely different. This is a strategic display of power that shows off Jon's strength, not a sign that events are slipping out of his control.
It has that effect because Jon, in contrast to Robb and Theon, had just displayed some surprising shrewdness in dealing with his rivals. In his first address to the Night's Watch that we see, Jon implicitly dangles the possibility that he might name his rival Alliser Thorne to dig a new latrine pit. Instead, though, he appoints Thorne to the important position of First Ranger. It's an acknowledgment of Thorne's skill and competence and an attempt to make an ally out of an enemy.
This strengthens Jon's position in dealing with the much less skillful and competent Janos Slynt, who already has a reputation as a coward. The assignment Jon gives Slynt — to a restore an abandoned castle — isn't particularly bad. He'd even be allowed to have some subordinates. So Slynt's over-the-top defiance is recognized by everyone to be out of line. When Jon orders Slynt brought outside, Thorne stands and looks for a moment like he might interfere — but then backs away, abandoning Slynt to his fate.
This time around, Jon only briefly hesitates — and he follows Ned's guidance, swinging the sword himself.

Here's the actual moment. (HBO)
The act is undeniably brutal, but seems effective. Stannis, at least, approves, giving a nod of support. It certainly won't solve all of Jon's political problems. We're reminded in this episode that he faces the tricky challenge of dealing with the captured wildlings — and Davos Seaworth argues, yet again, that Jon shouldn't leave the North under Bolton control. But for now, Jon has solidified his own precarious position with the men he commands.
Side note: this episode doesn't explicitly remind us of it, but there's a lot of history with Slynt. Back in season one, he played an instrumental role in Ned Stark's downfall — he was head of the City Watch in King's Landing, and took Littlefinger's bribe to capture Ned and back the Lannisters. Then in season two, Slynt personally killed a baby (one of King Robert's illegitimate children) on Joffrey's orders. This disgusted Tyrion so much that he ordered Slynt sent to the Wall — where Jon Snow has brought his arc to a well-deserved finish.
Read the recap. Todd will have more thoughts tomorrow.
Previous entry
Next: Todd on the show's use of religious fundamentalism
Nominations for the 69th annual Tony Awards, honoring the best of Broadway productions, were announced Tuesday, April 28. The awards show will air Sunday, June 7, at 8 pm Eastern on CBS.
You can read more information on all of the nominated plays and musicals at the Tony Award website.
As always, the nomination totals were dominated by musicals. With generally larger casts, flashier technical elements, and the opportunity to receive nominations for score and book (essentially the "script" of a musical), musicals have always had this advantage.
This year's nomination leaders were An American in Paris and Fun Home with 12 nominations apiece. American is a big, glitzy adaptation of the famous George Gershwin score that also gave rise to the 1951 Best Picture–winning film of the same name. Fun Home is a musical adaptation of Alison Bechdel's graphic memoir about coming of age and coming to terms with her sexuality, all while struggling with her relationship with her father, a closeted gay man.
The only other nominee to score in the double digits was musical Something Rotten, which is set in the 1590s and involves Elizabethan playwrights trying to come up with the world's first musical, to get a leg up on their contemporary, William Shakespeare.
The most-nominated play was Wolf Hall Parts One & Two, an adaptation of Hilary Mantel's best-selling novels about the life of Thomas Cromwell.
Yes! The Tonys often shy away from famous faces who come to star in Broadway shows — even if they receive good reviews — but this year proved an exception to that general rule. Bradley Cooper and Patricia Clarkson received nominations for their performances in The Elephant Man, while Elisabeth Moss and Carey Mulligan received nominations for starring in revivals of the plays The Heidi Chronicles and Skylight, respectively.
Perhaps the most unexpected famous person nominated was Sting — yes, the Sting who was in the Police — who managed a nomination for Best Original Score for the musical The Last Ship. The show closed in January, after a short run and tepid reviews, but most of those reviews singled out Sting's work as noteworthy, so here he is.
They can. So long as a production opened after April 24, 2014 and before April 23, 2015, it is eligible for a Tony Award nomination. Shows that close are nominated all the time, though hit shows that run for many years are only eligible in the year they opened.
It's a supporting role. The word "featured" is meant to suggest the difference between the stars who have their names "above the title" on a Broadway poster and those who are stuck below the title, but this really just means "lead versus supporting performance." Don't worry about it too much.
You can.
Best Musical
An American in Paris
Fun Home
Something Rotten!
The Visit
Best Play
The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time
Disgraced
Hand to God
Wolf Hall Parts One & Two
Best Revival, Musical
The King and I
On the Town
On the Twentieth Century
Best Revival, Play
The Elephant Man
Skylight
This Is Our Youth
You Can’t Take It With You
Best Lead Actor, Musical
Michael Cerveris, Fun Home
Robert Fairchild, An American in Paris
Brian d’Arcy James, Something Rotten!
Ken Watanabe, The King and I
Tony Yazbeck, On the Town
Best Lead Actress, Musical
Kristin Chenoweth, On the Twentieth Century
Leanne Cope, An American in Paris
Beth Malone, Fun Home
Kelli O’Hara, The King and I
Chita Rivera, The Visit
Best Lead Actor, Play
Steven Boyer, Hand to God
Bradley Cooper, The Elephant Man
Ben Miles, Wolf Hall Parts One & Two
Bill Nighy, Skylight
Alex Sharp, The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time
Best Lead Actress, Play
Geneva Carr, Hand to God
Helen Mirren, The Audience
Elisabeth Moss, The Heidi Chronicles
Carey Mulligan, Skylight
Ruth Wilson, Constellations
Best Performance by an Actor in a Featured Role in a Play
Matthew Beard, Skylight
K. Todd Freeman, Airline Highway
Richard McCabe, The Audience
Alessandro Nivola, The Elephant Man
Nathaniel Parker, Wolf Hall Parts One & Two
Micah Stock, It's Only a Play
Best Performance by an Actress in a Featured Role in a Play
Annaleigh Ashford, You Can't Take It With You
Patricia Clarkson, The Elephant Man
Lydia Leonard, Wolf Hall Parts One & Two
Sarah Stiles, Hand to God
Julie White, Airline Highway
Best Performance by an Actor in a Featured Role in a Musical
Christian Borle, Something Rotten!
Andy Karl, On the Twentieth Century
Brad Oscar, Something Rotten!
Brandon Uranowitz, An American in Paris
Max von Essen, An American in Paris
Best Performance by an Actress in a Featured Role in a Musical
Victoria Clark, Gigi
Judy Kuhn, Fun Home
Sydney Lucas, Fun Home
Ruthie Ann Miles, The King and I
Emily Skeggs, Fun Home
Best Direction of a Play
Stephen Daldry, Skylight
Marianne Elliott, The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time
Scott Ellis, You Can't Take It With You
Jeremy Herrin, Wolf Hall Parts One & Two
Moritz von Stuelpnagel, Hand to God
Best Direction of a Musical
Sam Gold, Fun Home
Casey Nicholaw, Something Rotten!
John Rando, On the Town
Bartlett Sher, The King and I
Christopher Wheeldon, An American in Paris
Best Book of a Musical
An American in Paris, Craig Lucas
Fun Home, Lisa Kron
Something Rotten!, Karey Kirkpatrick and John O'Farrell
The Visit, Terrence McNally
Best Original Score (Music and/or Lyrics) Written for the Theatre
Fun Home, Music: Jeanine Tesori, Lyrics: Lisa Kron
The Last Ship, Music and Lyrics: Sting
Something Rotten!, Music and Lyrics: Wayne Kirkpatrick and Karey Kirkpatrick
The Visit, Music: John Kander, Lyrics: Fred Ebb
Best Choreography
Joshua Bergasse, On the Town
Christopher Gattelli, The King and I
Scott Graham & Steven Hoggett, The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time
Casey Nicholaw, Something Rotten!
Christopher Wheeldon, An American in Paris
Best Orchestrations
Christopher Austin, Don Sebesky, Bill Elliott, An American in Paris
John Clancy, Fun Home
Larry Hochman, Something Rotten!
Rob Mathes, The Last Ship
Best Scenic Design of a Play
Bunny Christie and Finn Ross, The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time
Bob Crowley, Skylight
Christopher Oram, Wolf Hall Parts One & Two
David Rockwell, You Can't Take It With You
Best Scenic Design of a Musical
Bob Crowley and 59 Productions, An American in Paris
David Rockwell, On the Twentieth Century
Michael Yeargan, The King and I
David Zinn, Fun Home
Best Costume Design of a Play
Bob Crowley, The Audience
Jane Greenwood, You Can't Take It With You
Christopher Oram, Wolf Hall Parts One & Two
David Zinn, Airline Highway
Best Costume Design of a Musical
Gregg Barnes, Something Rotten!
Bob Crowley, An American in Paris
William Ivey Long, On the Twentieth Century
Catherine Zuber, The King and I
Best Lighting Design of a Play
Paule Constable, The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time
Paule Constable and David Plater, Wolf Hall Parts One & Two
Natasha Katz, Skylight
Japhy Weideman, Airline Highway
Best Lighting Design of a Musical
Donald Holder, The King and I
Natasha Katz, An American in Paris
Ben Stanton, Fun Home
Japhy Weideman, The Visit
Special Tony Award for Lifetime Achievement in the Theatre
Tommy Tune
Regional Theatre Tony Award
Cleveland Play House, Cleveland, Ohio
Isabelle Stevenson Tony Award
Stephen Schwartz
Special Tony Award
John Cameron Mitchell
Tony Honors for Excellence in the Theatre
Arnold Abramson
Adrian Bryan-Brown
Gene O’Donovan
Correction: This post originally said Wolf Hall was about Oliver Cromwell. It is about Thomas Cromwell instead.
Born during the Cold War, sprinkled with daddy issues, and blessed with an unquenchable megalomania, Ultron, a robot created by the most troubled Avenger in history, has been one of the great Avengers villains for 46 years. Now, he will play the main baddie in the upcoming Avengers: Age of Ultron, wreaking havoc on Earth's mightiest franchise.
Ultron's staying power is a sterling example of how the comic book industry has continually held a mirror up to society. The Ultron story has tracked fears of communism, of nuclear war, and now of artificial intelligence. But he began with a scheme that redefined comic book evil.

Avengers no. 54 (Marvel)
Ultron first appears in Avengers no. 54 — written by Roy Thomas and illustrated by John Buscema in 1968 — but this isn't really an appearance at all. In disguise, he goes by the name Crimson Cowl and is, yes, draped in a crimson (in all honesty, it's pink) cowl.

Readers learn the Cowl has assembled a group of villains who want to take down the Avengers. At first glance, none of this seems particularly significant. Villains hatch plots to take down the Avengers all the time. Mysterious figures are a dime a dozen. And the plot, involving brainwashing, isn't all that memorable.
Where Thomas's plot breaks free from the norm of the time — and sets Ultron on the path to becoming one of the most sinister villains the Avengers have ever seen — is in the villain's plan. Ultron wants to capture the Avengers, stick them into a hydrogen bomb, and blow it up over Manhattan:

Avengers no. 55 (Marvel)
This kind of diabolical master plan represented a type of evil that was rarely seen in comics of the time — largely thanks to a mandate called the Comics Code, which began in the '50s.
The Comics Code seal of approval
Comics have always reflected reality — even if only subconsciously. In the years following WWII, there was a rise of superheroes who got their powers from nuclear explosions, as well as a rise in comic books about war, crime, and horror. With the rising popularity of the latter, adults began tying juvenile delinquency to comic books. The US Senate cobbled together a subcommittee in April of 1954 to address the growing "problem" of comic books and their "effect" on juvenile delinquency.
This hearing soured the American public's view of comic books as art. Sean Howe, author of Marvel Comics: The Untold Story, points out that 15 publishers went out of business that summer.
With a public relations nightmare looming, surviving comics publishers banded together in September 1954 to form what's known as the Comics Magazine Association of America. It created one of the most damaging documents the industry has ever seen: the Comics Code.
The Comics Code aimed to change public perception of comic books by removing the industry's gory bits. What it did was defang and neuter comic books and bind the industry's artistic creativity.
Howe explains:
According to the new Comics Code, covers could not even include the words horror and terror; under no circumstances were zombies, vampires, ghouls, or werewolves permitted to appear anywhere in the comics. Furthermore — and this is where the rules tipped into the Orwellian — there could be no sympathy created for criminals, nor disrespect of the sanctity of marriage. "Good," the rules demanded, "must triumph over evil."
Though there was no penalty for violating the Code, distributors only wanted to sell comics bearing its seal.
One thing the Code allowed for, however, was superheroes, who began filling comics pages again. And along with those heroes were over-the-top supervillains who'd never be mistaken for werewolves, vampires, or zombies. This is why the villains in Avengers no. 54 — the Klaw, Whirlwind, the Melter, and Radioactive Man — look goofy in hindsight.
But with Ultron, Thomas didn't just set the form of one of the greatest Avengers villains in history. He also changed the characterization of evil, and helped usher in a different, darker way to tell stories that would come to full fruition in the '80s.
Thomas, who taught high school English in Missouri and was an avid fan of comic books before joining Marvel, carefully positioned Ultron as leader, demoting the "Masters of Evil," by making them his puppets:
Marvel
Marvel
Avengers no. 55 (Marvel)
The Masters of Evil's dreams of taking down the Avengers, robbing banks, and conquering the world paled in comparison to Ultron, who wanted everything to burn. Along with Ultron, the mid to late '60s also saw Marvel introduce more serious villains like HYDRA, Magneto, and Bolivar Trask and his Sentinels.
Thomas's work on Ultron reflects the fears of the Cold War era. In 1967, China tested its first hydrogen bomb, and France followed the year after. And there are times when Ultron feels like a tale of a doomsday device gone sentient — if humans won't destroy the world, Ultron's arc reveals, a machine will.

Avengers no. 58 (Marvel)
Though we're introduced to Ultron in the "Masters of Evil" arc, we don't find out his origin until four issues later in Avengers no. 58. Hank Pym, a.k.a. Ant-Man, is Ultron's creator — and he didn't even know it.
Pym was one of Marvel's most troubled superheroes. His powers — changing his size — weren't as flashy as Thor's or Iron Man's. And his intelligence wasn't as revered as Reed Richards's. He was the Ringo of the Avengers.
"His history was largely a litany of failure, always changing guises and switching back and forth from research to hero-ing because he wasn't succeeding at either," Jim Shooter, a former editor-in-chief at Marvel wrote on his site, explaining Pym's shortcomings. "He was never the Avenger who saved the day at the end and usually the first knocked out or captured."
Ultron's origin was another indication that Marvel was changing the way it thought of bad guys and the importance of where evil comes from. Marvel wanted to make it clear that villains' beginnings mattered and that it benefits storytelling and superheroes when a story's antagonist has nuance and depth.
It's, thus, deeply poetic that in Pym's long-running history of failures, Ultron was his greatest creation.

Avengers no. 58 (Marvel)
Though Ultron is a robot/embodiment of artificial intelligence, he still subscribes to the human conventions of family. He resents that his father is a simpleton and failure. He is on a mission to buck control. This reflects another political reality of the time: during the '60s — the time when Ultron was conceived and written — white men controlled everything, largely without question.
And then things changed.
The Civil Rights and Women's Liberation movements caused people to question the system, highlighting how much power lay in the hands of so few. The government waged a far-off war that people increasingly turned against. The Cold War loomed over the country, and Americans started to distrust technology that seemed to build only better and better doomsday devices.
Thomas's Ultron represents any or all of that. And Thomas's background in teaching literature shows itself in themes like Ultron's Oedipus complex, and Pym's tragedy. But the clearest thing that Thomas wanted to get across is how eager man can be when hammering the nails in his own coffin. The true horror of Ultron is about the loss of control:

Avengers no.58 (Marvel)

Hank Pym hits his wife in Avengers no. 213 (Marvel)
Though Ultron kills many people, his greatest destruction is the psyche of Hank Pym. Ultron becomes a symbol of shame, disappointment, and failure for Pym. Both characters would draw from this dark reservoir of contempt and frustration throughout the years, with Pym always trying to make up for his creation.
Pym's desperation speaks to a fear about his legacy and pride. This all comes to a boil in one of the greatest Ultron stories ever told, Kurt Busiek's Ultron Unlimited arc in 1999.
In that story, Ultron slaughters the inhabitants of a fictional country called Slorenia, then raises up a robot army from their remains. Pym has to come to terms with what he has created and admit to himself that the scariest part of Ultron is that there's a bit of himself in it:

Ultron Unlimited (Marvel)
Ultron's evil always felt organic, but knowing that it stems from a human source changes its tone. Busiek drives home the idea that evil is a human creation and that it just doesn't happen on its own. And realizing that, as Pym does here, is devastating.
When Thomas created Ultron, his intent was to capture mankind's greatest fears of the time, and wind those fears around the theme of technology. But technology has advanced rapidly since then. The topics — hydrogen bombs, doomsday devices, the Cold War — that Thomas was tackling in the '60s are now anachronisms or givens. There is, however, an original component from Thomas's conception that's remained completely relevant — the twin ideas of artificial intelligence and a technological singularity.
That was fully realized in Brian Michael Bendis's Age of Ultron arc, published in 2013.
"I'm kind of obsessed with artificial intelligence in the real world and why people are scared of it," Bendis said during the promotional tour for AOU.  "If there were a Marvel Singularity, it would be from Ultron. This is the moment technology takes over in a hostile way."

Age of Ultron #1 (Marvel)
Though Age of Ultron shares its name with the movie, they have nothing in common. AOU is a look at a dystopian world where Ultron has succeeded in wiping out humanity with only a handful of Marvel's heroes left to save them. Compared to other Ultron stories of the past, AOU probably doesn't make the Ultron hall of fame.
But Bendis's story is riveting in that it reflects very real fears about A.I. We live in a world with driverless cars, drones, and computers that can win at chess and Jeopardy. It can't be that long before someone tries to create their own Ultron, can it?
This past summer, my colleague Dylan Matthews talked to Nick Bostrom, an Oxford professor, who theorizes that artificial intelligence will hit a point where it shucks human control and decides that the world may be better off without us.
Bostrom explained:
We did a survey of opinions among some of the leading experts in artificial intelligence, which I report in the book. One of the questions we ask was, "by what year do you think there is a 50 percent probability that we will have human-level machine intelligence?" And the median answer to that was 2040 or 2050, depending on precisely which group of experts we polled.
Elon Musk, the man behind Tesla and a real-life Tony Stark of sorts, is taking Bostrom seriously. Back in August, he expressed how he was concerned about the advancement of A.I. and how we could be "summoning a demon":
Worth reading Superintelligence by Bostrom. We need to be super careful with AI. Potentially more dangerous than nukes.

Musk added:
Hope we're not just the biological boot loader for digital superintelligence. Unfortunately, that is increasingly probable

Again, this is a very smart man saying this, someone who is taken seriously and is known for being a step ahead in the game of technology and innovation. And what he's worried about is an Ultron-like scenario. The character's relevance remains.

(Marvel)
Though Hank Pym exists in the comic books, he has yet to make appearance in Marvel's cinematic universe. So if Pym is so involved in Ultron's storyline, how do you get away with this story in the movies?
According to director Joss Whedon and the powers that be at Marvel, Tony Stark is going to unwittingly release Ultron upon this world. That's why Stark is spending most of the Avengers 2 trailer looking distraught and pensive.

"It's the end. It's the end of the path I started us on," Stark says in the trailer, which could suggest he believes the end of the Avengers is his doing.
We saw Marvel lay the groundwork for Stark's creation of Ultron back in Iron Man 3, when he showed that he can control Iron Man suits like you would drones (another piece of modern technology we have substantial concerns about). Creating Ultron as a mistake in his remote suit program could make total sense.
In Captain America: Winter Soldier, we also saw the terrorist group Hydra infiltrate S.H.I.E.L.D., the government agency that bankrolls the Avengers, causing the team, along with Nick Fury and Maria Hill, to go rogue and use Tony Stark's wealth to fund the initiative. This puts even more of the focus on Stark's position as leader, and even more emotional weight when his greatest creation turns against him.
Even though Pym isn't in the film (that we know of) and Ultron's origin story has been tweaked, the villainous robot should still work, because his story has always been about the fears of our advancement and our relationship with our own creations.
Technology no longer belongs to a select few. It has been democratized, and there are more people working and creating apps and gadgets every day. From our dating livesto driving, our relationship with our technology is more intimate than ever before.
Ultron isn't some being from another land or some supernatural force. He's more insidious, born from our own technology, created by our best and brightest. And that makes Ultron a perfectly-tailored villain not just for the Avengers, but for us as well.
WATCH: All the Easter eggs in the Age of Ultron trailers
In Avengers: Age of Ultron, the Avengers will take on one of the most powerful beings the Marvel universe has ever seen. This being has decimated supergroups, wiped out wide populations of people, and, in some circles, is one of the most hated characters ever created. And this individual has, in the comic books, the power to cause utter devastation.
We're not talking about Ultron.
Her name is the Scarlet Witch, a.k.a. Wanda Maximoff (played by Elizabeth Olsen). She'll be making her big cinematic debut in AOU, some 51 years after her first appearance in Marvel comic books.
That long delay between print and film isn't because Wanda is boring. Indeed, it's the opposite.
Her origin is as complex and bizarre as any you'll find at Marvel. She was abandoned at birth and raised, at various points, by a sentient humanoid cow, gypsies, and Magneto, the villainous master of magnetism. Her powers — being able to alter probability and tap into chaos magic — are strange, too, and seemingly difficult to depict in a movie.
In fact, there's enough to the Scarlet Witch's story that it could easily fill three Avengers movies.

Uncanny X-Men No. 4. (Marvel)
The first thing you'll notice about the Scarlet Witch is the way her costume looks like a strange crown-mask hybrid. It frames her face, making her look like an evil queen from a land of bizarre geometry.
That's the work of comic book legend Jack Kirby, who had a penchant for giving his villains strange headpieces that toed the line between silly and majestic.
The outfit dates back to Scarlet Witch's first appearance in Kirby and Stan Lee's Uncanny X-Men No. 4 (1964). The cover is classic Kirby. Magneto, with his band of villains called the Brotherhood of Evil Mutants, flexes his arm and grits his teeth, looking like he's going to crush the X-Men with his clenched fists. But Scarlet Witch and her brother, Quicksilver — a.k.a. Pietro Maximoff — look uninterested in being there.
That's the story of the issue in an image.
Wanda and Pietro aren't Magneto's typical henchmen. They're disdainful of their colleagues, though not without reason. Toad is disgusting, and Mastermind is a persistent creeper:

Please take a moment to appreciate Pietro's insistence on manners. (Marvel)
Lee and Kirby don't paint the Brotherhood as a serious force embodying Magneto's ideologies. Hence the attention paid to Toad's lack of manners and Mastermind's lack of chill:

Mastermind is a creeper. (Marvel)
Lee and Kirby drive home this idea when we find out that Wanda and Pietro aren't fully convinced of Magneto's ideology of mutants being superior and humankind being their slaves. They're reluctant members of his cause.
Pietro is only there because he loves Wanda and will go wherever she goes. And Wanda is only there because she feels like she owes Magneto something after he saved the two of them from an angry European lynch mob (a recurring theme in both Marvel comics and Scarlet Witch's origin story). When a man tries to sexually assault the Scarlet Witch, she defends herself and incurs the wrath of the village. Magneto stops the villagers in the nick of time:

Sometimes it's better to die than to owe Magneto something. (Marvel)
Wanda burning down the village is a brief taste of an unwieldy origin story involving Magneto, a concentration camp, that sentient humanoid cow, and infants switched at birth. But this scene also establishes Scarlet Witch and Magneto's disparate personalities.
Magneto holds the rescue over Scarlet Witch's head like a loan that's impossible to repay. She, wanting to do the right thing, wants to make right with Magneto. In fact, in her initial appearance, Lee writes Wanda as a calm people-pleaser — constantly deferring to others, putting up with Mastermind, and talking Pietro down from fighting other members of the team. (Comic book stories from this period reflected and were imbued with the sexism of the times. And female heroes were often marginalized.)
Wanda doesn't seem to enjoy being powerful. She only uses her power — an ability to "hex" people and objects — to protect her brother:

It's unclear whether Wanda Maximoff is a UT fan. (Marvel)
In introducing the ominous-sounding Brotherhood of Evil Mutants, Kirby and Lee also lay the foundation for Scarlet Witch's transformation into a hero.
Misunderstood and afraid of what her powers can do, Wanda wants to protect others. And people hate her for reasons beyond her control — thus, she has more in common with an X-Men character like Jean Grey than she does with Magneto. It's no surprise that she and her brother eventually defect from the Brotherhood.

TIL: superheroes can write cover letters too. (Marvel)
Wanda and Pietro's origin stories — being hated by humans, having immense power, and having the desire to control those powers — fit the civil rights themes so prominent in X-Men.
But in Avengers No. 16, Lee and Kirby reveal that Wanda and Pietro don't want to be reminded of their mutant origins.
"The Avengers might accept us without caring we are different — without always reminding us we are mutants!!" Pietro tells Wanda.
Wanda, the slightly co-dependent people-pleaser that she is, lets him call the shots.
"I shall do as you wish, my brother," she replies.
In one of the cutest moments in Marvel history, they write the Avengers a letter expressing interest in becoming members. It's this choice — between the X-Men and the Avengers — that best exemplifies the difference between the two supergroups. The universally loved Avengers are celebrities — the glamour squad. Meanwhile, the X-Men are heroes hated by the people they want to protect.
There was also a logistical reason for adding the Scarlet Witch to the squad. At the time, Lee was diligent about continuity. Some Avengers were off doing things in their own comics, and to keep stories lined up, Lee would have them disappear (temporarily) from the Avengers' adventures. Thus, he needed new characters to keep the Avengers from feeling empty.
When Scarlet Witch joined the Avengers, writers began fleshing out her story. Roy Thomas came up with a romance between Wanda and the sentient humanoid android Vision that would be explored in emotional, painful ways. She was given a more defined power set by Steve Englehart, who wove the idea of demonic chaos magic into her abilities.
Finally, in 1979 — some 15 years after Wanda's creation — her backstory is told in Avengers Nos. 185–187. In those issues, she's drawn by John Byrne, who made her more glamorous and traditionally romantic. Her eyes were more expressive. Her cheekbones were sharpened. And her lips became full and pouty:

Artist John Byrne put a lot of glamour into the Scarlet Witch. (Marvel)
From a sentient cow named Bova the Midwife, we find out that Quicksilver and the Scarlet Witch were born at a place called Wundagore Mountain. Their mother, Magda, had come to the mountain pregnant and looking for help, and Bova was there to assist.
Magda ran away because her husband, Max Eisenhardt — a.k.a. Erik Lehnsherr, a.k.a. Magneto — destroyed an entire village of angry rioters (European lynch mob number two in the Scarlet Witch's origin) who fought him and didn't allow him to save their daughter (Pietro and Wanda's older sister) from a fire.
Magda left the twins under the care of Bova:

Bova the Midwife being awesome. (Marvel)
When life presents you with children you can't care for and a husband you want to hide from, leaving your twins with a cow named Bova the Midwife seems like a good idea.
Bova's boss, a being called the High Evolutionary, eventually places Wanda and Pietro under the care of the Maximoffs, a family of Roma gypsies:

When the High Evolutionary says you adopt, you listen. (Marvel)
Years later, the Scarlet Witch's powers start manifesting themselves. Her "hex" powers accidentally start a fire that burns her adopted mother to death, and a third angry mob drives Pietro and Wanda out of town. To be clear, this isn't the same angry mob Magneto stopped — that happens while they're on the run from the mob that witnessed the apparent mom-killing:

Quicksilver and the Scarlet Witch flee one of the three European lynch mobs in their history. (Marvel)
There's a lot of meat in these stories. They don't just establish Wanda's origin story. They also tackle stories of discrimination and European sociopolitics, particularly with references to the Maximoffs' adopted ethnicity. To this day, Roma discrimination exists in Europe. When Elizabeth Olsen was cast as the character, there were fans who believed going with a blonde-haired blue-eyed actress would be abandoning the character's roots.
But these issues also establish that the characters can be heroes and good people even with all this ugliness in their lives. Their biological dad thinks he's the mutant messiah. Their biological mother abandoned them. Wanda accidentally killed her adopted mother, and the two watched as a village beat their adopted father to a bloody pulp.
Wanda is a plague — she obliterates everything she touches— and there's absolutely no reason she should be a hero or believe in humanity. In future issues, her powers would cause her to lose the love of her life and her children.
But even though she has every reason to abandon all hope, Wanda believes in the good of people and the good in herself.
The Scarlet Witch never enjoyed the spotlight some of the other female characters in the Marvel universe had. For better or worse, Wanda wasn't a sex symbol like Emma Frost or Psylocke. She didn't have the regal prominence of Storm. And among the Avengers, she was often outshone by characters like Carol Danvers (Captain Marvel), the Wasp, and Spider-Woman.
Much of that has to do with Wanda's powers — which are really strange. With a character like, say, Storm, readers know what they're getting. "Storm" sounds like she has something to do with the weather, and lo and behold, Storm can manipulate lightning, conjure up tornadoes, and, yes, control the weather. The Scarlet Witch, by contrast, is an aggressively unspecific code name.
In Kirby and Lee's initial portrayal, she had the power to "hex" people and things. According to Marvel, this means she can do many things:
The Scarlet Witch can tap into mystic energy for reality-altering effects; this power was formerly limited to the creation of "hex-spheres" of reality-disrupting quasi-psionic force to cause molecular disturbances in a target's probability field, resulting in spontaneous combustion, deflection of objects in flight, and so on.
Wanda's powers can change probability and, as we saw, make ceilings fall on people, though it isn't outright telekinesis (the act of moving things with your mind). And she can make things explode, but not in the way things usually explode (with application of heat).
This is incredibly vague.
What's even stranger is that a demonic elder god named Chthon was written into Wanda's storyline to give her magical powers that were even more more powerful and more vague:

(Marvel)
Marvel's 2005 event "House of M" and its follow-up "Decimation" would define the Scarlet Witch for the next decade. In "House of M," we learn Professor X is trying to take care of Wanda as she's on the verge of a psychotic breakdown. What makes it worse is that her powers have increased and expanded so much that she can warp reality on a planetary scale.
Wanda's imminent break doesn't come out of the blue. It's the culmination of a life of heartbreak, pain, and fear. Her mental illness is a life's worth of trauma realized.
Because Wanda becomes a giant threat, the Avengers and X-Men assemble to argue whether to let her live as a threat to humanity or to kill her and save the world from a potential disaster:

Emma Frost is stone cold.  (Marvel)
This eventually results in the Scarlet Witch creating a utopia where superheroes and mutants are adored. When everyone realizes what's happened and confronts her and Pietro (who talked her into this whole mess), Wanda commits one of the most devastating acts in Marvel history:

Oh man. Yes, she did just do that. (Marvel)
With those three words, Wanda de-powered more than 90 percent of the Earth's mutant population. In doing so, she became one of the most hated characters in the Marvel universe. Fans were upset some of their favorites had no more powers. Many of those characters were subsequently written off, either sent home because they were de-powered or killed off. Editorially, certain X-Men, like Rogue, grew to hate and distrust Wanda for what she did.
This event, known in the comic books as "M-Day," drove a wedge between the Avengers and the X-Men. Though some wounds have healed, there's always a reminder of what Wanda did and what life could have been if she had been killed.
Wanda's reality warping is in line with her character's history. She has always used her powers to protect her brother, and she's accidentally harmed the people she's loved most with her gifts many times. She wants to set things right. What makes this particular act so defining is that we finally see how human Wanda is — after a life of being a martyr, an outcast, and a victim. And humans can have moments when they're selfish and impulsive.
There is no easy way to explain the Scarlet Witch's powers without delving into a whirlpool of esoteric characters, plots, and explanations. That's why screenwriters and director Joss Whedon streamlined and simplified the character in Avengers: Age of Ultron.
Whedon stated in 2014 that her powers would be more along the lines of mind control or suggestion ("[She] can weave spells and a little telekinesis, get inside your head"). Gone are the hexes and mumbo jumbo about probability. Instead, the AOU trailers have shown the Scarlet Witch (Elizabeth Olsen) using mind control:

The Scarlet Witch messing with Black Widow's mind. (Marvel)
But she also uses her powers in energy blasts to take down some of Ultron's robot army (look for her at the bottom right of your screen):

Pew. Pew. Pew. Look at Scarlet Witch go.  (Marvel)
Because of the way film rights work, Wanda's origin story will also change. Back in the '90s, Marvel, on the brink on bankruptcy, sold the film rights to many of its characters to film studios. Fox got the X-Men, along with the primary villains and characters in that universe. It would seem like the studio would have dibs on Wanda and Pietro — they are Magneto's kids, after all.
But here's the catch. Wanda and Pietro occupy a weird space in the Marvel universe, in that they appear in both Avengers and X-Men comic books. And with their appearance in Avengers: Age of Ultron, alongside Pietro's appearance in X-Men: Days of Future Past, it seems like both studios have rights to both characters — just in slightly different versions. (The legal agreement spelling out these rights is sealed.)
We won't see any reference to mutants or Wanda's comic book origin in Age of Ultron. But if the movie follows the Marvel comic book This Scepter'd Isle, a digital companion to the movie, we will see the twins' powers unlocked by Loki's scepter.
During the Avengers media blitz promoting Age of Ultron, Elizabeth Olsen confirmed she will be in Captain America: Civil War. That makes sense. It would be hard to create a movie about a civil war among the Avengers if the Avengers were only a six-person team. That's more like Captain America: Friends Disagree.
It's also about time the cinematic Avengers had more women in their ranks. The comic book team is filled with powerful (She-Hulk) and complex (Captain Marvel) female characters. In the comic books after M-Day, the Scarlet Witch has gone toe to toe with the Phoenix Force, one of the most powerful entities in the Marvel universe, and helped save the world.The Scarlet Witch's inclusion could also allow an avenue for Marvel to explore its magical universe with Dr. Strange.
But Wanda's story in the comic books is fascinating, too. During Axis, a Marvel event published in late 2014, readers learned Magneto isn't really the father of Scarlet Witch or Quicksilver when Wanda casts a spell to injure her family but Magneto is left unharmed:

The Scarlet Witch has a Maury Povich moment. (Marvel)
This is what's known as a retcon, short for retroactive continuity — when writers and editors change up what's been written and accepted as canon. This dilemma is still being solved — Wanda and Pietro are in a comic book with the High Evolutionary (Bova the Midwife's boss), trying to make sense of their identities. (You could just as easily make the argument that Magneto being the pair's father was a retcon, too.)
The bigger question surrounding Wanda and Pietro is whether their comic book story is part of a bigger, company-wide strategy to better serve their studio. Marvel Studios had a rights problem with Pietro and Wanda being Magneto's kids — and they've now ostensibly "solved" it by altering the source material. And if that happened with these characters, what's to stop Marvel from altering other characters? Thanks to the sealing of legal documents, it's unclear what this means in regards to film rights.
What we do know is that for the first time, the Scarlet Witch that comic book fans have loved (and hated) in the pages of the Avengers and X-Men is making an appearance in a movie. Millions of fans get to see the character in action. If we're lucky, Marvel, Joss Whedon, Elizabeth Olsen, and everyone behind Age of Ultron will give this character the presence she deserves.
WATCH: 'Easter eggs in the Age of Ultron trailers'
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and political writer Dylan Matthews. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Libby Nelson: "Shut the Door, Have a Seat" is my all-time favorite episode of Mad Men. That doesn't mean I think it's the best thing the show's ever done — I know it's not — but it's by far the episode I enjoy most, the one I'll return to and rewatch for fun.
Dylan, I agree with you that Mad Men is at its best when it has a plot, even if telling someone what happens is not synonymous with spoiling an episode. And so I loved "Time & Life," with all of the echoes and callbacks to the third-season finale that Todd pointed out in his recap.
I've spent most of my professional life so far working at startups. So to me, Dylan, the fear that SC&P will lose its autonomy and its identity to McCann — even though the partners should have known this was possible, and maybe even likely, when they sold the company — rings very true. I believe that's how the partners who were present at the creation feel. This was their dream, and they didn't just give up on it when they sold the company; now they're going to see it battered to pieces.
But the four seasons since "Shut the Door. Have a Seat" have complicated the narrative of the founders' triumph. Since Sterling Cooper Draper Pryce (the predecessor to SC&P) was founded, Lane has killed himself; Joan was essentially pimped out in order to win the Cadillac account; Bert has died; Don has lost his job and fallen apart. Was it worth it? The agency hasn't felt like itself since the merger with Cutler, Gleason, and Chaough, and with a few exceptions, like the Burger Chef pitch, the advertising storylines have withered.
If these characters still care about their work, Matthew Weiner certainly hasn't shown it. Last week, I assumed this was part of the withering relationships between the characters: advertising is a collaborative industry, and the more isolated Don, Pete, Roger, Peggy, and Joan have become, the less we've seen them working together toward a common goal. Then this episode comes and blows all that away.
I can't remember the last time we saw so many great interpersonal interactions between these characters — from Joan and Roger's hug to Ken Cosgrove relishing every minute of his new role to every scene Pete Campbell was in. As an education reporter, I should probably weigh in on the predictive validity of the draw-a-man test — it was very modern in the 1960s — and talk about the evolution of New York's competitive preschool admissions market. But I'm going to put that on the back burner for now. Everything about the scene in the school admissions office is too good to spoil with standardized testing jargon or explanations of ancient Scottish feuds.
So instead I'll dwell on, to me, the indelible moment from "Time & Life": the raw, open conversation between Peggy and Stan, the first time she's admitted to anyone other than Pete (and presumably Don, who was present after the child's birth) that she had a baby and gave him up for adoption. (Even more time has elapsed for these characters than for us, so her son would be around 9 years old by now — older than the children she was playing with.) Mad Men has never stopped nodding in that direction, but in its waning days, it seems to be giving up on subtlety in favor of blasting its message loud and clear.
And one of those messages is that you can't escape the past. "Shut the Door. Have a Seat" was the last time Mad Men felt like it believed in a fresh start. Didn't Matthew Weiner used to talk about Mad Men as a story about the fall of New York and the rise of California? Ending with SCDP becoming Sterling Cooper West seemed like a plausible conclusion for much of its life. But instead, we got Ted and Pete moving to California and coming back. Don is the only one who still believes he can go west and reinvent himself, even in Megan's city. The past is never really over.
Todd, what did you make of Peggy's confession? What other loose ends are we going to revisit in the final three episodes? Am I right that it feels like Joan, not just Don, is on the verge of a revelation? And who was right: the MacDonalds or the Campbells?
Read the recap, and come back tomorrow for more thoughts from Todd.
Previous entry
Next: Todd on Don's fear of having a lack of options
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by culture writer Kelsey McKinney and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Kelsey McKinney: Todd, you're right. The Seven Kingdoms really do feel like a whole new world in season five.
Last season built its tension around the way people interact and relate to each other in a world torn apart by constant upheaval. By contrast, season five has already established itself as taking place in a time when war might not be currently on screen, but it's constantly in the back of your mind as a viewer.
The producers of the show are unable to adapt George R. R. Martin's books directly to the screen in season five, because it wouldn't make for good television. Watching Brienne wander Westeros so that we might better see the heartbreak of citizens scarred by war works on the page, but it could be deathly boring on TV. All the same, it seems like showrunners David Benioff and D. B. Weiss have found small ways to make this season feel like a moment of calm between storms.
This struck me in "High Sparrow," filled with drama though it was. In particular, I found myself responding most to Margaery Tyrell, now the queen of Westeros. Women in Westeros rarely fight on the fields of war, but their fate is just as determined by what goes on there. For no character has this been more apparent than Margaery. After her first husband, Renley Baratheon, died, everything anyone around her did seemed geared toward marrying her into the royal family.
The showrunners have found small ways to make this season feel like a moment of calm between storms
This began with an awful engagement to King Joffrey, and — as planned — ended with a crown on Margaery's head. That plan, though, was short-lived, due to Joffrey's death (which also seems to be part of the Tyrells' overall plot).
All of which brings me to Margaery's third wedding, which also took place in "High Sparrow." By the end of season four, Westerosi weddings were a good place to anticipate terrible slaughter. Many Starks had, after all, been killed at the Red Wedding in season three, and Joffrey's poisoning also occurred at a wedding. But Margaery's wedding to Tommen Baratheon bucks the overall trend of weddings ending in horrible murder (luckily for her).
Tommen is young, but he's older than the Tommen of the book. His wedding to Margaery is a lot less pompous than Joffrey's was, but it seems to end almost happily (if anything does on this show). The two of them spend a productive wedding night tangled up together, smiling and laughing. Tommen, inexperienced in sexual behavior, seems entranced by the manipulative Margaery, who aims only to drive a wedge between him and her mother.
"This is all I want to do. All day, every day, for the rest of my life," Tommen says to Margaery. She laughs, but it's the laugh of a woman for whom sex is a necessary tool to maintain stability.
The next day, we see Margaery through the eyes of Cersei when the old queen pays the new queen a visit. The camera sits behind Cersei's shoulder, and we see Margaery how the queen mother does — as a young, naive, and childish woman who dreams only of romantic things like children and a family.
But Cersei underestimates Margaery — and is starting to understand just how much. The new queen is more hardened than she might seem at first blush. She's strategic and intentional, and she's pushing Tommen to do what she needs him to do.
For Margaery, life will never be calm as it might be during a peaceful time. But she's still fighting her own war for Tommen's ultimate loyalty — and a victory there might give her the upper hand when war returns to Westeros.
Read the recap. We'll have more thoughts later in the day.
Previous entry
Next: Andrew explains the show in eight beheadings.
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and political writer Dylan Matthews. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Dylan Matthews: Todd, in your recap you note that the season-three finale, "Shut the Door. Have a Seat," is "deliberately mirrored" in "Time & Life." That's the main lens through which I watched it, at least as soon as McCann's endgame was made clear. And it was an exciting parallel, especially coming so late in the final season. Mad Men is, as you've argued, extremely adept at using subtext to convey major emotional shifts.
But it's also a show that, contrary to Matthew Weiner's own thinking (to quote from your video: "Telling somebody what happened on Mad Men, that's like a sentence"), often works best when there's a clear plot. "Shut the Door," "The Other Woman," "In Care Of": all of these contain hugely consequential events that felt natural, earned, and, most important, big. Even "The Suitcase" — on some level just an episode of Don and Peggy hanging out — counts under this rubric. They were just hanging out, but the fight and reconciliation were themselves important events in the pair's lives.
"Time & Life" doesn't feel big. Part of that is because our would-be heroes lose, and not in the aftermath of a spirited fight, either. It's not that the partners get thisclose to making Sterling Cooper West happen, only to be foiled. They barely broach the idea, and then it's shut down.
But honestly, the quick defeat didn't even bother me too much. I like the theme of Don, Roger, Pete, Joan, and Ted not being able to get what they want, of rehashing "Shut the Door" to prove that 1970 is not 1964, that people like them don't always get to win anymore, and, crucially, that they're the establishment now, not the rebels.
The problem is that the very fact that Sterling Cooper & Partners isn't the underdog makes the stakes of a McCann takeover feel rather low. In "Shut the Door," McCann really did feel like a corporate overlord that would stifle Don's creativity, and the new company really did feel like a bold startup with the potential to do things differently. But by 1970, what's distinctive about SC&P? What sets it apart from McCann, really? And at this point, does it even matter to Don, who's been disengaged from his work since the back half of the season began?
Maybe that's the point. Maybe the partners only tried to resist a takeover because that's what they do in this situation. "We were founded to resist a McCann takeover! We're the people who bolt when the suits come! How can we not fight back?" Maybe they're just going through the motions, and as soon as Jim Hobart points that out to them, their will collapses.
No one really seems to care about, or for, their job anymore
But I ultimately have a hard time recognizing this as a "shitty deal," as you put it. They lose their autonomy? Which of them really cares for their autonomy anymore? When's the last time you heard Roger, Ted, Joan, or Pete say anything that suggested passion for their work?
When Don went around the office asking people what they wanted out of the future of the company, basically everyone said "a bigger account," or some version thereof. Well, McCann has big accounts. It has Coca-freaking-Cola. Satisfied? Or is it just the thrill of nabbing one that motivates these people, rather than getting to shape how the nation's biggest companies sell themselves?
Don, of course, wasn't satisfied with "a bigger account." He wanted something more, something bigger. But that's just Don being Don. He's deeply depressed and prone to existential ruminating. What else is new? There's no development at his workplace that could change that in Don.
In "Shut the Door," I really bought that the future of these people's careers was on the line. They knew what they were there for. Don lived for creative work; Roger thrived on his personal relationships with clients. But I don't buy it anymore.
No one seems to really care about, or for, their job anymore. So who cares if it changes slightly?
Read the recap, and come back tomorrow for Libby's first thoughts.
Previous entry
Next: Libby on the characters' last chance at a new beginning
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and political writer Dylan Matthews. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Todd VanDerWerff: Episodes like "Time & Life" are why I watch Mad Men. I don't want to suggest the episode was perfect or the best thing the show has ever done or anything like that. But there's something so satisfying in that moment when a bunch of disparate story strands come together and reveal where everything has been headed all along.
But even more important, "Time & Life" revealed that we haven't just been making stuff up in these chats every week. Everything we've been talking about was here: the apocalyptic sense of doom, the growing sense that the world has completely changed, and the intense focus on the shifting fortunes of the show's women. It was an episode in which Don was driving much of the action, but he wasn't the sole person doing so, which is all I can ask for out of an hour of the show.
What was best about it, though, was the way it brought everybody back together. For a while, the episode fooled me into thinking that the level of connection we saw among the core five at Sterling Cooper & Partners (with Peggy and, later, Stan also knowing what was coming) might trickle out to the rest of the staff. Yes, this was a worst-case scenario for all involved, even if Jim Hobart pitched it as "advertising heaven." But, hey, at least they had the Time & Life building.
Episodes like "Time & Life" are why I watch Mad Men
But no. As that last shot makes clear, nobody is going to be thrilled by this news, even when Don tries to fake excitement over what's coming. It's a shitty deal, and shitty deals don't lead to people feeling excited about what's coming down the pike. They lead to everybody looking for whatever's next.
Unfortunately for a lot of these characters, "whatever's next" is something like McCann. Yeah, Peggy should really only be somewhere like that for three years, tops, but it's an important line to have on her resume. And the partners in the firm are all going to get everything they ever dreamed of, just not the autonomy they actually crave. Meanwhile, only Lou Avery gets what he wants, leaving to create a cartoon series with the studio that made Speed Racer.
The prominence of Lou's lucky break and everybody else being squeezed into a corporate world they want nothing to do with made me ping on something else entirely — the series finale of The Mary Tyler Moore Show.
In many ways, the final season of MTM established the template for how a series should end. The season featured all sorts of "only in a final season!" storytelling gambits, like bumbling Ted Baxter having a brief moment of clarity after a heart attack, Mary going on a date with her boss, Lou, and a big guest appearance from none other than Johnny Carson. The series finale, then, actually dared to suggest an ending to a story nobody realized the show had been telling, by closing down the TV station everybody worked at and scattering the characters to the winds. (Only Ted, like Lou Avery, got what he really wanted.)

Now, of course, the "final season" of a show is supposed to hint at finality in every. Single. Episode. There's really no way a show like Mad Men could have worked like that, but the audience's knowledge of the impending end creates a tension with what's happening on screen. What if this is the last time Roger and Joan hug? What if this is the last time Peggy and Pete ever share a conversation? What if this is the last time we see Trudy? What then?
The beauty of what Mad Men has been doing right under our noses, then, has been in playing both of these approaches off of each other. By playing around with the MTM template, it's been suggesting the contour of what these endings could look like, without actually committing to one. And by using our knowledge of the show's impending end against us, it's caused us to become impatient for some sort of final story about this ad hoc workplace family.
And now, of course, we know that family is going to be ripped apart and tossed aside, just like Mary Richards and her friends. But we get three whole episodes to watch it happen. I can't wait.
Read the recap, and come back later today for more thoughts.
Previous episode's discussion
Next: Dylan on why this episode wasn't big enough.
Star Wars fans are getting increasingly excited about The Force Awakens, due out in December.
So much so, in fact, that some of them are trying to send model X-wings into space in hopes of getting tickets to the premiere.
The BBC brings us the news that Phil St. Pier and Matt Kingsnorth, who run Project Helium Tears — a UK-based effort to use high-altitude weather balloons to photograph Earth from the lower edge of space — recently spent about £1,200 (about $1,820) to send a model X-wing up to roughly 22.3 miles. They attached a GoPro to capture the flight, and are using the footage to ask Force director J.J. Abrams for tickets.
Technically, this altitude isn't quite space (which is generally thought to begin at around 62 miles up), but the footage, paired with John Williams's signature score, is still pretty amazing. At the end of the video, you can see the balloon bursting, dropping the camera and X-wing back to Earth.


On Monday, ahead of the Avengers blitz that's about to sweep the country, Fox and director Bryan Singer decided to release images of Nightcrawler (Kodi Smit-McPhee) from X-Men: Apocalypse into the world:

(Fox)
Yes, Smit-McPhee's Nightcrawler looks a little awkward, more like Artie from Glee than superhero. Part of this is due to the age of the character. Because Apocalypse is set in the '80s, we get to see a much younger Nightcrawler compared with his last cinematic appearance in X2: X-Men United. And he's also much younger than the Nightcrawler we see in the comic books:

Amazing X-Men No. 1. (Marvel)
Nightcrawler is a blue-skinned mutant with the ability to teleport. In the comic books he's the son of Mystique and Azazel, and though both characters appear in First Class, this element of Nightcrawler's background probably will not be included in Apocalypse.
One of the recurring themes with Nightcrawler is the conflict between his appearance and his heroism. He's the antithesis of what a hero is supposed to look like, yet he's charming, lovable, and completely selfless.
Nightcrawler, like Psylocke, is a fan favorite with a flashy power set. But perhaps the most tantalizing prospect of adding Nightcrawler into the mix is Singer's track record with the character. Singer directed X2, in which Alan Cumming played the character, and Singer choreographed an absolutely stunning opening sequence with Nightcrawler's teleportation powers:

(Fox/Marvel)
X-Men: Apocalypse is due in theaters on May 27, 2016.
"High Sparrow," the third episode in season five of HBO's hit series Game of Thrones, allows its characters to begin an evolution that will take them further away from the narratives of the book, but closer to the stories that showrunners David Benioff and D. B. Weiss are developing.
With two episodes of season five concluded, the characters of George R. R. Martin's world are establishing the moral codes that will carry the rest of the season in these six scenes. They're also the moments everyone will be talking about (spoilers ahead).

Jon Snow chops off someone's head! (HBO)
In the last episode, Jon Snow was named the head of the Night's Watch on the Wall. Now he sits at the front of the dining hall, and his word makes the laws for a group of men who were formerly his peers. Though Snow has always been a decent fighter and a good swordsman, he's alienated himself from many of the members by being sympathetic to the wildlings, and by moping around a good deal in season two.
Where the first four seasons were full of Jon Snow trying to battle the wildlings while falling in love with one, season five seems to be a time for Snow to take his life and his will into his own hands. In "High Sparrow" a man questions Jon's authority as commander and refuses to follow his commands. Jon, in response, chops off the man's head despite pleas for mercy. It's a moment reminiscent of Ned Stark's beheading of  a man way back in season one, and it gives him a bit more of a determined persona that could allow him to carry some more interesting plot lines for the rest of the season.

This shaky skeleton is pretty terrifying. (HBO)
In a very brief scene, Cersei is seen talking to Qyburn, the scientist who works on many secret and seemingly important projects for the Kingdom. She comes in to ask him a question, but the focus of the scene seems to be on what Qyburn is hiding beneath a blanket.
As soon as Cersei leaves the room, rattling can be heard beneath the blanket behind Qyburn. It's a moment that has enough mystery to seem like it might be a key piece of information going forward.

Sansa meets her future hubby. (HBO)
Sansa Stark has long been a captive of people more powerful, more manipulative, and more cunning than she is. In the first four seasons, she was used as bait for Joffrey and then as a wife for Tyrion before being left in the care of Littlefinger, who is possibly one of the most manipulative men in Westeros.
In episode two, Sansa had the opportunity to leave her uncle's care for the protection of Lady Brienne of Tarth, but out of allegiance (or stupidity) she chose to stay. In episode three, we realize exactly what Littlefinger has been manipulating his way to this whole season — a match between Sansa Stark and Ramsay Bolton. Sansa is understandably hesitant, because Lord Bolton killed most of her family in the Red Wedding.
But marrying Bolton could give Sansa the agency she's been missing for the past few seasons, and place her in Winterfell, her childhood home, where she could experience all sort of character-developing events.

The high priest of Westeros is shamed. (HBO)
In "High Sparrow," religious zealots called the "sparrows" have taken over King's Landing by the strong-armed will of Cersei Lannister. In this episode, Tommen and Margaery get married, leaving Cersei vulnerable to being shipped away or being manipulated by her (yet again) daughter-in-law.
In an attempt to rearrange the center of power in King's Landing, Cersei befriends the "High Sparrow," and a plan is enacted to make him the head of religion in the seven kingdoms. The sparrows catch the High Septon of Westeros — the high priest of the Faith of the Seven — in a  brothel, and punish him by dragging him out of the brothel and into the street naked. When he begs Cersei for help, she has him locked up.

Arya cannot throw her entire past away. (HBO)
Arya Stark is still at the House of Black and White, as she was in the second episode, and is under strict order to try to become no one. During this episode, we see her sweeping floors and helping with tasks but really being reprimanded for continuing to be Arya Stark instead of a nameless, faceless person.
At the end of her portion of the show, Arya has changed out of her usual clothes and into unremarkable attire. At the edge of a long pier near the House, she drops a bundle of her possessions into the ocean, ridding herself of her past identity. The tiny sword that has been on her person since very early on in season one, though, doesn't get tossed into the ocean. Arya is too attached to it, so she hides the sword in a pile of rocks near the water instead, seemingly so she will be able to retrieve it later.

Tyrion got kidnapped! (HBO)
The episode closes with Tyrion's plot line on the other side of the world in Essos. He has convinced Varys to take him out of the carriage and into the city of Volantis so that he can find booze and a brothel. While there, though, he feels some remorse that makes him unable to fully enjoy himself.
Then, while peeing off the edge of the building, he is kidnapped, this time by  Jorah Mormont, Daenerys’s former adviser. Jorah takes Tyrion away from Varys and loads him into a boat to take him to Dany, his original destination anyway.
Previous episode
Next episode
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by culture writer Kelsey McKinney and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Todd VanDerWerff: We spent much of last week talking about how the characters Game of Thrones and the books it's based on are most invested in are the powerless characters living at the fringes of society. Those characters are best positioned to see how destructive the ruling status quo is to anybody not in power.
But here's a thing that "High Sparrow," one of my favorite Game of Thrones episodes in quite some time, drives home — the loss of the old status quo has also been unquestionably dire for too many of these people. All you need to do is see Theon (now Reek) lurching about at Winterfell to know how much everything has changed — and gotten much worse for many of these characters.
I was also thinking about this because I fell into watching that "Too Many Kings" video (the parody of Too Many Cooks featuring all eleventy hundred characters from this show) a few days ago.

Much of that video uses footage from the show's first season — which I haven't revisited in a while — and I was struck by how much everybody involved in this show has changed over the course of its production. Certainly, the kids have all grown up, but the early days of the show almost seem like some halcyon, bygone era at this point, even if they were mired in the mud.
Theon was someone who tried to overthrow the system he had existed within. Now, he had tremendously good reason to do so. He'd been held prisoner for most of his life. Yes, "being held prisoner" largely involved hanging around Winterfell and growing up among the Stark kids, but he was still a captive. When his father convinced him to take up arms on the side of his kinsmen, it was driven by how little Theon had ever had a place to feel like he was supposed to be.
Now, however, he's been tortured and broken, turned against himself and made into this shambling wreck of a human being. The punishment so outweighs the crime at this point that it could seem a little ridiculous — except that's how punishments tend to work in George R. R. Martin's milieu.
Say what you will about the awfulness of the status quo — and it was awful — but at least it provided a kind of system that kept a lot of people relatively safe from harm. Under the law, there were consequences for actions. After all, one of the first things we see in the series is Ned beheading a Night's Watch deserter. When Jon does roughly the same in this episode, it's because nearly everything is falling apart, and he needs to keep a tenuous grasp on control over the situation.
So even if this season isn't directly adapting A Feast for Crows and A Dance With Dragons, it's at least adapting the spirit of both books. Those two tomes are about searching (at least in a metaphorical sense) for a leader who can restore peace and prosperity to the Seven Kingdoms, and about the chaos that descends over a land in the wake of war.
Many fans of the series despise Feast for Crows for this very reason. In terms of visceral excitement, it contains the lowest number of big "events" of all the books. But I've always liked its willingness to force readers to confront the downside of all of the excitement in the first three books. It's a tour through a land that no longer resembles what it once was.
The TV series can't really do that. It lacks the budget, and I'm guessing the audience wouldn't be terribly patient with a long series of scenes where Brienne stares grimly out at a war-torn countryside, examining what has become of her country. But the show works in nods to this material here and there — and particularly in the case of someone like Theon, who has been ruined by what has become.
Yes, the old system was corrupt, and yes, it needed to be torn down to be replaced with whatever comes next. But any time something is torn down, precautions must be taken. Too few people in the Seven Kingdoms remembered that, and that's brought them to this point.
Read the recap. We'll have more thoughts later in the day.
Previous week's discussion
Next: Kelsey on the true hero, Margaery Tyrell
As "Time and Life," the 11th episode of Mad Men's final season, aired, one thought kept popping up on my Twitter feed: this episode felt like a series finale.
Now, that's not precisely true. There's still so much left hanging in the air when the episode ends, but it gave this fledgling half-season a purpose it's been lacking and a welcome sense of direction.
This episode felt like a series finale
The characters are going to have to fight to preserve what's left of their autonomy now that Sterling Cooper & Partners has been absorbed by McCann Erickson. A last-ditch effort to rebrand SC&P as "Sterling Cooper West" and relocate to California failed. Now everybody is left with an uncertain future.
But there's a good reason this episode felt like a series finale. As scripted by Matthew Weiner and Erin Levy (the team that co-wrote the Emmy-winning third-season finale, "Shut the Door. Have a Seat," which will become important in a bit) and directed by Jared Harris (who once played Lane Pryce on the show), the episode was stuffed with callbacks to the series' past, something that gave it a feeling of circling back to the show's beginnings.
I could make a list dozens deep, but let's talk about 11 of the best ones in brief.
Peggy Olson (Elisabeth Moss) remembers the child she gave up for adoption.
AMC
Peggy's plot in this episode feels in some ways like a remix of every Peggy plot ever, mostly in a good way. She tries to find a new job, only to learn she's pretty much stuck at the one she has. She flirts a bit with Stan and even has a significant conversation with Pete on a couch, just like when they had a child together, one she put up for adoption.
But it's that child who ties all of this together and most directly ties Peggy's story to the show's past. She's tasked with watching tiny children as they wander the office on a casting call, later forced to watch over one girl in particular when the girl's mother isn't on time to pick her daughter up.
And throughout it all, the child Peggy gave up for adoption resonates in every choice she makes, every line of dialogue she has (right down to when she uses the word "abandoned" to describe what the mother did to the young girl). And then it all comes pouring out in a late-night conversation with Stan. Peggy hasn't stopped thinking about her son. She'll just never know what happened to him, and that's how it has to be. She should be free to make mistakes like a man and move on with her life, she says.
"I don't know," she says of her son's whereabouts, "because you're not supposed to know or you can't go on with your life." It's a stunner of a scene, and Elisabeth Moss's performance makes up for how little Peggy's been in this season so far.
After everybody else has left, Don (Jon Hamm) and Roger (John Slattery) are left alone at the bar.
AMC
After the partners of SC&P go to a bar to drown their miseries, the others peel away, one by one, until only Don and Roger are left, getting soused together at the bar, talking about the journey that's brought them all this way.
So much of the show has boiled down to these two simply sitting together and talking about what to do next. It was only appropriate that so momentous an episode would do just that. In any final season of television, you want the sense that some things will go on as they always have, and Don and Roger's friendship being a constant of both their lives seems a great way to do that.
Jim Hobart (H. Richard Greene) tells the partners they've died and gone to advertising heaven.
AMC
For the first several seasons of the show, Don Draper's pitches were not to be trifled with. They were masterpieces of the form.
Starting in season six, however, these pitches begin to break down. First, Don himself screws up by talking about his past in too great of detail (i.e., mentioning the brothel he grew up in) in a pitch for Hershey's chocolate. Then his pitches were delivered by the sweaty, desperate Freddy Rumsen, while Don was on leave from SC&P. Finally, in the midseason finale, "Waterloo," Don granted the floor to Peggy, who delivered a terrific pitch.
In "Time & Life," however, Don doesn't even get more than a sentence of his pitch for Sterling Cooper West out of his mouth. McCann head Jim Hobart tells him the deal is already done. The partners are going to have great jobs and a cushy life. They just have to give up their freedom.
McCann has always been Mad Men's version of hell, a stuffy agency that's too big and squashes smaller agencies as a matter of course. That would make Hobart the show's devil, then, and when he says the characters have died and gone to advertising heaven, well ... I wouldn't take him at his word.
Everybody's worried they're going to lose their jobs, so they don't even stop to hear what Don has to say.
AMC
The episode ends with an "all hands on deck" meeting. The show has had a number of these throughout the years, with the principal characters announcing to the minor players good news and bad, but always with the sense that everybody's in it together.
This meeting ends quite differently. When Don announces the news, a cacophony of voices breaks out. Nobody wants to hear what the partners have to say, except Harry Crane, who insists this is good news. (Any time Harry is insisting anything, it's time to run in the opposite direction.) "We didn't do this!" Roger cries out over the din of everybody's voice, but it doesn't matter. Nobody cares who did this. They only care if they get to keep their jobs.
Notice, again, that Don doesn't get his pitch out before he's interrupted. His power is losing its sway completely.
The SC&P partners toast the memory of Bert Cooper.
AMC
One gets the sense that Bert Cooper might not have let this happen somehow. He often had some sly trick up his sleeve.
But Bert Cooper's dead. All that's left is to remember him through a mention of his name and a toast to his memory.
Roger and Joan are the first to hear the bad news over the phone.
AMC
Another reason this episode feels so much like circling back to the past is that the characters keep interacting with each other in ways that will be familiar from the previous 88 episodes. It's a welcome change from this half-season's first three episodes, which featured the characters seeming increasingly disconnected from each other.
There's perhaps no better evidence of this shift than the scenes between Roger and Joan, two characters whose flirtatious relationship has been a backbone of the show all along. Now that the two of them are equal partners in the firm, the show has eased off on the sense that they might end up together, but it's fitting that they're the ones to get the bad news from McCann while leaning together to listen in to the same phone call.
It's also fitting that the episode gives us a long, lasting hug between the two when she leaves to be with her new paramour, Richard. Their lives go on, but they're still important to each other. We have three episodes left, but if that hug is the last time Roger and Joan ever interact, that might be enough for me.
Pete (Vincent Kartheiser) and Joan share a car ride home.
AMC
At one point, the characters are told that going back to McCann will be "going home." And there's something true about that. McCann purchased the firm that owned Sterling Cooper back in season three, which necessitated the characters breaking off from the firm that had been their home for the first three seasons to form their own. That episode, "Shut the Door. Have a Seat," is deliberately mirrored in this episode numerous times (including with something we're about to discuss).
But Don also mentions the old Sterling Cooper to Ted when Ted says he's never worked at a firm as big as McCann, and there's a moment in Joan's car ride with Pete where we realize that going back home isn't even slightly welcome for some of these characters. Joan has broken free of her old constraints at SC&P. She's become a partner, and she's formed relationships that have brought in business.
But when Hobart mentions the brands the partners can work with at McCann (including the temptation of a whispered "Coca-Cola!" for Don), he doesn't mention anything to Joan. Going backward isn't welcome for a woman who's come so far. But if we know Joan, we know she won't fade away quietly.
Ken (Aaron Staton) attends a clandestine meeting with Roger and Pete.
AMC
I keep mentioning "Shut the Door" for a good reason. The structure of this episode (with the characters sneaking around to pull together a plan to save their firm) is very nearly identical.
Until this moment, at least. Ken Cosgrove, now working at Dow Chemical, meets Pete and Roger for a clandestine meeting that recalls Don successfully wooing Peggy to join his new firm in that previous episode. But this meeting ends very differently. Ken says no, and it presages what's about to happen. The world in which these characters get their way at every turn is rapidly coming to a close.
Trudy (Alison Brie) and Pete meet with the head of a school that rejected their daughter.
AMC
Of all of the failed marriages on Mad Men, the last one I expected the show to suggest might have a prayer of being renewed is the one between Pete and Trudy Campbell.
Now, I don't really expect these two to get back together, but seeing them working together toward the common goal of getting their daughter into a school that had rejected her was a real kick, reminding us of just how great the two could be in the earlier days of the show.
The show has always suggested that Pete is growing, in some ways, into who Don was at the start of the show. But where Don's marriage to Betty will never be resurrected, Pete and Trudy have a prayer, provided they can find a way to forgive each other. And even if they can't, it's fun to watch them work together.
The five partners confront what's happened at the McCann Erickson offices.
AMC
The above shot, by Harris, is a spectacular mirroring of another famous shot from the fifth-season finale, "The Phantom."
The partners look at their new office space in an earlier episode.
AMC
There, the partners look toward a new future, after an unquestioned success. In the first shot, though, they (with Ted taking the place of the departed Bert) look toward their new, horrifying present. Everything is unraveling. Which brings me to...
The word "fuck" has been said in each of the last three episodes, something that rarely happens on basic cable. But it all plays into something Weiner has talked about frequently — how Mad Men traces the gradual coarsening of the American culture. It starts small, with men no longer removing their hats around women, and it grows to a point where people are openly shouting the word "fuck" in public, including teenagers.
Weiner isn't saying this is a bad thing or a good thing. He's just saying it happened, and it carried with it a certain weight for those who had lived in the old world and struggled to adjust to the new. That, in micro, is what the entire journey of this show has been, and now that the apocalypse is upon our characters and they are being dragged down to hell, it will be interesting to see how they escape — if they even can.

The party's over on Mad Men. (AMC)
Please join me again in comments for discussion of this episode and other culture-related topics! They're already open for you to chat among yourselves, but I'll be dropping by at 12 pm Eastern to answer your questions.
Mad Men airs Sundays at 10 pm Eastern on AMC. Previous seasons are available on Netflix.
Previous episode
Next episode
Spoilers for the newest episode of Game of Thrones are below.
Many scenes from "High Sparrow," the third episode of the fifth season of Game of Thrones, will be familiar to readers of George R. R. Martin's books.
Arya Stark, now serving at the House of Black and White, is ordered to dispose of all her possessions so she can become "no one" — but she can't part with her sword, and instead hides it. Jon Snow, facing his first major test as Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, executes one of his subordinates for disobedience. Tyrion Lannister decides to visit a brothel — and ends up being kidnapped by Dany's ex-adviser, Jorah Mormont.
But overall, the changes are beginning to pile up. It's now clear that some key characters in the books are nowhere to be found — while others are very different, with big implications for the plot.
In one storyline in particular, Game of Thrones showrunners David Benioff and D. B. Weiss begin what appears to be the biggest divergence they've ever attempted — scooping several major characters off their separate book paths to dramatically place them all together.
Here's the big one: Littlefinger arranges for Sansa Stark to return home to Winterfell — via a marriage alliance with the sadistic Ramsay Bolton. The Boltons know this might anger the Lannisters, but they want to solidify their hold on the North, since many of its inhabitants are still loyal to the deposed Starks. What Littlefinger hopes to achieve is not so clear, though he suggests that the marriage will put Sansa in a position where she can stop being a "bystander" and instead finally avenge her family. But he mentions that he hasn't heard very much about Ramsay — a worrying sign that he has no idea how much danger he's put Sansa in.
This is a huge shocker for book readers, because in the published material so far, Sansa and Littlefinger go nowhere near the North. Instead, they remain hiding out in the kingdom of the Vale, consolidating power there for a later move. Littlefinger's plot is, instead, for Sansa to marry "Harry the Heir," a distant cousin who would inherit the Vale if the young and sickly "Sweetrobin" Arryn dies young. But there's been no mention of Harry in the show so far.
There’s lots of memorable material at Winterfell in the fifth book, A Dance With Dragons, but it’s told entirely through the eyes of Reek (perhaps better known as Theon Greyjoy). The Boltons do arrange a Stark marriage for Ramsay, and Littlefinger facilitates it by supplying the bride — but everyone involved understands the girl is an impostor, an old friend of Sansa's captured and forced to pretend to be Arya Stark. This plot line is particularly dark and disturbing in the books — and adding Sansa to it could dramatically change the arc of one of the story's central characters.
Brienne of Tarth and Podrick Payne spend the most recent books unsuccessfully searching for Sansa in the Riverlands, until they encounter the mysterious Lady Stoneheart. But this plot line appears to have been dropped from the show. Instead, the questing pair follow Sansa north, determined to help her even if she's already turned them away.
Overall, the show appears to be consolidating three completely separate plotlines — Sansa's, Theon's, and Brienne's — into one. This is probably in part for efficiency, so story time won't have to be spent on three disparate plot lines, and so three separate supporting casts won't have to be paid. It's also probably to add more drama — Sansa and Brienne in particular don't have too much plot-driven material in books four and five, so this gives them both something exciting to do.
And there could be more consolidation to come — Brienne's speech about Stannis in this episode may be a hint that she'll be encountering him, too, even though no such meeting occurs on the page.
King Tommen Baratheon marries Margaery Tyrell in this episode — and the new couple enjoys quite an active wedding night, the aftermath of which we witness. In the books, though, Tommen is only 8. That doesn't stop his family from  marrying him off to Margaery, but there is, thankfully, no consummation. Book Tommen remains an innocent boy who loves his kittens and doesn't like eating beets.
Show Tommen's age is kept ambiguous, but actor Dean-Charles Chapman is 17. Chapman joined the show in season four, replacing the original actor playing Tommen, Callum Wharry, who looked much younger.
In addition to making Tommen older, the show has made Margaery a much more formidable political player and central character. Here, she has her new husband kindly "suggest" to his mother, Cersei, that she leave town. Cersei correctly perceives this as an attempt to marginalize her.
By contrast, as book four of the series, A Feast for Crows, opens, Cersei is unquestionably in charge of the capital. With Tommen much younger and more compliant, and Margaery less of a rival, Cersei is in no danger of being sent away. A Feast for Crows instead showcases what Cersei does when she can rule without any restraints on her authority. She still fears Margaery will steal her son away from her — and that she is the younger queen fated to replace her from the old witch's prophecy — but this fear comes off as much more paranoid on the page.
The High Septon has a much less humiliating downfall in the books. (HBO)
As in A Feast for Crows, religious zealots known as the "sparrows" have come to King's Landing. In this episode, they catch the High Septon of Westeros — the high priest of the Faith of the Seven — in a rather blasphemous brothel visit, and they punish him. When the priest goes to Cersei asking for help, she instead locks him up — apparently in hopes of making an alliance with the fundamentalists' leader, the High Sparrow (Jonathan Pryce), to help shore up her precarious political position.
In the books, the High Sparrow's rise to power is inadvertently, not deliberately, caused by Cersei. The old High Septon isn't caught in a brothel, or anything like that. Instead, Cersei grows paranoid simply because he was appointed by Tyrion back when he was Hand. So she has a henchman murder him, smothering him with a pillow in a scheme that's hidden even from the reader until near the end of book four. The High Sparrow ends up being chosen as his replacement, and Cersei has to deal with him afterward.
Finally, the episode closes with Tyrion arriving in the city of Volantis, seeing a red priest preaching to slaves that Dany is the savior, and visiting a brothel — where he's then unexpectedly kidnapped by Dany’s former adviser, Jorah Mormont. Essentially, this is what happens in the books, though locations and events have been condensed somewhat.
But Tyrion's plot line has advanced far enough that it looks like it's now safe to say that two major characters from its book version appear to be absent. In A Dance With Dragons, Tyrion travels east not with Varys, but with a mysterious small group led by Griff, a sellsword. Griff's supposed son, "Young Griff," has a hidden identity that's one of the biggest twists of the fifth book (click here if you want spoilers).
Yet on the show, Griff and Young Griff are nowhere to be found. There's been no information on these characters being cast and no sign that they'll be included at all. It remains possible that they could turn up in a very different manner, but for now, it looks like both have been left on the cutting room floor.
Previous episode


(Mattel)

DuVernay isn't just any director — she's the first black woman to direct a film nominated for a Best Picture Oscar. And Selma, which depicted Martin Luther King's 1965 marches from Selma, Alabama, to Montgomery, to fight for voting rights, is one of the most celebrated films about the African-American experience in recent memory. (Paramount Pictures announced this week that it will provide a complimentary copy of the movie to every high school in the country.)
DuVernay is also the founder of African-American Film Festival Releasing Movement, a program designed to provide opportunities to a diverse set of filmmakers who are underrepresented in the industry.
So DuVernay's Barbie (which has her skin tone and signature hair style, and a face that appears to be modeled after her own features) is being embraced by black parents who notoriously struggle to find dolls that look like their daughters. And along with the rest in the series, the doll is being celebrated by people of all races who reject the sexist messages sent by many of the toys that are created for girls — that the most important things in life are beauty and fashion versus achievement and service.
And you thought the Apple Watch was hot? Yeah this new Ava DuVernay Barbie doll is definitely this season's must... http://t.co/13ZgQ9VTFz

I never had Barbies growing up bc my mom refused to buy white dolls for me. She would have bought me an #AvaBarbie. Well done, @Mattel.

Ava DuVernay has her own Barbie. I never thought I'd buy dolls for my future-daughter but....this is different.

Sure, there are things to nitpick: the dolls don't appear to escape the old and often-criticized ridiculous Barbie body proportions, and there's the question of why they're called "Sheroes" when, well, we already have a word for heroes who happen to be women.
More disappointing to many fans is that the Barbies are not actually available for sale to the public. As the Huffington Post reports, single copies of each doll will be auctioned off to charities chosen by the women they honor.
But that's hardly putting a damper on the excitement of those who are gushing over how a doll in the image of a groundbreaking and philanthropic African-American woman would have improved their own childhoods — including DuVernay herself, who tweeted:
I always played w/ my sisters Jina + Tera. For hours making stories + scenarios. So this is special. Thanks, @Barbie. pic.twitter.com/aL8KGBx3XF

Delta Rae's sophomore album comes with a heavy dose of fear.
After the group's smash single "Bottom of the River" took off in 2011, Delta Rae's pop anthems have taken on a sharper edge.
"Am I always on the edge of quitting / of giving up and just forgetting," goes the first line on After It All, the band's sophomore album. Its tone questions. It lurks, sadder than anything on their debut album, Carry the Fire.
And it's all real.
"I wonder if it's too subtle," Ian Hölljes, one member of the six-person band, told me of starting the album with a line that means more to him than its delicate presentation. The path to a second album hasn't been a smooth one for Delta Rae. When I spoke to the band members in March, they were excited — but also terrified.
"We are more mature, and we are standing up and saying, 'This is who we are,'" Eric Hölljes, Ian's brother and one of the group's main songwriters, told me. "The dust has settled now."
A few minutes later, he backtracks, "Some of the songs on the album no one had heard before, so I just hope people get where we're coming from." All six members of Delta Rae wanted me to know how passionate they were about After It All, and how terrified that feeling made them about its reception.
After all, there's no guaranteeing another big hit. And Delta Rae want to keep making them.

Ian Hölljes plays the guitar at a Delta Rae concert.
The band, named after a story told by the Hölljes siblings' mother, features four vocalists. Ian (also on guitar) and Eric (also on guitar and piano) write most of the songs and are joined on vocals by sister Brittany Hölljes. When we meet, the three, all in black, sit by each other, and continuously interrupt one another to make sure everything is covered.
Delta Rae formed in 2009 with only four members — the Hölljes siblings, plus Elizabeth Hopkins, who became the group's fourth voice. The band added Mike McKee on percussion and Grant Emerson on bass in 2010. By the time "Bottom of the River" exploded, they were in their current form.

"Bottom of the River's" haunting, orchestral quality echoes through the sound of chains clashing and drums pounding. The video, which has more than 3.5 million views on YouTube, tells the story of a witch hunt and features Brittany as its lead.
"That was a time when we just couldn't breathe," Brittany told me. "We were just saying yes to things, and experiences were happening, and it was great." In less than a year, the band went from a group of friends making North Carolina folk rock to nationwide fame.
"We love music on the radio, and it's a hard line to navigate between getting a big sound and keeping the soul of the music feeling real," Ian told me. He describes Delta Rae's music as Americana, combining all of the things he loves about music: folklore, lyrical depth, imagery, and a strong vocal quality.
Delta Rae don't want to be a single sound. they want to be a band.
Delta Rae's success stems from how they stack those four singers. Where a vocalist like Sam Smith might record his own voice four times in the studio, then layer them on the recording, Delta Rae don't want to be a single sound. They want to be a band.
"It's hard for me to name great American bands right now that are really relevant," Ian told me. "Most great bands haven't had a radio hit in the last four or five years. I would like to find the kernel of American folklore and mystique that informs so much of what the UK is bringing to the table right now."

Elizabeth Hopkins belts out a solo in New York. (Adela Loconte/Getty)
Like any band, Delta Rae face a familiar challenge on their second album. It needs to live up to hype, mature artistically, and try to keep fans satisfied. The sophomore slump doesn't hit every band, and Delta Rae hope to avoid it.
Some members of the band have tried to take better care of themselves —Brittany is training her voice, and Grant found a stable home. "We've all grown since the last album, musically and personally. There are some weird sounds on this album." Mike McKee to me. "I never went to music school, so being able to hone in this couple of years has been great."
After It All's cleaner production and stronger musical backing for the vocalists underline a recklessness and a restlessness that permeates every song on the album. When the chorus of "Scared," the fifth song on the album, hits, it feels far bigger than any personal experience: "When I'm scared / To be on our own / When the thrill is gone / And I'm scared." Though this is a song about love, it's also a song meant to speak to a generation.
"Our first record had some really personal, autobiographical songs," Brittany told me. "I feel like with this album we're talking about bigger things and potentially more controversial things, which actually feels a little more vulnerable now."

Eric Hölljes plays piano at a concert in New York. (Adela Loconte/Getty)
When the band played live at Washington, DC's 9:30 Club in April, the song's howling ending surrounded Eric's vocals, the rest of the band members turning to face him. A reverent silence moved through the crowd for a long moment.
The meat of the album comes after "Scared," when the songs slow down and the emotion ramps up, drawing more on folklore and fear than pop sounds. Ian told me the first version of the album was too pop, which scared the band. So the members spent time in Raleigh, North Carolina, trying to get back to what they believe makes them great.
"When you get into the second album cycle, the world around you hushes yourself so you can think." Brittany told me.
And Delta Rae have thought a lot about what they want to be in the past two years. Some of the members have bought houses. Some have moved across the country. All of them say they feel more like themselves now than they did three years ago.
"We still are growing up, but there's a lot more of a feeling of adventure on this album," Hopkins told me. Adventure might be just what Delta Rae needs.
Bruce Jenner, 1970s Olympian and star of Keeping Up With the Kardashians, told ABC News's Diane Sawyer, "I'm a woman." But Sawyer continued referring to Jenner as "he," which many on social media saw as an act of misgendering.
Sawyer explained that Jenner, who identifies as a woman but was designated male at birth, asked to be referred to with male pronouns for the time being, so she would respect Jenner's wishes. Indeed, LGBT advocacy group GLAAD explained in a statement said this is what people should do:
At this time, Bruce Jenner has not requested that a new name or pronoun be used, therefore we are respecting his wishes and will continue to refer to Jenner by his current name and with male pronouns. Some transgender people prefer to change their name and/or pronoun quickly. Other transgender people may take more time to decide what name and/or pronoun feels right to them. To be respectful, use the name and/or pronoun requested by the individual.
This is standard advice for referring to people's gender identity: respect their wishes. If there's any reasonable uncertainty, GLAAD says the best thing to do is directly ask what someone's gender identity is. Although it can be awkward for both parties, it's much better than the problems that can arise from not asking and making an assumption. And there's a good chance transgender people may be used to the question — and might even appreciate it, because it shows you don't want to misgender them.
Misgendering is seen as an insult within LGBTQ communities because it characterizes people in a way they don't relate to. What's worse, some opponents of LGBTQ rights purposely misgender people to show their disapproval of identifying or expressing gender in a way that doesn't heed traditional social standards. These subtle acts are viewed by many LGBTQ people as microaggressions, which, while not always overtly or purposely insulting, can act as a constant reminder to people that large segments of the population don't understand or approve of their personal identity.



"IMAGINE GOING THROUGH LIFE EVERY DAY AND HAVING SO MANY OF YOUR INTERACTIONS INVOLVE SOMEBODY TRYING TO GIVE YOU A HUG AND STEPPING ON YOUR FOOT"



"Imagine going through life every day and having so many of your interactions involve somebody trying to give you a hug and stepping on your foot while doing it," Emily Prince, a 31-year-old trans woman in Alexandria, Virginia, previously said. "And then when you ask them to step off your foot, no matter how polite you are about it, they respond with, 'Oh, excuse me, I was just trying to give you a hug.'"
Sometimes the problem is magnified by limitations in the English language, which relies heavily on gendered pronouns. LGBTQ communities have tried to propose various gender-neutral pronouns, but none have caught on. Some people and organizations, including Vox, might use "they" instead of "he" or "she" as a gender-neutral singular pronoun.
The lack of a widely accepted gender-neutral pronoun makes it difficult for even the most well-meaning person to correctly address someone without running the risk of misgendering them. That's one of the reasons it's typically better to directly ask about a person's gender identity if there's any reasonable uncertainty.
For more information, read 9 questions about gender identity and being transgender you were too embarrassed to ask.


Bruce Jenner came out as a transgender woman to ABC News's Diane Sawyer in an interview aired Friday, April 24 — and Jenner, who identifies as a woman but was designated male at birth, used the interview to debunk the common misconception that gender identity and sexual orientation are linked.
"It's apples and oranges," Jenner, known as a 1970s Olympian and star on Keeping Up With the Kardashians, said. "There's two different things here. Sexuality is who you personally are attracted to — who turns you on — male or female. But gender identity has to do with who you are as a person and your soul, and who you identify with inside, okay?"
This is a very common misconception. But a transgender person can identify as a woman, even though she was assigned male at birth, and be gay (attracted to other women), straight (attracted to men), bisexual, asexual (sexually attracted to no one), or attracted to a traditionally undefined gender. Trans men, gender nonconforming people, and genderqueer people can also be sexually attracted to men, women, both, no one, or another preference.
Mara Keisling, executive director of the National Center for Transgender Equality, previously acknowledged that this concept can be difficult to explain. "If somebody was living as a man dating women, and now they're living as a woman dating women, what does that mean? They were straight; now they're gay," Keisling, who's a 55-year-old trans woman in Washington, DC, said. "But did their sexual orientation change, or were they always attracted to women?"
This infographic, put together by Trans Student Educational Resources, helps break through some of that confusion by showing how a person's gender identity and expression fall outside characteristics like sexual orientation and sex assigned at birth:
Trans Student Educational Resources
For more information, read 9 questions about gender identity and being transgender you were too embarrassed to ask.



Something big happened on Grey's Anatomy Thursday, April 23 — something we'll talk about at the end of this article, so as not to spoil everybody.
But it also set the internet to asking a popular question, one that comes up every time something big happens on Grey's: is that show still on the air?!
On the one hand, obviously, yes. Something big just happened. The show wasn't dragged out of retirement for a one-off plot twist.
But on the other hand, this says something about how we think about TV shows that once had big buzz but ultimately faded from the spotlight.
Though the show is not what it once was, it's still hugely successful. As recently as a couple of years ago, it was still the top drama on TV among the younger viewers advertisers cater to, and the show that surpassed it was Scandal, another series from the creator of Grey's, Shonda Rhimes. (Both shows have since been surpassed by Fox's mega-hit Empire.)
In its 11th season, Grey's has fallen a long way from the days when it would often pull in 25 million viewers or more. This season, it's averaging a little over 8 million viewers. But in an increasingly fragmented TV landscape, that's still a solid number.
The viewers the show draws skew young
And the viewers the show draws skew young. The show is averaging a little under a 2.4 in the 18- to 49-year-old demographic that advertisers covet. That's not good enough for the biggest show on TV — or even on the biggest show on Thursday night — but it's still a very good number. (It's more complicated than this, but at its most basic level, that 2.4 represents the percentage of viewers between the ages of 18 and 49 who watched Grey's Anatomy in a given week.)
And the show spikes in weeks when something big happens. A good case in point is this latest episode, which drew a 2.8 in the 18- to 49-year-old demographic, with just under 9.5 million viewers tuning in.
Grey's isn't a massive hit anymore, but it's done something few shows that got as big as it did have been able to — it maintained a loyal, consistent audience once it stopped being a massive hit. That's incredibly difficult, and it speaks to two things.
This might seem like an obvious explanation, since Rhimes is one of the most successful producers in television history. But it still bears repeating.
Rhimes has a tremendously distinctive voice, one that continues to shine through on Grey's even after 11 seasons of television. The series has subtly shifted in many ways to work better for the long haul (as you'll see below), but the most consistent thing about it has been that the tone of the series as established by Rhimes in its first season has stayed remarkably consistent. If you tune in to Grey's, you know what you're going to get. That's a good thing if you're a fan of the show — or of ABC.
One of the reasons people so often say "That's still on?!" of Grey's is because it was such a big hit with the media, as well as with viewers. It was ubiquitous on magazine covers and at award shows for a while, but it eventually faded from the public consciousness, simply because that's how these things work. The buzz is there for a bit, and then it's gone. (Also, many of the show's contemporaries, like Lost, House, and Desperate Housewives, all of which launched in the same TV season, have long since left the air, which contributes to the feeling that the show is of a bygone era.)
Grey's went from being primarily a soap to primarily a medical drama
But that's because what made Grey's buzzy — its soapy plot twists — are something the show has increasingly deemphasized over the years, in favor of becoming a more sustainable series. In short, Grey's went from being primarily a soap to primarily a medical drama. It still has soapy elements — see: this latest plot twist — but it's focused much more on being a traditional workplace drama about a bunch of people who work in a hospital. And that's easier to make work for more than a decade, as a look at ER would suggest.
Dr. Derek Shepherd (Patrick Dempsey) died! Derek was the primary love interest and eventual husband of series protagonist Meredith Grey (Ellen Pompeo). You may know him better as "McDreamy," one of the things from the show that took on a life of its own.
He died after his car was hit by a truck. (Earlier in the episode, he got to be a heroic doctor one last time by saving some victims of a car accident.) After he fell into a vegetative state, Meredith was forced to pull the plug on his life support.
The core ensemble is remarkably unchanged for a show this age
Derek was never the show's best character, but he was a reliable love interest for its protagonist — and notably, he was often written to be as shallow and ill-defined as the female love interests in many male-driven stories, particularly in the early seasons. That gave Grey's an ever-so-slightly transgressive feel that helped it seem new and different in its early going.
Dempsey has been talking about leaving the show for a while, so what happened was no huge surprise. Both he and Rhimes spoke about the departure.
Dempsey's departure will likely contribute to the sense that the show goes through lots and lots of characters, but that's not really true. The core ensemble is remarkably unchanged for a show this age.
Of the nine actors who were series regulars in season one, five were still regulars as of last night, when Dempsey checked out, and six were still regulars as of season 10, when Sandra Oh left the show. That's a surprisingly robust retention rate, to say nothing of all the later additions who've stuck around. For comparison's sake, just three original cast members of C.S.I. made it all the way to season 11.
Grey's has always had a huge supporting cast of characters that come and go, and the first three of its original stars to leave the series — Isaiah Washington, T. R. Knight, and Katherine Heigl — all left in very dramatic fashion, which contributed to the sense that Grey's churns through actors.
Correction: This article originally said ABC launched Desperate Housewives, Lost, and House the same season as Grey's Anatomy. House was on Fox.
In recent years, more and more TV and film reviews have tackled issues of diversity and representation. If a show or movie is about yet another rich, straight, white male protagonist, for many critics — including me — that story has something to prove to convince viewers to invest their time in it.
Maybe this is unfair. Plenty of people would argue a story should stand on its own, based on its own intrinsic qualities, regardless of whether it crosses hurdles of representation.
Storytelling is often the biggest problem with the default white male protagonist
But I would say that storytelling is often the biggest problem with the default white male protagonist. Too often, that storytelling is just lazy. As evidence, I'll point to Showtime's Happyish, a show that perfectly exemplifies why this trope is so very tiring.
There are a handful of things to recommend in this new comedy. (You can watch the first episode here. The show airs Sundays on Showtime at 10:30 pm Eastern.)

Rating
Steve Coogan and Kathryn Hahn are frequently very good as the central two characters, Thom and Lee Payne. The show's first episode starts with an elliptical editing style that ends seemingly normal scenes with quick fades to black, suggesting endings in the middle of domestic bliss. And the show presents Thom and Lee's marriage as fundamentally sound. (Happyish has trouble making this interesting, but Coogan and Hahn are good enough to carry it.)

But Happyish, like so many other shows of its ilk, confuses mentioning weighty, philosophical topics with actually discussing or understanding them. Creator Shalom Auslander, a novelist, wants to bring a short-story sensibility to TV. That could work. Many of the best shows embrace the power of a terrific episode, as opposed to a larger serialized story.
But Auslander's story proceeds as if he's the guy at the party who smirks and says he doesn't even own a television. The show counts being transgressive — like Thom having sex with one of the Keebler elves in a dream — as being insightful, when it's really just fumbling around on the keyboard, searching for the right buttons to push.
And worst of all, it's so, so derivative.

Kathryn Hahn also stars in Happyish. (Showtime)
The show acts as if the idea of Thom suddenly saying what he's thinking and speaking truth to power — with numerous references to great thinkers of the past — is going to be inherently interesting. The show acts as if there's never been a series made about a successful man having a midlife crisis when recent TV history has been built off of that model — except Tony Soprano was a mobster, and his midlife crisis involved the fact that his morality was utterly unhinged.
But the life Happyish proclaims as normal — that of the rich, comfortable, mildly unhappy white dude — is one lived by a very small swath of the population.

"Look at this happy American family. Who can't relate to that?" ask our nation's TV executives. (Showtime)
The weird thing about Happyish is that Showtime battled to keep it going. The series' original star, Philip Seymour Hoffman, died after completing only the pilot. In many circumstances, the network would have stopped production on the show, but Showtime proceeded apace.
At least with Hoffman, Happyish would have been the first TV series starring the Oscar winner. With Coogan, it's just a show about the average American guy, now played by a Brit, seasoned with stuff you've seen a million times before.
But there's one big reason the executives Showtime fought for this show: at heart, it's about them.
At heart, Happyish is about TV executives
Yeah, Thom is an ad man, but everything about him marks him as belonging to the same demographic as most TV executives — who keep greenlighting shows about men like Thom because they recognize themselves in him.
Thom worries about attracting youthful viewers with his ads. He longs for the old days of his industry, while simultaneously wishing he could stop peddling trash and do something authentic. He spends a lot of time ranting about how online culture and social media are ruining everything, while not really seeming to understand them.
In an age when Hollywood's corporate gatekeepers are waking up to the idea that there are people other than themselves worth telling stories about, it's depressing to have a show like this slowly shuffle out to center stage to take bows it hasn't remotely begun to earn.
Let's contrast Happyish with another new show, the CW's daffily brilliant telenovela Jane the Virgin. Jane is by no stretch of the imagination a perfect show, but it has something Happyish lacks — actual stakes.
The women of its central Latina family have to worry about how to make ends meet, the compromise of their religious devotion, and deportation. Its protagonist will soon be a single mother. These are stories TV has rarely told before, stories with dramatic complications that keep me tuning in.
By contrast, Happyish's stakes are, by and large, borrowed from Mad Men (a series it takes a dig at in the pilot), and it suffers for that. That it dares to sneer at a series that actually made the story of a successful man feeling slightly unhappy into compelling drama for seven seasons is rich.
Rob Reiner guest stars in an episode. (I just wanted to use a picture of Rob Reiner.) (Showtime)
Even if everything else about the show were perfect (it's not), the show would be playing in such well-trodden territory that it would have no real way to stand out, short of faux-edgy content disguising the emptiness at its core.
When I say that TV needs to get better about diverse representation, I'm not saying stories about rich, straight white men need to stop being told or that they never have value. I wouldn't want to be robbed of Mad Men or The Americans or Hannibal. What I mean is that TV and movie stories have been told from that default point of view for so long now that it feels like a breath of fresh air when the perspective shifts.
Happyish isn't bad because it's about a white guy. It's bad because it's bad. But the assumptions that led to its existence have too often let lazy television like this slide onto the air. The least we can do is question those assumptions.
Happyish airs Sundays on Showtime at 10:30 pm Eastern.
After the recent release of the Batman v. Superman: Dawn of Justice trailer, the common refrain was that the material might be too dark for Superman. Some of that is the hangover from Man of Steel, the 2013 Superman reboot that took its gloomy color palette inspiration from Christopher Nolan's Batman flicks. And it's part of a larger trend (see: the X-Men franchise) where the bright colors of superhero comic books have been muted to make the live-action movie more "real."
While that works for certain characters, grayscaling Superman seems unnatural. He's a bright character who represents hope, courage, and kindness. And perhaps because that comes off a bit cheesy or corny, there's a preoccupation with giving him grit and darkness.
The team at Videolab wanted to see what would happen if you restored color to the dark, grim world of Man of Steel. They put blue back into the sky and crimson into the hero's cape. And what they found was that adding color and brightness back to Superman actually looks … like Superman should look.
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by culture writer Kelsey McKinney and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Andrew Prokop: Todd, you’re absolutely right that Game of Thrones is most interested in the "cripples, bastards, and broken things" of Westeros. But I’d argue that both the show and Martin's book series are at their best when those powerless characters actually obtain some power of their own — and that that's what everything is building toward.
A book reader's perspective might be helpful here at simplifying this sprawling story. Six point-of-view characters from Martin's first book — Daenerys Targaryen, Tyrion Lannister, Jon Snow, Sansa Stark, Arya Stark, and Bran Stark — are still around at this point.
While other characters are surely also important, these are the ones who seem to me to be at the heart of the story. And they're divided into two groups — those who've already come from humble beginnings to obtain great power, and those who soon will. But for all six, the experiences they had when they were helpless will shape their choices going forward.
The ones who've already made this transition are Daenerys Targaryen and, as this episode makes clear, Jon Snow. We started following Dany when she was in exile. She was an abused younger sister who was soon unwillingly sold as the bride to a terrifying warlord. Eventually she discovered her inner strength — and luckily happened to hatch three dragons — and became a leader, a conqueror, a liberator, and now a queen ruling over a city. But the experiences she had when she was powerless shaped her to be horrified when she encountered slavery — and motivated her to fight to end it. Indeed, she is so powerful at this point that her biggest struggle may be to remember what it was like to be weak.
I expect these pawns will reach the other end of the chessboard
Meanwhile, now that Jon Snow's officially in charge of the Night's Watch, he'll also attempt to apply what he learned when he was more humble. The full season he spent with the wildlings wasn't just filler — it was crucial character development, to rearrange his sympathies and to prepare him for the tough choices that he has to make now. As Jon's electoral rival Alliser Thorne reminds us this week, the Night's Watch views the "free folk" as foes. Fending off an attack from the wildlings was the easy part — brokering a peace between them and the Watch, to better prepare for the threat of the white walkers, will prove a more troublesome task.
Tyrion Lannister had a taste of power already, having spent season two as the Hand of the King, as he reminisces about to Varys this week. He lost it, but now seems headed for influence again at Dany's side. "You were quite good ... a man of talent," Varys says. But it's already cost him quite a lot — Tyrion says he "liked" power too much to leave King's Landing with his lover Shae, which may have been his one chance at happiness. Now Tyrion's a drunken wreck barely consuming any "solid food." What will he have learned, if anything, when he has to rule again?
The other remaining point-of-view characters are the three young Stark siblings — Sansa, Arya, and Bran (sorry, Rickon). After having spent the past three years or so imprisoned or on the run, these characters are all now learning skills that will let them be hugely influential later in the story — though not all in the traditionally political realm.
Sansa, formerly a naive young girl and a prisoner of Joffrey, has now been learning the art of manipulation from Littlefinger. She's grown savvier, stopped all the crying, changed her wardrobe, and become a remarkably skilled liar. What I wonder, though, is whether Littlefinger's complete lack of ethics will rub off on her, too.
Arya has concluded her endless wanderings around Westeros to head east and has now been accepted as a student of Jaqen H'ghar, a Faceless Man. Exactly what she'll learn from him isn't clear yet, but it will surely make her even more deadly — and more of a threat to the people on her infamous list, those who've wronged her and her family. But will Arya find anything to live for other than vengeance?
Bran, meanwhile, reached the cave of the old wizard who appeared to him as the "three-eyed raven" in last year's finale, where he'll presumably master his magical abilities. He won't appear in this season, but when he does return, Game of Thrones showrunner David Benioff has promised an effect similar to Luke Skywalker's dramatic reappearance in the third Star Wars film as a fully trained Jedi.
At this point, we've followed these central characters for so long, and seen them in so many situations, that it's fair to wonder whether these storylines are going anywhere (particularly with the three young Starks). I'm fully convinced that they are — I expect these pawns will reach the other end of the chessboard. And that what they do with their newfound powers will be fascinating to watch.
Read the recap. Come back next week for thoughts on the next episode.
Next episode's discussion
It’s almost a shame to confine Maria Bamford to text. After all, the 44-year-old comedian's shape-shifting voice has defined her standup career. Bamford has an uncanny ability to convey an entire character with the subtlest tonal shift. When her voice is just a little huskier than normal, she’s a smarmy Hollywood ladder-climber. A little higher and with a slight quiver to it, and she’s that overeager coworker who’s just dying to go to Quiznos for lunch. And Bamford uses that voice to deliver a one-of-a-kind set about OCD, suicide, organized religion, and her pet pugs.
I spoke with her earlier this month about how she writes jokes, how she makes the saddest parts of the human experience funny, and finding dog clothes on Etsy.
Danielle Kurtzleben: A lot of your jokes seem to be about being an outsider  — having mental illness, being an unconventional comedian, being single. What is it about being an outsider that you find so compelling?
Maria Bamford: It’s all perception, thinking that one is an outsider. I mean, the thing I like about standup is that it is independent. And nobody can tell you that you’re not doing it right. I mean, they can, but you can still keep doing it.
And you get to say exactly — exactly — what you want to say, and do exactly what you find funny.
So it’s a delightful art form. My friend Amy just gave me a good premise for a joke today. We were talking about how friends are always in flux and, at least in LA, it’s like marketing, like you’ve got to stay on somebody’s email list and tweet at them, like signing up for some sort of service: "Are you still interested in our, uh ... ok! All right! It sounds like you're busy!"
In a big city, it becomes sort of service-oriented: "Are you within my driving range? Oh, we actually don't work. You seem like a really interesting person and, you know, I want to support you, but I know geographically I can’t."
DK: Is that where your jokes materialize? From conversations with friends?
MB: It’s a mix of stuff. I have a joke right now. It’s about my friend Amy, but really, it’s like all the voices are me, you know? Or versions of me. May I tell it to you? The joke?
DK: Absolutely!
MB: It’s happening. It’s too late now. You can’t stop it. It’s already hit the gate.
My friend Amy is always trying to get me to do stuff: [quivering, excited voice] "You want to go horseback riding?"
"I don't remember comedy being revered that much ... and now it seems to be seen as an art form"
[normal voice] Oh god. What is it?
"You’ve got a horse and a dusty trail, with two lesbians who used to be a couple but now they run a small business together, and you have to wash the horses with a chemical that’s blue with no label, and you cut up carrots and you put them in a bucket, and the horses bite."
Okay. I’ll go once. But I’m going to cry all the way there, and I’m going to need a Peanut Buster Parfait on the way back. [manic] Ice cream. Hot fudge. Peanuts. Ice cream. Hot fudge. Peanuts. Ice cream. Whipped cream! Topped with cherry!
The thing is, I’m the one who tried to get a friend to go horseback riding. And it’s hilarious, because now she’s totally into horseback riding and I don’t want to go.
But that’s how I feel about doing things. The next thing is she said, "Maria, do you want to go swing dancing?"
People are still doing that? The war is over! There’s plenty of pantyhose for everyone!
"It’s on Sunday from 2 to 4, just when you don’t want to do anything, and even if you bring a partner you’ve got to dance with strangers the whole time, and some of them are drunk, or from the era where women weren’t allowed to talk back, and—"
I’ll go for three years. I’ll go for three years. And I’ll do my hair that way. And I’ll do the lipstick and I’ll get the shoes, but that is IT.
And the thing is, I’m the one who tried to get friends to do it. So it’s me. But — what was the last one?
"Do you want to go to a fitness boot camp?" — and this is one that my friend did actually try to get me to go to.
Oh god.
"It’s every day at 6 am, but you’ve got to be committed. They’re trying to get you into a shape. And you get to hold a basketball, but you don’t actually play basketball. And you put on boxing gloves, but you never get to actually box, and you run and you run and you run, and there’s no game element to distract you from the fact that you're running and running and running"
Here’s what I’m going to do: I’m going to go every day for 14 days in a row. And I'm going to get excited about it. I'm gonna tell people about it. And I’m going to get other people to go. And then on Day 15, Tonya — and I know it’s going to be Tonya — is going to say, [peppy, cheerleader-ish voice] "Okay, Maria! Today I want to see you push it!" And I’m never going to go again.
"But will you forget to cancel the automatic debit from your checking account for the next two years?"
[whispers] Of course I will. I love you so much.
My friend did get me to go to a fitness boot camp, and it was so miserable. There was no fun to be had! And we tried to make it fun, we tried to have some laughs, but then they wouldn’t let us laugh during it because we were distracting.

Listen to Maria tell her new joke, complete with her trademark voices and a journalist cackling in the background.
DK: Did you at least feel like you were in better shape?
MB: Oh yeah, totally. We got into great shape, but who cares? It was just so miserable. At least let’s, like, have weird races. Let's race each other and have prizes. I mean, if we’re going to get all serious about it, let’s do the Hunger Games. Let’s get really weird. If I could have won something or if there was something like, "Fall upon the rabbit!" and we all have to chase this rabbit. "Fall upon it! With your knives!" It’s violent, but it’s great cardio.
DK: Who are some of the best comedians you are seeing out there right now?
MB: There are so many wonderful comedians. Kate Berlant — she’s out of LA, and she is a delight. And then I just saw a few comics from Chicago that were just spectacular. Rebecca O’Neal was just great, and then Katie McVay I also saw out of Chicago, and she was really wonderful and super-funny.
I just think it’s a real renaissance — there are so many great comics, not only people older and the same age as me, but people who are only 12. Just nubile 12-year-olds.
DK: What do you mean by "comedy renaissance"?
MB: I think it's a boom. There are just so many more comics, which also means great comedians, and it’s really wonderful. I just remember when I started out, there just weren’t as many open mics or venues. I don't remember comedy being revered that much — and now it seems to be seen as an art form.
It used to be listed next to karaoke at the end of whatever the free paper was. And maybe it should be. Karaoke is an art form. It’s quite beautiful.
DK: You do a great job of making some potentially depressing things, like suicide or OCD or loneliness, really funny. How do you navigate that line?
MB: I think it depends on the audience. The people I do it for are already on board. I think I could do that material in a different venue or with people who didn’t know what they’re coming to see, and they would be pissed and bummed out. I think a lot of it rests on the audience. It’s not that I’m a genius. It’s that the people that are coming are ready to hear it. They think it’s in the zeitgeist. Like, I’ve felt like there's been so much more support and openness about mental illness — Catherine Zeta-Jones on the cover of People saying she’s bipolar. It’s just really wonderful. But yeah, I’m definitely preaching to the choir.
"there are huge swaths of comedy that are not represented by hipster comedy coverage"
DK: Maybe that’s what’s going on in comedy, the same thing that’s going on in music — you can go on Spotify and find really niche things. You can find someone who plays calliope music, if you’re into it.
MB: Which is so great! It’s made it possible for artists of all kinds to have — all sorts of craft people have careers and have incomes. Like how I shop only on Etsy, for the most part, for gifts and stuff. And that’s all people like me who are, you know, making a specialized thing, and somebody’s going to look for, "I need an elephant costume for a pug, but somehow I want it to be knit." Well, I’m going to search for that on Etsy.
DK: Is that something you’ve searched for?
MB: Oh yeah. I have an elephant costume for my pug.
It’s so great. I don’t think I would have been able to have a career before the internet.
But then, if you don’t ever see whatever else is out there, you don’t know. There are huge swaths of comedy that are not represented by hipster comedy coverage. Like in my neighborhood, there’s a giant Armenian comedy show that’s put on in this theater in Glendale. That is not discussed in the LA Weekly, but if you seek it out you can find it.
So is that good, that you can find exactly what you want? Or is it making it so that everyone’s more segregated into different things?
I don’t know. It’s hard to say, because before, it was you just get whatever you got. I love Steve Martin, but a lot of people had Steve Martin albums, and I didn’t find out about the Mexican comedian Cantinflas until I moved to LA.

DK: I’ve read quotes from comics like Chris Rock about fears of trying out new material on some audiences — the fear of an audience being too easily offended. Do you ever feel that?
I don’t know. I think it’s just like it’s always been. It’s a public forum, and maybe there's more social media, but things pass over so quickly. I mean, people have like 48 hours of "Oh my god, can you believe they said that? Oh, Christ." And then it’s on to the next new crisis. People are fairly forgiving, or they worry about other things.
"i could be jailed ... but sometimes in women's prisons, they have dog training camps"
Of course, I've had things that have been negative happen on the internet, where I’ve felt scared, and it’s like, so what? It’s okay!
It’s like we’re at a giant potluck dinner and someone is yelling out, "I hate you! You brought the wrong dish! You said you were going to bring a casserole and you brought this thing, and I think you’re a f**king idiot! And you're evil and you should have never been born!"
"...Oh, okay."
It’s just a group of people talking to each other. So the only people who are paying attention are other human beings.
I think everybody’s doing the best they can, and sometimes it’s not that great. I don’t know. Life is hard.
I’ve had some things where my manager called me: "Oh, this thing happened, and you really need to redress it, because somebody said this on the thing." and I’m like "Ehhhh … maybe not."
DK: And it never ends up blowing up?
MB: And if it did, it’s okay. The worst that can happen is the worst thing that can happen.
The worst that can happen is that someone finds out I’m not always the nicest person. Let’s say I was grumpy on an airline flight or something. Well, that’s for sure happened. Then what’s the worst that could happen? I could be jailed. Mmm, probably not, but if I were, I’d be jailed. And no one would ever talk to me again. Well, I like to read. And sometimes in women’s prisons, they have dog training camps.
I’m not saying that that would happen, and maybe that’s thinking too big, but even if all is lost, people are dealing with a lot more than that. So it’ll be fine.
Even if a woman lives for 100 years, the only notable thing in her life is whom she sleeps with.
That's the apparent hidden message of director Lee Toland Krieger's new movie The Age of Adaline, a mawkish sci-fi melodrama about Adaline, a woman cursed by a combination of lightning and hypothermia — yes, lightning and hypothermia — to look like a 29-year-old Blake Lively for the rest of her life.
Rating


Born in 1908, Adaline achieves immortality that allows her to experience monumental events like both World Wars, Vietnam, the Beatles, women's suffrage, Andy Warhol, the '70s, Janis Joplin, the civil rights movement, and the acceptance of gay marriage, to say nothing of inventions like Xerox machines, television, modern airplanes, the internet, wifi, iPhones and Twitter.
Yet the only thing that really stands out for Adaline amid the swells of history are the men she sleeps with or wants to sleep with.
Her latest suitor is the dashing Ellis (Michiel Huisman), who wants to love her before she moves to Oregon. To Adaline, Oregon is apparently a Bermuda triangle of sorts — people are never visited by friends and loved ones and never return from their visit. Adaline isn't really itching to go to Oregon, but she's afraid to tell Ellis she's an immortal old lady.
That makes Age of Adaline essentially Twilight set in San Francisco, with Lively as Robert Pattinson, Huisman as Kristen Stewart, and Harrison Ford and Ellen Burstyn taking turns playing Taylor Lautner and that earlier film series' weird demon baby.

(Lionsgate)
Many things go unexplained in Age of Adaline.
Adaline is friends with a blind piano player who thinks Adaline is in her 60s. Adaline loves dogs. Adaline can speak Portuguese. Adaline goes to London and learns French. There are facets of Adaline's life that are presented to us but never explained or explored.
And that's the main problem with both the film and its title character.
This woman is supposed to have had a rich life, brimming with experiences. If this were any other person, these experiences would have shaped the way he or she looked at the world.
Not so with Adaline. All we're presented with is an openly boring, blank canvas of a person who wants to work in a library and move to Oregon. It's a rather grim view of immortality.
Even though Adaline is such a dull character, it's not difficult to comprehend why Ellis is so deeply attracted to her, despite knowing nothing about her (even if there isn't much to know). She is stunning. Adaline's looks, the movie makes known, are the only reason men fall in love with her.
In fact, a movie detailing her beauty regimen would have been a more riveting film. How did the advent of dry shampoo change Adaline? Did Adaline use sunblock? Does Adaline go to CrossFit?
My colleague Kelsey McKinney and I counted 28 different hairstyles worn by Lively in this 110-minute movie. That means a new hairstyle appears roughly every four minutes. And each style is a marvel — Adaline's hair is simply too good for this world. If the writers were as dedicated as the movie's hairstylists, we could have had another Citizen Kane on our hands.

(Lionsgate)
Unexpectedly, Ford holds his sections of the movie together, doing a brilliant job as William Jones, an old (literally old) flame cut from the tapestry of Nicholas Sparks novels. William is one of the fixtures of Adaline's youth, and he, like the rest of the people in her life, has moved on without her. He's a stargazing professor celebrating his 40th wedding anniversary now.
Ford is equal parts goofy and graceful as William. He shifts from understated comedy into all-out heartbreak. But his greatest strength is coaxing glimmers of feeling from Lively, who seems to have confused the movie's "old soul" concept with being aloof.
Burstyn and Huisman also turn in good performances as Adaline's old-lady child, Flemming, and Adaline's much younger lover. Burstyn makes the most of the wry humor in Lively playing her mom. And Huisman is charming as a young tech millionaire, even if Lively and the writing don't give him much to work with.





Immortality can be depressing, but immortality when you have no discernible personality is truly terrifying




However, these characters suffer from the same symptoms of Adaline's unexplained life. We know stuff about them — Flemming wants to live in a retirement community because she has friends who break hips; Ellis likes books — but there isn't really any attempt to show how these bits of information, or even snooze-inducing Adaline herself, fit into the puzzle of their lives.
Age of Adaline wants to be a movie about the grim underbelly of immortality. And while it shows us the sad, gory bits of that reality — children getting older than their parents, lovers dying, not being able to commit to a long-term relationship — it's Adaline's monotonous life and personality that are the real horror.
Immortality can be depressing, but immortality when you have no discernible personality is truly terrifying. If the film were even the slightest bit aware of the macabre message it sends, it might be worth wasting a few mortal minutes on.
★★★
Dr. Oz has come under heavy criticism in recent months for promoting junk science on his widely watched television show. He's been lambasted by experts, by fellow doctors, even by the federal government.
Now Oz is finally responding to those critics. But rather than address their complaints head on, he mostly wants to talk about ... civil liberties. "I know I have irritated some potential allies," he wrote in Time magazine on Thursday. "No matter our disagreements, freedom of speech is the most fundamental right we have as Americans. We will not be silenced."
This is no doubt an excellent PR move. Oz is depicting himself as a victim against critics that, he says, are working hand in hand with industry to silence him. (Some of the doctors who wrote a high-profile letter asking Columbia University to strip Oz do seem to have potential conflicts of interest.)
But Oz has nothing to say about the substantive criticisms against him. We picked through his defense to show why each of his counterarguments are wrong.
Oz's first line of defense is to remind his audience about his fundamental right to free speech. But that doesn't mean he can just say anything he wants about health and science — even if it harms people.
Legally speaking, it's true that Oz has the constitutional right to speak freely on TV. Claudia Haupt, an associate-in-law at Columbia Law School, points out that doctors have to be careful what they say in a clinic, since bad advice could be considered malpractice that's not protected by the First Amendment. On TV, however, Oz is technically speaking as a private individual in public discourse. "That speech is generally protected by First Amendment," Haupt said.
But that's not the whole story. As a doctor, Oz also took the Hippocratic oath to "do no harm." The reason so many people listen to what Oz says is that he isn’t just your run-of-the-mill faith healer. He’s a heart surgeon, one who had a well-respected career as a researcher before starting a TV show. Oz reminds his viewers of that authority in almost every show.
Oz recently tried to protest — preposterously — that his show isn't really a medical show and shouldn't be held to high standards. "We very purposely, on the logo, have 'Oz' as the middle, and the 'Doctor' is actually up in the little bar for a reason," he told NBC.    "I want folks to realize that I'm a doctor, and I'm coming into their  lives to be supportive of them. But it's not a medical show." But this is absurd. Of course many viewers are going to assume he's speaking from his position as a medical authority. (As John Oliver quipped, the show isn't called: "Check this shit out with a guy named Mehmet.")
So even if Oz has the constitutional right to say whatever he wants, he also has an obligation not to harm people with bad or scientifically invalid advice — particularly when he's going out in public with his white coat. And his critics certainly have the right to hold him accountable for misleading people about medicine — even if he is outside the operating room.
In a phone interview with Vox on Sunday evening, Dr. Oz  said many of his detractors had ulterior motives — such as financial ties to the food industry. "Did you know who those people were who were sending the petition [to Columbia University]?" Oz said. "Did you know they work for companies and groups linked to the pro-GMO groups?"
Oz was previewing a defense he has articulated all this week — attacking the integrity of a select few critics. "The lead author [of the Columbia letter], Henry I. Miller, appears to have a history as a pro-biotech scientist, and was mentioned in early tobacco-industry litigation as a potential ally to industry," Oz wrote in Time.
Yet even if those letter writers do have conflicts of interest, which they may, it's largely beside the point. They are far from the only critics. Plenty of concerns about Oz's show have been raised by members of medical and scientific communities, as well as by the US Senate and Federal Trade Commission. Experts have complained that Dr. Oz's medical  advice too often deviates from science and influences public health for the worse.
The FTC found that at least one of Dr. Oz's guests used the program as a   platform to deceive audiences and sell products, capitalizing on the "Oz   effect" — the fact that whenever he so much as mentions a product,   stores can't restock it quickly enough.
Oz was also called before a Senate subcommittee on consumer protection last summer. He was asked by Sen. Claire  McCaskill (D-MO) to explain his use of "flowery" language to champion  weight-loss fixes that don't actually work. McCaskill also  admonished   him for endorsing a rainbow of supplements as potential  "belly blasters"  and "mega metabolism boosters." "The scientific community is almost monolithic against you in terms of  the efficacy of the three products you called   'miracles,'" McCaskill  said.
That's the real issue. The backgrounds of a few letter-writers are a diversion.

(Peter Kramer/NBC/NBC NewsWire via Getty Images)
One of the highest-profile criticisms of Oz came in a recent paper for the British Medical Journal. The researchers examined health claims showcased on 40 randomly selected episodes of the two most popular internationally syndicated health talk shows, The Dr. Oz Show and The Doctors. They found that about half of the recommendations on these shows either had no evidence behind them or actually contradicted what the best  available science tells us.Oz tried to rebut this study in his Time piece,  claiming that he's being held to an unfair standard. After all, he said, only about  half the advice that doctors give in their offices is backed by randomized clinical trial data  (i.e., the gold standard of research evidence). "This reflects that natural gap between what is proven in clinical trials and the needs of our patients," he said.
But Oz was making a false comparison here. It is true that doctors can't always make recommendations based on the highest-quality evidence. Sometimes randomized clinical trial data isn't available, so they have to make use of other evidence, like cohort studies or case reports.
But the BMJ paper didn't say this is what Oz was doing. It said that half of the recommendations on The Dr. Oz Show were based on no science whatsoever. They were either completely baseless or wrong. This is completely different from what most doctors do.
Indeed, this explains why eight of Oz's own colleagues at Columbia University recently cited this BMJ study to criticize Oz's show. "This [BMJ] report raises concerns that Dr. Oz's presentations of anecdotal  therapies as 'miracle cures' occur in the absence of what we see as  obligatory discussions of conflicts of interest, possible side-effects  and evidence-based medicine (or lack thereof)," they wrote in a USA Today op-ed.
Oz's Columbia colleagues also added this: "Many of us are spending a  significant amount of our clinical time debunking Ozisms regarding  metabolism game changers. Irrespective of the underlying motives, this  unsubstantiated medicine sullies the reputation of Columbia University  and undermines the trust that is essential to physician-patient  relationships."
To be clear, those Columbia colleagues don't think Oz should lose his faculty position  because of his sometimes-dubious TV advice. But they do argue that we need a  better way to deal  with media doctors and their virtual patients. They're right. Doctors shouldn't be deterred from speaking in public; we need more science-minded people who will work against the erosion of reason and legitimization of pseudoscience that has become pervasive in our society. Unfortunately, Oz clearly isn't always doing that. 
Richard Feynman, one of the greatest scientists of the 20th century, said, "Science is what we have learned about how to keep from fooling ourselves." Right now, Oz is fooling himself — and his audience.
The making of Dr. Oz — how an award-winning doctor turned away from science and embraced fame
New WikiLeaks documents reveal the inner workings of The Dr. Oz Show
The obituaries are already being written for Tidal. Jay Z's streaming platform launched in March with a strange press conference, a list of high-profile celebrity backers, and a pretty terrible product. For $20 a month, consumers got access to higher-quality audio; for $10 a month, they could have access to a streaming service almost identical to Spotify.
Less than a month later, critics are calling Tidal a failure. Gawker described it as an awful user experience, a criticism with some merit. TechRadar made a list of everything wrong with the platform, and its points are all valid. The CEO was replaced shortly after launch and 25 employees were fired, and that's certainly concerning. Then on Tuesday BGR made an absurd claim that Tidal was already dying based on the fact that it fell out of the top 20 in the Apple App Store.
But if Tidal fails, it won't be solely because of its low app sales (or even its poor user experience). The company's biggest problem by far is that streaming is a fragile business in which it's incredibly difficult to succeed. The odds of failure for Tidal are high. But so are the odds of failure for Spotify or Rdio or any other of your favorite interactive streaming services.
Building a music-streaming service isn't like setting up any other tech company. It's true that all startup companies face legal hurdles, difficulties getting funding, and trouble finding a user base.
But in the music technology sector there are a lot of additional legal hoops to jump through — because the product these companies want to provide actually belongs to someone else. Every song has separate copyrights for the written composition of the song and the performance, which means different people (often several people) have to be paid for every play of every song.
And the hurdles companies like Tidal or Spotify face are especially difficult.
Their costs to pay for music are pretty much fixed
The streaming industry is divided into two types of services — interactive and non-interactive — that follow different laws and have different challenges. Non-interactive services like Pandora have to try to predict what users want to listen to next. That's difficult. But on the plus side, because they function like AM/FM radio (users can't pick which songs to listen to in which order), they are covered legally by Section 114 of the Copyright Act and can pay a set statutory rate for all performers, whether it's Taylor Swift or an unknown local band. That means their costs to pay for music are pretty much fixed.
Then there are interactive services like Tidal or Spotify. Here, the users choose what they play. But that also means the services have to negotiate rates directly with every single artist. If they want big artists like Taylor Swift or Rihanna, they have to spend a lot of money. In 2013, Spotify paid an estimated 70 percent of its revenue in licensing fees.
it's impossible to tell which businesses are succeeding solely based on their popularity
"There’s a ton of value for consumers [in services like Spotify or Tidal]. But because there is no statutory license, getting an interactive service off the ground takes an average of two years, a ton of upfront cash, and probably some of your equity," Casey Rae, vice president for policy and education at the Future of Music Coalition, told me back in September.
This is why it's hard to compare these different services just by looking at their App Store sales. The BGR piece noted that Tidal dropped out of the top 20 apps in the Apple Store, whereas Pandora and Spotify occupied the third and fourth spots. But we can't really compare Tidal (or even Spotify) to Pandora. Because these companies have such different legal playbooks, it's impossible to tell which businesses are succeeding solely based on their popularity.

Spotify might be in the same camp as Tidal. (Getty)
Not only does Tidal have to deal with higher payout rates for artists, and more legal hurdles, it's also in a much more competitive market than Pandora. Every major tech company, it seems, wants to get into interactive streaming. Apple purchased Beats Music for $3 billion. Amazon is launching its own streaming service, and Google has created one, too. On top of that, there's still Spotify and Rdio.
That's a minimum of seven major names (including Tidal) all competing for the same market of listeners: those who want to choose which songs they play in which order, build playlists, and maybe gain access to some exclusive content.
The biggest problem? That's actually a tiny portion of music listeners in the country. Most people don't own extensive record collections or have vast libraries full of music. Instead, they're content to listen to whatever the radio puts on. According to a 2014 Pew Report on audio listening in America, almost 92 percent of the public is still listening to AM/FM radio. That percentage hasn't changed a ton even with the invention of the internet. The next most popular services are online radio, which 39 percent of Americans listen to, and satellite radio, which 23.9 percent of Americans listen to.
The Pew Report doesn't provide data for non-interactive streaming listening in the United States, but even if we take monthly active uses as a good estimate, all of the non-interactive streaming services combined wouldn't add up to Pandora's.
(Data from the Pew Report 2014)
So not only is Tidal in a marketplace with a huge legal hill to climb, it's also competing for a tiny market of users in a very tight competition.
As if the deck didn't already seem stacked against interactive streaming services, they also have a huge PR problem. Artists are outspoken about the fact that they feel underpaid for their work by Spotify and other services.
Here's Jeffrey Boxer, the executive director of C3, a coalition trying to bring artists together to fight for fairness in the industry: "So many people in music want to maintain the illusion that it’s sex, drugs, and rock 'n' roll and that everything is great," he told me. "People have great albums and they’re incredible artists, and they’re filling out an Uber application because they can't make enough money to live."
It's a common story at this point. Aloe Blacc talked to me in January about his struggle to get paid for the work he creates. Taylor Swift removed all of her music from Spotify in protest of how little money she made.
Whether streaming actually is bad for artists is a long and complicated question that I wrote about earlier this year. But this perception is a huge problem for Tidal, and it's one the company didn't really help itself with. Tidal originally claimed to be a site "for artists" — but it only seemed to represent the stars who already make enough money to live on.
As little as they get paid for streaming, it beats consumers downloading music for free on Napster
That said, artists are still reluctant to abandon the streaming model entirely. "Let’s say today we all said, 'Spotify’s awful. We’re going to take all of our music down.' Where is the consumer going to go?" Charles Caldas, the CEO of the indie-label network Merlin, told me. "Are they going to buy it again? Or are they going to steal it again?"
That's the biggest fear for artists. As little as they get paid for streaming, it beats consumers downloading music for free on Napster. And it's entirely possible that if consumers had to pay more or use different systems, they would just go back to torrenting.

Rihanna signs the Tidal bill of rights. (Jamie McCarthy/Getty)
The questions about Tidal's viability are really questions about this entire sector of the music industry.
"It is the standalone services that are the most vulnerable. It’s not that we have to make sure they last, but I would love to see the opportunity for innovation to happen in the marketplace that is good for artists," Rae told me. "That was the promise of this internet age."
All interactive streaming services are vulnerable and all have the opportunity to fail dramatically. It's not just Tidal. It's Spotify, and Rdio, and Beats and Google Play. None of these companies are more than 10 years old, and none of them have the stability to guarantee them success in a marketplace that has changed dramatically in consumption in the last 15 years, but not so dramatically legally.
Back in October, when I spoke with Rae about the battle around streaming following Taylor Swift pulling her music from Spotify, he mentioned that high-quality streaming might be a service that survives. "Curation has a lot of value. Not only is new music a huge thing, but you’re competing against the entire history of music. Like I might be interested in a really well-curated system that was subscription," he said.
But even that's no guarantee. Tidal is trying to be a curated system with celebrity-made playlists and exclusives. But as it turns out, it's incredibly difficult to succeed in a market that is intensely competitive, held together by outdated legal structures and difficult royalty payment plans, and completely unstable.
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and foreign policy reporter Amanda Taub. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Libby Nelson: Todd, I think we're both right. I've focused on Peggy and Joan's promising dates not because I'm ignoring the growing sense of disconnection, but because I'm clinging to a rare exception.
Mad Men's characters aren't struggling to connect anymore. They've mostly stopped trying — and it's not just Don. The tally of lost relationships, not just with spouses but with family, friends, and society, over the past seven seasons is staggering. The original characters from Sterling Cooper started the 1960s together; they're ending them alone.
The original characters started the 1960s together; they're ending them alone
This is part of the big social narrative Mad Men is telling, and it's not without its upside. The general sense of isolation makes the moments when characters do connect — from the long night on "The Suitcase" to the beautiful shot of Don, Peggy, and Pete at Burger Chef — all the more luminous.
But the growing disconnect is one of the reasons we're having trouble imagining an ending. Characters who used to struggle with each other are now mostly struggling with themselves. That's not a fight that ends with a knockout punch. It's not a fight that ends at all. It's one that goes on and on, with at best minor victories, and eventually ends in an eternal draw.
The first three seasons of Mad Men were about people with troubled, unhappy relationships in a flawed society. But still: they had relationships. They were part of society. Roger went to Don's house for dinner; Sal went to Ken's. The men struggled with their wives and their in-laws. Joan had her husband. Even Peggy had her mother, her sister, and her priest. And the women in Don's life, outside the Sterling Cooper circle, were given connections of their own to family and friends.
Those bonds — marriage, family, religion, workplace — were Mad Men's major source of conflict. Then the bonds snap: not just Roger, Joan's, and Don's divorces and Pete's separation, but the rift between Roger and Joan created by Joan's ascension to partner, the death of Lane Pryce, Peggy's alienation from her family. As the series continues, the breakdown of the bonds gets more and more chaotic: Paul Kinsey disappears into the Hare Krishnas. Peggy stabs her boyfriend. Ginsberg becomes mentally ill.
In the background, the old social mores and safety nets have disappeared. (Amanda, I loved your concise explanation of the sliding scale of what wives are willing to put up with.) This change is for the better, but for the characters it must feel almost post-apocalyptic. Their lives fell out from under them, and the world they were born into is no longer recognizable.
It's wonderfully symbolic, but to a fan, it's frustrating. Severing the connections between characters means we also lose the conflict and interplay between them. There's nothing inherently less worthy about internal conflict, but it's harder to dramatize — let alone resolve. And as characters are increasingly disconnected from one another, we end up with more storylines featuring new or minor characters. Instead of seeing Megan, Don, and Peggy interact, we see Megan and her family, Don and the waitress, and Peggy and Pima. Everyone starts to feel shortchanged.
So, no, Todd, I don't think you're being too gloomy. Maybe Don is building toward a revelation. Maybe the glimmers of new connections we've seen for Joan and Peggy will brighten. But the profound alienation most characters seem to be experiencing might not be able to be easily resolved in only a few remaining episodes.
Read the recap, and come back next week for thoughts on the next episode.
Previous entry
Next episode's discussion
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by culture writer Kelsey McKinney and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Todd VanDerWerff: The title of this episode — "The House of Black and White" — strikes me as potentially a key to understanding both the episode and where this season is headed. (It's also a really cool set. Just look at those giant doors!)
When Arya finally realizes that the man who greeted her at the door was actually Jaqen (or, at least, someone who's comfortable appearing to be Jaqen for her), she's told, more or less, that names don't have much currency among this set. The individual is mostly subsumed into the collective. The old is buried in favor of the new. The only way to truly change is to completely let go — at least for a little while.
Now, we know Arya well enough by now (and also know the books this is adapted from well enough) to know that she will struggle mightily with that idea — but so would anybody. A big part of what organizes and animates Game of Thrones is the idea of how we organize our societies, and George R. R. Martin based much of what happens in the books (as well as many of the characters) on actual historical societies and events — just heightened to better fit in a fantastical world.
Thus, the House — and those who reside within it — is just another way that people organize themselves, one that we're getting to see through the eyes of somebody unfamiliar. And all of that brings me to something kind of cool about the books this series is based on.
It's harder to tell on the TV show — because the show has a harder time indicating which characters are point-of-view characters than the page does — but at the center of Martin's books are a bunch of characters who are largely out of power. Yes, in the first book, Ned Stark is the Hand of the King, and that carries quite a bit of weight. But for the most part, this series is about a bunch of people who are ground up by the system in some way insisting there has to be something better.
For the most part, this series is about people who are ground up by the system insisting there has to be something better
Tyrion is hated by his family and mocked by much of society. Arya and Sansa are the daughters of a man convicted of treason — and tossed to the winds, consequently. Jon is Ned's illegitimate son. Dany is exiled to a far-off land and unlikely to ever rule because she's a woman. Bran can't walk. And on and on.
The fourth episode of this series is called "Cripples, Bastards, and Broken Things," and that's a pretty good indicator of both where Martin's sympathies lie and how this story defies many of the traditions of its genre. Yes, there have always been grittier, more earthbound fantasies, but there's still the strong influence of Arthurian legends and epic poems. The larger-than-life quality is practically baked into the genre.
But Game of Thrones asks what it would be like to live in a world both where the larger-than-life days are mostly over (save for a dragon or witch or two) and be somebody scrabbling along on the edges of that society. True, the series doesn't really have any point-of-view characters who are of lower classes — its characters tend to be nobility in some way or another — but it still possesses a view of its world in which those who are ignored still deserve voices.
And that's why these alternate systems — be they a mother of dragons who overturns a slaver society or a building full of people who seemingly give themselves over to a larger goal — hold such appeal for people like Tyrion or Arya. They've tried the way of the Seven Kingdoms, and it mostly resulted in death and heartbreak. At this point, just about anything else must seem at least a little bit intriguing.
Andrew, we've barely talked about a scene that I think says a lot about what this series values — Jaime convincing Bronn to join him on a fun adventure to Dorne. What do you make of that, and where do you hope this is all headed?
Read the recap. Andrew will return with more thoughts tomorrow.
Previous entry
Next: Andrew on how the show makes pawns into rulers
Spoilers for the complete third season of The Americans follow.
The Americans, FX's terrific series about Soviet spies working in early 1980s Washington, DC, concluded its third season (its best yet) with a string of crushing revelations.
In the season's penultimate episode, Philip Jennings (Matthew Rhys) allowed Martha (Alison Wright), the woman he'd manipulated into a fake marriage to see him sans disguise for the first time.
And in the finale, Elizabeth Jennings (Keri Russell) took the couple's daughter Paige (Holly Taylor) to West Germany, where she met Elizabeth's Russian mother for the first time. Paige, who had learned the truth about her parents in a tremendous episode, found herself weighed down by the knowledge and finally spilled the beans to her pastor in the episode's concluding scene. Philip and Elizabeth's secret is out, and nothing can be the same.
Intrigued by these developments and the season as a whole, I hopped on the phone with the series' co-showrunner Joel Fields to talk about the development of the Paige and Martha arcs, whether the show has too many plots, and what one word he might use to describe the writers' early discussions about season four.
This interview has been lightly edited for length and clarity.
Todd VanDerWerff: Paige is not known for being dishonest. But in your mind, isn't there a part of Pastor Tim that has to be saying, "C'mon, Paige. You're making up some crazy shit!"?
Joel Fields: [Laughs.] I don't think we're gonna be able to get out of this that easily.
TV: What was it like constructing Paige's arc for the season? How did you decide to end it in that place?
JF: The Paige arc was one where we knew we were writing toward the moment when Philip and Elizabeth would tell her the truth. It was very early in the season when we realized that though they would debate telling her the truth, they were going to be blindsided by her demanding it.

Joel Fields (Frederick M. Brown/Getty Images)
The exact where of how that would take place shifted along the way, too, so much so that Joe [Weisberg, creator and fellow showrunner] and I went and wrote that story in private, just the two of us, then quietly handed it to our writing staff to let them be the canaries in the coal mine reading it for the first time and finding out when and how it would happen.
In terms of the very end, we had that piece of Elizabeth going to see her mother one last time from before we started breaking the season. We had the idea that she would bring Paige, and the idea that they would go to West Germany, and the surprise of how the mother would be smuggled in from Russia instead of them having to go to Russia. But Paige's phone call to Pastor Tim was something that came late to us.
In a way, it came out of how we found her reaction to all of this playing. We made a conscious choice not to have telling Paige be a singular episode, because we felt it wasn't the beginning, middle, and end in one episode sort of story, but rather a transformation of the dynamics of the show that would play out going forward. That proved to be the case, and as we saw her try to hold that secret, and we saw the amount of pain she was in, this started to take on an inevitability.

Holly Taylor plays Paige Jennings on The Americans. (FX)
TV: How much were you collaborating with Holly Taylor on this?
JF: The collaboration goes back way before me, to Gavin O'Connor, who directed the pilot and was a key part of selecting this actress, and the other people who were involved in that process — Leslee Feldman [head of casting] at Dreamworks and everybody who found Holly and identified her for this part.
And working with Holly over the years, we found we were blessed with a human being who is very open and an actress who is intuitive. One of the great things about Holly is she's able to take these emotional pieces and deliver them in a human way without worrying about acting them too much, just making them real.
It's very rare on a TV show to meet a week beforehand and spend a few hours working a scene, but that paid enormous dividends
We did some things we've never done on this show before. We made time on that big scene to rehearse well before the day we shot it. Although we do rehearsals the day before we shoot, it's very rare on a TV show to meet a week beforehand and spend a few hours working a scene, but that paid enormous dividends.
Another thing we did is although we have tone meetings with every director and we talk about every scene in detail with every director, we actually created a document starting in episode 10, going through the finale, tracking Paige's emotional arc in every episode and in every scene of every episode and sometimes down to dialogue within scenes, as to what we felt she was experiencing and going through. We talked to Holly about it. We talked to Dan Sackheim, our producing director, about it. We talked to each visiting director about it.
TV: The other big reveal of the season is that Martha now knows her husband is not at all what he said he was. What brought that into this season, and how did you find that informing the Paige story and vice versa?
JF: That's one that we really knew where we were headed. We, for a long time, thought he was going to take off that wig and expose himself for who he was in the finale. But as we broke the finale, there was so much story there, we decided we wanted to let it breathe and have its own powerful moment at the end of episode 12 and let his action for her in the murder of Gene [a computer technician who works with Martha] and the framing of Gene [for Martha bugging the FBI office where she works] speak for itself in the finale.
We can try to manipulate, but ultimately there will be human consequences
It's an interesting question how it frames the relationship with Paige. I'm almost hesitant to speak to it because you want to let all of that play both in our conscious and subconscious intention. But one thing that comes to mind is that although these spies are master manipulators, ultimately they're dealing with human beings, and all of us, in life, are engaged in relationships with other people. We can try to manipulate, and we can try to outgame, but ultimately people are going to have their human responses, and there will be human consequences.
Whether that's Martha, the woman you would do anything to manipulate so long as she would deliver the intel you wanted, including fake marry, if that's what you had to do — well, now she's grown through that marriage, and she's going to walk out and fall apart. You can kill her, or you can double down on your trust. And unfortunately, you've had your transference and are dealing with your own feelings.
Or your own daughter! You may have way back when had a child on orders because that's what it was going to take to fit in and thought nothing of it, because that's what you do. And now you've been debating how or if you should tell her the truth. And the one thing you hadn't counted on is you'd come home one night in the middle of the night, and she'd be waiting for you, demanding answers.

Martha (Alison Wright) learns the truth about her husband on this season of The Americans. (FX)
TV: Last season, when I talked to you, you mentioned how the characters on this show are very psychologically unaware. This season, that breaks open a little bit, especially in the finale where Philip seems on the edge of a revelation he can't put into words. That's very similar to the self-discovery and self-help movement that was prominent in the country in the '80s. How much do you talk about these characters and their world becoming aware of themselves?
JF: We talk about it a lot. There's the whole est story for you. It was part of the national consciousness, and it was expressed in a lot of these movements, but est was a big one. So we knew we wanted that to be part of the season. In fact, we saw Philip struggling with the human consequences of his work in season two, and the first place you see him this season is at est. Yes, he's there for his friend, but by the end of the season he's there for himself.
As Sandra says, he doesn't even know why. Sometimes you come for someone else, and you wind up there for yourself. There's growth there, but for him that growth is dangerous.
TV: If there's been a criticism of this season, it's been that there's so much plot that it can be hard to follow. To what degree do you understand where that's coming from, and to what degree do you use plot as a distraction from what you're really doing, which is setting up the emotional and character arcs?
JF: I've worked on shows where plot is the primary driver. But this is one where it's really all about character. What interests me and Joe are the character journeys, and the plot is only interesting to the extent that it's a trigger for those emotional stories.
The plot is only interesting to the extent that it's a trigger for those emotional stories
I think the thing we struggle with is because we're not particularly interested in the plot, we really try not to exposit it. We try not to go to it unless it's provoking something emotional for the characters. When we do, we try to never explain things that they wouldn't need [to be] explained, so that may lead to some confusion. That may be a fair criticism. That may make it hard to follow. Our feeling is that if the characters can follow it, the audience will go along. We may be right or wrong, but that's been our guide.
There have been times when we've looked at scenes, and we've said, "God, we've gotta put in a little exposition so that someone will understand what's going on here." Maybe we should have done more of that, but that's the struggle for us is to have it be true and most provocative for the character's journey.
TV: You've traditionally skipped a few months of show time between seasons, but this season left so much dangling from several episodes up to and including the finale. Are you going to pick up immediately or are you comfortable leaving things dangling?
JF: It's as if you were in our writers' room today. There has been much, much debate on exactly this point, on exactly this day. We have very strong instincts about the story we want to tell, and I think it's becoming very clear today where we want to pick up, although there may be some dissent in the ranks of the writers' room. We will see as that shakes out over the next couple of weeks. It's been a lively discussion on exactly that point.
What I will say is whether they're cliffhangers or they're character crises, whatever you want to call them, those are the exciting drivers to us.
TV: The same-day ratings sometimes are not what you'd like them to be, but the ratings for the overall DVR viewers jump spectacularly. To what degree do you worry about numbers like that?
JF: I rented a car this weekend, and the guy behind the counter was so nice. He saw my jacket, which said The Americans, season three, and he said, "The Americans! You work on The Americans! I love that show! My wife and I watched the whole first season, and we loved it. And then we watched the first episode of the second season, and it was so good we decided to wait until you've finished the entire series, and then we're going to binge the whole thing!" [Laughs.] I just plastered a smile on my face and said, "Thank you."
All it can do to think about that is make me crazy, so I try not to and focus on what we do have a little control over
We're in a new age, and the show is what it is and has the audience it has. We could make ourselves crazy thinking about it. It does seem to have an extremely loyal time-shifted following. But ultimately, we have no control over how many people watch the show. All it can do to think about that is make me crazy, so I try not to and focus on what we do have a little control over, which is trying to keep our oars in the water and at best, row forward, and at worst, use them as a rudder to follow the story.
FX
Claudia (Margo Martindale) and Gabriel (Frank Langella) have a meeting at a diner. (FX)
TV: Has there been talk about having more Claudia in season four, now that actress Margo Martindale is more open?
JF: We'll see. We had a wonderful breakfast with her recently. We love her as a human being. We love her as an actress and love her as a character. Boy, that was a fun scene [in episode 12] with her and Frank [Langella]!
TV: As you're headed into season four, what are some themes or questions or things you're talking about that will inform your approach?
I'll give you one word that pops to my mind: Home
JF: Although we've been talking a lot about theme, we're still circling around and we're still in somewhat of the discovery phase. I think we know what it is that we are exploring, but we're using a lot of different words to talk about it.
I'll give you one word that pops to my mind: home.
TV: What pop culture impressions can we look forward to from Henry [the younger Jennings child] next season?
JF: There have been some pretty good pitches on that. "Land Shark" has been pitched. Joking aside, there was a lively debate recently among some of the writers as to whether he would be into the same Monty Python albums we were into in high school or whether that's just because we want to have an excuse to listen to them again.
All three seasons of The Americans are available on Amazon Prime. Season four will air in 2016.
There's an old line that a conservative is a liberal who got mugged. But maybe a liberal is just a conservative who signed up for Obamacare.
A video from YouTube user Hot Lead retired has gone a bit viral in recent weeks. Hot Lead retired is James Webb, a 50-something tea partier who tends to post videos with headlines like "Hillbilly gun shooting rampage video" and "Ferguson. A cesspool." Webb says he is, as you might expect, a lifelong Republican. But on April 13, he posted something unexpected: "This Tea Party Patriot May Vote For Hillary." The reason? Obamacare.

"I ask myself which party has helped me the most in the last 15 years, 20," Webb said. "And it was the Democrat Party. The Democrats. If it wasn't for Obama and that Obamacare, I would still be working. With Obamacare I got to retire at age 50."
Webb goes on to talk about the life Obamacare has afforded him. His insurance plan has a wellness program that's gotten him to the gym. He's spending his time working out, swimming, trying to lose some weight. "I'm leaning toward voting for Hillary unless something major comes up," he says. "I don't trust the Republicans because they want to repeal Obamacare, and then I have to go to work again."
"The Republican Party, they ain't done nothing for me, man, nothing," he says, a bit sadly.
A few days later, he posted "This Me Party Patriot May vote for Hillary Part 2." "I've had a lot of people watch my video the last few days," he says with a rueful chuckle. Then he rambles for a bit about the election calendar and primaries, and concludes: "I've decided not to vote for Hillary in 2016." The second clip has the look and feel of a hostage tape.

You could write a poli-sci dissertation on these videos. There's just so much going on here that explains the deep strangeness of contemporary American politics. For instance:
Obamacare is a particularly good deal for older Americans: the law basically forces young people to buy health insurance in order to make premiums affordable for older, sicker folks. Folks like Webb, who mentions he's got some medical problems.
In a crude way, you would expect the fight over Obamacare to feature older Americans advocating for the law and younger Americans fighting against it. But the reverse has been true because the Republican Party broadly, and the tea party specifically, skew older than the country at large, while the Democratic Party skews younger.
There are policy crosscurrents that help make sense of some of this: young Americans, because they're poorer, get a lot of the law's subsidies. And Obamacare cuts money from Medicare, which angers retirees, and raises taxes on richer people, who tend to be older. So the simple generational analysis only gets you so far. But as Webb's experience shows, it does get you somewhere. Obamacare is an amazing deal for people in their 50s who need health insurance.
Webb's quick reversal is telling. He doesn't walk back anything he said in his first video. He doesn't say Obamacare hasn't been a boon to his life or that he wants it repealed. He just says a lot of people watched the first video. The implication in his astonished chuckle is that he's gotten more and angrier feedback than he expected — he's been lashed by the people he thinks of as his allies and praised by the people he considers his enemies.
It's an excruciating experience to find yourself at odds with your political tribe. So, for most people, it's actually borderline irrational to pick fights with your side. Webb's vote in the 2016 presidential election isn't going to save Obamacare or doom it; his vote will have no effect on his life at all. But publicly coming out as a Hillary Clinton supporter when he attends the next meeting of his local Tea Party Patriots chapter? He'll be attacked by his friends, kicked out of a group he loves, smeared on the internet. His public heterodoxy can really hurt his life. It's not rational for him to announce he's voting for Hillary Clinton. Policy interests matter, but they're much more remote from us than our friends, family, and even our email inbox.
The most peculiar part of Webb's presentation is how at odds it is with, well, everything else on his site. His Ferguson video, for instance, calls the city a "cesspool" because of "generations upon generations upon generations of living off the government."
Meanwhile, his whole argument for Obamacare is that it taxes and regulates other people in order to make it possible for Webb to retire at 50. He notes that if not for Obamacare, he would have to wait until age 65, when he could get Medicare. So where Webb spends one video criticizing the residents of Ferguson for living off the government, he is simultaneously organizing his life around the availability of government-run health insurance programs.

There have been many jokes about tea partiers holding up signs saying "Get the government's hands off my Medicare!" but Webb's videos show how that thinking will eventually come to protect Obamacare, too. Webb is deeply critical of the people he thinks are living off the government. He proudly says he's never taken disability or welfare or food stamps. But he's now terrified that someone in the government will take away his Obamacare.
Americans are nothing if not good at drawing the fine-grained distinctions that show that the government programs other people get are welfare, but the government programs they get are simply what they are owed.

A while back, the Congressional Budget Office caused some controversy by estimating that Obamacare would lead to fewer jobs by reducing the labor supply. This led a lot of people to call Obamacare a job killer, but what it really meant was that Obamacare was a retirement encourager. Or, in budget language, "workers will choose to supply less labor."
Webb is one of those workers choosing to supply less labor. Obamacare is making it possible for him to retire early, so he's retiring early. In some kind of narrow economic view, this is a bad thing. But in a broader view of human flourishing, it's a very good thing. The point of life isn't just to work. The point of living in a rich country isn't just to make it richer.
As Webb says in a video response to a YouTube commenter telling him to "get off your lazy ass and work," "Who the heck are you to decide whether 50 is acceptable? Like I said 100 times before, you might want to work until you die, or until you're 70, but I'm not going to be one of those people that retire in a nursing home while somebody spoon-feeds you applesauce and they're getting your retirement to pay for it all. I'm not going to do it."
This is a great quote to think about when you read people proposing to raise the Social Security retirement age.
Webb is a rare participant in the Obamacare wars: he recognizes that the health care he's getting is coming through Obamacare, he's a tea partier who realizes Republicans want to take away a benefit he relies on, and he's making YouTube videos trying to work through the cognitive dissonance. But what's not rare is his basic situation: he's one of millions of people getting insurance through Obamacare.
It's all well and good for Republicans to talk in the abstract about repealing Obamacare. But if Jeb Bush or Scott Walker takes office and actually tries to repeal Obamacare, they'll be throwing those millions of people off their insurance. The public outcry will be immense — Republicans who loved hitting Obama for saying "If you like your health care, you can keep it" will now be ripping health care away from millions of people.
Which is why they're not going to do it. This, of course, is where the idea of "repeal and replace" comes in — maybe they can replace Obamacare with something that isn't Obamacare but also doesn't hurt people like Webb! But replacing Obamacare with anything even remotely acceptable to most of the people on Obamacare is going to be such a brutal, bitter process requiring so many unpopular tradeoffs and with such a high risk of failure that it's very unlikely a new Republican president is going to want to exhaust his political capital on it.
Note to future guests of PBS NewsHour: Don't cite Taylor Swift songs to anchor your political analysis.
When the Washington Post's Karen Tumulty and NPR's Tamara Keith appeared on Monday's show to discuss GOP presidential hopefuls' criticisms of Hillary Clinton's campaign, Keith summed up Clinton's response to the attacks with "haters gonna hate" — an old phrase that was recently heard (repeatedly) by American audiences in Taylor Swift's popular 2014 single "Shake It Off":
'Cause the players gonna play, play, play, play, playAnd the haters gonna hate, hate, hate, hate, hateBaby, I'm just gonna shake, shake, shake, shake, shakeI shake it off, I shake it offHeart-breakers gonna break, break, break, break, breakAnd the fakers gonna fake, fake, fake, fake, fakeBaby, I'm just gonna shake, shake, shake, shake, shakeI shake it off, I shake it off
Host Gwen Ifill (who some might argue was being a bit of a hater herself) told Keith in no uncertain terms to cut it out.
Here's how the conversation, which starts around the 4:50 mark of the video above, happened:
Karen Tumulty:  The second thing is there were a lot of lines kind of mocking the rough spots of her rollout, lots of jokes about Chipotle, lots of talk about Benghazi. But you did get a sense that the Republicans understand that running against a woman is a little bit of a different endeavor, so they have to be tough enough to rev up their base, but not looking like they are piling on her in a way that is going to offend centrist voters and women who see this as sexist.
Gwen Ifill: And the interesting response this afternoon from Hillary Clinton, who decided to talk to reporters, knowing there would be questions about these questions. And her response was, I don't know what they would talk about if I weren't in the race.
Tamara Keith:  It was sort of "haters going to hate," to quote Taylor Swift.
Gwen Ifill (laughing): Never do that again.
Her response was clearly all in good fun. But hopefully the "haters gonna hate" reference isn't really banned from the nightly news program, because there will no doubt be many more opportunities to make use of Swift's wisdom between now and the 2016 election.
If you managed to miss it, here's the video for "Shake It Off" (which Vox's Kelsey McKinney has argued is a "perfect" song):

Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by culture writer Kelsey McKinney and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Kelsey McKinney: Andrew, it's interesting that you draw a parallel between Daenerys's insistence that she is not her father and her brutal, confusing relationship with her dragon triplets. That's so often the flip side of revenge, isn't it? The family relationships that push things to the breaking point.
When the series began, members of the show's various families were — for the most part — very close, both in proximity and in relationship. Parents were with children; husbands and wives were sleeping in the same bed. Part of the pain and anguish Game of Thrones has created is due to how drastically it has created upheaval within those family structures in the episodes after those first few.
By now, almost nothing once held sacred remains. The first season taught viewers that the only people anyone in the Seven Kingdoms could trust were those in their immediate families, but that truism has been continuously broken down as the show has gone on. If your family members are still alive, they may not have your best interests at heart.
And yet that draw toward one's family, no matter how misguided, seems to be the unbreakable pull that drives so many of the characters and determines how they respond to the world around them.
Family cannot be escaped
The show is also consistent in how it portrays the way children engage with their parents, no matter the generation or family. Children are so often defiant, and angry with their parents. They feel misunderstood, and they act as if they would never behave the same way their parents did, even as they make decisions that reveal just how completely they are the descendants of their parents.
Take Cersei, for instance. She was often furious with her father for his manipulations, particularly how he used her to create political balance by promising her to Loras Tyrell. At the same time, she (not without protest) agreed to have her own daughter shipped across the world to form an alliance. But her appreciation for alliances only extends so far as her father and brother are present. Once the former is dead and the latter gone, she immediately tries to reverse the decision to send Myrcella away. She is linked to her brother and father by her paranoia, her certainty that everyone is out to get her, and the thought that she might ultimately be right.
Politics might be a mess on this show, but they're based in the even bigger mess that is family and the question of how to be loyal to one's family while disagreeing with them. We see this with Sansa, who has formed a strange allegiance with Littlefinger based on a very loose thread of family at best. Littlefinger married her Aunt Lysa, making him her family at a time when Sansa isn't sure how much of her family — if any — is left.
I was also struck by Dany's dismissal of her father's behavior while she herself struggles against her own moral conscience. In the scene where she tells the slave he will be sentenced to death for his behavior, we're invited to see the scene from her perspective. We know she is trying to be  just and fair, because she believes in the law.
But when she stands in front of the people of Meereen and sentences him to death, they cry out to her for mercy. They do not see her decision as an act of justice; they see her as cruel. Here is a man who killed someone who terrorized her soldiers and the city, and she stands in front of them saying he must die. The camera flashes between her view of the crowd and their view of her, where she must seem just as mad as her father.
Family cannot be escaped. Even as the people of this series try to avenge or support their families, they try to keep from becoming them. But that's an impossible task.
Read the recap. Kelsey will return with more thoughts tomorrow.
Previous entry
Next: Todd on the show's powerless characters
What would a chart of Kanye West's "Gold Digger" look like? That might sound like an impossible question to answer, but a poster at Flowing Data has the answer.
Flowing Data is run by Nathan Yau, who has a Ph.D. in data visualization and personal data collection. Yau rendered all 100 of Billboard's top charting songs of all time into funny chart visualizations.

screenshot from the chart-topping song

The top 100 songs of all time were determined by Billboard on the 55th anniversary of the creation of the sales chart. Those songs were ranked in an order determined by chart time and sales.
Here is the chart that displays all 100 songs:

A poster displaying all 100 top songs in chart form (flowingdata.com)
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and foreign policy reporter Amanda Taub. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Todd VanDerWerff: It's interesting to me that both of you highlight connections tentatively formed within these first three episodes (though we haven't seen Peggy's new potential flame again), because the more I look at them, the more they seem to be about disconnection, the way that incorporation into the McCann hive mind has taken a formerly functional workplace family and turned it against itself.
Over at Indiewire, Sam Adams has noticed this, too, pointing out that Mad Men has ended the last four episodes with variations on the same shot — Don, alone and isolated, having a quiet moment of self-reflection. (Notably, the last episode to not end this way ended with Don having dinner with Pete and Peggy at the Burger Chef.)

Don, Peggy, and Pete have dinner together at Burger Chef in "The Strategy." (AMC)

Don all alone in "Waterloo." (AMC)

Don all alone in "Severance." (AMC)

Don all alone in "New Business." (AMC)

Don all alone in "The Forecast." (AMC)
So we're clearly meant to be thinking about this sense of isolation. But I'd argue it runs even deeper than that. At first I thought I was reading too much into things, but every week when I make screencaps for the episodes, I find it incredibly hard to find shots that contain more than one person's face in them, the better to establish the two characters in relation to each other.
Take, for instance, the scene in this week's episode where Don fires Mathis. It starts out with Meredith in the room with the two of them. When she leaves, director Jennifer Getzinger cuts out to a wide shot showing her leave the room.

Meredith exits, and Don and Mathis might as well be on different planets. (AMC)
After that, we don't see Don and Mathis in the same shot ever again. Some of this is just a directorial way to underline what's happening in the story — Don is pushing Mathis out of the family and already has in some ways. But the effect of it is downright eerie. You feel, subconsciously, as if these two people are in two different places entirely.
And Getzinger (and the directors of the two prior episodes) keeps doing this, especially in scenes with Don. When he gives Peggy her performance review, we get a couple of perfunctory shots of her sitting down across from him, and then we're into a long series of shots of the two of them, but never together in the same frame. It's almost as if Getzinger is suggesting Don can appreciate these relationships in the abstract, but not in actuality.

Peggy is isolated in her own shot during her performance review. (AMC)

And so is Don. (AMC)
The same even goes for Don's daughter. In some ways, this back half of the season has been visually playing off motifs from the first half of the season, and the concluding scene with Sally in this episode riffs off the scene where she tells her father she loves him in "A Day's Work," the season's second episode. In that episode, director Michael Uppendahl cuts to close-ups, to emphasize the intimacy of the moment between the two. (And this after a long sequence where Uppendahl has both characters' faces in frame at the same time.)

Sally tells Don she loves him. (AMC)

And Don is quietly stunned. (AMC)
But we don't get anything similar in "The Forecast." Instead, Sally is once again held at arm's length, and it's rare for her face to occupy the same frame as her father's face, which would establish a connection.
AMC
AMC
In fact, the people that Don's establishing connections with in this episode tend to be all the wrong people — like teenage girls.

Don gets a little too close to one of Sally's friends. (AMC)
That's something the story has already told us, but it's also something the filmmaking underlines three or four times. Don is perpetually going off the rails, and if those final shots of him seeming struck by something are any indication, he knows it, too. But he's also not sure what to do about it. Peggy used to give him the answer, but she doesn't any more. Sally has no use for him. Even Roger's no longer valuable to pull him deeper into hedonism. Don is all alone.
The first three episodes of this half-season of Mad Men might not be as viscerally satisfying as some of the series' finest hours, but the more I pick at them, the more I think they're cueing us up for some sort of revelation. Look at that episode title again — "The Forecast." Don keeps talking about how things will get better in this episode. They have to get better. That's how it works, right?
Look back, I think, to Peggy's Burger Chef pitch in "Waterloo." It's rightly seen as a seismic moment for the season, and it's all about connection, in the wake of a moon landing that brought everyone together. Now, however, everyone is scattered, and it's heartbreaking.
There's a line from a song by Mates of State that I've always liked, which goes, "Everything's gonna get lighter/ even if it never gets better." Sometimes, that's what life on Earth is. You're pinned here by gravity, forced to watch the unending roll of the planet that brings new light with every new morning. But the rise of the sun doesn't always bring something better. Sometimes it just reaffirms that you're in the grave you dug for yourself long ago.

The camera pulls away from Don, who is very alone. (AMC)
Is this read too gloomy, Libby? I buy you and Amanda's thoughts that Peggy and Joan (and maybe even Sally) are going to make it out of here alive — in a spiritual sense — but I'm starting to feel every single man on the show is doomed. Are there exceptions? Maybe Ted?
Read the recap, and come back tomorrow for more thoughts from Libby.
Previous entry.
Next: Libby on the show as a post-apocalyptic one
Amy Schumer has had a good year.
Fresh from hosting the MTV Movie Awards, the comedian is now celebrating the season premiere of her show Inside Amy Schumer, which airs Tuesdays on Comedy Central. And on Tuesday, April 21, the morning of the premiere, the network announced it has renewed the show for a fourth season.
If you haven't been keeping up with Schumer's meteoric rise and are curious as to how she got here, these five moments will help explain her genius:
This roast changed Schumer's career and was the first time many people (aside from devoted fans of NBC's Last Comic Standing) had heard of her. Schumer was filthy, dressing down everyone from Kate Walsh to Mike Tyson. But it's what she said about Jackass cast members Steve-O and Ryan Dunn, the latter of whom died in a drunk driving accident, that became news.
"I truly am — no joke — sorry for the loss of your friend Ryan Dunn. I know you must have been thinking, 'It could've been me.' And I know we were all thinking, 'Why wasn't it?'" she told Steve-O.
Because of her appearance at Charlie Sheen's roast, there was (and still is) a tendency to talk about Schumer in the same breath as Sarah Silverman, Chelsea Handler, and Whitney Cummings, the thought being: here are attractive women saying raunchy things.
That's not really fair to Schumer or to any of those comedians.
In Inside Amy Schumer, Schumer shows off her talent for writing great comedic sketches. She hones in on her subtle brand of feminism, one that tackles really big issues (such as the way women are taught to be self-effacing) by blowing them up in scale to hammer home their absurdity.
See above for a great example.
Schumer released this skit during the national conversation about the increase of sexual assault in the military and lack of action to curb it. In the skit, Schumer creates a female character in a military-set video game. The character is immediately raped, forced to do endless amounts of paperwork, and is smeared at her hearing. It's much more on the nose than, say, Schumer's skit on women taking compliments, but it succeeds because Schumer knows exactly when boldness is needed to make a point.
This summer, Schumer will star in a romantic comedy she wrote called Trainwreck, directed by Judd Apatow. The movie debuted at South by Southwest, and the early reviews say it's pretty good. But Schumer's acting talent was evident from her guest spots on Girls as the best friend of Adam's short-lived girlfriend Natalia (Shiri Appleby). Schumer's appearances show off her razor-sharp timing.
2014 was the year of the butt. Everyone from the New York Times to Nicki Minaj and J. Lo told us this time and time again. Enter Amy Schumer, who skewers this cultural phenomenon and makes us feel all a little bit silly (okay, sillier) for liking butts.
Twitter on Monday announced an "upgrade": a new feature that will let users send direct messages to anyone. The upgrade seems to be marketed to brands and politicians who can use direct messages to communicate with normal users, but it comes with a dark lining. It allows users to opt in to remove the element of protection that existed when only users who mutually followed each other could DM one another.
Despite repeated calls from people who have been harassed on the platform, Twitter has taken few, if any, significant steps to make the community a safer one. (However, the company announced some new features Tuesday that are a move in the right direction — more on that below.) And while this development is opt-in, this latest step — making contact easier and more private — is a glaring reminder of Twitter's priorities.
Twitter is constantly creating and deploying new features. Most of the developments, like the addition of quote tweets and animated faves, are benign. They improve user experience and don't change much about the way users interact.
How this change will actually affect people is unclear
Opening direct messages to all users is an obvious move by Twitter to try to enter into the very rapidly growing and incredibly popular field of messaging that is currently dominated by Facebook Messenger and WhatsApp, a field that's incredibly lucrative. By allowing users to message people who are not following them, Twitter allows brands to be able to message unhappy clients, journalists to be able to receive tips, and politicians to be able to campaign. The goal, Twitter said in a blog post, is to make it easier for people around the world to communicate.
But how this change will actually affect people is unclear.
This weekend, Choire Sicha wrote in the New York Times, "The actual problem [with the internet] is that none of the men running those bazillion-dollar internet companies can think of one single thing to do about all the men who send women death threats."
For years, users have been begging Twitter to change its harassment policies so that people who use the platform to write online won't be bombarded with an army of anonymous egg avatars waging threats. Twitter, more than many other social networks, is a target for harassment.
Just look at the whole Gamergate fiasco — Zoe Quinn, Anita Sarkeesian, and Brianna Wu were all threatened. After Robin Williams's death, his daughter Zelda Williams quit the network because she was being harassed so brutally. A Pew report found that almost half of women users online have been harassed.
Twitter has even admitted that it has a problem.
"We suck at dealing with abuse and trolls on the platform and we've sucked at it for years," Twitter CEO Dick Costolo wrote in an internal memo obtained by The Verge in February. "It's no secret and the rest of the world talks about it every day. We lose core user after core user by not addressing simple trolling issues that they face every day."
This admission came right after a December rollout of releases that were supposed to improve tools for reporting harassment.
This is a feature that many on Twitter cannot use because they do not want another place in their life that they have to approach with anxiety and fear
In March, Twitter attempted to improve the experience again. The platform made it easier to report harassment to local authorities just by clicking a button. These were good improvements and steps in the right direction, but Twitter admitted they were only the start of a long series of changes.
The "upgrade" announced today, though, shows that Twitter chose the opportunity to make money ahead of improving the safety of harassed and threatened groups. This is a feature that many on Twitter cannot use because they do not want another place in their life that they have to approach with anxiety and fear.
When the announcement about the change went live on CNET, people on Twitter responded in outrage. At first, there were questions about whether people could opt out (they can), then it brought to mind the many, many ways the feature could be abused.
Here are a few responses about how open DMs would change the experience of people on Twitter:

That said, given current levels of internet harassment, forcing people to accept private communications is a good way to drive them away



Trying to imagine who would want to opt-in to having everyone be able to DM them. Companies, I guess. And creepy dudes.



future twitter rollouts: - faster unwanted dick pic upload speeds - male names for female users who don't want DMs from randos - taco emoji



"allow users to receive DMs from other users regardless if they follow each other. " Not good, Twitter. http://t.co/Z7ihvJKuiz



Whether or not the new DM feature is optional, I think this still shows that Twitter doesn't have its users' safety and well-being at heart.



twitter: we have to deal w our harassment problem ... twitter: ok now anybody can dm u  http://t.co/R8YDIKSFHR


The reality is that no one has to opt in and everyone can keep their DMs exactly the way they are right now. That's a precaution that shows at least some consideration for users' safety and security.
What frustrated so many Twitter users, myself included, was that this development seems to be debuting without a clear strategy for how harassment will be handled within the new program.
According to the New York Times:
Twitter says that to protect users from unwanted messages, if a person deletes a message string from someone who is not a mutual connection, that essentially blocks the other party from sending further private messages.
When asked to comment, Twitter directed us to this blog post, which says, "We have lots more in the works to improve Direct Messages on Twitter, so that the private side of Twitter is just as fulfilling as the public side." The post links out to a page about DMs that says the only way to block and report a DM is to block and report a user. The company hasn't outlined, at least publicly, how this will work for private messages.
Twitter made the right decision making this an opt-in program, but it could have done so much more. It could have upped security protocol to make sure that users sending DMs have some accountability by requiring a phone number or a minimum time as a registered user on the site. It could have been more transparent about how exactly blocking and reporting within DMs will work, or it could have fixed any of the myriad other problems with the product.
If anything, all this "update" does is remind users who have been abused that they are not, and will not be, a priority
Twitter's block button could certainly use improving. As could the mute function, which rarely mutes anything. If you need more recommendations, we made a whole list here.
To see a company with such extreme and prevalent harassment problems greenlighting projects that have nothing to do with fixing its toxic environment is frustrating.
My faith in Twitter as a company that can or will even try to protect me from abuse has dwindled. If anything, all this "update" does is remind users who have been abused that they are not, and will not be, a priority.
Update: Twitter announced the launch of a couple of new features Tuesday morning to help people who are harassed on Twitter report abuse more easily. These include the ability to lock-out users and in some cases to require phone number verification to regain access. Though this has the potential to backfire (by abusers potentially reporting someone being abused until they are locked out) Twitter mentions that they will be monitoring these changes and "how they help ensure the overall health of a platform that encourages everyone's participation."
These, however, are retroactive changes, which is the same problem I addressed above in my critique of the new DM policy. Though this is encouraging and certainly a good step, it's one that they were forced to make.
Rose Byrne, the criminally underrated comedic spirit of Bridesmaids, appeared on The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon on Monday night to talk about her upcoming projects. And somehow, the two got to talking about Byrne's home country of Australia.
Australia, as you may know, is basically the country where nature decided it wanted to get weird. In Australia, you can stomp on a fearsome spider only to see thousands of its babies explode from its body. You can also find 19-foot snakes breaking into stores and bats falling out of the sky.
The country is also home to a creature known as the laughing kookaburra, a cackling demon in an avian costume:

(Auscape via Getty Images)
The laughing kookaburra is native to eastern Australia and eats fish. (Iggy Azalea is also from eastern Australia, but that may be neither here nor there.) The bird is known to have a "laughing" call, which Byrne demonstrates in the video above. According to the Cornell Lab of Ornithology, Byrne nails this terrible sound:

It's a call that makes you thankful kookaburras are not nocturnal. It's a call that makes you thankful you don't live in Australia — and thankful for Rose Byrne.
The iconic meeting between Elvis Presley and Richard Nixon on December 21, 1970, has drawn a lot of attention over the years. Pundits have analyzed Elvis's bizarre gifts to the president (a mounted Colt .45), his unique obsessions (Communist brainwashing), and, of course, his outfit. The meeting spawned fictional interpretations too, from Drunk History to a TV movie (and a possible future film starring Kevin Spacey as Nixon).
But beneath the sideburns, there lies a darker truth about the time Elvis and Nixon met: the King wanted to take down the Beatles.
The National Archives maintains a record of the historic meeting, and the records show the meeting notes taken by lawyer Egil "Bud" Krogh.
Elvis thought he understood hippie culture — and the Beatles were the worst example of it.
First, Elvis said, "The Beatles had been a real force for anti-American spirit." He then claimed that "the Beatles came to this country, made their money, and then returned to England where they promoted an anti-American theme."
Those comments put Richard Nixon in the atypical position of being the less-paranoid person in the conversation. Krogh writes that while the president nodded in agreement, he "expressed some surprise." The conversation quickly transitioned to general complaints about drugs and protest culture.
Elvis's anti-Beatles tirade wasn't just a one-off, either. In early 1971, Presley took a tour of the FBI offices, and had some words to pass on to J. Edgar Hoover. After calling the FBI director the "greatest living American," Presley targeted the Beatles yet again. According to notes, Elvis said that "the Beatles laid the groundwork for many of the problems we are having with young people by their filthy unkempt appearances and suggestive music." He also criticized the Smothers Brothers, Jane Fonda, and other entertainers.
Getty Images
Getty Images
The Beatles, a couple of days after they met Elvis. (Getty)
Elvis's insults in the White House are a sad coda to the relationship between the pop stars.
At best, Elvis and the Beatles had a strained relationship. There's only one well-publicized meeting between the two, which occurred on August 27, 1965 when the Beatles visited Presley in his Beverly Hills home. Some reports make the meeting sound like a lovefest (John Lennon dug the King's sideburns!) while others focus on tense moments (Paul McCartney later revealed that "I don't like [Elvis's] new stuff half as much — we told him that last night"). Most reports recount a jam session between the King and the band, though some dispute this claim.
But either way, Elvis and the Beatles never remained close after that. Their culture clash mixed with the inevitable tension between a group on the rise and a singer with an uncertain future, and the relationship frayed completely in just five years. That rapid breakdown makes Elvis's anti-Beatles stance a highlight of an already unusual meeting.

Elvis and Nixon meet. (NARA)
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and foreign policy reporter Amanda Taub. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Amanda Taub: Libby, I'm so glad you brought up Mad Men's terrible record when it comes to marriages. I agree it feels foolish to get too excited about Joan and Peggy getting lucky in love when we've seen so many marriages on the show turn out so disastrously.
On the other hand, those failed relationships were, like the rest of the show, an indictment of the dangers of placing one's faith in convention during changing times. Joan and Peggy's expectations of their relationships have changed with the times. Maybe that will give them a better chance at happiness now.
Most of the actual divorces happened not because of men's bad behavior, but because their wives stopped putting up with it
It's true that most of the Mad Men marriages were fundamentally destroyed by the terrible behavior of husbands: namely, Roger, Don, and Pete's lies and philandering, and Joan's husband Greg's failure to be, as she put it, "a good man" — an indictment that encompassed everything from raping her to running off to Vietnam to hide the fact that his career was in tatters.
But most of the actual divorces happened not because of men's bad behavior, but because their wives stopped putting up with it. The social pressure on women to endure their disappointing husbands eroded in the 1960s, and took the marriages along with it.
That erosion can be seen in the way the Mad Men wives became quicker and quicker to sever ties with their husbands. Roger's ex-wife Mona, the most old-fashioned, was willing to tough it out indefinitely. Betty, the most traditional after Mona, had clearly considered leaving Don in the past, but it wasn't until she had the prospect of marrying Henry that she took the final steps toward divorce. She was willing to be divorced, but she wasn't willing to be a single mother.
Joan thought marriage was so important that she didn't break her engagement to Greg after he raped her, and then didn't end her marriage until he had effectively abandoned her first, by re-upping with the Army without even consulting her on the decision. But she was willing to be a single mother — she didn't wait for a Henry of her own before leaving her terrible husband.
And although Trudy was younger and more decisive, even she temporarily tried to engineer a continued sham marriage in order to save face. She banished Pete from their suburban home but insisted that he still show up for Mother's Day and other important events because "I refuse to be a failure." But eventually, it wasn't enough, and she sent Pete packing to California.
The youngest Mad Men wives, however, could barely be held down in the first place. Jane took Roger on an acid trip, then calmly told him that their marriage was over. Megan moved to California alone, and when Don offered to follow her, she told him not to bother. And Roger's daughter, "Marigold," née Margaret, left not just her husband but their young son to go find herself at a commune.
But my hope is that Peggy and Joan's new relationships offer the promise of something different from all those disappointing marriages.
After all, we heard Peggy tell Don her dreams this episode, and there was nothing in them about marrying a lawyer. She might want a partner, but she won't be searching for fulfillment in the role of wife and mother. Since the beginning of the show, she has wanted other things. And while she has certainly suffered along the way, she has been steadily progressing toward her goals since the first season. It's too soon to know whether her relationship with Stevie has potential, but no matter what, there's no reason to think that she would end up like Betty, Trudy, or even Cynthia.
Likewise, although Joan was once so focused on meeting the right man that she was willing to be a living embodiment of male fantasies, this episode showed us a Joan who is laser-focused on her own priorities.
Early on, she explains to Richard that she needs to work, but not because she needs the money. Rather, it's because her work is meaningful to her: "it's the job I always wanted."
And when Richard throws a tantrum because he wants a single, unattached Joan who can satisfy his fantasies of jetting off to the pyramids at a moment's notice, she leaves. When he shows up at her office later, bearing flowers and repentance, she shames him by sarcastically stating what he's really asking of her. "I thought about what you said, and I like you too. And if I have to choose between you and my son, I choose you."
"That's not what I said," Richard protested, shocked at his subtext suddenly becoming text. (He'd better get used to that happening if he's planning to stick around the Mad Men universe.) Joan, resolute, refuses to let him off the hook. "It's exactly what you said."
Chastened, Richard offers Joan a fantasy of family outings on the Upper East Side. I'm not sure how confident I am that he'll be able to keep his selfishness in check and make Joan happy. But at least I feel confident that Joan has no intention of settling for anything less.
And in the world of Mad Men, that's as close to a happy ending as anyone can really hope for.
Read the recap, and come back tomorrow for more thoughts from Todd.
Previous entry
Next: Todd argues Mad Men has a plan for these final episodes
Daredevil's one-shot fight scene at the end of its second episode just might be our favorite fight scene in years. And the best moment of that scene doesn't even involve fighting. It shows our hero, and the men he's fighting, succumbing to exhaustion:

The scene is shot in a single take, an extremely difficult feat to pull off.

It also specifically refers to many other gauntlet-style fight scenes, like this classic scene from Oldboy (2003), which also was filmed in a single take:

What gives that distinctive scene, and Daredevil's, its true power is the way it shows how raw and damaging the fight can be. As you'll see in the video above, even superheroes get tired.

Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by culture writer Kelsey McKinney and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Andrew Prokop: Todd, I think you're spot-on that both George R. R. Martin and Game of Thrones critique vengeance as leading to an endless cycle of more and more vengeance. But this episode doesn't have a simple, moralistic message that vengeance is simply wrong and bad and that avoiding it is good. Instead, it explores just how difficult it is for even a well-meaning ruler to tamp down those impulses.
This is evident in the show's first brief scene set in Dorne, where Prince Doran Martell (Alexander Siddig) weighs how to respond to his brother Oberyn's death in King's Landing. It's worth pausing to remember — as Doran points out — that Oberyn really did get himself killed. He volunteered to fight the Mountain, perhaps the most formidable and dangerous combatant in Westeros, in a trial by combat — and he lost, fair and square. What's more, Oberyn did this because he wanted revenge for some even older murders — that of his sister Elia and her children. Look where that desire for vengeance got him.
But Oberyn's lover, Ellaria Sand (Indira Varma) — and, if we believe her, the people of Dorne — doesn't want to hear this. She and they are outraged at Oberyn's death and want bloody payback. "The whole country would have you go to war," Ellaria says. She recommends sending the fingers of Cersei's daughter back to the queen, one by one. (Here, it's also worth remembering that Oberyn assured Cersei last season that her daughter would be safe, saying, "We don't hurt little girls in Dorne.")
Appropriately, Doran is outraged by Ellaria's suggestion. "We do not mutilate little girls for vengeance," he says. "Not here. Not while I rule." But she responds: "And how long will that be?"
So while the show is acknowledging this bloody desire for revenge is quite ugly and often irrational, it's also pointing out that when people want it, it can be very hard for a ruler to deny it to them. And it will likely grow even harder when Jaime Lannister joins this volatile situation.
Burning people with dragons is a whole lot simpler than dealing with politics
Dany, too, has to choose between fairness and vengeance this week. When a seeming member of the Sons of the Harpy (the insurgent group that murdered one of Dany's soldiers in the premiere) is captured, she tries to set a new course for Meereen, vowing to give the man a fair trial. In part, this is a political strategy — Dany wants to demonstrate to the people of Meereen, former slavers and freed slaves all, that she'll be an impartial ruler.
Yet Dany also has a more personal motivation at work. As she's weighing what to do, her adviser Barristan Selmy pulls her aside and reveals a hard truth — that her father's nickname, "the Mad King," was in fact an accurate one. (Yes, despite the fact that we viewers have been hearing about the Mad King's dark deeds in other plot lines for years, no one has ever informed Dany about them.) "He murdered sons in front of their fathers. He burned men alive with wildfire and laughed as they screamed. And his efforts to stamp out dissent led to a rebellion," Selmy says.
"I'm not my father," a horrified Dany resolves. But it turns out the entrenched hatred in Meereen isn't so easy to wave away. A former slave on her council kills the prisoner, directly defying her. So to prove her impartiality, Dany feels like she must execute him for the crime he admits to. She tried to do what's right — but instead of a fair trial and a healing process, she ends up with two more dead men and a backlash from her most ardent supporters in the city, the freed slaves.
Is it any wonder, then, that when Dany's missing dragon pays her a visit at the close of this episode, she looks emotional — even intoxicated — at the prospect of being reunited with him? This dragon, recall, burned a 3-year-old girl to death at the close of season four. But burning people with dragons is a whole lot simpler than dealing with politics.
Read the recap. Kelsey will return with more thoughts tomorrow.
Previous entry
Next: Kelsey on the role of family in the show
Andrew Hozier-Byrne is a titan — musically and literally.
Since early November, Hozier's gospel-driven blues hit "Take Me to Church" has dominated American popular music with its howling chorus and soaring refrain: "amen," crooned over and over in a glorious tenor. The song hit the Billboard Top 20 on November 8 and refused to leave.
Hozier is also 6-foot-5. When he takes the stage at the Lincoln Theatre in Washington, DC, in March, wearing all denim and carrying a guitar that sparkles under the lights, he towers over the other members of his band.
A keyboardist, cellist, two backup singers, a drummer, and a multi-instrumentalist on synth and bass join Hozier on stage, but there are no guitar picks taped to the tall mic stand in front of him. He refuses to brush his fluffy mane of brown hair, writes his songs based off a feeling, and doesn't let a piece of plastic come between him and his chords.
He's a naturalist. He plucks the guitar strings with his fingers.
He's not a natural fit for the Top 40, though. "Take Me to Church" is a slow song focused on homophobia, and Hozier's set is lit with electronic candles instead of pulsing strobes. He's not a pop star, but he's made a home on the charts with artists like Taylor Swift, Nicki Minaj, and Ariana Grande.
In some ways, his success points the way to a best-case scenario — in which his popularity represents the future of music and the Top 40 has room for all genres and tones and talent.

Look at the sparkly guitar Hozier played at the Grammys this year. (Larry Busacca/Getty)
Hozier isn't a hit machine. His debut, self-titled album is solid top to bottom. In its entirety, it tells a brutal story of life and love and religion. But it doesn't sound like the albums dominating the Top 40 right now. There's not a single synthesizer present. Most of the songs are meaty, desperate, and honest about the world we live in.
Instead of the pulsing beats of Nick Jonas, Hozier has a slow, rhythmic guitar. He trades chanting Bruno Mars hooks for an urgent, calling plea. Where other artists hire songwriters to build out their hits for them, Hozier wrote his in an attic. That doesn't necessarily make his way better, but it makes it different.
"I think Top 40 radio is getting a bit more adventurous now, and I think a lot of that is due to guys like Sam Smith and Andrew," Justin Eshak, who signed Hozier to Columbia Records in the US in 2013, told me.
The Top 40 has always been variable. New genres are created and rise to fame. Rock, hip-hop, pop, and jazz all at some point managed to break through and become widely popular. What's interesting about Hozier is that he joins a smaller group of artists who seem to be drawing popular music in the opposite direction of pop — toward music that's more organic, instrumental, and emotional. Like Amy Winehouse and Adele before him, Hozier stands out on a Top 40 station because he simply doesn't sound like he belongs.
There always seems to be room for one or two bluesy soul singers in the Top 40. What's interesting about Hozier is that his hit, the amazingly catchy, overwhelmingly melancholy "Take Me to Church," isn't even the most radio-friendly song on his album. It isn't upbeat, and it certainly isn't the love songs of Sam Smith. Hozier's love songs come with an edge.
Before he played "Someone New" at his DC concert, he prefaced it with some context. "This is a love song," he said. "It's about love at its most empty and vacuous and futile."
Hozier joins a group of artists who seem to be drawing popular music in a new direction
Yes, pop music can be about those things, but not in the way Hozier's music seems to be about them. For all the richness of his throwback sound, it feels like something new, something unclassifiable. Is he modern blues? Is he gospel? Is he the future of rock?
"I think it’s hard to sum up, to be honest," Hozier explains. "I think words like 'indie gospel' work, but I don’t think it’s as simple as that. It’s blues-influenced. Maybe like a Southern gothic kind of sound or something like that. It’s difficult to give it one word."
At no point was this more obvious than when, in the post-encore section of his set, Hozier and the band diverted from his catalog to play Ariana Grande's "Problem," one of the truest pop songs there is. It's a song he and his band had worked on for BBC's Live Lounge, reimagining it in Hozier style.
To begin, Hozier led the audience to clap to create the backing beat for what is normally a pop song but on that stage became a gospel-driven, electric-guitar-heavy anthem, with Hozier adding lines like "If you smoke like I smoke / then you're high like every day," and hitting some of his highest falsettos of the night. Doing a cover like that was fun for his audience of Top 40 lovers, but it also proved just how different of an artist he is from a tiny, vocal powerhouse like Ariana Grande.
"I’m still trying to figure out why people were so drawn to it," Hozier tells me. He's talking about "Take Me to Church," but maybe what he should be questioning is why people are so drawn to him with his finger-picking and full band and dark, difficult love songs. By playing songs by blues legend Skip James and Ariana Grande in the same set, Hozier proves he's more than a one-hit wonder.

Here's a black-and-white photo of Hozier. (Gabriel Olsen/Getty)
Andrew Hozier-Byrne grew up in Ireland listening to his parents' records, mostly blues. His father was a blues musician, and so Hozier was brought up amid the wilds of the Irish countryside and the sounds of American music.
"I was raised with a lot of blues music around, and then when I was older, I just had an affection and a connection with blues music and the music that’s associated with it — jazz and soul and gospel music,"  Hozier says. "I always come back to blues music. It’s kind of my first love. "
At the show, he clears the stage to play James's 1931 song "Illinois Blues." Under a lone spotlight, the rest of the stage dark, he plucks an acoustic guitar, and it becomes obvious just how talented Hozier is. He's not just "Take Me to Church," or even his best four songs. He's a man who knows his way around a guitar. As his fingers deftly move across the strings and his voice howls, he embodies the genre he loves.
At this point in his career, Hozier's song list is sparse. There are 13 songs on his debut studio album, which was released in October 2014, plus a few early singles that didn't make the album. So to extend his show, he plays Skip James, and he thanks as many people as he can think of, including the guy out front selling T-shirts. And he tells stories.
He's not just "Take Me to Church"; He's a man who knows his way around a guitar
Before he plays "Cherry Wine," he tells the story about shooting his first press pictures in an old Irish hotel that had once caught fire. Initially, he thought the building could be the backdrop for a career built on burnt-up history, but when he arrived, the place was gutted, filled with graffiti. "Apocalypse chic," he describes it.
Out of this one experience came a song filled with heartbreak and carefully plucked guitar strings that explains an entire abusive, complicated relationship in four short minutes.
"The way that she shows me I'm hers and she's mine / open hand or closed fist would be fine / the blood is red and sweet as cherry wine," he sings.
Throughout "Cherry Wine," Hozier's voice sounds sadder, more distraught, and more exhausted than it does in the rest of the album. It's a love sonnet steeped in abuse.
"More so than the sound," Hozier told me, "I think people are invested in the lyrics. That’s very important to me."
From the deepest cuts on his album to the incredibly popular "Take Me to Church," Hozier has written every character, every morbid scene, every desperately beautiful, lyrical line. When we talk influences, he lists many — Sam Cooke, Etta James, Aretha Franklin, Tom Waits — but he stops on Nina Simone.
"When I was younger, I just had a fascination with her voice, because it was so unique, and the fiery nature of her songwriting. Just her character — she was just a real powerhouse and an uncompromising writer," he says.
Those characteristics he admires certainly carry over to his own body of work. Though he has only released one full album, he says he's not interested in creating more hits just to have hits — he wants to create songs that matter, and move, and change people. And those songs are built of his words and his voice.
His somewhat gravelly, slightly twangy Irish vocals make all of his songs identifiably his
Hozier shows off his vocal range on songs like "To Be Alone," his voice soaring into a falsetto before immediately dropping into a tenor for the bridge. But his somewhat gravelly, slightly twangy Irish vocals make all of his songs identifiably his, despite how much they seem to vary in genre at times. Another unifying characteristic: they all sound catchy and sometimes upbeat on the surface, but are actually full of somber, melancholic themes.
"I was just being as honest as possible. I was just trying to push a little bit of grace into us," he told me when we talked about "Take Me to Church." Like the rest of his songs, it's a dark story steeped in holy positivity.

Hozier performs an acoustic set during a radio show. (Mat Hayward/Getty)
Hozier was messing around when he thought of the chorus for "Take Me to Church." He took the germ of the idea up to the attic of his home.
"I wasn't expecting success," he tells me, "because it had very, very, humble beginnings." Those humble beginnings were a barely equipped studio in his attic where he wrote, arranged, and recorded most of his debut album.
Those attic vocals are still on the version of "Take Me to Church" that has become a radio sensation. They give the song a hallowed feel, as if it were a praise song sung in a cathedral all alone.
Having something to say is what made Hozier a hit
"You don’t hear voices like that really often. Here you had this young guy who was mining all of these really great influences, combining blues in that tradition with Van Morrison and kind of those different sounds," Eshak told me. "He was a young man who had a point of view, who had something to say. It wasn’t just the standard fare."
And having something to say is what made Hozier a hit.
The video for "Take Me to Church" depicts a gentle love affair between two men who are followed by masked men attempting to hurt them. One of them spends much of the video trying to hide a steel case wrapped in chain link. His efforts, however, aren't successful, and the group of men capture his lover and torture him. Hozier has said in many interviews that it is meant to be a commentary on human rights and the relationship between institutional homophobia in Putin's Russia and the statements of the church.

"The visual is so overwhelming that it’s almost difficult to listen to the song. I realized that he was an artist and not just a song," Eshak told me. "I flew to Dublin the next day."
More than 41 million people have played the video since it was uploaded in the fall of 2013. The video, with all its symbolism, brutality, and beauty, put Hozier on the map in Ireland almost a year ago.
After Eshak arrived in Dublin the fall of 2013, he heard Hozier play at a charity event in a massive hotel ballroom, generally a terrible place to hear a concert because of how bad the acoustics are and how uninvolved the audience can be. But Eshak was entranced. Hozier signed with Columbia after meeting to promote his music in the United States. In the spring of 2014, his song appeared on a Nashville alternative radio station, where it was an immediate sensation.
When people heard the song, they wanted to know what it was — it became the most Shazamed song in Nashville. (Shazam is an app that allows users to let their phone listen to a playing song and will identify the artists and title for them.)  Typically, high-performing Shazam songs follow the Top 40. "Take Me to Church" was the exception, because it went the other way.
"You had this story where you had an artist breaking in both Ireland and the southeastern part of the United States," Eshak told me.
Hozier didn't promote "Take Me to Church"; the song did the work for him. A programmer at the Nashville Top 40 radio station heard the song, saw its success on the other station, and gave it the promotion it needed to scale the charts quickly and stay there. More than 20 weeks later, "Take Me to Church" is still in the top 25 on the Billboard charts.
But ubiquity has its cost. When Hozier played "Take Me to Church" live, he was at his least passionate. Yes, every member of the audience sang along, and the glowing electric candles onstage created an appropriately holy atmosphere, but Andrew Hozier-Byrne was not into it. The heart that embodied the first half of his set was lacking.
Afterward, Hozier and the band walked off stage. He had played a 40-minute set and could have called it a night.
But after the first three minutes of the standing ovation, it was pretty obvious he'd be coming back. He didn't return to play one or two final hits though — he came back for six full songs. "Take Me to Church" was a false end to his set, but it's also a false reflection of Hozier's talent. He has so much more to offer.
Jon Stewart's final episode of The Daily Show will air Thursday, August 6, 2015, the host announced on the show Monday, April 20.
"I will be wearing a suit. I will more than likely be showered," Stewart said, before playing off the studio audience's disappointment. "I'm sorry. I'll be wearing overalls, and I won't shower."
Stewart also announced that interested fans of the show can take part in a giveaway for tickets to the final program. Proceeds will benefit the Night of Too Many Stars, which puts on an annual comedy show to raise money for autism education.
"Maybe I'll see you here on August 6, and we'll have a nice hug," Stewart said.
Stewart announced his departure from the program in February 2015. He has since said to the Guardian that the decision to leave wasn't something that hit him all at once but, rather, something he gradually became more and more aware of.
Stewart will be succeeded by comedian Trevor Noah. Comedy Central has yet to announce when Noah will start hosting, but it's customary for a late-night show to take a few months off while a new host takes over. That allows the new host to put his own spin on the program. It seems certain, however, that Noah will be on the air by the time presidential election primaries begin in January 2016.
Watch Stewart's announcement above.
The winners of the 99th Pulitzer Prizes were announced on Monday, April 20. The Pulitzer Prize is one of the highest awards given in journalism and the arts. At the presentation, Pulitzer administrator Mike Pride said that almost 3,000 entries had been reviewed to decide this year's winners.
Here are the 2015 Pulitzer Prize winners:
Gold medal for Public ServiceThe Post and Courier of Charleston, SC
Breaking News ReportingStaff of the Seattle Times
Investigative ReportingEric Lipton, New York TimesStaff of the Wall Street Journal
Explanatory JournalismZachary R. Mider, Bloomberg News
Local ReportingRob Kuznia, Rebecca Kimitch, and Frank Suraci of the Daily Breeze, Torrance, California
National ReportingCarol D. Leonnig, Washington Post
International ReportingNew York Times Staff
Feature WritingDianna Marcum, Los Angeles Times
CommentaryLisa Faulkenberg, Houston Chronicle
CriticismMary McNamara, Los Angeles Times
Editorial WritingKathleen Kingsbury, Boston Globe
Editorial CartooningAdam Zyglis, Buffalo News
Breaking News PhotographySt. Louis Post-Dispatch Photography Staff
Feature PhotographyDaniel Berehulak, freelance photographer, New York Times
FictionAll the Light We Cannot See by Anthony Doerr
Drama"Between Riverside and Crazy" by Stephen Adly Guirgis
HistoryEncounters at the Heart of the World: A History of the Mandan People by Elizabeth A. Fenn
BiographyThe Pope and Mussolini: The Secret History of Pius XI and the Rise of Fascism in Europe by David I. Kertzer
PoetryDigest by Gregory Pardio
General NonfictionThe Sixth Extinction: An Unnatural History by Elizabeth Kolbert
Music"Anthracite Fields" by Julia Wolfe
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by education reporter Libby Nelson and foreign policy reporter Amanda Taub. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Libby Nelson: Here at Vox, we believe the parts can explain the whole. Buried in every lengthy medical journal article or New Yorker story is one sentence that reduces the argument down to its essence, and that one sentence is all you need to understand the whole thing. One chart that explains Obama's economic plan. One sentence that explains what went wrong in Rolling Stone's UVA story.
And so I'm dubbing "The Forecast" The One Episode You Need to See to Understand Mad Men, the single episode that distills the show's seven seasons down to their purest essence.
As you said in your review, Todd, "The Forecast" was all about making the subtext text. The characters all but stood up and yelled the themes at the top of their lungs. (Sally literally did.) Through its weirdest plot twists — mysterious drug injections and foot-eating lawnmowers and song-and-dance routines with ghosts — Mad Men has always been very clear on what it's about. It's about changing times, about identity and reinvention, about how the past becomes the future.
Like Don Draper's sunken living room, the future is a vast empty space. Advertising is one way to fill it: it points out a void within you that you didn't even know was there, and it shows you how to fill that void. Don and Peggy's most powerful, climactic pitches target those barren spaces and fill them with something hopeful. It's not a wheel; it's a time machine. It's not a Popsicle; it's a sacrament. It's not a sad apartment emptied out by a failed marriage; it's the launching pad for a millionaire who moved on to a castle. Advertising plays on your optimism and your belief that you can become someone else, if only you buy the right tools.
It's not a sad apartment emptied out by a failed marriage; it's the launching pad for a millionaire who moved on to a castle
But in the end, as you say, Todd, you're still you. We all buy into advertising when we have a void within, and we eventually learn that it can't fill it. Applying for jobs right after college in the depths of the Great Recession, I developed a Sephora habit. Just the white glow from the display lights became a mild narcotic. I spent too much of my limited funds on makeup, buying not just eye shadow and blush but confidence, certainty, and direction. I was buying a version of myself I desperately wanted to create, purchasing a future I needed to believe would be better than the present. But I was still myself, just with more expensive lipstick.
And that's Don's dilemma. He knows the future that advertising promises is a sham. What you call love was invented by ad men to sell nylons. Happiness is only a moment before you need more happiness. And when you imagine the future, it's inevitably going to look like the past, only more so.
It has to have been deliberate that the two most confident visions for the future came from young women, extrapolating forward from a decade of change into even higher professional ambition. There was Peggy, of course, but also Sally's serious friend, whose matter-of-fact declaration that she wanted to be a senator was one of the episode's most powerful moments to me. In 1970, there was just one woman in the Senate; only two female senators had ever been elected in their own right.
Gail Collins, a New York Times columnist and the author of two books on women's history, often says she walked through doors beaten down by women about five minutes older than her, generationally speaking. Sally's friend is growing up in the world Peggy helped make. But she knows the world is changing, and her dream is a powerful reminder of how quickly some barriers fell. To Don Draper, the future might be a puzzling void. But to many of the people in Mad Men's world — not just women, but LGBT people and people of color and those who care about them — the future is unambiguously better than the past.
While we're talking about the women of Mad Men: with the departure of Mathis, I've accepted that I might never know if anything became of Stevie, Peggy's first-episode date. And I don't yet know what to think of Joan's new paramour, who could be described as Roger without their baggage.
I'm a hopeless romantic, and so I love that the series seems to be hinting at prospects for both Peggy and Joan. But there are so few good marriages on Mad Men (Ken Cosgrove's, and ...?) that I'm a little leery of the show letting their final season become a marriage plot.
What do you guys think is in their future — and in Sally's?
Read the recap, and come back tomorrow for Amanda's thoughts.
Previous entry
Next: Amanda looks at the show's take on marriage.
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by culture writer Kelsey McKinney and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back throughout the week for entries.
Todd VanDerWerff: It's interesting to hear you single out this episode as one about vengeance, Kelsey, because I had a similar thought but extended it slightly into a political arena. "The House of Black and White," I think, is about how unsatisfying compromise is, but how necessary.
One of the recurrent themes in Game of Thrones (and especially in the books it's based on) is the idea that getting revenge might feel good, but it only propagates more revenge. This is an old, old idea in fiction, but George R. R. Martin (and the writers who've turned his books into a TV series) get lots of mileage out of it.
Indeed, much of the backstory here is a complicated plot, driven by revenge, which causes resentments, which lead to further grudges, which lead to even more revenge. Even within the series itself, so much of the story spirals outward from that moment in an early episode when Catelyn Stark seized Tyrion Lannister because she suspected him of being behind the foiled murder plot against her son, Bran.
When human beings act rashly, it makes for great drama but works out poorly for them
In many ways, Game of Thrones is explicitly about the fact that when human beings act rashly, it makes for great drama but works out poorly for them. The Starks, so driven by honor and their own ideals of justice, have mostly been stamped out, while the Lannisters are going through something similar, as they slowly turn on each other. Characters like Littlefinger and Varys exploit these weaknesses for information or personal gain, while others mostly stay out of the way.
But the problem is that when you become consumed by vengeance, it's hard to see anything else. That's a story that plays out in tiny form in the Dany storyline tonight, but it also plays out in symbolic form in the Arya storyline. She sits on the steps of the House of Black and White and repeats the names of those she will have her vengeance upon, over and over, through rain and sunshine. But the words eventually start to feel like dust. It's only when she rises and throws her coin in the water, thereby symbolically tossing aside her burden, that she can begin to progress.
Now, I don't think there's any way this series ends without Arya killing at least one or two of the people on her list, just as I don't think there's any way it ends without her being reunited with her family. But in her progression to the House of Black and White, there's something real and beautiful. In order to move forward in your life in any fashion, you have to be willing to let go of things that might be holding you back. We don't yet know everything that was holding Arya back, but something tells me that her new apprenticeship at Jaqen's side will reveal this to us.
Meanwhile, there's a character who pointedly refuses to play the vengeance game, and that's Jon Snow. Stannis tries to give him what he's always wanted — the name Stark — but he refuses it, in favor of his Night's Watch brethren. This series attaches a pronounced power to the idea of names, the idea that Jaqen doesn't actually have one, or that Jon gains some degree of power from refusing the name he's always wanted.
That's all in keeping with the rest of this story of breaking a centuries-old cycle of violence and vengeance. Building a lasting peace ultimately requires the hard, hard work of figuring out compromises everyone can live with and of getting everyone to set aside their central self for a little while, in order to come up with a consensus that benefits the most possible people. But that's not as immediate or as visceral as simply sticking a sword through somebody's throat, so we keep getting swords through throats.
Or, as Dany might put it, the law is the law. It's much easier to conquer than to rule, but it's in ruling that a leader truly makes her name.
Andrew, there was a lot of political maneuvering in this episode. Toward what end? And as a book reader (like me), how do you feel about the series so boldly striking out into its own territory?
Read the recap, and come back tomorrow for Andrew's opening thoughts.
Previous entry
Next: Andrew on why burning people is easier than playing politics
The park is open.
The full-length global trailer for Jurassic World, the upcoming fourth film in the Jurassic Park franchise, has landed.
Jurassic Park movies have always featured one big, bad dinosaur. In Jurassic World, that will be a fearsome hellbeast known as  Indominus rex.
Here's the first good look at the I. rex ready to tear this place apart:

(Jurassic World)
"She was designed to be bigger than the T. rex," Dr. Henry Wu (B. D. Wong), the chief geneticist in Jurassic World, says.
We don't really get to see much more of this monster other than that shot above. But we do find out it's a genetically modified killing machine designed to be more fearsome than the T. rex. This bespoke dinosaur killed her equally fearsome sibling, and she's smart enough to tear out a tracking device.
Perhaps the scariest feature of this dinosaur: she has a memory and is holding some grudges. And she's also killing for sport:

(Jurassic World)
The Indominus rex isn't the only dinosaur doing the killing. Jurassic World imagines what it would be like if everyone in the park were under attack. We have flying dinos grabbing people in their talons and taking them to the sky:

(Jurassic World)
As well as those pesky raptors:

(Jurassic World)
There's a strange SeaWorld/Blackfish parallel to Jurassic World. There's an idea of corporate greed, a majestic animal held against its will, and the chaos that results when something that's supposed to be sterile and safe becomes a nightmare.
And just like SeaWorld has dolphin trainers to make the animals do tricks, Jurassic World has what appears to be a raptor trainer named Owen Grady (Chris Pratt):

(Jurassic World)
In the trailer, Grady acts as the narrator. He's explaining the mindset of the dinosaurs, what they do, and what they're going to do next. Because he's pretty knowledgeable, he's also tasked with finding and taking the Indominus rex. And to do so, he employs his raptors:

(Jurassic World)
"These animals are thinking 'I gotta eat. I gotta hunt. I gotta …'" Grady says before pantomiming dinosaur intercourse. "You gotta be able to relate to at least one of those things."
Jurassic World will be released by Universal Pictures on Friday, June 12, 2015.
Stay tuned; we'll be updating this post with thoughts.
Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the previous episode of Mad Men over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. Keep checking in all week long for new entries.
Todd VanDerWerff: The more I read pieces around this great internet of ours about the final half-season of Mad Men, the more I sense a slowly building panic. Next week is the halfway point of this set of seven episodes, and we really have no idea what the final story of the series is going to be.
At least the first half of the season was united by Don's desperation to get his job back. This season is, so far, about pretty much nothing at all. The episodes have mostly been united by a slowly growing existential malaise and ennui, a sense that this is all there is.
I would caution those who are terrified that this is a pretty common strategy for Mad Men to employ. There have been so many times that the series pulled some plot rabbit out of a character-driven hat, and I've been quietly knocked back on my heels by what the show had been building to all along. The most famous example of this might be season six, which seemed like a meandering series of stories about how Don could never change, until the tremendous final two episodes, in which that quality became a noose around his neck.
So I think there's every chance that Matt Weiner and company are building something profound that we just don't see yet. But I'm also starting to wonder if the series finale of Mad Men was actually the midseason finale, "Waterloo," in which Don got everything he wanted, only to realize how little any of it meant. That episode is, in most ways, the end of the story of these characters. There are so few loose ends left to tie up, and it even concludes with a big song-and-dance number.
Now, ending your show with seven episodes left in your run is the sort of thing that doesn't seem likely to ingratiate yourself to audiences. And if, indeed, that's what Weiner is up to, even I, a man who never met an audience-alienating story gambit he couldn't force himself to like, would find that more satisfying intellectually and conceptually than emotionally. Deep down, I want closure. But I also know that's not how life, or this show, operates.


Deep down, I want closure. But I also know that's not how life, or this show, operates.


Think of how many times in your life you've come to some sort of climactic moment or triumph, only to wake up the next morning and realize that life goes on. We tend to use that phrase in times of grief or mourning, reminding ourselves that the world keeps turning even if it seems to have stopped for us. But the same is just as true of when we accomplish something major. We might graduate from school or finish a major project or lose a lot of weight, but we're still us. We can never really escape that simple fact.
In their own way, I wonder if these episodes of Mad Men aren't trying to capture that feeling. The audience wants a feeling of finality, but what we're getting is the feeling that comes after finality, the cold dawn of the morning after when you realize that what you were chasing was a phantom that could never bring true happiness. These characters are hoping for something to break, for revelation to crest and break over them in a torrent. But they're realizing that no matter what they do, they're still stuck with themselves.
That would be an incredibly grim way to end a show that's been, all things considered, a mostly joyful experience. And if you asked me to put money on it, I'd still bet on scenario A — that Weiner and pals are building toward something we just can't see yet. (If that's the case, then they may find themselves running out of runway very soon.)
But I still think there's the chance that this is a quieter, more muted ending, the story of everything that comes after the big moment. Bert Cooper's final song has ended, Don Draper's job is safe, and Peggy Olson is on her way to greatness. But they're still themselves, still hobbled by the same insecurities and capable of the same tiny moments of grace.
Is that all there is?
What do you guys think? And are you as jazzed about the latest episode, "The Forecast," as I am?
Read the recap, and come back later today for more thoughts.
Previous episode's discussion
Next: Libby says this episode explains Mad Men


Every week, Todd VanDerWerff will be joined by two of Vox's other writers to discuss the latest episode of Game of Thrones over the course of that week. Check out the recap for this episode here, and follow the whole discussion here. This week, Todd is joined by culture writer Kelsey McKinney and politics writer Andrew Prokop. Come back later today for thoughts from Todd and Andrew.
Kelsey McKinney: After a slow-paced premiere featuring lots of setup, "The House of Black and White" hits the gas. There are six (!) major storylines happening in this episode, scattered across the series' vast world. Characters we missed last week (like Arya!) rejoin the story, but we peek back in on almost every other major plot line. It's jam-packed.
One of my favorite aspects of Game of Thrones is the list Arya endlessly repeats to herself whenever she is in distress or just has a spare moment, really. Over and over, she intones the names of all the people she hopes to kill because they have harmed her or her family. The list is one part mission statement and one part coping mechanism, a way for her to order her life so she can move past some of the terrible traumas she has experienced.
And yet Arya's list is one of the few grudges on the show not immediately being acted upon. In season three and four, Arya spent a good chunk of time with "the Hound," who had been on her list, but she didn't kill him herself. (She instead left him to die.)
What really drives the personal and political agreements in Westeros and abroad are personal grudges
Arya's bucking the trend. More than alliances or desire to sit on the Iron Throne, what really drives the personal and political agreements in Westeros and abroad are personal grudges.
The most obvious example in this episode is Sansa Stark's chance meeting with Brienne of Tarth. After a miserable engagement to King Joffrey and a forced marriage to Tyrion (that was later dissolved), Sansa spent the second half of last season with her Aunt Lysa and Littlefinger. Now she's traveling somewhere (yet to be revealed) with the latter, after he killed Lysa and Sansa helped him cover it up.
Why anyone trusts Littlefinger is absolutely beyond me. His constant manipulations of the larger political picture seem primarily driven to benefit him, and though he is strangely affectionate with Sansa, it is almost impossible for me to believe he has her best interests in mind. Sansa seems almost willfully oblivious to this. She seems to almost see Littlefinger as her savior, which is made even more frustrating when Brienne, who actually could be her savior, encounters Sansa in an inn.
Brienne tells Sansa she was a guard for Catelyn Stark, Sansa's mother. But Sansa rebuffs Brienne, not for the somewhat logical reason that many of the people Brienne has been sworn to protect have died (or at least lost one of their hands), but for the fact that Brienne was invited to Joffrey's wedding.
This is at least a little illogical. Many powerful citizens of the Seven Kingdoms were invited to Joffrey's wedding. But Sansa's grudge seems to be part of the theme showrunners (and writers of this episode) David Benioff and D. B. Weiss are trying to communicate: personal vendettas and grudges are what run this entire world. Nothing is truly political unless it is also personal. Nothing changes unless someone pays.
Throughout the rest of this episode, personal offenses take precedence over smart actions. Cersei sends Jaime all the way to Dorne to spirit their daughter out of there. The Dornish could easily construe this as an act of war, potentially disastrous for a kingship that seems to be running out of energy, troops, and unification. But Cersei is frightened for Myrcella's life — and still upset the girl was taken from her.
In Dorne, meanwhile, Ellaria Sand (Oberyn's lover) has built up a hatred for the Lannisters so great that she tries to convince Oberyn's brother to cut off each of Myrcella's fingers and send them to the Lannisters one by one.
Every marriage, every battle, and every argument on this show may seem political, but they rarely are. Almost everything in Game of Thrones is personal.
Read the recap, and come back later today, as Todd discusses the role of vengeance in the series.
Previous episode's discussion
Next: Todd on the crushing weight of vengeance

After a slow setup premiere, Game of Thrones kicks season five into high gear in the second episode "The House of Black and White." HBO's hit show based off of George R. R. Martin's Song of Ice and Fire series is getting more interesting and more unique than ever before. Showrunners David Benioff and D. B. Weiss continue to develop plot lines not in the books and create characters who will transform the show into its own story.
Now that the show has moved out of the premiere, it begins to kick off some of the major undertones of season five. They're also the moments everyone will be talking about (spoilers ahead).
The first dramatic scene of "The House of Black and White" takes place in a pub. Brienne of Tarth, who swore to Catelyn Stark that she would take care of her daughters, has been romping around the Westeros hillside in quest of Sansa after discovering Arya and killing the Hound at the end of season four.
Lucky for her, she runs right into Sansa Stark with Littlefinger, one of the most manipulative men in Westeros and Sansa's current traveling companion, while the two are in a pub. Brienne pledges herself wholeheartedly to protect Sansa, but is brutally criticized by Littlefinger, who reminds Brienne that not one of the people she swore to protect lived.
Ultimately, though, Sansa doesn't decide to leave with Littlefinger because she doesn't believe Brienne could protect her. Instead, what motivates her choice is a deep grudge she continues to hold against the former King Joffrey.
HBO
Arya (Maisie Williams) may repeat her list of names every night, but she seems less and less likely to act on it. (HBO)
Despite the fact that Arya Stark is one of the best characters on Game of Thrones, the premiere of season five completely ignored Arya's plot line. We left her at the end of season four traveling across the Narrow Sea, and in "The House of Black and White" she returns to the forefront of the plot.
Now in an unfamiliar land, Arya attempts to fight two men on the street who harass her after being denied access to the House of Black and White. Once she pulls her beloved sword, Needle, the man from the House of Black and White appears behind her, and they scatter in fear. The man watching Arya Stark sees her do this and reveals himself to be none other than Jaqen H'ghar, Arya's old face-changing friend.
Jon Snow, king of moping, has been injected with a new sense of life in season five. At the end of the season premiere, Jon took one of the first personal actions we had seen in almost two seasons when he shot an arrow into the heart of the burning King Beyond the Wall.
In "The House of Black and White," though, Jon Snow's plot line was one of the fastest-moving and most involved. My co-worker Andrew Prokop wrote that the show was a bit behind on Snow's plot line and crammed a lot into this episode to make Snow's story work. This feels true. The scenes with Jon move quickly, and before the episode is over he's been voted in as the leader of the Night's Watch. And he certainly seems willing to reign justly.
HBO
HBO
Daenerys Targaryen is ready for action. (HBO)
Daenerys Targaryen, the last Targaryen and mother of dragons who is currently working her way across Essos freeing slaves, stands for justice. She refuses to make decisions that compromise her morals even when they are probably the most politically stable decisions to make. In this episode, Daenerys's strict following of justice loses her the support and love for the people she's ruling in Meereen.
After one of her Unsullied was killed in a brothel in the series premiere, the Son of the Harpy who killed him is arrested and put in prison, but before she can give him a fair trial, a former slave kills him in his cell. This is an act strictly against the justice system she has implemented in all of the cities she rules. As such, she sentences the former slave to death and has his head cut off in front of the city.
This, of course, doesn't go over well among the thousands of former slaves who live in the city and beg her for mercy. But Khaleesi has never been interested in mercy. It's a moment that reminds viewers just how difficult it is to be a ruler and a moral person, but also that Daenerys has a little more Dothraki in her than we might think.

Jaime Lannister and Cersei decide to go get Myrcella (HBO)
What seems like forever ago, Cersei and Jaime Lannister's daughter Myrcella was shipped across Westeros to Dorne to be promised to the prince as a kind of treat. At the time, Cersei was miserable about this and furious at her father, Tywin, for insisting this happen. Now that Tywin is dead and Tyrion is missing, Cersei begins planning to retrieve Myrcella from Dorne and return her to King's Landing.
Her decision to get Myrcella comes after a threatening note arrives from Dorne, which is paired with scenes in Dorne that show that Ellaria Sand, paramour of the late Oberyn Martell, would love nothing more than to use the young princess as a way to take revenge on Cersei.
The episode ends with Jaime Lannister on another quest around the world— this time, to save his only daughter.
Correction: A previous version of this piece misspelled Khaleesi and Cersei; our apologies to these strong ladies.
Previous episode
Next episode
Fox has been waiting nearly three months to release its official trailer for The Fantastic Four. But because of a leak, it had to release the trailer a day early. This isn't unlike what happened to Avengers: of Ultron back in October and, more recently, Batman v. Superman: Dawn of Justice last Thursday.
So Fox pulled the trigger on Sunday, releasing a much darker, grittier take on Marvel's first family than the Jessica Alba–led films of the early 2000s. Here are some of the key moments from the trailer:

(Fox)
The teaser trailer released in January didn't really give a good look at the film's villain, Victor Domashev (Tony Kebbell), who is known in the comic books as Dr. Doom.
In this trailer, however, we see much more of Domashev/Doom, sporting his trademark green cloak and metal features. His face looks more like organic metal skin — notice the veiny markings and wrinkles — than it does in the comic books, where Doom sports more of mask:

Avengers World No. 16. (Marvel)

(Fox)
In this GIF, you see the Invisible Woman (Kate Mara) using a force field to protect herself while crushing some big shipping containers. That's a lot more than what we had previously seen, and a true interpretation of her comic book powers. It should also assuage people's fears that the Invisible Woman would be written as the kind of human swoon she was when Jessica Alba was portraying her.
We also see a bit more of Human Torch (Michael B. Jordan):

(Fox)
And The Thing (Jamie Bell):

(Fox)
Though the trailer doesn't really explain why The Thing doesn't wear pants:

(Fox)

(Fox)
When the Fantastic Four comic book was created, the United States was in the middle of the space race. And many writers in the comic book industry treated this idea of space exploration with a sense of wonder and optimism.
That's changed a bit in this trailer, where you get the sense that the film might be more skeptical of the government. The shot above shows Reed Richards's (Miles Teller) arm strapped down, suggesting he's being held against his will or experimented on. There's also another part in the trailer in which Dr. Franklin Storm (Reg E. Cathey) is asking where his children are, giving the impression that they could be somewhere in another dimension, but are just as likely being held and observed by the government.

(Fox)
Even though The Fantastic Four seems to fall into the genre of dark, moody, superhero films, it looks like there will at least be slivers of slapstick. After all, Teller and Jordan really shine when they're playing comedic roles.

(Fox)
Back when Michael B. Jordan's casting was announced, some comic fans said some pretty ignorant, racist stuff. In the comic books Johnny Storm is white, as is his sister, Susan, and their father, Franklin.
There was a question (and anger from those racist comic fans) of how Jordan's casting would be written into the storyline. Never mind that coming from a biracial family is very much a reality for a lot of Americans.
You'll notice that Reg E. Cathey, better known as Freddy from House of Cards, is playing Franklin Storm, making both father and son black characters. It's a stark reminder of how rare it is to see black superheroes, and even rarer to see the parents of black superheroes.
We've seen Spider-Man movie after Spider-Man movie with Aunt May and Uncle Ben, Thor movies with Odin and Frigga, and even Tony Stark's father in the Iron Man films. These characters help superheroes learn their morals and find their good. And it's about time we see those messages, that goodness, come from someone whose son doesn't look like Marvel's current crop of heroes, and from a parent who doesn't look like those heroes' parents.
Characters on Mad Men are always making the subtext into text, taking a moment to make sure the audience gets whatever is the theme of that week's episode. We talked about this back when the midseason premiere aired. But the episode that aired April 19, "The Forecast," was particularly heavy-handed in this regard. Every other line, seemingly, was filled with portent and doom — both for what awaits the characters and for what awaits the show with just four episodes left in its run.
But where this could have been a weakness on other series, "The Forecast" turned it into a strength. These characters are living through times when saying exactly what they're thinking is the most appropriate response to what's happening. People are heading to Vietnam. Sterling Cooper & Partners is trying to come up with a vision for the future. And Don finds himself cast adrift yet again, without much of a plan for what comes next.
Characters on Mad Men are always making the subtext into text
That's why "The Forecast" is the strongest episode of this half-season so far and the first episode of this batch to feel like vintage Mad Men. It makes me much more certain that Matthew Weiner and company know exactly where they're headed, even if Don and his friends don't.
Let's look at five times the characters of Mad Men said exactly what they were thinking, to terrific effect.
Ted Chaough (Kevin Rahm) has high hopes for the future. They involve landing the business of a pharmaceutical corporation.
AMC
The explicit theme of "The Forecast" is what's coming, the world the Mad Men characters anxiously anticipate, even as we know exactly what it holds. In one of the most telling moments of the episode, Joan's young son, Kevin, watches an early episode of Sesame Street, which launched in late 1969. The world of Mad Men looks ever more like our world. We might know more than the characters about what's coming — but not as much as we once did.
Don, assigned to write a speech Roger can deliver to the heads of fellow McCann subsidiaries, asks essentially everybody he comes into contact with what they want from the future in this episode, but most of the answers he gets aren't what he's looking for.
Levelheaded Ted, for instance, simply sees the future as one where business just keeps getting better and better. His biggest dream, in his heart of hearts, is to make ads for a pharmaceutical company, because that's one of the biggest paydays in all of advertising.
Don, however, is after something larger, something more metaphysical, even if he doesn't know how to explain that to anyone, perhaps even himself. Business might keep getting better and better, but Don's soul feels more and more like his apartment — utterly empty and up for sale.
Joan (Christina Hendricks) finds herself falling for an older man named Richard (Bruce Greenwood).
AMC
The one significant new introduction this episode is an older man named Richard, played by the great Bruce Greenwood. He romances Joan, then finds their relationship fraying over the fact that Joan has a four-year-old son and he thought he had put the child-rearing portion of his life behind him. (And if that sounds a little bit like Roger — the biological father of Joan's child, even if nobody knows it — that's probably intentional.)
Richard thinks happiness equals being able to do whatever you want. But, like just about every other Mad Men character, he's learning that absolute freedom is very different from being happy. Sometimes you meet somebody you want to be more than just an acquaintance, and that inevitably complicates things.
To a real degree, Mad Men is about the careful navigation of letting other people into your life, the way that you have to make room for them if you're ever going to accommodate both their needs and your own. Don is the main character because he still hasn't quite figured this out, not even with his own children. He tries, and he tries, and he tries again, but he almost always fails.
Contrast that with Richard, who ultimately decides to let both Joan and her son into his life (after she's said she'll send the kid away so that she can spend more time with Richard!). "I don't wanna be rigid," Richard says. "It makes you old." And yet what he's talking about — settling down so that he can be with a woman he's infatuated with — is something Don, who runs away from everything he encounters, might blanch at. This final set of episodes keeps using characters — like Ken and Diana — to look at Don in relief. Richard is just the latest example of this.
Peggy (Elisabeth Moss) really would love for Don (Jon Hamm) to give her a performance review.
AMC
The longer the series goes on, the more Don turns to Peggy in his hours of need. He's asked her so many times for wisdom, though rarely as directly as he does when he asks what the future holds. And she usually points him toward something resembling an answer.
Not here, though. For Peggy, the best the future could hold is further professional advancement and fame. She wants to be the creative director of the agency. She wants to land a big account. She wants to invent a catchphrase everybody knows. She's not content to simply break ground; she wants to build the Peggy Olson Memorial Advertising Center atop that ground.
But for Peggy, professional advancement can be the goal because it's never come easily. She's been underestimated by so many people at every turn, and even now in her position of power, she has to confront those who snicker at her, like the juvenile sexists in the midseason premiere.
For Don, to whom most everything comes easily and for whom the rise has been stratospheric, the questions are more existential. And there, Peggy can't help him. Her professional hunger has become her meaning, in a way it never quite could for Don. And so he remains without answers.
Don (Jon Hamm) fires Mathis (Trevor Einhorn, center) after things go south in a client meeting because of what Mathis said.
AMC
The irony here, of course, is that Don has come through so much. He grew up in extreme poverty. He went to war. He's lost friends and lovers and colleagues. He may be rich, but that hasn't made him happy. He still has so much in his past that remains unresolved, has to remain unresolved.
So it's not entirely accurate for Mathis, one of those characters who's been on the extreme edges of the show for a while now, to lash out at Don like this. But it's also not entirely inaccurate. Don is helped immeasurably by the cool figure of mystery he cuts in a suit. His past might have shaped and defined him, but it's also made him someone capable of gliding through just about any situation, seemingly unperturbed.
What ruffles him is the sense, deep down, that he's still that scared kid who went to war and stole another man's identity. And if you look at the first section of that clause, you'll note it also refers to Glen Bishop, who arrives in this episode's clumsiest storyline to tell Betty and Sally that he's shipping off to Vietnam.
Mad Men has often used Glen, the Drapers' former neighbor, as a weird, little-kid foil for Don and occasional comic rival for Betty's affections. But now he's grown up, and that means he'll be thrown into the midst of so much death. Betty's certain Glen will survive. Sally is apoplectic. But Don, who owes so much of his life to the death of a wartime comrade, might tell the kid that little is assured and it's all random. Something tells me Glen might find that the most comforting wisdom he could receive.
After he flirts with one of her friends, Sally (Kiernan Shipka) tells off her father.
AMC
There's been a lot of talk in the last few weeks about whether Don can actually change as the series reaches its endpoint. But I think that talk is mostly wrongheaded, and "The Forecast" proves it. Don, see, has already changed because he's come to realize that there's no demarcating line in his life between Dick Whitman, the man he was, and Don Draper, the man he became. He is both. He will always be both.
The realization, slowly but surely, has been aided by two women in his life — Peggy, whom he took on as a mentee and learned so much from, and Sally, who has questioned everything he knew to be true about himself, because she's his daughter and that's what children do.
As "The Forecast" concludes, Sally throws at Don a version of the life he actually led — the one where he took a train far, far away from the people who raised him and the brother who missed him. But he answers with the cold realization that it didn't matter. He is Dick Whitman. He will always be Dick Whitman. But that might be just what he needs to be in order to be the father his daughter needs.
You can't escape your past. You can't escape your parents. You can't escape yourself. You are a series of shards or fragments, and you will never reassemble yourself if you try to leave too many of them out. Don, thank goodness, is finally realizing this. It could make all the difference.
Sally (Kiernan Shipka) looks askance as her father seemingly flirts with her friend.
AMC
Comments are open, once again, and I'll be dropping in for an hour and a half, starting at noon Eastern time, to chat about this episode or anything else you might be curious about in the world of culture.
New episodes of Mad Men air Sundays at 10 pm Eastern on AMC. Previous seasons are available on Netflix. Come back later today for Todd's conversation with other Vox writers about the latest episode.
Read our complete coverage of the final season.
Previous episode
Next episode
Dr. Mehmet Oz often appears on his popular show to promote new health products and devices. Most viewers are likely under the impression that he's doing this because he's closely considered their merits and decided the products are widely beneficial.
But newly leaked emails suggest that business considerations — not health or science — can be a driving factor in which products Oz decides to promote.
Last week, WikiLeaks released a series of emails sent between Dr. Oz, his staff, and executives at Sony (one of his show's producers). They shed some light on how Dr. Oz's daily talk show works behind the scenes.

The making of Dr. Oz — how an award-winning doctor turned away from science and embraced fame
Dr. Oz launches his counterattack against the doctors questioning his credibility

In a January 2014 email, for instance, Dr. Oz reaches out to Michael Lynton, the CEO of Sony Entertainment, about his interest in wearable fitness and health tracking devices.
"I have  been carefully following the wearable device market and am pretty close  to consummating a longer term relationship, but just saw the piece below  quoting Kaz Hirai [the president and CEO of Sony] and realized that Sony is moving into the space as  well," Oz writes in an email. "We should leverage the Sony-driven success of our TV show into  other arenas where Sony thrives, like health hardware." The email suggests Dr. Oz is planning to use his platform on the show to help expand Sony's fitness and health tracking devices market. Oz doesn't mention health considerations. He mostly seems excited about the business synergy with Sony,  one of the producers of his show.
It's worth recalling that Oz has built a massive international audience as a  man of medicine, even trademarking the moniker "America's Doctor." But the  Sony correspondence suggests that behind the scenes, Oz is often concerned with more than just the health of his viewers — there's also the  financial health of one of the show's producers to consider.
There were also a number of revealing emails about Oz's  testimony before a Senate commerce subcommittee hearing last June,  during which Sen. Claire McCaskill admonished Oz for promoting  bogus health claims. One email suggested Sony was concerned the hearing might compromise future business prospects around Oz.
In this correspondence,  Keith Weaver, ‎executive vice president for worldwide government  affairs at Sony, writes: "Dr. Oz has not entered into a paid sponsorship  arrangement to date, but would like to explore doing so in the future. We have apprised the appropriate parties of the risks associated with  the future plans, as well as specific criticisms of Dr. Oz's role in the  national conversation about health that could emerge in the hearing or  in subsequent coverage."
Dr. Oz sounds a lot different under oath than he does on his TV show. Subscribe to Vox on YouTube.
Other documents revealed that representatives of the Dr. Oz Show met with McCaskill's office before Oz's appearance at the hearing. Those staffers weighed whether Oz should make the appearance. According to one email, it was Oz who pushed to appear despite concerns at another of the show's producers, Harpo, about the potential negative public relations fallout."we should not give the media who looks at Oz like [a] snake oil  salesman right now any fodder"
"It's also worth noting for the record that Harpo's  counsel is not in  favor of Oz participating, especially when he's not  legally obligated  to do so," wrote Denise Beaudoin, the legal and  business affairs  counsel to The Dr. Oz Show, in an email.   "They do not see the value of getting involved unless compelled by   subpoena because there's always the potential for downside (no matter   how slight)."
Other WikiLeaks emails showed that Oz's PR team was worried about any publicity that could make the TV star look like a  charlatan at a time when he was already under fire. As Sheraton Kalouria, chief marketing officer at Sony Pictures Television, wrote in an email,  "We feel we should not give the media who looks at Oz like [a] snake oil  salesman right now any fodder to further this perception."In a phone conversation on Sunday night, Oz declined to answer Vox's questions about the specifics of the emails.
"The House of Black and White," the latest episode of Game of Thrones, had several surprises for readers of George R. R. Martin's books.
One long-awaited scene — Jon's election as Lord Commander of the Night's Watch — did, in fact, show up, though in a form that was changed significantly from the page. But other plot lines were invented from scratch, with little clue as to where they're leading — Brienne finds Sansa! Jaime is going to Dorne!
Here's an explanation of the biggest differences between the books and the show in episode two.

"Wow, I sure am lucky to have randomly stumbled upon both missing Stark girls over the past three episodes." (HBO)
The biggest divergence from the books in this episode occurs near its beginning — when Brienne and Podrick luckily stumble upon Sansa Stark, whom they've been searching for since mid-season four, in an inn. Unluckily for them, Sansa concludes that she's better off hanging around with Littlefinger than being rescued by a woman who was invited to King Joffrey's wedding. After a fight, Brienne and Podrick barely manage to get out alive.
This sequence is entirely invented for the show. Book Brienne spends the whole of Martin's fourth volume searching for Sansa but never finds her. (Indeed, she never even comes close, as she's looking in the wrong kingdom entirely.) Brienne's quest contains some of Martin's best character work and thematic material, as she gets an up-close view at how badly the war has devastated the people of Westeros. But, understandably, many readers found it a bit frustrating that Martin depicted what they knew to be a wild goose chase at such great length, and so much of Brienne's material on the page is so internal that it could be difficult to adapt it for screen.
HBO
Show Arya does not eat a worm out of a talking skull to gain entrance to this building. (HBO)
Arya Stark, missing from the premiere, returns this episode, in hopes of beginning a new career in a new town. At first, she's turned away from the House of Black and White. But after the man answering its door later sees her intimidate some local punks, he changes his mind — and his face, to that of Arya's old friend Jaqen H'ghar. It's not entirely clear whether this face-changing man is Jaqen or whether he's just taken on his appearance, but the upshot is that Arya sees a familiar face, and fans get to see a popular actor (Tom Wlaschiha) return.
In the books, Arya goes to the House of Black and White, but there's no Jaqen to be found. The man who answers the door reveals his face to be "a skull with a few scraps of skin still clinging to the cheeks, and a white worm wriggling from one empty eye socket." Arya, unintimidated, plucks out the worm from his eye, before he reveals the whole thing is an illusion, and reverts to a more ordinary appearance. "No one has ever tried to eat my worm before," he tells her, before letting her inside.

The book Night's Watch isn't foolish enough to make a mere plurality vote decisive — it requires a two-thirds majority for victory. (HBO)
In the books, the Night's Watch's attempts to choose a new leader are deadlocked through several rounds of balloting, with many different contenders (but not Jon) in play at various points. Eventually it's Sam Tarly who brings things to a close by demonstrating a surprising amount of political cunning — he separately lies to two rival contenders to trick them into throwing their support behind Jon as a surprise compromise candidate.
The show is a bit behind on Jon's material (this stuff is from the end of book three), so it hits the gas to speed forward. In this episode, there was just one round of balloting and no political trickery. Sam's intervention is still crucial, but it's only through a speech placing Jon into contention. And old Maester Aemon casts the tiebreaking vote — making Jon, as pretty much everyone expected, officially the man in charge of the Night's Watch.

Jaime's plan to go to Dorne does not seem very well thought out. (HBO)
Jaime Lannister's plotline in this episode is another major divergence from the books. After Cersei receives what seems to be a threatening message from Dorne — the kingdom Jaime and Cersei's daughter Myrcella was sent to back in season two — Jaime volunteers to sneak into the country to bring Myrcella back, and it looks like he's bringing Bronn, everyone's favorite sellsword, with him.
In the books, no threat arrives. Cersei does decide that she wants to retrieve her daughter, but she sends another member of the Kingsguard to do it, and it's not a secret mission. Jaime does leave the capital, but he instead heads off to tie up some loose ends from the war in the Riverlands. Bronn, meanwhile, hasn't been seen since he bid farewell to the imprisoned Tyrion in book three. But he's the focus of an amusing subplot in A Feast for Crows — Cersei keeps trying to arrange his assassination, and her efforts not only fail but end up making him even more powerful.

"We don't hurt little girls in Dorne." —Oberyn Martell, season four. (HBO)
This episode gives viewers their first glimpse of Dorne, as Ellaria Sand, paramour of the late Oberyn Martell, presses the ruling Prince Doran to avenge his brother. She even gruesomely suggests cutting off Myrcella's fingers and sending them back to the Lannisters, one by one.
Much of this dialogue is drawn from the books — but there, it's Oberyn's daughters who are so desperate for vengeance. The Ellaria of the books, instead, gives an emotional speech urging the Dornish to break the cycle of revenge. "Oberyn wanted vengeance for Elia. Now the three of you want vengeance for him," she says. "Is that how it goes, round and round forever? Where does it end?" So it's clear the Ellaria of the show has a dramatically different personality. The absence and apparent cutting of certain other Dornish characters, like Doran's daughter Arianne, is also noteworthy.

Dany has great respect for the legal process. (HBO)
In this episode, Dany's forces capture a member of the Sons of the Harpy insurgency that opposes her rule. But, before he can be brought to trial, a member of her council — a former slave — murders him. To demonstrate her fairness, Dany decides to publicly execute the murderer. The freed slaves of Meereen are not happy, and the situation starts to get out of hand.
It's a dramatic moment that seems to directly parallel a dilemma Robb Stark faced in season three, when one of his lords killed two prisoners in his custody, for revenge, leading to Robb beheading the man. This one, though, isn't from the books. Book Dany, in fact, never manages to capture a proven member of the Sons of the Harpy (who, in the books, don't wear easily identifiable masks that can also be used to incriminate them). She's never faced with defiance from a slave in her counsel, either. This seems to be an attempt to add some bloody drama to one of Martin's plot lines that faced criticism for its lack of action. The visit from Drogon that closes the episode is also invented — perhaps as a reminder to viewers that one of Dany's dragons is still out there, on the loose.
Previous episode
Next episode