
“The Spoils of War” is the kind of episode Game of Thrones fans live for. You’ll sit through the talky episodes, or the bland scenes with lots of exposition, or even the enjoyable buddy comedy adventures of certain pairings — but you know you’re going to get to the big stuff eventually. And almost every time it hits one of these massive episodes, Game of Thrones delivers.
I’ve spent much of season seven feeling as if the series was holding something back. Indeed, the last couple of episodes seemed to be trying to conserve the show’s budget, which I theorized was being held back for some massive setpiece later in the season. Well, the last 15 minutes of “Spoils” delivered on that front and then some.
There was fire! There was chaos! There was heroism! There was a dragon! There was surprisingly adept action filmmaking from a man whose most prominent credit is directing 44 episodes of It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia! And it all climaxed with the tease that Jaime Lannister himself might die. (Though, c’mon, Jaime’s not dying because he drowned.)
The episode was, in short, a whole lot of fun and a bountiful cornucopia of Game of Thrones goodness. Yes, it will primarily be defined by that concluding battle between Daenerys’s and Cersei’s respective forces, but even the earlier scenes, which were largely the talky, exposition-filled scenes that have been so prevalent this season, had a spring in their step.
With that in mind, here are 11 winners and no losers from “The Spoils of War” — because we’re all winners here.
The most obvious comparison point for “The Spoils of War” is “Hardhome,” the best episode of Game of Thrones’ fifth season, which similarly started with a series of scenes checking in on characters around the show’s universe, then transitioned to a lengthy battle scene. In that case, Jon Snow and his Night’s Watch companions battled with the White Walkers, and Jon had his first real showdown with the Night King.
That makes it all the more intriguing that the series has paired its big ice battle with a big fire battle, set in the midst of a battlefield that Dany’s forces have laid waste to. There are sequences and shots in the midst of this battle that capture the surreal hell that would be a war fought with gigantic, reptilian beasts that can breathe literal fire.
But it’s worth talking about this sequence from a character perspective as well. After being soundly beaten back in the past two episodes, Dany wins a major victory here and destroys the Lannister army, reducing much of it to ash.
I’m not entirely sure what the series is attempting to say with the argument that Dany needed to be personally responsible for her army in order for it to win, or how it’s attempting to contrast her with Cersei (who remains safely ensconced in the Red Keep), but the implication is clear: Daenerys Targaryen isn’t someone who can win by hiding in a massive fortress. She needs to be in the heat of battle, even if she risks injury or death.
We also haven’t really seen the Dothraki on the battlefield very much over the course of the series. “Spoils” convincingly paints them as an absolutely terrifying force of nature — so numerous in number that it’s impossible to stand against their oncoming rush, and so ruthlessly efficient in how quickly they can kill you. At one point, a Dothraki warrior leans off his horse to cut off the foot of Bronn’s horse, and that seems like a succinct encapsulation of their fighting style. Just when you think you’ve figured out a winning strategy, they’ll find a way around it.
While everybody else on Team Lannister is gobsmacked at how thoroughly they’ve been battered by a dragon, Bronn is the guy who makes the desperate scramble for the gigantic spear gun (called a “scorpion” in-episode), loads it all by himself, fires, misses, loads it again, then connects to bring the dragon down to earth.
And as if that’s not enough, he’s the guy who comes racing in from out of nowhere to knock Jaime out of the path of oncoming dragon fire, that he might live another day (and/or die in a murky pool — but again, that won’t happen). Everybody else is losing their heads, but Bronn keeps his.
Add to that a pretty impressive long take that follows him around the battlefield as he staggers toward the scorpion and his earlier suggestion that Jaime should get the hell out of Dodge, and you have the one guy who seems to realize that while the Lannisters have been winning a lot of late, they don’t have much room to get over-confident. It’s good to have Bronn back for more than a single shot.
I referred to Matt Shakman above via his 44 episodes of It’s Always Sunny, which are his most prominent credit. But I left out that he’s directed episodes of everything from Fargo to Mad Men to You’re the Worst to The Good Wife, and his episodes have often added a necessary cinematic flair to even the scuzzy interiors of Sunny. He’s one of those TV directors who’s been around for ages (since 2002), but mostly working out of the limelight, bouncing between comedy and drama. (Also, he starred as “the son” in the late ’80s family sitcom Just the Ten of Us, which I just learned.)
Well, Shakman likely won’t be an anonymous craftsman much longer. His Thrones debut is a pretty bold and brutal episode to make a mark with, and I loved many of his choices. In particular, the way his camera pans slowly across the horizon as the Dothraki can be heard but not yet seen — hidden just behind the crest of a hill — builds tension beautifully, until that dragon streaks in out of the sky.
And the long take of Bronn stumbling through the battle, dragon fire burning everywhere, is much, much better than last season’s similar long take in “The Battle of the Bastards.” It conveys the chaos of battle, yes, but also gives you a good sense of just why Bronn takes every step and makes every move he makes. He’s saved by dumb luck, sure, but also because he thinks quickly on his feet. And the camera tilting up just in time to catch a dragon flying by is the coup de grace.
Editor Katie Weiland deserves tons of credit for this episode, too. In particular, the heightening tension as Jaime plunges toward Dany, knowing he’s probably doomed, with frequent cuts to Tyrion imploring his estranged brother not to piss off the giant dragon, made for a white-knuckle end to an already impressive episode.
Okay, other stuff happened in this episode, too, and lots of it happened up North, where the three surviving Stark children have been reunited for the first time since the series’ pilot.
But I’ll come back to that. For now, I want to talk about Bran, who’s still creeping people out with his ability to see all of time and space. Last week, he used this to tell his sister he’d seen her horrible wedding night. But this week, he’s using it to clue Littlefinger in that he can see alllll of Littlefinger’s life.
When Lord Baelish brings up chaos, Bran says, flatly, that, hey, “chaos is a ladder,” a reference to a memorable scene between Littlefinger and Varys back in season three, one that referenced Littlefinger’s constant need to keep spinning new conflicts in order to advance his position.
Of course, one of the foremost ways Littlefinger has done this is in betraying Ned Stark, which led to the latter’s head being chopped off. Bran isn’t just letting Littlefinger know he’s seen that chat with Varys — he’s letting him know he’s seen everything else too. Shakman ends the scene on Littlefinger’s face in close-up, looking almost directly into the camera lens. It’s unsettling, but it’s meant to be so. Clearly, he’s spooked.
(One complaint I have about Bran: I sort of don’t buy just how non-human he’s become. It feels like the series skipped over a couple of steps in its rush to get here, and maybe some of his scenes in season six would have been better served explaining just how he got from point A to point Three-Eyed Raven. Feign interest in Meera leaving, Bran! Feign it!)
If the reunion between Sansa and Bran last week was intentionally frustrating, then the reunion between Sansa and Arya is cautious but moving. The sisterhood between the two characters drove a lot of the book’s early plot, especially the way they clearly loved each other but also clearly didn’t understand each other one bit. Now, Sansa’s running Winterfell, and Arya has a lengthy list of people to kill. They might not understand each other any better, but they’re glad to see each other.
Of all the reunions this show has teased, the reunion of these two sisters has been the one that held the most potential for something moving. But Game of Thrones doesn’t dive in right away. It holds back — just as these two young women would hold each other at arm’s length at first. But within a few hours, they’re walking around the courtyard with Bran, the three of them talking about old times like it’s no big deal.
And, honestly, with Arya’s combat skills, Sansa’s political wisdom, and Bran’s ability to see all of space and time (including, apparently, alternate realities — I almost read Bran’s invocation of Arya’s visit to the Inn at the Crossroads as a suggestion he saw both a future where she went to King’s Landing and one where she turned North), I wouldn’t bet against House Stark, even at this late date.
Brienne bests Arya in combat, but only just, and the younger Stark sister is eager to learn from the woman who managed to beat the Hound all those years ago. The sequence where the two fight struggles a bit (as Thrones often does in close-quarters combat), but it’s worth it just for teasing an excellent new team-up possibility.
The Lannisters could pay off their debts, which would mean the Iron Bank could move forward with backing Cersei’s push to reunite the Seven Kingdoms … but maybe now it will back Daenerys. (The gold made it to King’s Landing, but maybe Cersei will use it to rebuild her army instead of repay the bank.) But our favorite financial institution has its options open, and it has seemingly endless reserves of cash with which to torment whichever queen it doesn’t back. One thing’s for certain: Everything’s coming up banking!
As we all know by now, dragonglass and Valyrian steel are going to be humanity’s best hope at withstanding the White Walker invasion. (Jon would also argue “strategic political alliances” will do the trick, but we already knew that, Jon.) Both materials take center stage in “The Spoils of War.”
The first turns up in a luminous underground cavern, in which Jon not only finds huge seams of dragonglass but also elaborate images of the Children of the Forest and the First Men banding together to fight the White Walkers, thousands upon thousands of years ago. The ancient history of Westeros is always compelling to me, and this is an appropriately eerie tribute to it, as this strange vision seems to only further convince Dany that Jon means some part of what he says. (Can one of those proposed Game of Thrones spinoffs be set during the Long Night?)
Valyrian steel creeps back into the story in a much less expected fashion, however, in the form of the dagger meant to take Bran’s life way back in season one, which is gifted to him by Littlefinger. (Bran doesn’t seem particularly surprised to see it, but, then, he wouldn’t be.) The dagger wends its way from Littlefinger to Bran to Arya — in a potent moment that seems to suggest Bran knows his sister will need it someday — and it’s fun to observe which characters the series is arming with Valyrian steel, and which it isn’t.
So far as I know, the show hasn’t really dealt much with the identity of the person who sent that assassin into Bran’s bedroom way back in season one, where the books have devoted a fair chunk of real estate (particularly within the heads of Catelyn Stark and Tyrion Lannister) to solving this particular mystery.
Before this week, I thought the show had mostly exhausted everything the books had left to offer, but here, at last, is another area where book readers probably have a leg up on show viewers.
Who tried to kill Bran? Readers have devoted a lot of time to puzzling that out, but the show hasn’t really encouraged viewers to hazard a guess. Now, belatedly, it is, and those who’ve read the books have a much bigger knowledge base, to the degree that the books have all but told readers who ordered the assassination — where the show has left viewers mostly in the dark.
Credit where it’s due. After I wrote a piece mildly complaining about how the show seems to have taken complete and utter leave of temporal reality, “Spoils” was largely confined to a period of a week or two, and all the better for it.
To be clear, I don’t think the show needs to show exactly how much time is passing (though a hint here or there wouldn’t hurt). There is a lot of stuff happening and a lot of ground to cover, and the show is right to skip past as many uninteresting bits as it can, even if it has to gleefully vault forward across weeks or even months.
But “Spoils” reminded me, again, just how thrilling this show can be when it confines itself to smaller periods of time. When it focuses in on one conflict, or one particularly dark turn in the story, it gains a power from its immediacy, from the way that bad things turn to worse and good things quickly turn bad. Not every episode of Game of Thrones can work this way, or the show’s pace would become excruciatingly slow. But it’s always a treat when the series focuses in, with razor-sharp execution.
Other winners: Arya, for being far better at combat than I ever imagined; Sam, for not having to do anything horrifying for one week; Theon, for living yet again; the other two dragons, for not having to sustain any massive injuries; Cersei, for receiving complimentary comparisons to her father; Game of Thrones fans, for getting a really great episode after a couple of hours stuck in neutral; the First Men and Children of the Forest, for making all of this possible.
Other losers: There are no losers, only winners. But, okay, the guy who carved the Ned Stark tomb, for really missing what made that guy shine.
Correction: As originally written, this post was more or less accurate in regards to what happened to the Lannisters’ plundered gold, but I amended it, later, to be inaccurate, stating the gold was destroyed in the dragon attack, after watching just the scene between Cersei and the Iron Bank’s representative, but not the later scene where the gold is declared to be safe at King’s Landing. Though it’s not clear that Cersei has actually used said gold to pay back the Iron Bank just yet, she does have it in her possession as the episode wraps. Let us never speak of this again.
Bran Stark is dead. Well, metaphorically.
That’s Meera Reed’s judgment, after an awkward, alienating farewell conversation with the boy she’s accompanied to hell and back. “You died in that cave,” she told Bran in Sunday’s episode of Game of Thrones, before leaving Winterfell to return to her family.
And indeed, the Bran scenes in “The Spoils of War” are just the latest reminder of how much the character has been changed by his transformation into the new “Three-Eyed Raven” last season.
Already, in last week’s episode, we got the sense there was now something off about Bran, when he mused to his sister about how beautiful she looked on the night of one of the most traumatic experiences of her life.
Now, he’s saying he doesn’t even really view himself as Bran Stark anymore. “I remember what it felt like to be Brandon Stark,” he says. “But I remember so much else now.”
Those memories include the names on Arya’s revenge list, his knowledge of which he casually drops to her during their reunion.
They also include Petyr “Littlefinger” Baelish’s catchphrase “chaos is a ladder,” which Bran weirds Littlefinger out with during their one-on-one sit-down.
And this surely isn’t good news for Littlefinger, who is clearly hatching another new scheme of some kind by giving Bran the dagger that was used in an assassination attempt against him back in season one.
So here’s a guide to what exactly seems to have happened to Bran and what he seems to be able to do now — and a reminder about the history of that conspicuously reappearing dagger.
Over the past several seasons of Game of Thrones, Bran Stark has gradually developed his magical abilities, and he seems to be able to do two distinctly different things.
Earlier in the series, he gained the ability to “warg” — or, to enter the minds of animals (or people) in the present and control their actions. In previous seasons, he did this repeatedly with his late direwolf Summer and with his late companion Hodor.
This is a power that hasn’t come into play very much on the show recently, but may well in the future. In George R.R. Martin’s books, Bran wargs into birds and even seems to be able to see and (vaguely) speak through weirwood trees, like that one at Winterfell with the carving of a face. And fans have long wondered if he might be able to warg into a dragon.
Bran’s second and more recently acquired magical ability is his power to see, as he puts it, “everything that’s ever happened to anyone.” The old Three-Eyed Raven’s plan was to teach Bran how to do this incrementally, while he was hooked up to one of those magical weirwood trees in a cave, so he could eventually help save humanity from the White Walkers.
But when the Walkers unexpectedly attacked the cave midway through season six, the Three-Eyed Raven knew he was a goner and decided to speed up his timetable. “The time has come for you to become me,” he told Bran, before starting some sort of magical download of visions and memories into Bran’s mind.
This began happening as he fled the White Walker attack itself and seems to have been kicked into an even higher gear as of the final episode of season six, when Bran touched a weirwood tree near the Wall and had a vision of Jon Snow’s birth.
It’s also had a shattering impact on Bran’s personality. Now, when he speaks to his fellow characters, he seems only half-present in the conversation, as if part of his mind is now always focused on cycling through visions of the past. And his own memories of his life as Bran Stark now exist alongside memories of, well, all of human existence up to this point.
Furthermore, it appears that seeing so much sorrow and pain throughout history, and being tasked with stopping the White Walkers, has made it difficult for Bran to get worked up about any one person’s individual concerns or emotions. So now, he can muse disinterestedly about one of the worst nights of Sansa’s life, or send Meera off with barely a perfunctory thank you. His own experiences are barely a blip to him.
Conveniently for Game of Thrones’ plot, though, Bran doesn’t quite seem to be omniscient. “It’s all pieces now, fragments,” he said of his memories in last week’s episode. “I need to learn to see better. When the Long Night comes again, I need to be ready.” He seems to be searching specifically for some sort of information that could help humanity in its coming conflict against the White Walkers, though it’s not yet clear what that would be.
But Bran is faced with a more immediate concern when Littlefinger meets him and hands him a rather strange gift — a dagger that was once used to try to kill Bran and therefore, Littlefinger claimed, “started the War of the Five Kings.”
You’d be forgiven for not remembering this, since it’s a reference to events that took place in Game of Thrones’ very first episodes. So here’s a refresher.
Back in the series premiere, Bran climbed a tower at Winterfell and saw Cersei and Jaime Lannister having sex — after which Jaime pushed him out the window, crippling him.
Then, while Bran was unconscious in the following episode, a mysterious and seemingly rather dull-witted assassin showed up and tried to murder him, before being stopped by Bran’s mother Catelyn and his direwolf Summer.
As the Starks tried to figure out what happened, they noticed that the assassin’s weapon was quite unique. It was an expensive dagger made of the incredibly rare substance Valyrian steel. So Catelyn set out on a journey to King’s Landing to try to find out who was behind the assassination.
When she arrived in the city, she was immediately met by Littlefinger. “There’s only one dagger like this in the Seven Kingdoms — it’s mine,” Littlefinger told her. But he went on to claim that he recently lost the dagger in a bet, to Tyrion Lannister, therefore implying to Catelyn that it was Tyrion who had tried to kill Bran.
This, we now can safely say, was a lie and part of Littlefinger’s overall strategy to set the Starks and Lannisters against each other for his own benefit. And it worked, since Catelyn kidnapped Tyrion soon afterward in an attempt to bring him to justice, creating the first open conflict between the two families. (However, Littlefinger’s claim that the dagger “started the War of the Five Kings” does seem like an overstatement — his own murder of Hand of the King Jon Arryn, and Ned’s later discovery that the royal children were all fathered by Jaime, were arguably more important.)
Still, the question of who actually sent the assassin after Bran back in season one hasn’t yet been resolved. And you can bet that the reference to this mystery and the reappearance of the dagger after all this time means we’ll get an answer soon. (Littlefinger now claims, to Bran, that he has no idea who the dagger initially belonged to. Hmm.)
Regardless of the weapon’s history or this unresolved plot line, though, Bran’s handoff of the dagger to Arya is an exciting development — because Valyrian steel is one of the two known substances that can kill White Walkers.
Arya showed off some serious combat skills when she sparred with Brienne in this episode. So the prospect that she’ll wield this dagger against the Night King’s army and use it to take down White Walkers in some epic future battle is a tantalizing possibility.
In the comic book world, writers and artists always warn fans that they should worry when good things happen to their favorite characters. Nothing good — new friends, new lovers, new leases on life, new bits of happiness — can last in a universe built on high-stakes peril and drama.
As a comic book fan watching the latest episode of Game of Thrones, “The Queen’s Justice,” all I have to say is: Cersei Lannister, you’re in danger, girl.
Related
Cersei has absolutely throttled this young seventh season by handily outmaneuvering her biggest foes. She got rid of sneaky, shady Olenna Tyrell by sending a surprise attack to Highgarden. She forged an alliance with the newly made-over Euron Greyjoy to sink Dany’s battleships. In the process, two of the three Sand Snakes were killed and one was captured — only to be finished off by Cersei in a two-for-one special as the queen poisoned her prisoner while keeping the Snakes’ mother alive to watch her daughter die (the show implies that the death happens offscreen).
That’s in addition to indulging in unapologetic incest with her brother Jaime, and traipsing around the castle the morning after like Julie Andrews in The Sound of Music — she doesn’t have a care in the world about what people might say about her, now that she’s the queen.
High on the thrill of violence inflicted upon her enemies and gentle postcoital spooning with her brother/lover, there is no character on Game of Thrones who’s currently winning more than Cersei Lannister. Which means everything has to come crashing down around her sooner or later.
The first three episodes of season seven have hammered home that Dany doesn’t want to attack King’s Landing because she doesn’t want her dragons to turn the place into the Targaryen Bar and Grill. Not being able to separate civilians from Cersei’s army is all that seems to be holding Dany back, and is the main reason Tyrion keeps reminding her that there’s no power in ruling a city of ash.
Meanwhile, the detail that’s stopping Dany from retaliating against Euron by torching his fleet, as stated in “The Queen’s Justice,” is that she doesn’t know where he is or what kind of support he has.
But we viewers know Euron’s exact whereabouts: As we witnessed at the end of the episode, he’s closing in on Casterly Rock, which the Unsullied have just taken. And Jaime has marched his army to Highgarden.
Which suggests that for both Dany and Cersei, lots of things are about to change.
Grey Worm will probably get word to Dany that Euron has arrived in Casterly Rock, which may prompt her to send her dragons, flank Euron’s navy, and burn his ships in the open water. The question is whether they’ll arrive in time to save Grey Worm and the Unsullied.
If this conflict were about to play out in any other location, the odds would favor Euron’s powerful navy. But in “The Queen’s Justice,” we learned an important secret about Casterly Rock: Though it’s really difficult to break into because of its walls and design, its sewer system is vulnerable — and the only people who know about that vulnerability are the Unsullied and the man who created it, Tyrion Lannister.
With Casterly Rock’s defenses, the Unsullied should be able to last long enough for Dany and her dragons to come swooping in and save the day.  Since Euron doesn’t know about the sewer system, the Unsullied should be able to hold him off in time for some dragon-fueled reinforcements or to prepare a retreat.
Meanwhile, it’s unclear what Jaime’s army is planning to do or where it’s going to go after plundering Highgarden. Perhaps they’ll team up with Euron to take back Casterly Rock. But every second they’re on the march, they’re at risk — they’re conveniently separated from the civilians from King’s Landing, which until now has been the only thing protecting them from Dany’s dragons. And they’re also easy target for Dany’s dragons if they’re marching in open fields.
Another reason the future might not be so great for Jaime and his army: This little snippet from the season seven trailer shows him riding through a scorched, fire-ridden field (which could be a sign that he’s about to encounter a very angry Dany):
It’s extremely plausible that in two swoops by three dragons, Cersei could see large parts of her army and/or navy completely demolished.
Given how malevolent and successful Cersei has been so far this season, it doesn’t feel like a question of whether her downfall will happen so much as when it will happen.
But even with the assumption that she’ll lose her lead, I wouldn’t put it past Cersei to have one last colossal betrayal up her sleeve, either later this season or in Game of Thrones’ eighth and final one. She’s shown us before that in her world, despair, like success, is only temporary.
Every Sunday, we pick a new episode of the week. It could be good. It could be bad. It will always be interesting. You can read the archives here. The episode of the week for July 29 through August 5 is “Rickmancing the Stone,” the second episode of the third season of Cartoon Network’s Rick and Morty.
Rick and Morty, Cartoon Network’s bizarro animated series about a brilliant madman traveling through infinite dimensions at a burp’s notice, is both disdainful of TV convention and committed to exploiting it for its own ends. No matter what kind of surreal space nightmare Rick (creator Justin Roiland) and his grandson Morty (also Roiland) stumble into, the chances are good that the show will at least briefly indulge our expectations before blowing them up into gory pieces.
The show has always been deeply, proudly weird, especially when it throws its characters into chaotic alien worlds and barbs its jokes with poison tips. But when Rick and Morty is at its best — as it is in “Rickmancing the Stone — it’s because it combines that crackling disdain and imagination with something even more daring: humanity.
Ugh, I know, barf. If Rick were a real live person, he would undoubtedly zap to my side at this point and vaporize me for the crime of being maudlin, because why express a real human feeling when you could just be awesome and not give a shit about anyone or anything?
As the show constantly reveals, however, Rick isn’t totally the careless vagabond he says he is, nor are his family members as simple as he makes them out to be. Okay, yes, they can all be cruel and small, putting their own interests before literally everyone else’s. But perversely — Rick and Morty’s adverb of choice — that pettiness makes the moments when the show allows them to show a sliver of vulnerability that much more effective.
In “Rickmancing the Stone,” the family is dealing — or more accurately, trying desperately not to deal — with the fallout from Rick’s daughter Beth (Sarah Chalke) shrugging her way into a divorce from Jerry (Chris Parnell), who’s such a sad sack that he spends most of this episode furtively looking around while the wind breathes, “Loser,” in his general direction.
The divorce, which the show suddenly revealed at the end of the season three premiere, has neurotic hand-wringer Morty concerned — but he can’t exactly pretend he’s surprised. Beth, being the daughter of the universe’s most prized and feared mad genius, has only occasionally seemed to find Jerry’s thorough blandness attractive in any way.
In order to escape the reality of their parents’ divorce, Morty and his older sister Summer (Spencer Grammer) launch themselves face first into yet another adventure with Rick in a dystopian hellscape, which basically turns out to be the bloody, ruthless, dusty deserts of Mad Max, plus a bonus green glowy thing Rick recognizes as a particularly powerful source of energy.
Summer takes to this world almost alarmingly fast (more on that later), while spindly Morty takes some time to get used to a place in which brawn rules all and the most awesome thing you can do is rip someone’s head clean off their body. He does eventually warm up to it, thanks to Rick giving him a quick and dirty arm transplant that lends Morty one brawny bicep that can take on anyone and anything — but as he learns soon enough, that bicep has its own tragic backstory, and a whole lot of unfinished business.
This is the kind of weirdo twist in which Rick and Morty specializes. The show can deliver some true, deeply personal narrative gut punches smack dab in the middle of an otherwise bizarre, graphic, or deranged story. Where Morty’s storyline is at first about him reluctantly kicking ass with a scientifically enhanced arm, it quickly becomes about him facing up to his own pain over his parents’ divorce. Of course, he’s still learning this lesson from a disembodied arm that wants nothing more than to drown those who have wronged him in their soaking tubs, but I would expect nothing more from Rick and Morty’s commitment to finding depth in the most unexpected places.
And that, as it turns out, is an excellent segue into talking about the Rick and Morty character I love most, and the one who makes “Rickmancing the Stone” as good as it is.
Morty’s older sister Summer began as an archetypical bratty teen, more attached to her friends and phone than anything else. While Rick and Morty traveled throughout dimensions and had one depraved adventure after another, Summer tended to sit at home and be collateral damage when the time called for it.
But over two seasons and the promising beginning of this third one, she’s become one of the show’s strongest players. This is in part due to Grammer’s gung-ho performance, which has expanded Summer’s initial bored monotone into something far more freewheeling and manic. But Summer’s evolution has also happened as the show has become more willing to let her get just as weird and messed up as the rest of her family — and sometimes even smarter.
In “Rickmancing the Stone,” Summer evades any and all true feelings about her parents’ divorce by embracing this gory new post-apocalyptic lifestyle. Channeling her pent-up frustration into this new reality, she whips around the desert in roaring cars, coolly picks off weak humans crawling around the hellscape, and hooks up with a mustachioed “Death Stalker” bounty hunter (Joel McHale). Even Rick, who makes a point not to be impressed by anyone but himself, admits that his granddaughter is kicking some serious ass.
Eventually, however, Summer is sorely disappointed when this world reveals itself to be just as petty and boring as her life in an Earth suburb. Her Death Stalker boyfriend turns out to be a rambling bore, and even stops wanting to go out and hunt people. Meanwhile, their neighbors brag about their pregnancy and deliver passive-aggressive reminders that Summer really needs to take her scrap metal out to the curb once in a while.
But even then, Summer’s cold fury manages to erupt in a hilarious way. When her slack Death Stalker meets her request for him to stop watching TV with, “Jesus, when did you become a monster?”, Summer loses her cool so hard that her spiked hair starts to curl. “I was a monster when you met me!” she shrieks, clutching a bag of rotting groceries. “We were monsters together!”
It’s a great moment for Grammer’s delivery alone, but it’s also a reminder that Summer brings something to the table that neither Rick nor Morty ever really has. She has a real, boiling rage that can emit so much heat that it practically vibrates off the screen. In the middle of the show’s intergalactic, interdimensional strangeness, Summer has become a welcome bolt of apoplectic lightning.
The first two seasons of Rick and Morty are currently available to stream on Hulu. New episodes are available to stream on AdultSwim.com.
Wet Hot American Summer is one of the most rewatchable movies out there. The 2001 comedy, directed by David Wain, is deliriously, enthusiastically dumb, chronicling the last day of lunacy at the idyllic Camp Firewood as the summer of 1981 comes to a close. No punchline is too silly, no cutaway too obvious, no cliché too clichéd. It’s endlessly quotable and relentlessly fun, and every time I watch it I come away with a new favorite joke.
But now that Netflix has turned the film into a TV franchise — starting with the 2015 prequel series First Day of Camp and continuing this week with a new sequel, the ’90s-set 10 Years Later — the jokes that were once so bonkers and buoyant have started to sag.
Rating
First Day of Camp had some fun with new characters, not to mention its winking refusal to explain why all of the returning “teen” characters — played by the film’s original cast — look 15 years older on the first day of camp than they do on the last. But it was also shaggy, scattered, and hampered by the obvious fact that barely any of its actors could be in the same place at the same time, because they’d all become a lot more famous, and therefore a lot busier, since making the original film. By the time I finished watching it, I was glad it existed but had a feeling I would rarely be tempted to revisit it.
Unfortunately, that sentiment holds doubly true for 10 Years Later, which takes place in 1991 and centers on the camp counselor reunion first teased in the original film. While the cast is solid enough that it can sell almost anything, taking a third trip to Camp Firewood makes for a reunion that would’ve been best left to our imaginations.
Here’s the good, bad, and weird of this latest — and hopefully final — return to the world of Wet Hot American Summer.
The reason Wet Hot American Summer: 10 Years Later is here at all is the same reason the movie ever worked in the first place: its excellent cast.
The original film brought together an eclectic mix of known and unknown performers, from Paul Rudd and pre-SNL Amy Poehler to The State comedians Michael Ian Black and Michael Showalter to then-future movie stars Bradley Cooper and Elizabeth Banks to bonus Janeane Garofalo and Christopher Meloni (and I still haven’t mentioned at least three of my favorites). First Day of Camp then capitalized on the original cast’s collective rise in fame to bring in even more big players — including Josh Charles and Kristen Wiig as Camp Firewood’s preppiest rivals. Both Charles and Wiig return for 10 Years Later, as do many more of the prequel’s cast additions. And they’re all joined by Adam Scott, who makes his Wet Hot debut in 10 Years Later to play Bradley Cooper’s character post-nose job (truly, a deviated septum can change an entire face.)
Everyone is exactly as enthusiastic and willing to make total idiots of themselves as the Wet Hot way of life requires. Rudd as Camp Firewood’s most dedicated dirtbag and John Early as Poehler’s camp theater rival are particular standouts, relishing every ounce of sneering material they get. Even 10 Years Later’s weakest moments are lifted a bit by the rock-solid cast performing them.
It’s difficult to name the weirdest part of a series that is wall-to-wall weirdness, but I’ll go with H. Jon Benjamin returning as a sentient can of vegetables — the product of a man sliding into a pool of toxic sludge — and going on the lam to escape the wrath of Ronald Reagan. To say more would rob you of the particular joy of his madcap road trip adventures, so let’s leave it at that.
Where the Wet Hot American Summer movie parodied ’80s sex comedies and First Day of Camp doubled down on surrealism, 10 Years Later mostly rehashes old punchlines and makes fun of itself for doing so. There are long, long stretches — especially toward the beginning — where the humor alternates between ’90s references and the characters making meta jokes about themselves. Plus, with eight episodes to fill, 10 Years Later careens right through them, which gets old quickly.
About halfway through the season, watching 10 Years Later starts to feel like stumbling into a real live reunion that you weren’t invited to, but everyone there sure is having a great time, so you might as well have a drink and listen to them shoot the shit. It’s obvious when they find something hilarious, but less so why.
Still, it’s hard to blame the Wet Hot team for wanting to take another crack at Camp Firewood. Everyone involved in 10 Years Later probably had a hell of a good time getting together and throwing ridiculous jokes at each other like it’s a competitive sport on Netflix’s generous dime. So while the result can be frustrating to watch, it’d be understandable if they made it more for themselves than for anyone else.
Wet Hot American Summer: 10 Years Later, Wet Hot American Summer: First Day of Camp, and Wet Hot American Summer (Original Movie Flavor) are all available to stream on Netflix.
This week, Celeste Ng — novelist, short story writer, and author of Little Fires Everywhere — answers our questions.
What’s the first piece of media you consume every day?
NPR’s morning edition, on WBUR (the Boston affiliate). My husband’s clock-radio alarm is set to the station.
Name a writer or publication you disagree with but still read.
Well, I almost never agree with anything anyone in the current administration says, but I read their press releases and interviews and late-night tweets regularly, because I need to stay informed.
Who is the person who has most influenced the way you think?
My 6-year-old son. He asks a lot of big questions — “Why would people think someone with darker skin isn’t as good as somebody with lighter skin?” — so I have had to learn to answer big questions simply and honestly.
When was the last time you changed your mind about something?
Probably about 10 minutes ago when I decided to eat leftovers instead of buying something. Less facetiously: I’m always probing at my opinions, testing their stability, seeing if they hold up in the face of new experience and new evidence.
What’s your worst intellectual habit?
I don’t believe anything is black and white, so I’m always searching for nuance. On the whole I think this is a positive thing, but it also means I almost never give an unqualified answer.
What inspires you to learn?
The world is an interesting place, and human beings in particular are weird and funny and wonderful and fascinating. How can you not want to learn about them?
What do you need to believe in order to get through the day?
That if I make a positive difference for one person, the day was well spent.
What’s a view that you hold but can’t defend?
Goat cheese is gross. But I mean, you can have my share if you like it.
What book have you recommended the most?
The God of Small Things and The Bluest Eye.
You can read last week’s edition of 9 Questions with Laleh Khadivi here.
Every weekend, we pick a movie you can stream that dovetails with current events. Old, new, blockbuster, arthouse: They’re all fair game. What you can count on is a weekend watch that sheds new light on the week that was. The movie of the week for August 6 through 12 is Fast Times at Ridgemont High (1982), which is available to stream on HBO Go or digitally rent on YouTube, Amazon, Vudu, iTunes, and Google Play.
Fast Times at Ridgemont High is approaching middle age. The true classic of American high school movies — such a classic that the Library of Congress’s Film Registry deemed it worthy of official preservation — turns 35 years old on August 13.
Fast Times is one of those films that seems much more important in retrospect than it possibly could have felt at its release in 1982, when Roger Ebert, who liked some of the performances, still deemed it a “scuz-pit of a movie.”
Well, he wasn’t totally wrong. It’s anything but innocent. With adults almost entirely absent (except the notable exception of history teacher Mr. Hand), in between work and school the teenagers of Ridgemont High School drink, smoke, and screw without a care in the world. (At least until real life knocks.)
But while they all feel like slightly one-dimensional stereotypes — the nerd, the promiscuous cheerleader, the girl next door, the weird kid who always wears shades, the stoner — the kids of Ridgemont High originated from a semi-ethnographic work by Cameron Crowe, who was then just a freelance journalist for Rolling Stone. He went undercover at San Diego’s Clairemont High School for a year and wrote a (now out-of-print) book about the experience, which he then turned into the movie.
There are a lot of hilarious facts floating around the internet about the movie, my favorite of which is that its studio, Universal, originally wanted David Lynch to direct it — but Lynch turned down the opportunity because it wasn’t in his wheelhouse. Just imagine.
Fast Times at Ridgemont High is a movie about being young in the early 1980s — an experience that applies not only to its characters, but to its creative team and cast. This was Crowe’s feature screenwriting debut, after which he’d go on to make movies like Say Anything, Jerry Maguire, and Almost Famous.
It was Amy Heckerling’s directorial debut, too; she’d eventually make movies like Clueless and Look Who’s Talking. (More recently, she’s directed episodes of TV, including the season finale of The Office’s first season, entitled “Hot Girl.”)
And the movie introduced a host of young actors who’d go on to be recognizable screen presences (and in some cases, sex symbols) well past the 1980s. Fast Times was Phoebe Cates’s second feature and Jennifer Jason Leigh’s fourth. Sean Penn, who played the unforgettable Spicoli, had been working for a few years before Fast Times, but the movie was most people’s introduction to him, and with good reason.
It was Judge Reinhold’s feature debut — he landed the role of Brad because he was Heckerling’s upstairs neighbor — as well as the debut for Nicolas Cage, Forest Whitaker, Eric Stoltz, and Anthony Edwards.
Even Bruce Springsteen’s sister Pamela Springsteen has a minor role in the movie. Is there anything more ‘80s than that?
All that youth might be what makes Fast Times at Ridgemont High so endearing and iconic. So many of the people involved were fresh, at the start of their careers, with the whole world ahead of them. Many of them likely felt that familiar knot of anticipation as they walked onto set. Would this be the big one? Would this be their breakout moment?
That feeling, of course, is reminiscent of being in high school again.
Watch the trailer for Fast Times at Ridgemont High:
Fans of the color white have had enough. On Reddit, they’re joining forces to resist the takeover of their color by racists.
You might say they’re throwing shades.
As the Daily Beast reports, trolls on Reddit have gotten fed up with the encroachment by right-wing extremists onto the site’s more mainstream areas. So they’ve taken over a few dormant white supremacist subreddits themselves — and filled them with topical debates about colors.
Reddit’s r/WhitePolitics and r/Whites subreddits have both been taken over and turned into havens of color discussion. For example: The link described as “why whites must be separated from blacks” above directs to an article on laundry sorting.
The takeover is part of an established trend among Reddit users to hijack or preemptively create pernicious subreddits and turn them benign. For instance, in the murky online world of white supremacism, the word “stormfront” refers to the largest online community of neo-Nazis. On Reddit, however, proactive users created r/Stormfront before it could be created by racists, and now that subreddit routinely looks like this:
How did we get here? Basically, this is one delightful byproduct of Reddit’s larger, rampant troll culture.
At some point over the life of Reddit — thanks to the site’s constant interplay of ideological clashes, ironic use of the term “trolling,” and actual attempts to derail discussions intermingling with ironic attempts to pretend to derail discussions — it became pretty difficult to distinguish a “troll” takeover of a topic from, well, just a topic.
For instance, there’s a popular “troll network” of subreddits devoted to memes, reaction GIFs, and jokes — but unlike countless other similar subreddits on the site, this network’s defining trait is that its subreddits are attempting to be fundamentally safe spaces for women and other marginalized users.
Suffice it to say that this cheeky but benign side of Reddit’s troll culture is so ingrained into the website at this point that for every “serious” community providing a legitimate space for white supremacists to express themselves, there’s a trolly alternative.
Case in point: r/WhitePolitics. The takeover of that subreddit comes thanks to a dedicated group of users like Ianna Urquhuart, who uses the handle awkwardtheturtle.
Urquhart moderates hundreds of subreddits, including troll subs like r/The_Donaldd — dedicated to celebrating Donald Duck — and non-extremist subs like r/Alt_Right, dedicated to “studying the alt-right movement in [a] removed, objective, and at least semi-serious way.” She’s also executed high-visibility “takeovers,” like transforming r/Faggots into a subreddit about bundles of wood.
Urquhart told the Daily Beast she and other moderators like her have essentially moved in and taken over subreddits whose maintainers have gone AWOL. Some previously damaging subreddits, like r/FatPussy and r/PussyGifs, have been taken over and essentially cleared of all content except for a handful of cat memes, while others, like r/Wet_Pussy, are empty but ready at any moment to fulfill their true purpose, in this case as a home for pictures of wet cats.
The work of these and other dedicated Reddit moderators illustrates one thing that media portrayals of Reddit frequently fail to convey: that is, the dedication of “normies” (the alt-right term for people who aren’t proudly racist) to preserving the positive parts of Reddit culture — or, at the very least, mocking the parts of it that can’t be saved.
Welcome to the Vox weekly book link roundup, a curated selection of the best writing online about books and related topics. Here’s the best the internet has to offer for the week of July 30, 2017.
When I meet trans people for the first time, especially in mixed company, I’ll sometimes try out this line where I mention Animorphs offhand, as if I don’t take it seriously, as if I didn’t spend the majority of my first puberty wishing that I were turning into a bird or a tiger instead of into a young woman. More often than not, trans folks will say something to me like, “Oh my god, right? Tobias was totally trans!” Cisgender people will usually take this as their cue to get another drink.
H.M. Ward, a self-published romance author who’s sold 13 million books, says she writes two hours a day, averaging about 2,500 words an hour. (For context, that’s two of these articles in the time it takes to eat lunch.) “Phone is set to silent. Stop watch is timing me. Door to office is shut,” she writes in an email.
Q: Why do you think we, as a culture, are so endlessly obsessed with stories about last-ditch attempts to stave off the end of the world?
A: The end of the world is universal shorthand for whatever we don’t want to happen. We have very little control over anything much at all, individually, so fantasies of staving off the end of the world are fairly benign fantasies of increased agency.
I ask friends what books they’ve read that spotlight furious women. I’m talking Medea-level wrath, I explain. Like Ferrante’s writing at its raging best. In addition, I want the books to be written by women. I believe, I do, in writers’ ability to invent humans unlike them, but this time I’m craving the real thing, hits of firsthand rage.
With my first book, I was talking about various phases in my life, and I ended one of those little chapters with the line, "I licked the platter clean." Now, that was my era; that was the kind of thing you would have said. It came straight from my mouth. And my editor had put his line through it, he'd slashed it. So, when I sent it to the copy editor after looking at it, I just wrote "stet," and it was stetted. Sometimes, you just know that's better than argument.
Happy reading!
As Game of Thrones fans nestled in to watch the HBO megahit on Sunday evening, many also kept an eye on Twitter. But the tweetstorm that erupted that night had little to do with their show.
Instead, the protest hashtag #NoConfederate — which quickly trended to No. 1 in the US and No. 2 worldwide — was sparked by a separate project by the GoT creators: Confederate.
Confederate, the sci-fi, alt-history drama of what the United States would look like if the North had lost the Civil War, had been announced by HBO in late July. The brainchild of Game of Thrones writers David Benioff and D.B. Weiss, the series is a four-part collaboration between Weiss and Benioff, who are white, and Nichelle Tramble Spellman and Malcolm Spellman, a married writer and producer couple, who are black. The Spellmans are behind hit television shows The Good Wife and Empire.
The show, in early stages of development, has received major backlash. April Reign, creator of the hashtag #OscarsSoWhite, mobilized the Twittersphere on Sunday night with #NoConfederate, a joint effort between Reign and activists Rebecca Theodore, Jamie Broadnax, Shanelle Little, and Lauren Warren. And they were not alone in their concerns — earlier, critic Roxane Gay had condemned the series in the New York Times, calling it "slavery fan fiction."
The message? Do not run this show.
Reign posits that the subject alone is reason enough to cancel the show, pointing out that the effects of slavery are still felt today. Responding to someone suggesting that the show might illustrate what living with racism is like, Reign tweeted: "You mean white people. People of color are well aware of this. We don't need a TV show. We have, you know, our daily existence and stuff."
I spoke to Reign about her concerns about the subject matter of the show and its producers, the effects she thinks the show would have, and whether she will watch an episode of the series if it comes to fruition.
Our conversation is edited for length and clarity.
What were your initial feelings when you first learned about Confederate?
I learned about Confederate the way I learn about just about everything: through Twitter.
One red flag was the premise of the show itself. This is supposed to be alternate history, yet we see in the news almost every day the way that the Confederate mindset is still very alive and well in present-day 2017. You've got somebody like Dylann Roof, who is a Confederate flag waver, a white nationalist, very calmly going into a church in Charleston, South Carolina, and killing nine black people. You've got textbooks in the state of Texas literally rewriting history so that black people and Africans and African Americans were not "enslaved," they were merely workers.
We have a state officeholder in South Carolina talking about how proud she is of the Confederacy. We have people last month protesting that Confederate monuments were coming down in New Orleans. So if that is our present day, how is Confederate going to be any different?
The other red flag is the question about Benioff and Weiss in charge, and them bringing in two African-American writers to be producers and writers on the show. What they said [in a Vulture interview] was very telling. "…once we realized it was going to be a bigger story, we knew we didn’t wanna do it by ourselves because we’re … lazy."
That blew me away. They have been consistently criticized for Game of Thrones' gratuitous depiction of rape and the lack of the significant characters of color and the lack of diversity behind the camera.
When specifically asked in an interview right after the press release about these issues, they don't say, "We want to do it better in Confederate and so that's why we've brought on the Spellmans, so that they can handle these very sensitive issues with nuance and sensitivity."
No, what they said is that they were too lazy to do this on our own, and so they brought in two black people — and let's talk about the optics of that — to do the brunt of our work. But when push comes to shove, and they say, "Hey, you may want to reshoot this a little differently," it's still going to be Benioff and Weiss who have the final say.
How would you feel about this show if it had been created by totally different people? How central are Benioff and Weiss to your thoughts on it?
The fact that they are attached does not help. We get a lot of pushback, me and the other four women who started this campaign. "Oh, you're complaining about something you haven't seen." Well, that's true. But the press release, plus Benioff and Weiss and their work over the past six or seven years, give us no confidence that they'll be able to handle this well.
Regardless of who was at the helm, this is not an issue that we need to grapple with at this time as a country. So Confederate, on its own as it was presented to us, is a bad idea — even if you had an all-black crew. Our present-day reality is too close to the history that they want to show.
The other thing that we get a lot of is, "Well, people need to see how bad racism was and this will be an educational tool." Well, if we have Roots, and Django Unchained, and Glory, and Birth of a Nation, and Twelve Years a Slave — if all of that media has not convinced you, if the whip marks on the backs of these people have not convinced you that slavery was a bad idea, what is it about this particular show that is going to be educational for you that doesn't already exist? Why do we need more commodification of black pain for your enjoyment?
The Handmaid’s Tale depicts a totalitarian dystopia in which women are raped, tortured, and stripped of all rights. And women today are still battling to gain equal rights. Do you see parallels between this and Confederacy?
Seeing the subjugation of these women, forced to repopulate their community — how has that changed the thinking and the mindset? That's what Confederate’s supposed to do, right? “Let's open up our wounds so that people can heal,” and yada yada yada. But Handmaid's Tale isn't doing that. It's this sick sort of voyeurism about the subjugation of women.
Another comparison that we get a lot of pushback on is Man in the High Castle, an alternate history show where the Nazis are still in charge. The issue with that is Germany has attempted, at least, to grapple with its past. They have put Nazis and Nazi sympathizers on trial. They have gone to jail. Germany has paid reparations to Jewish folks and descendants of Jewish folks. They are trying to make things right, because of the incredibly awful history of the Holocaust. The United States has never done that. We have never attempted to reconcile our past with our present.
When I say something like, "We're still living with the vestiges of the enslavement of black and brown people, so that's why we have the disparity in housing, in employment, in education, with mass incarceration. All of that comes from slavery," somebody says to me, "Oh, you just need to get over it. Slavery was in the past. You just need to stop being a victim."
So are we leaving it in the past, or are we going to watch again? You've got to choose one. You can't both say you don't want to discuss slavery anymore but you want to see the show about slavery.
Critics like Roxane Gay and others call this "slavery fan fiction" or argue that it’s "romanticizing" slavery. Do you think it's too early to make these claims, before the show has been written?
No, I don't think it's too early, and I thought Roxane Gay's piece was brilliant. She's absolutely right because — what's the demographic for this show? Who is the intended audience? It can't possibly be black people, right? Because then what you're saying is, "Hey, black people, we know slavery is bad, but we want to show you how bad it was."
For people of color, we already know how bad things are. My 17-year-old son — I shudder every time he leaves the house. He gets pulled over because he's driving an SUV and some cop thinks he doesn't look like he should be driving an SUV. That's my reality.
If it's not being made for people of color, then that means this is made for white folk. Why, as a white person, would you want to see that unless it appeals to your base desire to see people enslaved and in pain? If you were an ally or, you know, a white person was trying to be "woke," watch Ava DuVernay's 13th documentary. Read The New Jim Crow by Michelle Alexander. There are things that do exist already for you to learn about the pain that our country has already suffered without this new show where they're going to be spending millions of dollars an episode.
Your #OscarsSoWhite campaign on Twitter drew global attention to the lack of diversity at the Academy Awards. Are there parallels between that movement and #NoConfederate? What was your goal for that one, and how did that influence what you're doing right now?
The goal of #OscarsSoWhite remains that people from traditionally underrepresented communities should have opportunities to tell their stories. There is natural synergy between #OscarsSoWhite and #NoConfederate. Why didn't Benioff and Weiss, who obviously have a considerable amount of leverage with HBO, take a step back and say, "You know what? The Spellmans are our friends for over 10 years. We are going to champion their work so that their stories can be told." That's what could have happened. That would have been the #OscarsSoWhite way to go, to involve more people in the process, in the decision-making stage, but also right at the very beginning at the screenwriting and pitch stage.
It's not just about the faces that we see onscreen. It's whose story is being told and who is given the opportunity to tell the story, so having a director of color, or having an LGBTQIA screenwriter, or having a person with disabilities who is the editor on the show. All of those things make a difference, because we all operate with our own frames of reference. This was a natural continuation.
One of the differences between the logistics is that #OscarsSoWhite was completely organic. It wasn't something that I planned. Here, with Confederate, four other women and I got together and intentionally said, "This is what we're going to do." It was much more organized.
I'm curious about the reactions you’ve received since last week. Have you had any questions or conversations with friends or critics that have been surprising?
We announced the #NoConfederate campaign last Friday morning. Sunday night at 9 pm, it was our intention to have the hashtag trending nationally. It trended No. 1 in the nation for over an hour for both Game of Thrones showings on the coast. It was also trending No. 2 in the world.
So, yes, we have all had conversations with friends and foes. "We need to wait and see," or, "You're jumping the gun," or, "People need to see this so they know how bad things were." It's not just bigots and intolerant folk. It's also from people of color who don't understand why we're doing this. I don't want to make it sound as if it's incredibly binary, because it's not. We've had those conversations since Friday.
If you don’t think this show should be created, who should be held responsible? HBO is airing it, but do the actors or the consumers have a role?
Actors have to make difficult choices, and so do the folks who work on the show. I don't want to discount directors and scriptwriters and all. I don't fault them, because they still need to put food on the table, and sometimes you're just not in a position to take the stand that you would otherwise want to take. I understand that.
I think the responsibility starts and ends with Benioff and Weiss. Now that they know there's going to be significant and continued backlash to their show, they need to scrap it and do something else. They still have the leverage with HBO to come up with a different idea or allow someone from a marginalized community to have an idea. Benioff and Weiss could do an open call.
That's where the primary responsibility lies. Right after them is HBO, because they're the ones who've been investing millions of dollars on this. There's a reason why we're not boycotting HBO, because they do some good work. Insecure is great. They're committed to change all of the August Wilson cycle of plays into films, so they've started with Fences, but they're going to do the other nine as well. This is Confederate-specific. It's not about HBO just yet.
There's also the consumer. The viewer also has a responsibility to say, "I'm not going to give HBO ratings for a show that shows the subjugation of people. That's going to be more divisive than inclusive, so I won't watch that show and perhaps I won't even stay with that network."
If Benioff and Weiss flipped the whole idea and did something similar to Black America, Amazon's new show — another alt-history about the Civil War, in which former slaves from Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama created the nation of New Colonia — what would you think about that?
Well, they literally can't do that now, right — that's the reason Amazon dropped that press release when they did.
Let's be clear: Black America is not about the subjugation of white folks. Black America is going to be about black people thriving in this country and I don't believe that white people were mentioned. That's the difference. Why must we show the subjugation of any people to show that another set of people are doing well? I think that's what show creator Will Packer is speaking to.
We can have a positive and uplifting show, something that's alternate history, something that's going to be interesting and beautifully shot and all the rest of that stuff, but we don't have to show people who are enslaved to get there.
Correction: “Homogenization” of black pain was corrected to “commodification.”
Will & Grace is coming back to NBC this fall, and NBC sure hopes it’s so close to the original that you might forget it ever went away in the first place.
The upcoming revival — which premieres September 28 — came up several times throughout NBC’s day of panels at the Television Critics Association summer press tour, as thrilled executives salivated over the prospect of having it back on the network’s Thursday schedule. For some context on why, NBC executives Bob Greenblatt and Jennifer Salke acknowledged that NBC’s comedy record has been spotty as of late, with The Carmichael Show holding the title of the network’s longest-running sitcom at a whole three seasons (it was also abruptly canceled this summer).
So even though it’s been 11 years since Will & Grace ended, NBC is ready to revive one of its older reliable hits, preferably while making as few adjustments as possible to what they repeatedly called “lightning in a bottle.” The network is so determined to recapture this glory, in fact, that it has already renewed the Will & Grace revival for a second season, nearly two months before the first even debuts.
In other words: It’s safe to say that NBC is banking hard on Will & Grace succeeding. Here’s how the network is hoping to make that happen.
NBC isn’t planning to make the new Will & Grace radically different from the original Will & Grace, which aired from 1998 to 2006. In fact, Greenblatt cited what they considered to be an overwhelmingly positive response to a brief clip the cast made before last November’s election — which basically treats the characters as if they’d been frozen in amber since 2006 and briefly emerged to offer their takes on Donald Trump — as the reason he wanted to give a full revival a real chance.
So don’t expect a gritty reboot starring Will Truman and Grace Adler as dystopian time detectives or whatever (as awesome as that screwball post-apocalyptic logline now sounds).
Instead, both NBC and Will & Grace creators Max Mutchnick and David Kohan insisted that they’re happy to return to the show’s old rhythms and known strengths of its talented cast (who, in turn, had nothing but gushing praise for the writers who developed their beloved characters and the show that launched them into cultural touchstone status). The revival will even see Will (Eric McCormack) and Grace (Debra Messing) living together again — a confusing situation for anyone who watched the original series finale, which flashed forward and revealed that Will and Grace not only had their own families but hadn’t spoken in decades.
According to Kohan, they’re basically treating that finale — which they said they never would’ve written if they knew coming back was even a remote possibility — as if it never happened. That bleak future, he said, will be revealed as “more or less a fantasy,” or “a projection into the future.” Kohan and Mutchnick did acknowledge that Will and Grace — not to mention Megan Mullally’s Karen and Sean Hayes’s Jack — have “lived their own lives” in the 11 years since we last saw them, but that “circumstances” arise that necessitate they live together again. The initial episodes of the revival will “be about resetting the rules,” said Mutchnick,  since the finale “talked about things that are not gonna be on the show.”
“We think we came up with the right way to do that,” Mutchnick continued, though “it’s not anything that’s going to surprise you.”
While Will & Grace has been credited by some as broadening gay acceptance in America — once by former Vice President Joe Biden, no less —  the fact remains that the show existed in a very different time. Some of its jokes, particularly those made at the expense of transgender people, really haven’t aged well, especially as discussions of sexuality and gender identity continue to gain nuance.
The Will & Grace panel didn’t quite discuss the show’s own outdated punchlines, but it did acknowledge that the world we’re living in now looks a whole lot different from the one in which the show was first produced. “We’re not writing the show like it’s 1996,” Mutchnick said, adding that they’ve added “fantastic young writing talent” to their writing room that wouldn’t have been around the first time.
“When we started, it was revolutionary to have two gay characters [at all],” said Messing, “so what we were able to address at the time was LGB ... my hope now is that we can finish the alphabet.”
But then Kohan immediately interjected with a grin to crack a “Will & Greg?” joke, suggesting that even if the show does decide to tackle trans issues, it may not be nearly as forward-thinking as its creative team might have you believe.
The creators also answered a question about whether or not the show will feature more non-white actors in guest roles than it did in the past, by saying the characters “will be involved in situations that will necessarily mean a more diverse cast” — a vague, eyebrow-raising response, given that the show has always been set in the wildly diverse city of New York.
Oh, and one more thing that will apparently keep Will & Grace relevant in 2017: Karen will remain a Trump supporter, as per the tossed-off joke in last year’s election clip in which she said she voted for her “old friend Donald.”
But while everyone on the Will & Grace panel insisted that the revival won’t ignore how much America’s political climate has changed since the show first aired, they’re not about to dive face first into confronting it, either. “I think our show is not a news show,” Hayes curtly said at one point. “I think our show is a situation comedy.”
“You can be in one minute and out the next,” shrugged Mutchnick, referring to the breakneck pace of the current news cycle. “We’re going to try and keep it topical, but it’s not easy these days.”
“We’re writing our characters,” Kohan emphasized. “You can’t write a sitcom about concepts or ideas ... [but] it reflects the culture.”
How much the new Will & Grace will reflect a culture that’s evolved 11 years beyond the show’s previous expiration date remains to be seen. But frankly, its cultural relevance may not matter, given that NBC is so invested in bringing it back from the dead that it’ll give the show two seasons before having any idea how a 2017 audience will respond to more than a single surprise clip of something they once loved.
HBO has been trying to plug up leak after leak surrounding Game of Thrones this season, but the latest leak is the most dramatic. Earlier this morning, a watermarked copy of episode four of the series’ seventh season — scheduled to air this Sunday — appeared online and was rapidly shared around on Reddit.
Unlike earlier leaks involving a Game of Thrones script and episodes of Ballers and Room 104, this one doesn’t appear to be the result of a reportedly massive recent cyberattack on the network. Instead, the Verge reports that the new episode found its way to the internet via HBO distribution partner Star India.
“We take this breach very seriously and have immediately initiated forensic investigations at our and the technology partner’s end to swiftly determine the cause,” Star India said in a statement. “This is a grave issue and we are taking appropriate legal remedial action.”
In the meantime, the purported representative of the hackers targeting HBO — who signed himself “Kind Mr. Smith” in his most recent email and claims to have pilfered 1.5 terabytes of data from the network, including Game of Thrones scripts and episode outlines — is continuing to send out ever more grandiose and threatening emails.
“Hi to all mankind. The greatest leak of cyber space era is happening,” began the first email sent to reporters last Thursday, before concluding, “HBO is falling.”
Yesterday, Kind Mr. Smith reportedly sent out a fresh email to the Hollywood Reporter. “It's just about money,” the message states, implying the intent to release a large swath of the company’s emails, a threat that evokes the 2014 Sony hack that resulted in the release of thousands of the company’s internal emails and legal documents. “We have weeks of negotiations with HBO officials, but they broke their promises and want to play with us...So we have one option....Wait till Sunday. HBO is Falling..........."
Almost a year after the news that Angelina Jolie was filing for divorce from Brad Pitt after 11 years of marriage, tabloid gossip, and preternaturally beautiful children, Jolie broke her silence on the cover of Vanity Fair’s September issue. As far as spinning stories of turbulence into ones of resilience goes, Jolie beatifically lowering herself from the clouds to deliver her account for a magazine cover story — one that gushes over her humanitarian work, besides — is as straight-up as PR strategies get.
But in between penning florid descriptions of Jolie’s new home and lavishing praise upon her commitment to humanitarian causes, writer Evgenia Peretz included an anecdote that has eclipsed anything Jolie actually said about her famous marriage. Peretz writes about casting directors for Jolie’s Netflix film First They Killed My Father — a memoir adaptation about the Cambodian genocide — auditioning child actors to gauge how they could emote under pressure and instill an “authentic connection to pain” for the movie itself. Here is the segment in question, in its entirety:
To cast the children in the film, Jolie looked at orphanages, circuses, and slum schools, specifically seeking children who had experienced hardship. In order to find their lead, to play young Loung Ung, the casting directors set up a game, rather disturbing in its realism: they put money on the table and asked the child to think of something she needed the money for, and then to snatch it away. The director would pretend to catch the child, and the child would have to come up with a lie. “Srey Moch [the girl ultimately chosen for the part] was the only child that stared at the money for a very, very long time,” Jolie says. “When she was forced to give it back, she became overwhelmed with emotion. All these different things came flooding back.” Jolie then tears up. “When she was asked later what the money was for, she said her grandfather had died, and they didn’t have enough money for a nice funeral.”
As described, this casting process isn’t just jaw-droppingly insensitive, it’s a deeply disturbing way to treat children in general, let alone those who have already undergone significant hardship.
Once this excerpt of the cover story started getting more and more attention, Jolie herself responded to Entertainment Weekly through a publicist, thoroughly denouncing the story as “false and upsetting,” and that she would be “outraged” if it were at all true. Furthermore, Jolie said, “Every measure was taken to ensure the safety, comfort, and well-being of the children on the film starting from the auditions through production to the present ... no one was in any way hurt by participating in the recreation of such a painful part of their country’s history.”
But Jolie’s counter to Vanity Fair’s assertions didn’t stop there. According to Vanity Fair, Jolie’s lawyer sent the magazine a formal request for an apology, retraction, and visible correction to the story to clarify that no one was “tricked,” all of the children auditioning “were made aware of the fictional aspect of the exercise,” and that Vanity Fair was very sorry for “any misunderstanding.” And that, Jolie’s undoubtedly formidable legal team may have figured, could have been that.
Unluckily for them, Vanity Fair has the receipts.
The magazine not only reviewed both of the recording devices Peretz used to tape the interview, but published a transcript of the relevant moment when Jolie discussed the audition process — and it sure sounds exactly like what Peretz described.
[Jolie]: We had this game where it would be—and I wasn’t there and they didn’t know what they were really doing. They kind of said, “Oh, a camera’s coming up and we want to play a game with you.” And the game for that character was “We’re going to put some money on the table. Think of something that you need that money for.” Sometimes it was money, sometimes it was a cookie. [Laughter] “And then take it.” And then we would catch them. “We’re going to catch you, and we’d like you to try to lie that you didn’t have it.”
So it was very interesting seeing the kids and how they would—some were very conscious of the camera. They were actually—there are so many talented kids in this country. But Srey Moch was the only child that stared at that money for a very, very long time before she picked it up, and then bravely, brazenly lying, like was trying to hide, but then she also kind of—
[Peretz]: Wait. This is the girl, Loung.
Jolie: This is the girl. And then when she was forced to give it back became very kind of like strong, emotional, she became overwhelmed with emotion that she was—and she just—all of these different things flooded out. And I don’t think she or her family would mind me saying when she was later asked what that money was for, she said her grandfather died and they didn’t have enough money for a nice funeral.
After reviewing this portion of the interview, Vanity Fair’s response then states, with such stark confidence that you can almost hear the mic dropping, “V.F. stands by Peretz’s story as published.”
As of this writing, Jolie has not responded. And if Vanity Fair has two separate recordings on its side to back up its account, it’s hard to imagine how Jolie could further refute it.
It’s nearly impossible to overstate how influential Stephen King is. For the past four decades, no single writer has dominated the landscape of genre writing like him. To date, he is the only author in history to have had more than 30 books become No. 1 best-sellers. He now has more than 70 published books, many of which have become cultural icons, and his achievements extend so far beyond a single genre at this point that it’s impossible to limit him to one — even though, as the world was reminded when the first trailer for the upcoming film adaptation of King’s It smashed records for most-watched trailer in a single day earlier this year, horror is still King’s calling card.
Between recent or upcoming adaptations of It, The Mist, Mr. Mercedes, and The Dark Tower, it’s been a banner year for Stephen King horror adaptations. In particular, Dark Tower, out this week, seems poised to challenge commonly held assumptions about King’s creative purview to a degree we haven’t seen since 1994’s Shawshank Redemption. The new The Dark Tower is an attempt to corral King’s most ambitious work — a sprawling eight-book hybrid fantasy-Western series — into a single movie starring Idris Elba and Matthew McConaughey.
The Dark Tower is more than just a fantasy hybrid: It’s in many ways the culmination of the vast intertwined worlds that King has built throughout his many stories. That means if you’re a King fan — or looking to become one — there’s no better time to rediscover why he’s such a beloved cultural phenomenon.
After all, without King, we wouldn’t have modern works like Stranger Things, whose adolescent ensemble directly channels the Losers’ Club, King’s ensemble of geeky preteen friends from It. Without The Shining, and Stanley Kubrick’s masterpiece film adaptation, “Here’s Johnny!” would be a dead talk show catchphrase and parodies like the Simpsons’ annual Treehouse of Horror would be bereft of much of their material.
Without Carrie, we wouldn’t have the single defining image of the horror of high school: a vat of pig’s blood being dropped on an unsuspecting prom queen. Without King, we wouldn’t have one of the most iconic and recognizable images in cinema history — Andy Dufresne standing in the rain after escaping from Shawshank prison — nor would we have the enduring horror of Pennywise the Clown, Cujo the slavering St. Bernard, or Kathy Bates’s pitch-perfect stalker fan in Misery.
This is but a sampling born from a staggeringly prolific writing career that’s well on its way to spanning five decades. King has effectively been translating America’s private, communal, and cultural fears and serving them up to us on grisly platters for half a century.
Born in 1947, King grew up poor in Durham, Maine, the younger son of a single working mother whose husband, a merchant mariner, abandoned his family when King was still a toddler. A lifelong fan of speculative fiction, King began writing seriously while attending the University of Maine Orono. It was there, in 1969, that he met his wife, Tabitha.
By 1973, King was a high school English teacher drawing a meager $6,400 a year. He had married Tabitha in 1971, and the pair lived in a trailer in Hampden, Maine, and each worked additional jobs to make ends meet. King wrote numerous short stories, some of which were published by Playboy and other men’s magazines, but significant writerly success eluded him.
Tabitha, who’d been one of the first to read Stephen’s short stories in colleges, had loaned Stephen her own typewriter and refused to let him take a higher-paying job that would mean less time to write. Tabitha was also the one who discovered draft pages of what would become Carrie tossed in Stephen’s trash can. She retrieved them and ordered him to keep working on the idea. Ever since, King has continued to pay Tabitha’s encouragement forward. He frequently and effusively blurbs books from established as well as new authors, citing a clear wish to leave publishing better than he found it. Meanwhile, Tabitha is a respected author in her own right, as are both of their sons, Joe Hill and Owen King.
Carrie, which King sold for a $2,500 advance, would go on to earn $400,000 for the rights to its paperback run. The story of a troubled girl who develops powers of telekinesis, Carrie is the ultimate “high school is hell” morality tale. Carrie faces ruthless abuse from her religious mother and bullying from high school classmates, and the book introduces us to two of King’s most prominent themes: small Maine towns with dark underbellies, and main characters written with care and empathy despite being deeply flawed and morally gray — in this case Carrie, her mother, and her bully Sue. The complicated bond between protagonist and antagonist is also a recurring motif in King’s writing.
Two years after Carrie’s publication, Brian De Palma’s 1976 film adaptation grossed $33 million on a $1.8 million budget, largely on the strength of advance critical praise and word-of-mouth reviews. Buoyed by the subsequent success of Carrie’s paperback sales, King would go on to churn out six novels (Salem’s Lot, The Shining, Rage, The Stand, The Long Walk, and The Dead Zone) over the next six years, establishing a prolificacy that would continue through much of his career.
“The movie made the book and the book made me,” King told the New York Times in 1979.
By 1980, King was the world’s best-selling author.
King’s work has appeared in magazines ranging from the New Yorker to Harper’s to Playboy. The author has influenced literary writers like Haruki Murakami and Sherman Alexie along with genre creators like the producers of Lost. And he’s won virtually every major horror, mystery, science fiction, and fantasy award there is. But King also spent decades being written off by both the horror writing community and the literary mainstream.
King once referred to critics perceiving him to be “a rich hack,” a perception that bears out in horror writer David Schow’s offhand 1997 description of him as “comparable to McDonald’s” — intended to characterize King as horror’s pedestrian mainstream. When a 1994 King short story, his first to be published in the New Yorker, won the prestigious O. Henry Award, Publishers Weekly declared it to be “one of the weaker stories in this year’s [O. Henry Award] collection.”
“The price he pays for being Stephen King is not being taken seriously,” one of King’s collaborators told the LA Times in 1995.
The critical disparagement of King often went hand in hand with genre shaming. In a 1997 60 Minutes interview, Lesley Stahl questioned King’s literary tastes, getting him to admit that he’d never read Jane Austen and had only read one Tolstoy novel. In response, King grinned that he had, instead, read every novel Dean Koontz had ever written — Dean Koontz being a notoriously lowbrow writer of thrillers. (That same year, the New York Times would compliment the breadth of King’s literary knowledge even while panning his epic best-seller The Stand.)
“Here you are, one of the best- selling authors in all of history,” Stahl continued, “and the critics cannot find much that they like in your work.”
To this, King replied, “All I can say is — and this is in response to the critics who've often said that my work is awkward and sometimes a little bit painful — I know it. I'm doing the best I can with what I've got.”
While King’s self-deprecation may have been a mark of respect for his critics, those critics were on the cusp of being proven wrong. This was in large part thanks to the sleeping giant that became The Shawshank Redemption, which drew popular attention to the fact that King could do more than “just” write horror, and helped kick-start critical reassessment of him and his work.
The film, written by longtime Stephen King adapter Frank Darabont, is based on one of King’s most literary works, a 1982 novella about an agonizingly slow prison break. Shawshank flopped when it opened in theaters in 1994, but it was nominated for seven Academy Awards — more than any other King adaptation. As indicated by its long reign as the highest-ranked film on IMDB, it has gone on to become one of the most popular and beloved films ever made.
By 1998, under the oversight of a new publisher, King’s books were actively being marketed as literary fiction for the first time. From the mid-’90s through today, King’s critical and cultural reputation has advanced as thoroughly as it stagnated before.
In a 2013 CBS interview, we see the marked difference with which contemporary media has come to view King’s work: “You used to always get slotted in the Horror genre,” interviewer Anthony Mason commented to King. “And I think it was sort of a way of some people, I think, not treating you all that seriously as a writer.”
“I don't know if I want to be treated seriously per se, because in the end posterity decides whether it's good work or whether it's lasting work,” King replied, secure in his position as one of the best-loved authors of the 20th century.
But evolving cultural views on genre fiction aside, King’s writing has always displayed significant literary qualities, particularly ongoing literary themes that have shaped how we understand horror as well as ourselves.
In his award-winning 1981 collection of essays on horror, Danse Macabre, King names three emotions that belong to the realm of the horror genre: terror, horror, and revulsion. He argues that while all three emotions are of equal value to the creation of horror, the “finest” and most worthy is terror because it rests on the creator’s ability to command audiences’ imaginations. Drawing on numerous writers before him, he posits that never fully revealing the source of the horror is the best way to effect terror upon the mind.
King argues that the art of making us terrified about what lies around the corner is all about getting us to identify with the characters who are experiencing the terror. If we don’t care about the characters, then it won’t matter how many jump scares you fling at the audience — we have to be at least a little invested in their fate.
As such, King spends a great deal of time on characters’ interior lives, often jumping between different point-of-view characters throughout his novels. (For example, Salem’s Lot, It, and The Stand are all stories with large ensemble casts and multiple shifting points of view.) But every characterization, even a minor one, is rich with detail; even if you just met a new character, you can bet that by the time he or she meets a grisly ending a few pages later, you’ll have a deep understanding of who that character is.
King’s novels often contain deeply flawed yet sympathetic central characters surrounded by large ensemble casts full of equally flawed people, each struggling to interact and grapple with larger forces. By framing his stories within an interwoven web of narrative perspectives and juxtaposed character experiences, King is able to generate a feeling of interconnectivity, as well as explore the various literary themes that stretch throughout his multidimensional universe, including but not limited to:
King credits his absentee father for bequeathing him a love of horror via a stash of pulp novels King discovered as a boy. But another lasting legacy of this truncated relationship was King’s ongoing preoccupation with relationships between men and boys, the process of attaining manhood, and the bridge between boyhood and adulthood.
We see these bonds take a variety of shapes and meaning throughout his work, ranging from comforting (Salem’s Lot) to destructive (Apt Pupil) to ambiguous (The Shining). King explores male intimacy through these relationships, frequently challenging typical masculine forms of expression. He can do this because his boys and men tend to be nerds and outcasts who already exist outside traditional masculine norms. The bookish nerdy kid was relatively uncommon in mainstream adult fiction before King came along; now we recognize such characters as hallmarks of genre literature.
To King, the social markers that make kids outcasts in school — from being nerdy to being overweight to enduring acne — also make them uniquely outfitted to be conduits for readers’ social anxieties and fears. Because deep down, we’re all reliving the social terrors of school every day of our lives.
King frequently writes about the process of creation, often by exploring an artist who’s been prevented from creating in some way. The main characters of Salem’s Lot, The Shining, Misery, The Dark Half, Bag of Bones, 1408, and numerous short stories are all writers who’ve been in some way prevented from writing or thwarted in their creative efforts. Many of these and other artistic characters mirror King’s own real-life experiences; for example, the artist at the center of 2008’s Duma Key reflects his physical struggle to write following a highly publicized 1999 injury that made writing difficult for several years.
King has also been open throughout his career about his struggles with addictions ranging from alcohol to drug abuse to painkillers, and many of his main characters likewise struggle with addiction — either directly, in books like The Shining and Revival, or indirectly: The villain of Misery, Annie Wilkes, is a metaphor for cocaine itself.
Most people associate Stephen King with Maine and Maine with Stephen King. This is because King almost exclusively writes and sets his stories there. The town of Derry, for example, where It lives, is based on Bangor, Maine. Numerous fictional King towns, like Derry, Haven (the location of a 2010 TV series based on King’s mystery novel The Colorado Kid), and Castle Rock, exist in his works alongside real towns.
King uses these locations to increase the verisimilitude of his stories, painting them as all part of the same fictional universe. In stories like It, he borrows liberally from real places and landmarks, highways and scenery, even real street corners. And while Derry is the most famous of King’s fictional towns, Castle Rock is his most frequent destination, showing up over and over in his works.
King doesn’t only reuse places in his stories, however — he also reuses people. One popular villain, a recurring supernatural figure who may or may not be the devil, appears throughout the Stephen King universe in various guises. In The Dark Tower he’s “the Man in Black”; to the lost souls in The Stand, he’s a leader named Randall Flagg. In other stories, he’s a nebulous cast of characters with the initials “R.F.”
Frequently throughout his books, King will signal that his worlds are all connected by having characters meet characters from other books in passing. King characters also are frequently able to travel between narrative landscapes, with or without their awareness (The Shining, Gerald’s Game, Bag of Bones, Lisey’s Story). This interconnectivity becomes the central conceit of the Dark Tower, which explicitly links most of King’s stories together in one vast multiverse and explains that there are metaphysical doors between the worlds that allow all this to happen.
Part of the reason it may have taken critics so long to reassess King’s work is that “horror” implies the lower rungs of emotion King speaks of in Danse Macabre — the gross-outs and the physical gags that play into our understanding of the genre. But the key to his popularity as a horror novelist, and as a novelist in general, resides not in the darkest moments of his writing, but in his basic belief in humanity’s innate goodness.
He spells out his essentially hopeful, fundamentally romantic worldview in a 1989 interview:
There must be a huge store of good will in the human race. ... If there weren’t this huge store of good will we would have blown ourselves to hell ten years after World War II was over.
... It’s such a common thing, those feelings of love toward your fellow man, that we hardly ever talk about it; we concentrate on the other things. It’s just there; it’s all around us, so I guess we take it for granted ...
I believe all those sappy, romantic things: Children are good, good wins out over evil, it is better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all. I see a lot of the so-called “romantic ideal” at work in the world around us.
It’s this core optimism, more than his ability to scare us, that makes King so beloved by readers. Even in his bleakest works, he retains his ability to empathize deeply with his characters, and to see even his monsters as fundamentally human.
The ever-growing glut of great new TV, movies, books, music, comics, and podcasts can be a lot to keep up with. So we here at Vox Culture — where our current obsessions include an endlessly fun ’90s nostalgia mashup, the first trailer for Call Me by Your Name, and a wonderful interview with Billie Lourd — have a few suggestions for how to make the best use of your pop culture–consuming time.
Here are nine items to consider for your pop culture queue.
As far as internet content goes, it doesn’t get much more pandering than medleys of popular ’90s songs. But singer/dancer/all-around entertainer Todrick Hall always goes the extra mile or seven when it comes to his YouTube music videos (see: his 2016 visual album Straight Outta Oz), so it’s no surprise that his “4 the 90s” video overdelivers in a big way. Featuring a slick vocal arrangement that bounds at top speed from teen pop to R&B to grunge staples of the era, the medley finds Hall in perfect four-part harmony with himself, chair-dancing his way through some era-appropriate choreography (and wearing four different era-appropriate outfits, to boot). Good luck getting through it without bobbing along to all the nostalgic goodness. —Genevieve Koski
Earlier this year, Call Me by Your Name premiered at Sundance and sent the festival and the critics who screened it into a swoon. This week, we got our first glimpse of the gay love story, starring Armie Hammer and newcomer Timothée Chalamet, and it looks absolutely stunning. The only downside is having to wait until November to finally see it. —Alex Abad-Santos
Rep. Maxine Waters’s (D-CA) repeated declaration that she was “reclaiming my time” at last week’s House Financial Services Committee hearing launched a thousand memes, but one was the clear winner: Mykal Kilgore’s gospel reimagining of the refrain.
This gospel version of Reclaiming My Time by @mykalkilgore deserves a Grammy  pic.twitter.com/ABe7lt5vAL
Listen to the sweet, sweet harmonies on “Don’t read my résumé, ’cause I was there (I’m reclaiming my time),” and groove into the weekend on a strain of pure empowerment. This is the year’s novelty viral song to beat (sorry, “LaCroix Boi”). —Constance Grady
Written by Cecil Castellucci and drawn by artist Marley Zarcone, Shade, the Changing Girl is the story of what happens when a vaguely emu-ish alien named Loma Shade finds herself in a quarter-life crisis and does what any alien in such a situation would do: inhabit the body of a teenage earthling. Unfortunately for Loma, the body she chooses belongs to one Laura Boyer, the meanest girl in high school. DC Comics recently released the first six issues of Shade as a collected edition, and they’re well worth catching up on. —AAS
Portland rapper Aminé first made waves with the slow-burning, André 3000-indebted single “Caroline” last year. And now his debut album, Good for You, has established the 23-year-old as a dexterous, left-field creative committed to moving beyond his breakout single (and making sure you know how to correctly pronounce his name). The album is joyous and buoyant, with starry guest turns from Kehlani, Ty Dolla $ign, and Nelly. But it’s Aminé’s acerbic wit that steals the spotlight and makes him an ever-engaging frontman, as he rewards devoted listeners with barbs about his newfound fame that are both refreshing and funny (“White girls love me like my first name Coachella,” on “Yellow,” is particularly pointed). As many young rappers try their hand at the verbal equivalent of asemic writing, Aminé’s commitment to expertly articulating his experiences and intentions (as well as his name) is especially welcome. —Grant Rindner
Tamara Shopsin grew up running in and out of her family’s business in Greenwich Village. First it was a corner store, and then, when rent went up, it became a restaurant. (Shopsin says it was because her dad figured the profit margin on soda fountains was insane, and a restaurant would sell more soda than a corner store.)
To her family, the business was always known as “the Store,” but to the rest of the world, it was Shopsin’s, the legendary institution that Calvin Trillin wrote a love letter to in the New Yorker. JFK hung out there, and so did John Belushi. Some people have suggested that Shopsin’s father, Kenny, was the inspiration for Seinfeld’s Soup Nazi, a claim to which Kenny takes great offense: The Soup Nazi used a steam table, but Kenny cooks each soup to order.
Shopsin’s memoir is a tender elliptical remembrance of her childhood at the Store, and of Greenwich Village when it was, she writes, “still a village,” where “everyone knows who we are.” —CG
In A Heartbeat is the kind of feel-good story that’s easy to love. But what really sets the four-minute short film apart is the way it wordlessly depicts what it’s like to have a crush on someone. When a young boy develops feelings for one of his male classmates, his heart literally pops out of his chest to pursue the object of his affection — and threatens to accidentally out him to the rest of the boys’ school in the process. It’s a sweet journey through the physical roller coaster of burgeoning attraction that speaks volumes about the universality of love. —Abbey White
When Patti Smith met Sam Shepard four decades ago, she thought he was just a shaggy drummer with a “cowboy mouth.” It was only after the two struck up a friendship based on mutual admiration for literature that she learned he was also (already!) a renowned playwright.
Smith’s remembrance of Shepard — which the New Yorker published August 1, the day after Shepard’s death at age 73 — is bruising and gorgeous, painting a portrait of a man who “liked being on the move,” who could recite “reams of Beckett off the top of his head,” who made Smith understand the rich colors of the Southwest just by describing them. It’s a beautiful essay, and well worth the few minutes it takes to read it in full, but here’s a taste:
“Gogol was Ukrainian,” he once said, seemingly out of nowhere. Only not just any nowhere, but a sliver of a many-faceted nowhere that, when lifted in a certain light, became a somewhere. I’d pick up the thread, and we’d improvise into dawn, like two beat-up tenor saxophones, exchanging riffs.
—Caroline Framke
It’s more than understandable that Billie Lourd didn’t want to speak publicly after the sudden, sequential deaths of her mother, Carrie Fisher, and grandmother Debbie Reynolds last December. In fact, she owes us exactly nothing when it comes to sharing her grief. But Lourd’s first in-depth interview since they died — conducted for Town & Country by none other than actress Sarah Paulson — is thoughtful and generous.
She and Paulson have a great rhythm, swapping stories about Fisher and Reynolds that paint vivid pictures of the women they both clearly so admired so much. And fittingly for someone who grew up in the Fisher-Reynolds household, the interview is also funny, revealing Lourd to have a dry wit and game enthusiasm:
Sarah Paulson: I remember standing in the Red Room off the bar in the house and your mom saying to me, “You’ve got to find the funny, Paulson. If you don’t find the funny, you’re doomed.”
Billie Lourd: Oh, it’s so important. If life’s not funny, then it’s just true — and that would be unacceptable. Even when she died, that was what got me through that whole thing. When Debbie died the next day, I could just picture her saying, “Well, she’s upstaging me once again, of course — she had to.”
Read the full interview for more insights on Lourd’s future in acting, Reynolds’s insistence that Lourd “put an act together” to revive the “dying art,” and Fisher’s love of late-night Sharper Image shopping sprees. —CF
Radiohead is a band that can release an album and within minutes, fans around the world converge on the internet and theorize about every aspect of it: the significance of the date it was released, the imagery in the album cover, what the track titles really mean, where coded messages in the lyrics are — the list goes on and on.
Radiohead never really engages with these conspiracy theories. They don’t confirm or deny them. In an interview with the New Yorker, Phil Selway, the band’s drummer, said:
We’re dead set on the music. That’s the thread running through this whole thing. We met at school playing music together, and we still get together over music now. We like solving musical puzzles.
I'm entertained by fan theories, there's no doubt about that, but they rarely leave me satisfied. Those musical puzzles, though, are a whole other story. I always want to figure them out. And lucky for me, a slightly smaller but still fierce group of fans do too. (Hint: They’re mostly on Reddit.)
In my first episode of Vox Pop's new music series Earworm, I spoke with Warren Lain. He's a Radiohead enthusiast who also happens to be an incredibly talented musician and music teacher. In December 2016, he uploaded a 38-minute video to YouTube about a Radiohead song that I deeply love called "Videotape." He had been thinking specifically about the hidden patterns in this seemingly simple song for the better part of a decade. The reason? He realized, with the help of a few fan forums, that the album version of “Videotape,” a somber, monotonous song, has a highly complex and challenging hidden rhythm. The piano in the song, it turns out, is syncopated.
In the video above Warren and I, joined by Erin Barra, a professor at Berklee College of Music, discuss why this simple little slow song is one of Radiohead’s greatest achievements.
Subscribe to our YouTube Channel to see all Vox videos and to be notified when the next seven episodes of Earworm go live!
Kathryn Bigelow has said she likes “high-impact, high-velocity moviemaking.” And it shows in the director’s filmography, which has tackled everything from modern warfare dramas (The Hurt Locker, Zero Dark Thirty) to a surfer crime thriller (Point Break) to a vampire Western (Near Dark). One thing’s for certain when you watch a Bigelow movie: Your heart will be racing.
Detroit — a historical horror film with docudrama bumpers — is no exception. It’s a jarring movie that wants to make everyone who watches it angry, though for different reasons. Some will likely ding it for dialogue that feels too on the nose, too much like the statements about race and police force that we bandy about today; others might take issue with how the movie imagines real-life events without knowing with 100 percent certainty what happened.
On the other hand, that’s what all historical movies have to do. And Mark Boal, Bigelow’s collaborator on this film as well as The Hurt Locker and Zero Dark Thirty, works not just from a screenwriter’s toolbox but also a journalist’s, with a career writing for publications like Rolling Stone and The Village Voice before he moved over to Hollywood. So though no official account of what happened one night at Detroit’s Algiers Motel during the 1967 Detroit riots has been established, the film works from eyewitness recollections and accounts to recreate a version of the events that at least feels true to life.
Rating
As such, plenty of people will also leave Detroit angry because of the injustices it chronicles, and perhaps even more because so little seems to have changed in the half-century since. Detroit doesn’t paint all police or all white people as uniform caricatures of badness, nor does it patronizingly suggest that all black people are innocents. But it’s not interested in excusing anyone, either. Its goal is to make us into witnesses and bystanders — to put us into the shoes of those who stand by and watch, feeling helpless even when we’re not — something it achieves through confident, pulsating filmmaking and emotional performances.
That is why Detroit, however distressing it may be, is still important to watch: it seeks to make viewers understand a pivotal moment within a larger true story — one that is far from over.
The film starts (rather unexpectedly) with text over oil paintings that explain, succinctly and powerfully, the migration of African-Americans after slavery to the north, in search of work and a more equal society — only to be met with racism, restrictive housing practices, and “white flight” to the suburbs, all of which, as the subtitles tell us, led to heightened racial tensions by 1967.
Then it morphs into a re-creation of how the riots — some of the biggest in American history — got started: police raided an unlicensed club in the black part of town, and tensions in the street erupted into looting and violence that lasted for days. We see the first few days of this and the police force’s efforts to contain the violence, with one young white cop named Krauss (Will Poulter) shooting a fleeing man from the back and, after pleading self-defense, getting a stern warning from his superior down at the precinct.
Detroit makes clear how hard it is for the police to figure out how to handle the situation, especially the younger and jumpier officers who see black people — and black men in particular — not as fellow citizens but as “them.” This prevailing sense of otherness, obvious to the black characters but barely noticeable to even the white characters who believe themselves to not be racist, is everywhere in Detroit: in a theater where white folks sit listening to black Motown groups; in a motel where two white young women seem to think they’re just sowing some wild oats by hanging out with young black men; in the language of police officers who tell a friendly black security officer named Dismukes (John Boyega) that he’s “a solid guy”; and in the precinct, where young officers tell one another that “one mistake” shouldn’t ruin their lives.
One Motown group is about to go on stage when the police order the crowd to go home, responding to public safety concerns related to the ongoing riots — about which the people in the theater seem oddly unconcerned, perhaps because it’s in the “other” part of town. Two of the young men from the Motown group, Fred (Jacob Latimore) and Larry (Algee Smith), head over to the Algiers to hole up, and wind up hanging out with a group of young people who’ve also checked into the hotel’s annex. The group is mostly young black men, but includes two young white women from Ohio (Hannah Murray and Kaitlyn Dever), who eventually migrate to hanging out with an Army vet (Anthony Mackie) just returned from his second tour of duty.
But then someone decides it would be funny to shoot a toy gun toward where the police have set up their operation. They come running, and bring the National Guard with them.
What follows is a dynamic, extraordinary extended scene in which the police who arrive — Krauss and two partners, Demens (Jack Reynor) and Flynn (Ben O'Toole) — begin interrogating the inhabitants of the annex, lining them up against the wall and playing a “game” with them, ostensibly to get them to confess to who shot the gun and where it was hidden. It’s a brutal, heart-pounding stretch that feels most like home invasion horror, with Krauss as the sadistic, conscience-free aggressor, and no means of escape for his victims.
What makes Krauss even more frightening (and real) is that he manages to bully or frighten others into his cause by sheer conviction that he’s in the right. These guys hanging onto the wall and praying for salvation, he tells them, might not have actually shot this gun, but they’ve probably committed some kind of crime, and better to induce order through fear than not at all, right?
Bigelow’s preference for “high-impact, high-velocity moviemaking” is on full display in the interrogation sequence, and while it is uncomfortable, it’s also totally necessary to the story the film is telling.
An important component of what happened at the Algiers Motel is those who stood by with the power to stop it, but abdicated that position to those who had no interest in letting up. Not stopping violence against someone when you have the power to do so is as much an admission that you think of their humanity as less than yours as actually enacting that violence.
The way Bigelow films this sequence all but invites viewers to jump through the screen and make it stop, and to reckon with the fact that they can’t. Shaky, handheld camera work coupled with stark lighting and close shots of faces smeared by tears and sweat brings the audience right into the action. You can’t sit at a remove from Detroit. You are forced to sit in that hallway and be witness to the action.
Once that scene finally concludes, the film returns to docudrama mode, mostly in court (with John Krasinski as the police union’s lawyer), so we can find out what happened in the aftermath. But it also focuses on the traumatic after-effects of having your life invaded and your dignity roundly degraded. Detroit isn’t glib about either of these things, which takes it past ordinary horror filmmaking and back into the realm of something like social realism.
Detroit skillfully spreads its critique across a whole set of institutional rails on which injustice can run. It doesn’t try to excuse the looters and the violence, and it soundly condemns the powerful who apply a different set of standards to themselves than to others. But like Get Out, the film also vividly paints the kinds of racist thinking that are less violent, but also enable more aggressive actions.
So if the imagined dialogue seems sometimes pointedly drawn from 2017’s discourse on racism and police violence, it’s likely on purpose; it’s not as if the way people talk about race has changed as substantially as we might like. Individual people engage in racist thinking and violent behavior, but cultures exist at the intersection of people, ideas, institutions. You can’t divorce them from one another. And Detroit won’t let us forget this.
Throughout the film, the most complex and troubling character is Boyega’s Dismukes, a black security officer who initially places himself on the side of the police in an effort to defuse the situation and protect other black civilians from being unduly targeted. But as he watches, participates, and later realizes just what his role was in the proceedings, he grows increasingly sickened by it all.
Boyega’s fine performance telegraphs most of Dismukes’s growing dismay through his eyes, as he slowly realizes the system he counted on to treat everyone equally under the law simply isn’t going to do so. And that’s mirrored in Raynor’s performance, as an officer drawn into taking actions he’d never have otherwise because a colleague insisted it was necessary.
Meanwhile, most of the other officers depicted in the film are sickened and even outraged by the racist actions of their fellow officers. But they — and Michigan state troopers, and members of the National Guard — are reticent to take too much action to curtail them, and thus embroil themselves in that “civil rights stuff.”
But what would they have done differently? What would any of us? And how do we know for certain? It’s easy to say that we would act differently, as we might watching a film about Nazi Germany, or any historic human-on-human violence. In the heat of the moment, though, have we constructed the ethical apparatus to stand against an unjust action happening right before our eyes? Or would we say we want no part of this, and slip out the back door?
The reason films like Detroit are important isn’t just because they remind us that the more things change, the more they stay the same; it’s because watching them forces us to tread moral ground alongside the characters. If we’re willing, they give us the mental and emotional space — in a relatively low-stakes environment for us — to think through what we’re seeing on screen, measure our own reactions, and examine the reasons for them.
Participating in those exercises by suspending our egos and watching well-made movies like Detroit, which gives us a place to sit and shut up and just watch, is, I think, one of the most important morally formative things we can do in a world increasingly marked by low-stakes Twitter proclamations of what’s right and what’s wrong. And if we’re not willing to do that — even at the risk of being made uncomfortable — we may have to take a long look at ourselves and wonder why.
We all think we’re the good guy. I think I’m the good guy. But then I remember: So does everyone else.
Detroit is currently playing in limited theaters and opens wide on August 4.
Today’s Google Doodle celebrates Mexican actress and philanthropist Dolores Del Río, whose career was groundbreaking for Latin American actors. She was the first major Latin American crossover Hollywood star, even as she was hemmed in by the industry’s historically stereotypical and convoluted understanding of ethnicity and race.
Known for her beauty and elegance, María de los Dolores Asúnsolo López-Negrete was born August 3, 1904 in Durango, Mexico. The actress was first “discovered” in 1925 by Native American director Edwin Carewe, who convinced Del Río to move to the United States and signed her to an exclusive contract. That decision to move would pay off rather quickly, as she earned the attention of Hollywood producers and directors and solidified herself with various roles as a trailblazer for Latin Americans in film.
Del Río broke through in the world of silent film. Her very first role, in 1925’s Joanna, saw her billed as “Spanish” actress — but she fought to be billed as a Mexican actress, to reflect her true heritage.
As outlined by the New York Times, the first big movie she appeared in was Raoul Walsh’s What Price Glory? (1926), where she played a French peasant. She then earned starring roles in movies like 1927’s Resurrection and 1928’s Ramona.
Despite her undeniable talent, Del Río’s opportunities were limited by cinema’s Spicy Latina and Latin Lover tropes, with one New York Times reviewer even praising “the alluring Miss Del Río, with her bright eyes, pretty lips and lithe figure” for her “decidedly unrestrained portrait of the faithless creature” in 1927’s Loves of Carmen.
In the 1930s, Del Río triumphed in the film industry’s transition to “talkies” while other silent film stars struggled. She earned acclaim for her starring and supporting performances in films like Flying Down to Rio (1933) and Madame Du Barry (1934).
Still, she was repeatedly cast to play white characters, or Latin stereotypes. Eventually she would tire of Hollywood and the glamorous life, returning to Mexico in 1943.
Upon her return to the country, she found success on both the screen and stage, starring in several Spanish language films, like The Unloved Woman and Maria Candelaria. Maria Candelaria was not only the first Mexican film to screen at the Cannes Film Festival, in 1946, but won the festival’s Grand Prix award that same year.
Additionally, she co-starred alongside Henry Fonda in the 1947 film The Fugitive, which was made in Mexico.
Outside of film, Del Río was a devoted philanthropist and advocate of the arts. In 1957, she was selected as the first woman to sit on the Cannes Film Festival jury. In the 1960s, she co-founded the Society for the Protection of the Artistic Treasures of Mexico, an organization dedicated to preserving historical buildings and artwork in the country. And in the 1970s, she helped open a center to provide childcare for members of the Mexican Actors Guild.
Del Río, who died on April 11, 1983 in Newport Beach, California, spent her career — however challenging — doing what many others could not, and paving the way for more to follow. While much of Del Río’s Hollywood success came at the expense of her Mexican identity, her illustrious career in Mexico and off the screen illustrates her relentless pride and love for her homeland.
It was obvious at a Wednesday night screening of Dark Tower, the dreamed-of-for-decades screen version of Stephen King’s hybrid epic fantasy-Western series, that critics weren’t buying it.
And granted, there was a lot not to buy. Director Nikolaj Arcel’s cinematic interpretation (“adaptation” is a tricky descriptor for a bunch of reasons) of King’s series is a wildly ambitious attempt to take a sprawling story that spans many characters and multiple universes and turn it into an urban fantasy set mainly in New York City.
Rating
Except for King’s main character, Idris Elba’s Roland the Gunslinger — who isn’t even the main character of this movie — the other film characters are all composites of multiple characters from the book series. Except for the broadest central plot point — Roland pursues a man, played by Matthew McConaughey, who wants to destroy the Tower that keeps our universe and many others in balance — King’s ideas have been largely swept aside for a strange fusion of science fiction and Weird fiction disguised as a Young Adult fantasy.
Yet for all of this, Arcel’s film is fun, loving, scary, and often as genuinely compelling as it is wildly misguided. The Dark Tower may be a terrible, even baffling version of Stephen King’s The Dark Tower, but it’s highly enjoyable as a cinematic King fanfic. Here are four things you need to know to prepare for the journey.
For so, so many reasons, a reasonably faithful film version of all eight books of The Dark Tower was never going to happen. (Spoilers follow for the Dark Tower book series.)
Even if all of the complicated plot and character arcs and narrative side-quests and ultimate battles could have fit into the film’s remarkably slight 95-minute timeframe, the fact is that the Dark Tower book cycle is essentially unfinished. Fans don’t know what the “ending” of Roland’s quest looks like because King, intentionally, never wrote one. Instead, he revealed that the stories’ events are cyclical and have happened many times before. He also implied that the “next” time around could be the quest that finally succeeds and breaks the looping cycle.
Here end the spoilers.
In the new film, the key to that success lies with a boy named Jake (Tom Taylor), a psychic teen living in New York who’s been frenziedly drawing his constant visions of Roland, the Tower, and a mysterious Man in Black who wants to destroy it. Jake is convinced, correctly, that otherworldly beings wearing human faces are working for the Man in Black, kidnapping children from Jake’s world and using them to essentially direct psychic laser beams at the Tower. When they inevitably come for Jake, he uses the knowledge his visions have granted him to elude capture and escape through a multi-dimensional portal to Roland’s world, a vast barren wasteland.
The main elements and characters who help Roland along his journey in the book series have all been merged into Jake’s character, effectively turning Roland’s story into Jake’s story — perhaps because at heart all Stephen King stories are about boys learning to be men. Here, it is Jake who must find Roland, learn about the Tower, and ultimately stop the Man in Black from blowing it up. If that happens, Roland assures Jake, the darkness the Tower currently holds at bay — an implied nebula of strange Lovecraftian cosmic terrors — will encroach upon all of their separate worlds.
Jake teams up with a reluctant Roland to travel from the desolate outposts of Roland’s world back into the bustle of New York, where they hope to find a portal to the Man in Black’s lair in order to destroy it before it can destroy the Tower. Along the way, they battle a strange attic-destroying demon, more Lovecraftian monsters, attacks from the Man in Black’s henchman, and Roland’s own warring sense of purpose: does he want mere revenge against the Man in Black for past wrongs, or does he want to save the world?
As Jake, Tom Taylor is clear-eyed and defiant, a fine foil for Idris Elba’s world-weary gunslinger. Although the movie is never quite sure what it wants to do with Jake’s powers, and seems to have no idea whether he’s a future gunslinger or not, Taylor pulls off a small miracle, in that he doesn’t make you resent that he’s the main character of this show instead of Roland. Taylor owns his role with an endearing, wary confidence. The rapidly forming bond between Jake and Roland — one of the most crucial elements of the Dark Tower series — and Jake’s power both become believable in Taylor’s hands. If mistrustful surly teenage glares are evidence of psychic abilities, Jake could probably take over the world.
When the role of Roland went to Idris Elba, incensed Stephen King fans complained because King’s long been on record as envisioning the Gunslinger, the last remaining member of an order of soldiers who defend Roland’s world from darkness, as a Clint Eastwood type — in other words, white. Elba proves those fans and their outrage wrong before he ever says a word. Strong and silent, his Roland is an exhausted, heartbroken loner who slowly comes alive and learns to hope again over the course of the film thanks to his encounter with Jake.
We may not see the events that have taken place over the course of the Dark Tower series in this film, but Elba’s Roland has internalized them all the same. Whenever he aims a weapon, you fully believe that he kills not with his gun but with his heart — part of the Gunslinger creed. Elba is the physical embodiment of Roland, and he’s so committed to his vague, barely explained quest that he stays the film’s most deeply compelling figure, even if he’s no longer the main protagonist. When we finally see Roland attempting to interact with random people in modern-day New York, and see how out of place he is, the comedic moments are tinged with sadness: here is a man out of time who’s truly lost everything, won’t regain it, and knows it.
Without Idris Elba, Dark Tower could easily collapse under the weight of its own nonsense. Instead, he serves as its linchpin — something the unwieldy film desperately needs. As the Man in Black, Matthew McConaughey seems alternately bored and confused by his own motivations in The Dark Tower. He mainly seems to be doing all of this — kidnapping children and forcing them to shoot psychic laser beams at a multi-dimensional fortress — in order to annoy his old friend Roland. (Their history and former relationship are never fully explained.) He also seems to be aware, as Roland isn’t, that they have done all of this many times before, giving their dynamic an uneasy imbalance.
But while McConaughey’s Man in Black isn’t truly menacing so much as oozing snake oil, the glimpses we get of the monsters the Tower is keeping at bay are creepy and fun. The film’s special effects are top-notch, and a reminder that King’s entire multiverse hinges on a Weird fiction view of the horrors out there in the cosmos. That the film features a nebula of creepy monsters from the beyond may make it feel like a Stranger Things ripoff to some viewers, but don’t be misled: Arcel is in fact honoring King’s longstanding Lovecraftian tradition.
Arcel also does his best to run with the interconnectivity of King’s universe, something that links many of his books but has really never made its way into a screen adaptation until now. The Dark Tower universe essentially ties all of King’s universes together; characters from the Dark Tower appear in other books, and characters throughout his fiction move between the worlds held in place by the Tower. On film, save for one element, these multiple worlds feel superimposed: a long-ruined theme park dedicated to “Pennywise” in Roland’s world implies that It’s shapeshifting titular character once ran the joint; a portal dubbed 1408 implies that the demonic hotel room of King’s 1408 is but a jaunt away; other subtler references to Salem’s Lot, Needful Things, and The Shining occur throughout the film.
Only one element we’ve seen before in a Stephen King film makes a dent on the plot: the Shining itself. Fans of Stephen King, or of the Kubrick film, may recall that the “shine” is a rare psychic ability to read minds and sense the future. Throughout Dark Tower, Jake is informed that he “shines,” that he has “the shine,” and that this is a rare gift — so rare we’ve seen it only in a few King characters here and there over the decades. This, too, might feel superimposed on the film, but it’s a loving reflection of the ongoing interconnectedness of King’s worlds — a crucial aspect of the Dark Tower series.
From the first scene, when we see a group of children being creepily herded to their psychic laser beam-launchers with absolutely no context, The Dark Tower has a rushed, middle-of-the-battle feel that it never fully loses.
But that’s not really a bad thing. In fact, that’s partly what makes the film so much fun. It foregoes lengthy exposition and backstories, and while that makes for a disjointed narrative structure, it allows for a fast-paced story told mainly through scares and monsters and plenty of gunfights and Idris Elba asking Jake if the animals in his world still speak. (It also gets an assist from a tonally perfect score from Tom Holkenborg.) There’s a basic, wondrous glee in The Dark Tower that makes it feel more like a Stephen King film than any other Stephen King film since Stand By Me.
There are probably plenty of reasons to hate The Dark Tower if you go in looking for them. But if you go in expecting a fun fantasy with heart and a few scares, you may find plenty to love as well.
After all: We do not watch Stephen King movies with our brains. We watch Stephen King movies with our hearts.

Last November, Dave Chappelle was the host of Saturday Night Live on the weekend after the election and immediately made headlines. His 11-minute monologue veered from jokes to personal reflections to the history of black people in the White House, and concluded with this: “I’m wishing Donald Trump luck. And I’m going to give him a chance. And we, the historically disenfranchised, demand that he give us one too.”
Related
At the time, “let’s give him a chance” was a particularly weighted phrase. For many on the left, it seemed that those on the right were using it as a cudgel to try to shame them into not being so angry about the election results. In some circles, it even became a meme to pass around a quote from a prewar German citizen opining that Germany should give the National Socialists a chance.
So Chappelle’s call to give Trump a chance was not particularly well received, a fact of which he’s very aware (he apologized for it in May). But when he appeared on The Late Show Wednesday night, host Stephen Colbert asked him to revisit the idea. “Now that we’re seven, eight months in,” Colbert asked, “how do you feel about the chances that [Trump’s] been given?”
“It’s not like I wanted to give him a chance that night,” Chappelle pointed out. But he does see a small silver lining in Trump’s presidency: It’s gotten people so angry that they’re learning a lot. “I don’t know that I’ve ever heard in popular discourse people discussing ethics this much. I didn’t even know how ethics were necessarily supposed to work at that level of the government.”
He also suggested that white Americans, in particular, are learning. “I feel like a lot of white Americans got to see what an election night feels like for many black Americans, every cycle,” he said: the shock and despair of seeing someone who seems devoted to turning back progress elected to the chief executive office.
But Chappelle remains hopeful. He sees Trump’s presidency as part of a cycle, a backlash to Barack Obama’s presidency that will eventually circle back around. “This is how traction works. I think it speaks to how effective Obama’s presidency was. Donald Trump’s the other foot: good foot, bad foot, good foot, bad foot.”
So although Chappelle is clearly not a Trump fan, he’s hopeful that Trump has progressive Americans so angry that, in the end, “He’s going to make a more informed and better voter.”
And in the meantime, Chappelle believes that America will endure. Trump, he says, “is like a bad DJ at a good party.”
When the 20th anniversary of Harry Potter rolled around at the end of June, the internet brimmed with Potter-related content galore. But one of the most popular observances of the anniversary was that old reliable: the Hogwarts sorting quiz, which reveals to all who take it which of the four houses of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry is the best fit for them. Will they be deemed a brave and chivalrous Gryffindor? A wise and clever Ravenclaw? A cunning, ambitious Slytherin? A kind, chill Hufflepuff?
Time magazine quickly won the laurels for the most scientifically meaningful test — the publication worked with social scientists to identify measurable psychological traits, which it then associated with each house. But there are plenty of other Hogwarts sorting quizzes available online, each with their devotees. There’s the Pottermore quiz, which is technically the “official” quiz, since it was designed by J.K. Rowling herself. There’s the cult favorite Almighty Guru quiz. And of course there are multiple options on BuzzFeed, and more all over the web.
FOUNDER OF HOGWARTS: okay, so we all know there are four types of kid. brave, smart, evil and miscellaneous.SCHOOL BOARD: yes, continue.
Sorting quizzes are silly and fun, but they can also cause existential crises. A longtime self-identified Slytherin I know was furious when Time’s quiz sorted her into Gryffindor, and decided that she would take it over and over again until it gave her the answer she wanted. After the Pottermore quiz debuted in 2011, Twitter and Reddit were awash with confusion from Harry Potter fans who had spent years identifying with one house but had been just been sorted into another, and now had to figure out why.
It’s the type of scenario that causes people to really question their sense of self: If you’ve always thought you’re a heroic Gryffindor and then a bunch of online quizzes tell you that you belong in Ravenclaw, or if you think of yourself as a cunning, ambitious Slytherin but you test into Hufflepuff, what does that say about you? That’s why, years ago in the dark ages of the internet, the phrase “bartending in the dark” became a meme after a disgruntled Harry Potter fan insisted that a fandom sorting community should sort him into Slytherin despite their refusal to do so, because after all, he bartended in the dark.
Beyond the Hogwarts sorting quiz, there are dozens of popular ways of classifying your personality. There’s astrology, which in many ways is the OG Hogwarts quiz. There’s Meyers-Briggs, beloved by corporations across the country, which has been proven to be psychologically meaningless but which is, I must admit, is my personality quiz of choice. (You can tell I’m an INTP because I have spent hours reading about cognitive function stacks in order to get a more accurate typing, even though I don’t believe that Meyers-Briggs is a real thing.) Few of these personality tests, in fact, measure anything that psychologists believe can actually be measured — but that doesn’t stop the tests from being extremely fun to take.
The Meyers-Briggs test revolves around dualities that don’t really exist (introversion and extroversion, for instance, are assessed on a sliding scale, and are not opposites) and is entirely based on outmoded Jungian theories. And Time magazine’s Hogwarts sorting quiz may have some scientific basis, but most of the sorting quizzes scattered across the internet are impressionistic and silly and make no claims about scientific accuracy. The horoscopes in every newspaper are a weird hangover from 19th-century mysticism that persist because they’re fun, but have absolutely no scientific basis whatsoever (and tabloid astrology is widely discredited by serious astrologers, too).
So what is it about personality quizzes like the Meyers-Briggs test and the Hogwarts sorting quiz and newspaper horoscopes and BuzzFeed’s entire quiz category that are so immensely compelling? Why are we drawn to them even when we know they don’t mean anything?
The answer lies in a very real, widely documented psychological concept.
Tribalism is a basic part of the way human brains work: We find our group, we stick to it, and the tribe to which we belong fundamentally affects the ways in which we perceive the world.
In the 1970s, social scientist Henri Tajfel ran a series of experiments that showed how incredibly easy it is to get ordinary people into a tribal mentality. It’s called the “minimal group design,” and it basically goes like this: Researchers will assign people to opposing teams (named for colors, animals, favorite authors) just by flipping a coin. The team can be made up of total strangers. But still, people start to favor their teammates almost instantaneously. At the end of the experiment, all of the subjects are isolated and told to split a pool of money between two other people, one from their team and one from the opposing team.
Overwhelmingly, Tajfel’s subjects awarded more money to fellow members of their team, even though they were all well-aware that their group was based on practically nothing. Preference for one group or another — tribalism — is consistently pleasurable to human brains, even when we know that there is no real reason for it. And that tribalist instinct can extend to something as silly and frivolous as Hogwarts houses.
“People identify with all kinds of groups,” says Jay Van Bavel, a professor of psychology and neural science at NYU. “That includes everything from your favorite sports team or your country, to seemingly arbitrary groups, like going to the gym and forming a pickup basketball team for the day, or identifying with Apple or Microsoft. Tribalism is deeply burned into the ways our brains and minds operate, and it manifests in all different kinds of ways.”
In recent months, most of the popular writing about tribalism has focused on how it affects political parties and leads to the bubble effect, wherein members of one political tribe seek out viewpoints that conform with their own and avoid conflicting information, because conflicting information feels unpleasant and hearing ideas you agree with feels good. Often, people will go out of their way to interpret information in a way that lines up with their own tribal ideology. That’s how important tribes are to our brains.
This research is usually used to talk about political polarization, but it also explains why personality tests are so seductive. (Republicans versus Democrats: like the Hogwarts houses, but with real-world stakes!) There is something wildly compelling about the idea that by identifying with a personality type, you have found your group.
It’s a tribalist instinct that feels as though it has a kind of purity to it. You can’t choose your family, it’s legally complicated to choose your country, and friendships often develop out of some sort of geographic convenience. But an affiliation based on personality type feels as though it’s built on an objective truth. Your personality matches with this particular group, and that’s a fact. (It’s not really, because again, these tests are not scientifically meaningful, but it feels like a fact.)
And it’s a tribalist fantasy that gives the individual a sense of control. In real life, once you belong to a group, your brain will alter the way you see the world in order to make you mesh with the group more easily. But in the fantasy, you pick a group because it already meshes perfectly with your brain. No alteration is required on your part.
The idea of personality-based tribalism is the dystopian impulse behind the first volume of the YA series Divergent, and it’s the utopian impulse behind recent books like Ada Palmer’s Too Like the Lightning: Imagine a world in which your closest relationships are based not on where you grew up or who you’re related to, but instead center on the people with whom your personality meshes. They’re based on what you value most and hold to be most important in life. How pure. How ideal. How compelling.
And on a much smaller level, the same utopian fantasy is what leads us to indulge in games like the Hogwarts sorting quizzes and the Meyers-Briggs test and newspaper horoscopes, even when we know them to be fake. They satisfy our brains’ tribalist impulses, and they also give us the illusion of control: You are part of this particular group, you will fit in perfectly, and nothing about you will ever need to change. Fantasies don’t get much more seductive than that.
Having said that, I’m a Ravenclaw. What about you?
Taylor Sheridan is one of Hollywood’s buzziest screenwriters, with a reputation for serious, violent dramas set in America’s overlooked places: on the US–Mexico border in Sicario, and in recession-plagued West Texas in Hell or High Water, for which he received an Oscar nomination.
The two films feel like companion pieces: Both focus on those who enforce the law and those who try to circumvent it. And both show a keen understanding of the complexities that local law enforcement officers must navigate when federal matters — like drug trafficking and the mortgage crisis — are involved. A sense of justice matters more than strictly legal notions of what’s “right” and “wrong,” as does the status of the person exacting the justice: Are they a local with a deep sense of the place they’re in? Or are they not from around here?
Rating
Wind River moves these questions north, to a tiny town a few hours from Jackson Hole, Wyoming, near a Native American reservation. A local game hunter named Cory Lambert (Jeremy Renner) is working as a US Fish and Wildlife officer and tracking a lion that has been spotted on the reservation; in the process, he runs across the body of a dead young woman (Kelsey Asbille), barefoot in the snow and showing signs of both beating and brutal rape. But she’s miles from any structure, and Lambert has no idea how she got there.
He calls his friend Ben (Graham Greene), a member of the Tribal Police, to help investigate — and because it’s a murder, the FBI sends an agent, too: Jane Banner (Elizabeth Olsen), who travels from Las Vegas because she’s the closest free agent.
Ben, Jane, and Cory investigate the murder, and the story unknots itself slowly and a bit painfully. Everyone has some deep trauma in their lives. Cory is white, but his ex-wife is Native American and he feels most comfortable on the reservation, with people he’s known his whole life — including the young woman’s father, Martin (Gil Birmingham), whose grief at the loss of his daughter is immense. The line between Jane and the locals, though, is hard to miss. And everyone has something to learn.
A feeling of deep despair suffuses everyone in the film, all of whom feel abandoned in this remote, forsaken corner of the country, from the young Native American men who’ve turned to drugs to the grizzled, angry white men working and drinking themselves to death nearby. People talk about leaving, but they don’t really seem to follow through.
There is much to admire in Sheridan’s filmmaking, both in his writing and in his direction. His landscapes are starkly beautiful, his actors (especially Renner) seem comfortable and confident in their roles, and his stories are continually surprising and sometimes truly shocking. He writes characters whose attachments to one another and motivations for what they do are deeply emotional — not always a given in thrillers — and give the audience plenty of room to feel empathy, even for those who are clearly in the wrong.
That said, as with the previous two films in this de facto Sheridan trilogy, there’s something a bit off-putting about Wind River. The score is distracting — at one point employing a male vocalist during a scene that would have been better served with the starkness of silence — but you can get used to it after a while.
But the larger issue is that the trauma endured by the characters is so unrelenting, so utterly bleak, that it risks becoming a caricature of pain. Unlike Hell or High Water, which had its moments of gallows humor, Wind River is deadly serious at all times, with no space for any human connection other than the saddest kind. And while there’s no reason to crack a lot of jokes to lighten the mood, it can start to feel like the movie relies too heavily on despair, to the point of capitalizing on its characters’ suffering — and, given the realism of Sheridan’s films, the suffering of people like them.
That’s a bit jarring in Wind River, a film with many Native American characters (and thus the rare Hollywood movie with many roles for Native American actors). As I watched, I tried to remember if I’d ever seen a mainstream film set on a reservation that didn’t have white people as protagonists and didn’t focus sharply on rampant drug use or trafficking.
I still haven’t thought of one. That’s not Sheridan’s fault, and it wouldn’t be fair to ding him for an industry-wide issue. But in this case, it’s of a piece with Wind River as a whole, as well as symptomatic of a larger issue in Hollywood.
Still, as a film and as a story, Wind River is a good movie, and very nearly an excellent one. And Sheridan’s interest in the places America tries to forget — and how local identity and alliances affect the rule of law in those places — makes him a vital filmmaker for America right now.
Wind River opens in theaters on August 4.
Sharknado, the five-film Syfy franchise that seemingly exists to be mocked (and completely welcomes the mocking) seems a lot more serious once you look at its main star’s salary. According to a report from the Hollywood Reporter, Ian Ziering is making $500,000 for the fifth movie in the series, which debuts this weekend, and is out-earning his co-star Tara Reid:
For Sharknado 5, everything is bigger, starting with the budget ($3 million, double the cost of the original) and star salaries — Ziering now makes $500,000 per picture. Asylum manages to limit costs when it comes to Reid's paycheck — she makes about a quarter of what her male co-star earns on each installment.
Ziering’s salary is eyebrow-raising not only because of the wage gap that exists between him and Reid but also because it’s a lot of money for a franchise that, according to THR’s numbers, peaked at 3.87 million viewers for 2014’s Sharknado 2. To put that number in perspective, in early 2017, a midseason episode of the CBS sitcom Kevin Can Wait drew almost double that number, with 7.33 million total viewers.
Given those ratings, it’s unclear how profitable the Sharknado franchise is — the exact numbers are hard to find. This fifth installment reportedly had a budget of $3 million, and Asylum, the studio that produces the franchise, had a $5 million profit in 2012.
But its true draw may be the attention its cameos and ridiculous storylines typically receive in the news and on social media: THR reports that the first film, for example, was the subject of as many as 5,000 tweets per minute.
Ziering’s salary becomes even more striking when you consider it in the context of the summer’s biggest movie so far, Warner Bros. and DC Comics’ Wonder Woman. Star Gal Gadot’s base salary for the film was $300,000 — a full $200,000 less than Ziering’s Sharknado 5 paycheck — and the movie has since made more than $789 million worldwide.
Gadot’s salary became the target of outrage earlier this summer after someone erroneously claimed that she was paid more than $10 million less for Wonder Woman than Henry Cavill was paid for 2013’s Man of Steel. Though her salary was largely in line with what other actors have been paid for debut superhero movies — in 2010, for example, Chris Evans was reportedly paid around $300,000 to star in Captain America: The First Avenger — many people felt, in the wake of Wonder Woman’s success, that Gadot had been shortchanged for her role.
One can only assume that when it’s time to negotiate for Wonder Woman 2, she’ll demand at least as much as Ziering earns for Sharknado.
Head over to THR to learn everything you ever wanted to know about how the Sharknado sausage is made.
A new Twitter hashtag, #FirstTimeISawMe, is spotlighting both the evolution and stagnation of representation in media and pop culture.
Officially launched on August 1 by Netflix as a celebration of inclusive media and Netflix’s own diverse programming, the hashtag was intended to start a conversation about the first time that people saw themselves represented on television.
But even though it began as a marketing campaign — complete with Netflix asking several high-profile celebrities and entertainment writers to participate —#FirstTimeISawMe has clearly struck a nerve, inspiring plenty of people with a variety of identities and backgrounds to speak candidly about how specific television characters have impacted their perceptions of themselves.
Many people have shared positive experiences with seeing themselves represented in a variety of media, highlighting the substantial role that such representation can play in people’s everyday lives.
#FirstTimeISawMe or who I wanted to be. Maxine Shaw, Attorney at Law. pic.twitter.com/cFkr3XbDn1
The #FirstTimeISawMe was in the Culture Shock episode of The Proud Family. I'll never forget how emotional it made me at age 10. pic.twitter.com/mYrGYmTtv1
Judge away: Girls was the first time I saw a body that looked like mine where weight wasn't the character's main concern #FirstTimeISawMe https://t.co/ekmZr5vcfH
Aja from Jem and the Holograms. She was a cool tomboy into music, a wiz in electronics, and a former foster kid. #FirstTimeISawMe pic.twitter.com/ZWtqFK7MgY
#FirstTimeISawMe in the music I listened to as a bisexual woman of color was through @halsey. I was 22. changed my life. I finally felt free
#FirstTimeISawMe Parminder Nagra in Bend It Like Beckham: an Indian girl whose dreams were outside the norm of what's expected. pic.twitter.com/5com3c3Og1
The conversation has also offered a glimpse at how personally meaningful representation can change over time.
As an adult now, I resonate with Living Single so much more. That's me and my girlfriends #FirstTimeISawMe pic.twitter.com/NpWQgzNaYA
I just realized I made this about dudes, but that's all I had. Mindy didn't show up till 2005.
However, it’s simultaneously called attention to how the progression of inclusion isn’t always linear or all-encompassing, with some #FirstTimeISawMe respondents pointing out how poor representation has been for particular communities. Some people have lamented that they haven’t seen any representation of themselves onscreen, while others have raised criticisms over how authentic or respectful various portrayals have been.
When I was a child watching the Selena movie, even though they used a Puerto Rican to depict a Mexican #FirstTimeISawMe pic.twitter.com/5YPeUpcgsI
And for me, for queer people: we need to see more stories that are positive. More Gender Non Conforming characters. #thefirsttimeisawme
As long as Hollywood uses non-disabled actors in disabled roles & whitewash POC characters, it'll be a while b4 I can say #FirstTimeISawMe
Those sorts of responses have underscored how there’s plenty of room for improvement when it comes to representation in media.
Jamie Broadnax, who founded the Black Girl Nerds website — which was one of seven media outlets Netflix selected to officially participate in the #FirstTimeISawMe campaign — has been involved in media representation conversations for years. But she told Vox that certain responses to the hashtag were something she had “stumbled upon for the first time.”
“My friend Alice Wong, who has a disability — she actually runs the Disability Visibility Project — had retweeted the video we published saying, ‘Hey, anyone out there with disabilities, do you relate to this tag?’” Broadnax said. “A lot of the people that tweeted said they couldn’t see themselves in any sort of properties. It made me sad, but it also told me that there’s a lot more work that needs to be done. There’s still a large contingent of people out there that don’t see themselves.”
In 2016, a University of Southern California analysis revealed that of the 414 recent films and television series it surveyed, only 28.3 percent of speaking characters were from underrepresented racial/ethnic groups. Around a third of speaking characters were female; 2 percent were lesbian, gay, or bisexual; and less than 1 percent were transgender.
A different USC analysis released the same year surveyed 800 films released between 2007 and 2015 and found that “only 2.4 percent of all speaking or named characters were shown with a disability.” And according to GLAAD’s most recent “Where We Are Now” report, 1.7 percent of regular broadcast characters during the 2016-’17 television season were people with disabilities — a marked increase over the previous season’s 0.9 percent and “the highest percentage since GLAAD began tracking disability statistics in 2010,” but still a small number.
Broadnax says she hopes #FirstTimeISawMe will encourage positive change.
“I’m a part of another hashtag campaign that has gotten quite controversial — for the Confederate show on HBO,” she said, referring to the recent #NoConfederate hashtag that has been used to protest the newly announced project, which is set in an “alternate timeline” where slavery is still legal in the US.
“A lot of viewers don’t want to see that kind of content, and they are participating to say that,” Broadnax said. She also noted that social media gives viewers a powerful opportunity to publicly tell studios and networks what they think of their programming offerings.
“So if it’s something that we don’t or do want to see, then we’re going to say something about it.”
Today is National Coloring Book Day (at least according to the publisher who deemed it so), but unfortunately for the fat cats of Big Coloring Book (that’s a thing, right?), things are not looking good for the industry.
In late 2015, the adult coloring book trend was the hottest thing in publishing. Adult coloring books were devoid of the movie tie-ins and cartoons and fairies and princesses that characterize children’s coloring books. They were coloring books designed for grownups, with intricate, elaborate patterns that required advanced motor skills to color in (like Johanna Basford’s Secret Garden). They were designed to soothe grownup anxiety (Stress Relieving Patterns) and to appeal to grownup senses of humor (Have a Nice Life, Asshole).
Related
They were extremely popular and extremely profitable, and they more or less came out of nowhere. In 2014, 1 million coloring books were sold; in 2015, 12 million were sold. The coloring book craze even drove an echo boom in coloring pencils, with sales increasing by 26.4 percent in 2015 from 2014.
For publishing, this trend was a godsend. Coloring books drove sales in the craft and hobby category up 133 percent in the first months of 2016. In the adult nonfiction category as a whole, they drove up sales by 12 percent, even while sales in more traditional nonfiction categories, like biography and travel, fell. Coloring books were helping to stabilize a foundering industry.
The trend wouldn’t last. By December, booksellers reported that coloring book sales had begun to sag, leading to Barnes & Noble’s worst holiday quarter in 10 years. This March, Barnes & Noble reported that its store sales had fallen 8.3 percent over the quarter and blamed the decline, in part, on decreasing coloring book sales. (Another contributor: The fact that Adele’s album 25 wasn’t selling as well as it did earlier. Get it together, Adele.)
“Sales [of adult coloring books] have slowed, but we don’t think the market will go away,” said one publisher optimistically at the New York International Toy Fair this February. “We’re not adding as many new titles, but we continue to publish into coloring, especially with niche audience subjects and things where we have retailer requests,” said another. “There’s still interest.”
Adult coloring books will likely continue to make money, but they are no longer making enough money to single-handedly carry publishing through a slump. The highest point of the fad appears to be well and truly over.
Judith Jones, the great book editor who discovered both Julia Child and The Diary of Anne Frank, died on Tuesday, according to New York Times reporter Kim Severson. She was 93 years old.
Jones never thought of herself as a cookbook editor, but she’s best known for the cookbooks she shepherded into being. She championed writers who were interested in changing the way America ate in the bland postwar era of canned food: Julia Child, James Beard, Madhur Jaffrey, Lidia Bastianich.
And Jones came by that ambition honestly. Her memoir The Tenth Muse opens with a description of the kind of food she grew up eating in the 1930s: no garlic, onions only in a lamb stew, and then only “two or three well-boiled small white onions per person.” Talking about food was forbidden, she writes; “it was considered crude, like talking about sex.” Jones unapologetically adored the Anglo-Saxon food of her youth (all those carbs and organ meats!), but when she moved to France after college, she fell in love with the French attitude toward food — the fresh ingredients, the flavors, the cultural consensus that food was important and worthy of appreciation.
She couldn’t stand the idea that the people she knew back home were still cooking so sadly and so stodgily. She sent her mother a recipe for “Frenchified meatloaf,” a desperate attempt to pass along her new food knowledge in a familiar form. The recipe calls, optimistically, for garlic to be minced up and mixed thoroughly into the ground meat, but Jones suggested to her mother that if she truly couldn’t bear the thought of eating garlic, instead she might just slice the cloves up and put them on top of the meatloaf while it bakes, and then instantly remove them before serving. (The full recipe is in The Tenth Muse; it is more involved than you might think meatloaf should be, but it is very good; it comes out tasting like a meatloaf/pâté hybrid.)
Julia Child’s Mastering the Art of French Cooking came to Jones when she was back in the US, working for Knopf. She was a rising star, having just convinced Doubleday not to reject an early manuscript of The Diary of Anne Frank. But while her career was on an upswing, she was feeling dispirited over how terrible the food culture was.
“I realized first thing how hideous the ingredients were,” she told Eater in 2015. And most of the food writing at the time wasn’t about making the most of what flavor was available, but about minimizing your time in the kitchen — not, to her mind, what the point of cooking is. “The goal is making a delicious dinner,” she said.
So when Mastering the Art of French Cooking appeared on her desk, “I just couldn't believe it. It was as though somebody sent a present for me.”
Judith Jones taught me how to cook. I was 21 and living on my own for the first time, trying to cook for myself, and I couldn’t figure out how to scale regular recipes into something a single person could eat. My mother sent me The Pleasures of Cooking for One, the cookbook Jones wrote about cooking for herself after the death of her husband, and I made it my bible.
Many of the recipes in that book were too elaborate for me. I could not, for instance, imagining purchasing myself a personal soufflé dish, fluted, 2¾ inches high and 4 inches in diameter, and making myself a single perfect serving of soufflé, as Jones apparently did on the regular. But the thing that stuck with me was her unshakable belief in the idea that feeding yourself good food is an act of self-respect.
“I always love the moment of drama,” she writes, “when everything comes together and I quickly dish up my handiwork, arranging it pleasingly on a warm plate, and then take it to the table, where I’ve set a place for one with a cloth napkin in a family napkin ring. I open up the wine and light the candles, turn on some music, and give thanks.”
On Tuesday night, when I hadn’t yet heard of Jones’s death, I was noodling around the kitchen, trying to figure out what to cook for myself. I had a little leftover roast chicken in my fridge, but not really enough for a meal, and a few mushrooms and some cream and a little sad, wilted parsley. “Judith will know what to do,” I thought, so I pulled out my worn, stained copy of The Pleasures of Cooking for One and flipped through for her list of things to do with leftover poultry. “Minced chicken on toast,” Jones advised, so I chopped my mushrooms fine and sautéed them in butter with half a shallot, and then threw in the chicken and a little dried thyme, used the cream to bind it all together, and sprinkled the parsley on top.
I spooned the whole thing onto toast and ate it with my fingers. It tasted old-fashioned and weirdly French, even though minces on toast are about as Anglo-Saxon as it gets, and nourishing and satisfying. It tasted like self-respect, I decided, and slid the book back onto its shelf.
Judith Jones didn’t just shape the way I came to think about food and cooking; she helped shape the way America came to think about food in the second half of the 20th century. She brought us ambassadors from other culinary traditions, and she championed cookbooks that focused on food above efficiency. She was an integral part of this country’s culinary development away from a focus on convenience at the expense of health and flavor, and toward one that prizes food and cooking as part of its culture.
"Judith! We were born at the right time,” Julia Child used to tell Jones. "Yes, Julia,” Jones would respond, “but we had to act on it."
Over the past decade, stories of auto plant closures have become unnervingly common, but often they’re reduced to statistics about unemployment and the number of jobs leaving a city. Janesville, Wisconsin, is one of these cities: Its General Motors plant largely shuttered in December 2008 (closing for good in April 2009) and Rock County lost approximately 9,000 jobs between 2008 and 2009. But writer Amy Goldstein didn’t want to simply give a flyover view of Janesville’s struggles, and in her new book, Janesville: An American Story, she sought to capture deeply personal stories of hardship, as well as of the resiliency shown by Janesville residents.
“My basic idea was to try to create a kaleidoscope, so you would see from different vantage points what this dramatic loss of jobs looked like from different peoples’ perspectives,” Goldstein tells Vox critic at large Todd VanDerWerff on the latest episode of his podcast, I Think You’re Interesting.
“I’m not an opiner for a living, I’m a journalist who prefers to keep neutrality and credibility with people on all sides of the issues I’m writing about,” says Goldstein, who is a staff writer for the Washington Post. “I really wanted to show this story from lots of peoples’ perspectives; I didn’t want to take sides. At the same time, I felt as if I couldn’t ignore that this was a period of five years during which the politics of what was going on in Wisconsin were becoming harsher.”
VanDerWerff asks Goldstein what she feels we miss when we talk about these kinds of stories from a purely statistical standpoint.
“Losing work is very personal,” points out Goldstein, who helped craft a survey with University of Wisconsin researchers to look at the economic attitudes and experiences of Rock County residents in 2013. “A question that really grabbed me emotionally was one that asked, ‘Do you feel ashamed or embarrassed that you lost a job?’ And just over half the people who answered this survey said they did.”
To capture that feeling in Janesville, Goldstein split the book up into 55 very short chapters that focused on a single scene in the lives of specific residents. One of these characters was Matt Wopat, who decided to start commuting to Indiana for work in order to keep his family in Janesville.
“He’s sitting in his truck in his garage, having just said goodbye to his family, knowing he’s got to back down his driveway and start driving to Indiana which he really does not want to do,” Goldstein says. “He told me about that the first time and I thought that was a very emotionally compelling moment in his life and I must’ve interviewed him 10 to 20 times like, ‘Tell me one more detail.’”
But in addition to capturing the powerful stories of personal sacrifice that accompanied the plant closing, Goldstein made sure to also focus on the resolve and resourcefulness of Janesville residents, as well as its institutions — in particular a technical college that focuses on vocational training.
“The level of ingenuity of this small city was pretty impressive,” Goldstein says. “The technical college was really going all out to figure out how to help these autoworkers who needed something new to do for a living. They actually persuaded a senator at the time, Sen. [Herb] Kohl, to get an earmark to bring $1 million for each of two years to the college just to train dislocated workers.”
After that, Goldstein wanted to look at the impact of these retraining efforts on Janesville residents.
“My inner nerd came out and I did, with a couple of labor economists, a statistical analysis of what happened to people in that part of Southern Wisconsin who did and did not go back to school, what happened to them afterwards in terms of wages and in terms of their odds of having a steady job in the first place,” she explains. “And the results were not very encouraging. It turned out that if you looked a few years after this job loss happened, people who retrained were less likely to have steady work and more likely to have bigger pay drops from before than people who hadn’t gone back to school. None of that is because the college wasn’t trying really hard.”
But she also found the relative definition of success in the face of the GM plant closing to be quite fascinating, and in the book writes about a couple who went through retraining and remained in Janesville.
“It was interesting to me what different people thought doing okay looked like. One of the families in the book, after a few years, were making much less money than they were in their manufacturing jobs, in their auto jobs,” Goldstein says. “Both the husband and wife had retrained, eventually got work in the fields that they were interested in— in the case of the wife it took her a few tries to figure out what path was a good path for her — and they felt that they were really lucky that they had redefined themselves and managed to find other work in town.”
Listen to the full episode for more with Goldstein about how the plant closure affected Janesville’s other businesses, how Janesville voted in the 2016 presidential election, and what working on the book taught Goldstein about journalism.
To hear more interviews with fascinating people from the world of arts and culture — from powerful showrunners to web series creators to documentary filmmakers — check out the I Think You’re Interesting archives.
The standard narrative about Gilmore Girls is that Lauren Graham was a brilliant lead actress, Kelly Bishop was a fantastic supporting actress, and Alexis Bledel was kind of just there, being pretty and unremarkable.
And until this summer, Bledel’s interviews tended to reflect that narrative: They were usually frothy and silly and focused on pictures of her being pretty. During the Gilmore Girls revival press tour last fall, her most high-profile interview was about how she holds things awkwardly in press photos.
At Gilmore Girls’ height, many people seemed to accept that Bledel was maybe just not a very good actress, but now her more recent work on Mad Men and The Handmaid’s Tale is slowly demonstrating that those people were wrong all along: Bledel is a good actress. It’s just that her wheelhouse is “giant-eyed woman who has been traumatized into silence”; in other words, the exact opposite of friendly, screwball Gilmore Girls. All Bledel needed to prove everyone wrong was a showcase episode in which she is masked and silent and still manages to be completely heartbreaking, and that’s what episode three of The Handmaid’s Tale gave her.
Related
Bledel just picked up an Emmy nod for her role as a recurring guest star on the series, and she’ll be promoted to series regular this fall. What that means is that for the first time in her 17-year career, she’s going on a press tour and being treated as a serious, talented actress and not a glorified model. She’s being interviewed about things like acting technique, and judging from her appearance Tuesday night on Late Night With Seth Meyers, she is utterly delighted by the change. She’s always been a shy, slightly awkward interview, but on Late Night, she couldn’t contain her giddy laughter.
“Did it take so much out of you?” Meyers asked her of shooting The Handmaid’s Tale’s traumatic subject matter.
“Oddly, no. It was a great working experience!” Bledel said, eyes lighting up. “Filming it was an incredible creative experience, just so satisfying and lovely.”
Meyers broke out a picture of a key scene where Bledel wears a mask and gag, “which I would imagine,” he said, “as an actor is a little bit limiting.”
“It was an incredible challenge, and I was so excited about it,” said Bledel, who kicked off her career by spending seven years on Gilmore Girls, a show devoted to speaking as much and as quickly as possible. “It was really freeing to just have movement and your eyes and looks to work with.”
“It looked like the top half of your face had been waiting your whole life for that,” Meyers agreed.
“I think it was the fear of being the weakest link on such an amazing show,” Bledel admitted.
If anyone knows how unpleasant it is to live out that narrative, it’s Alexis Bledel. She looks so happy to be out of it.
CBS has long been ground zero in the struggle to get networks to understand the diversity concerns of activists, journalists, and critics. The network — which actually had a record of being one of TV’s most diverse in the 1970s, when it supported much of the work of Norman Lear — has spent nearly two decades ruling the TV roost, mostly with crime shows starring white men in their lead roles.
And that strategy has proved lucrative. CBS has been the No. 1 or No. 2 network in total viewership in every year that starts with the digits 20. (I have to qualify only because it slipped behind Fox ever so slightly in some of the years of American Idol’s height.) This means that as every other major network on TV has hit rock bottom and reexamined its commitment to diverse casting alongside myriad other concerns, CBS has largely kept doing things the CBS way, and profiting.
But 2017 is different.
As the network’s new president of entertainment, Kelly Kahl, and senior executive vice president of programming, Thom Sherman, took the stage for their very first executive session at the Television Critics Association summer press tour, they were surrounded by a swirl of terrible news.
First was that they were there at all — former president Glenn Geller, who spent barely a year in the job, left it for a medical leave that eventually became a permanent step away from the job. Second was that CBS actually slipped to third for the first time in  years among the demographic advertisers care about, 18- to 49-year-old viewers. (It still placed first in total viewership, but advertisers care less about those over 49 than those under it, which means CBS can charge less of a premium on ads.) Third was that CBS’s fall slate is pretty terrible. (And, yes, this is all subjective, but the best I can say about a couple of its pilots is that I can see where they might — might — get better someday.)
But overhanging everything was CBS’s continued inability to put shows with diverse casts on the air. And even if Kahl and Sherman were talking about a fall slate they’d inherited from Geller, they were still talking about the second consecutive fall season where CBS had no new shows with women in lead roles, and a fall where only one of its new shows didn’t have a white guy lead (the new cop show S.W.A.T. features Criminal Minds star Shemar Moore in the main role).
And on top of that, the network had just refused to give Hawaii Five-0 stars Daniel Dae Kim and Grace Park — that show’s only two main actors of Asian descent — the pay raise they asked for in contract renegotiations. Kim and Park left the show. (Kahl would only say the network made “a very lucrative offer” to the actors, but they turned it down.)
In the past, CBS might have rebuffed these questions with, “We make shows people want to see. We’re going to keep trying to get more diverse, but our lineup only allows so much room for new programming.” To Sherman and Kahl’s credit, they didn’t take that tack (that much) — but their actual answers also revealed just why the entertainment industry struggles with diversity concerns in the first place.
The other big announcement Sherman and Kahl made, one that caused audible gasps in the room for how ghoulish it sounded, involves the recasting of the wife role on Kevin Can Wait, the network’s bland but solidly rated Kevin James comedy.
Initially, reports said that Leah Remini (James’s wife on his old sitcom The King of Queens) would be taking the place of Erinn Hayes (his TV wife in season one of Kevin Can Wait). But Sherman and Kahl revealed that the role wasn’t being recast, per se — it was being completely reconceived, and Hayes’s character would be killed off offscreen between seasons. After a time jump, James and Remini’s characters would be together.
Oof.
When asked by Variety’s Maureen Ryan if CBS’s entirely white casting department (on both coasts!) contributes to how few diverse actors the network casts, Kahl said he didn’t think that was part of the problem, while Sherman added, “They’ve been together for a long time. That’s just the way it’s been.” (He promised a few sentences later to expand the casting department to include a higher level of diversity — but it was clear neither expected this question to come up.)
Similarly, when pressed on the point of diversity again, Kahl said, “Every single drama on our air has at least one diverse character,” which feels like the answer of the West Wing producers scrambling to add Dulé Hill to their show’s cast after that series’ pilot all the way back in 1999.
Contrary to conventional wisdom, network TV isn’t as homogenous as it is simply because older, whiter TV executives aren’t aware of the problem. They’re at least aware enough of it to pay lip service to solving it. TV is homogenous because the systems put in place to produce, cast, and develop its shows are so heavily skewed toward white voices (and often white male voices) that ideas from other quarters can often be too easily brushed aside. (And that’s to say nothing of the agencies that bring talent to those networks, which have similar problems.)
Fixing that problem requires actively working to change not just surface-level appearances of diversity but also underlying systems — as FX has done with its initiatives to hire more diverse directors on its shows, which have radically changed its behind-the-scenes diversity. But fixing that is much, much harder, and if a network has had consistent success doing things the way they’ve always been done, creating incentives to fix broken systems becomes even more difficult.
Take, for instance, Kahl’s answer to a question that had nothing to do with diversity — does the network rely too heavily on cop shows? “Look at the top 10, top 20 list. There are tons of procedurals. These are among America’s favorite shows.” Or look at Sherman’s answer to a question about whether CBS would like to be more successful at the Emmys than it is: “We’d love to be nominated and have Emmys, but if push came to shove, we’d take ad revenue and ratings over Emmys any day.”
CBS has become one of TV’s most successful networks by doing things a certain way. It might know it needs to change, on some level, but until something truly cataclysmic happens, it’s not hard to assume business will continue as usual.
The irony here is that Sherman, especially, can’t really be blamed for the network’s current diversity woes, as he joined only recently from corporate sibling The CW (which has much, much more diverse casting on average) and had previously been at ABC during the casting of Lost and Grey’s Anatomy, both breakthroughs in terms of the idea that having a diverse cast could be a boon to a show’s ratings. He tried to lean on this track record a bit in suggesting he’s aware of CBS’s problems and will work to rectify them. But until those underlying systems are fixed, he might be tilting at windmills.
Amazon’s newly announced series Black America — an alternate history resulting from a different outcome of the American Civil War — is at once very similar to and wildly different from HBO’s embattled Confederate.
Hailing from Peabody winner Aaron McGruder (The Boondocks) and Will Packer (who’s produced everything from Straight Outta Compton to Girls Trip to the recent remake of Roots), Black America takes place in a world where the North won the Civil War, but the process of Reconstruction resulted in the states of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama being given to freed slaves, who formed their own nation, New Colonia. (According to Deadline, the series originated from an idea from Amazon head of content Roy Price.)
The series takes place in the present day, but in an alternate world where the gigantic United States and the smaller New Colonia continue to explore their sometimes-fractious relationship. In an interview with Deadline announcing the project, Packer discussed it in terms of an alt-universe black utopia.
Said Packer:
You would be hard pressed to find many black Americans who have not thought about the concept of reparation, what would happen if reparations were actually given. As a content creator, the fact that that is something that has been discussed thoroughly throughout various demographics of people in this country but yet never been explored to my knowledge in any real way in long-form content, I thought it was a tremendous opportunity to delve into the story, to do it right.
Confederate, on the other hand, was announced in July and immediately drew widespread controversy for its premise, which involves the South winning the Civil War and slavery existing into present-day America. With Game of Thrones showrunners David Benioff and D.B. Weiss attached as executive producers and showrunners, the series has drawn preemptive criticism for being yet another story of black suffering from white creators.
Related
Benioff and Weiss will be joined by fellow executive producers Malcolm Spellman and Nichelle Tramble Spellman, who are black, on Confederate. In an interview with NPR, the Spellmans indicated Confederate, too, is meant to examine the present through the eyes of an alternate world — in this case to explore how slavery’s legacy continues to weigh on the country. But HBO’s initial Confederate announcement placed its focus on Benioff and Weiss’s ownership of the project over the Spellmans’ involvement, in contrast to Amazon heralding Black America as McGruder and Packer’s project.
The presence of Amazon’s somewhat similar alternate history project may explain why HBO was so quick to announce Confederate when it won’t be on TV screens before 2019 at the earliest (and it’s far more likely to show up in 2020). Even setting aside Black America’s more utopian vision and completely black creative team, as opposed to Confederate’s more pessimistic vision and Game of Thrones ties, HBO almost certainly wanted to get out ahead of the similar project (which has been in development for over a year, as per Deadline and Packer) in order to avoid looking like it was copying Amazon’s move.
What gives Black America’s premise the edge here is that it’s not telling a story alt-history fans have heard millions of times before. “What if the South won the Civil War?” is one of the two most common scenarios in alternate-history stories, behind only “What if the Nazis won World War II?” (If you’re curious about that one, Amazon has a terrible show for you.) “What if the North won the Civil War but actually carried out appropriate reparations for freed slaves?” has far fewer stories and novels written about it — and that gives McGruder and Packer more room to explore.
Regardless, neither series will exist any time soon. Neither has written, cast, or shot a pilot (though Packer says in the Deadline interview that McGruder is “off and writing” on the project). But given the fact that its producers don’t have to put together the final season of a massive fantasy series as well, Black America would seem to have the edge when it comes to hitting screens first.
Time has always been a flexible commodity on Game of Thrones. From its very earliest days, the series compressed a timeframe of months into 10 episodes per season. The show would cut from one scene to another, and whole days might have passed. It was a marked difference from many TV shows, which typically take place over more compressed spaces of time — a few days to a week.
But the closer Game of Thrones gets to the end, the more liberties it takes with the idea of sequential storytelling. Yes, events follow from one another, but there will be sequences that leap forward by several weeks in scene transitions. Tyrion will say he’s going to send a raven to Jon Snow — something that would take some deal of time — and in the very next scene, Jon will be getting that raven.
Related
It’s had the curious effect of making the show seem increasingly unmoored from the passage of time. Episodes will crosscut between events that have to be taking place weeks or months apart, as when a relatively compressed story in Dorne back in season five was placed opposite far more sprawling narratives elsewhere. And it’s only getting more drastic in season seven: Conservatively, several months have passed across the first three episodes, but we’ve seen only a few snippets of moments across those several months.
The effect of this elision of time is that the characters seem to be in stasis between their scenes. We might send Jon off to Dragonstone via ship in one scene, then pick up with him arriving in the next episode, but there’s little sense of how the journey weighed on him or changed his relationships with his fellow travelers. At times, it seems like the characters have conversations, make decisions, then board Elon Musk’s proposed Hyperloop to travel between sections of Westeros over a matter of minutes.
This could be read as a complaint — and I do wish the show was slightly more transparent about how much time is passing — but at the same time, this is probably inevitable. It’s just how serialized stories work.
Think back to the first season of Game of Thrones (which you could still make an argument for as the show’s best). The bulk of the first half of that season is spent on many of the characters traveling from Winterfell in the North to King’s Landing several weeks’ journey south. Then the second half of the season covered the events of a few more weeks, as Ned Stark uncovered a deadly conspiracy and the characters struggled to stay alive in a treacherous political landscape.
It was by far the most compact the show had ever been. Yes, we kept cutting away to the adventures of Daenerys across the Narrow Sea, or Jon Snow at the Wall, but for the most part, the characters were in a handful of the same locations, which set up relationships the show has been playing off in every season since.
Then Game of Thrones scattered those characters across its map for the next several seasons, only beginning to collapse the story back in on itself in season six. Now, in season seven, the characters are once again largely spread across a handful of locations (primarily King’s Landing, Winterfell, the Citadel, and Dragonstone, with some stragglers heading toward one of those locations). But where season one was pretty leisurely and tied distinctly to the passage of time over the course of several weeks, season seven is flying all over the place.
Related
The reason for this is simple. In season one, we were still getting to know the characters. Digging into the relationship between Arya and Sansa, for instance, would establish character traits and moments of foreshadowing that the show is still paying off all these seasons later. Similarly, establishing Ned as an honorable man who would lose his head for the sin of assuming everyone else was honorable established one of the show’s most potent themes.
Thus, the early going of Game of Thrones was more welcoming to scenes that serve mostly to set up character or theme, and those scenes often occurred when characters were traveling from place to place. (Jon and Tyrion’s friendship, for instance, was born on the road to the Wall.) So long as the show kept us intrigued in some way, we were more willing to wait as it set up the basics. Subsequent seasons traced how those characters and themes shifted and changed as events in Westeros merited. And now, as the characters head back toward each other, we can see just how much they’ve changed from those early days.
But that’s just the thing: Now that we’re this deep into the series, we don’t really need to establish who these characters are. We know. We’ve been with them all along. Now, what matters is plot, and the plot’s needs require flitting from location to location, just to keep up. Time is still passing for the characters in the same way, but the amount of it we need to see to follow the story has greatly decreased. For instance, we don’t really need to see Euron’s fleet being built to understand that he has one. He’s already said he intended to, and seeing him pop up in the middle of the night to rain death down on Dany’s forces is a better storytelling twist.
Keep track of how many scenes in this season feature lots of dialogue that’s pretty much just exposition, the characters reminding each other of where they stand in relation to each other and what they’re going to do next. This has contributed to the season’s slightly talky feel — character is best revealed through action, but action is hard to come by this late in the story, when much of what’s happening is setting things up for the cataclysms to come.
This situation is by no means unique to Game of Thrones, either. In the early seasons of Lost, for instance, the mysterious Island was shrouded in strangeness and shadow, and characters would spend several episodes traveling from point A to point B. By the final season, it was as if they had all found motorcycles, for how quickly they raced across the Island. A similar effect took hold of 24, which was serialized within its seasons but not across them. In the early going, the show took care to try suggesting Jack Bauer really was living in real time; by later seasons, he could drive across major US metro areas at rush hour in about 10 minutes.
As serialized shows get older, they need to work harder to maintain our interest. That means stakes get higher, big moments get bigger, and the twists get twistier. But it also means that time starts to speed up, even on shows that are generally rigid about its passage. Game of Thrones might seem particularly egregious in this regard, since everybody’s using inherently slow medieval-era transportation, but it is by no means unique.
On the surface, August’s streaming slate looks a little ho-hum, with only a few high-profile original series (Marvel’s The Defenders, another Wet Hot American Summer entry) and some prestige-movie-season stragglers (Hell or High Water, Jackie) to catch a skimming eye. But look a little closer and there’s a bevy of slightly more offbeat choices, making this a great month for expanding your horizons from the comfort of your own couch.
Film-wise, there are a handful of all-time greats, both vintage (High Noon) and modern (Children of Men), some solid nostalgia/camp viewing (Honey I Shrunk the Kids, Mommie Dearest), and modern horror classics both established (The Babadook) and pending (the jury’s still out on Netflix’s upcoming Death Note adaptation).
And joining the more familiar-sounding original series offerings are a couple of idiosyncratic endeavors (Comrade Detective, The Tick) with the potential to be gloriously — or at least interestingly — weird. Throw in new standup specials from some quickly rising stars (Maz Jobrani and Tiffany Haddish) and some of last season’s best new TV (Better Things, The Good Place) and you have the makings of a well-balanced streaming diet.
So here are August’s best new-to-streaming options, broken down by premiere date and platform.
Though he’s very recently been transformed into a queer cultural icon, the titular monster of this acclaimed Australian horror film has lost none of his power to terrify. That’s largely thanks to the combined acting team of Essie Davis and Noah Wiseman as a single mother and her difficult son. As she struggles to provide for him while managing his behavioral disorders and her own mental health, the specter of her depression and their codependence gains a visceral shape in the form of a creepy children’s storybook figure. Her fight to protect her house and save her son from the Babadook is a challenging journey full of symbolism, strength, and lingering power. (It doesn’t hurt that the Babadook also has great monster style.) —Aja Romano
Vapid high schoolers — who are destined to save the world — first travel through time, then through the afterlife in these surprisingly durable comedies of idiocy. Come for the “can you believe how stupid these guys are?” jokes, but stay for the large fleet of references to history, religion, and classic films. Where else would you see Death challenged to a game of Twister? —Todd VanDerWerff
It’s kind of incredible to look back now and see how much of a phenomenon Billy Elliot, a heartfelt movie about a boy in a British mining town who discovers the joys of ballet dancing, has become since its release in 2000, even inspiring a Broadway adaptation (which, by the way, launched the career of Tom Holland, a.k.a. the latest Spider-Man). But the movie itself is quite simply one of most emotional, evocative dance movies ever made, anchored by fantastic performances from a young Jamie Bell and Julie Walters as his dance teacher. —Caroline Framke
If The Handmaid’s Tale has whetted your appetite for horrifying dystopias brought about by a fertility crisis, consider Children of Men, Alfonso Cuarón’s stunning 2006 film based on the novel by P.D. James, set in a world in which no babies have been born for the past 18 years. Its depiction of a Britain that has militantly closed itself off to outsiders might feel a little close for comfort in a post-Brexit world, but what makes Children of Men so beautiful is that it’s a dystopia that contains the possibility of redemption. —Constance Grady
This scintillating, slow-burning 1997 melodrama is a rare cinematic feat: a Southern gothic that’s about the crumbling legacy of a generational black family, for once. Our narrator, Eve (played by a young Jurnee Smollett), is the same age as Harper Lee’s Scout when she’s caught in a swirl of events she’s only just beginning to understand — but where To Kill a Mockingbird’s racism is indirectly felt, in Eve’s Bayou, the impact of racism foments among the characters as they form a web of sexual intrigue in the midst of the broader racial turbulence of the ’60s. Kasi Lemmons, in a superb directorial debut, skillfully weaves together themes of community discord, family secrets, and a touch of magical realism, centered on the coming of age of two young girls. —AR
In 1977, British talk show host David Frost interviewed Richard Nixon, marking the first time the disgraced ex-president had given an interview after his resignation. Nixon picked Frost — some speculated because he thought Frost would go easy on him — but a battle of wits ensued over the four installments, with Nixon famously saying about his deeds that “when the president does it, it isn’t illegal.” The interviews are fascinating, but this fictionalization directed by Ron Howard landed five Oscar nominations and critical acclaim, particularly for the performances by Frank Langella as Nixon and Michael Sheen as Frost. —Alissa Wilkinson
Fred Zinnemann’s classic Western is most famous for Gary Cooper’s memorable performance as Will Kane, a righteous lawman trying to prepare for a calamitous gunfight in his town, and Grace Kelly’s unorthodox turn as his new bride. But what’s most surprising about this film is how tense and well-paced it is despite being a story about a man who spends half a day waiting for something to happen. The film draws its suspense — and its dark cynicism — from Kane’s attempts to galvanize members of his community to take a stand against lawlessness and violence, as they shirk, flee from, or shrug off the crusade one by one. At the time of the film’s release, High Noon carried unmistakable political overtones due to its writer, Carl Foreman, being blacklisted during the McCarthy era. Today, those political overtones are sharper — and perhaps bleaker — than ever. —AR
“No, Dad, noooo! Don’t eat me! Ahhhhhhh!” —TV
Wait, Wait, Don’t Tell Me panelist and Superior Donuts star Maz Jobrani was a political science student before he launched his comedy career, so he’s uniquely suited to a moment in time when so many people want their comedy with a hefty side of political discussion. In his new special, Jobrani dives deep into Trump’s America — and into his life as an Iranian immigrant who came to the US as a young child. (Listen to our recent podcast discussion with Jobrani.) —TV
Rachel Getting Married isn’t what won Anne Hathaway her Oscar, but it’s the consensus pick for her best performance. Hathaway isn’t playing the titular Rachel, but rather Kym, Rachel’s recovering addict younger sister, home for the weekend of Rachel’s wedding. Kym is equal parts toxic and magnetic, and the movie carefully documents the way her presence disrupts the already fragile balance of this unruly mixing of two families. As Kym, Hathaway is brash, needy, and self-loathing, giving her natural theater-kid thirst for attention a decidedly dark spin. —CG
Amazon’s new series Comrade Detective is ostensibly a government-produced Romanian cop show from the Cold War era that’s been resurrected and remastered for modern American audiences — but really, it’s a parodic exercise that doubles as an opportunity for a bunch of famous and/or funny people to do comedic voice work, a.k.a. the sweetest acting gig there is.
With a bunch of unknown Romanian actors in front of the camera and voiceover from a slew of famous American names (including Channing Tatum and Joseph Gordon-Levitt as the titular detectives, as well as supporting turns from Nick Offerman, Jenny Slate, Chloë Sevigny, and more), Comrade Detective is a weird, somewhat dissociative viewing experience. But its stylish anti-capitalist crime-story elements are compelling, and a central murder mystery keeps this strange beast of a series chugging forward to the point where you may eventually be able to watch it without being distracted by Tatum and Gordon-Levitt’s voices coming out of unfamiliar faces. —Genevieve Koski
Christina Crawford’s bestselling tell-all memoir Mommie Dearest, published after the death of her mother Joan Crawford, solidified the Hollywood legend’s reputation as a famously difficult diva, even if the book’s account of her abusive behavior continues to be disputed. But in casting fellow famously difficult diva Faye Dunaway as Crawford, the film achieved a deep symbiosis between the two actresses. The result is a character who is jarringly sympathetic amid a story that paints her as an unabashed unidimensional stereotype. The melodrama of the script, the melodrama of Crawford herself, and the melodrama of the production around Dunaway-as-Crawford all combine to make Mommie Dearest one of the campiest films ever made. —AR
Season two of this ’80s animation reboot left viewers on a wild cliffhanger with a new villain on the horizon and a prominent member missing. This latest season picks up right where paladins Keith, Lance, Pidge, and Hunk left off, eager to locate the whereabouts of their Voltron leader Shiro and continue on their quest to protect the universe. Season three only delivers seven episodes, but it may be the series’ most emotional, exciting, and suspenseful yet, as the team members find a new addition in a current ally, make the heavy choice of selecting a new leader, and work out their differences to continue defending the universe as a newly reformed Voltron. —Abbey White
Wet Hot American Summer: Ten Years Later, Netflix
The ending of 2001’s comedy classic Wet Hot American Summer saw the counselors of Camp Firewood — played by Amy Poehler, Bradley Cooper, Elizabeth Banks, Michael Ian Black, and more — gathered together on the last day of the summer, trying to organize a reunion and imagining what their lives might be like 10 years later, in 1991. Now, after the cast reunited for Netflix’s cheeky prequel Wet Hot American Summer: First Day of Camp in 2015, they’re back to stage that very reunion. Ten Years Later checks in on the counselors now that they’re very busy and important 20-somethings stumbling around the early ’90s, in 10 new episodes of deranged fun. —CF
In his five-star review of Hell or High Water for Vox, Peter Suderman makes clear that the ensemble film’s real star is its setting. Director David Mackenzie’s heist film is a hybrid Western and Southern gothic tale of an economically destitute rural Texas, ravaged by corporate greed and dulled by the fading hopes of struggling communities across the heartland. That this barren dystopia is drawn from modern real life only sharpens the desperation fueling this tense story, as two brothers attempt to pull off a daring string of bank robberies in order to save the family farm. Whether they can save each other, however, is a deeper, broader question, with implications for all of us. —AR
Though less cohesive than the series’ standout second season, You’re the Worst’s third season was notable for its increased focus on the show’s supporting players, especially Desmin Borges’s poignant PTSD-suffering veteran Edgar. (Listen to our podcast interview with Borges here.) Also, leads Jimmy and Gretchen — the “you’re’s” of the title — inched closer and closer to a deeper commitment, much to their own dismay. —TV
If you like shows about people being gleefully awful to others, Hulu has you covered this month, with both You’re the Worst (above) and this. Julie Klausner and Billy Eichner’s rapid-fire jokes and carefree misanthropy aren’t the sort of thing everybody can stomach, but if you love this sort of thing, you’ll almost certainly love this unconditionally. —TV
Netflix’s latest original series centers on Sam (United States of Tara’s Keir Gilchrist), an 18-year-old high schooler on the very high-functioning end of the autism spectrum. Atypical chronicles both his and his family's experiences as he navigates the standard high school stories of dating and wanting to have sex for the first time while also being honest to a fault, taking things extremely literally, and indulging his fervent interest in penguins and Antarctica. The show rounds out its premise by also telling stories about Sam’s parents (Jennifer Jason Leigh and Michael Rapaport), sister (Brigette Lundy-Paine), and therapist (Amy Okuda), who all have their own arcs but whose lives are inherently affected by their proximity to Sam’s condition.
Be warned that the result is by no means perfect — Atypical relies way too heavily on way too many teen drama tropes, many of its characters are underwritten, and many of its performances are too broad. But there’s still a compelling kernel here, and if the show’s stories resonate with you, Atypical is an enjoyable summer watch. —Jen Trolio
Pamela Adlon’s story of a single mother trying to navigate raising her three daughters and trying to keep her acting career alive is very funny and deeply personal. The show was a bit overshadowed by its FX cousin Atlanta (which debuted to massive acclaim the same week), but it’s a terrific show in its own right, and Adlon’s performance is justly nominated for an Emmy. —TV
One of the most purely gorgeous animated films of recent years, the dialogue-free 2016 Belgian-French film The Red Turtle is a transfixing viewing experience. The fable-like story of a man who washes up on what seems to be a desert island — where he meets a giant red turtle that turns out to be more than it seems — is simple and universal, and communicated exclusively through music, the occasional wordless exclamation, and, primarily, lush storybook visuals. An all-ages delight, The Red Turtle is a quiet but affecting story told through simple but expressive characters and evocative use of color and light, a pure distillation of the unique power of animation as a medium. —GK
The Defenders season 1, Netflix
After spinning off four Marvel heroes — Luke Cage, Jessica Jones, Daredevil, and Iron Fist — into their own shows, Defenders has the quartet coming together to take on a new threat. (Think of it as Netflix’s TV version of The Avengers — or at least know that Netflix would love for us to think of it as such.) If you have superhero fatigue, this series definitely won’t cure you, but Defenders has at least one thing no other Marvel property has: an archvillain played by the one and only Sigourney Weaver. —CF
Tiffany Haddish: She Ready! From the Hood to Hollywood, Showtime
Tiffany Haddish has been working as a comedian for more than 15 years, but her starmaking turn in Girls Trip has led to her finally getting some real recognition for her sharp skills — and now a long-overdue comedy special. Haddish’s comedy is freewheeling, filthy, and fearless, and her Showtime special should be no different, which means it’s very likely to be a total treat. —CF
Is Nocturnal Animals a good movie? That’s a difficult question to answer. It’s all over the place and filled with wild tonal dissonance — often unintentionally. But it’s always a fascinating movie, and fascinating movies are almost always worth watching. Amy Adams plays a woman whose ex-husband sends her the manuscript of his first novel, one that has uncomfortable resonances with the end of their marriage. The cast is great, director Tom Ford finds some gorgeous images, and there’s always something to look at. More than you can say for most movies. —TV
Despite being one of the most popular manga/anime series of the mid-2000s, Death Note languished for years without a US adaptation. When director Adam Wingard first signed on to helm the dark morality tale of a teenage boy who gains the power to kill by writing the names of his victims in an otherworldly notebook, he was one of the horror world’s brightest rising stars. However, since then, he’s turned out the abysmal Blair Witch and drawn criticism for casting a white guy, Nat Wolff, to play Death Note’s main character, Light, instead of retaining Light’s original Japanese identity.
The main reason we still have hope for this adaptation rests with Wingard’s casting of Willem Dafoe as the voice of the death god Ryuk and Get Out’s Lakeith Stanfield as the enigmatic detective L, Light’s best friend and nemesis. The cat-and-mouse tension between Light and L is the driving force of Death Note’s cultural staying power, and we’ll be there to see it play out in all its bloody, doomed glory. —AR
The non-sequitur-spewing, gloriously ridiculous big blue superhero the Tick has bounced from comics to cartoons to live-action TV and back again so many times that it feels like he’s always been with us. But this new streaming version of his tales will already have three more episodes than the nine the previous live-action version (from 2001) managed. The hilarious Peter Serafinowicz stars as the titular hero, with Griffin Newman as his right-hand moth Arthur. Six episodes debut on this date, with the other six following in 2018. —TV
Jackie is no conventional Hollywood biopic. We don’t learn about Jackie Kennedy’s upbringing or family history; we don’t witness John and Jackie’s romance; there’s no triumphant story arc detailing rise, fall, and comeback. Instead it’s a revelation, a steady gaze into the early years in which the American presidency was a site for crafting an image not just for the history books, but for the cameras. Jackie proposes that the first lady’s carefully calculated public image was both truth and facade: not a false front, but rather a calculated one that becomes more interesting as you probe beneath its surface. —AW
The Good Place, created by Parks and Rec and Brooklyn Nine-Nine showrunner Michael Schur, has the kind of premise that it seems as if it simply should not work: A terrible person (played with amoral glee by Kristen Bell) dies, and finds that in the afterlife she has been accidentally assigned to “the good place.” To keep from being sent to “the bad place,” she decides to devote herself to learning ethics and becoming good.
Related
It’s so high-concept! So many moral issues to tackle! And in a half-hour network sitcom, no less! But the first season of The Good Place is a perfectly structured season of comedy that also manages to be philosophically complex, with an ambitious season finale that sticks its landing flawlessly. And it’s a fantastic showcase both for Bell — who’s had razor-sharp comedic delivery since back in her Veronica Mars days and is clearly having a ball showing it off here — and for Ted Danson, playing the celestial overseer of the neighborhood with a showstopping smile. —CG
The news that President Trump has fired White House communications director Anthony Scaramucci just 10 days after hiring him lit up Twitter on Monday afternoon. It’s exactly the kind of chaotic, melodramatic news fodder that makes for prime internet joke-slinging: Trump, acting under the influence of his newly hired chief of staff John Kelly, reportedly allowed Kelly to axe Scaramucci immediately after Kelly was sworn in. And that’s on top of the fact that Kelly has just replaced Trump’s former chief of staff, Reince Priebus, who was himself pushed out of the administration on Friday.
Related
The White House issuing two high-profile pink slips in such a short time span, combined with Scaramucci’s recent notoriety after his jaw-dropping, obscenity-laced phone call with New Yorker reporter Ryan Lizza, made the opportunity to comment simply too good for many people to ignore. As the news rapidly swept across the internet, the jokes came from virtually every corner.
That was fast. #Scaramucci (image source unknown) pic.twitter.com/g4V7WFZqpg
Even members of Congress and former White House communications staffers couldn’t resist joining in:
Thank you Anthony @Scaramucci for your service. I speak for a grateful nation when I say “has it really only been 11 days?!?” https://t.co/78ZEWLYrjC
Unfortunately for the Mooch, the minimum tenure to get invited to the annual WH Comms Directors Reunion is 3 weeks
It would be hard to encompass the full depth and breadth of Twitter Scaramucci jokes, so we’re not even going to try. Just know that there’s something for everyone, whether your thing is “Bohemian Rhapsody” quips ...
Easy come. Easy Go. https://t.co/BdyVKjpQb9
... TV references ...
Anthony "The Mooch" Scaramucci  will forever be remembered as the "Tori from Saved By The Bell" of the Trump administration.
"The Mooch Gets Fired" pic.twitter.com/xZfMJA6z1T
Don't cry for The Mooch. Cry for the SNL writers who just lost a golden opportunity. #Scaramucci
does Donald Trump genuinely think he is supposed to eliminate someone each week
... crude photo memes ...
pic.twitter.com/mkYsDs2orb
... schadenfreude ...
The Mooch is out! Let's go live to Reince Priebus and Sean Spicer for a reaction. pic.twitter.com/ILS8mCV0jd
Let he who hasn't started a new job, divorced, cussed out his coworkers on tv and gotten fired in 10 days throw the first stone. #Scaramucci
Between being canned this week & his wife filing for divorce last week, #Scaramucci is one dead dog away from becoming a country music song.
... poll predictions and pool jokes ...
Congratulations to the 51 people who correctly guessed ‘The Mooch’ in my poll! The rest of you—hey, it’s only Monday https://t.co/xyBMRgR2Mq
... earnest reactions from people whose initial surprise forestalled any attempts at humor ...
"The Mooch' out as Trump's Communications Director: The most chaotic start to any American Presidency in history has just gotten worse.
I know we joke abt how working for trump ruins ur life but the mooch has lost his wife, kid, and job and he only started a week ago pic.twitter.com/9uPJQKspJq
... or candid responses from people whose initial surprise itself became the joke:
I have never laughed out loud at the news before.
OVERHEARD: Collective gasps followed by a smattering of laughter in the Senate press gallery as the Mooch news broke.
In the middle of so much “excitement,” it’s easy to overlook a simple, straightforward truth: that the instantaneous nature of the internet allowed millions of social media users to experience and react to the news of Scaramucci’s firing more or less simultaneously. Much like Trump’s #covfefe kerfuffle from earlier this year, the outpouring of Mooch tweets, jokes, and reactions stood in for what was essentially our collective double-take.
And now the continued retweets, “Mooch” hashtags, and meme-ing will serve as a way to keep the shock, drama, and humor of the moment going. It’s possible that the internet’s Mooch joke cycle may last longer than Scaramucci’s actual White House tenure — unless, of course, Trump fires someone else.
Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA) wasn’t messing around during a House Financial Services Committee hearing Thursday when she confronted Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin with a procedural interruption that has now gone viral.
When Waters asked Mnuchin why his office had not responded to a letter from her office regarding President Trump’s financial ties to Russian banks, Mnuchin prefaced his direct response to the question with a series of formalities — mostly compliments to Waters. Waters, however, was clearly wary that Mnuchin might be stalling in order to avoid answering the question, and repeatedly attempted to redirect him by insisting that she was “reclaiming my time” — a phrase rooted in House floor procedure that has since swept the internet.
“We don’t want to take my time up with how great I am,” Waters said when Mnuchin tried to begin by complimenting her. When Mnuchin insisted he had been attempting to answer the question, Waters continued to press him to actually do so, repeating the “reclaiming my time” refrain.
Waters has been outspoken in her opposition to the Trump administration — indeed, she was calling for his impeachment as early as February. As a de facto leader of the anti-Trump resistance, Waters has become a bit of a rallying point for progressives in recent months, and her words to Mnuchin quickly became an internet meme among women, minorities, and anyone else who’s run out of time to waste and fucks to give.
"Reclaiming My Time," the story of a people. pic.twitter.com/ZRlHNbQamt
Reclaiming My Time: a Collection of Essays on Black Women Who are Sick of White Men's Mediocrity
“Reclaiming my time” quickly became a catchphrase for commentary on the Trump administration, racism, misogyny, and other progressive issues.
Push Alert: Trump just— Me: RECLAIMING. MY. TIME.
Q: Isn't #NoConfederate censorship?A: RECLAIMING MY TIME.
Reclaiming your time. https://t.co/lPAYhUey4O
Scaramucci: So fucking stoked about my new job at wh— Karma: RECLAIMING MY TIME.
But the meme can also be applied to just about everything — either as a general expression of empowerment or just as a general expression of hilarity.
A photo series of me reclaiming my time - thank you Auntie @MaxineWaters for the constant inspo & for taking no nonsense (see link in bio) pic.twitter.com/9Ex3gigvg2
Professor: And this is just a side note, it's not on the exam, but-Me: RECLAIMING MY TIME. RECLAIMING MY TIIIMEE.
Me: Where do you see this going?Him:  I'm just tryna chill-Me: pic.twitter.com/Mb9fzQxUZO
The meme has also already spawned two incredible musical outgrowths — this remix of Waters’s interaction with Mnuchin by Adam Joseph, and this viral video by Mykal Kilgore.
This gospel version of Reclaiming My Time by @mykalkilgore deserves a Grammy  pic.twitter.com/ABe7lt5vAL
For her part, Waters told MSNBC that she “could not believe” her phrase went viral. Her astonishment is likely due to the fact that her attempt to course-correct Mnuchin was, to her, a procedural part of the hearing.
She also stated that despite her efforts to keep the questioning on track, Mnuchin “absolutely stonewalled” her, pointing out that he didn’t fully answer all of her questions in the hearing about how he handles financial information regarding the Trump-Russia investigation.
However, those who’ve made the meme go viral seem less concerned about Waters’s unanswered questions; as far as they’re concerned, she made the most of her time.
The sanctity of Game of Thrones’ seven kingdoms is under attack by a new force that goes far beyond the White Walkers and Cersei Lannister. Entertainment Weekly reports that hackers claim to have acquired 1.5 terabytes of data from HBO in a recent cyberattack against the network, and have already released unaired episodes of Ballers and Room 104 online.
But the most devastating revelation centers on HBO’s marquee series. An alleged script for the upcoming fourth episode of Game of Thrones’ seventh season has allegedly leaked, via a cryptic and oddly worded email that the hackers anonymously sent to several different reporters.
Per EW, the email read:
Hi to all mankind. The greatest leak of cyber space era is happening. What’s its name? Oh I forget to tell. Its HBO and Game of Thrones……!!!!!! You are lucky to be the first pioneers to witness and download the leak. Enjoy it & spread the words. Whoever spreads well, we will have an interview with him. HBO is falling.
HBO has confirmed that a cyberattack took place, both to EW and in internal statements obtained by the news outlet. “The problem before us is unfortunately all too familiar in the world we now find ourselves a part of,” HBO Chair and CEO Richard Plepler wrote in an email to employees.
The network has not commented on what specific content the hackers may have acquired. But this incident fits a pattern that seems to be part of a growing trend in Hollywood.
Back in April, Netflix was hacked, and episodes of Orange Is the New Black season five were released online prior to its debut. A hacking group called the Dark Overlord claimed responsibility for that hack and said that they had also acquired not only more Netflix programming but also content from ABC and Fox. They subsequently leaked eight episodes of Steve Harvey’s Funderdome in June ahead of its premiere.
As the Verge has noted, Game of Thrones leaks are something that HBO has battled previously, though not necessarily because of hacking. In 2015, the first four episodes of season five were leaked online prior to the season premiere. In 2016, HBO Nordic accidentally released an episode of season six one day early.
There are four remaining episodes in Game of Thrones’ seventh season, which airs its finale on August 27. Whether the details of those episodes will stay under wraps until they air remains an open question.
While things looked grim for Daenerys and her camp following Euron’s successful attack on her armada of Greyjoy defects in “Stormborn,” Game of Thrones Twitter (and even some writers) found a bright spot within the (literally) dark ambush, taking a moment to celebrate the dispatch of two of the Sand Snakes, who are among the show’s most heavily criticized characters.
MVP of the week was definitely Euron for saving us from ever having to tolerate the Sand Snakes again. #TalkTheThrones @ringer
Euron is my hero for killing 66% of the fucking Sand Snakes. #GameOfThrones
I hate what the show has done with Ellaria and the Sand Snakes so much that I was slightly Team Euron this week. Slightly #GoTS7
As in the season six premiere, when Ellaria executed a coup against Oberyn Martell’s brother Doran and seized control of Dorne, we saw once again in “Stormborn” the show’s crop of Dornish characters cut down. Nymeria and Obara Sand were slain in Euron’s attack, and Ellaria and Tyene have now been presented to Cersei as the “gift” that Euron promised her in “The Queen’s Justice.”
Cersei has seemingly sealed Tyene’s fate with the same poison that Ellaria used to murder her daughter, Myrcella, and is keeping Ellaria alive to watch her daughter die in a particularly cruel and poetic flourish. While Ellaria could still conceivably be rescued, it certainly looks like the end of the line for Dorne as a major player in the Game of Thrones. So let’s look back on exactly why this promising plot line left so many viewers cold.
Note: For these purposes, we’re only going to look at the show’s treatment of Dorne, not how it compares to George R.R. Martin’s depiction of the kingdom and its characters in the books.
Those who’ve never read the books behind Thrones would be forgiven for having a mental image of Dorne that’s little more than the palace where the kingdom’s leaders reside. When Ellaria murdered Doran, she justified her betrayal by telling him that the people of Dorne despise him for his inaction after the deaths of Oberyn and Elia Martell at the hands of Gregor Clegane, but we’re never shown a single moment of Dornish resentment that validates the coup. Even just one shot of unrest beyond the palace gates would help viewers sympathize with Ellaria and cast Doran’s inaction in an entirely different light.
This moment is emblematic of the biggest issue with Game of Thrones’ handling of Dorne: It’s almost completely unexplored both geographically and culturally. Shot in Spain, Dorne had the potential to be the most exotic non-Essos location on the show: Business Insider even ran a story on the Dorne shooting locations in which the writer “realized it’s much more beautiful in real life than portrayed on the show.”
But much more damning than the lack of beautiful Dornish scenery is the lack of any sense of Dornish culture outside of how it’s experienced by the kingdom’s monarchs. Dorne is ostensibly more progressive and liberal than the rest of Westeros, but are its people really ready to be ruled by a bastard and her illegitimate daughters? What do they stand to lose or gain from the actions of its rulers? Do the Dornish people hate the Sand Snakes as much as the rest of us? These are all potentially fascinating questions that the show could have explored even slightly during season six. But it didn’t, so we don’t really know Dorne, and likely never will.
Game of Thrones spent considerable time and effort exploring the geography and the culture of cities that were essential to Daenerys’s storyline, like Meereen and Qarth. Yet the beauty of Dorne was for the most part discussed but never seen. For all the discussion of Dornish wine, the show could have at least shown us a vineyard.
Part of the ostensible appeal of Dorne was that it felt like an entirely different world while still being in Westeros. But the Dornish characters spent so much time dealing with self-contained matters that were of little consequence to the rest of the Thrones universe. Game of Thrones fans have no problem obsessing over small characters if they feel they can be important to the plot — just look at the fervor around the potential return of Gendry — but the show did a poor job of making Dorne feel like it could be more than a supplier of soldiers in the war for the Iron Throne.
For the majority of their existence on the show, the Dornish characters have been sequestered away from the show’s main action, making the Dorne scenes feel like they dragged even more because they seemed immaterial to the characters we’re most passionate about.
Say what you will about Oberyn Martell and the tremendous amount of time spent on his sexual preferences in season four, but he was at least given opportunities to engage with the show’s most crucial figures. The scene where he offers to be the champion for Tyrion’s trial is stirring, and added some emotional heft to his gruesome death (which is still burned in the minds of many fans). Similarly, Olenna Tyrell’s meeting with Ellaria, where the Queen of Thorns dressed down the Sand Snakes, was a welcome moment in which Game of Thrones’ sharpest wit had the show’s most irritating characters in her sights.
By merging the Dorne storyline with Daenerys’ conquest of Westeros in season seven, Thrones finally appeared to be making an attempt to bring Ellaria and the Sand Snakes into the fold. Seeing Ellaria in the Dragonstone map room this season, strategizing with Daenerys, Tyrion, Olenna, Varys, Grey Worm, and Missandei, has made her motivations finally feel more of a piece with Thrones’ main plot, and made the Dornish plot seem like less of a somewhat scenic sideshow.
Ellaria’s (and Olenna’s) motive of pure revenge created real, important conflict with the politically motivated moves of Varys and Tyrion, and add depth to Daenerys’ struggle over what kind of ruler she wants to be. Ellaria wasn’t given much opportunity to spar with Cersei in “The Queen’s Justice” since she was chained and gagged for most of the episode, and after watching Tyene die, she might now be too broken to engage in a verbal battle with the Lannister leader.
Ultimately, Ellaria and the Sand Snakes were only given a few brief season seven appearances to meaningfully contribute to this story before Euron’s attack. And since it seems highly unlikely that Ellaria will ever be reunited with the rest of the Daenerys faction, their ascension into Game of Thrones’ main storyline feels like a case of too little, too late.
Early criticisms of Game of Thrones focused on the show’s grisly violence and penchant for sexposition, and as the show has found its footing and developed a larger audience, it’s gotten somewhat better about showing the ramifications of bloodshed and cutting down on the gratuitous sex. But those criticisms still hold for some of the show’s elements, most notably the Dorne storyline.
The Dornish characters are meant to seem more alive and less calculating than the characters in King’s Landing, but often the reason for their passion is poorly articulated or omitted entirely. Their actions (including the cringeworthy “foreign invasion” scene in “Stormborn”) have always seemed conceived as a means to shoehorn the suggestion of more violence and sex into the show, in ways that have never quite felt essential to the bigger plot points.
As Vulture’s Nate Jones wrote in April 2016, “The whole [Dornish] plot line suffers from a lack of context: The only thing that matters is what’s happening onscreen at that exact moment.” Jones notes that Ellaria and the Sand Sakes’ desire for vengeance against Cersei despite her not having a direct role in the death of Elia and Oberyn is thin, as is their power play in season six. The lack of broader context for the Dornish characters’ actions makes them seem motivated less by recognizable human emotion and more by a desire to incite further violence, on the part of both the characters and the show.
Ellaria, at least, gets to expand on her personal motivation in “Stormborn” when she tells Tyrion she killed Myrcella because “[s]he was a Lannister. There are no innocent Lannisters,” which is still a bit thin but is at least an understandable logic for someone wracked by grief. But that isn’t true of the Sand Snakes, whose desire for vengeance feels like a perfunctory echo of Ellaria’s, and as such lacks teeth. In the Sand Snakes’ final scene before Euron boards Yara’s ship, they’re shown bickering about who will get to kill the Mountain and Cersei, but there’s no anger or passion in their argument, and their squabbling makes it seem like the characters aren’t half as fond of each other as they are of killing.
Tyene’s fate in “The Queen’s Justice” does at least seem to have resonated more than Euron’s quick dispatch of her sisters in “Stormborn.” Twitter reactions were more somber, with some even hoping that Bronn comes to her rescue the way she did for him in season five. That’s a step in the right direction, and there’s still slim hope for something compelling to happen with Ellaria, a more intriguing (albeit still relatively thinly drawn) character. But even with the events of “The Queen’s Justice,” odds are good that the end of the Dornish plot line is all but here, and that it’ll wind up being remembered as little more than a missed opportunity.
Sam Shepard, the Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright, actor, author, screenwriter, and director, passed away on July 30, Broadway World reports.
Shepard was one of those multi-hyphenates who, rather unfairly to the rest of us, turned out to be brilliant and highly renowned at just about everything he put his mind to. His first plays were produced when he was in his very early 20s. In 1979, when he was 36 years old, he won a Pulitzer for his play Buried Child, the second play in what would come to be known as his “Family Trilogy,” alongside Curse of the Starving Class and True West, the latter of which was also a Pulitzer finalist. Before he turned 40, New York magazine called him “the greatest American playwright of his generation”; he wrote more than 40 plays in his lifetime, as well as short stories, essays, and memoirs.
Around the same time that he picked up his Pulitzer, Shepard began acting on and off in movies — first in director Terrence Malick’s 1978 masterpiece Days of Heaven — and would eventually garner an Oscar nomination for his appearance in 1983’s The Right Stuff. He tended to turn down most of the movie offers he got, though, his agent informed New York magazine, because he preferred to live quietly in the country. Most recently, he had a recurring role as Robert Rayburn on Netflix’s Bloodline.
In between becoming one of the greatest playwrights of his generation and a highly sought-after actor in his downtime, Shepard found the time to direct some of his best-known plays, like 1983’s Fool for Love, which would go on to become a Robert Altman-directed film starring Shepard himself in the lead role. He also tried his hand at directing film versions of his own plays, notably the Jessica Lange-starring Far North in 1988 and 1993’s Silent Tongue.
But the heart of Shepard’s work was always the plays he wrote, which are bleak and abstract, to the point they could often seem at first glance to be incoherent. “Instead of the idea of a ‘whole character’ with logical motives behind his behavior which the actor submerges himself into,” he writes in a note to the actors in the introduction of Angel City, “he should consider instead a fractured whole with bits and pieces of character flying off the central theme. In other words, more in terms of … jazz improvisation.”
Shepard died on Sunday after a long battle with ALS. He was 73 years old.
For as long as the internet has proliferated viral chain letters, fearmongering urban legends, too-good-to-be-true morality tales, scams from Nigerian princes, and false conspiracy theories, one website has done more than almost any other to stem the tide of misinformation: Snopes.com.
Launched in 1994, Snopes is the internet’s most thorough and reliable site dedicated to debunking hoaxes, myths, and fake news. It’s so trustworthy that last year, when Facebook began enlisting fact-checking organizations to help it weed out fake news stories from its news feeds, Snopes was one of the five entities entrusted with the task, along with the Associated Press and other news outlets.
But now Snopes’s future is very much in doubt.
According to a short note posted to the Snopes website on July 24 (which links to a new website called Save Snopes), the site is in danger of shutting down completely, due to a complicated legal battle with “an outside vendor.” Snopes’s owners claim the vendor is “essentially hold[ing] the Snopes.com web site hostage” by refusing to relinquish control of the Snopes.com domain and denying them any access to advertising revenue.
“Although we maintain editorial control (for now) ... we cannot modify the site, develop it, or — most crucially — place advertising on it. The vendor continues to insert their own ads and has been withholding the advertising revenue from us,” the site’s owners wrote. “Our legal team is fighting hard for us, but, having been cut off from all revenue, we are facing the prospect of having no financial means to continue operating the site and paying our staff (not to mention covering our legal fees) in the meanwhile.”
The legal fees in question relate to three different lawsuits with several complicated, overlapping factors, as well as some very tricky distinctions between individuals and companies.
The first lawsuit has been brought against Snopes’s parent company, Bardav, by the “vendor” — a company called Proper Media, whose owners also have ownership stakes in Bardav. Proper Media is attempting to oust Snopes founder David Mikkelson from Bardav even though Mikkelson owns 50 percent of the company, due to what Proper Media alleges is grievous mismanagement.
The second lawsuit is a countersuit brought against Proper Media by Mikkelson (via Bardav) in an attempt to recoup advertising revenue from Snopes that Proper Media controls and that Bardav claims it is owed. More critically, the countersuit is an attempt to prevent Proper Media from continuing to exercise any further control over Snopes.com — control that Mikkelson claims is based on Proper Media’s attempt to combine its individual owners’ stakes in Bardav so that Proper Media can claim 50 percent ownership of the website.
In essence, both companies are trying to legally maneuver one another out of having any control over Snopes.
The third and final lawsuit concerns one of Proper Media’s own former co-owners, a man who has essentially shifted his allegiance and may now hold the key to deciding who — if anyone — legally controls Snopes.
With these ongoing disputes awaiting resolution — the competing motions will all be heard in court this Friday, August 4 — Mikkelson has set up a GoFundMe campaign with a goal of raising $500,000 in an effort to ensure Snopes’s survival. The campaign has already been tremendously successful, with more than 23,000 supporters donating more than $665,000. But even with this infusion of cash, the website’s future remains murky — so murky, in fact, that Snopes might be facing a shutdown after more than two decades online.
Here’s what we know about the conflict based on the claims made in each of the three public court filings:
Snopes was founded in 1994 by a husband-and-wife team, David and Barbara Mikkelson. The Mikkelsons eventually started a parent company for the site, which they named Bardav.
The Mikkelsons divorced in 2015, and David and Barbara each received 50 percent of the company. That same year, Bardav entered into a partnership with a tech startup called Proper Media. According to the Atlantic, the partnership agreement dictated that Proper Media — whose CEO is Chris Richmond, founder of the beloved wiki TV Tropes — would “provide content and website development services as well as advertising sales and trafficking” to Snopes.
The next year, in 2016, Barbara Mikkelson sold her half of Bardav to Proper Media, dividing it among Proper Media’s five individual shareholders. (As the Atlantic explains, because Bardav was an S corporation, its shareholders had to be people and could not be other companies.) This left Richmond and company president Drew Schoentrup each with 20 percent ownership of Bardav, and Proper Media’s three other shareholders evenly splitting the remaining 10 percent.
The result was that David Mikkelson suddenly shared ownership of Bardav with five other people, instead of just one. All five of those co-owners were also co-owners of Proper Media, and were, according to Proper Media’s lawsuit, obligated to uphold their “fiduciary duties” to Proper Media while dealing with Bardav. The suit states that “These fiduciary duties include duties of loyalty, care, and good faith, and any actions taken adversely to Proper Media are expressly prohibited.”
It’s not terribly clear whether the conflict between Proper Media and Bardav developed before or after Barbara Mikkelson’s sale of her half of Bardav. The Atlantic reports that in February of this year, when the San Diego Union-Tribune visited the Proper Media office to write a story about Snopes, tensions were high; the Proper Media staff apparently felt the 2015 development agreement between Bardav and Proper Media had saved Snopes from technical obscurity, while the Snopes staff felt “worried that the co-owners didn’t understand what Snopes was, and that they only wanted to juice its revenues, so they could sell it.”
Shortly after the Union-Tribune article was published, a falling-out occurred between one of the co-owners of both companies, Vincent Green, and his four fellow co-owners at Proper Media. Green had been working with Mikkelson on the Snopes website since Proper Media first became involved with Bardav in 2015. Proper Media’s lawsuit against Bardav, filed in May, alleges that in February 2017, “Mikkelson conspired with Green to block Proper Media’s access to the personnel, accounts, tools, and data necessary to manage Snopes.”
A few weeks later, in March, Mikkelson officially canceled Bardav’s 2015 contract with Proper Media. Or rather, he tried to — but Proper Media is disputing whether he had the right to do so (more on that below).
And in April, after allegedly spending the previous two months essentially working for Mikkelson instead of Proper Media, Green formally resigned from Proper Media and went to work formally for Bardav — a move that left his ownership stakes in both companies up in the air.
You may be wondering why Vincent Green’s seemingly tiny 3.33 percent share in Bardav matters, but in fact it matters a great deal.
This is because the Bardav and Proper Media are warring over whether, when the five Proper Media co-owners bought ownership in Bardav, they did so as individual shareholders or as representatives of Proper Media. If Green is an individual shareholder, he could take his meager slice of the Bardav pie and join it with Mikkelson’s 50 percent stake, effectively giving Mikkelson the controlling interest in the company.
But now that Green has left the company, if Proper Media’s co-owners are obligated to represent Proper Media in its dispute with Bardav because they acquired their Bardav shares while doing business as Proper Media, Proper Media may have the right to reclaim Green’s share, allowing the company to retain its collective 50 percent ownership of Bardav.
Essentially, Proper Media believes it owns a full 50 percent stake in Bardav (and thus a 50 percent stake in Snopes.com), despite Green’s departure. But Bardav believes that Mikkelson’s 50 percent stake, combined with Green’s 3.33 percent, gives Mikkelson the controlling interest in the company.
Which means the question of ownership is essentially a he-said, she-said issue that the courts must decide. As things currently stand, without a court ruling, Mikkelson/Bardav will have to keep paying Snopes’s staffing and operation costs while Proper Media controls the site’s ad revenue. (And some have speculated that Proper Media might ultimately try to sell its stake in Snopes for a profit, with little care for potential buyers’ intentions — thus further endangering Snopes’s mission and future.)
In order for Proper Media to win its lawsuit against Bardav, it must successfully argue that Vincent Green’s 3.33 percent share in Bardav is still part of the Proper Media collective now that Green has quit working for Proper.
Conversely, in order for Bardav to win its lawsuit against Proper Media, it must successfully argue that the shares Barbara Mikkelson sold to Proper Media were sold to its co-owners as individuals, according to the terms of the original sale contract.
Both lawsuits are asking for the court to clarify and confirm the details of the original transfer of Bardav shares to Proper Media via Proper Media’s five co-owners. (That contract, though available to the court, can’t be made public for reasons of confidentiality.)
As part of Bardav’s suit against Proper Media, David Mikkelson is claiming that Proper Media is “wrongfully withholding money owed” to Bardav, refusing to pay Bardav any advertising revenue or to let him have complete control of Snopes.com, even though he canceled Bardav’s contract with Proper Media. He’s currently seeking an injunction against Proper Media that would force the company to turn over to Bardav all advertising revenue accrued from Snopes since April, and relinquish its hold on the Snopes.com domain.
Proper Media, for its part, is disputing the validity of Bardav’s contract cancellation by claiming that its president, Schoentrup, is on Bardav’s board of directors, and thus should have been consulted before the contract was canceled. Proper Media is further seeking damages against Bardav for what it alleges is Mikkelson’s “gross financial, technical, and corporate mismanagement.”
In Bardav’s lawsuit, Mikkelson accuses Schoentrup of essentially pretending to be a director on a nonexistent board of directors. The implication is that Bardav’s “board” of two people evaporated when Barbara sold her half of the company.
But both companies appear to have had Mikkelson and Schoentrup sign, as “directors,” an amendment to Bardav’s nonexistent bylaws. In Proper Media’s lawsuit, Schoentrup argues that this document is proof that he’s on Bardav’s board, while Bardav argues that such an amendment, even if the company had bylaws to amend, would have been invalid anyway due to the language of the original sale contract between Barbara Mikkelson and Proper Media/its five co-owners.
Clearly, there’s quite a bit of messiness here (to say nothing of a snake eating its own tail). Stacey Lantagne, a law professor at the University of Mississippi who writes for the Contracts Prof law blog, told Vox that this type of situation usually arises from building a business without clear documentation in place. Lantagne pointed out that while normally the details of a company’s governance are outlined in its corporate bylaws, according to Proper Media’s suit, Bardav doesn’t appear to have ever had bylaws.
The conflict over the question of who is on Bardav’s board of directors is a perfect example of the type of confusion that can result.
“This seems like the type of complex mess that can often result when transactions involve close personal relationships, like significant others, and the chain of events is less than fully documented,” Lantagne said, pointing to Barbara and David Mikkelson’s apparent failure to establish bylaws when they first formed Bardav. “As these warring allegations prove, executing all the documents you can to memorialize your organizational structure can help eliminate ambiguity going forward.”
According to the San Diego Union-Tribune, Proper Media is arguing that “Mikkelson is unfit to serve as a director” of Bardav and wants to effectively oust him from his own company. But Lantagne told Vox that since Proper Media won’t be able to command more than a 50 percent share of Bardav, such an outcome doesn’t seem likely.
“It seems like Proper Media can't gain a controlling interest [in Bardav],” she told Vox. “At best, it can get to 50 percent and one board member, which could deadlock corporate decision-making.”
But no matter what the court decides, Snopes’s editors — in addition to Mikkelson, the site employs a staff of 15 people — are reportedly fearful of what Proper Media’s continued involvement in Snopes could mean for the website, and unconvinced that Proper Media fully understands Snopes’s unique and increasingly vital function on the internet.
When reached by email, a Snopes representative pointed to a press release issued July 25 by the law firm representing Baldav. "We've argued in court that the public will be harmed if Snopes.com is forced to shut down,” attorney Paul Tyrell said in the release. “The outpouring of support in response to the GoFundMe campaign makes it undeniable that the survival of Snopes.com is a matter of public interest." Representatives for Proper Media did not respond to a request for comment.
But the site’s operating costs are reportedly as high as $100,00 per month. Without advertising revenue to help pay staffers and conduct site maintenance, readers’ generosity can only go so far.
Proper Media and Bardav’s respective lawsuits will be heard in court on August 4. Until then, Snopes’s fate, like so many of the urban legends the website has set out to debunk over the years, remains in dispute.
Some of the most contentious drama that took place during Sunday’s episode of Game of Thrones didn’t happen on TV, but on Twitter.
As Jon Snow fumbled his way around Dragonstone, Twitter users took aim straight at HBO with a blunt hashtag: #NoConfederate.
For some people casually perusing their feed, the hashtag may have been confusing; on its surface, it doesn’t seem to have anything to do with Game of Thrones. But for others, it was simply the latest chapter in the controversy that’s been swirling for almost two weeks now around a new show HBO’s developing from Game of Thrones creators David Benioff and D.B. Weiss.
On July 19, HBO announced that once Game of Thrones is over, the pair would be producing Confederate, “an alternate timeline where the southern states have successfully seceded from the Union” — and where “slavery remains legal and has evolved into a modern institution.” The network was apparently confident that such a premise would be more exciting than controversial, distributing a press release about the project even though few details had been finalized.
Instead, the criticism was swift and fierce. Fearing what Benioff and Weiss would do with such sensitive, ever-timely material, many spoke out against the very idea of the show, insisting that threading the needle on such an incredibly tricky premise — not to mention one with huge potential for real-world repercussions — would be near impossible, and they should just stop while they’re (marginally) ahead.
Related
The protest grew loud enough for HBO to notice and scramble, sending Benioff, Weiss, and Confederate executive producers Malcolm and Nichelle Spellman to give a lengthy interview in which they promised Vulture they understood the gravity of the material they were taking on. Then, HBO’s programming chief Casey Bloys acknowledged to reporters at the Television Critics Association summer press tour that in hindsight, announcing the show via a brief press release was maybe not the smartest strategy.
But HBO’s damage control didn’t do much to convince those who’d already spoken out against the concept. In response, activist April Reign — who previously coined the Twitter hashtag #OscarsSoWhite to protest a lack of diversity at the Academy Awards — coordinated a new Twitter protest, encouraging people to tweet #NoConfederate during the next episode of Game of Thrones.
Whether you live tweet #GoT or not, please use #NoConfederate in ALL of your tweets from 9-10p ET this Sunday. Let's get it trending!
The hashtag trended nationwide throughout Sunday evening’s broadcast, and is continuing to grow even now. As Reign wrote on Twitter when announcing the protest, she believes “the time to speak up is now, before the show has been written or cast. Before HBO invests too much money into Confederate.”
Despite HBO’s insistence that it’s well aware that Confederate’s subject matter is extraordinarily complicated and sensitive, Reign has argued that bringing a so-called “alternate timeline” to the screen is too potentially harmful to be worth trying in the first place:
Because, for some, the Confederacy isn't alt-history. It's right now. #NoConfederate @hbo pic.twitter.com/NEm2vmghEJ
That point has come up again and again. For many of the people protesting, one of the most unacceptable aspects of the series is the idea that HBO and Confederate’s creative team might treat white supremacy as some “alternate history,” even though it is persistently, searingly present today.
#NoConfederate - because as a Southern, the last thing I need is for Whites to see their wet dreams about slavery played out on this show.
#NoConfederate is basically:White ppl: omg... what if... white supremacy....was still real????!?!?! could you imagine??!?!?!?Black ppl: pic.twitter.com/wT8cobNAd2
Even Bree Newsome — the activist who famously climbed a flagpole to take down South Carolina’s Confederate flag in 2015 — has joined in to voice her disappointment, writing a litany of tweets that sketched out the constant, ongoing disenfranchisement black Americans have faced before, during, and after the Civil War:
Now let's talk a bit why #NoConfederate is problematic in terms of imagining an alternate history: THE CONFEDERACY DIDN'T ACTUALLY LOSE.
The hashtag quickly caught the attention of HBO, which issued yet another statement about Confederate on Sunday evening:
We have great respect for the dialogue and concern being expressed around Confederate. We have faith that [producers] Nichelle, Dan, David and Malcolm will approach the subject with care and sensitivity. The project is currently in its infancy so we hope that people will reserve judgment until there is something to see.
This “wait and see” statement is unlikely to sway many of its detractors, who have no interest in either waiting to give Confederate’s premise a chance or seeing a sci-fi Confederacy in action. It’s unlikely that the network will outright cancel the project, especially now that it’s garnered enough publicity that a preemptive flop would be particularly embarrassing. But Confederate’s entire creative team sure has its work cut out for it as it moves forward and tries to create a show with the kind of nuance, sensitivity, and awareness that a parallel-universe Confederacy requires.
Sunny July made for excellent summer music releases — so many that we could barely keep up. From new pop star singles to reimagined tracks by indie artists, there’s a lot of worthwhile stuff to listen to. Here are seven of our favorites.

When Charli XCX set out to direct the video for her new single, “Boys,” she had one goal in mind: “I just want to flip the male gaze on its head and have you guys do the sexy stuff.” And the pink-tinted, star-studded result truly overdelivers.
“Boys” is a sugary-pop crush song, and the video teems with famous men winking into the camera as they slyly perform everyday tasks in a sexy way. There’s a boy for everyone in here, too, from Joe Jonas eating pancakes to Mac DeMarco licking a guitar to D.R.A.M. smashing televisions — BuzzFeed made a handy list of all the guys included. Add this to your summer party playlist ASAP.

Katie Crutchfield, the singer-songwriter behind Waxahatchee, is back with her fourth album, Out in the Storm, and the band’s sound is more polished and full than ever. After years of playing together, and the addition of her twin sister/fellow musician Allison on some tracks, the full band sounds tight and practiced but still full of crushing sound.
Crutchfield’s lyrics have always been her calling card — they’re intimate and vivid and great at detailing emotions. This album is no different: On “Silver,” she sings, “The kiss on my lips / Starts to feel unfamiliar / A part of me rots / My skin all turns silver,” while songs like “Never Been Wrong” detail heartbreak and loneliness. My current favorite track is “8 Ball” — a song about breaking free from a rut and feeling like yourself again.

Everything Now is Arcade Fire’s first new album in four years: a highly anticipated record from a band that’s earned a reputation for being malleable, eager to change up their sound with each project. Their new record makes this list for that reason — it’s worth checking out as an interesting new piece of work from a good band. But even though it has some bright spots, Everything Now doesn’t really meet expectations.
The album is a commentary on society’s self-obsession, displayed in both the band’s marketing campaign and their lyrics, like the back-to-back tracks “Infinite Content” and “Infinite_Content” (“Infinite content / Infinite content / We're infinitely content”). This heavy-handed approach doesn’t quite gel, and the songs themselves aren’t as well-crafted as previous efforts. Still, the title track, along with “Creature Comfort” and “Electric Blue,” are groovy, so the record isn’t a total bust. Listen for yourself!

Flower Boy is Tyler, the Creator’s tightest album to date. In turns introspective, meditative, and melodic, all while maintaining his standard rap chops, Tyler uses this record to edge away from some of his more shock-value lyrics of past efforts. As Vox’s Grant Rindner writes, it’s “compelling because it contextualizes his past behavior instead of simply trying to apologize for it.”
The album has also been spotlighted for lyrics that could potentially signal the rapper opening up about his sexuality. But “reveals” like “Next line, I'll have ’em like whoa / I've been kissing white boys since 2004” from “I Ain’t Got Time” are complicated by Tyler’s often homophobic past. So far, Tyler hasn’t made any statements about the interpretations.

Kristian Matsson, the Swedish folk singer who performs under the name Tallest Man on Earth, first collaborated in 2015 with the six-piece chamber music ensemble yMusic (known for collaborating with Bon Iver, Ben Folds, and other indie greats). But this July marked the first time that Matsson and yMusic released an album together, the five-track EP simply titled The Tallest Man on Earth With yMusic.
Four of the EP’s tracks are reworked Tallest Man on Earth songs; one is a cover — Joan Baez’s “East Virginia.” In particular, TMOE fans will appreciate the reimagined “Love Is All”; it’s one of Matsson’s most bittersweet songs from his 2010 record The Wild Hunt, and it’s even more beautiful here, with yMusic’s swelling strings behind it.
Bonus: The video embedded above, for TMOE and yMusic’s song “Rivers,” has been circulating on the internet for a few months — it’s a great live-recorded example of what the two unique musical talents can accomplish when they’re working together, even though this particular track didn’t make it onto the EP.

It’s been five years since Purity Ring, the Canadian electronic music duo, released their first album, Shrines. And to mark the anniversary, they released a new single: “Asido.” In typical Purity Ring style, the song is dripping with synth and, unsurprisingly, a hint of something dark. It’s reminiscent of Shrines’ standout track “Fineshrine”: Both songs are filled with a throbbing undercurrent and lyrics reaching for something more. In “Fineshrine,” the singer is asking for someone to cut her open and make her one with another; “Asido” implores the listener to “feel as lonely as I do.”

After their much-awaited new album What Now debuted in April, the duo of Amelia Meath and Nick Sanborn is back with a lush, full-band take on four of those new songs in their Echo Mountain Sessions EP. The singers are deeply connected throughout the world of indie and folk music: Sanborn comes from Megafaun, Meath comes from Mountain Man (an incredible a cappella women’s folk trio), and many of their friends are now in Hiss Golden Messenger, the Mountain Goats, and Wye Oak.
These reimagined songs, including the stellar single “Die Young,” feature horns, extra vocals, piano, and more — and there are videos to boot. Dare I say they’re even better than the original album?
We’ve compiled a Spotify playlist of all the songs above. Happy listening!
The episode description for “Part 12” is “Let’s rock,” and as Twin Peaks fans know, that’s a phrase that rings a lot of bells.
It’s what the Man From Another Place said to Agent Cooper in the Red Room, right before he informed Cooper that the gum he liked was going to come back in style.
It’s what Cooper found scrawled across the windshield of Chester Desmond’s car after he went missing way back in Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me.
And in “Part 12,” it’s how Diane decided to celebrate Gordon’s decision to deputize her to the Blue Rose, the secret FBI order dedicated to the supernatural — although Gordon’s decision seems to be at least a little bit of a ruse, as he and Albert are continuing to track Diane’s messages to figure out exactly what’s happening with her and Dark Cooper.
But would it be wrong to take it also as a celebration of the fact that Audrey Horne is back, and now we’re really rocking and rolling?
Audrey is one of the most iconic characters of the original series whose return had been promised — and yet she hasn’t made an appearance in the new season until now. She’s become one of the signifiers of Twin Peaks that pop culture uses as a shorthand for the show: There’s cherry pie, damn good coffee, people talking backwards in the Red Room, Laura Palmer wrapped in plastic, and then Audrey, standing in the middle of the diner in her schoolgirl sweater and red lipstick, dreamily swaying to jazz.
Twin Peaks is a lot more than just those signifiers, but Audrey is also a lot more than her signature soundtrack. In the series’ original run, she was one of Twin Peaks’ most effective symbols of purity: She was a teenager trying desperately to be bad, sneaking cigarettes into school and going undercover in a Canadian brothel, but she couldn’t hide her fundamental innocence. Her quasi-romance with Cooper was one of the show’s sweetest notes.
And Audrey has been notable for her absence over the past 11 episodes. A few episodes ago we learned that she was in a coma shortly after the end of the original series, and it’s seeming more and more likely that Dark Cooper assaulted her while she was in the hospital, and that Richard is the consequence of that encounter. (“Richard never had a father,” Ben Horne says mournfully this week.) But otherwise, she’s been invisible.
As we learn in “Part 12,” that may well be because she’s off living in her own TV show. She doesn’t seem to know or care about what Richard’s been up to in the TV show we’ve all been watching. All complaints about Richard go straight to his grandparents. Instead, Audrey’s concerned about her boyfriend Billy, who has never been seen onscreen but who may be the same Billy mentioned way back in “Part 7.” That episode ended with a guy bursting into the diner, demanding to know if anyone had seen a guy named Billy, and running out again.
Billy is apparently key to the shadow show running behind the Twin Peaks we get to see, the one where Audrey is trying to get a divorce from Charlie, the husband she despises, and is frantic over Billy’s disappearance. (Perhaps this is the show on which we find out about Angela and how she lost her mom and what a player Clark is, as discussed by two nameless girls over the Chromatics in the final scene of “Part 12.”) It’s a show of which we are only granted discrete, singular glimpses, but what we see only reinforces the dark, tragic trend of this new Twin Peaks: Something terrible has settled in the town that pop culture chose to remember as a sweetly charming swirl of kitsch.
“Something happened to me, and I don’t feel good!” says Sarah Palmer at the grocery store. But something happened to all of Twin Peaks. And Audrey has gone from the girl swaying in the middle of the diner to jazz only she can hear, to a middle-aged woman haranguing the husband she hates while her terrible son beats people to death.
Audrey’s return aside, Twin Peaks is continuing to crawl glacially toward any hope of conclusion. It’s almost gleeful about how slowly it moves. Watch the look of pure joy on Lynch-as-Gordon’s face as Gordon’s French date sloooooowly makes her exit: She puts on her shoes, shows off her legs, straightens her clothes, checks her makeup, reapplies her lipstick, takes another sip of wine, and kisses him goodbye, dragging everything out as long as humanly possible. And Gordon is just thrilled to pieces.
Albert, watching, is less pleased. He wants to sit down with Gordon and talk business. When Gordon suggests that he get back to his date and his glass of wine, Albert is stonefaced.
Gordon puts a comforting arm on his shoulder. “Albert,” he says, “sometimes I really worry about you.”
The idea of talking business on this show is worrying. It’s as if the show itself is asking why the audience is so invested in the idea of a resolution. Why devote so much emotional energy to trying to solve the mysteries when, after all, there is good wine to be drunk, and when there are beautiful women to chat up? Twin Peaks wants you to relax. Enjoy yourself.
On the other hand: There is Audrey’s tense, frustrated face as she listens to half of a phone call. The other half is clearly full of important information, but she can’t hear any of it — and Charlie clearly has no interest in passing any of it along to her.
“You’re not going to tell me what she said?” she says in disbelief as he hangs up the phone. Then, when it becomes clear he really isn’t going to tell her, in fury: “You’re not going to tell me what she said?!”
Audrey gets it.
“The Queen’s Justice,” the third episode of Game of Thrones’ seventh season, so thoroughly makes the argument that the final two combatants in the battle for the Iron Throne will be Cersei Lannister and the Night King that I might be a little disappointed when Daenerys inevitably rallies.
Related
Even Dany’s greatest triumph in this episode — she takes Casterly Rock! — is hollow, because she was basically set up to take it by the Lannisters, who left the Unsullied now occupying the fortress without provisions or much of anything at all. Meanwhile, Cersei wipes out the Tyrells and much of the rest of Dany’s fleet. The Queen of the Seven Kingdoms is making quick work of her opponents so far, and Dany had better start learning some lessons from all this losing quickly.
What’s odd about the episode is that it’s a bit of a throwback to the show’s first season, when major, major battles mostly happened offscreen, then were summarized by the characters afterward. (In the most famous example of this, Tyrion was about to head into battle himself before he was knocked out and missed everything.)
This happened back when the show was in budget conservation mode — not now that it has more money than anybody else. Granted, I probably didn’t need to see the invasions of either Casterly Rock or Highgarden in great detail, but the show’s approach (which is to have a few bloody images with somebody summarizing what’s happening in voiceover) occupies a weird middle ground that doesn’t really satisfy one way or the other.
That means this episode is about evenly split between winners and losers, too. Here are the seven winners and six losers who made “The Queen’s Justice” just a bit of a drag.
Did Olenna end this episode drinking a giant glass of poison? Yes. Is this the last we’ll see of her? Probably.
But oh boy was it fun watching her go out. A lengthy scene between Diana Rigg and Nikolaj Coster-Waldau offered both actors meaty material to rip into as Jaime offered Olenna what he obviously thought was a kind way to leave this world, then she sunk in her teeth after she’d imbibed the poison.
For a moment, I thought perhaps Jaime and Cersei had figured out Olenna was behind the assassination of Joffrey way back in season four — after all, they were having her drink poison out of a wine glass — but from the shock on his face once she admitted to the crime, the thought obviously hadn’t occurred to Jaime. In the meantime, Olenna got in some barbs against Joffrey and Cersei (she’s a “disease,” and Olenna is sorry for her role in spreading that plague) and mocked Jaime for just how in over his head he is in re: Cersei. Not every character who dies on this show should get a lengthy parting scene — but I’m so, so glad Olenna did.
Related
Olenna dies. The Unsullied take Casterly Rock but it’s the definition of winning a battle but losing the war. Tyrion’s smarts are seriously in question. Yara and Ellaria are held prisoner in King’s Landing, and the latter is forced to watch as Cersei doses her daughter, Tyene, with a deadly poison contained in a kiss. Meanwhile, Dany hangs out at Dragonstone and rants about how great she is.
I rather doubt that this series has been building to Daenerys arriving in Westeros and promptly revealing just how unimpressive she truly is, but “The Queen’s Justice” is the first episode that made me think this might end up being just a little amazing. While Dany’s been off freeing slaves and gathering her army, Cersei has been slowly steeping herself in her own bitter grievances, and she’s somehow become the greatest military strategist of all time.
Yeah, she has the help of Qyburn and Jaime and Euron. But “The Queen’s Justice” explicitly pits Cersei against Dany in both its script structure (which devotes barely any time to characters not in King’s Landing or Dragonstone) and in the way director Mark Mylod’s shots play the two off of each other. It’s almost like they’re dancing, and try though she might, Dany can’t take the lead. That’s going to prove deadly if she doesn’t figure out what she’s doing soon.
I was idly speculating with a friend the other day that one of Dany’s dragons just has to die at some point before the end — and then this episode spent so much time talking about how indestructible they are that I’m pretty sure it’s going to happen in the next episode. (Before, I was just betting on somewhere in the final season.) You don’t load up a story with that much foreshadowing without paying it off very, very quickly. Which dragon will die, though? Place your bets.
This one is pretty self-explanatory, and I’ve already delved into much of why she wins in this episode above, but allow me to advance a perhaps controversial theory: What if Cersei is the hero of this story?
One of the big things that Game of Thrones struggles with is that it constantly subverts expectations, while simultaneously seeming to play out a dual “chosen one who will save the kingdom” narrative involving Dany and Jon. The idea that the show would end with Dany and Jon facing off against Cersei, then turning their attention to an epic battle against the evil of the White Walkers, has always felt a little too easy to me.
But what if Cersei, who has learned and learned and learned from every single failure and dark moment and horrible action over the years, is the one we’re supposed to cheer on? Doesn’t that make a certain amount of sense?
If there’s one thing the characters in this show are supposed to have deeply ingrained in their psyches by this point, it’s the idea that you must do anything you can to secure power, even if it stretches the rules of propriety. That’s the only way you can ensure the safety of those around you. And, sure, that’s a pretty grim view of the world, but, hey, look at the world these characters occupy.
Everybody else on the show has some degree of hopefulness at this point, but Cersei knows that’s all foolishness. Jaime’s right — if Cersei wins this war, nobody will care what she did to build the world that follows. And Sansa was right back in the season premiere, too. There’s something worth admiring there, even if you’d rather not. Cersei will probably see her comeuppance eventually. That’s how stories usually work. But this episode came dangerously close to making me think she not only will win the war but should win the war.
Jon has become really, really bad at tailoring his message to his audience. He has a bad tendency to blunder into basically any situation and start ranting about the Army of the Dead.
I mean, yes, Jon, this is something you need to deal with, but don’t lose sight of the fact that you need Dany’s dragonglass by leading with your craziest fan theories. He’s rapidly turning into that guy you don’t want to sit next to at the dinner party, the one who keeps saying, “Yes, we’re having fun right now, but death is coming for us all.” Technically, probably, he’s a winner, since he gets the dragonglass without having to swear allegiance to Dany — but I make the rules here, and I’ve decided he’s got to lighten up.
And at any rate, the only reason he gets anything done in this episode is because Tyrion gets him to let go of the obsession for a couple of seconds. And even then, it’s “Army of the Dead this,” and “Army of the Dead that.” What a bummer! Just like...
Sansa: “It’s so good to see you, Bran. I’m glad you’re alive.”
Bran: “I am both alive and dead, for I can see both states. I can see all of time.”
Sansa: “Okay, well, time for you to become Lord of Winterfell!”
Bran: “Oh, I don’t think I’ll be doing that. I’m the Three-Eyed Raven.”
Sansa: “What’s that?”
Bran: “Ha ha ha! You are like a little baby! Basically, I can see all of everything, so I basically know everything you need to do to beat the White Walkers.”
Sansa: “Are you going to tell me?”
Bran: “No. I’m going to revisit your wedding day, a.k.a. the worst day of your entire life. And I’m gonna be a real creep about it.”
Sansa: “Asshole.”
I mean, who couldn’t love a face like that? I know he’s a horrible pirate, but he’s so happy about it. That’s what counts, right?
Related
Set aside the complete and utter implausibility of Tyrion only deciding to tell all his best pals about his secret plan to defeat Casterly Rock until weeks after the Unsullied set sail. Set aside, even, the way that he drones on about just how hard it will be to take the fortress before doing a hard pivot to, “JK. There’s a secret back door in.”
Tyrion’s still got a flair for telling a great story. He paces it properly, and puts the twist in just the right place, and he’s conscientious enough to be explaining what’s happening in such a way that we can follow the largely disjointed shots of the Unsullied taking Casterly Rock. If nothing else, he’ll be a cinch to win several sessions of whatever Westeros’s version of The Moth is.
Of course, Tyrion can’t really be a winner, because...
Good Lord, Tyrion. Remember when you defended King’s Landing against the invasion of Stannis at the Battle of the Blackwater? Remember how you came up with all of those great ideas about how to hold the city and the use of wildfire? What happened to that Tyrion?
The Tyrion of “The Queen’s Justice” is way too cocksure and unable to see the speeding train with his sister’s name on it headed right for him. I think it makes some sense that Tyrion would underestimate his sister, but I also feel like it’s a bit of a stretch that he wouldn’t have seen any of Cersei’s attacks coming. Wouldn’t he have surmised that Euron and company would be out there, at least?
What’s more, how did nobody on Team Dany realize that Highgarden was perhaps the most prized location for Cersei to grab? Warfare is often about trying to guess what your enemy is thinking, but Dany and Tyrion (especially) are far too enamored of what they’re thinking, which means they go down to ignominious defeat over and over again in this episode. Get it together, Tyrion! We were counting on you!
Whether it’s Ellaria and Tyene straining to reach each other from their separate bonds, or Jaime standing over the conquered Olenna but realizing how little he actually understands, or even just that first meeting between Dany and Jon, which keeps cutting to wide shots to emphasize how far apart the characters are physically (as well as alliance-wise), Mylod comes up with some smart ways to stage scenes that could have easily become long-winded and boring.
Blocking — the process of moving actors around within the frame — isn’t always this show’s strong suit, but I found the Jon and Dany scenes, especially, to be exceptions to this rule. Yes, the characters mostly remained frozen in space, but Mylod made every little inch that Jon got closer to Dany count, and when they were finally in the same place (when she came down to tell him he could mine dragonglass), that, too, had a significance to it.
“The Queen’s Justice” is an episode of talking and talking and talking, but Mylod turns out to be a great fit for all that chattering. This is an episode about characters, half a continent apart, circling each other, and Mylod captures that wariness beautifully.
I know the show is evidently trying to save money for something, but boy, the battles in this episode felt like they were thrown together over a couple of days with some spare props the show had just laying around. Maybe that’s what the series was going for. It was still a bit odd.
Technically, I suppose, I should argue that Sam is a winner for having cured Jorah’s greyscale, in a manner that impressed even the Arch Maester.
Jorah will be back with Dany just in time to explain to her exactly what she needs to do to win the war, and Sam gets to be proud of his ability to properly follow instructions, like a smitten boyfriend who wants his girlfriend to be really impressed he printed out the AllRecipes.com recipe for chicken parmesan and made it exactly so. Even better, Sam doesn’t have to do anything gross this week. Win-win, right?
Nah. Every time Sam does something good, he gets punished for it. Sure, he’s not kicked out of the Citadel, but he has to copy all those manuscripts. One presumes there will be something very important in those manuscripts — we’re getting so much Sam this season, so he’s obviously going to uncover something important — but for now, he’s still doing grunt work. See you later, Sam!
The first person to say, “Boy, I can’t wait for Daenerys and Jon to meet!” probably said that while wondering if Bill Clinton or Bob Dole would win the upcoming presidential election. Yes, A Game of Thrones, the first book in George R. R. Martin’s Song of Ice and Fire series came out 21 years ago in 1996, and the natural response to reading it was to wonder how on earth Martin was going to weave together his two most far-flung characters into the same narrative.
But it goes beyond even that. Sansa and Bran haven’t seen each other since early season one. Olenna’s admission of her guilt in Joffrey’s murder to Jaime hasn’t been quite as long in, coming but has still been one of those things fans are waiting for. And if you’re not a book reader, the show still gains power from just how long it’s managed to put a lot of this stuff off.
In some ways, Game of Thrones is an elaborate juggling act. It tossed a bunch of balls in the air back in season one, then waited to see how long they would hang up there. Along the way, it introduced some pointless busywork to keep us all occupied, but now, those balls are descending and crashing into each other, and it’s kind of marvelous. So we watch and wait to see if the show can possibly catch everything that’s up in the air. Probably not, but that’s part of the fun.
Other winners: Melisandre, for knowing how both her and Varys die, for some reason; Sansa, for understanding very basic things like “People need food to live” when everybody else in Winterfell forgot about them; the long night, for apparently returning in the near future; Jorah, for not dying of greyscale; Davos, for keeping everybody from fighting.
Other losers: House Tyrell, for being so bad at maximizing its strategic advantage throughout the entire series; poetic justice, for not realizing it was being meted out against Olenna; Theon, because I forgot he was in this episode entirely; Varys, for not being immortal.
Every Sunday, we pick a new episode of the week. It could be good. It could be bad. It will always be interesting. You can read the archives here. The episode of the week for July 23 through 29 is “The Blood Tax,” the second episode of the fourth and final season of FX’s The Strain.
What gives a dystopian scenario resonance? We’ve always loved fantasizing about the end of the world — especially in the past 70-plus years, as the invention of the atomic bomb actually gave us the means to bring that end about. But some apocalypses are more popular than others.
The Walking Dead, for instance. Why was that such a massive hit when so many other apocalyptic series over the last several years have fallen flat? Or think about The Handmaid’s Tale, which has hit a cultural nerve. Why that show? Why not another?
The flip side of this question works, too. Certainly FX’s vampire-infested The Strain has been successful on some level. It’s lasted four seasons, after all, and will get to come to its planned conclusion. Indeed, at its very beginning, its creators said they saw the series as running “three to five seasons,” and this is right in line with that.
But it’s hard to argue the series has made any larger cultural impact. I love its brazen stupidity and campy sense of self, but at Comic-Con, I sat in on a panel and when the series’ star Richard Sammel entered the room to implore everyone to watch The Strain, you could hear the wheels turning in the audience members’ heads. The Strain? they seemed to think. What’s that?
At one time, FX saw The Strain as its answer to The Walking Dead. Now, it’s ending in a fashion where its last season premiere was scheduled on the same night as the seventh season premiere of Game of Thrones, underlining how little attention it’s expected to draw from the general viewing public. What happened here?
Let me hasten to remind you that I do, on some level, enjoy The Strain. It’s trashy TV, but it’s fun. It generally knows how stupid it is, and it can build dramatic stakes when it really wants to. The height of this approach came at the end of season three, when the show’s worst character (whiny child Zack) blew up the Statue of Liberty with an atomic bomb — something that apparently triggered a global nuclear war somehow. (Don’t think about it too much, is my advice.)
Related
But there’s always been something a little weightless about The Strain, no matter how hard it tried to make itself matter. It would do storylines set in World War II concentration camps, or try to compare and contrast its vampire threat with the Nazis, and it all felt too pulpy to really hit home. Why did the show struggle so much to land with audiences?
The more I think about this, the more I think that The Strain suffers from being insufficiently connected to real world events. It’s trying here in season four, God bless it, but it’s too little too late.
Most of the truly lasting dystopian stories function, on some level, as warnings, often of a political stripe. The Handmaid’s Tale is an obvious example. Nobody genuinely thinks Donald Trump is going to create a throwback theocracy, but the fear that he doesn’t respect women one iota (outside of maybe his daughter) is omnipresent. Similarly, as I’ve written about here, The Walking Dead is, on some level, a story about the assault on small-town values by an endless horde of outside influences. I don’t think this means it’s an anti-Obama tale — but I also don’t think it’s a coincidence that the Trump campaign targeted Walking Dead viewers in particular back in 2016.
This means that the dystopias we typically care about are ones that let us be a little smug about the correctness of our way of life. That can’t be all they offer — good storytelling and compelling characters and interesting filmmaking will always win the day — but The Walking Dead worked because it was (perhaps accidentally) about something people were actually worried about, right now in the 2010s, while The Strain is stuck trying to turn its vampiric world into a metaphor for past atrocities.
The irony in this, of course, is that Nazis might have seemed like cornball villains when the show launched in 2014, but they feel very present in 2017 — yet the show has mostly moved past them. The weird thing about the show is that its metaphorical collapse of society is all about affluent urban areas suddenly finding themselves under assault from unlikely foes, then cracking under the pressure. That, at least theoretically, could play to more people in our post-Trump world.
But just as the world has seemingly caught up to make The Strain accidentally relevant, it’s pivoted to become about something else entirely.
The Strain has never, ever known what to do with the women in its cast, having killed off one after the other in a variety of ways meant to motivate its various men. The sole exception has been Dutch (Ruta Gedmintas), who was introduced in a throwaway part as a computer hacker, then gradually came to be one of the show’s few important women, simply by virtue of compelling screen presence. She’s been everything from a vampire hunter to one point in a needlessly bland love triangle, and at every turn, the show has utilized the character poorly, but Gedmintas keeps giving it her all.
After leaving Dutch out of the fourth season premiere, “The Blood Tax” catches up with her. She’s being held in a forced breeding camp, which is at once worth an eye roll (the show sent its one woman off to a bland Handmaid’s Tale riff?) and worth some interest, because Gedmintas gets a lot to do and handles all of it with aplomb. You can see where she might be a genuine TV star once she’s off this show and allowed to let in a little more light.
I don’t precisely know when The Strain shot this season — probably in early 2017 — but it’s been deeply apparent that the show is hoping to capitalize on some sort of tie to the hashtag-Resistance. (At one point in “The Blood Tax,” elderly vampire hunter Setrakian says, “We want to believe that progress is lasting, universal. We want to believe this so badly that we let down our guard, and our own evil crept back into us.”) And because it’s pretty clearly set up its vampires in the past as a metaphor for fascism, there’s room to maneuver within this basic setup.
But for the most part, The Strain’s vampire-ruled world seems like a riff on what might happen if the worst possible elements of socially liberal vulture capitalism took over the world (even more than they already have). The season even opens with an ominous fake ad for “The Partnership” — between the ruling vampires and collaborationist humans — that emphasizes the harmony and diversity of accepting all walks of life, as it tries to gloss over the fact that the vampires are attempting to bump humanity one step down the food chain.
There’s something potent in the idea of corporate doublespeak infecting this universe, of companies saying the right things in order to cover up their own horrible actions. And it’s not as if our world doesn’t have a fair amount of that as well. But it’s constantly at odds with the show’s desire to simultaneously play itself up as part of the Resistance against Trump, without really being sure what it’s trying to #Resist within the universe of The Strain (beyond the idea that vampires are probably bad news). It’s a whole bunch of metaphors, at odds with each other, unable to coalesce around a single, central point.
That doesn’t have to be a bad thing. The show is more tightly plotted — in its own agreeably idiotic way — than ever before, and when, say, Dutch nearly breaks free of the breeding center, only to go back on that possibility to save a newfound friend, there’s some legitimate tension.
But if I’m asking why The Strain didn’t break through in the way FX clearly hoped it would, that metaphorical confusion has to come front and center. The Strain so desperately wanted to be about something from the very first that it tried to be about everything. Better to blunder into relevance as The Walking Dead did than throw yourself heedlessly after every new political resonance that comes along.
The Strain airs Sundays on FX at 10 pm Eastern. Previous seasons are available on Hulu.
For some viewers, HBO’s Room 104 — a new half-hour anthology drama from the Duplass brothers, the folks behind HBO’s Togetherness and many, many indie films — will be like nails on a chalkboard. The stories will feel too small and intimate, or too weird, since the show veers wildly from interpersonal drama to genre fun. The show’s single setting — a hotel room in an unnamed hotel in an unnamed city — will feel too claustrophobic. They’ll wonder why the only thing that connects one episode to the next is that one hotel room.
Rating
But for some viewers, myself included, Room 104 will be an often thrilling look at what TV can be when it looks to its past and finds ways to update old formats for the future.
It’s not the best new show of the year or anything — anthology dramas are, by their very nature, too hit and miss to win any sort of consistency game. But the hits rise to sublime heights, and even the misses are intriguing on the level of, “I can see what they were going for here.”
Most importantly, Room 104 feels like a prediction of where TV might be headed in the next several years. As serialization takes over and becomes the bland, boring default, a hard snap back to standalone episodic content is on the way.
First, though, let me tell you what this thing actually is.
In our modern age, “anthology drama” often means “anthological miniseries” — a show like American Horror Story or True Detective that tries to capture a consistent vibe or tone or genre, even as each season features a new story and characters. (The first season of FX’s American Crime Story focused on the O.J. Simpson murder trial, for instance, while the next installment will concern the 1997 murder of Gianni Versace.)
But classic anthology dramas — think shows like The Twilight Zone — changed up their subject matter, characters, and even genres from episode to episode. The only connective tissue was the idea that you were, say, entering the Twilight Zone, where weird things could happen. Beyond that, the sky was the limit.
There was a pretty big problem with this format, however, one that made it more and more expensive to produce: Each and every episode required new actors and new sets and new costumes and on and on. In the early days of television, that was fairly easy to manage, because studio backlots had a lot more standing sets. If The Twilight Zone wanted to do a Western episode, well, there were plenty of “Western town” sets around Los Angeles. Now, that’s less and less true.
I have no idea if Mark and Jay Duplass (the creators of Room 104) knew they were solving this problem when they created Room 104, or if they just solved it by accident, but by setting all of the show’s stories in the same hotel room, they remove any need for wild setting shifts. They have one set, which can be dressed to reflect a variety of different time periods, and all they have to do is bring their actors into that space and turn them loose.
Even better, they’re using that basic framework to support up-and-coming directors and performers, rather than just hiring a bunch of their famous Hollywood pals. The brothers have long been supportive of emerging Hollywood talent, and that penchant is fully on display in Room 104. Mark Duplass wrote several episodes, and Jay Duplass stars in one. But the brothers didn’t direct any episodes, instead choosing to turn them over to a variety of promising newcomers, who put their own spins on each story.
Similarly, while you’ll recognize handful of the series’ actors (mostly of the “character actor” variety, like Orlando Jones and consummate “hey, it’s that guy!” Philip Baker Hall), Room 104’s players tend to be great actors you likely haven’t seen in other projects.
It’s easy to imagine how this experiment might have failed. After all, confining every episode to the exact same space — we never even see what’s just outside the room’s door — could have resulted in a slow, stultifying series that feels trapped by its own self-imposed constrictions. And there are certainly episodes that strain against these bonds, just a bit. But for the most part, the restrictions prove remarkably freeing.
I’ve described lots and lots of TV shows like “no other show on TV.” But the more times I’ve said it — and meant it — the more I’ve realized that it’s not really all that hard to break new ground in a TV universe where appealing to an ultra-specific niche of TV critics and the readers who follow them faithfully can get you a four- or five-season run. What I’m drawn to, more and more, are programs that don’t run away from what TV does well, or what it’s always been, but run toward it, then figure out ways to innovate within those restrictions.
So I won’t say that Room 104 looks like no other show on TV, because, well, Black Mirror (similarly varied in its approach) is right there on Netflix, and in the early ‘90s, HBO broadcast a very similar miniseries named Hotel Room from David Lynch. (There, the employees of the hotel remained the same across several decades of time, but the room’s occupants changed. Here, we barely see the hotel’s staff.) But the things Room 104 finds to do that are innovative feel all the more thrilling for how strange it seems that they’re happening in a standard hotel room.
By this I mean that the Duplasses rightly note that the confines of just such a room are one of those public spaces that collapse the usual boundaries we use to sort people. Gender, race, sexuality, class, age, religion, and other signifiers fall by the wayside if you’re able to rent a nice-but-not-that-nice hotel room, and that allows Room 104 to play host to everyone from beleaguered babysitters to MMA fighters just scraping by and hoping to get a big payout to an elderly couple celebrating over 50 years of marriage.
Not every story has to be for everyone, and not every story even has to work, because the very next week will bring something entirely new. And in the democratizing space of the hotel room, everything collapses in on itself. All of these characters, no matter how different, sleep in the same bed at the end of the night.
Intriguingly, the show’s creative personnel also use this idea to play with genre. The Duplasses are known for their love of tiny, intimate stories about emotional turmoil, often among couples. But they’ve got a weirder, wilder streak as well, as evidenced in some of their features (including the pseudo-slasher movie Baghead and the sci-fi drama The One I Love, which they produced). Thus, Room 104 dips into outright horror a couple of times, as well as dark comedy and even an honest-to-God sports movie (yes, confined to a single hotel room).
And in the series’ most unexpected installment — “Voyeurs,” airing September 1 and written and directed by Dayna Hanson — the show becomes, for 25 minutes, a ballet, about a housekeeper cleaning the room while imagining the life of its current guest, before things take a turn and the audience slowly realizes just where her flights of fancy are turning. There is one line of dialogue — “Housekeeping!” — and then an entire episode told via dance. Where else are you going to see that?
We’ve lived through a Golden Age of Television and then a Platinum Age of Television and then an era of Peak TV, largely defined by the idea that “serialization” equals “complexity.” But that’s a completely arbitrary distinction, and you can point to any number of stupid, heavily serialized shows that challenge it.
I would hesitate to say Room 104 completely shatters that idea — at least one of the episodes is so messy I can’t quite make sense of it — but it’s a breath of fresh air nonetheless. Imagine stumbling upon two women dancing an elaborate tale of sorrow and loss, no dialogue, just music and movement, late on a Friday night, and being captivated by it. Room 104 captures that feeling only sporadically, but that it does at all makes me hopeful, both for it and for television’s future.
Room 104 airs Fridays on HBO at 11:30 pm Eastern.
If you were part of the teeming masses that recently descended upon San Diego for Comic-Con, there’s a chance you might have rubbed elbows with none other than Lupita Nyong’o — and an even better chance that you if you did, you didn’t know it.
Academy Award winner Nyong’o has quickly become bonafide nerd royalty thanks to her starring roles in both Black Panther and Star Wars, but she took her dedication to a whole new level at Comic-Con with some low-key but incredibly enthusiastic cosplay. The actor has revealed, via two exuberant videos, that she donned a different disguise each day she was there in order to fully enjoy herself anonymously.
Each video shows Nyong’o taking in the sights as she makes her way around the event, busting out quite a few dance moves, and taking pictures with artists and fellow cosplayers who presumably were none the wiser to who they were actually posing with. “Thank you, [Comic Con],” Nyong’o wrote on Twitter, “for allowing me to let the little one inside me drive again!”
On her first day out, she cosplayed as the Power Rangers’ Pink Ranger and danced her way around the convention floor:
Did you see me at Comic Con?! #SDCC2017 pic.twitter.com/9Vnx4ss96d
On her second day, she dipped back into the Star Wars universe by donning Kylo Ren’s mask:
Undercover #Day2. Thank you, #SDCC2017, for allowing me to let the little one inside me drive again! #FBF #BlackPanther #StarWars pic.twitter.com/6NcBUGb6Nw
And on both days, she was an absolute delight.
The ever-growing glut of great TV, movies, books, music, comics, and podcasts can be a lot to keep up with. So we here at Vox Culture — where our current obsessions include a charming new movie starring Saturday Night Live’s Kyle Mooney, a comic about an intergalactic reality cooking show, and Tyler, the Creator’s new album — have a few suggestions for how to make the best use of your pop culture–consuming time.
Here are eight items to consider for your pop culture queue.
Animator Simon Chong had been working on his own Archer meets Bob’s Burgers crossover for seven months before he tweeted it on July 20, but it didn’t take long for the people who make those shows to notice. Fan videos can be hit or miss, but Chong’s four-minute clip (embedded above) is unusually slick; not only did he combine dialogue from both shows so that it flows in a believable way, but his original Bob’s Burgers-style animations of Archer’s acerbic characters look right at home in Bob’s restaurant. By the afternoon of July 21, Bob’s Burgers creator Loren Bouchard had straight up offered Chong a job, making for one of the better happily-ever-afters I’ve seen on the internet in a long while. —Caroline Framke
Have you ever been so obsessed with some TV show or band that your friends and family started to worry about you? Then Brigsby Bear is the movie for you. The less I tell you about the film, the better; all you really need to know is that Saturday Night Live’s Kyle Mooney co-wrote it and stars as a young man obsessed with a very, very niche TV show called Brigsby Bear. Mark Hamill, Greg Kinnear, Michaela Watkins, and Matt Walsh are also part of the cast, and the film is gentle, funny, and always surprising — a great weekend watch with a good heart at its core. —Alissa Wilkinson
Related
In David Burr Gerrard’s new novel The Epiphany Machine, the device in the title tells people exactly what they need to hear but don’t want to listen to. It tattoos a phrase on each user’s wrist, something like “DEPENDENT ON THE OPINION OF OTHERS” or “PLAYS MARTYR TO EVADE RESPONSIBILITY,” and that phrase reveals what the person knew to be true about themselves but tried to avoid confronting.
For skeptics of the epiphany machine, it’s a cheap confidence trick that an unscrupulous fake guru is using to start a cult. For believers, it offers a way of confronting buried truths and becoming a better person. For Venter, the epiphany machine is just the thing that stole his mother (“ABANDONS WHAT MATTERS MOST”) and poisoned his relationship with his father (“SHOULD NEVER BECOME A FATHER”).
The Epiphany Machine is a thoughtful, philosophical novel about self-knowledge and friendship and the way the internet interacts with art. Its devotion to self-examination is occasionally clunky — it’s one of those books where the characters ceaselessly call themselves out on their own self-delusions, and that gets exhausting — but it’s also endearingly earnest, and as the book goes on, it leads to some dark and fascinating places. —Constance Grady
Tyler, the Creator’s 2015 album Cherry Bomb began to show that the rapper was moving beyond the shock value tactics of his teenage years, but his latest, Flower Boy, cements his status as a tremendously gifted producer and lyricist capable of helming a musically rich and thematically resonant record. Leaner and prettier than his previous projects (and with strong guest turns from the likes of Frank Ocean, Lil Wayne, and Rex Orange County), it’s so compelling because it contextualizes his past behavior instead of simply trying to apologize for it.
Much has been made of tracks like “Garden Shed” and “I Ain’t Got Time!” alluding to rumors about his sexuality, and while Flower Boy may not change Tyler’s perception in the eyes of people he’s targeted previously, it’s a fascinating example of personal and musical growth that we don’t see too often in rap music. —Grant Rindner
Visiting my friends at DDT . - #ddt #makeup #monster @daviddtsfx @montseddt @damalto #ddtfx @realgdt @filmbayona @andy_muschietti #crimsonpeak #amonstercalls #mama #museum #movie #pickoftheday #happy #barcelona
A post shared by Javier Botet (@jbotet) on May 8, 2017 at 3:28am PDT
You may not recognize Javier Botet when he’s out of makeup — but he might scare the hell out of you when he’s in it. As part of its Comic-Con coverage, the Hollywood Reporter published a fantastic little feature on Botet, who was diagnosed with Marfan syndrome as a child and now leverages his unusual build (he’s 6-foot-6 and weighs 120 pounds) to create some of Hollywood’s most memorable creatures. The Spanish actor has played ghouls and monsters in movies like Crimson Peak, The Conjuring 2, and The Mummy and is currently filming a role as The Slender Man’s titular creep.
"When I've been through a few days with hard makeup, sometimes I'm tired and I think, ‘I've got to stop,’” Botet told THR. "But then I see in the monitor this monster appearing — it's beautiful. And I think, 'Yes! I am that creature!’” Make sure to read the full profile for a look at a talented, chronically underappreciated actor. —CF
Menashe, now out in some cities, is a rarity: a foreign-language film (it’s in Yiddish) set in New York City about an Orthodox Jewish community. The movie garnered raves at its Sundance debut earlier this year for its sensitive portrayal of a widower (played by Menashe Lustig) struggling to retain custody of his son in a community where single-parent homes are unheard of. Rather than challenge that norm from a more progressive outside perspective, the movie accepts the terms as it tells the story, using mostly non-actors. The result is respectful, surprising, and moving. —AW
The newly released second volume of writer-artist Natalie Riess’s Space Battle Lunchtime wraps up the delightful cosmic culinary adventures of Peony, a human baker who finds herself competing in an intergalactic cooking competition where the ingredients are as alien as her fellow contestants. Subtitled “A Recipe for Disaster,” volume two centers on the show’s season finale, which is thrown into jeopardy when Peony is kidnapped and forced to compete in another, rougher space-food competition called Cannibal Coliseum (you can probably guess what happens to the losers on that show).
It also sees the full flowering of the touching queer romance that took root in the comic’s first volume, leading to a highly satisfying conclusion for this idiosyncratic middle-grade book. You can now read the whole first-season storyline in two volumes, in about the same amount of time as it would take to watch an episode of Iron Chef, and you absolutely should. —Genevieve Koski
is Trance really a combo of the words Dance and Trash?
While Diplo has helped define the modern sound of EDM, there’s no denying that his smarmy personality — and accusations against his group Major Lazer of appropriating Caribbean dancehall culture — makes him pretty easy to hate. That’s why it’s unbelievably satisfying to watch James Van Der Beek and Viceland parody the producer’s grating Twitter presence as part of the promotional campaign for Viceland’s upcoming parody show What Would Diplo Do?, which premieres on August 3.
To his credit, Diplo seems to be taking the joke in stride. But it’s still a riot to double-take at @_Diplo_’s spot-on spoof tweets, like, “EDM used to stand for Essential Diplo Music back in 2002 when I was the only one doing it,” and, “Sometimes I like to take all my gold and platinum record plaques and build them into a little fort.” Now let’s hope the actual show nails the comedic tone just as perfectly. —GR
Every weekend, we pick a movie you can stream that dovetails with current events. Old, new, blockbuster, arthouse: They’re all fair game. What you can count on is a weekend watch that sheds new light on the week that was. The movie of the week for July 30 through August 5 is Ace in the Hole (1951), which is available to digitally rent on YouTube, Amazon, Vudu, and Google Play.
This week really began a week ago Friday, with Sean Spicer’s resignation from his role as White House press secretary. That event kicked off one hell of a political news cycle: health care votes in the Senate, Jared Kushner’s “I did not collude” speech from the White House driveway, and President Trump’s tweets attacking Jeff Sessions and transgender people in the military. By the time new White House communications director Anthony Scaramucci called CNN’s New Day on Thursday morning to sling barely veiled blame at Reince Priebus for leaks, it was hard to know whether we were watching CNN, or Game of Thrones, or some kind of traveling circus that rolled into Washington overnight.
And despite Scaramucci’s own leaky crusade against leaks, the flow of information out of the White House seems unlikely to stop anytime soon, given that if a leak is ultimately discussed on Fox & Friends, it seems more likely to get the attention of the president. The more sensational, the better the chance it will attract attention.
Lots of movies about the media, from Network to Nightcrawler, have often commented on the tendency of the news — especially TV news — to favor the dramatic and spectacular over the mundane and complicated. One of the most unforgettable examples is Ace in the Hole, Billy Wilder’s 1951 film starring Kirk Douglas as a disgraced reporter who’s trying to fight his way back into the journalistic spotlight by reporting, and eventually rigging, a big story.
Douglas is at his charismatic peak as Chuck Tatum, a former star reporter forced to head west and find employment at a small local paper after being fired from 11 different newspapers for a range of transgressions, from libel to drunkenness to adultery. He’s sure he’s too good for everyone he now works with at the Albuquerque Sun-Bulletin, and all he wants is to work his way back up to the top.
Then one day, Tatum catches wind of a promising scoop: a local man (Richard Benedict) has gotten trapped in a cave, where he was gathering Indian artifacts. Knowing how well the details of such a scenario will play in the papers (even in an era before 24/7 cable news), Tatum takes off with the paper’s photographer, Herbie Cooke (Robert Arthur), in tow. He convinces the town sheriff to get the contractor who’s tasked with rescuing the man to drill in from above: It’ll look cooler in the photos, and it will take longer, which will help Tatum’s story dominate the news cycle.
It’s no spoiler to say that things don’t end well. Ace in the Hole — which was originally released with the title The Big Carnival — is not just satirical but downright bitter about how fame can corrupt the public interest once unscrupulous attention seekers like Tatum get involved. Today, just over 66 years after its release, it feels prophetic.
When you’re enmeshed in the treadmill of the news cycle, it can be hard to make out the forest for all the trees whizzing past. But stepping back with Ace in the Hole is a good reminder that while the internet and the 24-hour news cycle and media-addicted leaders may feel like modern problems, the seeds of destructive attention grubbing have always lay there, planted way down deep in the human heart.
Watch the trailer for Ace in the Hole:
Looking back, it seems so obvious. We should have seen The Emoji Movie’s utter awfulness coming. But as with so many other things in 2017, hindsight is not so much 20/20 as a giant regret generator.
All the signs were there. First there was the announcement at CinemaCon in 2016: Sony was going to release a movie set in the world of smartphone apps and emojis, which the studio viewed as not just something the youths would like (because they are obsessed with their phones, doncha know) but also as a great opportunity to rake in the product placement — excuse me, partner — bucks from apps that would appear in the film.
Rating
Then there was what seems to have been a short-lived attempt to name the film Emojimovie: Express Yourself, because, as Sony Pictures Animation president Kristine Belson put it in a press release, “The power of emojis is that they allow you to express yourself in a fast and very fun way, and that is what our movie is about: self expression.” (This title was mercifully abandoned somewhere along the way for the simpler, less eyestabby The Emoji Movie.)
After that, there was a bit of a lull, punctuated only by occasional reminders of the movie’s impending arrival via movie posters, trailers, and the announcement in January that the great Sir Patrick Stewart would be voicing the Poo emoji. That announcement boded well for the film, and briefly I thought it might turn out okay after all, or at least pretty self-aware.
Maybe like last summer’s Sausage Party, it would mix some interesting social critique into its animated entertainment — goodness knows that a movie about the changing ways we communicate with our phones had plenty of opportunities to serve up a little bit of good alongside mostly fluffy entertainment.
But then on Monday, the official Emoji Movie Twitter account tweeted a new ad that one can only assume that someone at Sony thought would be quirky and hip:
Using The Handmaid’s Tale — a serious work of fiction and a recent, highly regarded Hulu TV show about a dystopian society in which women are ritually raped — as a lighthearted marketing peg was a pretty good indication that The Emoji Movie wasn’t going to be self-aware and clever and thoughtful.
Most likely, it was going to be a garbage fire. And now that I’ve seen it, I can confirm that suspicion: The Emoji Movie is a waste of time, resources, and a bunch of comedians’ voices, plus a premise that actually had the potential to do some small good in the world. It’s less of a movie and more of an insult.
Still, as a critic, you walk into every movie — even the ones you’re pretty sure are going to stink up the joint — with a sense of hope and willingness to be amazed. And The Emoji Movie, friends, is certainly amazing.
It’s amazing that we can put a man on the moon but movies like this still somehow get made. It’s amazing that with all that partner money, Sony couldn’t pay for a better script, with better lines of humorous dialogue to be delivered by the emojis than, “Throw some sauce on that dance burrito!”
It’s amazing — or maybe it isn’t — that in addition to its poorly conceived Handmaid’s Tale stunt, the filmmakers saw fit to have a character sing, “Nobody knows the touch screens I’ve seen / Nobody knows the screenshots,” while sitting atop a pile of trash, to the tune of “Nobody Knows the Trouble I’ve Seen,” a spiritual written by slaves to bolster their spirits while toiling in the pre-Emancipation American South.
It’s amazing to witness the baldly commercial attempt to shove as many recognizable apps as possible into The Emoji Movie’s sad excuse for a plot: Crackle (owned by Sony), WeChat (hugely popular in China, where this movie is aiming to make a killing), Facebook, YouTube, Instagram, Twitter, and Dropbox all make appearances, with Dropbox in particular representing a kind of heaven that some of the emojis are trying to reach. And there are two whole sequences that add nothing whatsoever to the story but suggest that King and Ubisoft — the makers of the apps Candy Crush and Just Dance, respectively — paid handsomely for their inclusion in the film.
But ... about that story. The emojis all live in Textopolis, located within a (brandless) smartphone owned by a high school freshman named Alex. In Textopolis, everyone has one function and one function only; the smiles smile, the crying faces cry, the Christmas trees stand still and look Christmassy, the princesses talk about being pretty, and the sushi just ... sits around getting warm, I guess (as does the eggplant, in case you were curious).
Each day, the emoji report to work and wait in their designated box on a big grid to be tapped by Alex for his communication needs. And they love it. They are part of what the movie unironically declares is “the most important invention in the history of communication.” (A brief scene in which a high school teacher is lecturing on hieroglyphics seems to contradict this, but who’s counting.)
But one emoji in particular is having a tough time with being confined to both a literal and a figurative box: Gene (voiced by T.J. Miller), a “meh” emoji and the son of Mel and Mary Meh. Gene can’t stick to just one expression. He wants to smile and frown and sometimes have heart eyes. He wants to express himself! But he’s so worried he’ll mess up that on his first day at work, he freaks out when Alex selects him and ends up appearing as a weird, distorted face.
Aha! He’s been found out as a “malfunction,” and the emoji head honcho, Smiler (Maya Rudolph) — who runs things because she was the very first emoji — starts the proceedings to delete Gene entirely, with a massive sinister grin pasted across her face the whole time. (That’s Smiler up there in the ill-conceived “Emoji’s Tale” ad, by the way. The metaphor does not work.)
Trying to figure out what to do, Gene teams up with Hi-5 (James Corden), who has recently been downgraded from the VIP “favorites” section of Alex’s keyboard and is pretty sore about it. Hi-5 is certain there’s a way to save Gene and maybe sneakily upgrade his own status in the phone’s universe: They must find a mysterious hacker they call Jailbreak (Anna Faris).
But that requires leaving Textopolis and venturing out into the wide world of apps on Alex’s phone. And it’s dangerous out there.
The visualization of Alex’s phone’s world is the film’s high point, by a long shot. (If you were expecting its high point to be Sir Patrick Stewart as Poo, you will be disappointed; he has maybe six lines in the whole movie, all quips.) It vaguely recalls the parts of Inside Out in which the emotions (and Bing Bong) are traversing Riley’s subconscious mind, a landscape filled with set pieces that have to be visually interesting because there’s nothing concrete to draw on.
But Inside Out knew that the purpose of set pieces is to advance the plot. In The Emoji Movie, the purpose of set pieces is to have a place to make use of app developers’ partnership money — and it shows in the shoddy storytelling. If you cropped out those set piece scenes, you’d have pretty much the same film.
And they’re not even funny. Two big scenes into Gene, Jailbreak, and Hi-5’s journey, a little girl sitting behind me said, “Mommy, I want to go home now.”
The Emoji Movie’s director and co-writer, Tony Leondis, seems to admire Pixar’s films greatly; in addition to the Inside Out resonances, he’s said in interviews that he took inspiration from Toy Story. “That’s really what I was thinking, ‘What is the new toy out there that hasn’t been explored?’” he told ScreenRant. “And I looked down on my phone and someone had sent me an emoji, and I was like, ‘Emojis are the new toys — they’re the toys of the 21st century.’”
Eh, slow down there, Tony. What made Toy Story — which has plenty of product placement of its own — so wonderful was that it was, in essence, a story about the toys’ owners, which includes both the film’s Andy and us out in the audience. It was about growing older and finding your way, and about imagination. Buzz Lightyear is a great counterpoint to Woody in the film because he is new and clueless, and the drama in the original film and its two wonderful sequels comes from seeing how the micro-drama of the toys is actually just a reflection of Andy’s journey as he grows older.
The Emoji Movie keeps the “fun stuff kids play with” part of Toy Story and ditches all of its humanity. There’s no drama here. It’s hard to care what happens to Gene Meh (even making him a “meh” seems like a weirdly easy gimme for critics), though a more disciplined screenplay could have trotted out the tired but still accurate children’s movie sentiment about always being true to yourself.
It also could have taken Jailbreak’s storyline and fleshed it out, rather than giving her about three eye-rolling, performatively feminist lines that seem spliced in to ward off anyone who brings up the sexist history of emojis. (And commentary on that history is sloppily integrated in the film; Jailbreak repeatedly corrects Hi-5 about his outdated stereotypes regarding her variety of emoji, only to reinforce the very same stereotype in the film’s climactic scene.)
Or it could have noticed that its target audience — kids who have access to phones at earlier and earlier ages — might benefit from a movie that makes them think a little about whether they should always be staring at little screens.
Instead, it’s a pointless romp with lousy dialogue that fails to even be fun, though it does begin to approach so-bad-it’s-good territory. There was plenty of laughter at my screening, but of the laughing-at, not laughing-with variety. The Emoji Movie’s grand contribution to our world, alas, will be a new dance called the “Emoji-Pop," or possible the "Emoji-Bop," in which you do whatever you want with your legs to loud club music while putting your hands up to your face repeatedly, in a kind of hellish game of peek-a-boo, with a new expression every time you take your hands away.
(The movie also suggests you can delete “trolls” in the same manner in which you delete emails, apps, and apparently emojis; would that it twere so simple.)
And that’s all in addition to the movie’s lousy, constant product placement, which is its worst attribute by far. If you don’t believe me, consider this: Our heroes are being chased by destroyer bots (it’s a long story) through the phone’s landscape and then, finally, they reach the much-touted Dropbox icon and run through the wall, where at last they will be safe. The bot follows them but bounces against the wall. Gene asks if the bot will be able to break into the app. “Don’t worry, it can’t get in,” Jailbreak reassures him. “It’s illegal malware, and this app is secure!”
Presented with such a stinking pile of poo, what can you possibly do? You can’t review it in all emojis — that’s too easy. You can’t explore its interesting ideas about children, phones, language, and communication, because it doesn’t have any. You can’t even fully describe in words, or emojis, the frustration of seeing money blithely poured into a film that’s one massive, uncritical ad for something nearly everyone in the theater already owns, dressed up as family-friendly entertainment.
All there’s left to say is that giving money to a movie like this is only going to encourage more like it. So please: Don’t do it. Stay home. Watch literally anything else. And maybe put down your phone.
The Emoji Movie opens in theaters on July 28.
This article has been corrected to accurately reflect the name of the emojis’ hometown. It is Textopolis.
Welcome to the Vox weekly book link roundup, a curated selection of the best writing online about books and related topics. Here’s the best the internet has to offer for the week of July 23, 2017.
The play’s setting is a hotel room and the characters besides the Victim are “an asthmatic husband, a devoted wife and a doctor.” The “weapon” is a mustard plaster, given to a man, the Victim, who doesn’t need it. “The Reconstruction of the Crime” begins with the Victim poking his head through the curtains and asking for quiet.
“Please don’t applaud,” he says. “Of course I like it; we all like it. But not just now. This is much too serious. The fact is I want to take you into my confidence: to ask your assistance. A horrible crime has been committed. An outrage almost beyond description has been perpetrated upon an inoffensive gentleman staying in a country hotel, and the guilty person has to be found.”
The news cycle has sucked the air out of the room. The disastrous and almost comically incompetent Trump presidency has both frightened the reading market away from popular books and functioned as a kind of mass entertainment with which it is difficult to compete, with Senate hearings and official testimonies becoming must-see TV.
I decided to place at the center of my story something I would come to call “The Great Wall of Freedom” — a huge, heavily armed and guarded wall between our country and Mexico. It would symbolize not just the fear and racism plaguing large parts of America, but also our drift towards isolationism. The wall we put up between ourselves and our neighbor represented, well, the metaphorical walls we put up between ourselves and our neighbors, particularly our neighbors who aren’t white. America, as I saw it, was giving up on the rest of the world, and with this, it was giving up on any notion of responsibility or respect for anything but itself.
Indeed “The Second Plane” is such a weak, risible and often objectionable volume that the reader finishes it convinced that Mr. Amis should stick to writing fiction and literary criticism, as he’s thoroughly discredited himself with these essays as any sort of political or social commentator.
To women — some women, my kind of women — this book is something more, not merely beloved or popular but foundational. “Give me a girl at an impressionable age and she is mine for life,” Muriel Spark’s Jean Brodie declared, and so it is with Daphne du Maurier. What begins as a taste for her twisty plots, briny wit and bracingly bleak view of marriage becomes an addiction (and one that can withstand some very purple prose).
Weirdly, the goblins sold most of their fruit in the late afternoon,
which is not a great time for fruit-selling because most farmer’s markets are in the morning. But timely or not, that’s when the fruit was available.
Lizzie tried to buy some fruit for her sister, and since the dwarves also stood to gain from the exchange, they definitely sold her some, instead of jamming cherries and whatnot into her face and ripping her hair out.
Which would be a completely inappropriate response,
as a seller of fruit, to someone who said, “Hey, can I buy some fruit?”
Happy reading!
With “Stormborn,” Game of Thrones quietly pulled off one of its most shocking scenes in ages.
Euron Greyjoy swashbuckling in out of nowhere to wreak bloody hell might have been more purely spectacular, and Arya reuniting (however briefly) with her long-lost direwolf is the kind of moment fans dream of for years. But to my mind, “Stormborn” will always be a singular episode of Game of Thrones for its downright lovely sex scene between Grey Worm and Missandei, both shedding their fears and exposing their vulnerabilities to share some unexpected intimacy.
Related
Grey Worm (Jacob Anderson) and Missandei (Nathalie Emmanuel) have stood by Daenerys Targaryen since the third season, providing priceless counsel as the Dragon Queen tries to both understand and conquer lands that lay far outside her own realm of lived experience. Missandei, a translator, helps Dany determine who’s her friend and who’s her enemy; Grey Worm, an Unsullied soldier, provides military insight and stalwart loyalty.
In their past lives as slaves, both Missandei and Grey Worm were unable to express themselves or their desires. And even as they’ve eyed each other with increasing interest over the past couple of seasons or so, they haven’t exactly been leaping into each other’s arms, give or take a chaste kiss in season five. (Not that there’s ever been much time for that, given how much their queen has vowed to do, let alone how many balls Game of Thrones has in the air between its seven kingdoms.)
But in the midst of shifting alliances and splashy sea battles that headlined the action in “Stormborn,” Game of Thrones gave Grey Worm and Missandei a real moment to look each other in the eye and admit that they love each other — and want to be together in more ways than one. This would no doubt surprise the hell out of every character who’s made fun of Grey Worm over the years for being castrated, as is tradition for Unsullied soldiers. But with this scene, which took place as Grey Worm prepared to set sail for Casterly Rock, Game of Thrones gave Grey Worm the opportunity to express his longing for Missandei, and for her to reciprocate with the kind of tenderness this show rarely affords its sex scenes.
There are a few things about Grey Worm and Missandei’s scene that are so far afield of a more typical Game of Thrones sex scene that I almost wondered if I had accidentally changed the channel.
For starters, it’s patient. When Game of Thrones deigns to show consenting people having sex, it’s usually more like watching two people scratch an itch. Sex on the show is most often reserved for soldiers stealing time between wars in bar corners, or aristocrats luxuriating in brothels. Even Jaime and Cersei Lannister — who, perversely enough, have served as one of the show’s most steadfast couples despite being siblings — lunge into their moments of intimacy with a fervency so intense it’s practically desperate. Overall, Game of Thrones primarily characterizes sex as rough, quick, and utilitarian — when it’s not outright assault, that is.
The closest analogue to Grey Worm and Missandei’s first time is maybe Jon Snow and Ygritte’s in season three, in which Jon — like Grey Worm — proves he is a Sensitive Man by going down on Ygritte instead of insisting on the other way around. But Jon and Ygritte still found their sexual awakening in a burst of passion they could no longer hold in; Grey Worm and Missandei eased into it, guiding each other with long, languid looks for reassurance.
There’s a moment after they kiss when Missandei breaks away from Grey Worm in which you can see his heart break in real time, but he respects that she doesn’t want him — until she sheds her clothes and encourages him, gently, to do the same. It was in this moment — especially because I was watching “Stormborn” after spending last week marathoning Game of Thrones’ sixth season — that I realized there hasn’t actually been much sex on the show since season five, when sexual assault may as well have had a “supporting actor” credit.
That was the season when Ramsay (repeatedly) raped Sansa to motivate Theon’s journey, causing the show to come under significant fire for its streak of unrepentant cruelty. It then noticeably backed off in season six — but it frankly speaks volumes that temporarily excising sexual assault storylines also resulted in temporarily excising the show of sex, period. With this interlude between Grey Worm and Missandei, the show made a point of including a sex scene that not only isn’t rushed but is unquestionably, meticulously consensual.
Finally, the scene also spotlighted two characters of color in a way that Game of Thrones rarely does. By allowing Grey Worm and Missandei to give in to seasons’ worth of simmering tension in this way, Game of Thrones did something completely unprecedented in terms of its history, which otherwise only tells stories about people of color in relation to how their arcs affect the white main characters (such as Dany). It let these former slaves — the two most significant characters of color the show has arguably ever had — find peace with each other, and only each other.
But the aspect of this scene that floored me most is that it took a serious, respectful approach to both Grey Worm’s castration and his insecurity around it — which, for a show that’s usually obsessed with penises, may be the most shocking thing of all.
While Game of Thrones’ HBO sibling Silicon Valley has been doing its best to feature the most dick jokes per square inch of television, the former still easily has a hold on the crown.
From the streets of Westeros to the blazing Dothraki deserts to the frozen Wildling tundra beyond the Wall, almost every man on Game of Thrones is pretty obsessed with penises (even if the show itself rarely shows them). This world has always been one that runs on ale and machismo, with men whipping out their (literal) swords to prove their manly worth, bragging about their many conquests to prove their manly worth, or, worse, raping women to inflate their conquest count to prove their manly worth.
Any time men on this show want to make other men feel like shit, they’ll dismiss each other’s dicks. And when Euron Greyjoy promised the Ironborn toward the end of season six that he would sail the seas to plunder towns and give Daenerys his “big cock,” he was embodying the kind of swaggering, sexist bravado that’s fueled his men for centuries.
But season six also made a point of highlighting all the worthy contenders for the Iron Throne who don’t have penises at all. After five seasons of Westeros running on relentless toxic masculinity, season six cleared the way for more women than ever to ascend to power, from Yara Greyjoy gunning for the Salt Throne to Sansa Stark reshaping the North to Cersei Lannister wiping out an entire city that wronged her.
That season’s overt rejection of Game of Thrones’ usual chauvinism also shined a spotlight Theon Greyjoy. His torture at the hands of Ramsay Bolton left him a different man from the arrogant one he was before — and, not coincidentally, hinged on the particular humiliation of Ramsay cutting off his penis. Ever since, hardly a scene featuring Theon goes by without someone mentioning the fact that he barely counts as a man anymore, because what’s a man without his dick?
This is the kind of pervasive attitude that informed the visceral fear we saw on Grey Worm’s face as Missandei reached to take off his pants. For all his bravery, physical might, and demonstrated passion for doing what is good and fair, he was still terrified that the woman he’s come to love would see him naked and laugh in his face — or, maybe worse still, pity him. (Seriously, go back and watch Anderson’s astonishing performance here; every muscle in his face is so beautifully, nakedly vulnerable.)
But Missandei doesn’t do any of that. Instead, she gazes at his body, and she smiles. In that moment, he knows he’s safe, and they find an alternate way of being together that has nothing to do with his genitalia or lack thereof. Even if the countless men we’ve seen animalistically pumping away at women could never understand it, the fact remains that sex can be completely satisfying whether or not there’s a penis involved. It’s refreshing — not to mention long overdue — that Game of Thrones now seems to know that.
The Incredible Jessica James is ostensibly a romantic comedy, loosely centered on a nascent relationship between its titular star, played by stand-up comedian and former The Daily Show correspondent Jessica Williams, and a recent divorcee played by Chris O’Dowd. But what it actually is is a hangout film, that Tarantino-coined term for movies whose primary appeal is the opportunity to spend time in the presence of likable, compelling characters, no matter the action going on around them.
The term is often relegated to the realm of ensemble films (Dazed and Confused being the go-to example), but in the case of this movie, it’s more of a one-on-one hang, between the viewer and one Jessica James, a struggling New York playwright who’s trying to get past a recent breakup.
Rating
On paper, that characterization sounds entirely unremarkable — oh boy, another Sundance darling about a struggling and/or broken-hearted New York artist! But in Williams’s hands, Jessica James becomes a diamond-sharp protagonist, and the only defining feature of an otherwise formless movie.
Thankfully, The Incredible Jessica James seems to know where its strengths lie, and doesn’t attempt to expand beyond its protagonist’s immediate perspective. Not only does this prevent the svelte 85-minute movie from overstaying its welcome (something many modern comedies could stand to emulate), but it keeps the focus on Williams, who is pretty much the only thing animating writer-director James Strouse’s otherwise stagnant tale of personal and professional growth.
Okay, in fairness, Jessica James has some other bright spots in its cast, particularly O’Dowd, doing his familiar but effective hangdog-paramour thing, and Lakeith Stanfield as Jessica’s ex, who shows up mostly in fantasy/dream sequences as a sort of avatar of Jessica’s subconscious. But they feel like accessories to the main event that is Jessica James, a funny and forthright ball of confidence who seems to exist in perpetual limbo between cynicism and optimism.
Jessica’s a playwright who’s never had any of her work produced in New York, a bleak track record that doesn’t stop her from finding comfort in a personalized rejection letter, instead of the standard form letter, or from encouraging young kids to love theater via her work with a nonprofit. Nor does she let her failed relationship with Stanfield’s Damon, or a subsequent string of cringe-y Tinder dates/booty calls, deter her from saying yes to a seemingly ill-advised setup with O’Dowd’s Boone.
Boone is an app developer who seemingly couldn’t have less in common with Jessica. And when their terrible first date improbably leads to something more, there’s the sense that it’s less the result of an inextinguishable spark between the pair, and more just another example of Jessica’s commitment to keep barreling ahead in life, to hell with whatever obstacles she may encounter along the way.
Jessica’s confidence in the face of a world that seems determined to beat her down is her defining characteristic, and Williams conveys it beautifully in her performance. Williams’s forthrightness and poise in the role make Jessica’s penchant for brutal honesty feel bold and refreshing, rather than like a mean-spirited defense mechanism, and her standup-honed comedic timing brings life to otherwise stale interactions (particularly those between Jessica and her young students). Jessica isn’t invulnerable, nor is she without flaws, but she’s so damn assured of herself that it’s a pleasure just to witness her radiance, to imagine living a life with so little shame or artifice.
The problem is that Jessica James, and by extension Jessica James, doesn’t have a distinctive arc. Things are sort of tough for Jessica, then they’re sort of not — there’s no development or build to give the movie shape. It’s more a series of vignettes charting a loose course toward a conclusion that seems designed to subvert expectations, but fails to do so because the movie doesn’t really do much to establish those expectations in the first place. The story lopes along from one funny and/or touching interaction to the next, but Jessica remains more or less unchanged throughout. This gives the sense that her getting past the struggles she’s facing is less a matter of her changing as a person, and more a matter of her simply waiting things out until time, and perhaps a little good luck, brings closure.
That very well may be the point: A lot of life’s problems do tend to just resolve themselves in time, particularly heartbreak, and it’s certainly possible to find success without fundamentally changing as a person. And why would someone as obviously incredible as Jessica James need to change, anyway? Sometimes life just sort of happens, it’s not always a series of life-defining incidents — surely there’s something to be said for a story that seems to recognize that?
And there is something to be said for it: For all its shapelessness, The Incredible Jessica James is often a damn good hang, an excuse to spend some time with a character far more compelling than the movie she anchors. But that very quality is also what makes The Incredible Jessica James far less compelling and memorable than its title character and Williams herself.
Few new series arriving this fall are as highly anticipated as Hulu’s Runaways, an adaptation of the 2005 Marvel comic created by Brian K. Vaughan and Adrian Alphonsa.
The series focuses on six teenagers who learn two very big things: 1) they have superpowers, and 2) their parents are supervillains. They’re forced to decide whether they will take down their parents or give in to what might seem to be their evil legacy.
As Josh Schwartz, executive producer for the Hulu series, puts it, “Every teenager thinks their parents are evil. What if they actually were?”
There are plenty of great reasons to anticipate Runaways, from its impeccable casting of some exciting young actors (including One Day at a Time’s Ariela Barer and Casual’s Rhenzy Feliz) to the fact that Schwartz and Stephanie Savage, who’ve worked together on everything from The OC to Gossip Girl to Hart of Dixie, are involved in the show.
It’s still too early for critics to have seen any episodes — the show will debut Tuesday, November 21, shortly before Thanksgiving — but the series’ panel at the 2017 Television Critics Association summer press tour did tease some intriguing nuggets. Here are five things to know.
Hulu’s version of Runaways has kept the basic idea of its source material, but Schwartz said that Vaughan wrote Runaways’ first run — which ended after just 18 issues — in a rush, constantly thinking it would be canceled out from under him. So those first 18 issues are packed with huge twists, and they set up and resolve an entire story arc.
The series will follow the books — but not to the point of utter faithfulness. In particular, said Marvel Television’s Jeph Loeb, he liked that slowing down some of the storytelling would allow many players who were backgrounded in the comics to benefit from stronger character development.
The goal, said Schwartz, was to find a way to make the show “sustainable” across multiple seasons. And considering that Schwartz and Savage have had their own shows that blew through lots of story very quickly, then flailed in later seasons (most notably The OC), they’ll have learned from experience.
Schwartz said the first episode of Runaways will focus on the events that reveal the true allegiances of the Runaways’ parents, but the second episode will tell that story from the parents’ point of view, with the two storylines colliding after that.
Savage said Schwartz was one of the main voices in the writers’ room asking for more time spent with the parents. When he first read the comics, Savage said, he wasn’t yet a parent, but now that he is, he was interested in why the parents in the comic act as they do.
Just how much the show will focus on the parents in addition to the kids remains to be seen. But all involved seemed to talk as if the show is hoping to set up the kids’ parents as villains for seasons to come — as opposed to resolving the kids-versus-parents conflict in season one, as might be suggested by those first 18 issues of the comics.
Loeb said that when Marvel first started thinking seriously about which of its properties would work best on television, Runaways was near the top of the list. But the company wanted to make sure it could get the right people on board to bring a teen drama to the air. At the top of its wish list were Schwartz and Savage. So when the two came in for a general meeting at Marvel TV and said the Marvel title they were most interested in working on was Runaways, everyone immediately hit the ground running.
One of the running jokes in the comic series is that the Runaways can’t get the Avengers to come help them because the kids are based in Los Angeles, while the bigger, more famous superheroes are all based in New York. (Only in the Marvel universe would Los Angeles be a provincial backwater!)
Loeb didn’t directly say that the TV series will use that exact reason to explain why the Runaways don’t ever hang out with the Avengers (and by extension, why the larger, more famous Marvel movie universe doesn’t cross over with its TV universe — aside from corporate schisms), but he did say that the show is nevertheless part of the Marvel universe as a whole. He declined to say any more, because he didn’t want to directly define the relationship between the two.
Still, he said, would a bunch of teenagers really care about what Captain America or Iron Man had to say? “Would you be following Iron Man [on social media], or would you be following someone that was more your age?” he asked. “The fact that they’ve found each other and they’re going through this mystery together at the moment is what they’re concerned about.”
To be fair, journalists — forever trying to get entertainers to talk about what their art has to say about Donald Trump — pushed this angle on the panel before it came up organically. But the folks behind Runaways admitted that a program that’s all about questioning authority might have certain resonances in this era, especially for those who lean left.
“Just because somebody’s in charge doesn’t mean they’re here to do good,” Schwartz said. Actress Ariela Barer, who plays the social justice–driven Gert, looped that idea into the show’s larger themes. “No matter how evil you could decide your parents are, you learn your ideals from them, and you become the person you are from them,” she said. And if that’s the case, what does that make you?
If Runaways can thread that needle between the heavily personal story of teenagers questioning everything their parents stand for and the more ambiguously sociopolitical story of what it means for any of us to question the ideals of the world we grew up in, it could be something special.
Legendary book critic Michiko Kakutani is retiring from her role as the chief book reviewer at the New York Times, Vanity Fair reports.
My gratitude & thanks to the NYTMoving on to focus on longer pieces about politics & culture, though i will always love & write about books
Kakutani, who won a Pulitzer for her criticism in 1998, has been on the staff of the New York Times since 1979 and became a book critic in 1983. During that time she helped launched the careers of literary darlings like Zadie Smith (“someone who can do comedy, drama and satire, and do them all with exceptional confidence and brio”) and George Saunders (“a savage satirist with a sentimental streak”) — and pissed off everyone from Jonathan Franzen to J.K. Rowling.
“The stupidest person in New York City is currently the lead reviewer of fiction for the New York Times,” said Franzen in 2008, two years after Kakutani called his memoir The Discomfort Zone “an odious self-portrait of the artist as a young jackass,” wondering aloud “why anyone would be interested in pages and pages about this unhappy relationship or the self-important and self-promoting contents of Mr. Franzen’s mind.” Franzen went on to complain that “so few people are actually doing serious criticism. It’s so snarky, it’s so ad hominum [sic], it’s so black and white.”
In 2007, meanwhile, Kakutani reviewed a copy of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (purchased by a New York Times staffer at a chain store in Chelsea) two days before it went on sale, breaking the book’s strict embargo. Kakutani was effusive in her praise and included no spoilers, but Rowling nonetheless described herself as “staggered” that the Times would break the embargo “in complete disregard of the wishes of literally millions of readers, particularly children.”
Kakutani’s unflinching ability to get under authors’ skin has been a major contributing factor to her reputation for objectivity, but it isn’t what made her famous. Instead, it’s the methodical precision of her reviews, which seem to weigh every aspect of a book effortlessly — style, content, character, plot, that certain je ne sais quoi — before coming to a decision: yay or nay?
The Times has curated a list of Kakutani’s best reviews, but if you only have time for one, the lightness of her critical hand is perhaps best expressed by her review of Hitler: Ascent 1889-1939, which went viral this fall. Without ever mentioning Donald Trump’s name or using the word “timely,” Kakutani manages to make it perfectly clear exactly why this particular “Shakespearean parable” was particularly relevant for September 2016. “Hitler’s rise was not inevitable,” she opined in a widely quoted paragraph.
The New York Times has not yet announced a new chief book critic, but it has announced that Parul Sehgal, currently a columnist and senior editor at the New York Times Book Review, will be joining Dwight Garner and Jennifer Senior as one of the Times’s daily book reviewers.
Sehgal is also a frequent contributor to the podcast Inside the New York Times Book Review, where she waxes enthusiastic and esoteric on books like Cleopatra’s Nose (“really sensually written”) and The Age of Insight (“it makes you seethe with ideas”). What’s compelling about Sehgal’s criticism is how deeply she seems to love the books she writes about; she writes with a sort of infectious, deeply intellectual glee.
So as the Times prepares to say farewell to Michiko Kakutani, who is as close as one can get to becoming an institution in the world of book reviewing, it’s already done a fantastic job at finding and spotlighting the kind of talent who can begin to fill her shoes.
“All children, except one, grow up.”
When J.M. Barrie wrote that line about Peter Pan in 1911, it was generally taken as the expression of a beautiful and melancholy fantasy: Children are so lovely and so innocent that it seems a shame that they have to stop being children eventually. Peter Pan, the boy who wouldn’t grow up, is the expression of the dream that they may not have to, and as such he is both beautiful and tragic.
But in our own era, the idea of a child who never grows up has a decidedly sinister bent to it.
Since Peter Pan’s EU copyright expired in 2008, reimaginings and remixes of the story have flourished, including most recently Christina Henry’s Lost Boy: The True Story of Captain Hook. And most of those reimaginings, Lost Boy included, have tended to transform the eternally innocent Peter into a villain.
It’s true that we live in an era that’s particularly prone to giving dark-and-gritty reboots to beloved children’s properties (see Anne of Green Gables but with PTSD and sex-and-murder-filled Archie Comics), but Peter Pan seems to lend itself particularly well to this kind of transformation. It’s remarkably easy to recast Barrie’s “gay and innocent and heartless” Peter as a villain, and just as easy to reimagine Captain Hook — the former Eton student who is obsessed with “good form” — as a hero (see Once Upon a Time, The Child Thief, Hook and Jill, and dozens of other recent Peter Pan retellings).
You don’t even need to change the mythology of Neverland all that much — you just need to turn the setting of Neverland from a game, with game logic, into the literal truth. Then all of the darkness and creepiness that lurks beneath the surface of Barrie’s fantasy island, and all the sinister tragedy that wound through Barrie’s life, suddenly becomes legible. Because since the character’s inception, Peter Pan has been both fantasy and nightmare, both for Barrie himself and for the family of little boys who inspired him throughout their short, bleak lives.
J.M. Barrie began the story of Peter Pan in his 1902 novel The Little White Bird. It’s the semi-autobiographical tale of a man becoming enamored of a little boy who he wants to steal away from his mother; in order to befriend the child, he makes up the story of Peter Pan, the fairy/bird/baby who lives in London’s Kensington Gardens.
Peter Pan is a week-old baby when he leaves home, and he never ages past that marker. He believes that his mother will always leave the window open for him, so he plays gleefully with the fairies and the birds without fear of losing her affection, but when he finally makes up his mind to go back to her, he finds that it’s too late: The windows are barred, and his mother is cuddling another baby. Her love was conditional after all, and now she’s replaced him. It’s a portrait of Peter Pan that’s much more tragic than the iconic portrait to come.
The whole thing was based on Barrie’s own relationship with George Llewelyn Davies, a 5-year-old boy he met in Kensington Gardens when he was 37 (Barrie’s dog, the basis for Nana, ran right up to him), and for whom he nursed a deep affection. Barrie was soon to develop a similarly deep and jealous friendship with George’s four little brothers: John, Michael, Nicholas, and Peter, the last of whom would ultimately share his name with Peter Pan.
Critics and biographers have been arguing for decades about whether or not there was anything sexual about Barrie’s affection for the boys, and the question has never been settled to anyone’s satisfaction. Most of Barrie’s contemporaries described him as asexual, although he was married twice (he never fathered any children of his own). “I don't believe that Uncle Jim ever experienced what one might call a stirring in the undergrowth for anyone — man, woman, adult or child,” Nicholas, the youngest of the Llewelyn Davies children, remarked as an adult. “He was an innocent."
Sexual or not, the affection was certainly proprietary: After the death of the Llewelyn Davies children’s mother in 1910 (their father had died in 1907), Barrie, then 50 years old, altered her will to suggest that she meant for him to take on guardianship of her sons, rather than their nanny, and so fulfilled the dream of the narrator of The Little White Bird. The Llewelyn Davies children would live with Barrie for years.
But before he became their guardian, Barrie was merely the faithful friend of the Llewelyn Davies boys. He and his wife vacationed with the Llewelyn Davies family, and Barrie played with the children around the lake, creating endless tales of pirates and Indians and fairies. Those stories would become a book of photographs, ostensibly authored by Peter Llewelyn Davies and published by Barrie just for the family, and then the beginnings of the Peter Pan story in The Little White Bird.
In 1904, the story became a play: Peter Pan, or the Boy Who Would Not Grow Up. And in 1911, Barrie turned the play into a book, originally titled Peter and Wendy but soon to become known as Peter Pan. That’s the book we usually think of when we talk about “the original book of Peter Pan,” although it’s several steps removed from “original.”
The Peter Pan of both book and play retains the tragic backstory of the Peter Pan of The Little White Bird, but he is no longer confined to Kensington Gardens. Now, he has all of Neverland to play in, and pirates to fight, and Lost Boys to play with, and Wendy Darling and all of her descendants to transform into mothers to replace his original, inferior mother. He is no longer a tragic week-old baby left to fend for himself, but a gleeful, delighted school-aged sprite, forever crowing, “Oh, the cleverness of me!”
He is, in short, no longer a sentimental Victorian tragedy, but an ageless fantasy, and the only true tragedy is that Wendy will inevitably grow up and thus cannot play with him and be his mother forever. Peter kills pirates and Lost Boys alike without remorse, but these are play deaths that carry no emotional weight with them: You get the sense that his victims will get up smiling and be ready to play again as soon as Peter turns his back.
The emotional weight all comes at the end, when Peter meets the adult Wendy, who is “helpless and guilty, a big woman” with “something inside her … crying, ‘Woman, woman, let go of me!’” because she feels so strongly that she should remain a child for Peter’s sake and for the sake of the child she used to be. By growing up, she’s abandoned Peter just as his first mother did, and this causes Peter to cry — but not for long, because there’s a replacement waiting for him: Wendy’s daughter Jane, and then Jane’s daughter after that. There are always more children to play with, and always more mothers.
Peter Pan became an icon, but the Llewelyn Davies children lived short and tragic lives. George died at 21 as a soldier during World War I in 1915. Michael was just shy of his 21st birthday when he drowned in 1921, in what is widely believed to have been a suicide. John died of lung disease in 1959, at age 65. Peter, who called Peter Pan "that terrible masterpiece,” died of suicide in 1960, at age 63. Only Nicholas, the one who called Barrie “an innocent,” survived until he died of natural causes in 1980, at age 77.
Barrie himself died of pneumonia at age 77, in 1937. But he had been devastated by George and Michael’s deaths years earlier. He had come to think of Peter Pan less as a celebration of the childhood innocence of his young friends and more as a referendum on himself. “It is as if long after writing ‘P. Pan’ its true meaning came to me,” he wrote in a notebook. “Desperate attempt to grow up but can’t.”
Perhaps because the circumstances surrounding Peter Pan were so very sad and dark, once you decide you’re interested in turning Peter into a villain, it’s quite easy to do so.
In both book and play, Peter murders pirates easily, without a care. In the book, we learn that Peter kills the Lost Boys too, either to “thin the herd” or because they are growing up, which is against the rules. He also periodically alters the Lost Boys’ bodies so that they can fit through the tree-holes that lead to their underground lair — and because he cannot tell the difference between pretend and real life, he will sometimes give them pretend meals and refuse to believe that they are still hungry.
The Lost Boys and the Darlings face profound danger throughout both book and play, but Peter tends to find the danger entertaining rather than frightening. He always saves them, but less because he wants to help them and more because it will give him another opportunity to celebrate his own cleverness.
If Neverland is an arena for games — which is how it began, with Barrie and the Llewelyn Davies children inventing wildly around a lake in the countryside — this is fun and silly adventuring and the deaths and mutilation and starvation don’t feel real. But if you begin to take Neverland literally, and to treat the characters who aren’t Peter and the Darlings as real people and not as props to have adventures around, it becomes extremely disturbing.
So in Christina Henry’s Lost Boy, the latest revisionist Peter Pan story, bloodthirsty Peter Pan isn’t so much the spirit of eternal youth, but rather a sinister cult leader. He lures young boys away from their families, periodically starves them, and then drives them to murder each other in a game he always calls “Battle.” The boys adore and hate and fear Peter in equal measure, but because they are alone on the island of Neverland and have no way of returning home, they have to follow him. He is their only protector.
None of that is particularly inconsistent with the characterization of Barrie’s Peter, but Barrie would never care to look at Peter from the perspective of a Lost Boy, because he didn’t create the Lost Boys to be characters with their own perspectives. He created them to be objects in a game. That’s how both book and play treat them. It’s also how Peter treats them, because Peter is a child.
The ability to think of other people as people, and not just as objects in the game of your life, is a characteristic of adulthood. For Peter the eternal child, thinking of other people as people is utterly impossible, and both book and play make that abundantly clear: Peter, who represents youth, is “gay and innocent and heartless,” and no one truly matters to him beyond himself.
It seems that when Barrie first conceived of Peter Pan, he found the fantasy of living as heartlessly as Peter to be immensely appealing, which is why he was able to turn it into a sentimental fairy tale. Later, he found it appalling: He wanted to grow up, to develop true empathy, but felt that he could not.
But both sides of the ideal of the selfish child — the fantasy and the nightmare — live on in Peter Pan. And that’s what makes it exceptionally easy to turn Peter Pan from hero to villain, and to see his author alternately as a beloved genius and as a twisted man who ruins children’s lives.
Atomic Blonde is the kind of movie whose DVD menu you’d make out to in college.
It’s flashy and exciting, and you can imagine its best moments and visuals providing the perfect backdrop for some other activity. You could look up, every so often, to see the neon sizzle and the heroine kick somebody in the head. And then you’d return to whatever you were otherwise engaged in.
Rating
Which is to say that I really liked Atomic Blonde, but I had to overlook a lot of things to come to that conclusion. The story is too convoluted and has at least two too many climaxes (which are distinct from endings; I’m not convinced this movie actually does end, since it’s so intent on pulling the rug out from under the audience over and over again). And director David Leitch is a little too nonchalant about the gigantic pile of corpses his heroine leaves in her wake.
But damned if it doesn’t look cool as hell. And sometimes in life — and in DVD menus you can make out to — all you want is something that looks super awesome, regardless of whether it makes any sense. Atomic Blonde manages that trick in spades.
So with that in mind, here are the five adjectives that best describe the film, already taken out of context and ready to be quoted on its DVD cover.
Leitch (who co-directed 2014’s John Wick) is one of our most promising new action directors. His protagonists tend to be characters who compartmentalize their humanity in order to become merciless death machines. This, to be honest, is one of my least favorite forms of action filmmaking, but something about the way Leitch approaches the subgenre is irresistible.
The director understands that on some level, all action sequences are dance sequences. But rather than pin down the camera and let the actors move in and out of the frame, Leitch moves with the actors, so the dance unfurls around viewers.
In Atomic Blonde, this trademark of his style is most evident in a scene where protagonist Lorraine (the incomparable Charlize Theron) takes out six different men up and down a stairwell, in hopes of protecting a source who’s already been injured. You’ve probably seen at least a couple of action sequences that track a character horizontally — like a side-scrolling level in a video game — but this one is perhaps the most effective I’ve seen at tracking a character moving vertically, without losing the viewer as Lorraine hops between floors, disappears into rooms, and reappears elsewhere. All along, the camera moves with her; edits are cleverly disguised in blurs of movement or pushes through solid objects.
Then, to top it all off, Leitch follows her out into the street, to shoot just a bit of the car chase that follows as part of the same “shot.” Though he’s kinda just showing off by that point, the whole thing is so enthralling that you probably won’t care.
And he brings that level of showmanship to Atomic Blonde’s other action sequences as well, whether they involve Lorraine beating up two men in a moving car or escaping an apartment by leaping off its balcony, while holding a rope tied around an enemy’s neck. This is pretty self-assured stuff, and Leitch always gives the impression of somebody who’s challenging himself, but only a little bit, and wants us to notice the effort, but not too much.
Even when Atomic Blonde’s story becomes pointlessly complicated, to the degree that following it starts to feel like a chore, the look of the movie is pretty darn glorious. It’s heavily influenced by hardboiled film noirs — so there are shadows and dark corners everywhere — but it’s also fond of the bright pink pop of neon, which occasionally illuminates the darkness. Call it neon-noir.
At times, the film looks like one of those computer games where the backgrounds are incredibly beautiful and detailed and the characters moving through them feel all the more like ciphers for the effort that went into on everything else. But the neon! The shadows! It’s just all so cool.
Leitch and Atomic Blonde director of photography Jonathan Sela utilize bright pops of color to full effect throughout the film. It’s set in a needlessly cruel world, taking place during the fall of East Germany in 1989, as people stab each other in the back and a whole nation crumbles. But all of the fluorescent tubing only serves to underline the movie’s greatest provenance: good, bloody pulp.
I’ve made it this far without really discussing Atomic Blonde’s story because, well, the story is mostly pointless busywork. It’s based on The Coldest City, a comic by Antony Johnston and Sam Hart, and screenwriter Kurt Johnstad has heightened two key elements from the detective fiction that so obviously influenced the comic: a world-weary protagonist and a hyper-convoluted plot.
You can follow said plot, more or less, and I expended a lot of energy trying to do so. But the film does very little to make you want to follow it, and in the end, it turns out to have been an exercise in pointlessness, an excuse for some cool visuals and neat action sequences. I was ultimately fine with that, but your mileage may vary.
Suffice to say that Lorraine finds herself dropped into the middle of West Berlin tasked with tracking down a very specific pocket watch containing the names of a whole bunch of deep-undercover secret agents — one of whom is working for the Brits but secretly double-crossing them in favor of the communists. She forms tentative alliances with your standard right-hand man (played here by James McAvoy) and falls for a femme fatale (played here by Sofia Boutella), and all of the standard detective noir tropes play out.
The twisty nature of noir storytelling is more of a feature of the genre than a bug. Noir movies are about how it’s all but impossible to separate the corruption that’s baked into humanity from what’s good about it, which means that big, complicated issues hinge on primal personal slights and vice versa. (Famously, Chinatown is all about really tricky water rights — but also about a father sexually abusing his daughter.)
And where Atomic Blonde falls down is that I’m not sure it quite makes the leap from “this is a complicated story of the fall of communism” to “this is also a personal story about what Lorraine is going through in the wake of so much turmoil in her life.” It wants to get there, but there are several scenes where more clarity about who Lorraine is and what she wants might have better served the film.
Nobody in Atomic Blonde is really pushing themselves, but you don’t fill a movie with actors like Theron, McAvoy, Boutella, John Goodman, Eddie Marsan, Toby Jones, and numerous other well-known names without getting a little boost from just how good they all are. In particular, I loved watching Goodman snarl at Theron and then seeing how she undercut him with a perfectly icy bon mot.
Leitch is not the type of director who elicits Oscar-winning performances from his actors, but he’s really good at getting performers of wildly different varieties into the same headspace. In Atomic Blonde, someone who’s a little more hammy (like McAvoy) is hammy in a way that perfectly aligns with the film’s brooding tone, while someone who’s more naturalistic, like Marsan, tweaks that naturalism just enough to tilt toward ham.
It’s Charlize Theron’s movie, though, and she throws herself into the starring role with gusto. Theron is perhaps the most compelling woman action star since Sigourney Weaver (though this is more due to Hollywood so rarely giving women the chance to excel in these roles than anything else), and Leitch’s camera takes in her form as if she’s a perfectly calibrated machine.
There’s something slightly fetishistic about this. At times, Leitch films Theron like she’s a super-stylish car. He really wants to capture her beauty, but not in a sexualized way. And when she moves — as others step out of her way, like she’s the boulder and they’re the river — you understand why Leitch films her in this fashion. She is both part of this world and also not, slightly alien but trying to relocate her humanity.
It’s a movie star performance, and even if it’s not Theron’s best work, it’s a great reminder of why she’s so fun to watch onscreen.
In the end, what most makes Atomic Blonde easier to take than a lot of movies beloved by the college film bros of the world (and I absolutely count my younger self among their number) is that it has just enough silliness to let you know it understands that it’s a little over-the-top and hard to take. The film has a healthy sense of humor about itself, even amid what would otherwise be a crippling self-seriousness.
Its self-awareness even alleviates some of the storytelling problems I’ve outlined above, to say nothing of the film’s callous disregard for just how much death Lorraine deals. At one point, Goodman’s character (a CIA man) stands atop a random staircase, looking out over the Berlin Wall at East Berlin. The world will change in a few days, he tells Lorraine, as though he knows the wall is about to crumble, or maybe just as if he’s read Atomic Blonde’s screenplay.
The knowing wink to the idea that the complications of this world boil down to an arcane, impossible-to-understand plot carried out by the secret masters of the universe keeps the film from disappearing into its own ponderousness and allows you to hang with it until the next big action moment.
But that quality also reflects a certain timeliness lurking in Atomic Blonde’s heart. When the world seems to be arrayed against you, you can chuckle bitterly or fight back. Or you can chuckle bitterly and then fight back. Atomic Blonde will sometimes make you feel like you’re being smothered by too much of everything — but then it will cut through the noise with the clarity of a great joke and a kick in the face.
Atomic Blonde is playing everywhere. Caution: It may inspire crippling neon light fixture-purchasing habits.
Every late-night comedian who aired a new episode on July 26 expressed their shock and even horror at Donald Trump announcing via Twitter that he wants to ban trans people from the military — but only one invited a trans comedian on his show to take it on with their own jokes.
Jimmy Fallon is usually late-night’s most determinedly apolitical host. But on Wednesday night, he made a point of highlighting the trans ban announcement by taking a break during his monologue to hand over the mic to Patti Harrison, a comedian and transwoman who had some things to say.
After expressing her total lack of shock that Trump would pull such a move at the expense of trans people, Harrison laid out why a military ban on trans servicemembers is so alarming.
“Now, I don’t necessarily want to serve in the military, but I want the right to serve,” she said. “It’s like, I don’t want to go to your baby shower, but I want the invite.”
“But you know,” Harrison continued with a tone so dry it practically crackles off the screen, “I don’t even think Trump knows what ‘transgender’ means. He probably thinks transgender people are those cars that turn into robots.”
Finally, Harrison addressed Trump’s cavalier statement that trans servicemembers are a “disruption.”
“I get it,” she said. “If you constantly draw attention to yourself, spend all day distracting everyone, and cost taxpayers millions of dollars, the perfect job for you isn’t the military: It’s President of the United States.”
Updated to reflect that The Tonight Show wasn’t the only late night show to invite a trans person on to comment, as The Daily Show featured trans veterans.
When HBO announced Confederate, its instantly controversial series from Game of Thrones showrunners David Benioff and D.B. Weiss that's set in a world where the South won the Civil War, it expected the announcement to stir controversy and discussion — but perhaps not quite as much as it ultimately did, according to Casey Bloys, the network’s programming chief.
Related
“Our mistake was the idea that we would be able to announce an idea that is so sensitive and requires so much thought on the part of the producers in a press release,” Bloys said in response to journalists’ questions during a session at the 2017 Television Critics Association summer press tour.
He said that, in retrospect, the network should have set up interviews with journalists, or hosted a press conference with the show’s creative personnel, in order to help provide further context for the ideas present in the show.
“[HBO CEO and Chair] Richard [Plepler] and I had the benefit of sitting with these four producers,” said Bloys of the initial pitch for Confederate from Benioff and Weiss, as well as writers Malcolm Spellman and Nichelle Tramble Spellman, who will also be deeply involved in bringing the series to TV. “I completely understand that somebody reading the press release would not have that at all.”
Bloys admitted, however, that he understood both the concerns and the controversy. When I asked him if he had any qualms about the idea behind the series — and its potential to speak to some of the country’s worst people — that were subsequently assuaged by meeting with Benioff, Weiss, and the Spellmans, he said that he was heartened that all involved acknowledged the potential pitfalls of the material.
Bloys specifically pointed to something Malcolm Spellman said in an interview with Vulture, in which Spellman called the material “weapons grade.” But, Bloys said, he also agreed with Spellman that if the needle can be threaded perfectly, drawing the line between the world of Civil War-era America and the world we live in now could prove very powerful. That task just has an incredibly high degree of difficulty.
Still, it’s very early in the life of Confederate, and Bloys doesn't yet know many specific details about the series — such as how it might present a version of slavery that exists in the modern day — because its producers are so early in their process (and two of them are about to be deeply buried in producing the eighth and final season of Game of Thrones). Until there are more concrete details available about the series, it will, necessarily, exist in a space where it is both its best and worst possible self, simultaneously — and all the perfectly handled press rollouts in the world can’t change that.
If you’re already planning on seeing Brigsby Bear — maybe because it was co-written by its star, Saturday Night Live’s Kyle Mooney, or because it was produced by both the Lonely Island and The Lego Movie’s Phil Lord and Christopher Miller — then you might as well just stop reading here.
This movie is great, and far more fun to watch if you have no idea what it’s about. So if you’re already inclined to go, then you’re making the right choice. Go forth and enjoy.
If you’re undecided, then let me put it this way: Brigsby Bear is highly original and not in the least derivative, but it still recalls a handful of other movies: Lars and the Real Girl, Be Kind Rewind, Being There, The Truman Show, and just a dusting of Room, with a side of Teddy Ruxpin.
Rating
And in addition to Mooney, the film stars Mark Hamill, Greg Kinnear, Claire Danes, Michaela Watkins, and Matt Walsh.
Still not convinced? Then read on.
In most cases it’s dangerous to draw too straight of a line from filmmakers’ upbringings to their films. But in the case of Brigsby Bear, it makes perfect sense.
The movie is the brainchild of Mooney, Kevin Costello, and Dave McCary, childhood friends who met in the seventh grade. Mooney and McCary were a comedy duo making YouTube videos when they were hired by SNL in 2013, Mooney as a cast member and McCary as a writer and director. Mooney co-wrote the Brigsby Bear screenplay with Costello, and McCary directs. (The group recently gave a delightful interview to the New Yorker.)
It seems logical that the trio of friends would wind up making a movie about friends making a movie, and both the camaraderie and the insecurities of that experience. But Brigsby Bear is a little more than that. It’s also a movie about feeling weird, whether it’s because you’re obsessed with a super-niche cultural product, or because you grew up in a bunker (figuratively, or maybe literally).
The New Yorker interview revealed that McCary and Costello grew up in insular religious households, and that all three felt like outsiders during their formative years. Given that feeling like an outsider is common territory for comedy, from The Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt to Rushmore, it’s not surprising that all of these themes are woven together in Brigsby Bear. But the resulting film is anything but conventional.
Mooney plays James, a young man who seems to live in his parents’ basement — a basement inside a bunker in the middle of a rocky desert landscape. James and his parents Ted (Mark Hamill) and April (Jane Adams) don’t leave the bunker without gas masks — and rarely leave the house at all — though James sometimes dons a mask in the middle of the night and sneaks out to look at the lonely landscape.
But mostly, James spends time in the basement obsessing over thousands of episodes of a low-budget cult sci-fi show called Brigsby Bear, in which a human-sized bear and pair of identical girls called the “Sunshine Twins” battle an evil force that’s trying to take over the universe, while also imparting life lessons about not trusting strangers and how to do complicated mathematical equations. New episodes are delivered weekly via VHS. James has a poster of one of the Sunshine Twins on the wall of his bedroom, which is decked out with Brigsby Bear paraphernalia. Brigsby is his life.
But then, one day, the FBI arrives and takes James away. It turns out that James was actually kidnapped as a baby by Ted and April from his real parents (Michaela Watkins and Matt Walsh) and reared in isolation in the bunker — and, what’s more, Brigsby Bear wasn’t a weekly TV show, at least not in the usual sense. It was Ted’s project for educating James, produced entirely by him and recorded onto VHS.
That realization understandably rocks James, but when his “new dad” takes him to the movies, he realizes that there are lots of movies and shows, and anyone can make one. Having befriended a few friends of his teenage sister (Ryan Simpkins), including budding animator Spencer (Jorge Lendeborg Jr.) — and with the help of the sympathetic police officer who rescued him (Greg Kinnear) — James sets off to make a Brigsby Bear movie that will “finish the story.”
Unlike Kimmy Schmidt and Room, Brigsby Bear treads fairly lightly on the emotional trauma of lifelong isolation. But that’s because — for whatever reason — James’s “captors” didn’t have particularly malicious intent. They just wanted a baby, and they knew it was wrong to take little James, but they did it anyhow. Brigsby Bear was a project of enormous, if twisted, devotion to his welfare.
And though James understands what happened to him, he also spent his life fixated on Brigsby: the lessons he taught, the intricate details of his mythology. He can’t extract his personality from Brigsby’s stories, and after he’s rescued, he droops until he’s able to reconnect with those stories. Everything James knows about the world comes from Brigsby, which means he evinces a childlike wonder that makes him seem a little weird, but in the manner of a creative genius.
So there are shades here, too, of Being There, Hal Ashby’s satirical 1979 comedy about a man raised entirely within the confines of one house who can only communicate in terms of the television shows he watched. The difference, though, is that James isn’t considered some kind of savant or sage by those around him. Though he’s in his 20s, with the emotional maturity of a teenager and some hurdles to a “normal” life, he can function just fine. It’s only his Brigsby fixation that sets him apart from others.
And that is the heart of Brigsby Bear, and what makes it relatable even to those of us who didn’t have a fake dad making a TV show just for us. Most everyone has sustained a passionate fascination with some cultural item so fierce our parents were worried for us: a band, a movie, a series of books.
What Brigsby Bear gets is that those fascinations are how we create our own place to belong — a place where we can be creative and secure, whether in a fandom or just a group of similarly obsessed friends. To some people, this kind of behavior might seem weird. But Brigsby Bear gets it: sometimes, we love something so much that we find our place among other people who do. And sometimes we love it so much that other people come to love it, too.
“There are other people out there, just like us,” James tells Ted one night while he’s still in the bunker. “And we’re all watching Brigsby, right? That means something.” It sure does.
Brigsby Bear opens in theaters on July 28.
MTV has announced its 2017 Video Music Award nominations, which are dominated by Kendrick Lamar’s eight nods for “HUMBLE.” But just as notable as the names up for awards this year is what those awards are named — in particular the VMAs’ newly rebranded social awareness category.
Debuting during this year’s ceremonies on August 27, the VMAs’ newly named “Best Fight Against the System” category features prominent artists like R&B singer John Legend, pop sensation Alessia Cara, and rapper Big Sean. The Hamilton Mixtape, Black-Eyed Peas’ Taboo, and rapper Logic round out the list, in a year when both the system and those who challenge it are as formidable as ever.
But while the name and nominees may be new in 2017, the category itself is less so.
Previously titled “Best Video With a Social Message,” the category was first introduced at the 2011 VMAs and kept its original name through 2015, before disappearing altogether from the 2016 nomination list. That absence was brief, however. The category has since been revived and rebranded for 2017 in what MTV sees as “a natural progression of that previous iteration.”
“The addition of the ‘Best Fight Against the System’ category was added to the 2017 MTV VMAs to continue reflecting the audience’s passion and activism around social justice issues such as environmental justice, immigration, LGBTQ equality, and racial justice,” an MTV spokesperson told me.
The renaming of the category is in line with other recent changes made to the network’s two high-profile US awards events. The category shares its name with one introduced during the 2017 MTV Movie and TV Awards earlier this year, when the awards’ long-running “Best Fight” category was also rebranded as “Best Fight Against the System.” (Hidden Figures took home that honor, which was presented by California Rep. Maxine Waters.)
The VMAs have also dropped gender-specific categories this year, doing away with the Best Male Artist and Best Female Artist categories in favor of the more egalitarian Artist of the Year category, in which Ariana Grande and Lorde are nominated alongside Lamar, Bruno Mars, Ed Sheeran, and the Weeknd.
In past years, the Best Video with a Social Message nominations have included videos from Top 40 goliaths like Lady Gaga, Katy Perry, Beyoncé, Lil Wayne, Taylor Swift, Macklemore, and Demi Lovato. Social activist rockers Rise Against and pansexual rapper Angel Haze have also been among the list of 28 artists who received recognition for their music videos’ social messages. Many of those emotionally driven messages — from Katy Perry’s “Firework” and Lady Gaga’s “Born This Way” to Macklemore’s “Same Love” and Avicii’s “Hey Brother” — covered broad, feel-good concepts that encouraged empowerment and acceptance.
But while the idea behind the Best Fight Against the System category may be the same as those earlier awards, the 2017 nominees tend to be more definitive in their messaging, speaking to either a specific social movement (#NoDAPL and Black Lives Matter) or a broader, timely social justice issue.
R&B chart topper John Legend’s video for “Surefire” is a visual ballad about a young Muslim woman and her Latino boyfriend struggling to preserve their relationship despite cultural barriers.
Rapper Big Sean — who won 2015’s Social Message award for his track “One Man Can Change the World” — was nominated this year for the video for “Light,” off his 2017 album I Decided, which focuses on the promise of America’s black youth in spite of the daily discrimination and discouragement they face.
The message of Logic’s “Black Spiderman,” whose music video is an inspiring and colorful pastel musical, is right in its title. The nearly six-minute visual experience speaks to the continuous debate over certain cultural figures — Jesus, Santa Claus, and Spiderman — and whether they are or should remain white.
Taboo — who is of Mexican and Native American ancestry — honors American Indian communities and Standing Rock activists in his video for “Stand Up / Stand N Rock #NoDAPL.” The video features footage from the Standing Rock site as well as Native activists, Native musicians, and actress Shailene Woodley.
Alessia Cara’s pop hit “Scars to Your Beautiful” is perhaps the most well-known of this year’s crop — it’s also nominated for VMA Video of the Year — but its mainstream popularity should take away nothing from its role as an anthem for body positivity and female empowerment.
The most unsurprising nomination, however, goes to what can be characterized as both an immigrant and American anthem. In a political climate that’s challenging the very notions of what it means to be American, there’s perhaps no better fit for this particular category than The Hamilton Mixtape’s “Immigrants (We Get the Job Done).”
The 2017 MTV Video Music Awards are held August 27. You can see the full list of nominees and their videos here.
On Hulu’s Casual, actress Michaela Watkins plays Valerie, a therapist in Los Angeles juggling her daughter, career, and personal life following a divorce. It’s the type of show that is easy to lob criticism at for its portrayal of profoundly unhappy yet successful people in one of America’s most liberal cities. And yet, the show has been met with critical acclaim and gained a devoted following thanks to its humor, honesty, and depth.
In season three, which concludes on August 1, the show makes more of an effort to address some of the issues that its viewers grapple with, including the 2016 election and the Donald Trump presidency. On the latest episode of Vox critic at large Todd VanDerWerff’s podcast, I Think You’re Interesting, Watkins tells VanDerWerff why Casual treats its characters’ comparatively privileged problems with respect, and how to make a small show set in LA seem like part of the real world.
“I think if you try to have a show that’s set in 2017 in Los Angeles and you don’t talk about the world at large you’re being so incredibly disingenuous that I feel like you lose the authenticity and the realness and the honesty of the show,” Watkins says. “Because I don’t have a single conversation with a single person that doesn’t eventually turn to world events.”
Unsurprisingly, the show’s characters have progressive views (Valerie puts her daughter on birth control when she’s 12), but Watkins stresses the difference between a show that is spouting ideology and one that is capturing reality in a specific part of the country.
“I’m sure there’s been some criticism that we’re espousing liberal propaganda because we have a character who’s working for a nonprofit in a climate awareness organization that is working to clean up the environment locally in Los Angeles. That’s not propaganda, that is an actual job that people have and go do,” Watkins explains. “It’s saying, ‘Hey, there are these oil fields, people are getting sick around them, it’s an actual issue, there are lots of activists on the grounds who are doing that.’ Just because it’s in a show doesn’t mean that it’s pushing an agenda.”
VanDerWerff asks Watkins if she feels that the show’s characters are “aware of the dichotomy between these characters’ comfort and their problems,” and if they are aware that others out there are suffering far worse.
“The people who seem to get picked on the most in television for being coastal elites are people who are at all upset about their own personal lives,” Watkins says. “For some reason with Casual, because it’s got, I don’t know, people who seem genuinely depressed and unhappy, then you’re like, ‘Fuck you guys, there are other people who are suffering way more than you.’ I don’t have anything conclusive to say about it, it’s just interesting to me that when somebody’s unhappy there’s somebody who is going to be like, ‘Screw you, there’s somebody who’s more unhappy than you.’”
Watkins recalls an especially vapid sitcom script she read some years ago where she was astounded by how shallow the characters’ problems were.
“I remember I got a script five years ago or something and it was some TV sitcom and I threw the script across the room because I was like, ‘Come on.’ The line was something like, ‘I’m going on a date; I’m going for Italian. Should I wear my hair up or down for linguini?’” Watkins says. “In my mind I was like, ‘We’re in the middle of two wars right now, fuck you! Fuck your ponytail, fuck your linguini!”
While striking a balance between humor and dramatic heft, Watkins looks to the most powerful person in the world as an example of how mental health issues have the power to impact even those who seemingly have it all.
“Were the world tuned right to the fork we would all be so freaking grateful that we have all the things we have it wouldn’t even occur to us to be unhappy. But there is something called depression — I mean, look at Donald Trump, I don’t know a more unhappy, empty, sad sort of man.”
At the same time, Watkins retains the perspective that while Casual seeks to tackle common issues of depression and anxiety, its characters can still be caught up in trivial matters.
“This show definitely I’m sure gets slotted into the bunch-of-rich-white-people-complaining [genre] — I think this show is so much more than that. It feels like an easy assessment,” she says to VanDerWerff, who responds that for season four the show could add a character who follows the leads around with a sign that says “Don’t you know people are suffering?”
“And they’d be like, ‘This guy is following me. Should I ask him out?’” Watkins responds.
Listen to the full episode for more from Michaela Watkins on how her audition process has changed over her career, and how her perception of Valerie has been altered since season one.
To hear more interviews with fascinating people from the world of arts and culture — from powerful showrunners to web series creators to documentary filmmakers — check out the I Think You’re Interesting archives.
Christopher Nolan’s Dunkirk is a nerve-wracking film. Three separate storylines tell the famed World War II tale — where 330,000 Allied forces, surrounded by the enemy, were evacuated from the Northern beaches of France — in a way that feels tense and visually stunning.
Built around a score by composer Hans Zimmer, Dunkirk hardly ever slows down from start to finish. And a lot of that has to do with how Zimmer uses an auditory illusion caused by Shepard tones.
Named after cognitive scientist Roger Shepard, the sound consists of several tones  separated by an octave layered on top of each other. As the lowest bass tone starts to fade in, the higher treble tone fades out. When the bass completely fades in and the treble completely fades out, the sequence loops back again. Because you can always hear at least two tones rising in pitch at the same time, your brain gets tricked into thinking that the sound is constantly ascending in pitch.
It’s a creepy, anxiety-inducing sound. There’s a clever simulator tool you can use to explore how this works.
In an interview with Business Insider, Nolan revealed that the entire soundtrack was built around the sound effect to create a feeling of ever-increasing intensity that would unite the three storylines. Zimmer — who has scored most of Nolan’s films since The Dark Knight — wasn’t the first to build a soundtrack around the illusion; David Julyan did a similar treatment for Nolan on The Prestige score.
But in Dunkirk, the soundtrack stands on its own as a defining part of the film. It's an auditory masterpiece.
Watch the video above to learn more about why the Shepard tone is crucial to the experience of Christopher Nolan’s Dunkirk.
Star Trek: Discovery, which is finally set to debut this September, has a lot riding on it. As the latest edition of a 50-year-old and endlessly beloved science fiction franchise, the highly anticipated project marks CBS’s first return to the legendary cultural touchstone in more than 15 years.
The last Star Trek series to hit the airwaves, 2001’s Star Trek: Enterprise, was lackluster. But so far, Discovery has shown every sign of being a lovingly crafted and thoughtful prequel, in spite of numerous production delays.
Related
The show is executive-produced by Bryan Fuller, who also served as its original showrunner. Though Fuller ultimately stepped down from his showrunning duties to focus more on his recent Starz series American Gods, he contributed numerous narrative and production elements to Discovery, including writing its opening episode.
Fuller’s departure may be what spurred the series’ two major scheduling delays. Discovery was first announced way back in November 2015, and was originally supposed to lift off in January; then it was delayed until May, and then it was delayed again until September. But the series’ new showrunners, Aaron Harberts and Gretchen J. Berg (Roswell), claim their crew’s care for the show’s world building and painstaking visual detail is primarily responsible.
Will their efforts pay off? We’ll find out when Discovery premieres on Sunday, September 24. Until then, here’s everything we know about the series so far.
Discovery will ultimately air exclusively on CBS’s streaming service, CBS All Access. But the hour-long series premiere will also air on CBS proper, after the season 50 premiere of 60 Minutes.
The show’s 15-episode first season will be split into two parts, with the first eight episodes concluding with a midseason finale on Sunday, November 5. The remaining seven episodes will air beginning in January 2018.
CBS All Access will also air a companion aftershow to Discovery called Talking Trek.
Star Trek: Discovery is set 10 years before the original Star Trek series, which makes it the latter of the franchise’s two prequel series. (The other prequel, Star Trek: Enterprise, is set significantly earlier, a century before the original 1966 Star Trek series.)
The series’ first trailer, released in May, introduced our protagonist, Michael Burnham (more on her below). But it also revealed a young Spock and his father Sarek, along with more Vulcans, Romulans, and a group of battle-ready Klingons. It was the conflict with the Klingons that drew the most attention — and for good reason.
Prior to the trailer’s release, Fuller had hinted that Discovery could revolve around a commonly discussed event in Star Trek history. "There's an incident, an event, in the history of Starfleet that has been talked about [in previous Star Trek series] but never fully explored,” he teased at the Television Critics Association summer press tour in August 2016.
The show’s latest trailer, unveiled at Comic-Con in July, builds on this idea, by previewing Discovery’s hero’s journey, the Klingon empire, and an unfolding war:
Just like Discovery’s first trailer, it hints at tensions between the Klingons and the Federation as they each adjust to what seems to be a period of diplomatic upheaval amid the efforts of the Klingon Empire to regain its intergalactic dominance.
It also reintroduces us to Burnham (The Walking Dead’s Sonequa Martin-Green) and gives us a first look at the captain of Discovery’s titular starship, Gabriel Lorca (Jason Isaacs).
“You helped start a war,” Lorca intriguingly tells Burnham near the end of the trailer. “Don’t you want to help me finish it?”
Fans seem to agree that the two trailers indicate a focus on the early conflict between the Klingons and the Federation that preceded their long, tense detente throughout the first Star Trek series. Multiple Instagram posts promoting Discovery in Klingon also lend themselves to this interpretation. Translated from Klingon, the full dispatch reads, “Light the fire,” which would seem to be a Klingon motto or mission statement.
It’s worth noting that the Discovery series will have no connection or continuity with the controversial recent fan film Prelude to Axenar, which is set during the same approximate time period. Nor will it have any connection to the rebooted series of Star Trek films that debuted in 2009 (officially dubbed the “Kelvin Timeline”), as Discovery and the rebooted films essentially exist in different universes.
Discovery, like all the other Star Trek TV series and all the Star Trek films made prior to the 2009 reboot, is set in the “Prime Universe.”
When Discovery’s first official promotional photo was released in May, it featured Michelle Yeoh as Captain Georgiou, the commander of the USS Shenzhou, standing alongside her prodigy, the aforementioned Michael Burnham.
The series’ first trailer showed us Captain Georgiou and Burnham discussing Burnham’s possible promotion to first officer of the Discovery, setting her up to be our guide and primary witness to the intergalactic political turmoil that defines the world in which Discovery takes place.
And a new poster released in conjunction with Comic-Con makes it even clearer that the show will focus on Burnham, rather than Captain Lorca. Discovery will be the first series in the Star Trek franchise to have a main character who’s not (yet) the leader of their respective crew. But as the series progresses, it’s safe to assume that Burnham will learn the qualities of leadership that she’ll need to attain that role.
Other known details about Burnham include the recently announced fact that she’s the adopted sister of Spock, and was raised by Spock’s parents, Sarek and Amanda.
This contextualizes a number of points Martin-Green discussed with Entertainment Weekly in an early interview about Discovery following the release of the series’ first trailer in May. At the time, the magazine revealed that while Burnham is human and not Vulcan, she “deliberately” has a man’s name, is closely connected to Vulcan culture and society, and is “the first human to attend the Vulcan Learning Center as a child and then the Vulcan Science Academy as a young woman.”
Further, Discovery’s two trailers both hint at Burnham’s importance to the brokering of peace between various alien races that have clashed in earlier Star Trek series. In the first trailer specifically, Sarek tells Burnham, “Great unifiers are few and far between.” He seems to think Burnham could be such a unifier — and her interspecies heritage is obviously a significant part of that.
The full cast of Discovery includes, naturally, a whole lot of Klingons. But there are several surprises on board the starship, starting with the captain’s demoted importance. Discovery’s captain may not be the show’s main character — he wasn’t even introduced in the first trailer  — but given his role, he’s still crucial to the series.
Discovery will also boast the first openly gay character in franchise history (discounting the somewhat controversial outing of Lt. Sulu in the 2016 reboot film Star Trek: Beyond). Anthony Rapp, best known to audiences as Mark from the original Broadway cast (and subsequent film adaptation) of the musical Rent, will play a science officer on the Discovery, the fungus expert Lt. Stamets.
Rapp, who is openly gay himself, stated in a March interview with Metro Weekly that he was “honored” to play the part and “to be a part of a piece of work that’s part of the cultural pantheon.” Then, at Comic-Con, Rapp broke the news that Stamets will not only be the first openly gay member of Starfleet, but the first to have a boyfriend: a medical officer named Dr. Hugh Culber, played by  Wilson Cruz (He’s Just Not That Into You).
Finally, there will be a brand new alien on board. Veteran character actor Doug Jones will play the Discovery’s alien science officer, Lieutenant Saru (pronounced “suh-roo.”) Jones has described his character as “a new breed of alien that you’ve never seen on the series before, or in any of the movies.”
Among the returning characters from previous Star Trek series will be the aforementioned Vulcan leader Sarek, now played by James Frain, and the classic Trek character Harry Mudd, now played by The Office’s Rainn Wilson. (Wilson has described the script for his debut episode as “really good.”)
The rest of the full announced cast is quite extensive — here’s a breakdown of their various roles aboard their various vessels:
Officers of the Discovery:
Shazad Latif (Penny Dreadful) will play Lt. Tyler, a Federation Starfleet officer.
Rekha Sharma (The 100) will play Discovery security officer Commander Landry.
Mary Wiseman (Longmire) will play Cadet Tilly, a final-year Starfleet Academy trainee assigned to the ship.
Terry Serpico (Army Wives) will play a Starfleet officer named Adm. Anderson.
Officers of the Shenzhou, which is prominent in the first episode, and may be a recurring presence over the series:
Maulik Pancholy (30 Rock) will play Dr. Nambue, the Shenzhou’s chief medical officer.
Sam Vartholomeos will play Ensign Connor, a junior officer in Starfleet Academy.
Klingons:
Chris Obi (American Gods) will play a unity-seeking Klingon leader named T'Kuvma.
Kenneth Mitchell (Jericho) will play commanding Klingon officer Kol.
Clare McConnell will play a Klingon politician named Dennas.
Mary Chieffo will play a Klingon named L’Rell.
Damon Runyan (Supernatural) will play a Klingon leader named Ujili.
After Fuller left his position as Discovery’s showrunner in October of 2016, the series suffered several setbacks and delays. And as new showrunners Harberts and Berg explained to EW, once they came on, they had to wait for Martin-Green to make her season finale exit on The Walking Dead so that she could join the show.
But another aspect of the delays, according to Harberts and Berg, was the sheer care and detail that went into crafting Discovery’s sets, props, and costumes to make the world of Star Trek feel real and lived in.
Harberts cited the “artistry and custom craftsmanship that go into every prop, every costume, every set,” while Berg praised the show’s visual detail. “I’m so proud of what’s on screen, it’s so beautiful and it’s taking world-building to a whole new level,” she said.
At San Diego Comic-Con in 2016, fans got to see some of that detail for themselves. A special preview of the Discovery shown at the convention featured the ship in one of Star Trek’s famous spaceship reveal/flyover sequences:
And at the 2017 convention, attendees were invited to view a special Discovery exhibit featuring many props and costumes pulled straight from the show’s set, including captain’s uniforms and the actual captain’s chair from the ship’s bridge.
Looking good, Starfleet. #StarTrekDiscovery #sdcc pic.twitter.com/EtfDxpQwT0
What about phasers and communicators? The #StarTrekDiscovery exhibit at #sdcc also has those. pic.twitter.com/gfdLIItsSM
The Captain's chair from #StarTrekDiscovery. #sdcc pic.twitter.com/TbtDnZCqWm
All in all, fans seem cautiously hopeful about the series and its look, though some have criticized its changes to the original visual designs of characters and starships. On the one hand, this is par for the course with such a long-running, beloved franchise. But on the other, with Discovery being the first Star Trek TV series to debut in more than 15 years, the franchise’s future on television largely hinges on its success. Thus, it seems that not alienating an obsessively critical fan base and attempting to overdeliver on the final product is worth a delay or two. At any rate, come September, we’ll get to judge the results for ourselves.
Like most of the TV-viewing public, I enjoy a good Carpool Karaoke segment. It’s always fun to watch wildly famous superstars enthusiastically chair-dance to their own hits, like dorks. One of the most endearing things about most celebrities is how hard they work and how deeply they commit to their jobs, and when they transfer that workaholic commitment to something as ridiculous as singing along to their own songs on a road trip, it’s usually a good time.
But the longer Carpool Karaoke sticks around, the more gimmicky it gets. More and more, James Corden and The Late Late Show have started to abandon the original appeal of the segment — the spontaneous sing-along vibe that makes it fun — in favor of scripted out-of-the-car interludes that make it clear how artificial the whole scenario is.
As a case in point, Tuesday night’s Usher edition featured a slew of topical/pop culture-referencing segments in between songs. First, Corden and Usher got out of the car so that Usher could teach Corden how to walk in the club, in what appeared to be a reference to the time in 2010 when Usher, then Justin Bieber’s mentor, hired Bieber a swagger coach to teach him how to “do swaggerific things.”
Second, they pulled over to clean Usher’s Hollywood Walk of Fame star, in an apparent nod to the woman who recently tweeted pictures of herself cleaning Donald Trump’s star and single-handedly launched the “nothing but respect for MY president” meme. “Please be respectful of the star, guys,” Corden instructed the watching crowd. “Walk around the star of Usher.”
As late-night interview segments go, this is all fun-enough stuff, by which I mean it was not actively unpleasant. There are certainly many worse things Corden and Usher could have referenced (Usher is currently being sued by a woman who claims he exposed her to herpes, which would not have made for a breezy late night television sketch).
But as a Carpool Karaoke segment, it took time away from the spontaneous fun of the whole idea, which is to watch celebrities nerd out over music. There's a reason that the most iconic moment in all of Carpool Karaoke history is Adele flawlessly rapping Nicki Minaj’s verse of “Monster”: You get to see torch songstress Adele channel all of her emotiveness into declaring that she is a motherfucking monster, and it’s both utterly unexpected and deeply satisfying — you never would have guessed that Adele knows all the words to that verse, but now that you do, doesn’t it feel right?
Carpool Karaoke has been chasing that high ever since, but every time it adds a new scripted segment, it ends up a little further away.
Neil Postman’s Amusing Ourselves to Death was written in 1985, but it reads like prophecy today. On the first page, just a few paragraphs in, is the following passage:
What George Orwell feared were those who would ban books. What Aldous Huxley feared was that there would be no reason to ban a book, for there would be no one who wanted to read one. Orwell feared those who would deprive us of information. Huxley feared those who would give us so much that we would be reduced to passivity and egoism. Orwell feared that the truth would be concealed from us. Huxley feared the truth would be drowned in a sea of irrelevance. Orwell feared we would become a captive culture. Huxley feared we would become a trivial culture ... As Huxley remarked in Brave New World Revisited, the civil libertarians and rationalists who are ever on the alert to oppose tyranny “failed to take into account man’s almost infinite appetite for distraction.”
This 30-year-old book, written by a relatively unknown media critic who died in 2003, captures our cultural and political moment with terrifying precision, and helps explain how we ended up with a reality TV charlatan as president.
“We’re a culture whose information, ideas and epistemology,” Postman wrote, “are now given form by TV, not by the printed word.” All of reality is a show, in other words, and has to be seen and experienced as such. This is especially true of politics, which, in the age of TV, is almost entirely about optics and entertainment.
The questions Postman raises in Amusing Ourselves to Death are jarring. The Atlantic’s Megan Garber addresses some of them in a superb essay about the social and political costs we’ve paid for prizing entertainment above everything else. Our entire culture, she notes, is built on cosmetics and performance, as the internal logic of television demands.
Garber’s piece sums up Postman’s thesis quite well, but I wanted to dive a little deeper into the media theory behind it. How, exactly, has television transformed American life, and how has the shift from a print-based culture to an image-based culture changed the nature of our minds?
I reached out to Lance Strate, a professor of communications at Fordham University and perhaps the leading media ecologist in the country.
The author of Amazing Ourselves to Death: Neil Postman’s Brave New World, Strate has written extensively about Postman’s legacy, and about the cultural impact of television. He argues that our desire for entertainment has become “positively toxic” and in this new world defined by TV, the power of the image has overwhelmed our capacity to think and reason carefully.
In this interview, I ask Strate what Postman meant when he wrote that our culture had “descended into a vast triviality.” I also ask him if TV has trivialized our politics and made us all dumber as a result.
What did Postman mean by the phrase “amusing ourselves to death”?
He meant that we’re having a very good time, surrounded in every moment by distractions and entertainment, and that while that could normally be considered a good thing, something we’d like to have in our lives, we were starting to overdose on it. We had reached the point where the impulse for entertainment had become positively toxic.
What, exactly, was Postman’s argument? Why was the shift from a text-based culture to an image-based culture so consequential?
His argument rested on two main issues. One is image culture. Television, being image-based, is not conducive to rationality or really any kind of logical discourse. It's good for evoking emotional responses but not for deep thought and reflection.
One of the reasons people thought that digital media and computers were different was that so much of it was actually text-based. But what we see is that as the technology has evolved and progressed more and more, we have the graphical user interface, we have the use of icons, emojis, and of course a tremendous amount of video that now dominates the web. So all of that really indicates that contemporary   technologies have amplified the image orientation that was present with television.
The other part of it was the immediacy. All forms of electronic communication move very quickly. We have instantaneous communication which gives us a kind of telegraphic discourse. And Twitter is just the latest form of this telegraphic discourse.
To the extent that we use language, we use it in this very abbreviated way, and that again is not conducive to logical or extended discourse. It's very good for slogans and jokes, and for trivial matters. But it feeds this tendency to turn things over quickly. We don’t stay on a subject for very long. Like, say, the news cycle itself, we just shift mindlessly from one story or subject to another.
Ultimately, we’ve overwhelmed with a flood of information and imagery. There is no time for reflection, for careful thought, for serious study.
Like Marshall McLuhan, Postman is convinced that the surest way to see to the core of a culture is to look at its tools of conversation. Why is this the defining feature of a culture?
What is a culture except for its conversation or its use of language? I mean, without that we're kind of on the level of primates, really. What sets us apart from any other species is our use of language and symbols. And what is it that sets us apart from the kind of tribal cultures that were the only form of culture for something on the order of 100,000 years or more? As compared to the civilizations that only started to pop up somewhere between 10,000 and 6,000 years ago.
And that's writing. That's what we see in Mesopotamia, in Egypt, later in India and China, and of course in Greece and ancient Israel. You know we see the writing systems pop up that make all of those extraordinary cultures that possible, that's the greatest revolution in human history, and as we progress forward what is it that put an end to the medieval world and brought us into the modern world? And, along the same lines, what is it that made the West preeminent because it wasn't preeminent in the middle ages? And that was the printing press.
But the age of the printing press is over now. This is the point that Postman drives home. Our communication is now electronic and image-based, and that has had profound consequences.
That’s right. This was Marshall McLuhan’s point as well. We’ve had what he called an alphabetic civilization for more than 2 millennia. Well over 2 millennia. And we've come   to the end of that road. It's over. And it was over in his time, and he kind of sensed that. And that is the electronic media. And it's really with television that it fully came into its own as a dominant medium.
And then digital media, the internet and all of that, that's really further development, further progression. But all of the characteristics we associate with digital media were pretty much there in the 19th century with the telegraph and the telephone.
I’m trying to connect all of this to politics. The world that TV has built is precisely the world in which someone like Donald Trump can become president. When Postman writes, “We may have reached the point where cosmetics has replaced ideology as the field of expertise over which a politician must have competent control,” it’s hard not to see how depressingly accurate he was. Is there any doubt politics is now about the artifice of display and not the content of ideas?
Well, you can go back to Reagan, who was elected a few years before Postman wrote this book, and the shocking event of an actor being elected president. In that case, you can see that there was, like, one foot in the old world and one in the new world. Reagan at least had some prior political experience, but his acting experience is what got him elected.
Postman was trying to make sense of the fact that if you look at what was going on at that time, the early ’80s, all the opinion polls were showing that Reagan had enormous popular appeal. And yet when people were asked about the issues, their views on the issues, they were diametrically opposed to them. And yet they voted for him anyway.
And this is the major disconnect between political issues and ideology. And really even if you look at the word ideology, you'll see that it's a system of ideas, which is what party platforms argue about. That made a lot of sense when print was the dominant medium, but it means nothing today.
Today, it’s all about the power of the image, of entertainment, of spectacle.
Let’s talk about the medium of TV and why it matters so much. For Postman, there was a clear relationship between a medium and the level of ideas it can sustain or communicate. TV, by virtue of what it is, seems to reduce everything to entertainment.
Well, I think we can qualify that. I don't think you can say it can only be a form of entertainment. But in his time he wrote about PBS News Hour, which, compared to network news, was more in depth, spent more time on a story. And he actually said, the words were, "Their audience is minuscule."
So let's fast forward to today. And you can have CSPAN. And you can actually watch Congress at work. But how many people are watching?
Practically no one.
I think the word minuscule applies even more so in that instance. And why? If you think about television news, and really at the time that Postman wrote this, people were saying, "Well, we only have half an hour, and that's with commercials, to do the news. If we had more time we could go in-depth."
But now we've got three major cable news networks, and where's the depth? It's not there. Why? Because it doesn't look good on television. It doesn’t play well, it’s not entertaining. Television exists to show us compelling images in a dramatic format — that’s it. And this is what we all come to expect the more we watch it.
CNN has all this time on their hands. What do they do? They show us the music of the   ’60s. And Anthony Bourdain eating in exotic places. TLC used to be the learning channel and now it’s the Honey Boo Boo channel. You see a similar trajectory with almost every network — it’s always from more to less depth.
This is what we mean when we talk about the bias of the medium. And we mean bias not in the sense of prejudice, but bias as in tendency. The tendency for things to roll down a hill rather than up a hill. And downhill on TV is toward exciting images, dramatic performance, compelling personalities, and triviality.
Has TV made us dumb? Has it permanently trivialized our politics?
Well, it short-circuits our ability to think clearly and in depth. It's a constant stream of distractions that interfere with any kind of rational response to the world. I've been thinking about this because Daniel Boorstin wrote a wonderful book called The Image that Amusing Ourselves to Death draws on along with Marshall McLuhan. And I've been thinking about this regarding Trump because Boorstin coined the term “pseudo-events."
He coined this term to describe how Joseph McCarthy was incredibly skillful at manipulating the press. For example, how he would call a press conference in the morning to announce that he would hold a press conference in the afternoon with new revelations about communists and government. And then whether he actually did call the press conference in the afternoon or not didn't matter. The aim was to dominate the newspapers, which, at that time, came out in multiple editions a day.
This was an early example of how the image-based media transformed our politics, and in almost universally unproductive ways.
One of the more interesting aspects of the book is about how TV has altered our epistemology, how we know things. We respond to images, not words, and that leaves us more open to manipulation.
Epistemology is how we know the world, how we learn about aspects of our environment. In large part, what we take in from our environment is mediated. I’ve never been Russia. I’ve never met Putin. I have to rely on information I get through the media that is available to me. But their biases also color the way I understand the world.
In an earlier age, someone like Putin would just be a name I read. Now there's a face and a voice and I make a judgment based on how that person looks and sounds. And this is true of nearly everything and everyone these days: We make judgments based on imagery, not the printed word.
I think this means we’re much more emotionally connected to the rest of the world. That can be good in times, but it also means that we’re much more open to being manipulated.
Can we draw a straight line between TV and post-factuality? Surely it’s no accident that facts have become less important as more and more of reality gets reduced to a TV show.
Facts are the magic matter of rational discourse. A fact is a statement, it's language. People use the word in different ways, but it really takes a statement to make a fact. And in technical terms, a fact is something that you can check out.
So if I tell you it's raining outside right now, then it's something that you can check out and determine whether it's true or false. And technically a statement of fact can be false. But the point is that you can see that it's false, you can check it out.
Reagan was famous for false facts. Many of them turned out to be things he saw in movies. But they were statements that could be checked out. Where we've gone beyond that is the fact that it doesn't seem to matter anymore when people point out that statements are false, or that whole thing of alternate facts and post-truth. It's like true and false really doesn't matter. And it's sort of interesting how they use the word “believe” now.
I hear people say, "Well, Trump believes this to be true." That belief is the source of truth does signal a reversal of a literate, typographic epistemology in which you make a clearly defined statement that we can go and test in the world, and that's the basis of science, as opposed to an older epistemology, like the oral tradition, where we believe to be true what we sing in our songs, what we've passed on from generations.
But now belief is about feeling, emotion — it’s about the person. It's no longer whether you believe that the world is round or flat, which is a belief that can be checked out. It's now: Do you believe in Trump? Or, do you believe in Hillary Clinton? Or, do you believe in whoever. But that's a different kind of belief. It's all about the person, and how we feel about the person is shaped by TV.
How do we course-correct? Because there is no going back. For better or worse, the written word will always be secondary. So is it a matter of media literacy or what?
Well, I think Postman held out great hope for education as a way of addressing these problems. Which also means really emphasizing the enlightenment tradition of rational   discourse and just plain literacy and not giving in to the latest and trying to make a school compete with television or the internet. So that is certainly part of the solution.
I think we have to talk and to read. It may well be that the only way we ever get things done is locally, and through personal connections and trying to work that way. I just don't see any top down solution to this. But I think that we can certainly try to improve things. If everyone did that or if enough people did that on a personal level, that's one way that this could be countered.
Since the news broke last week that singer R. Kelly is allegedly holding young women against their will in an abusive sex cult, recriminations against Kelly have piled up thick and fast. The allegations that Kelly has a habit of abusing young women and girls have been public knowledge for decades, so why, many people have demanded, is he still able to sell music and record and perform and live the life of a beloved superstar? But answering the question thoroughly requires delving into the manifold ways race, gender, class, and celebrity are playing out in the R. Kelly story, which is a Herculean task for anyone.
It’s the task culture critic Jamilah Lemieux set for herself with her Colorlines article “Why Are Some of Us Still Defending R. Kelly?” Lemieux, a former Ebony editor and contributor to publications like the Washington Post, the New York Times, and the Guardian, has been arguing against Kelly for more than 15 years.
For Lemieux, it’s personal. She and Kelly share a hometown of Chicago, where Kelly was first accused of statutory rape, and where the news first broke, in 2002, that a video tape existed of Kelly engaging in sex acts with and urinating on a girl who was allegedly 14 years old. And as Lemieux has noted, Kelly has consistently targeted young black girls and women, in a pattern that fundamentally affects the discourse surrounding the latest allegations against him.
Related
Lemieux argues that black women and girls have been forced to bear the burden of white supremacy by protecting the black men who hurt them. “Is ‘the system’ so corrupt, so terrible, so biased against Our Men that we won't allow them to be punished for consuming the flesh of young girls?” she writes. “Are the odds so stacked against Our Men that we can’t allow one who made it out of the ghetto to lose it all for defiling our daughters?”
I spoke with Lemieux over the phone about why R. Kelly has been able to survive so many scandals, and how to respond when an artist who makes art that you like is accused of doing monstrous things.
Our conversation has been lightly edited for length and clarity.
R. Kelly’s tendency to go after teenagers and very young women has been public knowledge for years and years. Why do you think it’s been so often ignored?
Honestly, I think the R. Kelly situation sits perfectly at the intersection of class, insane privilege, sexism, and specifically sexism toward black women and girls. If the majority of his alleged victims had been young white women, it’s just hard for me to believe he would have been able to go on so long virtually unchecked.
And why is that?
It’s hard to believe that there would not have been a more concerted effort by members of the law enforcement and the judicial system in the state of Illinois [where Kelly was sued by multiple women alleging that he initiated sexual relationships with them when they were minors], or in the state of Florida, where R. Kelly was tried on charges related to some of these allegations, and members of the music industry, and fans. I don’t see people standing for the sheer number of accusations against this person had these been young white girls.
Now, had this been a white male artist of R. Kelly’s level of celebrity and white female alleged victims, I can’t definitively say that he would not have escaped any sort of punishment for what he’s doing, but I don’t believe that anyone would have allowed R. Kelly, a black man, to allegedly abuse white girls in that way.
Related
I hate to even make the comparison, because an abused girl is an abused girl and nobody deserves that sort of treatment. I think all girls should have the relative level of protection that is often — not always, but often — extended to white girls, specifically class-mobile ones.
But everything about this story reminds me of how much it takes for a black girl to be believed or to be taken seriously. I’m not only pointing the finger at law enforcement or the music industry or the media here. There are fans, many of them black women. There are supporters, even in our shared hometown of Chicago, who have willfully ignored the things we have said and heard and known about this man for years, because he’s popular, because he makes music that people like.
Related
What do you think is a good way of addressing this dilemma that we see with R. Kelly and with other very powerful men who are accused of hurting women, where the fan base will say, “Yeah, he probably did that, but I really like the art he makes”? How do you respond to that?
I think that the relationship of a consumer or a fan to art is a personal one, and it’s really hard to, for lack of a better word, police something like that, to tell people how and when or why they should consume art.
The thing is, this person is still alive. This person is allegedly still harming girls. This person has been flippant and dismissive when met with these accusations. This person seems at the very least like he could be a possible danger to young girls and women in his company.
And again, there’s also the video. The video at the heart of the 2008 trial is something that was seen by a whole lot of people. If you go looking for it on the internet, it’s still there. So with some of the other allegations that have been leveled against powerful or influential or well-known men, there’s this absence of that sort of evidence. People have decided to take Kelly’s acquittal in that 2008 case as a sign that he’s just not guilty, but it has everything to do with the fact that the young lady who was in that video would not participate [in testifying against him].
Absent a victim, the state of Illinois could not prove a crime. But if you’ve seen even a screenshot of that video, there’s no question about the youth of that girl.
Related
This is a person who makes music that is incredibly sexual in nature. This is someone who has written lyrics that play with the idea of age and consent, right? “Age Ain’t Nothing But a Number” for Aaliyah, and “Show me some ID” for “Bump N’ Grind.”
I am not somebody who is comfortable listening to somebody like that singing about sex. I would not want to send the message to him or to anyone else that I am complicit in things that it seems that he has done to young girls and women. Obviously other people feel differently.
It’s hard for me to tell someone that they have to divorce themselves from memories they may have created to that music, or the enjoyment they get from it. But I think it’s irresponsible to continue to make space for this person to continue to create, to continue to perform.
If there’s something that he recorded in 1992 or 2000 or 2005 before you knew these things about him, and that’s something that you still want to engage with, I suppose I can understand that a bit more, but this isn’t the sort of thing that makes you sit down? This isn’t a reason to lose a record deal or a sports sponsorship or the opportunity to collaborate with others in your field? I just find that to be inherently wrong.
Do you think anything will change after this latest round of accusations?
I hope so, but I’ve hoped that in the past. There have been some reports that his ticket sales are up, and that perhaps this spate of attention has increased that. I don’t know if people are going in hopes of seeing some sort of — I don’t know what they’re looking to see, if they’re looking for evidence, if they forgot R. Kelly existed and now that he’s making headlines again they want to go and see him. I’m saddened by that, but I hope we’re able to put some pressure on certain stakeholders to loosen their hold on him or their need to support him.
I think the most likely positive outcome from all of this is that young women will be reminded, or perhaps even taught for the first time, that these sorts of relationships are not acceptable, and they’re not okay, and they’re also not their fault. And we can have a conversation about that part of rape, which is something that a lot of people don’t seem to think actually exists at that point, where you can offer a verbal consent and you’re thus a consenting adult [and can still be raped], which is true.
I’m hoping that artists are turned off and decide they don’t want to be associated with somebody like this, and that the systems of deception and dishonesty and manipulation that allow a person like R. Kelly to behave as he allegedly has for so many years start to break, that somebody who starts to behave in the way he has allegedly behaved won’t get tied to a major label.
That instead of saying, “Okay, this artist is really talented, but he’s got this thing with little girls. It’s weird, but maybe we could just send somebody on the road, make sure the only girls who come back to his room are 18,” like, don’t take that chance! Don’t empower and embolden somebody like that. Say, “You know what, there’s some weird shit with this guy, and it’s not right. He has absolutely no room on any record label or any song that I’m producing.”
Related
I think we have unfortunately almost run out of time to truly punish or hold R. Kelly accountable. And the fight to get people of the mind that he needs to be held accountable at all, I’ve found, is not nearly as easy it should be. We have gone through this in 2001 [when the first stories that Kelly was being sued for statutory rape broke], and in 2008 [when Kelly was tried for charges of producing child pornography], and then again in 2013 [when Kelly headlined Pitchfork], and then again now. There are so many people that are willing to say they’re standing by this guy.
Lady Gaga recorded a record with him after the trial, and gave a performance at an award show that almost gave a little wink and a nod to some of the things he’s been accused of. It’s really disheartening, but I’d like to believe if she had to do it all over again, and if people who collaborated with him in recent years had to do it all over again, they wouldn’t.
We may not be able to punish this R. Kelly, but I’m very hopeful that we’ll be able to stop the next one.
Even if people don’t know Hans Zimmer’s name, they know his music — and after this summer, they may know his face too.
Zimmer is one of very few composers who have managed to write film scores that live beyond the movies they’re in; consider how ubiquitous the Inception horns became, or how the Pirates of the Caribbean theme is still so easy to recall even though the first movie was released 14 years ago. Especially now, such hummable themes are a rarity: Familiar hooks are used to evoke nostalgia rather than break new ground. (Consider how John Williams’s iconic original music is still the heaviest presence in the new Star Wars scores, instead of new compositions.)
But Zimmer persists in creating movie themes that endure — the most recent example of which is the instantly recognizable cue for the most recent iteration of Wonder Woman (co-written with the trance and electronica composer Junkie XL).
But beyond that, Zimmer has become something of a rock star in 2017.
When it was announced that the composer would be performing at Coachella in April of this year, the news was met with some bemusement before reactions quickly shifted into disbelief that it hadn’t happened already; after all, Zimmer had already tested the waters with a successful European tour in 2016, his first, proving the appeal of a Hans Zimmer live experience.
Now Zimmer is bringing the live-tour experience to the US, performing selections of his film scores at venues including Radio City Music Hall. Videos from Coachella and the tour are all over the web, including footage of Zimmer himself stepping in front of the orchestra and casually shredding riffs on keys and electric guitar. All of that familiar music — magical in its power to evoke emotion and to endure over time — now has a face.
A quick look over Zimmer’s past work makes it clear that he can’t be pigeonholed. His earliest forays into music were in New Wave and punk (notably with the Buggles) rather than in film, and he grew up with an ear — or rather, ears — already geared toward the evolution of music.
He’s described himself as having grown up with one foot in music and the other in technology, and the innovations in his scores prove as much. There’s his collaboration with Junkie XL; there’s the Inception noise, which he achieved by having brass instruments play into the body of a piano with the pedal pressed down; and he got the distinctive sound of the Sherlock Holmes soundtrack by destroying a piano. Any one of these methods might seem unusual for a film composer, but they’re hardly surprising from someone who recalls putting chainsaws on pianos as a young man.
Though Zimmer is more associated with his orchestral scores now, his early film work was largely composed solo, on the synthesizer and through the use of samples that Zimmer took himself. But as his career expanded, so did the scope of his music, and it's that scope that’s made him so enduring in the musical cultural consciousness. Zimmer is a constant innovator, and his embrace of technology means he’s able to adapt without compromising for the sake of whatever is trendy at the moment.
Sometimes he even goes blatantly against the grain; his score for Disney’s The Lion King is heavily orchestral and is supplemented by traditional African music, in contrast to Elton John and Tim Rice’s more Broadway-friendly songs (think about the driving, frantic music during the stampede sequence, or the Pride Rock theme, in relation to “I Just Can't Wait to Be King”), and yet it’s in perfect harmony with the film as a whole. Notably, Zimmer’s Lion King score almost didn’t happen, as the idea of doing a Broadway musical didn’t particularly appeal to him — but it was exactly that sensibility that Disney wanted, and Zimmer’s work on the film netted him his first (and so far only) Academy Award; it still appears in the actual Broadway show.
More recently, Zimmer helped develop an app showcasing the score for Inception that took into account the user’s whereabouts and movements, and even launched a viral event to help populate the 100,000 voices he wanted for the “rise up” chant that forms the base of much of The Dark Knight Rises’ score.
The latter is notable as an example of how Zimmer’s music evolves even within a single franchise, as, from Batman Begins to The Dark Knight to The Dark Knight Rises, the motifs shift in how they’re arranged (the frenetic energy of “Molossus” carries throughout), and the range of instruments used in them expands. Batman Begins is the most classical and orchestral of the bunch, The Dark Knight is the harshest and most experimental, and The Dark Knight Rises is the volatile middle, combining and then exalting elements of both.
In parallel with the expansion of his music from solo work to orchestral work, Zimmer’s interest in pop music collaboration has developed as well. On the small scale, this has manifested in adapting pop songs into scores that wouldn't seem to fit them otherwise, e.g., Imagine Dragons’ “I’m So Sorry” in Kung Fu Panda 3, or polka (polka!) covers of “New York, New York” and “The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly” in Madagascar 2. And on a broader scope, it’s put him in the same orbit as people whose names will readily ring a bell: He worked with Will.i.am on Madagascar 2, with Pharrell on the Oscars telecast, and with the Smiths’ Johnny Marr on a number of scores.
As Zimmer has begun touring with his music, these guests have lent even more of a rock ’n’ roll feel to the proceedings — Marr showed up on the European leg of the tour, and Lebo M, with whom Zimmer worked on The Lion King, has made appearances onstage with him as well. Even Zimmer's protégés reflect just how singular his music is; Ramin Djawadi’s Game of Thrones theme has become a part of the cultural lexicon, and his score for the show is now being played in a similar concert experience as well.
When asked why he's taking his music on tour, Zimmer said that he wanted to see if his music stands on its own, a feat that’s impressive for any composition, let alone a film score.
As the well-received and -attended world tour has revealed, his music absolutely has legs of its own. Even if it's not a typical concert experience — of his The Dark Knight score and how arrhythmic it is, he said, “We might as well all go off the deep end here together” — all of his music gets at the same nerve endings that might trigger a mosh pit frenzy anywhere else. It's used as a stand-in and in trailers everywhere because it provokes an emotional response without fail; The Thin Red Line was everywhere for a long while, even as temp music for movies that Zimmer was meant to score himself.
It feels fitting, as such, that Zimmer’s concert tour isn’t in promotion of any specific album or movie; it’s just a celebration of his music in every iteration it’s taken. He’s described his goal in composing scores as taking a journey, and it’s a vision that coalesces in the grander scope of his work as well. From the instruments and musicians he’s worked with to just how willing he is to innovate and reinvent his own music, Hans Zimmer is overdue to take his place in the spotlight alongside his music.
What keeps TV writers coming back to the white-collar, white-guy antihero, when that ground would seem to be so well-trodden?
Yes, many of the best shows of the 21st century — The Sopranos, Mad Men, Breaking Bad, etc., etc., etc. — have fit into that basic storytelling trope. But if you were to describe any of those series, I doubt you’d start with, “Well, it’s about a guy who does bad things.” And even if you did, you’d quickly be on to, say, Tony Soprano’s stint in therapy or Don Draper’s hidden past. Those shows might have used a seemingly upstanding man doing very bad things as a loose hook, but they also had so much more than that.
Rating
Yet we are, in 2017, in a strange glut of bad antihero shows, largely from streaming networks. Some of them, like Netflix’s Gypsy, try to change the basic template around the edges (the antihero is a lady this time!) but don’t find anything new or interesting to say. And then some of them, like Netflix’s new Ozark, just plod forward with the most basic and predictable version of the story imaginable.
If you really, really, really like crime dramas, Ozark, a show about a money launderer for a drug cartel moving to a rural area to try to set up a new money laundering operation, might give you a quick fix. But even then, you might find yourself guessing everything that happens before it does, and the ultra-glum, humorless tone would probably be a turn-off.
Ozark’s stubborn blandness raises the question of just why the antihero trope continues to be so appealing to creators and networks. With that question in mind, here are three reasons Ozark probably got made — and ended up being so boring.
If you’re an actor, especially an actor best known for a funny role, there are few better shining beacons out there for you than Bryan Cranston, who went from playing a very funny father on Malcolm in the Middle to completely redefining his career by playing the drug-cooking science teacher Walter White on Breaking Bad in the space of a few years. He won multiple Emmys, and then won a Tony and received an Oscar nomination after the show ended. Breaking Bad completely changed how everybody thought about Cranston, to the degree that when he plays funny now, it almost feels like he’s going against type.
Ozark hopes to do the same for Jason Bateman, the Arrested Development star who’s never quite found his niche after that show ended, despite worthy work in a number of film comedies. Bateman is also branching out into directing, which means that he can not only play the lead of Ozark — perpetually swamped money launderer Marty Byrde — but also direct four of its 10 episodes, just as Cranston directed a handful of Breaking Bad episodes. It’s a double redefinition for the actor.
And to be sure, Bateman is quite good in Ozark. At times, he was the main thing keeping me invested in the show, because he clearly saw something in the material I just didn’t. He’s willing to go to some dark and desperate places to make Marty’s journey from confident Chicagoan to rural resort town resident feel all the more visceral. He’s pouring himself into the role, even if I wish he would bring even an ounce of humor to it. (This was Cranston’s secret Breaking Bad weapon, especially late in the run, when his character had effectively gone full monster.)
What’s more, Ozark has attracted not just Bateman but also Laura Linney — who plays Marty’s wife, Wendy — to its ranks. Linney is asked to play the most basic, trope-y version of “dark antihero’s wife” you could possibly imagine, right down to the parts where she takes her own dark turns and the show invites you to judge her for them.
Linney, too, is good, and Ozark is on its strongest footing when it’s a show about the tests that define any marriage. You can sort of see a version of this story being about a middle-aged married couple rediscovering their spark (or coming to loathe each other) when forced to work together on a criminal operation, except...
I don’t know this for sure, but the way that Ozark season one plays out almost exactly like the first act of a conventional Hollywood movie — right down to the twists that happen in the finale — suggests to me that co-creator Bill Dubuque, best known for his script for the movie thriller The Accountant, took a solid movie idea and tried to stretch it into a TV show. (His other co-creator, Mark Williams, is a longtime film and TV producer. This is his first writing credit.)
“Married couple turns to life of crime when their marriage starts to grow stale” isn’t the world’s most original premise, but with the right stars and a great director, it could make for a fun dark dramedy. But Hollywood almost never makes these sorts of movies anymore, which means they’ve shifted over to TV. Yet where a movie can get by with only one or two conflicts, TV needs many small conflicts that fit under the umbrella of its larger ones, which is where so many movie screenwriters get tripped up, including Dubuque.
That said, Dubuque is not the showrunner of the series. That title falls to Chris Mundy, who created and ran the short-lived AMC dark cop drama Low Winter Sun and was evidently brought in to take an already dark series and cover it in an additional layer of artisanal grit and grime.
This leaves Ozark stuck in two of the most harmful regions a TV drama can find itself: slow-moving and glum. It takes this thing two whole episodes to set up a pretty simple premise: Money launderer for a big cartel ends up working from a rural area. And it’s never met a scene it couldn’t make even more turgid and portentous. Worse, because it wants to keep going into future seasons, it loses its nerve all over the place. (It threatens to drown two separate, major characters in two separate scenes, then has both of them saved at the last second, in ways that made me roll my eyes.)
Then again, maybe that’s the point, because...
The most interesting character in Ozark is, for lack of a better comparison point, its Jesse Pinkman. Named Ruth and played by Julia Garner (Kimmy from The Americans!), she’s a 19-year-old would-be crime lord trapped in a family of poor, blue-collar backwoods drug-runners, who are derisively referred to, from time to time, as hillbillies or rednecks or what-have-you. (This ends up being an important plot point.) Marty needs to make peace with them — or maybe cut a deal with them — and Ruth ends up being the closest thing he has to an ally, though her true allegiances are uncertain throughout.
Ruth is a fascinating character precisely because she has something to lose. She’s smart and undervalued and ready to learn. Yet any choice she makes will wipe out dozens of possible futures. Sign up with Marty and she risks raising the ire of her family. Hew closer to them and she risks losing whatever connection to the larger world of crime Marty offers. The same dilemma regarding Marty applies to any number of characters living in the series’ rural setting, including a pastor who preaches from a boat to local boaters and the owner of a lodge Marty ends up taking over.
This means that, for all intents and purposes, Ozark is a white savior narrative, along the lines of Dances With Wolves or The Last Samurai. In the white savior narrative, a character of European descent arrives in a nonwhite community and helps them realize how to move forward in life, while also learning lessons from them (usually about how their way of life is more “pure” somehow). There are good white savior stories and bad ones, but all of them have to guard constantly against tumbling over into stereotypes.
Ozark is not literally a white savior narrative, simply because all of the major characters are white. But it follows the same basic story arc of that trope, where an outsider who underestimates the new community he lands in arrives to both lead that community’s citizens toward a bold new future and learn from their homespun ways. The series is trying to put a dark gloss on this by setting it in the world of crime, but the beats are basically the same. And because Ozark doesn’t seem to realize this is the pool it’s playing in, it can’t avoid having almost every rural, lower-class character in its story become the most stereotypical version of themselves. Only Ruth escapes this fate, and that’s more due to Garner’s performance than anything else.
Ozark has given little to no thought about what would make people want to live within its world, beyond thinking that they’re trapped there. What makes these people want to attend a boat church? What world would they want to build if they had all the resources they needed? What do they know and understand that Marty never could? Ozark takes halfhearted stabs at answering all of these questions, but never with any conviction. It sees Marty, ultimately, as a tourist, no matter how much he insists that he’s moved to rural America forever.
If the rest of the show were better, this wouldn’t be a fatal flaw. Shows have overcome worse. But Ozark’s insistence on presenting the grimiest version of its story possible stands in the way of explaining why anything within its universe is happening. The presentation and the characters and the smug tone eventually coalesce into something deeply irritating, the TV series equivalent of one of those “Can you believe there are people who voted for Donald Trump?!” articles in a big-city newspaper. Ozark is offensive and doesn’t understand why it’s offensive — and that, in the end, is its greatest sin.
Ozark is streaming on Netflix. You could watch it, I guess.
Sam starting the process of treatment for Ser Jorah Mormont’s greyscale in “Stormborn” made for one of the more outright disgusting segments of Game of Thrones in some time (and yes, I say that even while remembering the season premiere’s chamber pot montage).
The sight (and sound) of Sam peeling Jorah’s diseased skin clean off his chest while his patient muffled pained screams was viscerally gross, especially once the scene transitioned with a seamless match cut to a particularly cheeky shot of someone digging into a gushing chicken pot pie. But it was also illuminating as to how one of the most mysterious ailments on Game of Thrones might be cured — and honestly, the answer is a little underwhelming.
Related
Per a study Sam swiped from the maesters’ library at the Citadel, the spread of greyscale can be stopped by peeling off the scaled skin and applying a special salve to the raw flesh of the affected areas. Sure, the man who wrote the study apparently died of greyscale while performing the procedure — thus leading to its ban — but come on. That’s it?
This solution, to be blunt, feels like a bit of a cop-out after Game of Thrones has spent so much time telling us that this contagious disease is essentially an automatic death sentence.
SAM: I think I can cure your grayscale.JORAH: How?SAM: By doing the most obvious thing.JORAH:SAM: Literally what an animal would try
Who would've know the cure for greyscale is exfoliation
And according to the Game of Thrones production design team — which has released pictures of the book Sam is consulting, along with some of the letters seen throughout “Stormborn” — the salve to be applied post-scale removal is made of, well, some pretty basic stuff.
After seasons of hearing about how devastating greyscale is and how there’s no consistently proven way for someone to save themselves once they’ve contracted this ultimately dangerous disease, Jorah Mormont is about to get treatment through a mixture of skin surgery plus pine resin, elder twig bark, beeswax, and olive oil.
If this most mysterious process weren’t the cure for greyscale, it would also make a pretty delightful candle.
Reviews of Christopher Nolan’s Dunkirk (including mine) are calling the movie the director’s best work so far — the Village Voice’s Bilge Ebiri says it is the “movie Christopher Nolan was born to make.”
High praise, indeed. But what does it mean to say that a movie is a Nolan masterpiece? What makes Nolan distinctive as a director? And how does Dunkirk — a movie about a historical event, not normal fare for the director — fit into his most distinctive interests?
Plenty of things mark Nolan’s work, some of which make him beloved to his fans and others that raise eyebrows. He’s sometimes dinged for making films that are too clinical, light on character development, largely uninterested in female and non-white characters except as props for the protagonists, and marred by their director’s private obsessions with time and trickery.
But while some of these criticisms have merit, it’s hard to dispute that Nolan is an important director, one who’s managed to find a way to make big-budget movies that people want to talk about, dissect, and revisit after they’ve seen them.
Dunkirk in particular leans hard into Nolan’s interests as a filmmaker, but with a twist that works to the historical story’s advantage. Here are four things to remember about Christopher Nolan’s films that help position Dunkirk in his larger body of work.
Most of Nolan’s films (many of which feature screenplays by his brother, Jonathan) explore big philosophical concepts, and none of them attempt to offer concrete answers. But whether he’s making science fiction, a crime drama, a superhero film, or a war movie, Nolan is remarkably consistent in his favored themes.
One of his most clear interests is memory: how it works, how it gets corrupted, and how our memories shape and even create what we consider to be “reality.”
Two of his films — 2000’s Memento and 2010’s Inception — are the most explicitly interested in the topic. In Memento, the protagonist (Guy Pearce) is literally suffering from a form of amnesia that leaves him without a short-term memory, and both his and the viewer’s perception of what’s “real” are affected by that condition. In the considerably higher-budget Inception, the protagonist (Leonardo DiCaprio) is trying to implant memories into someone else’s subconscious, and the nature of memory drives the plot.
But most Nolan films deal with memory in some way. Across the Dark Knight trilogy (Batman Begins, The Dark Knight, and The Dark Knight Rises), Bruce Wayne is haunted by the memory of his parents’ death — and though this isn’t Nolan’s invention, it is something he pulled out of Batman lore and emphasized. In The Prestige, the big twist hinges on a person — and the audience — relying on their memory, only to discover it’s faulty. And the near-future world at the start of Interstellar has tried to scrub its society of a collective memory, claiming that the Apollo missions never happened.
While Nolan’s films are sometimes accused of being clinical and emotionless, he at least seems to consider memory to be tied very tightly to our emotions. Following the release of Inception in 2010, he told Wired, “I wanted to deal with the world of dreams, and I realized that I really had to offer the audience a more emotional narrative, something that represents the emotional world of somebody’s mind. So both the hero’s story and the heist itself had to be based on emotional concepts.”
In Dunkirk, the role of memory is subtler than it’s been in his other films. The memories of battle experiences, which seem to have settled more in the soldiers’ bodies than their conscious minds, certainly affect how they act under siege — how they duck for a bomb, or react to enclosed spaces.
But Dunkirk’s true relationship to memory is in its source material: It takes as its basis an event that is part of our larger history, then tweaks that memory ever so slightly. In addition to taking some of the wind out of the triumphalist mythology that has grown up around the event — it doesn’t end on an entirely upbeat note — Dunkirk illustrates how many and varied types of heroism contributed to the evacuation.
So with Dunkirk, Nolan doesn’t address memory directly; instead, the movie performs a small and benevolent inception of its own, subtly reframing the audience’s memories of a major historical event.
Particularly in movies like Inception, Interstellar, Memento, and his 1998 debut feature Following, Nolan likes to mess with the ways we’re conditioned to think about time, particularly at the movies, where we expect a relatively straightforward progression of time that mirrors real life: Start at the beginning, proceed in an orderly fashion, and end at the end.
But Nolan isn’t all that interested in following those rules. In his films, time is just another tool in the arsenal, meant to be bent to the filmmaker’s will and not the other way around.
So frequently, what you’re seeing in a Nolan film feels like it’s chronological, and then you get to experience the thrill (or maybe annoyance) of realizing that what you assumed about the movie isn’t true: These two scenes don’t follow each other logically, or that event actually happened at a different time. It’s usually not just a neat trick, but rather an integral part of the storytelling. You’re supposed to suddenly feel dislocated, realizing that all of your assumptions about the world are a matter of perception.
In Memento, for example, the story is told on two parallel tracks; one runs forward, but the other runs backward, and that’s something we in the audience discover on our own. The story is slowly constructed as a kind of dance between filmmaker and viewer, who are working together to find the meaning alongside the protagonist. The audience’s temporal disorientation mimics the protagonist’s — and that makes for a more powerful viewing experience.
Nolan’s love of messing with time is no surprise, given his interest in memory. Memories go hand in hand with time, after all; memories are the primary way that the past is “real” to us. But memories can be faulty, especially in Nolan’s world. That means that sometimes our perception of time is faulty, too. We lose track of when something happened, or we failed at the time to recognize how it fit into other life events. Nolan repeatedly compels viewers to reexamine the “facts” we take as settled truth about our world by giving us a mini-lesson at the multiplex.
One of the key features that sets Dunkirk apart from other war films is how it treats time: The movie moves along three separate planes of time, which it lays out right at the beginning of the film and cuts between throughout. We observe one set of characters over the course of a week, another set over a day, and another set over just an hour. The film itself is only about two hours long, which means “time” is moving much more quickly for some characters than for others.
That’s not normal for a historical film based on a famous battle, but it’s certainly done with purpose in Dunkirk. It helps underline an experience that’s hard to demonstrate in a more straightforward movie: that war (and other experiences of extreme stress) tend to distort memory and perceptions of time. Our experience of dislocation out in the cinema seats matches, in some small way, how people who were actually present at the events would experience them.
But in Dunkirk, right from the start, we know the planes of time will also eventually converge on each other. And that point of convergence — when all of these people who have been moving along separate timelines suddenly are in the same place, at the same time, at just the right moment to avert utter disaster — helps dismantle the tendency of war films to promote a kind of “great man” theory, or to make the eventual moment of rescue seem like it was inevitable. In war, nothing is inevitable; no one person is solely responsible for what happens; and chance (or Providence, depending on your philosophical commitments) governs both victory and defeat. Dunkirk’s unique time structure builds that insight into the film as a whole.
Though he started with small, low-budget thrillers like Following and Memento, Nolan rapidly became a blockbuster director. Nolan’s evolution into a maker of big, plot-driven films reflects his interest in getting moviegoers to revise their expectations about what a popular, successful, big-budget movie can be.
One of the most effective ways he does this is by taking popular genres (mysteries, thrillers, sci-fi, superheroes, war) and rethinking what they can do. This is something he shares with filmmakers like Quentin Tarantino, Paul Thomas Anderson, and the Coen brothers, all of whom also love film, study the history of cinema, and want to move it forward by seeing what kind of new tricks old genres can pull off.
But when Nolan takes on a new genre, lots of people get excited, for good reason. His track record shows that a director with a distinctive style who’s given leeway by the studio to deviate from the norm can make a crowd-pleaser that brings in the big bucks at the box office and also lands critical accolades — whether it’s by reimagining comic book movies as political commentary (in the Dark Knight trilogy), sci-fi as quasi-post-apocalyptic family drama (Interstellar), or detective noir as psychological drama (Insomnia, Memento).
Nolan’s movies tell exciting, intriguing stories in popular genres, but science fiction films, superhero films, and war films all become something slightly different in his hands. Dunkirk is no exception; it’s certainly a historic war film, but its take on time and space through its multi-threaded storyline makes it something more universal and more distinctive at the same time. It seems to draw on fantasy epics as much as films like Saving Private Ryan — and that twist is vintage Nolan.
Usually when we think of what makes a successful movie, the first thing we think about is the story. But Nolan’s mission to challenge what audiences think about filmmaking shows that he isn’t just interested in the story: He’s deeply interested in all of the parts of film and in highlighting (and sometimes distorting) the essential components of any given movie.
A movie comprises visual images. It almost always has sound. (Even in the silent film era, films were usually shown alongside a piano player, and in the moments when a movie doesn’t employ any sound at all, the silence itself becomes a kind of sound.) And a movie unfolds over time, at the pace that the filmmaker intends; you could fast-forward through a film, but then you haven’t watched it. It’s these essential components — image, sound, structure — that define Nolan’s relationship with film as a work of art rather than a story to be told.
Movie studios (and the executives who hold the purse strings) are often allergic to risk, which means experimentation isn’t as common in movies meant for a broad audience. And certainly Nolan has made his share of things that fit the studio system (he did, after all, reboot a superhero franchise with Batman Begins, then proceed to make two sequels). But he’s still very interested in how film itself works and how it can push boundaries, and that manifests in his working methods.
He’s been experimenting with both 70mm projection and IMAX for a while, including in the prologue for The Dark Knight Rises, parts of Inception, and Interstellar. For Dunkirk, he shot the whole movie in these formats. Like Tarantino and Anderson, he’s known as a traditionalist when it comes to how a movie looks, preferring film over digital and eschewing 3D. (The trio has an unofficial support group.)
Nolan is also known for making very loud films, with big, bold scores (and sometimes explosions) that can overwhelm the film’s dialogue. In fact, following the release of Interstellar, movie theaters had to put up signs informing audience members that their equipment was working just fine, and if they had complaints about having trouble understanding the dialogue, they should take it up with Nolan.
Nolan responded, telling the Hollywood Reporter that this was on purpose:
Many of the filmmakers I’ve admired over the years have used sound in bold and adventurous ways. I don’t agree with the idea that you can only achieve clarity through dialogue. Clarity of story, clarity of emotions — I try to achieve that in a very layered way using all the different things at my disposal — picture and sound.
To Nolan, dialogue mixed down into the sound effects and music is a way to make viewers take in everything that’s happening in the film, rather than fixating only on what people are saying. The quality of the sound becomes part of the storytelling, rather than merely a vehicle for it.
This approach infuriates some audience members, but it’s certainly no accident. Dunkirk may be Nolan’s most effective use of this technique: There’s not much talking in the movie, and a lot of it is obscured by the sounds of guns firing and planes flying overhead. But that’s by design. That’s what war sounds like.
Nolan is also fascinated by how ethical questions can be part of the blockbuster experience. Memento is not just about a man with amnesia; it’s about the morality of revenge. The Dark Knight is not just about Batman; it’s about the blurry line between random violence and vigilantism. The Prestige is not just a neat magic trick; it’s about rivalry, obsession, science vs. magic, and class warfare. And Dunkirk is not just about a war; it’s about what it takes to win a war, and the human cost that entails.
Over and over, Nolan has shown himself to be interested in both entertaining audiences and making them think, in pushing the boundaries of what they believe a movie can and should be. Like or hate the result, it’s hard to deny how popular his movies are, despite the often complicated ideas he explores and the risks he takes with his filmmaking.
The fact that Dunkirk — a war movie that subverts war movies, was shot in multiple formats, and once again messes with the way time and memory works — raked in 20 percent more at the box office than projected its opening weekend proves once again that Nolan’s idiosyncratic approach to film can be popular as well. Whether or not history records it as his masterpiece, it’s one more indication that Nolan is always a director worth paying attention to — and that his signature interests can make for compelling movies no matter the source material.
In Game of Thrones’ latest episode, “Stormborn,” while her ally Euron Greyjoy scores a tactically crucial victory at sea, embattled Queen Cersei Lannister plots in the crypts beneath the Red Keep with Qyburn about how to neutralize the real source of Queen Daenerys Targaryen’s strength — her air force of three dragons.
Qyburn explains that stories of Dany’s rise indicate that one of her dragons was wounded in battle back in Essos, and that if dragons can be wounded, that means they can be killed. To emphasize the point, he unveils what looks to be a gigantic crossbow (Leonardo da Vinci had a design for one) and shoots a bolt at the skull of Balerion the Black Dread, a long-dead dragon whose bones — like those of many other dragons — are stored in the crypt. The bolt shatters the dragon skull, suggesting it has enough power to kill one of the beasts.
Whether this will work in practice remains to be seen. But history — at least as revealed in George R.R. Martin’s novella “The Princess and the Queen,” which is set in the same universe as the books the HBO series is based on but about 170 years earlier — teaches that dragons can indeed be killed. They are formidable creatures, but not invulnerable ones, and there doesn’t even appear to be a particular trick or gimmick to killing them. You just need to hit them hard enough.
But killable though they are, history also teaches that dragons really are game-changing military assets. And like any weapon, their effective use requires a complementary political strategy. Westeros’s history has been profoundly shaped by the potential and limits of dragon-based warfare, and as Euron’s ambush of Yara’s fleet looks likely to leave Dany more reliant on her dragons, those same limits will likely shape the rest of her character arc.
In Martin’s books, nobody is quite sure where dragons come from initially, but an ancient city-state known as Valyria mastered the art of training and riding dragons. The Valyrians then used their command of dragons to conquer a vast empire on the continent of Essos that was the dominant civilization of its era. Near the end of Valyria’s existence, House Targaryen somewhat enigmatically chose to leave the empire and settle on the island of Dragonstone off the coast of Westeros.
That was lucky for them because just a few years later came the mysterious and apocalyptic collapse of Valyria, known as the Doom, which entailed Valyria’s total destruction and the deaths of all the other dragonlords.
After the Doom, the only dragons left were the Targaryen dragons. And for 100 years or so, the family and their dragons more or less left the lords of Westeros alone. But then Aegon set out to conquer the neighboring continent. He had only a small army, but he had a dragon (the aforementioned Balerion whose skeleton is now in the Red Keep’s crypt), and he also had two sisters, each of whom also had a dragon. All three siblings had mastered the art of riding their dragons into battle.
Aegon’s successful conquest inaugurated a second golden age of dragons, whose total population eventually rose to 20 as the Targaryen dynasty consolidated its control over Westeros. But then, as depicted in Martin’s novella, a succession dispute led to a Targaryen civil war known as the Dance of the Dragons (not to be confused with the fifth installment in the Game of Thrones book series, A Dance With Dragons, or the TV show's season five episode “A Dance of Dragons,” neither of which is about this civil war), which pitted dragon rider against dragon rider.
This deadly affair killed most of the dragons — and most of the humans with the ability to tame and ride dragons — leaving only four surviving fire breathers, two of which disappeared, with one roaming wild and untamed. Over the course of the next 20 years, those dragons died off, and the only new hatchling was stunted and deformed and didn’t live long.
Dragons were gone, until about 150 years later when Dany took three dragon eggs with her into a funeral pyre at the end of Game of Thrones’ first season, and they later hatched.
The upshot of all of this is that, of course, dragons die.
Dragons generally grow more powerful over time, but Balerion is described as having died of old age when he was about 200 years old.
Dragons can also end up wounding and even killing each other in combat, as happened often during the dance. As described in “The Princess and the Queen,” Sunfyre killed Grey Ghost, for example, but sustained injuries that impeded him during a later fight with the young dragon Moondancer. Moondancer, too, ended up dead at Sunfyre’s hands, but Sunfyre sustained additional injuries in that battle, which left him crippled and unable to fly. After a period of suffering, Sunfyre, too, succumbed to his wounds.
But the civil war also saw dragons killed by more conventional means. At one point, a mob inspired by an eccentric preacher stormed the Dragonpit at King’s Landing and succeeded in killing four dragons that were hobbled by chains.
A variety of dragons have also been killed by being shot or stabbed in the eye. The incident with the most direct relevance to Qyburn’s plan, recounted in the Game of Thrones companion book The World of Ice and Fire, is that during the First Dornish War, the dragon Meraxes (one of the three dragons Aegon used in his initial conquest) was shot through the eye with a bolt from a scorpio.
Killable though dragons may be, they are nonetheless by far the most dominant military technology in the known world. The vast majority of dragon deaths in combat involved direct confrontations with other dragons. A sneak attack on the hobbled dragons confined inside the Dragonpit confirms that they certainly can be killed by humans, but it also emphasizes how difficult this is to do.
When dragons are unleashed against forces that lack dragons, they have time and again proven to offer a decisive military edge.
During Aegon’s War of Conquest, dragons defeated both a massive combined Westerlands/Reach army in open combat on the Field of Fire and an entrenched force of Ironborn and Riverlanders who'd taken refuge at the allegedly impregnable fortress of Harrenhal (Balerion’s flames melted the stone). After witnessing the devastation of rival armies, Torrhen Stark and his Northern host decided that discretion was the better part of valor and chose to bend the knee.
Despite their potency at defeating massed enemies, dragons are fundamentally ineffective at controlling a mass of territory.
Consequently, when the Dornish chose to resist Aegon’s conquest via what amounts to a strategy of guerrilla warfare, they were largely successful. Targaryen dragons were able to devastate Dornish castles and prevent the Dornish from assembling a standing army in the fields. But like the American military fighting in Vietnam or Afghanistan, the Targaryens found that air power is difficult to use against forces that are willing to scatter and conceal themselves. Only large numbers of boots on the ground could actually control Dornish territory, a prospect whose costs proved daunting. Dorne was eventually brought into the Targaryen empire via marriage alliance, which helps explain Dorne’s semi-privileged position in the Seven Kingdoms (its leader is styled a “prince” rather than a mere “lord”) as well as Dorne’s strong loyalty to the Targaryen dynasty.
Dornish resistance, though effective, was also costly. That few ultimately pursued such a strategy is testament to not only the power of dragons but also Aegon’s pragmatism about his military objectives.
He was ruthless in decapitating regimes that opposed him — replacing the Gardeners of the Reach, the Hoares of the Iron Islands, and the Durrandons of the Stormlands with Houses Tyrell, Greyjoy, and Baratheon, respectively. But lesser houses that were willing to submit to him maintained their lands, castles, and titles. In exchange for surrendering, the rulers of Houses Stark, Lannister, and Arryn lost the title “king” but remained “lords paramount” of their respective regions, and in a practical sense they retained enormous autonomy.
Critically, Aegon did not attempt to reform political or social practices in any meaningful way. The Targaryens adopted the Faith of the Seven, while allowing the North and the Iron Islands to stick with their respective religions. Legal systems continued to vary from place to place, and the lives of ordinary people and even the lesser nobility and the vast majority of knights would have been essentially unchanged.
At least twice in “Stormborn,” while plotting strategy on Dragonstone, Daenerys justifies her approach on the grounds that she does not wish to be “Queen of the Ashes” — i.e., a tyrant who comes to power by wreaking havoc on her subjects.
The precedent of Aegon’s conquest suggests it’s at least possible that she could execute a purely dragon-based strategy with perhaps less bloodshed than she fears. Dorne and the Reach are already prepared to submit; we know (but Dany doesn’t) that Jon Snow would gladly trade away his title for the giant pile of dragonglass she is sitting on; and Petyr Baelish is too much of a survivor to attempt to stand and fight against the odds. A targeted dragon strike on the Red Keep might well kill Cersei and break her political power with little need for further fighting.
People would die in this strategy, including innocents, but it’s far from clear why Dany would think that shuttling a Dornish army north and having it set siege to a major city would be a less bloody option. Now, given the defeat of her fleet at Euron Greyjoy’s hands, she may have no choice.
The larger issue is that while dragons are an incredibly potent tool for defeating massed armies and forcing the formal surrender of foreign political elites, as she herself learned in Meereen, they’re less good at executing a program of social reform. Given that slavery is already illegal in Westeros, it’s not entirely clear what she has in mind in this respect, but Dany is certainly an idealist, and idealism often proves to be an awkward match for a political strategy that’s based on flying death machines.
Ever since the first season of Game of Thrones, the show has made it seem pretty obvious that we are headed for some kind of confrontation between flying, fire-breathing dragons and the ice monsters in the North. Martin’s series of books is even formally called A Song of Ice and Fire, and the dragons sure seem like the fire.
Based on everything we know, this checks out.
Dragons breathe fire, and fire is the only reliable way to kill the White Walkers’ undead minions, the wights. White Walkers can also be killed by Valyrian steel, whose manufacture is a lost art just like the Valyrian art of dragon riding. But they can also be killed by dragonglass, a material whose name certainly suggests a connection to dragons, and which is available in great quantities on Dragonstone.
Given all this, it’s interesting that the legends of the Long Night — referenced in somewhat different ways by the Red Priests Melisandre and Thoros, by the Winterfell servant Old Nan, and by a few different Maesters — don’t say that the Night’s King was subdued by dragons. Instead, Azor Ahai and/or the Prince That Was Promised (the very same prince — or princess — that Melisandre referred to when meeting with Dany in “Stormborn”) slayed the White Walkers with a flaming sword, and Bran the Builder constructed the Wall to protect the Realms of Men long before the Targaryens brought dragons to Westeros.
Superman can do anything, it seems, but have a mustache.
Or to be more accurate, it’s Henry Cavill’s mustache that’s reportedly causing some problems for Warner Bros.’ upcoming Justice League movie, which is due to be released on November 17 but is nonetheless currently undergoing extensive reshoots (which are generally filmed to fix or replace scenes that aren’t working).
After initial filming on Justice League was complete, it seems that Cavill reasonably assumed he was done playing the smooth-jawed Man of Steel for a minute and grew out his facial hair for a part in the next Mission: Impossible movie.
Related
According to a new Variety report, however, Justice League is being retooled so much — with an assist from The Avengers’ Joss Whedon, no less, now that director Zack Snyder has stepped away from the project to cope with his daughter’s recent death — that Warner Bros. has agreed to just digitally remove Cavill’s mustache from any reshot Justice League scenes rather than lose any more time.
That’s because, per one particularly amusing detail in Variety’s account of the situation, Mission: Impossible producer Paramount reportedly “would not allow Cavill to shave the facial hair while production was taking place.” (Just imagine the resulting negotiations for a second and tell me it’s not an outtake from the Coen brothers’ Hail Caesar.)
Many people have (rightfully) delighted in this detail as the hilarious one it is. Some are even imagining a brave new world in which Superman — not to mention fellow his Justice League teammates Wonder Woman, Batman, Aquaman, the Flash, and Cyborg — can both save the world and sport a bushy mustache.
Tried to do a little sketch of Mustache Superman and it's basically Freddie Mercury pic.twitter.com/1lKrqqKs4e
pic.twitter.com/GW6UCzz6Zv
But mostly this anecdote serves as a tangible example of just how hard Warner Bros. is scrambling to make sure Justice League succeeds, and the studio’s apparent belief that in order for the film to have a chance at that success, it requires an almost total tonal revamp.
As of this week, Wonder Woman has officially passed Marvel’s Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 to become the summer’s biggest box office hit. That’s a huge boon for both DC Comics and Warner Bros., which may have found monetary success with Batman v Superman and Suicide Squad but were presumably unhappy with the overwhelmingly negative critical response they received. Both movies were slammed for their incoherent stories, their dedication to reimagining beloved comic stories in a relentlessly grim fashion, and their unyielding darkness (both figurative and literal).
Meanwhile, not only is Wonder Woman still tracking better than both of those films, but it’s also been met with widespread acclaim, with the character of Diana Prince inspiring huge cultural cachet and enthusiasm.
So it stands to reason that this success is a huge motivating factor for Warner Bros. to make sure its next DC Comics movie — Justice League — doesn’t squander the opportunity to draw in the fans that came out in such force for Wonder Woman, making the Gal Gadot film an undeniable, massive success.
It seems some adjustments were inevitable for Justice League after Whedon took over directing the project in March. But Variety reports that he is now taking on more than anyone could have anticipated as he carries Justice League over the finish line. (Whedon will not get a co-directing credit, though he may wind up with a producing or screenwriting credit like Tony Gilroy did when he took over the similarly extensive Rogue One reshoots for director Gareth Edwards.)
According to Variety, Warner Bros. is so dedicated to retooling Justice League that it’s devoted about $25 million to reshoots, versus the more typical $10 million or so. Sources tell Variety that Justice League’s reshoots are largely focusing on fixing some “connective tissue” in bigger set piece battles and “punching up” the dialogue to be a little pithier. Both of these tasks land firmly within Whedon’s usual wheelhouse — as we’ve seen at Marvel, where his bantering and bombastic take on The Avengers became the linchpin for the studio’s ongoing web of interlocking superhero stories.
All of this suggests that Warner Bros. wants Justice League to look less like the grim wars of Batman v Superman and more like The Avengers — or the buoyant Wonder Woman. In fact, some people, like Vulture’s Kyle Buchanan, have even noted that the most recent Justice League trailer, released last weekend at Comic-Con, is literally lighter than the first, seemingly to bring Snyder’s direction out of its preferred shadows.
I had heard they were lightening the color correction a little. On left, the first trailer... on right, the newest pic.twitter.com/8BE4pJqkMo
But with Justice League’s release date holding firm in November — just a few months away! — how much can it really change? We may never truly know what the film originally looked like, but it will at least be fascinating to see what the combination of Snyder and Whedon’s perspectives will do for this next critical step in the DC-Warner Bros. superhero universe.
Corrected to reflect that Cyborg, not Cyclops, is part of the Justice League.
Millions of people had their first hands-on computer graphics experience via a drawing and coloring program that could only save in a few file formats, and which could only be used to produce passable art by the very, very talented.
Yet despite its hurdles to achieving greatness, Microsoft Paint has inspired overwhelming affection in the many who have dabbled in the rudimentary software. And so the news that Microsoft is formally deprecating the 32-year-old application dredged up a wave of mournful nostalgia on social media Monday.
RIP MS Paint. RIP our childhoods pic.twitter.com/UpNYEDe4cA
Paint has been a basic Windows feature since the very first edition of Windows was released in 1985. But Microsoft has announced that as of the upcoming Fall Creators Update to Windows 10, the beloved low-maintenance graphics program will be considered “not in active development,” which also means it “might be removed in future releases.”
The news inspired an outpouring of grief on social media, as would-be artists across the internet (many of them likely using their non-Windows devices) shared tributes and sadness over the passing of one of the greats.
Children of the future will never know the joy of spending hours doing this on Microsoft Paint #MSpaint pic.twitter.com/IY6kDxPdc4
My reaction to #MSpaint news
A post shared by P (@lila_can_gel) on Jul 24, 2017 at 10:24am PDT
A few people discussed the importance of MS Paint in teaching young or new learners vital tricks of the trade, from using a mouse to learning to draw.
Wait, did they seriously do that? Why? MS Paint is how you get kids to learn how to use a mouse.
Bye bye MS Paint... You made us feel like awesome digital painters at ages 6 and 9 years.  Thank you.  Nandi Maasi and Amit Masa, thank you for bringing this gem into our lives. I still remember my first day at the summer workshop at Art Underground.  My first assignment was to make 10 straight equidistant lines without using the shift key   Good times   #MSPaint #memories #Childhood #Goodbye #Baroda #Paint #Digital #90s
A post shared by Praneti Kulkarni (@pranets) on Jul 24, 2017 at 10:21am PDT
Naturally, the news also inspired people to share their MS Paint creations, both good and bad.
microsoft is killing PAINT about which i feel rather sad. I used it for all the curious illustrations. This is me trying it out early on... pic.twitter.com/rQPHh8oRHR
Here's an old Paint drawing in honor of the most important software ever created. #RIPpaint #selfie #tb #computers #mspaint #goat
A post shared by    דָּנִיֵּאל    (@thedanielgrant) on Jul 24, 2017 at 10:52am PDT
Oh sad times! Microsoft have revealed that their iconic Paint programme is destined for the recycle bin! I used to spend hours playing on Paint in t'olden days (there wasn't much to do in rural Cumbria) and even in my twenties (yeah I'm a loser). Here are some of the random cartoons I drew on loveable old Paint! #microsoftpaint #paint #byebyepaint #cartoons #cartoonist #microsoft #sadtimes #endofanera
A post shared by Rebecca Jeffery (Becs) (@_rebeccajeffery) on Jul 24, 2017 at 8:35am PDT
Members of Reddit’s r/NBA and r/soccer forums were encouraged to “Go into MS paint, Draw your team's past 32 years in a nutshell and then kiss paint goodbye,” with predictably hilarious results.
Then there were others who had a snarkier take on the program, in particular its notoriously steep learning curve:
seriously #microsoftpaint you can't get rid of paint i've been trying to workout how to use it for 20 years .. i need more time pic.twitter.com/me1zqAhhdm
The difficulty of using MS Paint meant that if you were one of the few who could create a visually interesting/distinctive image in the program, you could basically become an internet god. Witness the masterpieces regularly churned out by Tumblr user Jim’ll Paint It, who made a name for himself doodling MS Paint prompts by request, or the stunning work of Flickr artist Martin Amend, or this epic fantasy in Paint form. Reddit user sonofjay’s 2012 Paint drawing of Morgan Freeman came with a 33-step process guide that remains a tour de force in internet art tutorials.
The pixellated nature of Paint drawings has often meant that anytime an artist has figured out how to make that pixellation work in their favor, the results are uniquely specific, capturing a gritty, nearly shaky-cam flavor of art that you can really only get in Paint itself.
Of course, the whole reason Microsoft can kill off Paint is that it recently unveiled a reportedly cooler alternative: MS Paint 3D. But the main object of Paint 3D is to make 3D objects, which won’t appeal to those who appreciate the obstacles and challenges of Paint — like trying to draw a straight line using only a mouse and the world’s most cantankerous basic art program.
Update: Perhaps because of the hubbub surrounding the news of Paint’s deprecation, Microsoft has now confirmed to Motherboard that has no immediate plans to sunset Paint, and a new update to Microsoft’s support page notes that it will remain available for free download in the Windows store.
One of the most mysterious puzzles on Game of Thrones is greyscale, a strange disease that causes human skin to become stone-like. What on earth could actually cause it? We asked a dermatologist.
The signs are unmistakable: Hardened gray skin makes those who suffer unrecognizable to friends and family. They become extremely contagious and must be quarantined.
And yet how much do we really know about greyscale, the plague that citizens of Westeros fear but do not yet understand? Game of Thrones has only revealed a few afflicted patients onscreen, but this handful of cases provides an opportunity to investigate what causes the mysterious illness.
We must rely only on what we've seen onscreen (or read in the books that Game of Thrones is based on) to attempt a diagnosis. Unfortunately, facts on the ground are few.
Here's what we know:
It remains unclear if any treatments for greyscale are effective, aside from some wizardry. However, as we saw in season seven’s “Stormborn,” Samwell uncovered two case reports (in The Study of Rare Diseases by Archmaester Pylos) in which excision of affected tissues was curative, although Pylos likely acquired greyscale during the procedure, causing it to be forbidden.
If an infection was limited to certain tissues, excision (or debridement — the removal of infected, damaged, or dead tissue) could be an effective strategy, assuming infection has not spread to other tissues. Given the high skin contact contagiousness for greyscale, surgeons would be prudent to wear full protective gear including a full facial mask while performing this procedure (safety first, Samwell).
To make a diagnosis, let’s consider five separate questions.
1) Is greyscale infectious?
Greyscale must be infectious. Cases were transmitted person to person, and the disease was controlled when affected patients were isolated via quarantine. However, it is difficult to prove the type of infection, though we know transmission is by skin-to-skin contact.
For instance, despite close proximity to those affected by greyscale — known to many on Game of Thrones as Stonemen — Tyrion was untouched and unaffected, but Jorah developed a lesion within a day of skin-to-skin contact with a Stoneman (as seen in season five’s “Kill the Boy”). Shireen, who never had contact with affected patients, owned a doll that possibly carried the infection.
Greyscale, thus, is extremely contagious, far more so than Ebola (which is spread through bodily fluids, usually blood), making greyscale more like anthrax or smallpox. For comparison, anthrax is not spread person to person but instead by contact with the skin or through inhalation. Smallpox is spread by respiratory transmission and via fomites (clothes/linens/items that may carry an infection), in addition to being spread by person-to-person contact.
Despite its high contagiousness and fast appearance after contact, as far as we can tell, greyscale progresses slowly. Anthrax and smallpox can kill someone in days, but greyscale is insidious, getting worse over a long period of time, though it may never kill the infected person.
One final word of warning: If isolated, the infectious agent in greyscale would be a bioterrorism risk.
2) What kind of infectious agent might cause greyscale?
Many different kinds of infectious agents cause skin diseases, but in the case of greyscale, only a few types are likely to be the cause. Here are the three most likely to cause problems:
In Jorah's case, greyscale appeared at the inoculation site within a day, suggesting rapid transmission without penetrating injury. Over time, the infection has continued to spread to adjacent skin and has developed pus under the scales. Pus (the viscous yellow-white fluid composed of white blood cells, tissue debris, and infection) can be caused by any of these types of infectious agents, though it is most common with bacterial infections and some viral infections (herpes viruses).
We can't surmise everything from that, but we can make a good guess. Given that the infectious agent must be transmissible skin to skin, develop quickly, and survive on fabric, the most likely candidate would be a virus.
3) Is greyscale like leprosy?
Not really. Leprosy (or Hansen's disease) is caused by mycobacteria, but it isn't very contagious and isn't transmitted by skin-to-skin contact. Like greyscale patients, patients with leprosy may become obviously deformed with time, and isolation limits transmission, but the parallels between the two conditions end there.
Leprosy patients undergo completely different skin changes. Unlike the scaly thick rashes all over the body seen in greyscale patients, leprosy patients display thickened areas without scaling (e.g., thickening of the skin on the face), as well as changes from the neuropathy they develop (e.g., shortening of digits). Leprosy is thought to be transmitted only by respiratory droplets, yet most contacts will not develop the disease — indeed, there may be a genetic predisposition.
Interestingly, in recent years in the United States, cases of leprosy in Florida, Texas, and Louisiana have been reported in patients that had one thing in common: contact with armadillos. The mycobacteria responsible for leprosy has been detected in armadillos.
4) Does greyscale only affect humans?
Thus far, it seems that greyscale is limited to humans. It remains to be seen if armadillos, dragons, or White Walkers would be vulnerable.
5) Why is there an odd skin pattern in patient Shireen?
Perhaps the pattern on Shireen Baratheon’s face occurred because of the acuity of her treatment, which occurred immediately upon discovery of her condition and seemingly halted the infection from progressing. Still, Shireen’s skin changes as a result of her greyscale — limited to one side of her face — are actually more suggestive of an inherited skin condition with a mosaic pattern, perhaps with delayed onset.
Mosaicism occurs when certain cells in the body have different genetic expression, thus giving a mosaic of expression. This is the same explanation for what occurs in calico cats, who express different genes in different parts of their skin, causing patches of hair with different colors.
In Shireen, given her mosaic pattern, the differential diagnosis would include rare mosaic skin diseases, such as epidermal nevus syndromes and inherited ichthyoses. (An ichthyosis is a skin disease that causes dry and scaly "fish-like" rashes.)
It is possible that greyscale could be both infectious and related to an inherited disease. In the HPV-caused disease epidermodysplasia verruciformis, for instance, only certain people carry mutations that allow them to be infected.
Perhaps only certain cells in Shireen’s skin were susceptible to infection, and maybe that is why progression of her disease was halted, rather than by the magic of her father's wizards, who are generally given credit for her condition's control.
From the available evidence, greyscale would seem an insidious infection that is most likely caused by a smallpox or HPV-like virus. Such a virus could be easily transmitted skin to skin.
Once the infectious agent is isolated, work can begin immediately on a greyscale vaccine — or, more likely, a series of spells meant to halt its process.
Jules Lipoff, MD, is an assistant professor of clinical dermatology at the University of Pennsylvania. His research interests include telemedicine and global health, and he serves as a volunteer telemedicine consultant for Doctors Without Borders. His writing has appeared in the New York Times, McSweeney's, and the Village Voice, in addition to numerous academic journals. He is the author of the only report of greyscale in the medical literature.
Jim Henson’s wife and son handpicked him to be Henson’s successor. Disney encouraged him to do interviews in character. But now, after voicing the role of Kermit the Frog for 27 years, voice actor and puppeteer Steve Whitmire has been fired.
Earlier this month, news broke that Disney’s Muppets Studio had quietly fired Whitmore in October, replacing him with a different performer. But now that the news is out, Whitmire isn’t going quietly. In several blog posts and interviews, he’s accused Disney of firing him without giving him a chance to respond to the company’s complaints about his job performance, and heavily implied that his firing is antithetical both to what’s best for the Muppets and to the late Jim Henson’s vision for the beloved characters.
But Disney and members of the Henson family disagree, alleging multiple instances in which Whitmire behaved unprofessionally and exhibited hostility toward colleagues.
Is Whitmire’s firing simply the result of an escalated workplace feud, or has Whitmire’s longtime sense of ownership over Kermit and the Muppets come into conflict with Disney’s direction for the Muppets franchise? Here’s a rundown of what we do and don’t know about the firing — and what the fallout might mean for Muppets fans.
Whitmire first began working with Muppets in 1978, and ascended through the ranks to be appointed Jim Henson’s successor as Kermit’s voice and puppeteer after Henson’s unexpected death in 1990. He played the role until October 2016, when he alleges Disney fired him over the phone. In a July 11 blog post that he wrote to publicly discuss his firing, Whitmire claims he was fired out of the blue, with no opportunity given to remedy Disney’s “two stated issues which had never been mentioned to me prior to that phone call.”
“I am still trying to make sense of how those two issues were egregious enough to justify ending a 39-year career without at least giving me an ultimatum at the time the issue occurred when I would have had a chance to correct my course," he later told the Hollywood Reporter.
In multiple interviews, Whitmire has clarified the two issues in question. The first was that he apparently gave too many negative and unwanted notes on ABC’s failed 2015 series The Muppets. In one example Whitmire shared with the Hollywood Reporter, he said he had taken issue with the fact that Kermit lied to his nephew in an episode of the series, which was canceled last spring after one season.
The second issue concerned an incident that occurred 15 months prior to his firing, in which Whitmire failed to complete a short video appearance. The details surrounding the incident are unclear, but it reportedly involved Screen Actors Guild contract negotiations, and Whitmire has claimed that the union had advised him not to do the project.
Ever since the news of his firing became public, however, Whitmire has heavily implied, mainly on his blog, that the real reason he was dismissed is that he cared too much about safeguarding Jim Henson’s vision for the Muppets. “Doing what is best for the Muppets is the lens through which all my interactions have been filtered,” he wrote in his initial July 11 blog post. Then in a follow-up post on July 15, he described himself as “the last samurai” standing between the Muppets and a loss of their core values:
I believe characters like Kermit need to remain built on the sturdy foundation of their past in order to be progressive going forward. Integrity is everything, and that’s true for the Muppets, as well. As one of the last two active originators of the Muppets, I still have a big job to do before the next group can effectively step in.
It is no longer the Muppets if core values are lost or discarded. While I fought very hard for the integrity of the Muppets over the last twelve years largely to my own detriment, maybe I should have fought even harder and louder…and, yes, I would have likely been gone sooner… I fear I was the last samurai.
Though Whitmire hasn’t discussed specific incidents or character issues beyond the one he mentioned to THR, he also wrote that he has long felt the Muppets were losing something vital about themselves that he was trying to defend — to no avail.
“[B]eing outspoken about these very character issues to the top creative executives on the ABC series is at the core of the number one issue stated to me for my termination by [Disney’s] Muppets Studios,” he wrote on his blog. He also said, in his original blog post, that he is “devastated to have failed in my duty” to Henson.
If this is true, it would be a sad and alarming tale for Muppets fans. But Disney and Henson’s family are telling a very different story.
Disney representatives have cast Whitmire’s behavior differently, characterizing him to the Hollywood Reporter as routinely “overly hostile” and claiming a long history of “unacceptable business conduct” that “went on for many years."
The company’s official statement, sent to Vox via email, echoes this sentiment:
The role of Kermit the Frog is an iconic one that is beloved by fans and we take our responsibility to protect the integrity of that character very seriously. We raised concerns about Steve's repeated unacceptable business conduct over a period of many years and he consistently failed to address the feedback. The decision to part ways was a difficult one which was made in consultation with the Henson family and has their full support.
Meanwhile, the New York Times spoke to an unnamed producer on “a Muppets-related project” who generally corroborated Disney’s statement. Members of Henson’s own family, who sold all intellectual property rights to the Muppets to Disney in 2004, have been blunt about supporting the company’s version of events.
On Facebook, one of Henson’s daughters, Cheryl Henson, reportedly wrote that “Steve’s version of history is ridiculously self serving”:
My father never asked him to perform Kermit, my brother Brian did. Steve’s performance of Kermit has strayed far away from my father’s good hearted, compassionate leader of the Muppets. Steve performed Kermit as a bitter, angry, depressed, victim. Worst of all, in the past few years he had not been funny or fun. Recasting Kermit is long over due.
Stop with the pity party!
Let’s get back to [the] true spirit of Jim Henson’s Kermit!
Whitmire disputed Cheryl Henson’s claim on his blog, writing on July 19 that her father seemed to have chosen, but not named, a successor prior to his death.
Henson’s son Brian Henson also spoke out. In his own interview with the Hollywood Reporter, he stated that Whitmire would often “play brinkmanship” and make “outrageous demands” because he was Kermit — and that he probably should have replaced Kermit’s voice actor before selling the Muppets franchise to Disney.
"I have to say, in hindsight, I feel pretty guilty that I burdened Disney by not having recast Kermit at that point because I knew that it was going to be a real problem," Henson said. "And I have always offered that if they wanted to recast Kermit, I was all for it, and I would absolutely help. I am very glad we have done this now. I think the character is better served to remove this destructive energy around it."
Henson’s other daughter, Lisa Henson — who is the current president of the Jim Henson Company — confirmed to the New York Times that Whitmire “played brinkmanship.” She also said that he would refuse to appear for “B-level performances, such as a ribbon-cutting,” and that he was hostile to the idea of other people playing Kermit, noting that he refused to have an understudy and “blackballed young performers” by refusing to appear with them.
With so few details about what specifically Whitmire is alleged to have done, it’s hard to know how to read these allegations. Though a Disney representative sent the studio’s official statement to Vox, the representative declined to clarify whether Whitmire's accounts of the union dispute that influenced his dismissal are accurate. Representatives for Whitmire and SAG did not return Vox’s requests for comment.
Whitmire has continued to insist that he was never rude or inappropriate. “I didn’t yell, or call anyone names, or refuse to do my job,” he told the Hollywood Reporter. “I just gave lots of definitive notes via emails to this small group about character integrity and always tried to offer alternative solutions.”
But the issue of what is “appropriate” can get complicated when it involves a character like Kermit — because for most of the fictional frog’s “career,” Kermit and the actor who plays him have been one and the same.
It’s hard to overstate just how synonymous Whitmire and Kermit have become over the years. In fact, for a long time, Disney formally encouraged their interchangeability, blurring the line that marked where Kermit ended and Whitmire began.
In a 2015 Longreads profile of Whitmire, writer Jon Irwin recounts that in the buildup to the release of the 2011 film The Muppets, Disney wouldn’t actually allow journalists to interview Whitmire. Instead, they had to interview Kermit:
As part of the pre-launch media rush for 2011’s The Muppets, the first feature film since Disney bought the characters from The Jim Henson Company, journalist Steve Marsh wanted to interview Whitmire. Disney wouldn’t allow it. Instead, Marsh got to interview Kermit while Whitmire stood there, his hand answering questions his own mouth could not. Marsh snuck in a meta-query: “What are the differences between working with Jim and working with Steve?” Kermit answers: “Boy, it’s hard for me to tell. They both have very warm hands.”
That “inseparability” between Whitmire and the role he played is on full display in the following appearance by Whitmire at the Dragon Con fan convention in 2015. Whitmire was apparently scheduled to appear as himself, but he brought along Kermit. Throughout the Q&A session, it’s genuinely hard to know at times whether he’s answering as himself or in character as Kermit, or some unique combination of both:
Irwin noted in his Longreads profile that such a symbiosis between Kermit and his actor had always been a characteristic of Kermit’s, even when he was played by Henson:
In Brian Jay Jones’s extensive Jim Henson: The Biography, Jones writes, “The more Jim performed Kermit, the more the two of them seemed to become intertwined … it was becoming harder to tell where the frog ended and Jim began.”
But what happens when one is no longer with the other? The unfortunate truth is that Jim ended; now the frog would have to begin again. If Kermit was Jim, who, then, is Steve?
It seems clear that from Whitmire’s perspective, Henson intended this interdependent relationship between frog and actor to be a feature, a positive thing for the character of Kermit. In fact, he noted as much in a July 18 blog post in which he recalled Henson’s horror at the prospect that Disney might view the voice actors behind a character as interchangeable and easily replaced.
During discussions between Disney and the Jim Henson Company in 1989, a merger that fell through after Henson’s death the next year, the following encounter, according to Whitmire, took place between Henson and several Disney executives:
It was Jim’s desire that Disney use his chosen performers to continue with the characters, and I was witness to a comment from an executive who chided Jim to his face, saying ‘That’s not how we do business. If Mickey-1 won’t do it for what we offer, then we move on to Mickey-2, and keep going down the line until somebody will do it for our price. ...’ Jim looked horrified.
Given this context, it is perhaps significant that when asked to perform imitations by an audience member at Whitmire’s 2015 Dragon Con appearance, “Kermit” chose to imitate a Muppet named Constantine.
Constantine appears in the 2014 movie Muppets Most Wanted as a Kermit impostor. The villain of the film, he successfully kidnaps and replaces Kermit just in time for Kermit’s wedding to Miss Piggy, prompting a climactic wedding scene in which she has to try to tell the two of them apart:
The voice actor who plays Constantine in the film is, ironically, Whitmire’s eventual replacement for the role of Kermit, Matt Vogel. Given Lisa Henson’s comments to the New York Times that Whitmire was hostile to the idea of understudies and to younger puppeteers, the scene takes on an eerie meta-quality: It’s almost as if the film, by teasing Kermit’s potential interchangeability, is foreshadowing the replacement of Whitmire.
But among Muppet fans, the idea that Kermit is only his voice won’t be an easy sell. Comments sections across the internet are littered with fans arguing over whether Jim Henson is the only true Kermit, or whether the character’s voice is truly the only thing that matters. Such comments have persisted since Whitmire took over the role, and videos comparing Whitmire’s and Henson’s voices have thousands of views on YouTube.
“As a puppeteer myself, I've never had more admiration for any performer than I have for Steve Whitmire,” wrote one Muppets fan on Reddit after the news of Whitmire’s firing broke. “Whitmire's performance of Kermit is what separates [Kermit] from being Kermit and being a stand in. ... Steve Whitmire's name might not be household the way Jim Henson is, but to me and a lot of puppeteers he'll be an icon forever.”
One of those other puppeteers is the new voice of Kermit, Vogel, who reportedly grew up watching Sesame Street and was inspired by the show and Henson’s work on it to make puppeteering his career. Whitmire has clearly personally identified with Kermit for most of his life, but he’s certainly not the only person involved with the Muppets who feels a deep connection to them.
And that’s a sign that no matter what happened behind the scenes, and no matter how heartbroken people might feel for Whitmire, Disney’s apparent approach to Kermit — the belief that as a character, Kermit is much larger than the person who voices and operates him — is ultimately probably the right one.
Cheryl Henson’s characterization of Whitmire as playing Kermit as “a bitter, angry, depressed victim” may have been partly a reaction to the decisions of Muppets writers in recent years, particularly on the failed 2015 TV series, which overtly portrayed Kermit as, in the words of Vox’s own critic at large Todd VanDerWerff, “a huge dick.” These are the kinds of decisions Whitmire might be referring to when he talks about giving notes on the character prior to his ousting — indeed, the Kermit problem seemed to have affected the entire ensemble during The Muppets.
The Muppets have always walked a thin line between sadness and silliness, and it seems likely that Kermit’s personality changes on the TV show were part of its attempt to make the Muppets more explicitly targeted to adults. It’s certainly tempting to assume that Disney’s decision to cast a less outspoken actor in the role of Kermit is a result of that failed endeavor. But with no major new projects on the horizon for the Muppets, it’s unclear what immediate effects, if any, the actor change will have.
In the meantime, for Kermit, at least, only one thing seems to remain eternal: It’s not easy being green.
As a music critic, he admired R. Kelly.
In November 2000, Jim DeRogatis reviewed R. Kelly's No. 1 Billboard album, TP-2.com, for the Chicago Sun-Times. He had been covering Kelly's music for years. "I had interviewed him the morning the Grammys were announced and had covered his rise from singing on the subway platform and at backyard barbecues to becoming the dominant force of R&B in the late ’90s — and still to this day, arguably," DeRogatis told me.
But something in the review — which, again, emphasized Kelly's vacillation "between the sacred and the profane" — caused someone (later determined to be Kelly's assistant) to tip off the rock critic about Kelly’s transgressions. DeRogatis received an anonymous fax claiming that the star had been accused of sex crimes by underage women.
The tip spurred an investigation into Kelly's past that has produced a litany of horrific allegations — from his marriage to R&B singer Aaliyah when she was 15 years old to dozens of stories and lawsuits involving sex with underage girls and child pornography.
And now, according to DeRogatis's new BuzzFeed investigation, Kelly is allegedly keeping six women in a sex “cult.” Kelly, according to Cheryl Mack, Kitti Jones, and Asante McGee, former members of Kelly’s inner circle, controls everything from the women’s use of phones to what they wear and what they eat. And the parents of these young women, unable to reach their daughters, are terrified about what is happening behind closed doors.
I spoke to DeRogatis — veteran rock critic, author of several books, including Let It Blurt: The Life and Times of Lester Bangs, America’s Greatest Rock Critic, and co-host of Sound Opinions from WBEZ Chicago — about his nearly 20 years of reporting on Kelly, the scale of the allegations against the R&B star and how he sees him as profiting off his image as a predator.
Our conversation has been condensed and edited for clarity.
Stories about Kelly's transgressions have been coming out for 17 years — why have they remained under the radar for so long?
The thing that makes me sick to my stomach is it's impossible, in Chicago, to walk three or four blocks in the music communities of the South and West Side and not find ten people who have stories about R. Kelly, or their cousin has a story about him, or their sister. Why on earth isn't there more reporting forwarding the story?
You received an anonymous fax in 2000 from someone who urged you to look into his problem with "young girls." What happened when you saw that?
I will confess to you that I took that fax and I threw it on the corner of my desk. I thought, "Player hater." But something about these facts bothered me. It mentioned the Chicago sex crimes unit, and it named the head investigator. I called the PD and asked for her. I said, "I'm wondering about R. Kelly." She said, "Oh. It's about time somebody finally called about this. I can't talk to you." And hung up.
Anyway, we found this lawsuit by a young Chicago woman who claimed that Kelly picked her up when he came to give a lecture to his alma mater choir class at Kenwood Academy. The allegations were horrifying — mainly that Kelly had had sex with her at 14. That he'd arranged threesomes with some of her fellow sophomores. And that when the relationship ended, when she was two years older, she had slit her wrists and tried to kill herself. This lawsuit had never been reported.
We found other lawsuits. We got documents slipped to us that had been sealed in Michigan, when Kelly's marriage to Aaliyah was annulled. We proved that Aaliyah was, in fact, 15 at the time, and that the certificate of marriage had been falsified to say she was 18.
And then there was the sex tape that Kelly was eventually tried for on charges of child pornography.
Yes, around Thanksgiving the following year, 2001, the 26-minute, 39-second videotape that prosecutors allege shows him having sex with a 14-year-old and urinating in her mouth came to me. The Chicago Sun-Times turned it over to the police.
He was indicted for making child pornography. A really important distinction — that so many of my sloppy fellow journalists do not get right — is he was never tried for statutory rape for sex with minors. He was tried for making child pornography, which never made much sense to any of us. Why are you not also charging him with sex with a child?
The answer is the parents and the girl never cooperated with the police and did not testify in the trial. Three dozen witnesses did: her aunt, family members, pastor, best friends, best friends' parents, basketball coach, you name it. They all said this was the girl and that was her age. But because there was no victim — and this is classic rape culture — there was no crime.
Nothing was ever introduced in court of the dozen-plus civil settlements in which [Kelly] had paid off young women who had either filed lawsuits or had directly accused him before they even filed. Instead of a pattern of a long period of behavior, it was about one girl and one videotape. That was how he was acquitted.
How has this story impacted you, personally and professionally?
It's not something I've wanted to live with for 17 years, that's for sure. If you're a serious journalist, whatever story you're working on, you have to do it 100 percent and you don't let it go until it's done. Especially not when people are being hurt.
Right now it's entirely possible that a foreign country interfered with the democratic process and our election process. Thank God for the Washington Post and the New York Times and the reporting that's being done. And young women are allegedly in peril, being mistreated, physically and mentally abused, today, at a recording studio half a block away from Union Park in Chicago, where Kelly was hired by Pitchfork to headline their music festival in 2013.
Either way, whatever your story is, even if it's a crooked city councilman in Gary, Indiana, you're not a journalist if you don't stay on the story. I've never seen it like I had a choice.
Why have these allegations and the child pornography charge failed to result in convictions?
Look up the FBI statistics for sexual assault. This is rape culture. It's horrifying. So many women are reluctant to come forward because they know what the process of getting justice is like. The number of women who actually file is a fraction of the number of women who are assaulted. For those who file, the number of arrests is a small fraction of those who filed. And something like 90 percent of sexual assault arrests, according to the FBI, never see a conviction.
Number two, I've said it often, and I'm paraphrasing Malcolm X by way of Mark Anthony Neal, a great African-American scholar. "Nobody matters less in society than young black women." What Neal has said is if it was one white girl from the suburbs, this may have been a different story.
There are many great artists who have been abusive, yet we still consume their work. Where do you see the line here?
We do not want to believe the worst of an artist whose work we admire. Gauguin, by all accounts, was a son of a bitch as a husband, a father, and just the way he treated women in general. But the art, I think, doesn’t reflect that.
I think 99.9 percent of the time, separating the art from the artist is a valid argument, philosophically. But when the art is about the misdeeds that the artist is accused of, that's impossible to do. I think that's the case with R. Kelly. I can watch and love "Midnight in Paris." But I can't watch "Manhattan" — not after reading about what Woody Allen's stepdaughter has accused him of. That's a film about a really old guy dating a high schooler.
There's a history of bad behavior and mistreatment of women in music industry. Where does this story fit in?
This is a trail, two and a half decades long, of dozens of young African-American women whose lives have been ruined by R. Kelly. This is not Jerry Lee Lewis marrying his cousin or Elvis and Priscilla, or Jimmy Page of Led Zeppelin and Lori Maddox. This is different. It is a horrifying document of a rape in real time. The women who have talked to me on the record, describing the living conditions in Kelly's "cult" — their word — allegedly. It's horrifying.
There's Jimmy Savile from the BBC, and Gary Glitter. And there are a handful — and I'm not an expert on those cases — of others. But I don't think the number of victims came anywhere near approaching those alleged victims of Kelly. So that makes it a little more hard to understand how Live Nation and RCA Records and The Tonight Show With Jimmy Fallon and Lady Gaga and Alexander Wang's fashion line and entertainment dollars can co-sign this man.
Has it been a lonely journey for you?
I've shared bylines with Abdon M. Pallasch in the Chicago Sun-Times. And Mary Mitchell wrote a column the other day about these new allegations. You know, there have been journalists, like the one in Jezebel last week, who forwarded the story.
But the fact that in over 17 years, citing, like, three examples, the Chicago Tribune has never done anything to forward this story. The Los Angeles Times has never done anything to forward this story. They are, of course, the best newspapers in America in this sector of the media, of the entertainment industry. Very few music publications have ever done anything to forward this story, and, like I said, there are a number of sources in Chicago who are eager to tell it.
Do you worry that even after your BuzzFeed article came out, people will still ignore what's happening?
I think the ability of the internet today to spread a story so far and wide — BuzzFeed has almost never seen anything like this, they've told me — is different. But whether that results in real action, whether it results in getting these women home, these daughters home to their parents, whether it results in any impact on Kelly’s career, I don't know.
TMZ recently released a video interview with Jocelyn (Joy) Savage, one of Kelly's alleged victims, claiming she's "totally fine." What do you make of it?
Joy's mother and father said from day one she's going to deny that she's being held against her will. The parents don't believe that what she's saying is sincere, that she's being coached. They keep using the words “Stockholm syndrome.”
You know, the Savages shared texts that Joy had sent to her grandmother where she said the same thing. You know, "Stop all this noise you're making, Mom and Dad, because I'm where I want to be, you're just trying to hurt R. Kelly's career, and that hurts me." I don't think that's surprising at all. She also was questioned, even TMZ noted this, "Where are you," and she wouldn't answer, and, "Can you leave?" and she wouldn't answer.
It's super creepy.
Can you talk about the reactions you've had to your reporting?
Some people are saying why am I still on R. Kelly's dick — you know, in the charming language of the Twitterverse. But I gotta say, I think it's been about 95 percent positive to 5 percent of that old BS. I think there has been a zeitgeist shift since earlier R. Kelly stories.
But it's never been an easy story to report, and certainly my interactions with the Kelly camp were a little harrowing.
Who holds responsibility here? The justice system? Record labels? Music consumers?
The legal system failed. I think journalism failed, I think the entertainment industry failed, and I think fans fail if they are made aware of alleged mistreatment of women.
You've spent so much time one on one with parents and victims. Can you talk about any particular moment that really stood out for you personally?
Well, I had members of Aaliyah's family crying on my shoulder. And I sat with one of the young women who tried to hurt herself after her relationship with Kelly ended. And I've talked to the parents in Florida and Georgia for nine months now.
This is a story, and I'm a professional and I'm objective and I've verified everything they told me. But these are human beings, and the stories they told me and that BuzzFeed verified and published are really disturbing. It's a disturbing aspect when people say, "Well, how could any parent ever let their kid get near R. Kelly?" And it's like, "Well, you've never made a mistake in your life? Really?" The parents now say it's the biggest mistake they ever made. And again, I think journalism is partly to blame. He was tried and acquitted, but they were nowhere near aware of everything in the 17-year history that we've reported.
How are the parents and families coping with being unable to contact their children?
They're overwhelmed by the attention and the stress of it all. They're feeling lost and confused. The main thing is that their daughters aren't home yet.
Hope Reese is a staff writer for TechRepublic (a division of CBS Interactive) based in Louisville, Kentucky. Find her on Twitter @hope_reese.
Wonder Woman had a big weekend at San Diego Comic-Con: Wonder Woman 2 was officially announced, and the newly unfurled Justice League trailer also heavily featured the character. But the DC hero had an even bigger weekend at the box office, where she claimed a big new sales record — and continues to rewrite common knowledge about what audiences want from their movies.
After smashing opening-weekend box office records in June, beating Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice and Suicide Squad in second-weekend sales and becoming the biggest live-action film directed by a woman, Patty Jenkins’s Wonder Woman took another title this weekend: It surpassed Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 to become the highest-grossing movie of the summer at the domestic box office, taking in almost $390 million in ticket sales domestically.
That’s a huge showing for any movie, and downright fantastic for a movie about a female superhero that’s directed by a woman, two characteristics that, until recently, were assumed to underperform at the box office.
Related
Wonder Woman’s domestic gross handily beats last year’s Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice ($330 million) and Suicide Squad ($325 million). And while it hasn’t yet overtaken those two films’ international sales (or Guardians’, for that matter), its overall gross thus far ($780 million) already outpaces Suicide Squad’s $745 million total and is edging up on Batman v Superman’s $873 million. Last week, Wonder Woman passed the final Harry Potter installment to become Warner Bros.’ third-biggest release of all time, behind Christopher Nolan’s The Dark Knight and The Dark Knight Rises.
Incidentally, Nolan had a big weekend too, with his Dunkirk raking in about $50.5 million, 20 percent more than was projected — helped along in part by strong IMAX ticket sales and positive reactions from both critics and audiences. And with about $30 million, the well-reviewed Girls Trip had the biggest opening weekend for a comedy so far this year, and an even higher Cinemascore (a common barometer of opening-weekend audience reactions) than Dunkirk: Girls Trip earned an A+, while Dunkirk garnered an A-. (Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets, despite counting Rihanna among its cast, only earned $15 million against its $150 million production budget, and is on track to be a flop.)
All of these box office numbers run against expectations in one way or another, which is becoming a trend in 2017. Wonder Woman was considered a bit of a risk because of its woman-centric story and its director, Patty Jenkins; studios rarely hand big-budget tentpole films to female directors. As a historical war film, Dunkirk was expected to do well, but its director’s name recognition, excellent reviews, and a noteworthy cast (including, importantly, One Direction’s Harry Styles) helped propel it over expectations. And Girls Trip is a comedy starring four black women, which Hollywood usually considers a “niche” film — but its opening week number are far from “niche.”
Whether this expectations-defying trend will continue is anyone’s guess. But it’s starting to look like the summer of 2017 will be remembered as, if not a total game changer, the year the groundwork was laid for a new “Hollywood wisdom.”
Back in the second episode of Game of Thrones’ very first season, Arya Stark was forced to say goodbye to her direwolf, Nymeria.
And now, six full seasons later, they’ve finally met again.
Their reunion in “Stormborn” is a reward for Thrones fans who’ve been watching all the way since the beginning. We haven’t seen or heard anything about Nymeria since back in 2011, and now the show has at long last tied up this loose thread.
But contrary to some hopes, Nymeria’s return seems to be a curtain call rather than a reintroduction of the direwolf as a recurring presence. Arya asked Nymeria to return north with her, but recognized that her direwolf — now absolutely enormous, and leading a large wolfpack — had changed.
So in the end, Nymeria decided to roam free with her pack rather than staying with Arya. And according to showrunner D.B. Weiss in the “Inside the Episode” segment, Arya’s final words to Nymeria, “That’s not you,” are a reference to something she herself told her father back in season one. (When Ned said she’d grow up to be a lady, Arya said, “That’s not me.”)
George R.R. Martin’s books, meanwhile, have been handling this subplot very differently. Though Arya and Nymeria have not yet met again in person and it’s unclear if they ever will, the book version of Arya has developed similar magical “warging” powers to those of Bran, and has been warging into Nymeria from afar for the past few books. So in a way, the pair has been closer than ever.
The TV show’s adaptation of the storyline is of a piece with the way it has generally downplayed the Stark direwolves. Partly due to technical special effects limitations and partly due to what seems to be a desire to not overuse magic, Game of Thrones has shunted the wolves, who are omnipresent in the book series, to the side.
Nymeria was among the pack of direwolf cubs the Starks discovered and adopted as pets back in Game of Thrones’ very first episode. There were six, one for each of the Stark children.
Arya named hers after an ancient warrior queen. They were a cute pair initially, with Arya unsuccessfully attempting to train Nymeria to help her pack her clothes.
And then Prince Joffrey had to ruin everything.
When Ned Stark journeyed south to serve as King Robert Baratheon’s Hand in the series’ second episode, he brought Arya, Sansa, and their two direwolves with him. They traveled together with the king’s party, which included Queen Cersei and Prince Joffrey.
While the wagon train was stopped one day, Arya was practicing swordplay by fake dueling with sticks against Mycah, the redheaded son of a butcher. Joffrey saw them and pulled his first dreadful power play of the series, demanding that Mycah try practicing against him — while Joffrey wielded a real sword.
The prince pressed his sword against Mycah’s cheek and drew blood, and Arya fought back, striking Joffrey with her stick. Joffrey attempted to fight back with his sword, but Nymeria jumped on him and sank her teeth into his arm.
Nymeria had wounded a prince, drawing royal blood, so Arya knew the Lannisters would never let the animal live. She decided that to save Nymeria’s life, she had to send Nymeria away — and threw rocks at her so she’d run off in a sad scene.
Since then, the Stark direwolves have died, one by one:
Now only Nymeria and Jon’s white direwolf Ghost remain. And while anything could happen in season eight, Arya and Nymeria’s reunion scene in “Stormborn” sure felt like it would be the last time we’ll see Nymeria, who will go on living her best life in the woods of the Riverlands.
The direwolves are an integral part of Martin’s book series. The Starks who still have their wolves are rarely seen without them. And importantly, the book versions of Bran, Jon, and Arya all seem to have some form of warging ability (the power to enter their wolves’ minds).
This power is most fully developed in Bran, but Jon and Arya see through their wolves’ eyes and perhaps even direct their wolves’ actions when they dream. Arya in particular rather disturbingly dreams of killing and eating people as Nymeria, who (as in the show) is now heading a large pack of wolves.
But the HBO adaptation has gone in a very different direction. Though the series showed a lot of the wolves in season one, their appearances have been noticeably rare in later seasons, with two being brought back in season six only to be unceremoniously killed off.
That’s no accident. Game of Thrones has found that now that the direwolves are big enough that they have to be CGI creations, they’re very expensive and difficult to animate. (They seem to have been much more challenging than the dragons, perhaps because it’s more difficult to convincingly animate an animal that we expect to look and move like a real wolf.)
For instance, the original script for last year’s bravura “Battle of the Bastards” episode featured Ghost fighting at Jon Snow’s side throughout the battle — but Game of Thrones’ creative team concluded it would be too expensive to heavily feature both a wolf and a giant in the same fight.
"[Ghost] was in there in spades originally, but it’s also an incredibly time consuming and expensive character to bring to life," the episode's directo, Miguel Sapochnik, told Business Insider last year. “Ultimately we had to choose between Wun Wun and the direwolf, so the dog bit the dust.”
Showrunners David Benioff and D.B. Weiss also decided to make Bran the only Stark child with magical warg powers (so far), and have never introduced any wolf dreams for Jon or Arya. I’d speculate that this change was motivated by a desire not to overuse magic, and to focus on the other aspects of Jon and Arya’s storylines.
All of this is to say that the somewhat underwhelming and anticlimactic role of the direwolves in the TV adaptation of Game of Thrones could turn out to be quite different in the books, which are not constrained by budgeting or special effects concerns. But until Martin finishes writing them, we’ll never know what that fate may be.

This week is the geek pop culture equivalent of the day before your birthday and also Christmas/Hanukkah/your gift-giving holiday of choice. It’s the week of San Diego Comic-Con, a.k.a. when all the trailers for the movies and TV shows you most want to see start to come out, whetting your appetite … and then crushing you with the realization of how long you’ll have to wait before you can actually experience them.
For your convenience, we’ve collected all the most important trailers of the Con here, so you can get all of your torturous anticipation in one convenient place. Here’s what to look forward to:
Thor: Ragnarok has everything you could want in a Thor movie: Loki, Tessa Thompson, and Cate Blanchett assuming what is doubtless her true form as a goddess of death. Plus, judging from this trailer, the Hulk has picked up some new vocabulary, and Thor himself gets off a few decent zingers as well.
Related
DC’s planning to give Marvel’s Avengers a run for their money with Justice League. This is the third trailer they’ve released so far, this time with an early glimpse of the villain and plenty of screen time for record-breaking champion of the box office Wonder Woman.
Related
Steven Spielberg’s latest, based on the novel by Ernie Cline, takes place in a future where dispossessed youth can only find meaning in virtual reality. The new trailer is highly referential — see how many pop culture Easter eggs you can spot in just two minutes — and guarantees as many high-speed chase scenes as can fit into a single action movie.
The latest outing from the franchise that brought you The LEGO Movie and The Lego Batman Movie promises LEGO dragons, a training montage, and a really cute cat.
That surprisingly charming little 2014 action flick gets a sequel, this time with bonus Channing Tatum and a lasso. This is the red band trailer: super violent (not gory, but potentially NSFW), and super fun.
Another sequel, this one to the beloved 2013 robot action movie Pacific Rim. John Boyega plays the son of Idris Elba’s character, and whether that casting move is an upgrade or a downgrade must be decided entirely by you.
This melancholy little charmer was one of the big hits of the Sundance Film Festival, and the trailer offers a glimpse into why. People who have seen the movie will tell you this trailer is absurdly spoiler-ridden, but I (who have not) only learned that I will certainly see this movie, and it will certainly make me cry.
Netflix doubles down on its commitment to developing original movies with this Will Smith vehicle. Smith is a hardboiled cop just trying to get through another day on the job; also, there are fairies. Sure.
Peter Capaldi’s last episode will see him joining forces with David Bradley’s take on William Hartnell’s First Doctor in a Christmas special that’s sure to be all sorts of timey-wimey — and that will set the stage for Jodie Whittaker to make history as the first female Doctor.
Related
In its second season, Westworld promises to include Jeffrey Wright standing over a dead tiger and Evan Rachel Wood gleefully shooting a gun while on horseback, and all our lives are a little richer for it.
It looks like Will is still feeling the effects of his time in the Upside Down, and Eleven isn’t in the safest of places since she disappeared at the end of last season. But in happier news, the kids seem to have discovered and fallen in love with Ghostbusters.
Related
Teen Wolf is approaching its final episodes, which apparently will kick off with some random stabbing of Liam in the hand with a pen. (Hey, I get the impulse.) No sign here of fan favorites Stiles and Derek, but the producers have confirmed that they’ll be returning, and they appeared briefly in a previous promo.
Star Trek: Discovery may have lost showrunner Bryan Fuller, but this trailer — which teases a conflict with a resurgent Klingon Empire — promises a visual flair all its own, with some truly gorgeous effects.
Related
Marvel’s small-screen answer to The Avengers — featuring Daredevil, Jessica Jones, Luke Cage, and Iron Fist on a single team — is one of the most hotly anticipated shows of the year. If you are like me, you are anticipating it mostly for because you want to see Jessica Jones side-eying everyone else, and if so, this trailer will bring you joy. Plus, there’s some A+ Sigourney Weaver villain monologuing.
Disney XD’s reboot of the beloved ‘80s cartoon features Doctor Who’s David Tennant as the world-weary Scrooge McDuck, off to continue making his fortune with his many nephews. The trailer sees him setting off for the lost city of Atlantis, sure to make it there in no more than 16 hours. What could go wrong?
Fox’s upcoming X-Men TV show has a cast full of already beloved actors from cult favorite shows: Amy Acker of Angel and Person of Interest, looking uncharacteristically blonde; Bunheads’ Emma Dumont (she was Melanie, the tall one); Stephen Moyer, better known as Trueblood’s vampire Bill; Sean Teale of Reign and Skins; and Jamie Chung, who was Mulan on Once Upon a Time. We’ll have to see if The Gifted — which premieres October 2 — is worthy of so many hard-hitters.
Fear the Walking Dead is promising a water crisis, someone getting stabbed in the eye, plus ominous murmurings about how some must die so that others must live. That’s never a good sign.
Most of this trailer is an extended tribute to The CW’s extended DC comic book universe, but you do catch a glimpse of the forthcoming superhero Black Lightning, in full costume with lightning blazing.
Premiering September 1 in IMAX theaters — and then September 29 on ABC — the latest addition to Marvel’s ever-expanding television portfolio will focus on the Inhuman Royal Family. Come for the fight scenes, stay for the giant teleporting bulldog named Lockjaw.
This Syfy series, slated to premiere next year, is a Superman prequel set 200 years before the destruction of the hero’s home planet. Few details are available beyond the fact that the show centers on the Man of Steel’s grandfather, Seg-El, as he “fights to redeem his family’s honor” — hence the teaser’s invitation to “discover the lineage of a legend.”
Here’s two and a half minutes of pure ‘90s nostalgia for you: Beloved Nickelodeon cartoon Rocko’s Modern Life is getting a TV movie next year. Judging from the trailer, Rocko and company have some pretty mixed feelings about our post-’90s world.
If your day was missing footage of a clown menacingly vomiting a column of bees at the camera, boy have you come to the right place! This season of American Horror Story allegedly ties into the election, but the two promos released thus far have only revealed circles of clowns making ominous gestures, a couple of blue-haired ladies, and oh yeah, those bees. (Rude.)
In The Walking Dead’s eighth season — premiering October 22 on AMC — many people will hold weapons and look sad. Also, Ezekiel’s tiger will be back! (Wouldn’t it be fun if The Walking Dead decided to get creative with the big cat by taking a cue from Zoo?)
Related
Game of Thrones has already begun airing its seventh season, but that’s not stopping it from releasing a “weeks ahead promo.” This one offers the sage advice that “every possible series of events is happening all at once.” Indeed.
Related
AMC’s Preacher, which has unexpectedly evolved into one of the best shows of the summer in its second season, promises to continue its winning streak in its new trailer: lots of comic book fighting, but through a witty, effortlessly likable filter.
Related
This early look at the new prequel entry to the Stargate franchise is just a teaser, so things are staying vague for the time being. Safe to say that some stuff happens in Egypt in the 1920s!
E.L. Konigsburg’s From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler is, like its close contemporary Harriet the Spy, one of those books that you can love as a small child that holds up astonishingly well to adult rereading.
Part of it is that the fantasy of the story is always compelling. The Mixed-Up Files tells the story of two children who run away from home to live in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and over the course of the book’s 50-year life — it’s celebrating its golden anniversary this year — it has instilled in multiple generations the deep desire to live in an art museum, surrounded by beauty and luxury. What could be better?
In celebration of the book’s 50th anniversary this year, the Met offered the next best thing: a tour of the highlights of the museum as experienced by the book’s protagonists, Claudia and Jamie Kincaid. The tour was technically meant for children ages 7 to 11, but earlier this month, I secured permission to tag along anyway and fulfill some childhood dreams.
Snobby, dreamy Claudia Kinkaid, who at 11 years old knows “she could never pull off the old-fashioned kind of running away,” decides to run away from her middle-class home in Greenwich, Connecticut, because she feels vaguely that she has too many chores, and also she is bored. But that’s not what The Mixed-Up Files is about. It’s about the way Claudia chooses to run away.
Claudia, who is truly a role model to any adult, combines relentless practicality with a romantic soul. She chooses the Met as her destination because it is beautiful, and she loves beauty, and because it is comfortable, and she worships comfort. She chooses to take her 9-year-old brother Jamie along because he is cheap, never spends his allowance, and cheats at cards, so he has amassed a fortune that will keep her in luxury. (Jamie’s life savings are $24.43 in 1967 dollars, which in 2017 dollars works out to the astonishing sum of $178.42.)
Claudia plans out every detail of the escape plan. She and Jamie run away on music lesson day so they have their musical instrument cases to pack extra clothes in; Jamie is instructed to hide his trumpet in the blanket at the foot of his bed to avoid suspicion. Once they get to the museum, she embarks on an ambitious program of self-improvement: She and Jamie are to learn everything there is to know about one gallery for every day they spend at the museum.
It’s here that the plot, such as it is, enters the picture. The Met has just acquired a statue of an angel for $225, and the curators suspect it might be a previously unknown work by Michelangelo. Claudia and Jamie become determined to prove that it is, and their quest for proof takes them, eventually, to the statue’s former owner. That owner turns out to be our narrator, the titular Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler, who also strikes me as a role model on rereading — perhaps because in her love of beauty, comfort, and practicality (her customary research outfit is a white lab coat and ornate pearl necklace) she resembles nothing so much as a grown-up Claudia.
But what is most memorable and evocative about the book is the details of Claudia and Jamie living in the museum: picking out an elaborate Elizabethan English bed to sleep in and then realizing with disappointment that it smells musty; hiding from their classmates in an Egyptian tomb; sneaking into the restaurant fountain at night to bathe. It’s enough to make anyone want to pack a trumpet case full of extra underwear and try their luck sneaking past the guards at the Met, alarms or no alarms.
The Met’s Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler tour begins where the Fountain Restaurant used to be, in what is currently a classical art gallery. The loss of this restaurant in the 1970s made more room for the museum to display its collection, which is a net good, but I have always experienced it as a minor tragedy because Konigsburg’s description of the Fountain Restaurant — accompanied in my edition by a full-spread two-page illustration — is so dreamy:
Now about the restaurant. It is built around a gigantic fountain. Water in the fountain is sprayed from dolphins sculptured in bronze. The dolphins appear to be leaping out of the water. One their backs are figures representing the arts, figures that look like water sprites. It is a joy to sit around that wonderful fountain and to snack petit fours and sip espresso coffee.
Claudia and Jamie themselves don’t lounge around the fountain eating cakes — Jamie’s strict budget would never allow for such a thing — but they bathe in it after hours, using powdered soap they pilfer from the restrooms and carry to the fountain in paper towels. And they find coins there, thrown in by hopeful wish makers; this is to become their major source of income during their time at the museum.
The gallery where the restaurant used to be is currently built around a much smaller, plainer fountain that has absolutely no dolphins or water sprites whatsoever, but I will grudgingly admit that the classical statuary on display there is very lovely.
The tour group was there to admire some sarcophagi, because Claudia hides her violin case in “a beautifully carved Roman marble sarcophagus.” Such is Konigsburg’s careful eye for detail that we know that Claudia’s sarcophagus had no lid, because the logistics of two small children wrestling with a heavy marble lid don’t bear thinking about, but Saturday’s tour spent most of its time in front of one of the lidded sarcophagi, “because I think it’s more fun,” our docent said cheerfully. Its carvings tell the story of Theseus and the minotaur, which probably was more fun for the children of the tour group to discuss than the elaborate battle scene of the lidless sarcophagus nearby would have been.
Next we whisked quickly past Marie Antoinette’s writing table, where Claudia yearns to sit and pretend to be Marie Antoinette, and onward towards The Bed. The Bed is the only bed in the Met that meets Claudia and Jamie’s exacting standards: with “a tall canopy, supported by an ornately carved headboard at one end and by two gigantic posts at the other,” for Claudia, who “had always known she was meant for such fine things,” and for Jamie, an explanatory sign describing the bed as the “scene of the alleged murder of Amy Robsart, first wife of Lord Robert Dudley.” I myself have never been able to set foot in the Met without going on a pilgrimage to look for The Bed, and I am not alone.
Tragically, the bed that the tour saw was not the authentic Bed. The Amy Robsart bed was sold years ago, and its closest equivalent is shut up in the English wing, currently closed for renovations. Meaning that the one we saw wasn’t even English, but a bastardized French equivalent that utterly failed to offer either giant footboard posts or rumors of murder. Whatever; it was fine.
For our final stop, the tour visited the marble statue of Cupid sculpted by a 15-year-old Michelangelo, currently on loan at the Met. (The only Michelangelo in the Met’s permanent collection right now is a sketch.) It’s the closest equivalent there is to the angel sculpture of the book, but that’s a piece that cannot really be approximated in real life. Konigsburg’s angel, “the most beautiful, most graceful little statue [Claudia] had ever seen,” is exactly as beautiful and mysterious and ethereal as the reader imagines it to be. Michelangelo’s Cupid, while undoubtedly lovely, is disappointingly solid and real in comparison.
But that doesn’t mean the tour was a waste of time. What’s magical about the Met in From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler isn’t so much the specific works of art that Claudia and Jamie see as it is the museum itself: enormous and beautiful and teeming with old and beautiful objects.
“More than a quarter of a million people come to that museum every week,” Konigsburg writes as Claudia and Jamie enter the Met. “They come from Mankato, Kansas, where they have no museums and from Paris, France, where they have lots. And they all enter free of charge because that’s what the museum is: great and large and wonderful and free to all. And complicated.”
Today the Met is only sort of free — there’s a suggested donation, so technically you can pay a penny to get in, but the sign would prefer you pay $25 — but if anything, the museum has only gotten bigger. One of the shocking things about the map our docent distributed of the Met in 1967 is how much of the current gallery space was given over to storage rooms back then. So while the art currently on display may not be an exact match for the art Claudia and Jamie saw, there is acres more of it now.
And 50 years later, it’s still great and wonderful and complicated, and — although the pedantic Claudia would despair at my grammar — well worth running away to. And so is From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler.
“Stormborn” is one of those Game of Thrones episodes where everybody talks a lot about what they’re going to do, but they don’t actually get around to doing most of it. It’s about setting the table for what’s to come.
This means it’s also one of those episodes where seemingly three weeks passes in every scene transition. Dany will order Tyrion to send a raven inviting Jon Snow to Dragonstone, and then in the very next scene, he’ll be reading that missive. To the show’s credit, it’s realized that we’re too late in the story for a lot of screwing around. But all of this implied momentum suggests the story is moving at a faster clip than it actually is.
“Stormborn” is also hurt, just a bit, by the way the show seems to be trying to conserve its budget for later in the season (about which more in a bit), which results in a giant sea battle that’s just a little hard to understand at some key moments.
All of this might sound like complaining, but it’s not. Episodes like this are necessary in the grand scheme of the show, but they do leave the viewers feeling as if they’ve watched an entire episode of things that are about to happen, rather than an episode of things happening. And yet because the show is so near to the end (by most accounts, there are just 11 episodes total left after this one), it gains a certain power from that proximity, lending greater weight to every choice made.
Here are eight winners and four losers from a good but mildly uneventful episode of Game of Thrones.
One of the biggest things that hurt Game of Thrones in its fourth and fifth seasons was that its story was spread so far and wide that it was all the series could do to check in on everybody in an episode, much less go back to someone facing a weighty choice. That led to incredibly decompressed storytelling, akin to a daytime soap opera, where characters would fret and stew about the same problem for weeks at a time, then eventually move one step forward in solving that problem.
In seasons six and seven, however, the series has figured out a way to hack that problem: It’s just collapsed a bunch of its stories into each other. Now when you check in on Dany, you’re also checking in on Tyrion and Olenna and Varys, etc., etc., etc. Thus, the series can keep going back to Dragonstone, and when it does a scene focused primarily on Missandei or Grey Worm, it’s nevertheless still spending time with Tyrion and the others.
This allows the show to feel like it’s moving forward much more quickly than it actually is. Pretty much all that’s happened this season is that characters have gotten places they were always going to go. But because they’re doing so in slightly new permutations and groupings with every new week, it feels like a lot is happening. It’s pretty crafty, and I’m impressed with how skillfully the show pulls it off.
Now, this is only a short-term setback, I imagine, especially since Team Dany is sending a bunch of her forces to try to take Casterly Rock. But Tyrion’s plan to strike King’s Landing with the Greyjoy fleet and the Dornish, while the others in Dany’s army complete their task, goes up in smoke because nobody was counting on Euron Greyjoy popping up out of the darkness.
Dany, apparently not having realized there are 11 episodes left, rather thinks that taking Westeros will be easy. Now, granted, she doesn’t know about the White Walkers just yet, but she also clearly underestimates the wiliness of Cersei, or the willingness of similarly desperate players to try to get on Cersei’s good side. The loss at sea is going to weigh heavily on Dany’s chances — especially since she seems to have also lost most of the Sand Snakes (making further reinforcements from Dorne less likely) — and will presumably buoy Cersei’s hopes.
All is not lost, and Dany has many more cards to play. But this is a tough way for things to turn out in the first major battle in whatever we’re going to call this new war. And perhaps the biggest loser of all on Dany’s side is...
The guy drops his sword and leaps over the side of a ship when Euron has Theon’s sister Yara in his clutches. I know the show is doing something about trauma with Theon, but dude, c’mon. It’s your sister. The fate of everything is at stake!
Euron promised Cersei a prize, and it appears that prize will be a good portion of Dany’s fleet. That should be more than enough to put the queen’s mind at ease as she heads into battle against a rival who has dragons.
She’s simultaneously preparing to battle back Daenerys with all of her other wily knowhow. Qyburn is putting together some sort of giant spear gun to take down the dragons. And even as Jaime seemed a little skeptical of her plans just last week, he’s nevertheless working hard to help keep people on her side in the battles to come. The big win over Dany’s side in the concluding battle should help shore up her relationships with, say, Randall Tarly and those who join him in having cold feet.
Granted, she’s once again signed up with the worst of the worst. Euron’s sneak attack involves a healthy dose of horrible, brutal death, implied rape, and pillaging, and it’s just more red ink on Cersei’s karmic ledger. But this is Game of Thrones, where karmic debts aren’t always paid, as surely as the Lannisters no longer pay their own debts. Cersei is still probably the ultimate loser of the show, but any time you count her out, you do so at your own peril.
Related
I don’t know that I’ve seen an episode of the show quite this cost-conscious in a long time.
Much of it was shot on existing sets, cutting between shots of the characters talking to each other. There were very few of the sweeping exteriors that have defined much of the series’ look. And even the big action sequence — that sea battle — was set at night (when it’s easier to get by with less impressive computer effects) and shot in a bunch of disorienting medium shots that also presumably kept the budget down. (My kingdom for a wide shot that just tells me what the hell is going on.)
This is a common TV trick when you know you’re going to be spending lots of money on a later episode. And considering that we should have some even bigger battles coming, it’s pretty clear why Game of Thrones held back just a little here. But the true winner is HBO’s coffers.
I can already tell I’m going to be in the minority on this, since the consensus of the rest of Vox’s Game of Thrones viewing club was that the battle at the end of the episode was pure bananas fun. But I found it largely incoherent, and shot and edited in a style that only enhanced how incoherent it was. Call me a spoilsport, if you must.
The problem here isn’t that director Mark Mylod goes wide so rarely, to let us see the full scope of the battle. It’s that the battle starts from a place that’s largely expected (there was no way we were cutting to the Greyjoys at sea without seeing Euron attack), then doesn’t bother to do anything interesting with the basic scenario. It’s largely a rout of the Daenerys Alliance, but the sequence does a poor job of setting up the geography and stakes of what’s happening.
By the time Euron gets the best of Yara in a swordfight, I was completely confused as to how and why any of it was happening. The cutting is so frenetic, and the camera angles so all over the place, that the simple flow of the battle gets lost in the murk. (This is where setting the battle at night actually hurts matters.)
There are definitely reasons to create so chaotic a sequence — it simulates the random horrors of battle, after all — but it’s also very, very hard to do in a way that simulates chaos while still keeping the audience up to speed. I can tell you the broad strokes of this battle, but few of the smaller moments that are supposed to add up to those broad strokes.
I’ve had this complaint about Game of Thrones action sequences before, but rarely does the show blow a sequence on a scale this large. And to be sure, it has some cool moments and shots (Euron landing on deck on his giant, toothed boarding rail; a giant missile whooshing right by Yara’s head). But the overall effect left me waiting for something a little more straightforward.
If you haven’t read Vox’s Dylan Matthews’s piece on just why Donald Trump’s presidency seems to be based so heavily around trolling, you should do so, because, amusingly, it also applies to Game of Thrones.
The reason so many are so slow to sign on to Team Dany — even Varys at one point in the past — is because her dad was so terrible that he’s scorched the earth for the name “Targaryen.” Dany could be the greatest ruler in existence, and her family name would always be a hindrance with everyone from Randall Tarly to Davos Seaworth. Cersei’s main play, in fact, isn’t to highlight her own good qualities but to scare everybody about what Dany’s bad qualities are — better the devil (or political alliance) you know.
It is, in short, negative partisanship, the idea that you act more against another party than you act for your own. And it applies in monarchies as well, apparently.
For a while there, it almost seemed as if this entire season in the North was going to be spent on Jon saying stuff to his gathered bannermen in the same damn room, while they initially grumbled at his decisions, then were won around via his beautiful speechifying. But thank God it’s not. That would have gotten boring very quickly.
Instead, Jon is off to meet with Dany, both to ask for all that dragonglass contained on Dragonstone and to weigh the possibility of an alliance with her. (She wants him to bend the knee to her; he’s not yet so sure.) And while he’s away, he’s going to put Sansa in charge of the North in his absence. He even beats up Littlefinger when the lech suggests he’s taken a romantic interest in Sansa!
Sansa will step aside when Jon comes back, but for now she’s in control, which is something she’ll probably be pretty good at. It also means that the leaders of all of the Seven Kingdoms’ most fearsome military powers are women — for the moment, at least. The series has been trending this way for a while, and this new choice should only play up its lady power vibes.
There’s something intensely gratifying about the way this season is making callbacks to old moments from the show, the way it’s pulling in all sorts of bits and pieces from its very earliest days. The line Tyrion uses at the end of his missive to Jon — meant to make the latter recall the two’s first meeting — feels all the more momentous for having the weight of years behind it.
This is something I love about television. When a moment is properly built to and nourished, it can feel monumental, no matter how tiny it is. If you’ve been watching this show since 2011, these callbacks are having that effect.
(Of course, the show feels the need to point out each and every single one of them, which gets it a few points taken off its final score. But other than that, it’s great!)
There are few reunions in the show that have been building for so long as that of Arya and Nymeria, her direwolf who was chased off into the woods all the way back in the show’s second episode. In the books, Nymeria has popped up a few other times with other characters, but in the show she’s mostly been a mystery.
Yet there she was, standing proud, majestic, and tall, above a pack of wolves. Arya recognizes her at once, and even if Nymeria isn’t quite there yet, you can see where these two will be destroying all of Arya’s enemies in an episode or two. (My colleague Andrew Prokop thinks this is the last we’ll see of Nymeria — and he may be right — but I just can’t imagine the show not at least bringing the big beast out one last time to save Arya in her moment of need.)
Related
This is another one of those great, momentous callbacks, and it might be the episode’s best, even if we only get a couple of real looks at Nymeria. (The show’s direwolf special effects have always been a bit dodgy — perhaps because it’s harder to make a creature from our reality look bigger than it is to just invent an animal out of whole cloth.)
It’s Hot Pie! He’s still around! He’s learning the ropes of the inn trade! He’s presumably the subject of one of those proposed Game of Thrones spinoffs, a Cheers-esque sitcom called Hot Pie’s Place!
He’s also passing along valuable information to Arya about the fate of the Boltons, then chuckling about how he can’t believe he ever thought she was a boy, because she’s pretty. He’s not the hero Westeros wants, but he just might be the hero Westeros needs
Hot Pie!
This makes two weeks in a row when the show has shrugged and simply gone for the gross-out moment. Weirdly, both have involved Sam.
Last week, he was scrubbing out chamberpots and the like. This week, he’s helping treat Jorah’s greyscale with an ancient remedy he found in a book somewhere, which involves peeling off some of the infection (and the pus-riddled grossness beneath) and then applying some sort of something to it. We don’t get to see it because the show immediately cuts to people eating, because it thinks that would be funny. (To be fair: It is, kind of.)
Here’s hoping you weren’t eating yourself when that scene popped up, or that if you were, your stomach wasn’t made uneasy at the sight of it. We’ll see if Game of Thrones makes this a three-episode trend next week.
Other winners: Jon Snow, for making decisions very quickly; the raven postal service, for continuing to make deliveries in a time of strife; Jim Broadbent, for delivering exposition with the best of them; Melisandre, for once again getting herself into the middle of something; Grey Worm and Missandei, for finding love in a hopeless place.
Other losers: The Sand Snakes, for obvious reasons; Littlefinger, for obvious reasons; Sam, for continuing to get stuck in the most disgusting situations; Varys, for almost certainly getting burned alive at some point in his future; the Game of Thrones cosplayers I saw at Comic-Con, for failing to recognize the sheer cosplay magic that is greyscale Jorah.
“Stormborn” is one of those Game of Thrones episodes where everybody talks a lot about what they’re going to do, but they don’t actually get around to doing most of it. It’s about setting the table for what’s to come.
This means it’s also one of those episodes where seemingly three weeks passes in every scene transition. Dany will order Tyrion to send a raven inviting Jon Snow to Dragonstone, and then in the very next scene, he’ll be reading that missive. To the show’s credit, it’s realized that we’re too late in the story for a lot of screwing around. But all of this implied momentum suggests the story is moving at a faster clip than it actually is.
“Stormborn” is also hurt, just a bit, by the way the show seems to be trying to conserve its budget for later in the season (about which more in a bit), which results in a giant sea battle that’s just a little hard to understand at some key moments.
All of this might sound like complaining, but it’s not. Episodes like this are necessary in the grand scheme of the show, but they do leave the viewers feeling as if they’ve watched an entire episode of things that are about to happen, rather than an episode of things happening. And yet because the show is so near to the end (by most accounts, there are just 11 episodes total left after this one), it gains a certain power from that proximity, lending greater weight to every choice made.
Here are eight winners and four losers from a good but mildly uneventful episode of Game of Thrones.
One of the biggest things that hurt Game of Thrones in its fourth and fifth seasons was that its story was spread so far and wide that it was all the series could do to check in on everybody in an episode, much less go back to someone facing a weighty choice. That led to incredibly decompressed storytelling, akin to a daytime soap opera, where characters would fret and stew about the same problem for weeks at a time, then eventually move one step forward in solving that problem.
In seasons six and seven, however, the series has figured out a way to hack that problem: It’s just collapsed a bunch of its stories into each other. Now when you check in on Dany, you’re also checking in on Tyrion and Olenna and Varys, etc., etc., etc. Thus, the series can keep going back to Dragonstone, and when it does a scene focused primarily on Missandei or Grey Worm, it’s nevertheless still spending time with Tyrion and the others.
This allows the show to feel like it’s moving forward much more quickly than it actually is. Pretty much all that’s happened this season is that characters have gotten places they were always going to go. But because they’re doing so in slightly new permutations and groupings with every new week, it feels like a lot is happening. It’s pretty crafty, and I’m impressed with how skillfully the show pulls it off.
Now, this is only a short-term setback, I imagine, especially since Team Dany is sending a bunch of her forces to try to take Casterly Rock. But Tyrion’s plan to strike King’s Landing with the Greyjoy fleet and the Dornish, while the others in Dany’s army complete their task, goes up in smoke because nobody was counting on Euron Greyjoy popping up out of the darkness.
Dany, apparently not having realized there are 11 episodes left, rather thinks that taking Westeros will be easy. Now, granted, she doesn’t know about the White Walkers just yet, but she also clearly underestimates the wiliness of Cersei, or the willingness of similarly desperate players to try to get on Cersei’s good side. The loss at sea is going to weigh heavily on Dany’s chances — especially since she seems to have also lost most of the Sand Snakes (making further reinforcements from Dorne less likely) — and will presumably buoy Cersei’s hopes.
All is not lost, and Dany has many more cards to play. But this is a tough way for things to turn out in the first major battle in whatever we’re going to call this new war. And perhaps the biggest loser of all on Dany’s side is...
The guy drops his sword and leaps over the side of a ship when Euron has Theon’s sister Yara in his clutches. I know the show is doing something about trauma with Theon, but dude, c’mon. It’s your sister. The fate of everything is at stake!
Euron promised Cersei a prize, and it appears that prize will be a good portion of Dany’s fleet. That should be more than enough to put the queen’s mind at ease as she heads into battle against a rival who has dragons.
She’s simultaneously preparing to battle back Daenerys with all of her other wily knowhow. Qyburn is putting together some sort of giant spear gun to take down the dragons. And even as Jaime seemed a little skeptical of her plans just last week, he’s nevertheless working hard to help keep people on her side in the battles to come. The big win over Dany’s side in the concluding battle should help shore up her relationships with, say, Randall Tarly and those who join him in having cold feet.
Granted, she’s once again signed up with the worst of the worst. Euron’s sneak attack involves a healthy dose of horrible, brutal death, implied rape, and pillaging, and it’s just more red ink on Cersei’s karmic ledger. But this is Game of Thrones, where karmic debts aren’t always paid, as surely as the Lannisters no longer pay their own debts. Cersei is still probably the ultimate loser of the show, but any time you count her out, you do so at your own peril.
Related
I don’t know that I’ve seen an episode of the show quite this cost-conscious in a long time.
Much of it was shot on existing sets, cutting between shots of the characters talking to each other. There were very few of the sweeping exteriors that have defined much of the series’ look. And even the big action sequence — that sea battle — was set at night (when it’s easier to get by with less impressive computer effects) and shot in a bunch of disorienting medium shots that also presumably kept the budget down. (My kingdom for a wide shot that just tells me what the hell is going on.)
This is a common TV trick when you know you’re going to be spending lots of money on a later episode. And considering that we should have some even bigger battles coming, it’s pretty clear why Game of Thrones held back just a little here. But the true winner is HBO’s coffers.
I can already tell I’m going to be in the minority on this, since the consensus of the rest of Vox’s Game of Thrones viewing club was that the battle at the end of the episode was pure bananas fun. But I found it largely incoherent, and shot and edited in a style that only enhanced how incoherent it was. Call me a spoilsport, if you must.
The problem here isn’t that director Mark Mylod goes wide so rarely, to let us see the full scope of the battle. It’s that the battle starts from a place that’s largely expected (there was no way we were cutting to the Greyjoys at sea without seeing Euron attack), then doesn’t bother to do anything interesting with the basic scenario. It’s largely a rout of the Daenerys Alliance, but the sequence does a poor job of setting up the geography and stakes of what’s happening.
By the time Euron gets the best of Yara in a swordfight, I was completely confused as to how and why any of it was happening. The cutting is so frenetic, and the camera angles so all over the place, that the simple flow of the battle gets lost in the murk. (This is where setting the battle at night actually hurts matters.)
There are definitely reasons to create so chaotic a sequence — it simulates the random horrors of battle, after all — but it’s also very, very hard to do in a way that simulates chaos while still keeping the audience up to speed. I can tell you the broad strokes of this battle, but few of the smaller moments that are supposed to add up to those broad strokes.
I’ve had this complaint about Game of Thrones action sequences before, but rarely does the show blow a sequence on a scale this large. And to be sure, it has some cool moments and shots (Euron landing on deck on his giant, toothed boarding rail; a giant missile whooshing right by Yara’s head). But the overall effect left me waiting for something a little more straightforward.
If you haven’t read Vox’s Dylan Matthews’s piece on just why Donald Trump’s presidency seems to be based so heavily around trolling, you should do so, because, amusingly, it also applies to Game of Thrones.
The reason so many are so slow to sign on to Team Dany — even Varys at one point in the past — is because her dad was so terrible that he’s scorched the earth for the name “Targaryen.” Dany could be the greatest ruler in existence, and her family name would always be a hindrance with everyone from Randall Tarly to Davos Seaworth. Cersei’s main play, in fact, isn’t to highlight her own good qualities but to scare everybody about what Dany’s bad qualities are — better the devil (or political alliance) you know.
It is, in short, negative partisanship, the idea that you act more against another party than you act for your own. And it applies in monarchies as well, apparently.
For a while there, it almost seemed as if this entire season in the North was going to be spent on Jon saying stuff to his gathered bannermen in the same damn room, while they initially grumbled at his decisions, then were won around via his beautiful speechifying. But thank God it’s not. That would have gotten boring very quickly.
Instead, Jon is off to meet with Dany, both to ask for all that dragonglass contained on Dragonstone and to weigh the possibility of an alliance with her. (She wants him to bend the knee to her; he’s not yet so sure.) And while he’s away, he’s going to put Sansa in charge of the North in his absence. He even beats up Littlefinger when the lech suggests he’s taken a romantic interest in Sansa!
Sansa will step aside when Jon comes back, but for now she’s in control, which is something she’ll probably be pretty good at. It also means that the leaders of all of the Seven Kingdoms’ most fearsome military powers are women — for the moment, at least. The series has been trending this way for a while, and this new choice should only play up its lady power vibes.
There’s something intensely gratifying about the way this season is making callbacks to old moments from the show, the way it’s pulling in all sorts of bits and pieces from its very earliest days. The line Tyrion uses at the end of his missive to Jon — meant to make the latter recall the two’s first meeting — feels all the more momentous for having the weight of years behind it.
This is something I love about television. When a moment is properly built to and nourished, it can feel monumental, no matter how tiny it is. If you’ve been watching this show since 2011, these callbacks are having that effect.
(Of course, the show feels the need to point out each and every single one of them, which gets it a few points taken off its final score. But other than that, it’s great!)
There are few reunions in the show that have been building for so long as that of Arya and Nymeria, her direwolf who was chased off into the woods all the way back in the show’s second episode. In the books, Nymeria has popped up a few other times with other characters, but in the show she’s mostly been a mystery.
Yet there she was, standing proud, majestic, and tall, above a pack of wolves. Arya recognizes her at once, and even if Nymeria isn’t quite there yet, you can see where these two will be destroying all of Arya’s enemies in an episode or two. (My colleague Andrew Prokop thinks this is the last we’ll see of Nymeria — and he may be right — but I just can’t imagine the show not at least bringing the big beast out one last time to save Arya in her moment of need.)
Related
This is another one of those great, momentous callbacks, and it might be the episode’s best, even if we only get a couple of real looks at Nymeria. (The show’s direwolf special effects have always been a bit dodgy — perhaps because it’s harder to make a creature from our reality look bigger than it is to just invent an animal out of whole cloth.)
It’s Hot Pie! He’s still around! He’s learning the ropes of the inn trade! He’s presumably the subject of one of those proposed Game of Thrones spinoffs, a Cheers-esque sitcom called Hot Pie’s Place!
He’s also passing along valuable information to Arya about the fate of the Boltons, then chuckling about how he can’t believe he ever thought she was a boy, because she’s pretty. He’s not the hero Westeros wants, but he just might be the hero Westeros needs
Hot Pie!
This makes two weeks in a row when the show has shrugged and simply gone for the gross-out moment. Weirdly, both have involved Sam.
Last week, he was scrubbing out chamberpots and the like. This week, he’s helping treat Jorah’s greyscale with an ancient remedy he found in a book somewhere, which involves peeling off some of the infection (and the pus-riddled grossness beneath) and then applying some sort of something to it. We don’t get to see it because the show immediately cuts to people eating, because it thinks that would be funny. (To be fair: It is, kind of.)
Here’s hoping you weren’t eating yourself when that scene popped up, or that if you were, your stomach wasn’t made uneasy at the sight of it. We’ll see if Game of Thrones makes this a three-episode trend next week.
Other winners: Jon Snow, for making decisions very quickly; the raven postal service, for continuing to make deliveries in a time of strife; Jim Broadbent, for delivering exposition with the best of them; Melisandre, for once again getting herself into the middle of something; Grey Worm and Missandei, for finding love in a hopeless place.
Other losers: The Sand Snakes, for obvious reasons; Littlefinger, for obvious reasons; Sam, for continuing to get stuck in the most disgusting situations; Varys, for almost certainly getting burned alive at some point in his future; the Game of Thrones cosplayers I saw at Comic-Con, for failing to recognize the sheer cosplay magic that is greyscale Jorah.
Christopher Nolan’s film Dunkirk runs along three parallel time tracks, and early in the film, those tracks are indicated by supertitles on the screen. One of those supertitles refers to “the mole.”
If you’re American but not much of a World War II or architectural buff, you may — like me — have assumed that “the mole” referred to one of the characters in the film. Besides the furry animal burrowing underground, most Americans think of a mole in terms of its second definition: “a spy who achieves over a long period an important position within the security defenses of a country.”
That definition seems to fit just fine in the context of Dunkirk, which takes place during WWII. But it turns out that’s not what the film intended with its use of the term “mole.”
The evacuation of British and French troops at Dunkirk was largely accomplished through the use of two long concrete jetties that protected the beach. The name of those structures? Moles. (The word has roots in middle French and Latin.)
During the Battle of Dunkirk, the harbor was rendered unusable by German bombing, and the big boats couldn’t get to the soldiers on the beach, which meant evacuation initially progressed very slowly. But then the Royal Navy Captain W.G. Tennant came up with the idea of evacuating the soldiers off the East Mole, which had deep water on each side of it.
And it worked brilliantly. In the end, only about a third of the soldiers were evacuated from the beach itself; about 200,000 were evacuated off the East Mole. If you visit Dunkirk today, you can walk on a concrete section of the mole, though the wooden part was lost in a storm in the 1970s.
This plan actually plays out in Dunkirk, and the commanding officers talk about it; one of the reasons they’re so desperate to move a sinking ship near the beginning of the film is that if it sank near the mole, big ships wouldn’t be able to get near it. But part of Dunkirk’s immersive experience means it’s actually a bit hard to make out what they’re discussing, especially if you don’t know military lingo — and especially if you’re an American also trying to decipher various British accents. (For many Americans, Dunkirk is unusual for being a WWII blockbuster with no American characters.)
The term isn’t used much in the United States, so many of the film’s American viewers  — or at least the ones who aren’t up on their WWII history — might not pick up on its meaning. But Nolan himself was more likely to be familiar with it even before the film: He was born in London to an American mother and an English father, and the family split their time between London and Evanston, Illinois. He has dual citizenship.
Meanwhile, one of the characters in that section of the film is under suspicion of being a spy. So if you (like me) didn’t realize what the term meant, you probably weren’t alone. It’s another remarkable part of the story of Dunkirk.
Thank you to the astute reader who emailed me to point out what the real “mole” is in Dunkirk.
As predicted, even with special shark-like swimming gear, Michael Phelps was no match for a great white shark in Discovery’s much-hyped “man versus shark” race that kicked off the network’s annual Shark Week.
Nor was Phelps any match for the internet’s reaction to the shark race.
When you know damn well he can't beat that shark. But you interested #SharkWeek pic.twitter.com/35LEfL9YZ3
Phelps vs. Shark: Great Gold vs. Great White premiered Sunday night as the main event of Shark Week. And although everyone pretty much knew that Phelps didn’t stand a chance, millions of viewers tuned in to see how it turned out — and many of them live-tweeted the experience.
For all the fanfare surrounding Discovery’s shark stunt, the concept was pretty simple: The network selected a 100-meter stretch of ocean in the Bahamas, had both the great white shark and the 28-time Olympic medalist swim the course, and compared their timed results. Though it was clear from interviews Phelps gave before the race that he wouldn’t actually be in the water with a shark, Discovery didn’t exactly advertise that part.
The network did its best to massively hype the race, including billing it as “the battle for ocean supremacy” and implying that Phelps was going to undergo some state-of-the-art transformations in order to have a chance of at least competing with the shark. Translation? He put on a swimming fin.
In order for @MichaelPhelps to beat a shark, he must become a shark. #PhelpsVsShark is TONIGHT at 8p on @Discovery #SharkWeek pic.twitter.com/1YjtRoEvGz
It's not lookin' good, Phelps pic.twitter.com/SzuUhzhGiU
The actual hour-long broadcast of Phelps vs. Shark included Phelps simulating 50-meter races against two other varieties of shark in order to “prepare” for the race. Surprisingly enough, he actually beat one of them, besting a reef shark with a time of 18.7 seconds.
MICHAEL PHELPS IS FASTER THAN A REEF SHARK pic.twitter.com/4fPqYYLgBR
He had nothing on the hammerhead he practiced against, however, which beat him handily with a time of 15.1 seconds.
Meanwhile, the simple fact that Phelps would officially be competing against a great white — rather than the fastest known shark on the planet, the Mako — inspired a few complaints:
Fastest swimming human @MichaelPhelps should be racing fastest swimming #shark, which is the MAKO, not GREAT WHITE! #SharkWeek #PhelpsVShark pic.twitter.com/S3yFbltBIb
When it came time for the main event, the production team behind Phelps vs. Shark filmed an actual great white shark swimming in the specific 100-meter stretch of ocean designated for the “race.” So how did they manage that? Enter this brave guy on a floating bike thing, dragging along a decoy of a swimming seal to lure the shark along the designated track.
Don't do this at home. #SharkWeek pic.twitter.com/hgOF0905aq
Umm can we talk about the guy on the floating bike right next to the shark without any life vest?! #SharkWeek
For most of the broadcast leading up to Phelps’s big moment, viewers at home tweeted their reactions — a mix of eagerness, eye rolling, and derision. In other words, it was a typical evening on the internet.
Michael Phelps - I'm not racing in 2020 in Tokyo, I'm retired Also Michael Phelps - I'm so bored in retirement I'm gonna race a shark pic.twitter.com/U7EZO6LPCi
Everyone is waiting for McGregor &Mayweather. I'm all like I want to see @MichaelPhelps race a shark! #SharkWeek #SharkWeek2017 pic.twitter.com/83gc6f0dIk
Watching #PhelpsVsShark, with a dog dressed as a shark, while wearing shark socks. Excitement is real. #SaveSharks #SharkWeek @SharkWeek pic.twitter.com/D6PH35SiGS
As the clock ticked toward the final showdown, Phelps’s famous “game face” from the Rio Olympics made quite a repeat appearance on Twitter.
Let's do this. #PhelpsvsShark pic.twitter.com/pnBjCFB1is
Reporter: Why were you so mad?Phelps: Someone said I couldn't beat a shark in a race #SharkWeek pic.twitter.com/9EkBLTO18p
Realizing we gotta get through an hour of science for this actual race.#PhelpsVsShark pic.twitter.com/TLtBco3zG8
And inevitably, there came the ultimate disappointment as people began to realize that Phelps was not actually racing in the water next to a real shark:
THERE'S NOT ACTUALLY GOING TO BE A SHARK NEXT TO HIM I QUIT IT'S ALL BEEN A LIE. #sharkweek #michaelphelps
When you find out that Michael Phelps isn't actually racing an actual shark pic.twitter.com/6KwHGaWXc9
Michael Phelps not PHYSICALLY racing a shark but still having a tv special is equal to having a meeting when it coulda been an email :/
Finally, with just minutes to spare as the hour rolled away, the actual race happened. Phelps raced a simulation of the great white shark’s 100-meter swim — and to no one’s surprise, the simulated shark won by two seconds, performing a mighty breach as it attacked the decoy seal.
Phelps did an impressive job of keeping pace, however, swimming the stretch of open ocean in just 38.1 seconds to the shark’s 36.1.
The moment of glory for #TeamShark!!! #PhelpsVsShark #SharkWeek pic.twitter.com/NWYp1CwiRa
My favorite thing is that Michael Phelps literally could've beaten a shark if he didn't have to breathe.
Though the anticlimactic, simulated nature of the actual “race” let lots of people down, the real point of Phelps vs. Shark, as is typically the case with most Shark Week programming, was to sneak in some education and awareness raising about sharks, along with some science. Most of the event featured Phelps learning eyebrow-raising facts about sharks.
This is less about a race and more of a "Take Your Phelps to Work" day for shark biologists. And I'm not mad about it.  #SharkWeek pic.twitter.com/JpEGaPHIaW
Given that humans kill 100 million sharks each year, the educational potential of Shark Week can’t be overstated, even if its track record is nowhere near perfect. And that’s why Phelps said he agreed to race the shark to begin with.
As for the gripping live-action animal-on-person drama you may have been expecting? You’ll have to wait for Usain Bolt to challenge that cheetah to a rematch.
I was having lunch with a fellow TV critic the other day, and our conversation turned (as it inevitably does) to Twin Peaks.
Neither of us would count ourselves in the camp that believes Showtime’s miniseries is literally perfect. It’s been a little herky-jerky and sometimes feels like a TV series stuck on shuffle. But we both could agree that it’s one of just a handful of shows we’ve anticipated so eagerly. Every week, Twin Peaks starts, I sink into its mindset, and I barely notice time passing. In that sense — the sense that it’s trying to get viewers to let go of everything but the show while they watch it — maybe it is perfect.
I think the best way to summarize this feeling is that there are lots and lots of TV shows out there, but what Twin Peaks offers me is singular. You can’t easily find its blend of existential terror, weird humor, and melodrama anywhere else, even though so much of modern television is heavily influenced by the series’ original two seasons. Something like Game of Thrones is so influential that there are lots and lots of shows visibly playing around with its particular DNA. But only Twin Peaks is Twin Peaks.
“Part 11” neatly synthesizes that quality, with each and every scene hitting some sort of bizarre high point. It jets wildly from Gordon staring at a swirling sky vortex to Bobby being confronted by some strange zombie child to Cooper finally mumbling the words “damn good” in reference to a piece of cherry pie, and it somehow makes them all feel like parts of the whole.
In short, Twin Peaks feels new, even though it’s a revival of an old show. How David Lynch and Mark Frost managed that, I’ll never know. But “Part 11” is a beautiful summary of why this miniseries is working so well.
Bradley Mitchum (the Jim Belushi kingpin character) has a problem. He despises Dougie Jones, and he wants to kill him. But he’s also had a potentially prophetic dream that indicates Dougie (who is really Cooper, I know, but is referred to by everyone as Dougie, so I’m going to keep in that spirit) isn’t his enemy but, rather, his friend, and he has the situation all wrong.
When Dougie arrives to a meeting with Bradley and his brother, he’s carrying a giant box — and, Bradley says, if there’s a cherry pie in that box, then his dream was true and Dougie is their pal.
Lynch fans will recognize much of this basic setup from the director’s 2001 film Mulholland Dr., where one character has a terrifying nightmare, then discovers that the creature he dreamed up (who looks rather like the ashen ghosts who haunt Twin Peaks) is hiding behind a nearby dumpster — just like in his nightmare! But in Twin Peaks, the scenario is twisted to be broadly comical, even as Dougie’s life is at stake. Bradley dreamed about a cherry pie? And it’s a symbol of Dougie’s good intentions? It’s just a little ridiculous.
But Lynch also knows it’s ridiculous, so he keeps piling on the absurdity. The box does, indeed, contain a pie, and after a few moments, Dougie and the Mitchum brothers are hanging out in a casino’s restaurant, listening to tinkling piano music and pledging their friendship. (The Mitchums keep trying to toast, then have to show Dougie — who keeps reaching for their extended glasses — how to toast himself.) This is the scene where Dougie also parrots the Mitchums in calling his pie “damn good,” and the reveal of that famous phrase was built to so skillfully I almost clapped for it.
These scenes with Dougie and the Mitchums disrupt an episode that, up until that point, had been largely tense and horrific, one where Bill Hastings (the Matthew Lillard character) had his head implode and Bobby Briggs saw a strange zombie-like figure crawling out of the passenger seat of a stopped car, both toward him and the driver. There were moments of humor, sure, but they were often subverted by terror. (One exception: Gordon seeing Bill without the top half of his head and proclaiming: “Well, he’s dead!”)
Properly balancing horror and absurdity is a big part of Twin Peaks’ core, but what’s fun about “Part 11” is how wildly scenes will swing from one to the other (sometimes stopping along the way into melodrama). These sorts of tonal shifts are common in all of Lynch’s films, but it also feels as if the more time the miniseries spends in Twin Peaks proper — and nearly half of this episode was set in the little town — the more the show starts to gain the qualities of the original two seasons.
It’s an interesting way to structure the show. The closer it skirts to Twin Peaks, the more it feels like a TV show and less like a collection of scenes from a bunch of other stories, stitched together through vague thematic connections. But the longer we spend in Twin Peaks, the more we realize that things there have gone very, very wrong for almost everybody from the original series.
Critic Willow Maclay had a fascinating recap of the season’s 10th episode, in which she discusses how the performance by Rebekah del Rio at the end of that episode suggests that very, very bad things are coming. (Del Rio’s performance in Mulholland Dr. signals that film’s descent into darkness.)
And if we’re solely looking at the residents of Twin Peaks itself, to say nothing of Buckhorn, SD, then it’s not hard to see Maclay’s argument as more or less correct. At this point, only Dougie seems to be heading toward something other than doom — and even he will likely be drawn back to Twin Peaks and the darkness swirling around it once he fully realizes the truth of his situation.
Take, for instance, Hawk and Sheriff Truman’s perusal of the ancient map the former produces, which promises a time of “black fire,” or an energy surrounded by death. (I thought it was interesting that Hawk described the fire on the map as something like electricity, considering how Cooper re-entered our reality, to say nothing of much of “Part 8.”)
Now, the map as a whole is filled with Easter eggs for those who’ve watched the series — doesn’t that bug creature look a bit like the one that crawled into the girl’s mouth in “Part 8”? — but its foremost suggestion is that something horrible is coming, perhaps tied to those ashen-faced ghosts Gordon and Albert kept seeing lurking around the Buckhorn crime scene. (The map is also a great example of how Lynch blends absurdity and horror. It’s clearly a prop, even though it’s supposedly an ancient map, and he makes great use of that artifice, but still manages to undercut anything goofy about it with a kind of dark foreboding.)
That blend of tones tilts more and more toward horror as the show begins heading toward its end. No matter how many scenes we get of Dougie trying pie again, there’s still something that’s gone seriously off-course in the world, and that means there are bloodied women crawling through the weeds, or ghost children lurching toward police officers, or even the more mundane tragedies of a man longing for his former love even though she’s with somebody else.
Something’s coming on Twin Peaks, but the more that it shows its face, the more time I want to spend inside the series’ tiny moments of kindness, of new friends sharing a damn good cherry pie. But even in this weird spin on reality, there comes a time when you have to stop hiding and face the darkness.
On paper, the military force that Daenerys Targaryen assembled at the end of Game of Thrones’ sixth season was far and away the most formidable in Westeros. Between Dothraki cavalry, Unsullied infantry, the Iron Fleet stolen away by Yara and Theon Greyjoy, and her dragon air force, it was difficult to see how anyone could possibly stand against her.
Season seven, episode two, “Stormborn,” serves to level the playing field somewhat by having Dany stumble into the significant tactical error of sending the Greyjoys to sail south to Dorne, to try to try ferry the Dornish army up to King’s Landing. That leads them straight into the path of Euron Greyjoy, Theon’s uncle and the now-king of the Iron Islands, who built up a replacement fleet at an implausibly fast pace after Yara and Theon absconded with the Iron Fleet at the end of last season. Euron and his new ships sail to a massive victory in a breathtaking naval battle that leaves Ellaria Sand and Yara captive, Theon alone at sea, and what was supposed to have been the Targaryen fleet in ruins — giving Queen Cersei a shot at maintaining her grip on the Iron Throne.
Euron himself, the man behind the victory, was introduced late in the sixth season and given relatively short shrift as a character before rather suddenly emerging to play this key strategic role. The books, which dwell on the internal politics of the Iron Islands in considerably greater detail, offer us a richer picture of who he is and where he comes from — while at the same time hinting at dimensions of his character that may have been entirely written out of the HBO series.
Euron is the uncle of longtime series regulars Theon and Yara (called Asha in the books) Greyjoy, and the younger brother of their father, Balon Greyjoy. Balon ruled the Iron Islands at the beginning of the show, until Euron murdered him upon returning to the Iron Islands after years of exile. Balon also has two other sons who died before the series began, during the Greyjoy rebellion against former king Robert Baratheon — the failure of which led to Theon being raised as a semi-captive of Ned Stark.
Balon and Euron have another brother, Aeron Greyjoy, who appeared briefly in season six and who serves as a priest of the Drowned God.
In the books, Aeron and Euron have another living full brother, Victarion, as well as a dead brother (Urrigon) and several dead half-brothers whom it is implied Euron may have killed. The show has, thus far, not mentioned these characters, but they may come up later. Book-Aeron is an opponent of Euron’s rule over the Iron Islands, regarding him as an unholy man in part because Euron used to sexually abuse him when he was a child.
All of which is to say that against the backdrop of a Greyjoy family that is generally portrayed villainously, Euron stands out as especially villainous.
After the failure of Greyjoy’s Rebellion, Euron took his ship, the Silence, and went into exile far from the Seven Kingdoms. It’s not entirely clear what he got up to during his years away, since Euron is a profoundly unreliable narrator and on both the show and the book he didn’t cross paths with any of the other characters we follow. But he says he went raiding all around the world, and even visited the ruins of Valyria, the collapsed ancient empire from which the Targaryens and their dragons come.
Related
He seems to have gleaned something about the mysteries of the east while abroad, and more concretely has picked up a set of cosmopolitan attitudes and behaviors that contrast with the generally parochial outlook of the Iron Islands. Hence his swashbuckling and somewhat debonair attitude during his dialogue with Cersei in the Red Keep in the season seven premiere. He’s a bit more Pirates of the Caribbean than the dour, dull warriors we see elsewhere among his people.
Critically, however, last season he decided to come home, push Balon off a bridge, and take over for him as king of the Iron Islands. In the books this assassination is pulled off with a bit more finesse and complication, but it’s the same basic story. Euron straight up murdered his brother to take the throne and then send the Ironborn off to war — though in the books his proximate military objective is House Redwyne’s fleet located near Oldtown (where Sam is studying to become a Maester) and not Daenerys, who is still in Essos in the book timeline.
But beyond the difference in timelines and the larger family tree, there’s a truly critical difference between the book and show presentations of Euron. In the books, Euron is an uncanny figure who’s mixed up with the occult, the captain of a ship crewed by a group of mute thralls who’ve had their tongues cut out (hence the name Silence).
There is a Euron-focused chapter of the forthcoming book, Winds of Winter, that George R.R. Martin has read at various fan conventions and that features many occult themes. Told from the viewpoint of Aeron Greyjoy, whom Euron is holding captive on his ship as he sails it into battle against the Redwynes, it features several mystical visions of things like a bleeding star, Euron sitting on a throne of skulls, foreign warlocks, and Euron transforming into a kraken-like figure who is accompanied by “hands of white fire.”
Even before the events of Winds of Winter, though, Euron’s characterization in the books contains a key detail that hasn’t made its way to the series: He says he’s traveled to the mystical city of Asshai and he possess a horn that he says he can use to bind dragons to his will. His promise to his fellow Iron Islanders is that he will use this horn to seize control of the Targaryen dragons and conquer the world. Operationally, that means sending his other brother Victarian east with the horn to try to find Dany.
But rather than using a horn to turn the tide of battle, TV-Euron simply got to fight a dragon-less fleet and has made no mention of any such horn — suggesting a significantly simplified role in the show plot that positions him as an ally to Cersei rather than a sovereign conqueror. And that makes sense given the series’ development as it’s outpaced the events of the books: The military situation facing Cersei at the end of season six was simply too desperate to keep her viable without a strong new ally. Letting Euron deal a blow to Targaryen naval power levels the playing field, gives the season a new villain, and keeps one of the show’s most cherished characters in the game for a bit longer.

On Sunday night, the Discovery Channel is kicking off its annual Shark Week with a truly ridiculous stunt: Michael Phelps is going to race a great white.
Yep. “[Phelps] is our greatest champion to ever get in the water ... but he has one competition left to win,” the Discovery Channel’s promo for the special reads.
Discovery hasn’t released any details about the race itself. But according to Vanity Fair, “the two will each swim 100 meters in the same open water, and their times will be compared.” But not, apparently, at the same time. As Rolling Stone notes, “Phelps made it clear that he and the shark were not in the water at the same time.”
The exact details of the race don’t matter. Because there is no way Phelps can beat a great white shark swimming in an open ocean. No way.
Sure, Phelps has 28 Olympic medals. And, yes, he has a freakishly long wingspan of 80 inches (that’s 4 inches longer than his height of 6-foot-4). He is an incredibly strong 194 pounds, and he’s been recorded swimming at 6 miles per hour.
That’s extraordinary for a human. But a great white is just a beast of a competitor in the water.
Great whites typically swim 10 miles per hour, and can top out around 35. They have enough muscle to launch their two-ton bodies clean out of the water.
So. Let’s recap.
Great white shark:
Michael Phelps:
Place your bets.
I sent a quick email to David Shiffman, a shark scientist, to confirm my suspicions that Phelps will lose.
“Is this an entirely ridiculous stunt, or is there something possibly to learn here?” I asked.
Shiffman responded: “If what they're trying to teach is ‘wow, sharks are so fast that even Michael Phelps doesn't even come close,’ that's an interesting way to convey that idea.”
There’s one way — maybe — Phelps could win. You try telling a great white shark to swim in a straight line.
(It’s fun to imagine all unrivaled Olympic champions facing off against an animal in retirement. Next up: Usain Bolt versus an ostrich.)
Every Sunday, we pick a new episode of the week. It could be good. It could be bad. It will always be interesting. You can read the archives here. The episode of the week for July 16 through 22 is “Dallas,” the fifth episode of the second season of AMC’s Preacher.
Preacher is a curious beast of a show. I wrote in its first season that the AMC series sometimes seemed to be composed entirely of cool moments, as opposed to stories. But it was able to get a surprising amount of mileage out of that, only really running out of gas late in its first season.
It’s adapted from an acclaimed series of comics, but it makes changes to them all over the place, sometimes seemingly for little to no reason. In season two, it’s adapted a travelogue structure that has it winding its way across the southern half of the United States, seeking an absent God, who turns out to be a big fan of jazz. (Right now the characters are camped in New Orleans, because if you’re looking for a jazz fan...)
Oh, and there’s an entire parallel storyline set in hell, which in the Preacher universe is an overcrowded prison crossed with an ’80s high school movie (in that there are bullies and sweet, misunderstood nerds and so on).
But what’s most exciting about Preacher in season two is that it seems to have realized, abruptly, that it can’t just coast off the reputation of its source material. It’s trying to retrofit character dynamics into its already existing structure — like building a car from the outside in. I have no idea if it will end up working, but I’m thrilled watching it try. It’s unexpectedly become one of my favorite shows of the summer.
In its first season, Preacher’s central three players weren’t so much characters as they were attitudes. Jesse Custer, the show’s titular preacher, played by Dominic Cooper, was troubled but trying to do good. His ex-girlfriend Tulip (Ruth Negga) was a badass. And his new vampire pal Cassidy (Joseph Gilgun) was all snark and strut, more of a cool walk than a full-fledged character.
This wasn’t the fault of any of the actors, who were all good. It was that the show was asking them, often, to play figures who were at the mercy of a plot that always signaled it was heading somewhere without actually doing so. In particular, the series needed Tulip and Cassidy to spin their wheels before it could send them on the road alongside Jesse.
The first season finale ended up feeling like a cruel joke, killing off almost all of the series’ supporting characters while the central three hit the road. It was as if the show, which had struggled to establish most of those supporting players in the first place, was thumbing its nose at any viewers who’d dared to become invested in any of them.
But it also gave the series a clean slate. For as many changes, big and small, as Preacher has made to the comics, it couldn’t escape that the books are, fundamentally, a road trip story about examining America and Christianity at the heights of decadence for both. Thus, the simple act of sending the show on the road has snapped much of what wasn’t working about Preacher into place.
It’s also given the central three characters actual people to play, instead of blanks to be filled in later. Jesse’s quest to find God might seem slightly inexplicable at times, but the show is careful to always give it just enough justification, like it’s laying the tracks exactly as the train is barreling down over it. And because Tulip’s in the car, the show has to justify why she and Jesse are so drawn to each other. And because Cassidy’s in the car, he has to become something other than the snarky one-liner guy, which has given him more of a soul.
This has rarely been more apparent than in “Dallas,” which is in some ways the best episode the show has done yet. It’s mostly a three-character piece among the central trio. Other characters pop in and out, sure, but the episode is careful to examine each leg of the main triangle with a close, clear eye. Jesse, having learned Tulip got married in the three years the two were broken up, strings up her mobster husband, Viktor, in a harness hanging from the ceiling, with the implication that he might just get around to killing the guy. Meanwhile, Tulip tries to save the life of a husband she doesn’t love anymore, while Cassidy tries to manipulate the situation to his advantage (since he, too, is a little in love with Tulip — but who wouldn’t be?).
This breaks the episode, in essence, into three stories, one focused on the Jesse-Tulip relationship, one on the Jesse-Cassidy relationship, and one on the Tulip-Cassidy relationship. It’s darkly funny, as the show always is, but it also went a long way toward convincing me these characters had actual feelings and emotions and stuff.
The best genre stories are almost always some recognizably universal human story in a glossier costume. Star Wars is about wanting to get away from home, for instance, while Lord of the Rings is about wanting to get back to it. Frankenstein is about the desire to leave a legacy via one’s children. And so on.
Now, of course, you don’t look at any of those stories and think about that side of them first. You think of the spaceships or reanimated corpses, and maybe then you get into the emotional content. But a genre story without that emotional content is often a big, empty shell. It might be fun to look at, but you tire of it after a while.
That, I think, is why Preacher’s first-season approach eventually drove me away. The smart thing season two has done is subtly reconfigure itself as a story about a busted love triangle among friends. Even the search for God (which is theoretically relatable) has taken a back seat to the pining that exists in that car, where Jesse and Tulip can never quite be sure of each other, while Cassidy is always looking for his way in.
The first few episodes of season two kept this a little buried beneath big, showy action sequences and that depiction of hell as a bureaucratic nightmare. But the show kept turning to scenes of Jesse and Tulip alone together in a hotel room at night, having to deal with the fact that they’d somehow found their way back to each other and were living in the “now what?”.
In particular, “Dallas” reconfigures the idea that Tulip and Jesse broke up because she suffered a miscarriage during a criminal job carried out in the titular city, refining that into the idea that the two broke up because they didn’t quite know where to place their sadness in the wake of that miscarriage. Jesse sank into drinking and general lethargy, while Tulip tried to go straight before drifting back to criminality. He left to become a preacher; she left to sink back into her old life. The miscarriage didn’t break them up — it just made it easier for them to see the fissures already there, which having a baby might have forced them to ignore.
The series accomplishes this via a number of flashbacks to the two’s time in the wake of the miscarriage, along with several montages of the monotony of Jesse’s life in that time: more beer, more sex with Tulip, more failed pregnancy tests. The couple’s job became staying together, until both realized they didn’t much enjoy that particular job anymore.
Now that they’re back together, things have changed. For one, Jesse’s been granted the superpower of being able to, godlike, command people to do his will, thanks to the fact that he possesses a supernatural being known as Genesis. Tulip asks him not to, but when he learns about Viktor, he uses that power everywhere — even on her eventually. Yes, “Dallas” ends with the two of them back together, but it’s also constantly planting the seeds of their destruction.
Any good relationship will have a tough period, somewhere where it seemed like things might fall apart, or where they actually did. To love someone after that happens is an act of faith on the part of both partners, a hope that things will be okay, even if there’s ample evidence to the contrary.
When trying to get Jesse to kill Viktor (and thus break up him and Tulip), Cassidy suggests that there’s nothing that could keep Jesse and Tulip apart, that they’ll always find their way back to each other. That Jesse doesn’t kill Viktor indicates that he’s not so sure, that he, on some level, knows better. There are sins even she can’t forgive.
Preacher airs Mondays at 9 pm Eastern on AMC. Previous episodes are available on Hulu and the AMC website.
After Donald Trump was elected president, lots of people started buying books by Hannah Arendt: In December, her 1951 book The Origins of Totalitarianism was selling at 16 times its normal rate.
Why Arendt, a political theorist who died in 1975? She’s an important philosopher but not exactly a popularly read writer. The answer is simple enough: She has a lot to say about what’s wrong with the world today.
Arendt theorized about the nature of totalitarian societies — how they work, what they prey on, and why they spring up. America isn’t in the grips of totalitarianism, but the preconditions are there, namely a hollow and fractured society full of dislocated, angry people.
I reached out by phone to Lyndsey Stonebridge, a Hannah Arendt scholar who wrote a book about Arendt’s influence, The Judicial Imagination: Writing After Nuremburg. We talked about Arendt’s legacy and how her ideas speak to our present political moment. We also discussed Donald Trump, Brexit, and what Arendt meant when she defined totalitarianism as a form of “organized loneliness.”
Our lightly edited conversation follows.
Why do you think so many people are suddenly interested in Arendt?
I think the resurgence in the last year has been around the phenomenon of totalitarianism and that sense that something like a crisis is occurring and we don't know how to address it. It's very interesting that it's The Origins of Totalitarianism that's being cited and read.
I read that book in graduate school and was sort of bowled over by it. Her idea that totalitarianism is essentially organized loneliness seems awfully relevant now.
I've made the point quite a few times that Arendt was very important as a 20th-century thinker. I'm trained as a literary scholar and a historian at the same time. That's my dual background. What's brilliant about The Origins of Totalitarianism is she's saying you need to invent new methods for understanding new things. That's why she was blasted for writing The Origins of Totalitarianism, because she wouldn't give a big historical narrative. She insisted that we pay attention to what was new and what was   different.
Let's linger on that thought for a second. What was it about totalitarianism for Arendt that was new? Why was it uniquely a product of the modern world?
There’s a reason she refused to give some grand historical narrative about the roots of totalitarianism. She believed that certain things had to be in place for totalitarianism to take shape — racism, capitalist expansion for the sake of expansion (what we might call globalization today), the decline of the traditional concept of the nation-state, and anti-Semitism.
Arendt said those things conspired to create a constellation which could produce   totalitarianism in the form that she was talking about then.
What strikes you when reading The Origins of Totalitarianism now?
Two things. She said studying totalitarianism was like trying to unpack a crystal. She insisted that she wasn’t a “traditional historian” because historians usually write about things because they want to preserve them, whereas she wanted to write about something “I wanted to destroy."
She thought she could destroy an idea which is both totalitarian but also endemic to lots of ideological thinking, and that is the idea there is a “telos,” or a grand purpose or struggle, and that everything has to be in service of that idea. She didn’t want to replace the totalitarianisms of her day with another master narrative.
She wanted to explode the belief in master narratives altogether.
I’m glad you went there because that’s something that interests me as well, this belief in grand stories about history or justice — all ideologies have something like this at the center. Why did Arendt believe people were vulnerable to these narratives? Why was modern life making them so attractive?
For Arendt, it was about the isolation of modern life, the emptiness of it all. What she understood — more than someone like [George] Orwell — is that you don’t need to be a totalitarian state to exhibit the characteristic features of totalitarianism. Her focus was on modern loneliness, the isolated individual who loses a kind of rootedness in the   world and therefore is prime material for the takeover of ideology, for the total narrative that gives life direction and meaning.
What is the political and social price we pay for allowing society to fracture in this way?
I’d like to answer that by raising a couple of things that Arendt didn’t really wrestle with. The big price we pay for mass loneliness is the loss of a shared reality. Arendt disagreed with Orwell that everyone knows two plus two doesn’t make five. We're not idiots. We know a lie. But the problem is when people decide they don’t have to accept this reality. Then everyone begins to inhabit their own world, and that loss of a shared reality is what produces the loneliness, and that’s what makes the chaos of post-truth and willful lies so politically and existentially traumatic.
Draw a line for me. How do we get from a loss of shared reality to totalitarianism?
Once you're uprooted from your sense of reality as a community, that allows all sorts of other uprootings to take place. We lose our human connection to other people, and that’s when the conditions are in place for tribalism and mass violence, for the extermination of “superfluous people,” for “others.” This something Arendt understood all too well.
So obviously we’re dealing with this problem right now, this loss of a shared reality. We’re in this bizarre “post-truth” climate in which our president lies with impunity, fake news and misinformation are pervasive, and much of the country is cocooned inside self-affirming information bubbles. At the same time, there’s a resurgence of racism and ethnonationalism, both here and in Europe.
I take it Arendt would have anticipated this?
Absolutely. The relationship between that kind of politics and violence was inextricable for Arendt. One of the things people do when they’ve become uprooted is to retreat into us-them fictions, and that often means dividing the world racially.
I think the politics of Trumpism and politics of Brexit, the politics of the new right, have deliberately merged, and so you cannot pull them apart. What we're also getting   as a product of this organized loneliness is a valorization of race politics and even violent racism.
Can you give me a concrete example of what you mean by violence there? Because I suspect a lot of people will assume that political violence has to be explicit or overt, but that’s not always the case.
Sure. So we've just watched a tower block in London kill 79 people, and that's a very conservative estimate. That tower block was full of asylum seekers, migrants, poor, working-class, black people. It burned down because there's a politics that has said in our council and in our country for a long time that the interests of the bourgeois elite and their monetary interests come above those people. There are now criminal proceedings, but it's an act of murder, and it can’t be divorced from the politics that made it possible.
Let’s connect this back to Trump and Brexit if we can. How are Trump and Brexit direct responses to the loneliness and the uprootedness?
I think these movements give people a coherent fiction. My sense is that it gives them a kind of fantasy, and in both Britain and America it’s a nostalgic fantasy, a belief that we can return to some glorious past in which the middle class boomed and everyone had stable incomes and simpler lives.
Britain has the same economic divisions that America has, and in both countries the liberal elites haven’t fully come to grips with the fact that the economic policies of the last 20 or 30 years have produced a monster, a monster that we created.
So you see Trump and Brexit as twin political phenomena?
I'm slightly more worried about the Trump fantasy than the Brexit fantasy, because Trump’s cult of personality is built on power and narcissism, and I’m not sure the Brexit fantasy is quite as mad as that.
But I don’t want to turn this into a competition!
If it’s a madness competition between Britain and America right now, I’ll take America.
Fair enough.
So if Arendt were to emerge out of a void and survey our current political landscape, what do you suppose she would say?
“Think! Think! Think!” I imagine she would also tell us to be scared, but I think she'd have been saying that for the last 10 or 20 years. And she’d say to not just be scared of Trump or Brexit, because those are manifestations of something that’s been happening for a very long time.
You seem to imply that the intellectual class has been blind to this brewing chaos. Is that right?
That’s right. There’s a certain type of left intellectual, both in the US and the UK, that simply doesn’t get it. First, we had Brexit. Then we had Trump. The distinguishing feature of that was an absolute incredulity among certain people to understand what had happened, to understand that something totally spontaneous seemed to have happened that we couldn't predict and that we didn't like, that we thought was mad and we didn't understand.
I think Arendt would've said this is what politics does. It's around the space of   interruption. It's around the spontaneous. And whoever owns that space owns the direction it goes, and so you have to be watchful at all times, especially when the signs of disruption are so clear.
Apart from the elections, what sorts of signs do you have in mind?
I think Arendt would point to things like the prison system in the States, to the housing estates in London, to the forgotten spaces in Middle America with no role to play in this booming global economy — Arendt would say these are the new homes for superfluous people. But they’re real people, and people in power are blind to them.
These are also totalitarian features. When you crowd people into spaces, declare them invisible, declare them immaterial, those are the new spaces of what used to be the totalitarian camp.
Political spontaneity works both ways, though. Are there not also encouraging developments?
Sure. I think Arendt would be enthusiastic about other forms of politics that are coming together in the face of all this. Whereas lots of people are troubled that the Democrats don't have a central narrative, and until three weeks ago it didn't seem like the left did in Britain either, I think she'd have been very interested to watch the different groups that are coming together — there's local community groups and political groups, different international groups — that together form a kind of counter-politics.
Arendt would call this an example of natality, an example of the new, the positive creation that can happen in the face of bad politics. So I think she’d be excited about that.
I want to go back to the concept of thinking, which had a particular meaning for Arendt, a political meaning. When you say that Arendt would look at our current moment and tell us to think, what do you mean? What would she mean?
Well, actually, thinking for Arendt isn't always political by itself. Thinking is something you do by yourself. It is loneliness. It is isolation. It's always tricky in Arendt's work to see how she gets from thinking to politics, which I can talk about in a second. But thinking for Arendt was really a way of being; it’s about the dialogue we have in our head. She wanted to valorize that because it’s an internal check, in the moral and political sense.
Which is why she insisted that all totalitarian societies were defined by a kind of thoughtlessness. They were full of men and women who were smart but stopped thinking in this sense.
Right. She was writing in response to what she saw as totalitarian thoughtlessness. What she noticed about [Nazi leader Adolf] Eichmann when she went to see him [on trial] in Jerusalem was that he spoke purely in clichés, in banalities. She said he could only do that because he hasn't got the inner voice, he hasn't got that second voice in his head. He’s a human machine, a thoughtless tool. His thoughts were the thoughts drilled him into via the propaganda and the slogans.
Which is why she always cautioned against banal or clichéd speech; this was a sign that people had stopped thinking for themselves, and once that happens, totalitarianism isn’t far behind.
Let’s close with something useful for readers who are interested in reading Arendt as a way of making sense of the present. Where should they start?
The essays that I go back to are the “Thinking and Moral Considerations” essay, which she wrote coming out of the Eichmann trial. The book on Eichmann is wonderful just for its sense of narrative and indignation. But the “Thinking and Moral Considerations” essay is especially interesting because it was written during the Watergate scandal. There was a real sense of America tearing itself down and a belief that something different was happening.
And that is a familiar feeling these days.
At first glance, Insecure isn’t about much at all, really. The HBO comedy sticks to the age-old TV tradition of following people who are trying to figure out what to do next with their lives, whether with their jobs, their partners, their friends, or just the spinning recesses of their own neurotic brains.
But give Insecure a few minutes of your time and the show will reward with you so much more than meets your cliché-weary eye.
Returning for its second season on July 23, Insecure has locked into a smoother groove than even its already stellar first season. Though its characters — from drifting Issa (co-creator/writer/star Issa Rae) to her ex-boyfriend Lawrence (Jay Ellis) to her ambitious best friend Molly (Yvonne Orji) — are still decidedly in flux, Insecure season two is more self-assured than ever.
Related
The best thing about Insecure is that none of its characters are solely defined by the problems they’re facing or the bad dates they end up dissecting over drinks. With sharp writing, acting, and some gorgeous directing on their side, everyone on Insecure feels like a fully formed person, making everything the characters do — no matter how seemingly banal — endlessly compelling.
Crafting a show that feels this effortless is a whole lot harder than Insecure makes it look. While TV keeps breaking new ground with surrealism (Atlanta, Twin Peaks) and epic storytelling (Game of Thrones, Preacher), Insecure makes a strong case for the grounded comedy with wit and charisma to spare.
After Issa cheated on Lawrence last season in a moment of scattered dissatisfaction, season two opens with both characters trying to determine what being single looks like for them after being comfortable in their coupled routines for so long. They’re still having trouble letting each other go, and dating in LA is exhausting. But if they were to be honest (a thing that’s been demonstrably hard for both of them since the beginning), they’re also kind of enjoying exploring their options.
That’s about where the similarities between the two begin and end, however. Issa has more trouble than she anticipated launching herself into the world of casual sex, for example, while Lawrence, to his fascination and beefed-up pride, does not. And because Insecure recognizes that they’re different people with different needs, hopes, and concepts of what it means to be happy, it gives both characters room to react and experiment in their own ways.
As for Molly — who dominated last season’s dating stories — Insecure season two lets expand her storyline horizons to her job and mental health. She wants to put her dating life on pause (though she’s now cycling through therapists like she used to do with dating apps) because she wants to focus on her career. She feels like she’s just spinning her wheels at her law firm — a problem that becomes bleaker after she discovers that her white male co-worker is making significantly more money than she is.
As Issa, Molly, and Lawrence navigate their respective spheres, none of their arcs quite go where you might expect. This holds especially true for Lawrence as he grapples with his curiosity to explore sex as a smoking-hot single guy vis-à-vis his increasingly warped perception of what being “a nice guy” actually means. And in the process, the character becomes a true co-lead in season two, versus the supporting player he was before.
Though Insecure’s DNA is rooted in typical half-hour comedies — sending its characters into interpersonal misunderstandings and dating mishaps that we’ve seen a million times before — the show still manages to feel fresh by giving its characters room to be a little messier, a little more selfish, a little more realistic in their flaws than most other comedies would allow. And with an entirely black cast, gorgeous direction, and a penchant for showing a side of Los Angeles that TV rarely explores, Insecure doesn’t look or feel like anything else on television. There are precious few TV shows that depict groups of friends with more than one black woman having fun together onscreen, let alone talking frankly about sex and the infuriating intricacies of daily life.
And to that point, it helps that Insecure’s cast is full of actors who can knock most any challenge they’re faced with out of the park.
By far the sharpest weapons in Insecure’s arsenal are its actors.
As Molly, Orji is straightforward and discerning; she can convey years of firm but unconditional friendship with Issa with the slightest raise of her eyebrow (though her sporadic, full-throated laugh is a treat).
Ellis slides into Lawrence’s expanded role like it’s a sweater that fits just right, portraying Lawrence’s blossoming confidence and hesitation at plunging into the life of being a true player with equal dexterity. (He does, however, manage to get briefly overshadowed by Dominique Perry as Tasha, a girl Lawrence mistakenly assumes is nothing more than a good time.)
Rae, meanwhile, has played some version of this Issa for years thanks to the Awkward Black Girl web series that first inspired Insecure. But she’s noticeably more comfortable this season, as Issa stumbles around in the dating pool.
And thank god Natasha Rothwell’s role as Issa and Molly’s messiest friend Kelli has been upped in season two, because her bawdy energy steals every scene she dances her way through.
All across the board, Insecure’s cast has settled into their roles with such casual ease that it’s easy to understand where their characters are coming from, even — or maybe especially — when they’re struggling. In season two, Insecure proves it knows better than most that even the seemingly tiniest mistakes and careless moments can nonetheless have life-altering effects.
The second season of Insecure premieres Sunday, July 23, at 10:30 pm on HBO. The first season will also be available to stream that day for free starting at 6 am EST.
For fans of all things geek, the centerpiece of the yearly celebration at San Diego Comic-Con International has become the Marvel Studios presentation held late on Saturday in the cavernous Hall H.
In the 11 years since the then-nascent film studio presented its first film — the 2008 release Iron Man — at Comic-Con 2006, its Comic-Con presentation has become a must-attend event for Comic-Con attendees.
It’s where the Avengers were first unveiled (along with director Joss Whedon) in 2010. It’s where producer Kevin Feige and director James Gunn surprised everyone with an incredibly early look at 2014’s Guardians of the Galaxy a few days into its shoot back in 2013. And it’s where Brie Larson was announced as Captain Marvel, the studio’s first woman superhero to headline her own film, in 2016.
In 2017, it might have seemed as though the studio didn’t have a ton to reveal. Its upcoming slate is pretty set in stone, with little room to add new films. But that didn’t mean Marvel forgot to bring Hall H fans their annual gifts.
Here are five big presents Marvel unwrapped to the ecstatic “oohs” and “ahhs” of the assembled faithful.
Marvel
After 2015’s Ant-Man did everything it could do to hide the face of Janet Van Dyne — the first woman to wear the suit of the Wasp (and, consequently, a hugely important figure in Marvel’s superhero history) — it’s been clear the studio was hoping to cast an A-lister to star alongside Michael Douglas, who plays the original Ant-Man, Hank Pym. (The films also star Paul Rudd as the current Ant-Man and Evangeline Lilly as the woman who will become the Wasp in 2018’s Ant-Man and the Wasp.)
What was sneaky about this announcement was that Marvel unveiled this biggest surprise at the very beginning of its presentation, with Rudd and Ant-Man co-star Michael Peña riffing on the history of the Marvel Cinematic Universe — only to reveal it was all information they’d been sharing with their newest costar, Michelle Pfeiffer, who will step into Janet’s estimable shoes.
Though Ant-Man and the Wasp has just begun filming, Marvel also brought a full suite of concept art and a few finished shots to Comic-Con (including one of a giant Ant-Man peeking out from behind a building). The studio also revealed that Randall Park and Laurence Fishburne will be playing Jimmy Woo and Dr. Bill Foster, respectively. Bill Foster, in particular, is a hero known as Black Goliath in Marvel’s canon. It remains to be seen whether Fishburne will step into that role as well.
The ‘90s are hot right now, as are films about woman superheroes set in the past (thanks, Wonder Woman!). So why not combine the two and set Captain Marvel, which won’t be out until 2019, in the ‘90s? Who wouldn’t want to see Carol Danvers feeling bummed as the music of Stone Temple Pilots plays?
Feige revealed only a very little bit about the upcoming Captain Marvel film, which hasn’t even started shooting yet and only recently acquired its directors (Anna Boden and Ryan Fleck, the indie auteurs behind movies like Half Nelson). But flashing back to the ‘90s will allow Carol to hang out with a version of Nick Fury with two eyes, so Samuel L. Jackson won’t have to wear that eyepatch all the time.
Oh, and the villains in the film? They’ll be the Skrulls, alien impersonators from outer space who played an important role in the Marvel crossover Secret Invasion, which is hotly rumored to play into the still-untitled Avengers 4, which is slated for release in 2019. The presence of the Skrulls in Captain Marvel suggests that may well be the case.
The common criticism of Marvel Studios is that its overarching mission — make a whole bunch of films that occupy the same universe and that can feature crossovers and plot twists that impact other movies — means that filmmakers aren’t allowed to put much of a personal stamp on the company’s films. And, uh, that’s not an unfair criticism, really. The studio’s movies are pretty cookie-cutter.
But Marvel sure seems like it’s trying to shake this criticism. It’s given James Gunn pretty much free rein over the Guardians of the Galaxy franchise, and for November’s Thor: Ragnarok, it’s recruited the quirky but brilliant Kiwi director Taika Waititi (Hunt for the Wilderpeople, What We Do in the Shadows) and an eclectic cast that seems more like it belongs in an Oscar hopeful than a Thor movie. (It includes Marvel newcomers Cate Blanchett, Jeff Goldblum, and up-and-comer Tessa Thompson, for God’s sake.)
Related
The footage Marvel screened during its panel — including a lengthy sequence where Thor first meets Goldblum’s character (with a terrific reference to, of all things, “World of Imagination” from Willy Wonka), followed by his first encounter with a soft-voiced rock monster who helps Thor understand the gladiator planet he’s landed on — was met with laughs, as was the film’s newest trailer (embedded above), which promised epic grandeur but with a thumb of the nose. That tone has gotten the sometimes-too-jokey Marvel in trouble before, but it’s also right where Waititi lives. Here’s hoping he delivers on all of this promise.
Maybe I’m biased because Black Panther is filled with so many of my favorite actors and is directed by the hugely promising young director Ryan Coogler (who made the very good Fruitvale Station in 2013 and the excellent Creed in 2015). Maybe I’m biased because it looks like it’s going to be a James Bond-style spy thriller (one of my favorite genres). Maybe I’m just biased because Danai Gurira (The Walking Dead’s Michonne) fights a bunch of people with a giant spear. But Black Panther’s footage was so good it overshadowed nearly everything else that happened during the panel.
The footage focused on T’Challa (Chadwick Boseman), the Black Panther himself, as he and his friends enter a casino to watch over a trade between characters played by Andy Serkis and Martin Freeman (both Marvel vets). It featured everything from Gurira whipping off her wig and hurling it at a guy in the middle of a fight to Boseman, cat-like, springing between pieces of tumbling furniture to give chase to the bad guys.
That it was followed by a trailer that had plenty of scenes in common with the earlier trailer, but also teased some bigger, bolder action beats (mostly involving Gurira and her spear), only made it seem all the more impressive. Black Panther doesn’t come out until February 2018, but it seems like Coogler and company have the bones of something very good indeed.
Arriving in May 2018, Avengers: Infinity War is going to be the biggest Marvel production yet, featuring basically every major character the studio has introduced over its 10-year history so far.
That’s so many characters to service in one movie, and when you consider how overstuffed 2015’s Age of Ultron (a movie I really like) could feel, there’s certainly reason to feel concerned.
But Infinity War still looks massive. The trailer concludes with Thanos — the big bad guy that everything has been building toward — throwing a moon at our heroes. It features Thor colliding against the windshield of the Guardians of the Galaxy’s spaceship. It has Doctor Strange throwing up magical platforms so Star-Lord can run atop them, firing his blaster at the enemy. (And, yes, if you’ve read accounts of the footage screened from this movie at D23 — Disney’s pseudo Comic-Con for Disney properties held the week before Comic-Con — it sure sounds like this was the same exact trailer.)
But Marvel is certainly behaving as if Infinity War is the culmination of everything it’s done so far. The panel featured two separate ruminations over the company’s almost-decade of released films, first with Rudd and Peña at the beginning, and again before the Infinity War footage. And the sheer scale of everything shown — from Infinity War right down to the beard on Captain America’s face — screams, “SERIES FINALE! EVERYTHING MUST GO!”
Of course, we know Marvel will keep making movies after Infinity War — but to watch the footage from the film, you might second guess as much.
For its new trailer, Thor: Ragnarok gave fans more of what they want, namely more Thor, more Hulk, and more Cate Blanchett. And, okay, just a little bit of Loki (Tom Hiddleston), too. And up-and-coming star Tessa Thompson carrying a sword. And laser gun battles! And giant demons! What more could you want?
The film’s first trailer, which debuted in April, gave us a glimpse of director Taika Waititi’s humor and self-awareness. And this one continues that trend. The Thor film series is considered to be one of the less dazzling properties in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, because its characters have failed to inspire the kind of fervent adoration that characters like Iron Man or the Guardians of the Galaxy enjoy. But the first trailer, complete with elaborate headdresses, bright colors, and unapologetic weirdness in the form of characters like Jeff Goldblum’s ostentatious Grandmaster, seemed to signal that Waititi isn’t afraid of leaning into the bizarre campiness of his film’s titular demigod.
With some major star power in Blanchett, Hiddleston, a rumored appearance by Benedict Cumberbatch’s Doctor Strange, and the piqued interest of how Thor and the Guardians of the Galaxy are now connected, it looks like Ragnarok might prove that for Thor, the third time’s the charm.
Thor: Ragnarok is scheduled to hit theaters on November 3, 2017.
Stranger Things season two is really happening, and we now have a premiere date and a full trailer to prove it.
The ’80s-set Netflix thriller was one of the most talked-about TV shows of last summer, in part due to its nostalgic appeal and heavy reliance on references and homages to classic ’80s horror and sci-fi. And from the looks of the two trailers for the second season, the show's homage-heavy feel will continue apace. As my colleague Todd VanDerWerff wrote, "If you were wondering where the show will be going, the answer seems clear: Close Encounters of the Third Kind, by way of H.P. Lovecraft."
But that's only scratching the surface. Since news of Stranger Things' renewal broke, the show’s cast, creators, and producers have dropped quite a lot of info about what to expect, from plot details to several new characters.
Here’s what we know so far.
Netflix revealed the full trailer for Stranger Things at Comic-Con on July 22, and it’s replete with a whole new set of ‘80s images and themes — including Ghostbusters and Michael Jackson’s “Thriller.” The gang seems to be dealing with even more monsters, even as Will deals with terrifying visions and Eleven struggles to free herself from within the Upside Down.
Some doors can't be closed. @Stranger_Things season 2. October 27. pic.twitter.com/8Ewfyy4lcA
The Super Bowl teaser trailer revealed that season two of the series will air around Halloween of this year, but Netflix didn’t confirm the date until July, when it unveiled the date — October 27 — on Twitter, along with gorgeous new poster art.
The first season aired during summer, so the season two premiere is a bit of a wait. But given how dependent this series is on ’80s horror tropes — even the teaser channels Ghostbusters and some scary Close Encounters with mysterious tentacle monsters — the weekend before Halloween makes sense as an air date.
Plus, it gives us more time to anticipate, and makes the show's rich debt to John Carpenter that much clearer.
We’ve known for a while that Noah Schnapp, who plays season one Demogorgon-bait Will Byers, had been upgraded to regular status for season two (along with Joe Keery, who plays Nancy Byers's boyfriend Steve). But fans of Will, who didn’t get much screen time in season one, are in luck: He could be the most important figure in the season two ensemble.
Stranger Things director and executive producer Shawn Levy recently told Mashable that Will would feature prominently in the season two storyline, thanks to his trip to the Upside Down and the number of strange(r) things that have been happening to him since his return.
“Will Byers is very much at the center of season two,” Levy said. “Noah steps up in the most staggering way. The Duffers and I, depending on who’s directing when, we keep sending texts to each other going, ‘holy shit, Noah is crushing it’ and we knew he had it in him, and it’s really now to get in that moment, and put him firmly in the thick of story.”
When we last saw Will, he was experiencing some pretty gruesome side effects from his trip to the strange underworld that lurks within Hawkins, Indiana. It’s not likely he’ll be able to keep his escalating illness — if that’s the word for when you’re coughing up slugs — hidden for long, and we’re eager to learn what the fallout will be.
It seems as though Stranger Things has adopted a “go dark or go home” approach. Levy told Vanity Fair that the show’s second season will double down on all the themes of season one, describing it as “bigger and potentially darker in its stakes.”
But he also added the intriguing footnote that season two is about “the struggle to reclaim normalcy and maybe the impossibility of it.”
Given that season one ended with the town of Hawkins settling back into an uneasy routine after battling a giant supernatural monster from another dimension, Levy could be speaking in a purely non-allegorical sense. But it's also possible, given how much the question of what is "normal" has been on the minds of the American public lately, that Levy was speaking to broader concerns. Could Stranger Things season two have an unexpected political relevance?
Stranger Things’ creative team, composed of ’80s kids Matt and Ross Duffer, will be back for the new season, as will producers Levy and Dan Cohen. Levy and the Duffers have said that season two will be very similar to season one in aesthetic, tone, pace, and the way the show focuses on its characters. Several of the show’s season one writers will also be back.
The main ensemble cast is returning, too. On November 4, the Stranger Things Twitter account shared season two’s first official cast photo — upside down in a cheeky homage to the show's alternate dimension.
sƃuıɥʇɹǝƃuɐɹʇs#ɹɐǝʎ ʇxǝu noʎ ǝǝsuoıʇɔnpoɹd uı ʞɔɐq pic.twitter.com/jYd1tDsPRi
Here's what that first cast photo looks like right side up:
The photo reveals that Stranger Things' lovable ensemble of teens and preteens is returning in force, including Millie Bobby Brown as Eleven. Initially, Ross Duffer hedged on whether she’d be back, but TV Line has since reported that Eleven will definitely return in season two — and most likely as a series regular, along with newly upgraded regulars Keery and Schnapp.
As you can see in the photo above, season two also brings new additions to the group: Sadie Sink and Dacre Montgomery are shown at opposite ends of the tableau.
A casting call obtained by the Hollywood Reporter in September revealed that the roles that eventually went to Sink and Montgomery were for two new series regular characters named Max and Billy. Max and Billy are stepsiblings: Max (Sink) is a tough, tomboyish teenage girl, around age 13. Billy (Montgomery) is her older brother, a rebellious, edgy 17-year-old who’s rumored to have killed someone in the past. He’s described as the kind of kid who drinks and drives a black Camaro.
Max is described as being “good on a skateboard” and having “a complicated history,” in part because of her relationship with her brother, whose “violent and unpredictable nature” apparently comes out at home. Season two will undoubtedly explore their dynamic — though Billy, who’s reportedly only a potential series regular, may not be around that much.
The casting call also mentioned a third character, Roman, who’s really intriguing. Roman’s gender and ethnicity initially weren’t specified; the part ultimately went to Danish newcomer Linnea Berthelsen. Roman is an older teen with a traumatic past who has a mysterious connection to the experiments at the research facility. The initial casting description was quite vague, in keeping with the character’s cryptic, vengeance-driven purpose:
Roman, meanwhile, is described as a male or a female of any ethnicity between the ages of 30 and 38. After growing up homeless with a drug-addicted mother, he or she suffered a great loss at an early age and has been seeking revenge ever since. Roman is ultimately an outsider who doesn't understand how to connect with people.
This casting description has led some Stranger Things fans to speculate that the role is intended to be a kind of monster-hunter archetype: a loner passing through town, seeking vengeance for a past transgression against her family. (Think Supernatural’s road-tripping brothers, but with less family drama and more monster killing.)
The teens aren’t the only new faces. Former Goonie Sean Astin (Lord of the Rings) will return to his ’80s roots to play Bob Newby, “a kind-hearted nerd” who grew up in Hawkins, went to school with Will Byers’s mom Joyce (Winona Ryder) and the local chief of police, and now manages the local Radio Shack.
Meanwhile, in keeping with what will be season two's previously announced homage to the classic action-horror movie Aliens — more on that below — the show's producers have cast Paul Reiser, who played the unforgettable villain Burke in the 1986 film. Burke was a smarmy bureaucratic shill for an evil research corporation, and on Stranger Things Reiser will play a Department of Energy bigwig who sweeps into Hawkins to hush up the events of season one. The more things change…
Finally, actor and comedian Brett Gelman (Eagleheart) will join Stranger Things’ growing season two ensemble as a disgraced journalist named Murray Bauman who now chases conspiracy theories. One of those theories will lead Bauman to Hawkins to look into a cold case that might just have to do with the Upside Down.
For the doubters in the room who’ve been holding out hope that fan-favorite character Barb will be back, Stranger Things' New York Comic Con panel, held on October 7, had disappointing news. David Harbour, who plays police chief Jim Hopper, made it clear she won't return: “I can assure you that Barb is very much dead.”
But Harbour also recently appeared on a Stranger Things panel held during a fan-convention cruise called Fan2Sea, and while there, he dropped some intriguing information about season two’s plot.
According to Hollywood Life, Harbour said that Barb will continue to play a major part in the narrative, with Barb’s best friend Nancy doing her best to make sure people remember her.
“The question and the feelings that Nancy has that no one ever cares about her friend Barb are very much present in the beginning of the season,” he said, noting that “Justice for Barb” would be a theme.
In Stranger Things’ first season, 12-year-old Will Byers was the frequent subject of homophobic harassment and schoolyard bullying. Though we don't know Will's orientation, much speculation and commentary has been devoted to this potential aspect of his character.
After watching the conversation build, Noah Schnapp decided to weigh in himself. In an Instagram post, he wrote that the character's sexuality was “beside the point,” that hopefully everyone could “relate to being different,” and that he hoped Stranger Things will never actually answer the question.
“A good book, or a good show leaves a lot of unanswered questions but makes you think,” he said.
The adventure continues. Stranger Things 2 is coming 2017. pic.twitter.com/3H4WR3DGEj
In a video Netflix released on August 31, fans were treated to a sneak peek at the titles for all nine episodes of season two, which will feature one more installment than the eight-episode first season:
Most of these titles seem to bear directly on the plot. “MadMax” seems to refer to the new character Montgomery plays, while “The Boy Who Came Back to Life” refers to an in-show newspaper headline about Will Byers’s miraculous return from the Upside Down in season one.
What’s clear is that the titles seem to have the ’80s theme firmly in mind, from the direct reference to the film franchise Mad Max to more oblique references to horror tropes found in slasher movies and films like Evil Dead — cabins in the woods, characters coming back from the dead, and scary things lurking in fields and fog.
The new season will pick up in the fall of 1984, a year after the events of Stranger Things season one. One of the reasons the show is jumping forward in time is to keep up with the real-life growth of its younger actors. The result, according to Ross Duffer, is that "[t]hese characters have changed and the audience has to sort of fill in those gaps of what went on in that year."
Though Netflix’s original renewal announcement touted a second season of Stranger Things, the company is billing the season as Stranger Things 2. This implies the second season is more like a second series.
That is, it’s more like a sequel than a continuation of season one. A recent logline for the new season suggests that Stranger Things will be telling new stories with some of the same characters rather than necessarily picking up the old story:
When terrifying supernatural forces once again begin to affect Hawkins, they realize Will's disappearance was only the beginning. And so the adventure continues...
In an interview with Slash Film, Levy described the trajectory of season two as “continu[ing] with this set of characters while introducing a few critical key new ones next season” and “unearthing new problems.”
But there will also be unanswered threads from season one that the show continues to develop — including the following three, as gleaned from the creators in several recent interviews:
Love is in the air for some of Stranger Things’ adult characters — but not everyone is happy about it. Harbour also said during the Fan2Sea panel that Astin’s new character Bob Newby will be Joyce’s new boyfriend. But according to Harbour, Chief Hopper is none too happy about that.
“We have Sean Astin … he’s Winona’s new boyfriend — much to the chagrin [of] the chief of police,” Harbour said.
The first season of Stranger Things notably drew inspiration from the works and ideas of Steven Spielberg, John Carpenter, and Stephen King. The second season, according to the Duffers, will draw inspiration from ’80s action-adventure sequels — specifically, Temple of Doom, The Empire Strikes Back, Aliens, and Terminator 2.
The first two of these films are famous sequels by Spielberg and his frequent ’80s collaborator George Lucas. The others introduce a new influence in the form of James Cameron. Speaking to Entertainment Weekly, Matt Duffer elaborated:
I guess a lot of this is James Cameron. But he’s brilliant. And I think one of the reasons his sequels are as successful as they are is he makes them feel very different without losing what we loved about the original. So I think we kinda looked to him and what he does and tried to capture a little bit of the magic of his work.
In other words, it sounds like anyone looking wanting to know how Stranger Things season two will expand on season one should go watch Ridley Scott’s Alien — famed for its mysteries, cosmic horrors, and suspense with gory payoffs — and then compare it to Cameron’s Aliens. The beloved sequel opts for more blockbuster action sequences, more character development, and more focus on the corrupt corporation whose greed provoked the clash with alien life to begin with. If that sounds similar to the strange research facility doing barbaric science experiments and tampering with the Upside Down in Stranger Things season one, it should.
Stranger Things graced fans at Comic-Con’s massive Hall H on Saturday evening with the reveal of its full trailer for season two.
The trailer centers on Will Byers (Noah Schnapp) and the odd things that have been happening to him since he was returned to his family and the town of Hawkins, Indiana. We already knew Will was going to have a major role to play in the second season, but the new full trailer gives us an idea of just how important he’ll be as he deals with a series of visions of monsters and Lovecraftian cosmic horrors. Meanwhile Mike (Finn Wolfhard) is still trying to find Eleven (Millie Bobby Brown), who seems to be calling to him from within the Upside Down.
It’s also clear the show will be making the most of its October 27 release date. Featuring snippets of Vincent Price’s famous voice-over narration from Michael Jackson’s “Thriller” video over footage of decorative gravestones reading “Trick or Treat,” the trailer kills two birds with one stone — giving you that precious ‘80s vibe while reminding you that it’s Halloween. Our favorite ensemble of kids have also gotten their hands on a real-life ghost trap from Ghostbusters, and it seems to be moving. Maybe that’s just a Halloween prank, but this is Stranger Things, so only time will tell.


Justice League just revealed its third trailer, which has plenty of focus on everyone’s new favorite hero, Wonder Woman, plus a badass grand entrance for Aquaman and his kickass trident — and a mysterious hint at the end that might mean Superman is returning. Plus, it gives us an early glimpse at the villain, Steppenwolf (Ciarán Hinds) and his Parademons.
The previous trailers we’ve seen have been about uniting the team and giving us a glimpse of each hero’s powers. This one focuses on the threat the team will be facing in a world still mourning the death of Superman.
Justice League, directed by Zack Snyder (though Snyder left the project in May to deal with a family tragedy, with Joss Whedon stepping in to finish the film), is an important film for Warner Bros. and DC Comics.
Since Wonder Woman did so phenomenally well at the box office and in critical reviews, it’s up to Justice League to continue the momentum that Diana Prince set in motion. Justice League is also considered Warner Bros.’ equivalent to Marvel’s Avengers.
If Justice League turns out to be a great movie and is critically well-received, it could start a new winning streak for DC and Warner Bros. and lay a confident foundation for the rest of the DC/Warner Bros. cinematic superhero universe.
Justice League is scheduled to hit theaters on November 17, 2017.
This week, Laleh Khadivi — the Iranian-American novelist, filmmaker, and author of A Good Country — answers our questions.
What’s the first piece of media you consume every day?
The NYT front page followed by the local public radio, which somehow takes the same headlines and makes them seem less end-of-the-world.
Name a writer or publication you disagree with but still read.
Harper’s and the New Republic.
Who is the person who has most influenced the way you think?
My parents. As a parent now myself, I am witness to the ways in which my ideas and emotions, passions and furies, affect my children. It is without structure or intention that we are formed by our parents.
When was the last time you changed your mind about something?
Two minutes ago, as I answered the last question.
What’s your worst intellectual habit?
Binary thinking.
What inspires you to learn?
Beauty.
What do you need to believe in order to get through the day?
That a personal dedication to moment-by-moment goodness — in the face of the desire to be petty, selfish, hurried, or tired — will culminate in better weeks, months, years.
What’s a view that you hold but can’t defend?
Procreation. In an era of climate demise.
What book have you recommended the most?
As I Lay Dying, Buddha in the Attic, and Exit West.
You can read last week’s edition of 9 Questions with Courtney Maum here.
Every weekend, we pick a movie you can stream that dovetails with current events. Old, new, blockbuster, arthouse: They’re all fair game. What you can count on is a weekend watch that sheds new light on the week that was. The movie of the week for July 23 through 29 is Night of the Living Dead (1968), which is available to stream on Amazon Prime or digitally rent on YouTube, Amazon, Vudu, iTunes, and Google Play.
In interviews about his smash horror hit Get Out earlier this year, Jordan Peele cited the 1968 zombie film Night of the Living Dead as one of his biggest influences. It’s no wonder. Without the movie — and its director, George Romero, who died on July 16 — we wouldn’t have Get Out or many other classic social thrillers (like Rosemary’s Baby and The Silence of the Lambs), which use the devices of fear and horror to make biting social critiques.
We wouldn’t have The Walking Dead, World War Z, Shaun of the Dead, or Zombieland, either — in Night of the Living Dead and its sequels, Romero invented the rules that guide our modern ideas about zombies: They’re reanimated deceased people who move slowly and have an insatiable desire to eat the living.
Related
A new theatrical release of Night of the Living Dead, the movie that started it all, was already being planned when news of Romero’s death broke. Last year, the Museum of Modern Art and the Film Foundation worked from the film’s original negatives to create a 4K restoration, from the film’s original negatives, which means the projected digital image will be richer and clearer. The new version will premiere in October at New York’s Film Forum before expanding to other theaters.
Night of the Living Dead is relatively simple in its execution, and it was cheap to make when it was produced in the late ’60s, with a budget of only $114,000. The story follows a woman named Barbara (played by Judith O’Dea), who travels with her brother to visit her father’s grave, only to be attacked by a man in the cemetery who kills her brother. She flees the scene and arrives at a farmhouse, where she ends up hiding with several people, including a man named Ben (Duane Jones).
The group discovers via news reports that the bodies of the freshly dead are being reanimated, perhaps because of radioactive contamination from a space probe that recently returned from Venus. And, well — it doesn’t turn out particularly well for anyone.
But the real drama isn’t in fighting the zombies; it’s in what happens inside the house as the still-alive people disagree vehemently about what they should do in the face of the “living dead” outside. That’s why some critics and scholars have interpreted the film as a critique of Cold War politics, American society in the 1960s, and, especially, racism.
Jones, who played Ben, is an African-American man, and though Romero always said he hadn’t intended to make the film about race — insisting that Jones simply gave the best audition — it’s impossible to escape that this is a film about a black man trapped in a house with white people who can’t seem to fend off the danger themselves. But after managing to survive the zombies, Ben is shot by a white sheriff.
Talking about Night of the Living Dead’s Ben and his own film’s black protagonist, Get Out’s Chris, Peele said:
Theoretically, their racial perspective is the very skill that helps them. You could write an interesting essay about how the lead in “Night of the Living Dead” is a man living in fear every day, so this is a challenge he is more equipped to take on than the white women living in the house. Chris, in his racial paranoia, is onto something that he wouldn’t be if he was a white guy and there was a similar thing going on.
That Romero didn’t initially realize that the film — whether or not he intended it — works as a critique of racism in America has had long-reaching effects in the zombie genre; as Matt Thompson wrote for NPR’s Code Switch blog in 2013, the video game version of The Walking Dead also features a black protagonist named Lee, which adds power to the storytelling. “When non-black characters in the story decide whether or not they trust Lee (trust being the most essential human currency after the zombie apocalypse),” Thompson writes, “the racial difference between them stands out as a generally unspoken consideration.”
Romero’s long career of filmmaking (which included serving as a producer on several remakes of his own films) established him as a master of horror. But Night of the Living Dead started it all. It didn’t just provide a template for social thrillers and zombies; it also inspired a subtle and important way of integrating race into those stories. His first, searing foray into the world of zombies — and the inadvertent casting choice he made — truly secured his legacy.
Watch the trailer for Night of the Living Dead:
Welcome to the weekly Vox book link roundup, a curated selection of the best writing online about books and related topics. Here’s the best the internet has to offer for the week of July 16, 2017.
In short, Austen’s empathetic portrayals of women in love are just as powerful as her caustic wit. The entire plot of each book hinges on at least one potential love match, featuring well-developed, charming heroes and heroines, which makes it easy to engage with them on the level of a romance novel. The romantic angle of Austen is easier to pick up on, and to replicate, than her social commentary.
It is the women, here, who do the bulk of the watching. And it is the men, here, who are generally the objects of their lookings: They are mysteries to be solved, puzzles whose pictures reveal themselves, with patience and time, piece by piece. Darcy is rich, and Darcy is handsome, and Darcy is terrible, and Darcy perhaps is more complicated than he first seemed, and Darcy is kind, and Darcy is a savior, and Darcy is whoa omg kind of amazing, and the plot moves to reveal each tantalizingly curved and occasionally interlocking piece until Lizzy, and thus the reader, is finally able to create a satisfying picture.
Unlike the rest of the family, prattling about feelings and manners and values and wit (yes, I mean you, Lizzie), she takes the plight of her children seriously, and she works tirelessly to ensure their futures. She schemes endless scenarios to endear her daughters to men of means, at one point orchestrating Jane’s prolonged illness (and thus residence) at Mr. Bingley’s Netherfield estate, at another attempting to force Elizabeth into an unhappy marriage with her cousin Mr. Collins, and at every chance throwing Lydia and Kitty toward an endless parade of military officers. Not all of her efforts are successful, to be sure, but marriage is a numbers game, and the Bennet matriarch is the sole, the necessary pragmatist in a house filled with idle dreamers.
What is most incredible about Jane Austen is that a couple of goofy novelist/booksellers can get so giddy about her books 200 years after her death. For those of us who write books that get published in the warmer months of the year, whose covers are splashed with bright colors and merchandised with inflatable beach balls, it is Jane who we’re channeling, Jane who we’re praying to, Jane whose wit we wish to possess.
Yet other titles appear to be equally relevant. John Brunner’s Club of Rome Quartet — comprised of the novels Stand on Zanzibar, The Jagged Orbit, The Sheep Look Up, and The Shockwave Rider — was released in the late 1960s and ’70s and correctly predicted, respectively, overpopulation, a U.S. mired in weapons proliferation and interracial violence, pollution-related ecological disasters, and the emergence of computer viruses.
Lithuanians went to great lengths to conceal their illegal books. The Forty Years of Darkness by Juozas Vaišnora reports of female smugglers who dressed as beggars and hid books in sacks of cheese, eggs, or bread. Some even strapped tool belts to their waists and pretended to be craftsmen, disguising newspapers under their thick clothes.
Happy reading!
The 1940 Battle of Dunkirk — when 330,000 British and Allied forces, surrounded by the enemy, were evacuated in a way that seems almost miraculous — was almost instantly turned into legend by the British press. Of particular interest were the “little ships” that sailed into danger, and the ordinary people who piloted them in order to help shuttle troops onto the larger boats that stood ready to bring them to English shores. The “little ships” were a fixed point of courage for the weary civilians to brace against as they held the line at home.
The events of the battle have been dramatized stirringly several times since — most notably in the 1958 movie Dunkirk, the 1964 French film Weekend at Dunkirk, and the 2007 Atonement, with its indelible five-minute sweeping shot over the beach. And earlier this year, the film Their Finest dramatized how the story could be polished, humanized, and smoothed out for inspirational movies made by the Ministry of Information to prop up the embattled spirits of the British people, who were living in the shadow of air raids and unsure if they’d make it to the next morning.
Rating
But it seems that in approaching the story, Christopher Nolan sensed that it was more than a historical event. His extraordinary Dunkirk, a true cinematic achievement, backs off conventional notions of narrative and chronology as much as possible, while leaning headfirst into everything else that makes a movie a visceral work of art aimed at the senses: the images, the sounds, the scale, the swelling vibrations of it all. You can’t smell the sea spray, but your brain may trick you into thinking you can.
Nolan’s camera pushes the edges of the screen as far as it can — you must see this movie in IMAX and on film, rather than digital, if at all possible — as Dunkirk engulfs the audience in something that feels a lot more like a symphony than a war movie. (Nolan’s fruitful collaboration with composer Hans Zimmer certainly helps.) There are movements and pizzicato riffs that shift from guns to violins and back again. Shouts and pauses might as well be written into the score. Sometimes it’s not clear if the rumble you feel in your stomach is a sustained double bass or the engine of a fighter plane.
If the result holds individual characters at a bit of a remove, then, it isn’t by accident. The enormity of the potential destruction, and the scale of the evacuation and defensive military action, would likely be hampered if the film indulged in too much narrative buildup or character backstory. Dunkirk wants us to sense what made this moment so pivotal without reducing it to an individual tale. And at that, it succeeds richly.
Note: Mild spoilers for Dunkirk follow.
Dunkirk follows an ensemble cast who play characters not just in three different places but in three different timelines. It gives viewers only the narrative broad strokes, and then trusts them to track its many characters for the rest of the film, assisting them through the use of light and darkness as visual clues, and showing the same events from different perspectives.
Those broad strokes: There are two young soldiers (Aneurin Barnard and Fionn Whitehead) who cross paths, and we follow them over a week as they try to get off the beach, eventually falling in with a pack of soldiers led by a charismatic young man (Harry Styles). A colonel (Kenneth Branagh) directs operations from a pier extending into the sea. Then there are the ships at sea, particularly a fishing boat named the Moonstone piloted by a man (Mark Rylance) and his son (Tom Glynn-Carney), aided by a young man named George (Barry Keoghan). And finally, there are a few fighter pilots in the air (Tom Hardy and Jack Lowden), whom we follow over an hour as they try to take down German planes and provide cover.
This nonlinear approach is no surprise coming from Nolan, who has a history of playing with time and viewer expectations in films ranging from Memento (which is told nonlinearly) to Interstellar (which utilizes cyclical time as part of its internal logic).
Unlike some of Nolan’s other films, like The Prestige, Dunkirk isn’t trying to trick the viewer into believing something, only to pull the rug out from under them. But while comparatively straightforward, his nonlinear approach still makes the film more difficult to follow than the typical war movie, and Nolan may lose points with some for not taking a strictly chronological approach to the story — which he’s already crafting with an uncharacteristically direct sense of purpose, for a director who’s known for being a bit of a trickster. But in settling the story onto three planes of time and having them all converge on each other near the end, Dunkirk pulls off a feat unusual to its genre.
World War II movies (and historical war movies in general) tend to narrow their focus to one man, or maybe a few, and that often works; we’re made to care about a soldier because of where he came from, what he left at home, and who he is. We’re meant to sympathize with him and thus want him to live. And if he’s a hero, then the film’s drama and tension — and, usually, inspirational triumph — come from watching this person whom we’ve come to care about succeed. In short, we’re expected to care about this person because they’ve become, however temporarily, a sort of friend.
The closest that Dunkirk comes to this mode of storytelling is in the fishing boat sections, where three men who aren’t part of the military don’t have to be asked twice to head off and do their duty. But even then, we get scant information about them — enough to make us care about their fates, but not much more.
For the soldiers, we get even less. They exist in this moment, and are nearly anonymous to the audience otherwise: All we know is they don’t want to die, but they’re almost positive this is the end. And because the film is so immersive, we feel that desire alongside them. Shells drop from the sky near them and they barely duck, dulled to the danger by being bathed in it for so long. The drive to survive is all they have, and they barely even have that: At one point, we watch a man stride across the surf-covered beach, shed his helmet and pack, and swim directly into the surf. Survival is the only desire, and it grows dim. That it doesn’t flicker out entirely is a miracle.
The converging planes of time in Dunkirk help underline how serendipitous, even providential, the battle’s end result actually was. Some of it was attributable to skill, to pilots who could take out a bomber and captains who could maneuver ships through choppy seas. Some of it was courage: colonels who stayed till the end, young men still in their teens willing and ready to do whatever they could. And some of it was just good timing — everyone doing whatever they could do as boldly as they could do it, and all the pieces adding up to a whole.
Yet Dunkirk is not a solely triumphant film. There’s something about the enormity of the image (and the richness of the stock it’s shot on) that feels apocalyptic, especially with Zimmer’s score wrestling its way through the collateral noise of war.
These are familiar images to us from past movies: the broad, sweeping beach with its lines of soldiers hoping for deliverance, and the coast of England just on the other side of the water. But the nearness of death and the grim looks on the men’s faces, mixed with fire and falling bombs and drowning, feels less like watching a historical event than the end of the world. That makes the appearance of civilians in small boats feel like angels coming over the horizon, as the soldiers on the beach must have felt.
But the film’s brief coda is an essential caveat to all of this. Nobody knew, at Dunkirk, how the war would end. The soldiers leave with their heads low, feeling defeated, as indeed they were. The civilian sailors went home and waited for what would happen next. Invasion seemed imminent and victory by no means a given.
From the distance of history, we can tend to forget this, ascribing a kind of triumphalism to the end of the war and fooling ourselves into thinking that the “good guys” will always win. And though we know what happens after Dunkirk ends, the ending feels ambiguous, not wrapped up neatly at all.
Dunkirk is a symphony for the brave and broken, and it resolves in a major key — but one with an undercurrent of sorrow, and of sober warning. Courage in the face of danger is not just for characters in movies.
Dunkirk opens in theaters on July 21.
This article has been updated to clarify the role of one of the film’s characters in the plot.
“Every possible series of events is happening all at once,” Littlefinger tells Sansa Stark in the newly released trailer for the rest of Game of Thrones season seven, which HBO unveiled at a Friday-evening Comic-Con panel after it was leaked online earlier in the day.
Related
He could have just as well been talking about the trailer itself, a “weeks ahead preview” that races through the show’s various groups of characters to show us alliances and armies coming together throughout Westeros in the coming season, as Daenerys makes her play for the throne and the North tries to defend itself against the Night King and his ice zombie horde.
"If we don't band together we will die."Watch the #GoTS7 "Weeks Ahead Preview" released in Hall H at #SDCC2017. #GoTSDCC #GameofThrones pic.twitter.com/VdXMwF7R1n
Among the most notable moments in the trailer:
This is a fateful moment for the show, since it indicates that Melisandre will help bring Jon Snow and Daenerys together for what will undoubtedly be Game of Thrones’ most significant partnership. (While she undoubtedly believes Jon is the fabled “prince that was promised,” a recent fan theory has posited that she could be wrong, thanks to the Hound’s powerful redemption arc.) This is the alliance fans have been waiting for since Season 1 — or 1996, if you were following the fantasy novel series first.
AMC unveiled its trailer for season 8 of The Walking Dead at its Friday Comic-Con panel, and while it shows Rick, Daryl, and the rest of our Alexandria heroes united with their groups of allies and determined to fight against Negan and the Saviors, it doesn’t do much to allay fears that the show has become mired in a swamp of inaction with no way out.
The season 8 trailer is … weird. It’s nearly five minutes long, and while there are some good moments — namely Daryl shooting things, Carol wearing body armor, and a newly badass Tara pointing her gun at something just offscreen and whispering “bang” — most of the trailer is just everyone standing around talking about fighting. In case you need a refresher, this is basically what they did for all of season 7.
Then there's a bonus scene at the end — and it’s this moment that’s really freaking out the Walking Dead fandom. We’re treated to three hazy shots in succession: a cane leaning against a wall, a man lying in what could be either a bed or a casket, surrounded by flowers, and then an overhead shot of Rick, revealed to be the person lying in that bed or casket, sporting a long Rip Van Winkle-esque beard. Is the scene implying that Rick is dead, or merely having a dream about dying, or about being back in the hospital bed where the series began?
Most likely what’s happening is that Dead is teasing fans that they might be about to get a famous plot event from the comics — which we’re about to spoil.
In The Walking Dead comics, after the famous battle between the Alexandrians and Negan, there’s a major time jump to over two years later, when Rick and company have established control of the area and are living in relative peace. Andrew Lincoln and showrunner Scott Gimple have been teasing the time jump for quite a while now, though it’s unlikely that they’d do it in the middle of the season.
However, Lincoln did state in a February interview that “also, maybe in a couple of episodes’ time, there may be a jump ahead in the curve and maybe setting themselves to that job at hand” — the “job at hand” being repopulating the world and living in peace (and, for Rick at least, presumably growing that long-ass beard).
The Fear the Walking Dead and Walking Dead panels also honored the late stuntman John Bernecker, who was fatally injured while filming a fight scene on the TWD set. The two panels respectively featured a moment of silence and a tribute from Gimple, who called him “beloved in the stunt community.”
In February 2014, a study from the Center for Media and Public Affairs at George Mason University analyzed Jay Leno’s jokes during his 12-year tenure as host of The Tonight Show. The goal was to see whom he’d targeted the most, separating political figures from celebrities.
To nobody’s surprise — given that Leno hosted the show from 1992 to 2014 — the No. 1 political figure Leno targeted was Bill Clinton. Hillary Clinton came in at No. 5. And the No. 1 celebrity target?
O.J. Simpson, of course.
The former football star, and his high-profile murder case, didn’t just dominate headlines for most of 1995. He was, for years, a surefire way to land a punchline for comedians ranging from Leno to Dana Carvey to Chris Rock to Dave Chappelle, not to mention The Simpsons. His sensational 11-month murder trial, and all of the weird, instantly iconic moments surrounding it — the white Ford Bronco, the glove, the media’s fixation on Marcia Clark’s appearance, the spectacle of it all — gave comedians too much fodder to ignore.
The actual details of the case started to recede from public memory shortly after Simpson’s 1995 acquittal, bubbling up again only periodically: in 1997, when a civil case was decided against Simpson; in 2006, when his “hypothetical confession,” a book called If I Did It, was announced by a publisher and then rejiggered after outcry; and in 2007 and 2008, when Simpson was arrested and later convicted of multiple felonies in a case involving a Las Vegas robbery, for which he was sentenced to 33 years in prison. He’s been serving time in a Nevada penitentiary since then.
Simpson, who turned 70 on July 9, appeared before the Nevada Parole Board on Thursday to seek early release from prison. His request was granted, and his parole is slated to begin in October. Guards have called him a model inmate. All of the major news networks as well as ESPN provided coverage of and commentary on the hearings. And, taking it up a notch, Fox News engaged the notoriously racist ex-cop Mark Fuhrman to provide commentary.
By law, the parole board can’t factor Simpson’s murder case into its decision, nor was the murder case allowed as a consideration during Simpson’s 2007-’08 trial for the incident in Las Vegas.
But this is O.J. Simpson. Prior to last year, many people under the age of 35 had little more than a vague memory of Simpson’s murder trial being splashed across the tabloid headlines next to the Snickers bars at the grocery store; what they grew up knowing was that Simpson probably murdered someone, and he was a punchline. When he went to jail for an entirely unrelated crime in 2008, they may not have even remembered that he was once a football star.
My, how times have changed. In 2016, O.J. Simpson experienced an extraordinary pop cultural rebirth, and became so integral to the cultural conversation in the ensuing year that Jay-Z recently rapped about (and dissed) Simpson in a whole track, “The Story of O.J.,” on his new album, 4:44:
The story of O.J. was inescapable in 2016, because two high-profile, highly lauded TV series — one documentary, one docudrama — premiered in the first half of the year, and then raked in awards at the Emmys, Oscars, and Golden Globes. But FX’s The People v. O.J. Simpson: American Crime Story and ESPN’s O.J.: Made in America were not only critically acclaimed; separately and together, they crystallized many of the forces from the 1990s that came roaring back during 2016.
Both of those series revealed what made O.J. Simpson but also many of the fault lines and rails that are still live issues today, and they reinterpreted Simpson to a new generation. For people watching at home, they served as reintroductions not just to the real story of Simpson the punchline, but to the 1990s too.
Now, as Simpson faces parole, public perception of him is through an entirely new lens, and one that feels directly relevant to 2017.
If you were born in 1980, you were only 15 when O.J. was convicted. You were only 12 years old when Nicole Brown Simpson filed for divorce, three months before Leno took over The Tonight Show in 1992. He started hosting just weeks after the Rodney King riots ended and just weeks before his future favorite punching bag, Bill Clinton, would be named the Democratic candidate for president of the United States. Later that year, you could have seen Home Alone 2: Lost in New York in movie theaters, featuring a cameo from real estate mogul Donald Trump.
Anyone who was 12 in 1992 couldn’t have anticipated what would happen two years later: that on June 12, 1994, Nicole Brown and her friend Ron Goldman would turn up dead outside of Brown’s Brentwood condo, stabbed to death, and that the “trial of the century” would follow. Nobody anticipated the media circus and nationwide fascination with the 11-month case against the former star, or the long shadow it would cast.
The trial of O.J. Simpson brought together many factors that had been fomenting in the country for years. Racial tensions and suspicions about police bias were finally breaking into the consciousness of the country at large. Cults of celebrity built around fame in sports, onscreen, and for its own sake were reaching new heights. It was clear that the justice system treated both white people and wealthy people differently from everyone else. Uproar over the double standard that American society applied to men and to women, especially professional women, was no longer considered only a matter for fringe politics. And the urge to televise and sensationalize news that didn’t really help anyone, because of ratings, was turning news into infotainment.
Related
All of these factors came together in the O.J. Simpson murder trial. But it’s always hard to really make out what’s happening in the moment. More than 20 years after Simpson’s acquittal, though, things became more clear. In many ways, the 1990s sketched out the blueprint for America circa 2016 — not just the Clinton shenanigans and the Simpson trial and the Rodney King riots, but all kinds of events, fears, rhetoric, and personalities.
FX’s scripted drama The People v. O.J. Simpson came at the Simpson story by casting actors in the roles of the “characters” people remember from watching the trial on TV. (As some critics have written, it’s not a stretch to say that the wall-to-wall trial coverage, with its twists and cliffhangers, invented the way we watch TV today.) The show even brilliantly cast actors we tend to associate with the 1990s on O.J’s side of the courtroom: John Travolta as Robert Shapiro, Courtney B. Vance as Johnnie Cochran, and David Schwimmer as Robert Kardashian, with Cuba Gooding Jr. as the Juice himself.
This character-based approach was a good tactic for digging into O.J.’s story, because it not only let viewers experience what was happening but asked them to assemble the pieces themselves. As Vox’s Todd VanDerWerff put it:
The story, in other words, is sort of like a Venn diagram intersection of every single issue that gets under this country's skin and makes it act up. That's part of why the case monopolized the national dialogue in the mid-'90s. But The People vs. O.J. Simpson doesn't overplay its hand. It relies on the audience to tease out most of these ideas, focusing on the strange ironies and odd moments at the heart of the story.
It was particularly helpful in the case of lead prosecutor Marcia Clark (Sarah Paulson) and co-prosecutor Christopher Darden (Sterling K. Brown), both of whom came in for brutal, public criticism during the trial. A televised trial does the exact opposite of humanizing its participants; instead, it reduces them to the two-dimensional figures we see on our TV screens. And because we’re seeing them in the same medium as a soap opera or a court drama, we think about them the same way: as characters to be discussed and dissected. We think we can psychologize them.
But of course, we can’t. The People v. O.J. Simpson humanized Clark and Darden — and, in many ways, the rest of the trial’s major players, especially Kardashian — by letting them reclaim their own stories in the same medium in which they were introduced to us. If you’ve watched The People v. O.J. Simpson, you’ll never think of Clark again without thinking of Paulson’s interpretation of her: strong, determined, and totally shattered by what she encounters both inside the courtroom and outside of it.
Are these characters all “real”? Depends on what you mean by that. By nature, the show took liberties with some details, imagining conversations and interactions. It even slipped in the suggestion that Clark and Darden were romantically involved — because what’s a TV show without a romantic subplot, whether it’s an FX drama or a nationally televised murder trial?
Then again, the “characters” on TV during Simpson’s trial in 1995 weren’t “real,” either. They were just people doing their jobs while the whole country watched and judged them. They were as much figures built for fanfictions as actual living, breathing humans. The People v. O.J. Simpson may not have created perfectly accurate representations of those characters, but it did serve as a kind of reboot — and it gave to a generation of people too young to remember the trial (if they were even born when it happened) a new idea of who was involved.
It’s remarkable that The People v. O.J. Simpson and Ezra Edelman’s masterful documentary series O.J.: Made in America could have premiered mere months apart and neither one been ruined. But it worked. As VanDerWerff wrote:
It’s amazing how well the two projects complement each other, almost as if you couldn't get the full picture without watching both — even though they were produced completely independently.
Where The People v. O.J. focuses on the personalities involved in the trial and makes O.J. a cipher, Made in America turns the trial into just a smaller part of its overall tapestry ... It's focused on context and on Simpson himself, on the nation that could build up such a figure and then tear him down.
Each of Made in America’s five episodes is the length of a feature film. Where The People v. O.J. picks up just days before the murders, O.J.: Made in America stretches all the way back to the beginning of Simpson’s life. Using archival footage and interviews, it carefully traces the ways the football star’s talent — and the color of his skin — came together to create his particular celebrity, all while most other black Americans were having a very different kind of experience.
For people who are old enough to remember Simpson’s heyday as a USC football star and Heisman Trophy recipient, not to mention his career in the NFL, much of Made in America might feel more like a refresher than an education.
But — in a touch that seems almost too dramatically perfect — Simpson was awarded the Heisman in 1968, one of the most turbulent years in American history: a year lived in the shadow of the Vietnam War, the civil rights movement, high-profile political activism, the assassinations of Martin Luther King Jr. and presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy, and the election of Richard Nixon.
In a key moment in Made in America, someone says that if you were at USC in 1968, all you remember is O.J. winning the Heisman. It’s a clue to the parallel existence that celebrity, fame, and money allowed Simpson to have, even after the murder trial.
Throughout its nearly eight-hour run time, O.J.: Made in America puts Simpson at the center of a cultural picture that’s pieced together from issues surrounding race, gender, celebrity, sports, Hollywood, advertising, the justice system, and the media. The result can only be a staggering conclusion: that when America made O.J., and then tore him down, it was the start of a kind of celebrity backlash cycle that only sped up as the internet and social media gained speed.
It’s depressing, but also illuminating to see the dots connected. None of these things have gone away. If anything, they’ve accelerated.
If 2016 proved anything, it was that being famous — which is to say, being on TV a lot — is a great way to get away with more than your average American. It also conclusively proved that the 24/7 infotainment-driven news cycle, where the lines between what’s real and what’s fake are blurred so much that they’re just a mass of gray, can hamper journalism, politics, and the very nature of truth in huge ways.
And the social injustices that were roiling in the 1990s haven’t gone away. The Black Lives Matter movement, alongside staggering police-involved shootings, especially of young black men, has demonstrated that the struggle of black Americans for equal treatment under the law is far from over. Women have not yet reached equal footing in professional settings. Celebrity and wealth can still insulate defendants in court — including figures like Bill Cosby (whose Cosby Show ended in 1992, and whose trial for sexual assault ended with a deadlocked jury earlier this year) and R. Kelly (who won three Grammys in 1998 for “I Believe I Can Fly,” and was found not guilty of making child pornography in 2008).
But it’s also weird, and a little creepy, that many figures from the 1990s became major figures once again in 2016. It’s hard to ascribe Donald Trump purely to one decade, since he so assiduously kept himself in the limelight, but his preference for bombast and ornately gilded surroundings seems of a piece with the decade.
And then there were the Clintons. Without the 1990s, it’s hard to say what Hillary Clinton’s chances would have been in her presidential run against Trump, but it’s certainly true that much of the rhetoric against her had its roots in similar rhetoric from the 1990s, when you could wander down the beachside boardwalk in New Jersey on a summer night and see T-shirts emblazoned with lines like “I can’t stand President Clinton, or her husband Bill.” And in a surreal spectacle before one presidential debate, Trump brought several women who have accused Bill Clinton of sexual harassment and rape to a press conference.
Other figures popped up too, like Rudy Giuliani, who was a controversial mayor of New York City in the 1990s. Or Newt Gingrich, who was speaker of the House during much of Bill Clinton’s tenure and in 2016 became a Trump supporter. Or Trump confidant and adviser Roger Stone, who figured prominently in Republican politics in the 1990s until his tabloid appearances forced him out of the Bob Dole campaign and politics (but for only a short while).
Even white evangelical support for Trump held echoes of the 1990s. The Moral Majority — founded by the now-late Jerry Falwell, father of huge Trump fan Jerry Falwell Jr. — was perhaps the organization most responsible for the marriage of white evangelical Protestantism in America to the Republican Party. And though it technically was disbanded in 1989, its influence still reached far into the 1990s, particularly in influencing opinion during the Clinton impeachment hearings.
Though the Moral Majority has never been revived, its influence is easy to spot in the 2016 election, which itself served as a retroactive referendum on the Majority’s former “character matters” proclamation as well as an indication of how out of step white evangelicals are with their nonwhite brethren in their perceptions of America.
The rails on which 2016 ran — and 2017 is running — were built in the 1990s, and they crystallized in the person of O.J. Simpson. But it was hard to detect, back then, what shape the future would take. From a distance, it’s clearer how all the pieces fit together.
And the revival of O.J.’s pop culture influence in 2016 means that “characters” we only experienced as TV courtroom figures (if we experienced them at all) are now different. Hopefully, they’re richer, fuller, and more complex — more person than caricature.
But even those shows shape the way we now see Simpson, as he comes up for parole as a 70-year-old man who probably never anticipated spending his life as both the embodiment and the target of America’s id. No longer is he the guy on the football field, or the guy in the courtroom, or the punchline on The Tonight Show.
Now O.J. Simpson is the centerpiece of America’s past and present psyche. And that may be a new evolution in what it means to be a celebrity made in America.
As William Faulkner wrote in 1951, “The past is never dead. It’s not even past.”
The People v. O.J. Simpson: American Crime Story is available to stream on Netflix. O.J.: Made in America is available to stream on Hulu and digitally rent on Amazon.
This story was updated to reflect the results of Simpson’s parole hearing on July 20.
In case you’ve been living under a rock, here’s what’s up with “Despacito,” which you’ve undoubtedly heard even from under that rock.
The summer’s Spanish-language megahit from Puerto Rican musician Luis Fonsi and guest Daddy Yankee has been taking over the internet at, ironically, lightning speeds. (“Despacito” means “slowly.”) This week it became the most-streamed song of all time, racking up a staggering 4.6 billion listens across the internet’s streaming services. It’s currently poised to fly past Wiz Khalifa’s “See You Again” on YouTube to become the site’s most-viewed video of all time, and possibly the first YouTube video in history to reach 3 billion views.
“Despacito’s” rise is a long time coming — it’s the first Spanish-language chart topper since 1996’s “Macarena.” And although Fonsi’s hit got an English-language remix featuring Justin Bieber, it may not have actually been an assist: Bieber’s version only has a paltry 430 million YouTube plays, and Bieber subsequently had to stop singing the song on tour due to audiences’ displeasure that he didn’t know the Spanish lyrics and kept singing “blah blah blah” onstage instead.
Clearly the public loves the unadulterated “Despacito.” And on the internet, that love has spawned more things to love.
Among them is this ridiculously cute meme based on a line from the song (whose lyrics are, when translated, mainly about sex). In the bridge, Fonsi sings, “Que le enseñes a mi boca tus lugares favoritos,” which translates to, “Show my mouth to your favorite places.” Presumably, Fonsi means “places on your body,” but Spanish meme makers have had other ideas. Why not show Luis Fonsi’s mouth the Statue of Liberty, or the pyramids, or Dubai?
en la parte de la canción de despacito que dice "que le enseñes a mi boca tus lugares favoritos" me imagino esto jajajajsja pic.twitter.com/kuCEcIX8Vu
“Despacito” is a mouthful of juicily complicated lyrics even before you get to Daddy Yankee’s rhyme-heavy rap. The part everybody seems to actually know comes at the end of Daddy Yankee’s solo and is repeated throughout the back half of the song:
Pasito a pasito, suave suavecito
Nos vamos pegando, poquito a poquito
These suddenly simple, relatively easy-to-remember lyrics in the middle of this complicated song stand out, and are therefore prime fodder for meme-ification. A Spanish meme featuring Gandhi making an inspirational speech that veers off into “pasito a pasito, suave suavecito” has been making the rounds, and everyone else seems to be getting in on the game:
Few things delight me more than hearing my 3yo sing "poquito,poquito, suave, suavecito" to himself under his breath.
Des pa ci to, suave suavecito    pic.twitter.com/30Qqt98zAp
...PASITO A PASITO SUAVE SUAVECITO NOS VAMOS PEGANDO POQUITO A POQUITO!!! pic.twitter.com/4zReeRdtiw
- Pasito a pasito, suave suavecito, no vamo pegando poquito a poquito..+ ¡Quita bicho! pic.twitter.com/M1Q0zmjwjY
The song has also inspired a glut of wildly different covers, from Luis Graziatto’s viral “smooth” saxophone cover to YouTube musician Julie Anne San Jose’s all-Latina version of the remix:
Despacito ❤️ 
He take despacito to sexy level       
Epic ending    
its simply magical   

credit Graziatto
By far the strangest cover is the eerie autotuned remix of President Trump that went viral earlier this week.
Best Version Ever
But by far the best contribution to the “Despacito” craze is this adorable montage by internet celebrity kid Niana Guerrero, one half of Filipino celebrity siblings Ranz and Niana. Her brother Ranz Kyle apparently knows just how to get her to dance — every single time.
Everytime this song plays haha! Hit that Despacito!
It’s always a big deal when a multicultural ditty crosses language barriers and makes waves, but it’s especially pertinent now, when, as Fonsi told the BBC, “people want to divide us. They want to build walls.” In fact, among the multiple parodies of the song, one of the most successful is “Ese Gringo,” a barbed comedic address to President Trump about his attempts to disenfranchise Latinx people as well as women, Muslims, mutants, androids, and other alien species.
“Despacito’s” border-crossing internet success is a reminder that while “they” might succeed in building physical walls, they’ll have to work a lot harder to separate us where it really counts: in our hearts, minds, and social media feeds.
I’m tired of people still defending R. Kelly.
Singer, songwriter, and R&B producer Robert Sylvester Kelly has come under fire once again for sexual abuse of young women. This time, he allegedly held young women as young as 18 captive in what some of their parents call a sex “cult.” These women allegedly live in houses owned by Kelly where every aspect of their lives is controlled — down to what they eat and when they have sex with him.
This isn’t the first time R. Kelly has been accused of something like this. More than a decade ago, he was seen on video urinating on a teenager’s face and engaging in other sexual acts with her. Her close friend identified her and said she began visiting Kelly and receiving money from him at age 12, though she was presumed to be about 14 at the time of the video recording.
In a 2008 interview with Touré, a journalist who covers various aspects of popular culture, Kelly stated a very clear preference for teen girls and made no qualms about it, asking, "When you say teenage, how old are we talking?”
After everything that’s come out about him, I’m still seeing social media posts defending him. People claim that they love his music and aren’t bothered, or fire back that he was never convicted nine years ago. It’s hard for me to believe that if the victims were young white girls, there would be the same reaction.
From what we’ve learned, it's clear that R. Kelly's actions and attitudes toward young women are at best inappropriate, and at worst potentially abusive. So why do artists continue to collaborate with Kelly, despite years of shocking allegations against him? Why do concert venues continue to book his tours, and why do listeners thoughtlessly buy his albums? Why has the music industry continued to enable him and other artists by separating the music from the man?
Why is R. Kelly still a thing?
In an investigative report published on Monday, BuzzFeed interviewed parents and friends of women believed to be so deeply involved with Kelly that they may be under some type of psychological and/or physically abusive control by him. Their fears are made worse by witnesses claiming they have seen Kelly physically abuse these women when they don’t comply with his orders. Kelly has also limited or banned their phone access. Without communication from their girls, concerned parents are desperate for assurance that their daughters aren’t being harmed.
I want to first extend my support to the parents. As a parent, I know that if my child were missing or involved in what I perceived to be an unhealthy situation, I would seek as much help as I could to get him back home safely. And as a black parent, I know that we don’t get the attention and support we need to bring our children, who make up 42 percent of those missing in America, and other loved ones back home safely.
The media won’t tell our stories, though, at least not in the ways reporters focus on white women in peril. We rarely hear about missing black girls. The explanation for the lack of coverage? Media outlets claim they choose to cover stories they believe their watchers will relate to most — the “Missing White Girl Syndrome.”
It’s a piss-poor excuse and further dehumanizes black people and our lives by erasing our experiences from public knowledge. Missing white children are still afforded their innocence and deemed damsels in distress, while black girls are “less innocent” and pegged as runaway prostitutes, drug abusers, or some other description meant to demean them and strip them of humanity and innocence. Just search “missing girl” on Google Images and you’ll see pictures of white women only.
When men are suspected of preying on women of color, the victims and their parents are often blamed first. In the past few days, I’ve witnessed a lot of this sentiment on Twitter and Facebook regarding R. Kelly’s victims. Some say that with all of the allegations against Kelly in the past, parents shouldn’t let their children go around him. I wish I could say I am surprised by this reaction, but I’m not.
People are far more willing to chastise others for not protecting themselves and their children from harmful people than they are willing to chastise the harmful person, especially if that person is a wealthy, successful black man like Bill Cosby. From the moment R. Kelly married Aaliyah, an R&B singer who was 15 at the time, he has managed to escape evisceration for his violations of young black women — perhaps in part because it happened in a time before social media scrutiny.
As an advocate for women and girls, I’ve heard all of the “but his music!” excuses before. There is no song recorded by R. Kelly that makes me think defending him is more important than protecting vulnerable black girls from harm.
“He wasn’t convicted!” they cry. I respond: “Neither was George Zimmerman.” When it comes to race-based violence, everyone rallies against the oppression of racism, but when it comes to gender-based violence, people are slow to rally and quick to ask, “Why was she there, though?”
I’m often under fire for calling on people to face the truth that black women and girls are underrepresented and often ignored in mainstream feminist discussions about violence against all women and girls. And within our own black communities, calling out violence perpetrated by black boys and men is seen as an act of treason — I and other prominent black feminists have been vilified for calling attention to violence that feels epidemic.
We’re not supposed to talk about it, especially not to nonblack “outsiders.” We’re supposed to keep these secrets “in house” and do less calling out and more coddling. We unapologetically reject that demand and, as a consequence, catch hell from all sides for condemning white feminists and anti-feminist black men alike for the lack of support given to black women.
Do white people even acknowledge R. Kelly as a prominent artist the way black people do, outside of “I Believe I Can Fly” and “Ignition (Remix)”? Unlike Bill Cosby, who took center stage in millions of households of all races every week and who created a wholesome narrative of black family life, R. Kelly rose to fame within the black community because of his licentious lyrics and gyrating, envelope-pushing grooves.
Still, Cosby’s victims have been primarily white women, so whatever support he had from white America has gone sour — so much so that some believe he’s being targeted and set up because he is black. If R. Kelly’s victims had been primarily young white women, how much more outraged would white America feel? How much more insidious would these allegations seem to all of us?
Would they be accused of being “fast,” lacking good parenting, or of being “hoes”? Or would Kelly finally be pegged as the longtime predator that he repeatedly shows himself to be?
According to the latest accusations, Kelly has been filming his sexual activity with these “captive” women. A sex-positive feminist might argue that it’s part of his kink, that perhaps he is engaged in consensual non-consent, a particular type of BDSM, with several women in various places and simply likes to record his encounters.
That would hold water if he hadn’t already shown a pattern of manipulative behavior and a tendency to engage women who have not yet reached the age of consent. It might even pass muster if R. Kelly’s own music didn’t make us cringe with calling himself the “Pied Piper” of R&B, naming Aaliyah’s first album “Age Ain’t Nothing but a Number.”
It might be plausible if we ignored the stories of black women, who make up all of R. Kelly’s victims and who regularly share traumatic stories of being sexually harassed and preyed upon from ages 10 and 11 on social media via hashtags like #YouOKSis and #FastTailedGirls. Many campaigns that address violence against women and girls often feature white faces. That needs to be changed.
In 2014, I created a bystander intervention campaign, “You Ok, Sis?” to help women who experience street harassment get the help and support they need to navigate life more safely. My focus was and continues to be women of color, particularly black women and girls, who experience street harassment earlier in life and in more violent ways.
When black girls and women go ignored by everyone from family members to teachers to news outlets and the media, perpetrators of violence against us feel emboldened to continue treating us abusively. They are comfortable knowing they won’t face the same scrutiny and backlash as they might if they abuse white women because our lives aren’t valued as much.
R. Kelly is the latest example of this. BuzzFeed attempted to reach out to all of the artists he’s worked with in the past on the latest scandal and couldn’t get anyone to comment on whether they would collaborate with him in the future. How many of those artists are black women themselves, and how can they justify defending someone who, for decades now, has exhibited a pattern of predatory behavior involving other black girls and women? It’s painfully clear that for some, money matters most, and working with R. Kelly has been a surefire way to secure a hit record.
Black women matter. If we don’t tell our stories, who will? We cannot rely on white feminist hot takes. While they are shielded and protected by whiteness, black women are left exposed to violence deemed acceptable simply because we exist as black and women.
And how many times do we have to see our own people rush to defend men like Floyd Mayweather, Chris Brown, Ray Rice, Bill Cosby, and R. Kelly just because they feel compelled to support the brothers who “made it”? I understand that we, as a people, have been treated so horribly for centuries that our impulse is to protect those of us who come under attack by “outsiders.” But what happens when the predators are our own men and they target our girls and women? What happens when we give abusers a pass because they keep us entertained?
We know that men who abuse and sexually violate women are from all races and ethnicities. We know this isn’t specific to black men. However, we know that when the victims are black girls and women, empathy is minimal — from all people. As such, our girls and young women are vulnerable to the predatory allure of fast money, flowery words, empty promises, and whatever other tactics are employed to wrestle them away from their homes and into harmful environments.
Why is R. Kelly still a thing?
Because black girls don’t matter enough to enough people to make him disappear. That won’t stop us from fighting and rallying everyone to #SayHerName. It won’t stop us from crying loud to end invisible street harassment by comforting victims with #YouOKSis. We need to fight to be seen.
Feminista Jones is a social worker, award-winning writer, and community activist currently residing in Philadelphia.
First Person is Vox's home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.

The Pirelli calendar, known for its exclusive readership and tantalizing imagery, is defying its own conventions with its 2018 theme.
First published in 1963 by an Italian tire company of the same name, the Pirelli trade calendar has historically been home to sensual and evocative images of women, often captured by the photo and fashion industries’ most prominent photographers. However, its latest 12-page spread is going in a fantastically different direction.
Photographed by Tim Walker and styled by British Vogue’s new editor Edward Enninful, the 2018 calendar will reimagine characters from Lewis Carroll’s beloved tale Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland — specifically, with an all-black cast. Celebrities such as RuPaul and Naomi Campbell, rappers Sean Combs and Lil Yachty, and actors Whoopi Goldberg, Lupita Nyong’o, and are among those who will grace the monthly spreads, breathing new life into characters like the Mad Hatter, Caterpillar, and Queen of Hearts.
“The story of Alice has been told so many times and in so many ways, but always with a white cast,” Walker, whose work is famous for its eerie and surrealist fantasy and romanticism, told the New York Times. “There has never been a black Alice, so I wanted to push how fictional fantasy figures can be represented and explore evolving ideas of beauty.”
This wasn’t just some sudden change of course on Pirelli’s behalf. In recent years, the tire company has dropped its legacy of scantily clad women in favor of photos that go to new, more creatively challenging heights. It’s also given photographers the keys to the castle, with “zero creative or commercial demands” from the company, according to Walker.
As a result, in 2016’s calendar, famed photographer Annie Leibovitz celebrated women like tennis champion Serena Williams and investment banker Mellody Hobson not for their physical attributes but their accomplishments. A year later, photographer Peter Lindbergh explored beauty with his series of black and white photographs featuring make-up free (and fully-dressed) actresses like Kate Winslet, Helen Mirren, and Julianne Moore.
Walker argues the 2018 calendar is more than another politically correct PR stunt or stab at diversity for money’s sake.
“This is not about trends,” Walker said. “I think we are living in a fantastically exciting time, particularly when a story like that of Alice, that has held so much resonance with people and been told in a certain way for so long, can now be told compellingly in another.”
Lewis Carroll’s original tale about a young girl falling down a rabbit hole into a world of weird adventures is, as Walker points out, typically told with a white cast. It is not, however, a tale that requires a white cast to be told. Anyone can realistically play these characters without dramatically altering the plot, making Walker’s creative move more about expression — through the universalization of a narrative — than being socially aware.
The decision to feature colors and shades across the black identity spectrum — everyone from Refilwe Modiselle, a South African model with albinism, to dark-skinned Australian-Sudanese model Duckie Thot — also makes the calendar’s diversity about more than simple inclusion. It is as much about creatively playing with the convergence of color in makeup and lighting, as well as the mixture of 19th-century British style with Ghana-born stylist Enninful’s appreciation for Japanese designers like Rei Kawakubo.
Ultimately, though, the calendar is only accessible to an elite few — the company typically gifts copies to insiders like celebrities, politicians, and chief executives. So there is no new audience to win over with a progressive message, and no marketing diversity "cookies" to be won. Instead, the Pirelli calendar’s focus on black beauty feels like one of Hollywood’s more genuine efforts, both artistically and socially, to make colorful art.
The Game of Thrones showrunners are no strangers to controversy, but with the recent announcement of their next project, Confederate, they may now be actively courting it.
Per HBO’s July 19 press release, David Benioff and D.B. Weiss’s Confederate “chronicles the events leading to the Third American Civil War. The series takes place in an alternate timeline, where the Southern states have successfully seceded from the Union, giving rise to a nation in which slavery remains legal and has evolved into a modern institution.”
There’s no doubt that Benioff and Weiss and HBO were keen to figure out what was next for the Game of Thrones team, and the fact that the answer is basically Civil War alternate-universe fanfiction is, to say the least, an unexpected decision. Not only is Confederate a hugely ambitious idea, but it’s the kind of concept that requires incredible deftness and sensitivity — a combination some are skeptical that this team and this network can pull off.
Dear @HBO: Black trauma is not for sale.Black pain is not for your amusement.Black bodies are not here for your award campaigns.
For their part, Benioff and Weiss stated that they’ve been thinking about the idea for Confederate for years as a possible movie, but that their “experience on Thrones has convinced us that no one provides a bigger, better storytelling canvas than HBO.” And in a fascinating interview with Vulture’s Josef Adalian — published late Thursday night — the two insisted alongside executive producers Nichelle Tramble Spellman (Justified, The Good Wife) and Malcolm Spellman (Empire, Hulu’s upcoming Foxy Brown series) that they don’t take this concept, or its history, lightly.
“It goes without saying slavery is the worst thing that ever happened in American history,” said Weiss. “It’s our original sin as a nation. And history doesn’t disappear.”
Benioff and Weiss say they aren’t surprised by the pushback to Confederate, nor are the Spellmans. But the fact that HBO granted Vulture an unusual damage-control interview following the response to the initial press release indicates that the network wasn’t quite prepared for the vehement reaction it got, which is maybe the biggest surprise of all.
Plenty of works of fiction have tackled the myriad possible outcomes of major wars, with some even imagining the kind of alternate reality Confederate is set to take on. As many were quick to point out after the Confederate announcement, Amazon’s Man in the High Castle imagines a world in which the Nazis won World War II — though it might also be important to note that Man in the High Castle, as my colleague Todd VanDerWerff has pointed out, is a total mess. Another (better) example from recent memory is probably Ben Winters’s recent acclaimed novel Underground Airlines, which imagines that the Civil War never happened, leaving slavery to be folded into modern society along with every other industry.
So, yes, there are absolutely ways to examine history by posing “what if” questions, to find new truths by examining old ones in a different light. And Weiss put this approach front and center in the Vulture interview, calling Confederate “science fiction” and saying that the genre “can show us how this history is still with us in a way no strictly realistic drama ever could.”
But those warily eying HBO’s announcement of Confederate don’t believe the team behind Game of Thrones will consider the implications of the history it’s taken on with enough nuance to make it worth the inevitable trouble.
US, watching Game of Thrones: hey can we maybe have a fantasy show with more people of colorTHEM: ok what about if slavery never ended
It is exhausting to think of how many people at @HBO said yes to letting two white men envision modern day slavery. And offensive. https://t.co/xsxWJ6FHUv
Other critics, like Vulture’s own Hunter Harris, have ripped the show’s premise as obfuscating the grim realities of the systemic racism that has existed before, during, and long after the Civil War:
ok well this is called the united states prison system or did yall not see the @13THFilm pic.twitter.com/TBNvxlgfwd
To be blunt: It was difficult to read the sentence, “HBO announces Confederate, a new drama series created by David Benioff and D.B. Weiss,” and not immediately translate it to, “HBO announces Confederate, a new drama series about modern-day slavery created by two white guys.” While Game of Thrones’ stories are wide-ranging and complex, the fact remains — as many have insisted before and after this announcement — that the show’s treatment of race isn’t exactly encouraging.
“Pretty much the only black people in Game of Thrones are slaves,” Ira Madison writes at the Daily Beast, adding that Game of Thrones’ track record on depictions of sexual assault is similarly uninspiring. “Do we need another show from them where the black people are slaves and the threat of rape from slaveowners is ever-present?”
When Adalian asked Benioff and Weiss about the backlash to how they’ve treated race on Game of Thrones, Weiss instead emphasized that they are “very hyper aware of the difference between a show with a fictional history and a fictional world, and a show that’s an alternate history of this world.”
On the one hand, this demonstrates that they’re taking the very real history and pain of the Civil War seriously. On the other, it fails to acknowledge that Game of Thrones deliberately draws from real history to shade out its world — and that the show doesn’t exist in a vacuum, fantasy or no.
The one aspect of Confederate that has early critics breathing a tentative sigh of relief, however, is that Benioff and Weiss are being joined by the Spellmans as executive producers, so the creatives involved won’t be all white men. In fact, their partnership was heavily emphasized throughout that Vulture interview, with Malcolm insisting that he and Nichelle are “not props being used to protect someone else." Furthermore, he continued, Confederate will be “deeply personal” for them, “because we are the offspring of this history. We deal with it directly, and have for our entire lives.”
Nichelle agreed, adding that while she understood the concern, she was disappointed that it came so swiftly and wished it “had been reserved to the night of the premiere, on HBO, on a Sunday night, when they watched and then they made a decision after they watched an hour of television as to whether or not we succeeded in what we set out to do.”
Nichelle’s comments underline the trouble with writing off Confederate this early in its existence: As of now, there’s no indication of who will be anchoring the show in front of the cameras. And Benioff, expressing frustration at the preemptive criticism, emphasized to Vulture that they “don’t even have character names ... everything is brand new and nothing’s been written.”
The Confederate press release does promise “a broad swath of characters on both sides of the Mason-Dixon Demilitarized Zone — freedom fighters, slave hunters, politicians, abolitionists, journalists, the executives of a slave-holding conglomerate and the families of people in their thrall.” So while it seems like Confederate will be some kind of sprawling epic in the vein of Game of Thrones, it’s still unclear how the show will strike a balance between white and black perspectives.
Throughout the Vulture interview, Benioff and Weiss constantly defer to the Spellmans, who in turn emphasize their trust in the Game of Thrones team to treat this new concept with the gravity it deserves. Given how closely the criticism they’ve already gotten aligns with the broader discussion about representation and race in entertainment today, it’s not surprising how quickly HBO scrambled to acknowledge that the optics of giving two successful white men a show about the Confederate South are, to say the least, less than ideal.
Recent years have seen pop culture ranging from indie TV shows to blockbuster superhero movies try to incorporate “more diverse” casts, or at least attempt to fold in perspectives other than entertainment’s default (i.e., straight, white, and male). And that’s repeatedly proven to be a successful approach: Movies like Get Out, Hidden Figures, and Wonder Woman, for example, have broken through the glut of monochromatic big-budget mediocrities to achieve huge box office success.
HBO has followed suit, ordering shows like Issa Rae’s Insecure and the Emmy-nominated web series Brown Girls to series in order to shake up its traditionally white status quo. (And for all those who were just tempted to close this article and email me about The Wire, please at least note that it’s definitely the exception rather than the rule for the network.)
Along the way to inclusivity, however, there has also been significant controversy over the question of who, exactly, should be trying to take on these “diverse” stories. For one, Sofia Coppola’s remake of The Beguiled — which takes place in the Confederate South and stars Nicole Kidman and Kirsten Dunst — recently came under so much fire for excising the original movie’s storyline about a black slave girl that Coppola responded to the criticism multiple times. She first stated to BuzzFeed that she was “really focused on just this one group of [white] women who were really isolated”; she later wrote a piece for Indiewire about how she wanted to tell a story of white women’s repression, and that treating slavery as a side plot “would be insulting.”
On that point, the Daily Beast’s Madison basically agreed — but not necessarily because the plot line had no place in The Beguiled at all. Instead, he wrote, “there’s also a lot to be said about a white woman who stays in her lane,” arguing that he would much rather let black filmmakers tell black stories than have white people take on the task for diversity’s sake.
“Gone are the days when we needed a Steven Spielberg to make a film like The Color Purple or a George Lucas to back Red Tails,” Madison continued. “We should demand that studios and producers give those opportunities to black filmmakers instead of looking for meager scraps from white people who don’t fully grasp our stories and will portray them horribly.”
To this point, the fact that the initial HBO announcement failed to adequately highlight just how involved the Spellmans will be in the crafting of this alternate history shows that the network might not have understood the implications of the nascent show it was celebrating. If it had, it would have taken care to point out that there are black creatives heavily involved in this work — and not just presented it as “Game of Thrones: Civil War edition.”
Confederate is still in its embryonic stages, and won’t even start production until after Game of Thrones has wrapped. But at minimum, it seems as though the concern people have about this fraught concept has made it through to those in charge of digging up the country’s most painful roots to build out Confederate’s alternate universe.
The BBC made history last weekend when it announced that actress Jodie Whittaker will play the Thirteenth Doctor on Doctor Who, becoming the show’s first female Doctor since its debut in 1963. (Doctor Who’s original run ended in 1989, but it returned to the BBC in 2005, after a 16-year hiatus.)
The move is entirely plausible within the mythology of the series. Doctor Who is the story of a mysterious alien known as “the Doctor,” who travels through time and space having adventures with a rotating cast of friends. Whenever the Doctor is mortally wounded and/or his actor quits, he dies and is regenerated into a new body, with the same essential self but usually a new set of personality tics.
It’s been established within the world of the show that the Doctor can take on any race and gender he so chooses, but thus far — over the course of 54 years and 14 actors rotating through the role (including John Hurt as an incarnation known as the War Doctor, who appeared in three episodes in 2013, and David Bradley, who recently filled in for the deceased William Hartnell as the First Doctor) — he has chosen to appear only as a white British man of various ages, for reasons known only to himself.
Meet the Thirteenth Doctor #DoctorWho #Doctor13 pic.twitter.com/wycdcneZ7o
Fans have been crusading for a female Doctor or a black Doctor or really any option besides a white male Doctor since 2008, when David Tennant (the Tenth Doctor) announced that he would be leaving the show. But as Tennant was first replaced by a younger white guy (Matt Smith, the Eleventh Doctor) and then by an older white guy (Peter Capaldi, the Twelfth Doctor), many fans resigned themselves to the idea that Doctor Who was simply not interested in exploring the possibility of a nonwhite, non-male title character. So Whittaker’s casting announcement was in the odd position of being at once shocking, since it broke 54 years’ worth of precedent, and also unsurprising, since it was responding to nine years’ worth of fan campaigning.
When Whittaker takes over as the Doctor (presumably later this year, at the end of the show’s annual Christmas special), some of the subtext that Doctor Who has spent the past 54 years developing will finally become legible. The Doctor began as a cipher of a character whose gender hardly mattered, but over the course of the show’s long history, the Doctor has taken on ever more traits of masculine action figure archetypes — and once the Doctor is a woman, those traits will be thrown into sharp relief.
When Doctor Who premiered in 1963, the titular Doctor wasn’t the superhero/Christ figure/Lonely God/Oncoming Storm/insert-grandiloquent-title-here that we know today. Instead, as played by William Hartnell, he was like a Mary Poppins whom you couldn’t quite trust.
Hartnell’s First Doctor was an amoral, grumpy, capricious figure whose main role was to incompetently ferry his companions — although at that point, they didn’t have an official title; eventually they would become assistants, and later companions — to various times and planets, and then stand back while they got things done. Sometimes he would even hinder them: Early on, he tries to club a wounded man to death to save himself, and it’s only the quick thinking of one of his companions, a schoolteacher named Ian, that stops him.
Back then, Ian and his fellow teacher/companion Barbara were clearly the adults in the room. They were the wise and capable heroes who could sort out all the problems their group of adventurers came across. Susan, the Doctor’s spacey teenage granddaughter, was also on hand to function as the audience surrogate who would give all of the children in the audience a character they could identify with. The Doctor himself was just there to take everybody from place to place and get them into trouble.
But slowly, over the 54-year history of the show, the Doctor rendered his first group of companions redundant. He took on the moral authority and competence of Ian and Barbara, and the childlike whimsy and glee of Susan, and married those characteristics to his own ability to travel through time and space. The Doctor became capable of carrying the entire dynamic of the show’s original ensemble entirely on his own, as action hero and wondering child and magical trickster all at once.
Consequently, the Doctor’s companions no longer needed to have skills that the Doctor didn’t. The companion didn’t even need to be more than one person. Instead, she — and as the show progressed, the companion increasingly became she as a default — became necessary primarily so that the Doctor would have someone to explain things to.
So while Doctor Who started as an ensemble show, today it’s very firmly a two-header: The hero Doctor is the center of everything, and the lady companion tags along. That metamorphosis would have been unlikely if the First Doctor had been a woman — but if you look at the early episodes of Doctor Who, there’s very little back then that would have needed to change if she were.
The First Doctor could easily have been a woman without drastically changing the original premise of the show. Doctor Who was aimed at kids when it debuted, and children’s stories are full of not necessarily benevolent trickster ladies who shepherd children from one fantastical location to another, like Mary Poppins and the fairy godmothers of fairy tales.
Really the main thing about the First Doctor that codes as masculine, at least in the context of 1963, is that he goes by “the Doctor,” and as such has a claim to institutional knowledge and authority that even the practically perfect Mary Poppins isn’t granted. Outside of that detail, the Doctor could have been a woman without threatening established gender roles; back then, the Doctor wasn’t really the hero. Ian was.
But as time went on, and the Doctor transitioned from an amoral trickster whose gender didn’t particularly matter to a hero, he took on the traits of specifically male heroic archetypes. He made grandstanding speeches about righteousness to his enemies, like Superman; he was tortured by the memories of the family he’d lost, like Batman; he talked a lot about his responsibilities, like Spider-Man. And crucially, even though the Doctor has become more childlike over time, his glee and curiosity for the world never detract from his heroism and moral authority. That’s part of what makes him such a fun and compelling character, but it’s also an honor that’s typically reserved for male heroes.
I can think of no female action hero who gets to giggle hysterically while piloting a Segway through an underground tunnel toward a murderous alien spider, because the general assumption is that if she did, it would make it harder for the audience to take her seriously when the time came to defeat the alien. Female action heroes tend to be serious when they’re in the midst of action, at most dropping a grimly amused one-liner, because women who laugh are frequently assumed to be incompetent. The Doctor gets away with it, in part, because he’s always been presented as a man, and as such we’re willing to cut him some slack. He can always be counted on to save the day no matter how silly he gets. And part of saving the day usually means rescuing his companion, with varying levels of help from her.
The companion is usually young and beautiful, “for the dads” in the audience, and in the post-2005 era, there’s often been mild romantic tension between Doctor and companion. Modern Doctor Who usually at least gestures at giving the companion an emotional arc of her own, but a common criticism of current showrunner Steven Moffat is that he tends to write all of his companions as more or less the same generic person with the same generic story. Sometimes she gets to save the world and the Doctor, too, but she is never the hero in the center of everything. That is always the Doctor.
As a result, the Doctor has come to be defined in opposition to his companion: all-knowing where she is questioning, ageless and immortal where she is very young, and male to her female. So the new season — which may feature Whittaker’s Doctor opposite a male companion, rumored to be played by Kris Marshall — will fundamentally alter the dynamic we’ve come to accept as the basis of the show. The Doctor will still be all-knowing, ageless, and immortal, but now she’ll be a woman, and her wide-eyed and admiring companion will (likely) be a man. Doctor Who will take place in a world in which the cleverest and saddest and funniest and all-around greatest hero in all of space and time will be female.
Doctor Who may have begun as the story of a Mary Poppins-like trickster shuttling a group of earnest explorers around the universe, but in its current incarnation, it is the story of an old man action hero traveling around time and space explaining things to a beautiful young woman who may or may not be in love with him. That’s why, for as overdue as this casting is, Jodie Whittaker’s Doctor is going to be so subversive and revolutionary: It offers the expectation that we will finally get to see a woman do the explaining and the day-saving and a man the wide-eyed and adoring listening. That’s why the idea of a lady Doctor is so exciting.
It’s been more than two decades since the Stargate franchise first united our nerdy love of archaeology and interdimensional space stuff, and now the universe that spawned two movies and a trio of television spinoffs is returning once again with a new TV series that explores the life of the woman who started it all.
Stargate Origins will focus on Catherine Langford, the scientist whose lifelong obsession with alien hieroglyphs unearthed on her father’s archaeological expedition led to the events that kick off the 1994 film Stargate. Langford then recurred as a character throughout the long-running TV series Stargate SG-1, which aired on the Sci-Fi network (before it was renamed Syfy) from 1997 through 2007. Now she gets her own 10-episode prequel web series exploring her life, her adventures, and maybe even her grand romance.
MGM announced Stargate Origins series — along with the new teaser trailer shown above — during its Thursday-evening panel at San Diego Comic-Con, where it also revealed the upcoming launch of a new digital streaming service, Stargate Command, that will host the new show.
Mercedes Bryce Morgan will direct Stargate Origins, with writing from Mark Ilvedson and Justin Michael Terry. Production is scheduled to begin in August. The series will stream on the franchise’s new subscription-based digital platform, which launches later this fall.
The Stargate saga immediately attracted a loyal following; following the film’s worldwide success (it grossed $200 million worldwide), Stargate SG-1 ran for 10 years and more than 200 episodes. But the franchise struggled to maintain fan interest in the latter half of the aughts.
Despite a loyal cult following, Stargate: Atlantis — which launched on Sci-Fi in 2004 and overlapped with the SG-1 series — was canceled in 2009, midway through its fifth season, arguably not due to its dwindling ratings but rather to the then-newly renamed Syfy’s wish to appeal to a younger audience. That objective led to the 2009 launch of SGU Stargate Universe, a gambit that failed in 2011 after only two seasons.  Still, MGM is apparently confident that the Stargate fandom is still mighty enough to support the launch of not only a new Stargate series but a new subscription-based website to host it that will boast a wide variety of extras, assets, and new content pertaining to the universe.
“We’ve been eager to revisit the Stargate franchise, and create an all-new story that honors the founding mythos and gives loyal fans more mystery and adventure,” said Kevin Conroy, president of digital and new platforms at MGM, in a press release. "We view Stargate: Origins as a thank you to fans who have been keeping the spirit of the franchise alive for nearly 25 years.”
The announcement of the new Stargate series bears a resemblance to Star Trek’s upcoming new series, Star Trek: Discovery. Both series are prequel series that focus on a female lead character, both will air exclusively on a streaming platform, and both mark the return, in series form, of a beloved science fiction franchise after a lengthy hiatus.
Apart from the external similarities, however, there’s plenty that’s unique to Stargate — particularly its relationship to the US military, which oversees the Stargate program and whose commanding officers frequently clash with its peace-loving scientists over how and why space exploration is taking place. The real US Air Force collaborated closely with SG-1 to ensure accurate information and detail about the Cheyenne Mountain base where that series took place. And as a civilian and a scientist, Langford brought a perspective that was often crucial to the success of a Stargate mission.
For fans who might need a refresher, Catherine Langford is the little girl from the opening of Roland Emmerich’s Stargate film, which kicked off the entire franchise. We see her poking excitedly around her father’s archaeological dig, witnessing the excavation of Earth’s first recovered “Stargate” — a sleek bit of alien technology that serves as a portal to other worlds.
Decades later, still obsessed with the Stargate and her father’s work, Langford hires archaeologist Daniel Jackson (played by James Spader in the original film) to help her translate the language on the gate, which hails from a civilization known as the Ancients. That endeavor results in him activating the gate and its portal to other worlds.
Langford was a recurring character throughout the Stargate: SG-1 TV series, serving as a mentor to Jackson as well as a continual researcher. During one arc, she traveled through the gate to rescue her long-lost love Ernest Littlefield, who’d been accidentally transported through the gate decades earlier. The character died in a 2005 episode, and received a nice eulogy from Daniel:
Langford has long been a fan-favorite character, both because of her importance to the events of the overall Stargate franchise and because she serves as a crucial intermediary between geeky, intellectually curious civilians like us, the viewers, and the alien worlds of the Stargate. Additionally, she was the rare model of a competent older woman who was defined mainly by her achievements as a scientist and a military adviser.
“The only reason [the plot of Stargate] happened,” wrote culture writer Gavia Baker-Whitelaw in a 2013 blog post, “is because the 80-year-old daughter of a 1920s Egyptologist became so obsessed with an old Egyptian artefact that she spent her whole life researching it until people finally got to travel to other planets. Which to me is a far more compelling origin story than any amount of daddy issues, dead wives, or misunderstood loner antiheroes.”
“I just want a whole movie about Catherine Langford,” one Stargate fan opined on Tumblr. “Like, the whole thing is just about her working on the Stargate, fighting to get the program started, dealing with sexist asshats in the military and academic communities. ... And just generally being a badass.”
Those fans will get their wish — along with what could be a new gig for Langford: space travel. According to MGM, Stargate: Origins “will explore a brand new chapter in Catherine Langford’s early history surrounding the extraordinary portal. Young Catherine embarks on an unexpected adventure to unlock the mystery of what lies beyond the Stargate in order to save Earth from unimaginable darkness.“
Fans who want to be notified when MGM’s Stargate Command streaming service is “activated” can visit stargatecommand.co to sign up for updates.
Christopher Nolan’s Dunkirk opens in over 3,600 theaters on Friday, and the film’s pristine reviews so far ensure it’ll be the hottest movie ticket of the weekend. But if you find yourself confused when purchasing a ticket, you can safely assume you’re not alone.
That’s because the film is being projected in a number of different formats, and formats are notoriously complicated. And though Dunkirk is playing on both IMAX and more conventionally sized screens, the choice facing ticket-buyers isn’t just about the size of the screen they’ll be watching the film on; it’s also about whether they’ll see a digital or film projection — another complicated matter.
If you’re interested in the technical details, you can read Vox’s explainers on projection and on film vs. digital — both of which reveal fascinating things about how technological advances have changed the way we watch movies.
But if you just want to know which Dunkirk ticket to buy, here’s the lowdown.
If you’re lucky enough to be within range of one of the film’s 31 IMAX 70mm screenings in the US, then by all means, spring for that option — it’s worth the added cost to see the film as the filmmaker intended it to be seen. (Plus, you could get a commemorative T-shirt out of the experience.)
What are the advantages of seeking out an IMAX 70mm screening? First, you’ll see about 75 percent of the film that’s been shot on IMAX film, which means enormous, sweeping shots of beaches and a super-immersive experience. That was Nolan’s intention; in this clip, he pitches the movie as “virtual reality without the goggles”:
IMAX screens are far taller than conventional screens, so the image you’re seeing on screen is nothing like what you’d see on a home viewing screen, nor on a conventional movie screen, which is wider than it is tall. (Not all theaters that offer IMAX are the same, though — see below.) So the image is truly immersive, and that’s an important part of Nolan’s creative vision in Dunkirk (and it works splendidly).
The other 25 percent of Dunkirk is projected in standard 70mm, which means the top and bottom of the screen are black for those portions of the film. If you’re not paying attention, you may not even notice that this is happening: Those sections of the film weren’t shot in IMAX because the cameras are huge and difficult to maneuver in small, enclosed spaces, which means they tend to be darkly lit scenes anyhow.
In Dunkirk, this actually works in the movie’s favor: When the men are in the claustrophobic hull of the ship, the image on screen gets tighter, too. It’s subtle, but it works.
Related
Dunkirk is also being projected in IMAX screenings that aren’t 70mm — they’re digital prints and projections (more on that below). So why choose 70mm? Well, you don’t have to; you’ll get the gist of it just fine in a digital screening. But there are two compelling reasons to seek out a 70mm screening if at all possible.
The biggest one has to do with your moviegoing experience. When you go to a movie, you’re not just there to see actors walk you through story beats. You’re watching something, because seeing a movie is as much a visual experience as it is a narrative one.
Film — that is, the actual medium of film, which comes on giant spool-like reels and is projected through special projectors — has a distinctive look that’s hard to describe, but you know it when you see it: It feels weighty and somehow authentic, probably because it recalls the way most movies in film history have looked.
Nolan has been shooting on 70mm for a while. Well, technically, he shoots on 65mm and it’s projected in 70mm; the extra mms are used to record the sound. Dunkirk was shot in two formats, with different types of cameras: 65mm IMAX, and regular 65mm.
Warner Bros. believed enough in projecting this film in 70mm that it bought projectors from the Weinstein Company, which Quentin Tarantino used to project Hateful Eight in 2015, and installed them in theaters around the country. In fact, Dunkirk is getting the widest 70mm release in 25 years — 125 theaters in total (including non-IMAX 70mm screenings), which is bigger than either Hateful Eight or Nolan’s last foray into 70mm, Interstellar.
And 70mm film is twice as big as 35mm film, which means there’s more “information” on the print as the more traditional 35mm movies we watched in theaters prior to digital’s takeover in the early 2000s. Even when it’s projected at the same size as a 35mm print, there’s a richness to 70mm that’s hard to match (and impossible to see at home). Think of the difference between blowing up a high-resolution photograph and a low-resolution photograph; one’s just got more detail than the other.
The contrast between film and digital projection is pretty stark. Digital (which is favored by some filmmakers, like George Lucas and James Cameron) looks more pristine and “clean” than film when it’s projected onto the screen, while film looks more vibrant and “alive.” The distinction is readily apparent in the opening titles of Dunkirk, which consist of the title in white letters superimposed against a black background; in digital, the letters are still and strong, while in 70mm they seem to almost vibrate.
The reason some people prefer film is not unlike why audiophiles seek out vinyl over CDs or MP3s; the “cleaned up” medium might have more clarity, but there’s something gritty and beautiful about the analog version, something that feels more like the “real” world. It’s like the difference between smelling a cake baking in the oven and smelling a cake-flavored Yankee Candle burning; you can tell you’re smelling cake, but there’s something slightly fake about it, something too perfect.
Many modern movie effects are geared toward digital projection, and there are a handful of computer-generated effects in Dunkirk that look just fine in digital. But if you’re watching it on 70mm, with its slight grittiness and “noise” on the print, the effects feel like they’re all being done practically (that is, actually happening), which adds to the feeling of immersion as you’re watching the movie.
So an IMAX 70mm screening of Dunkirk combines the grit and richness of the 70mm film with the immersive storytelling effects of the huge screen and “authenticity” of the film grain. It’s definitely the one to choose, if you can make that choice.
It’s worth noting that unlike a number of major IMAX releases in the recent past (such as Gravity), not one of Dunkirk’s screenings is in 3D. That not only means the best format is accessible even to people whose eyes can’t see 3D, but that nobody has to argue over whether or not to see it in 3D. Dunkirk is immersive, but it’s still definitely an old-school movie that doesn’t benefit from the added gimmick of 3D.
This is a remarkably tricky question to answer. In short: It depends on what you’re looking for.
Christopher Nolan would prefer that you see the film in 70mm — even with the IMAX parts cropped out — and that’s probably the “right” answer, since unless you have a film projector in your home and the ability to get your hands on a reel, you won’t ever be able to see it that way again (except maybe in repertory screenings).
If you see a non-IMAX 70mm screening, you’ll miss out on the massive, stirring shots, and the experience won’t be as immersive. (The IMAX ratio will have been rejiggered so you see the action.) But the film will still have that rich, authentic look that comes along with 70mm. This authenticity is central to Nolan’s vision — central enough that Warner Bros. invested in 70mm cameras to honor that vision — and seeing a film as the filmmaker intended is always preferable. (Indiewire has the full list of theaters projecting in 70mm, both regular and IMAX versions.)
But I wouldn’t write off IMAX, either. If you grew up in the 1980s and 1990s (like me), IMAX films may still feel like a gimmick or a thrill ride. For Dunkirk, though, IMAX is an important part of the story itself. It helps build the world rapidly, and it adds to the overall experience.
The tricky part is that there are different kinds of IMAX, and it requires a little sleuthing to figure out which one the theater you’re going to offers. IMAX theaters may have one of two aspect ratios (that is, the ratio of width to height) — it could be 1.9:1, or 1.43:1. You want the 1.43:1 version if you can get it.
Theaters that have IMAX’s latest laser-projection system run in 1.43:1, and this is the highest-quality digital presentation you can see. The projection will have an expanded range of colors and more capacity for brightness, which will likely make this movie (which takes place during the day and night, and includes shots both in the sky and underwater) much more enjoyable to watch.
So if you have access to a screening in a laser-projection IMAX theater (this information should be available on the movie theater’s website), then that is a strong contender for the version of the film you should see, especially if you favor the immersive experience over the richness of the film. IMAX 70mm is still far better, but you’ll experience the size of the film and the enormity of the story this way.
Most multiplexes that claim to offer IMAX, though, have a more traditional 1.9:1 aspect ratio and lack the expanded range of the laser projection system. If that’s your only option — and if a 70mm screening is available to you — then strongly consider the 70mm screening. (Or if you’re a Nolan fan, just see it both ways.)
There are also regular-sized screenings of the film in both digital and 35mm happening around the country. If you have to pick one, see 35mm — it’s half as dense as 70mm, but it’s still film, and the more natural look of film suits the movie better. Plain old digital should be your last resort. It will still be enjoyable, but much of the visual impact that makes Dunkirk remarkable won’t be there anymore.
You’re in luck. The official Dunkirk website contains a handy tool to help you find the showtimes for the IMAX and 70mm IMAX screenings near you.
This article has been updated to clarify technical IMAX specifications.
The ever-growing glut of great new TV, movies, books, music, comics, and podcasts can be a lot to keep up with. So we here at Vox Culture — where our current obsessions include the excellent soundtrack to Baby Driver, a ridiculous Taylor Swift conspiracy theory, and a Thing-esque horror short film you can stream on YouTube — have a few suggestions for how to make the best use of your pop culture–consuming time.
Here are some items you should really consider checking out.
If you’re in need of a glossy piece of entertainment — or just a TV show to throw on as you pant in front of your air conditioner — Freeform’s new series The Bold Type is about the best you’re gonna do. It follows the misadventures of three young women trying to make their mark on Scarlet, a teen magazine with grander ambitions than the lip gloss tutorials most people assume are the publication’s bread and butter. I keep describing it as “what would happen if a 2000s-era rom-com discovered Tumblr and realized it was kinda gay,” and it is a joy to watch. The first three episodes are currently available to stream on Freeform’s website and Hulu. —Caroline Framke
This week’s pop culture discourse got pretty dark, what with legendary musicians allegedly forming abusive cults and all, so when rumors began to spread across the internet that Taylor Swift had been carried out of her apartment in an enormous suitcase, they were a proverbial gift from the heavens.
The story also seemed a little bit plausible if you squint: Swift has to get in and out of her apartment without being seen somehow, so why not use a giant suitcase? And if magicians’ assistants throughout history have been able to contort themselves into boxes to make the magic happen, why couldn’t Swift do it to make the magic that is her own life happen?
Taylor Swift has reportedly been carried out of her house in this massive suitcase https://t.co/iIeamTRfFM pic.twitter.com/bdmZyIKIsB
Sadly, the photo service that put out the story has since retracted the statement — but maybe that’s just because Swift’s camp leaned on them to hide the truth! (Unlikely, but it’s fun to pretend.) In the meantime, please enjoy the New Statesman’s list of 17 reasons why Taylor Swift might have herself smuggled out of her apartment in a giant suitcase (including: “The suitcase would very much like to be excluded from this narrative, one that it has never asked to be part of, since 2009”). —Constance Grady
Maybe you’ve heard of Baby Driver, Edgar Wright’s latest film that takes the heist movie format and remixes it into something a little sleeker. I didn’t fall for the movie itself quite as hard as some others have, but I’m still finding its soundtrack almost impossible to turn away from. Wright deliberately calibrated his movie so it’s timed impeccably to music ranging from girl-group bops to electric guitar rips echoing the squealing of a smoking wheel, and the resulting album is wall-to-wall fantastic. —CF
Risk is a frustrating and complicated film about a frustrating and complicated subject: Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks. That’s exactly the film it needs to be — and exactly what makes director Laura Poitras a perfect fit for her subject. As with Poitras’s Oscar-winning Citizenfour, Risk plays more as a character study of Assange than a straightforward, informative look at WikiLeaks. Instead of shaping the story into any familiar political narrative about WikiLeaks, Poitras presents an uncomfortable look at the complicated interplay of Assange’s personal goals, the goals of his organization, his ego, and the then-outstanding sexual assault allegations against him in Sweden — all of which contribute to a sometimes admiring, sometimes infuriating portrait. Catch it on Showtime this Saturday, July 22, at 9 pm. —Alissa Wilkinson
K-pop giants Exo just dropped their fourth album, The War, along with the infectious, rainbow-hued first single from that album, “KoKo Bop.” The video is tinged with the requisite boy band homoeroticism and a lot of Instagram-y filtering — making it a perfect match for the song’s relaxed, reggae-influenced vibe. This song both sounds and feels like late summer. —Aja Romano
YouTube is rife with experimental short horror films, but it’s not often one comes along made by the director of District 9 and starring Dakota Fanning. Cult fave Neill Blomkamp has given us several shorts recently through his new studio Oats: the Sigourney Weaver-helmed alien sci-fi Rakka, a twisted infomercial, and a paranormal Vietnam film, Firebase.
The latest of the lot is Zygote, a sci-fi/horror creature feature full of homages to Alien and The Thing. Fanning is trapped on a desolate corporate outpost that’s been wiped out by a terrifying creature, making a last stand with a superior officer whose sanity is rapidly dwindling. It’s the best 20 minutes of horror we’ve seen in ages. You can also find extra content for Zygote and Blomkamp’s other recent short films on Steam. —AR
Last weekend, Swiss tennis player Roger Federer became the first man in history to win eight Wimbledon championships, beating Croatia’s Marin Cilic and reestablishing himself at the top of the tennis food chain. A Federer win is always satisfying to watch, but it’s still a great excuse to revisit “Roger Federer as Religious Experience,” David Foster Wallace’s New York Times essay from 2006 — itself a marvel of craft and skill.
Wallace, a former teenage tennis champ, isn’t as interested in describing Federer as he is in describing what it’s like to watch Federer play, to witness the athlete’s “liquid whip” and “certain eel-like all-body snap.” And in his conclusion, Wallace observes that watching Federer, or any great athlete, is an experience much bigger than tennis: “Genius is not replicable,” he writes. “Inspiration, though, is contagious, and multiform — and even just to see, close up, power and aggression made vulnerable to beauty is to feel inspired and (in a fleeting, mortal way) reconciled.” —AW
Probably you don’t spend a lot of time thinking about the sitcom Wings, which ran on NBC from 1990 to 1997. But that is because you haven’t transcended your own limited human form to become a being as pure as whoever runs the Twitter account @Winger9097. This is passion and fandom at its most unfiltered, and for seemingly the most random of things — a pretty good but somewhat forgettable ’90s sitcom. Here are five perfect tweets from the world’s top Wings superfan.
I'm a Wings sitcom fans finder on twitter WINGERS come out there's no shame in liking the show!
Which character u want to seat w/ in an airplane? Joe so good looking i might be tongue tied but be thrilled to be Joe&Brian sandwich lol
It was refreshing to see new faces on Wings like Casey & Alex but some fans have issues esp Alex they did their part so thnx to them pic.twitter.com/ke1UPFuQXu
If you are a Wings fan you know how a Big Sandwich looks like
Wings fashion still in to this day right? pic.twitter.com/GhHHOD3SHb
Sure, there’s a 2 percent chance that the account is all elaborate parody, but we choose to believe in the power of fandom and the power of Wings. —Todd VanDerWerff
Caitlyn Jenner is facing criticism after joking about one of Aerosmith’s most famous — and offensive — tunes.
In the caption of a July 18 Instagram photo of Jenner posing with Aerosmith lead singer Steven Tyler, Jenner teased that the pair is working on a duet of Aerosmith’s 1987 hit “Dude (Looks Like a Lady),” which Jenner called “one of my favorite songs!”
@iamstevent and I are working on our duet for Dude Looks Like a Lady. One of my favorite songs!
A post shared by Caitlyn Jenner (@caitlynjenner) on Jul 18, 2017 at 9:53am PDT
Then, during an appearance on Jimmy Kimmel Live later that day, Jenner, who is a trans woman, told the story behind the snapshot and how she first came to view “Dude (Looks Like a Lady)” as her “theme song.”
Jenner revealed that the photo was taken “two nights ago” during a fundraiser in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Upon seeing Tyler perform, Jenner said she was compelled to go backstage, say hello, and tell the musician how much one of his songs had meant to her.
After telling Kimmel that before she publicly came out as a trans woman in 2015, her life was full of “secrets” and “hiding,” she recalled her conversation with Tyler:
“I said to Steven, ‘I have had some really, really tough times in my life. ... Every once in a while I would ... sneak out in the dark and drive around. And I always used to take your song, ‘Dude (Looks Like a Lady)’.”
Jenner further explained to Kimmel that “Dude (Looks Like a Lady)” became something of a personal anthem for her, “driving around in my little car with my little CD in there, whippin’ up the tunes and stuff. ... It made me feel good.”
But not every member of the LGBTQ community feels so warmly about the song.
Originally released in 1987, “Dude (Looks Like a Lady)” spent 20 weeks on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. It also experienced a second wind in 1993, after it was included on the soundtrack for the Robin Williams cross-dressing comedy Mrs. Doubtfire.
However, despite the song’s mainstream success, Aerosmith has frequently been criticized for the lyrics and music video’s offensive insinuations about trans women.
In general, the lyrics blur the lines between being a trans woman, a cross-dressing man, or a man who simply has “feminine” traits. The song also plays on the idea that trans women intentionally deceive men or are “in disguise,” that they are unattractive or repulsive (as evidenced in one of the video’s first scenes where Steven Tyler recoils at the sight of a construction worker whose gender identity is purposely unclear), and at one point mixes pronouns, going from “Oh she like it” in one line to “Oh, he was a lady,” in the next.
Given the song’s backstory, the fact that it offends many people is hardly surprising.
In an 2012 interview with SongFacts, songwriter Desmond Child, who worked with Aerosmith on the contentious track, reveals that the song was based on Tyler’s experience of once mistaking Mötley Crüe vocalist Vince Neil for a woman at a bar. After realizing who he was, Tyler and his fellow band members joked about how the “dude looked like a lady.”
Desmond goes on to share that he talked Aerosmith into the song’s story concept of “a guy that walks into a strip joint and falls in love with the stripper on stage, goes backstage and finds out it's a guy.” Though Desmond argues that “Dude (Looks Like a Lady” is “a very accepting song,” many people take issue with the reading that the trans woman stripper is “tricking” her customers, not to mention the suggestion that a trans woman is actually a man.
Trans women have long been subject to harmful misconceptions of this nature. As a result, they experience “disproportionate violence and discrimination at the hands of both strangers and intimate partners,” according to the Human Rights Campaign.
Though a representative of Jenner’s told HuffPost that there are currently no actual plans for Jenner and Tyler to record a duet, the song’s history and Jenner’s comment are still igniting heavy pushback from the LGBTQ community.
“Don't keep doing things that perpetuate the false idea that trans women are actually men,” one Reddit user wrote. “It’s making things more dangerous for every one of us that isn't protected by having a bajillion dollars and being a public figure.”
On Twitter, people have called Jenner’s comments “irresponsible.”
She just doesn't get it, does she?Of all the songs in all Aerosmith repertoire in all the world, she had to choose this one #CaitlynJenner https://t.co/qACH6bXXGe
I can't help but feel like #CaitlynJenner's recent instagram post is super irresponsible pic.twitter.com/tuAg1Bf4Kf
Since coming out, several of Jenner’s public statements and stances as a celebrity trans activist have been criticized for being out of touch or simply offensive. This new controversy raises more concerns about how accurately and responsibly Jenner presents her own community, especially considering the danger that trans women face when the “realness” of their womanhood is challenged.
Chester Bennington, the rock musician best known as the lead singer of the post-grunge band Linkin Park, has died by apparent suicide, as first reported by TMZ and confirmed by Variety and Bennington’s Linkin Park bandmate Mike Shinoda on Twitter.
According to TMZ, law enforcement sources said Bennington died by hanging at his Palos Verdes, California, home Thursday morning. The cause of death has yet to be confirmed and the case is still under investigation by the LA County Coroner’s Office.
As a part of Linkin Park, Bennington smashed records and made music history. The group’s debut album Hybrid Theory — which features perhaps their most well-known song, “In the End” — was the best-selling album of 2001, and has sold more than 10 million copies in the US and 27 million worldwide. The group’s 2003 album Meteora, which featured their famous single “Numb,” was the only alternative chart topper in history to produce five No. 1 singles. The band’s most recent No. 1 album came in May of this year, when One More Light topped the Billboard 200 chart.
Bennington’s death follows the May death of his close friend Soundgarden frontman Chris Cornell. Bennington performed in tribute to Cornell at his funeral and wrote an open letter to him on the day of Cornell’s death; today would have been Cornell’s 53rd birthday.
Bennington is survived by his wife, Talinda Ann Bentley, and six children.
If you or someone you know is considering suicide, please call the National Suicide Prevention Hotline at 800-273-TALK (8255).
After serving nearly nine years in prison, a four-person panel voted to grant O.J. Simpson parole as soon as he’s eligible — meaning he will be freed from a Nevada prison as soon as October.
Simpson’s prison sentence is unrelated to the 1994 killing of his ex-wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend Ron Goldman, of which he was acquitted in 1995. That much more high-profile case returned to public attention last year when two prestigious TV projects dug into the trial and the attention it commanded.
Simpson, 70, was convicted in 2008 on 12 charges of attempted armed robbery and kidnapping stemming from a 2007 confrontation in a Las Vegas casino hotel room over sports memorabilia.
As the New York Times reported at the time, Simpson burst into the hotel room of memorabilia dealers Bruce Fromong and Alfred Beardsley on September 13, 2007, brandishing a gun. The dealers said they were led to believe someone was coming to browse the goods with the intent to purchase them and were confronted and threatened by Simpson and four other men. According to the Times, Simpson said his intent was to “retrieve” the items on offer, which he said were personal keepsakes and included photos of his family and a ceremonial football.
“I take full responsibility,” Simpson said at the parole hearing, while walking members of the parole board through the events as he saw them.
But some of his comments will likely draw ire from Simpson’s critics, who are still upset that he was acquitted for the murder of his wife and her friend. Simpson insisted, for example, that he “was always a good guy” and had never been accused of assaulting anyone with a weapon.
Simpson also explained that he had taken some steps to rehabilitate himself in prison, including an “alternatives to violence” class. He suggested it should be mandatory to anyone in prison, “because it teaches you how to deal with conflict through conversation.”
Simpson was supported by his daughter and even one of the robbery victims.
Before handing down the decision, members of the parole board said that Simpson is unlikely to reoffend (perhaps in large part due to his age) and has community support. These are the kinds of factors parole boards typically look like — to ensure that someone isn’t likely to commit new crimes once they’re out of prison.
Simpson’s forthcoming release doesn’t mean he’s a totally free man. He will now have to follow certain parole guidelines, while remaining under state supervision. If he violates any of the parole rules, he could be sent back to prison.
If you don’t yet know who Tiffany Haddish is, your life is about to change for the hilarious.
Haddish is currently starring in the new comedy Girls Trip, alongside the much more famous Queen Latifah, Regina Hall, and Jada Pinkett Smith. But virtually every review so far, including Vox’s, has made sure to point out that Haddish steals every scene with her performance as Dina, the movie’s loosest cannon.
But outside of her role in Girls Trip, Haddish is a stellar comedian whose recent work includes the 2016 film Keanu and NBC’s The Carmichael Show. And she showed off her impeccable comic timing on Wednesday’s episode of Jimmy Kimmel Live!,  telling the story of how she once got stoned (“the doctor told me to”) and invited her Girls Trip co-star Pinkett Smith and her fairly famous husband Will Smith on a “Groupon swamp tour” while they were filming the movie in New Orleans.
Related
“I thought it’d be super cool ... the alligators would be talking to me, the birds would be singing, the raccoons would be waving — it’d be like I’m in a Disney movie, you know what I’m saying?” she explained to Jimmy Kimmel, who started laughing and basically didn’t stop until the tale ended six minutes later. Haddish apparently didn’t anticipate that the couple would actually take her up on the offer to tour a swamp, leading to one of the more memorable afternoons of her life. (The same seems to hold true for Pinkett Smith, who told the same story — albeit in far less funny detail — to Jimmy Fallon the same night Haddish was on Kimmel.)
What elevates this story from good to great is the way Haddish slyly weaves in the thread of how startled her celebrity tag-alongs were by the experience of mingling with “normal people” for the first time in who knows how long. Haddish manages to skewer her new friends for being out of touch, but with loving amusement, as when she reveals that Pinkett Smith not only didn’t know what a “Groupon” is, but thought it meant that Haddish had “a boat that you could take a group of people on.”
“I was like, ‘Jada, I got a $20 a day rental car. Why would I have my own boat?’” Haddish recounted with a huge grin. “‘I got a discount ticket to get on a swamp, we’re about to have $66 worth of fun, girl.’”
From Jada worrying that Haddish’s rental car without tinted windows might be unsafe (Haddish: “You’re from Baltimore, bitch”) to Will mulling over the idea of buying his own swamp (Haddish: “You’re gonna buy a whole ecosystem?!”), her story of cruising around New Orleans with two of the most famous people in the world is a perfectly administered dose of ridiculousness that shows why Haddish should come out of Girls Trip a star.
One of the great joys of the internet is the way it can turn visual art into a vast potpourri of news and pop culture and centuries’ worth of art history, with tabloid pictures of the Kardashian-Jenner clan rubbing elbows with the post-expressionists. Visually sophisticated celebrities like Beyoncé and Kanye West fill their work with deliberate references to beloved paintings, and Tumblr posts diagram the golden ratio of Renaissance art onto news photographs. Any image can be a tabloid shot, and any image can be high art.
Enter the Twitter account Tabloid Art History, which celebrates the nexus of the topics in its title. Run by three current and former art students and based in the UK, Tabloid Art History places images from pop culture next to their precise analogues in art history: a picture of Kim Kardashian and Kanye West photographing their daughter next to a detail from Diego Velàzquez’s Las Meninas, featuring Velàzquez painting a child. Or a picture of Bettie Page with two leopards next to a 19-century painting of Circe with two lions that echoes Page’s exact pose.
The account’s raison d’être is right there in its bio: “Because for every pic of Lindsay Lohan falling, there's a Bernini sculpture begging to be referenced.”
'Newspaper Stack', taken of covers of Der Tagesspiegel, c.2017 // Francis Bacon, 'Head V1', c.1949 pic.twitter.com/yLY1AZLLge
It’s a wonderful thing to have in your Twitter feed, in the midst of all the outrage and anger of the day: a tabloid photo, with all the absurd frivolity that comes with it, and then a piece of art. It makes you see the tabloid photo in a new way, and sometimes the resonances of each echo off one another in strange and shivery ways that stay with you for the rest of the day.
Tabloid Art History was created in November 2016 by Edinburgh University students Chloe Esslemont (an English major and former art history major) and Elise Bell (an art history major). They were quickly joined by art history grad Mayanne Soret, and commenced excitedly mashing up tabloid fodder with art on a daily basis. Since then, they’ve racked up nearly 12,000 Twitter followers and are still growing, and have begun work on a companion zine for the London art collective Can’t Win Don’t Try.
Anna Nicole Smith at the 2005 MTV Video Awards // Detail from 'The Birth of Venus' by Botticelli, c. 1486 pic.twitter.com/YNj4Jqm61h
I spoke with the three women over email about how they built Tabloid Art History, the false divide between high culture and pop culture, and why and how we consume images.
The following conversation has been lightly edited for length and clarity.
What was the genesis for this project?
Myself and Elise have talked about our dual love of pop culture and art history (particularly the pre-Raphaelites and the Kardashians), and how we disagree with the seemingly common perception that they shouldn’t or don’t intersect; that pop culture is vapid and therefore incompatible with so-called “high culture.” We saw an image which compared a picture of Lindsay Lohan with a Bernini statue and we realized how easily it came to us to do the same thing.
The Ecstasy of St Teresa, Bernini (left), & Lindsay Lohan (right) pic.twitter.com/iOH4fxSKgC
From there, we would procrastinate in lectures (sorry, Edinburgh University staff!) by sending each other comparative images of Lindsay Lohan with Botticelli, Paris Hilton with a German expressionist woodcut, and so on. I then created the account and sent Chloe the password, and that was when it was born.
Exactly.
To say this started off with a plan in mind, or at least an idea of how popular the account would become, would be a complete lie. Whilst the foundations and theory behind it were there, it was more niche in jokes and a lack of space to express our love of art history and pop culture that started it.
Initially we thought we would post comparisons for about a week and then run out of ideas. We only followed our friends and my mum. That six months on so many people enjoy our content and we’re still coming up with comparisons months later is unexpected and lovely.
Kim K with Paris Hilton when she was Hilton's assistant // 'Unconscious Rivals' by Sir Lawrence Alma Tadema, 1893. pic.twitter.com/OoN4lnTRBh
What do you think we get out of putting tabloid pictures next to art?
I think we get to explore the differences and similarities between pop culture and “high” culture. The view that you can only enjoy ONE of these types of things has always annoyed us — we unabashedly love both, and what better way to celebrate that than combine them where possible?
Yeah! I really hate that idea that they are some things “worth” putting your intellectual energy on, or that there are such things as guilty pleasure in culture. If it makes you happy to spend time on, or if you feel it’s raising questions and making you think, then your interest and commitment are valid.
Nicole Kidman after having signed papers to divorce Tom Cruise, Hollywood, 2001 // Thomas Francis Dicksee, 'Miranda', 1895 pic.twitter.com/ohhKiLGWm7
The celebrities of our time, tabloid images, celebrity photo shoots, reality TV appearances: They are all just byproducts of visual media. We engage with them in the same way that past societies engaged with paintings of the Madonna in the Renaissance, or royal portraits, or the Cassandras and Athenas from the classical period.
You also get to see a lot of formal similarities, shapes and colors and positions that are similar and seem to convey the same message(s). You learn so much about the way you consume images, past and present, in that way.
It’s also so much more accessible [as a way into art history].
Yes, and that is really at the heart of what we’re trying to do. It’s important that the notion of art history as the bastion for good taste and high class is questioned and critiqued, especially in 2017, when the subject is still predominantly engaging only with a privileged subset of people and radically needs diversifying.
Janet Jackon and Justin Timberlake, 'nip slip', Super Bowl 2004 // Sofonsiba Anguissola, 'A Monk', c.1556 pic.twitter.com/eecPqYBWfy
What qualities do you look for in a picture when you put a post together? Do you have any favorites?
I can honestly say that out of the several hundred posts we’ve made, most have been very spontaneous and in the moment. This probably says more about how ridiculously we consume media, but they are almost always born out of a flash of inspiration, usually triggered by a photo we see on our Twitter feed or by a painting we see in our studies.
Kardashian family portrait, 'Double Denim', c.1991 // Yves Klein, 'Monochrome bleu sans titre' c.1960 pic.twitter.com/ZSg1dpW87B
It also depends on what about the picture stands out: Is it an expression? Body language or pose? Colors? A prop? We generally look toward a mixture of these things to point us in the direction of what will work together. Mood, tone, all of this is something that we consider.
Beyoncé unveils her twins for the first time, c.July 2017 // Sandro Botticelli, 'Madonna of the Pomegranate', c.1445-1510 pic.twitter.com/rUoKA9y73d
Elise and Chloe do most of the posting, I’ve been mostly working on the zine since April — we’ve released a first version when London art collective Can’t Win Don’t Try commissioned it, and we’ve been reworking it to publish it this summer since.
When I suggest a comparison, it’s just an image I saw that has a posture or color that I think is interesting. I also keep a file of all artworks I see that feel familiar — it may just be they look like a pop culture picture I’ve seen! Sometimes we put a bit more work in, like if an image goes viral (like Rihanna on a jet ski) or if there’s a specific pop culture event we want to honor (a music video like Dua Lipa’s latest single, or a photo shoot like Beyoncé’s pregnancy series).
Divine is fed cake by Grace Jones at Jones' 30th birthday party, LaFarfelle Disco, NY. 1978. // Michelangelo's 'Creation of Adam', 1510. pic.twitter.com/U45e8Xy5yc
in terms of favorites though, mine has to be the Divine and Grace Jones/“Creation of Adam” comparison, as is the Anna Nicole Smith/Botticelli Venus one.
Spice Girls on the set of a publicity photoshoot, 1994-2000 // Pablo Picasso, 'Les Demoiselles d'Avignon', c.1907 pic.twitter.com/FzXjYRMiNf
My personal favorites have to be either the Spice Girls photo shoot/“Les Demoiselles” comparison, or Trump on the cover of Der Tagesspiel/Francis Bacon Pope John X.
Grace Jones, Studio 54, 1977 // John William Waterhouse, 'Circe Offering the Cup to Ulysses', c.1891 pic.twitter.com/6Ku8HZfgIL
I really love all the Britney ones we did a few weeks back. Grace Jones/Waterhouse and the Kardashian clan/Yves Klein Blue are among my all-time favorites, though. But to be honest, every new one is my fave.
Britney Spears curls up in her car outside Social Hollywood in LA, November 2007// 'Danaë' by Gustav Klimt, oil on canvas,1907. pic.twitter.com/QylmYYz5H9
Is there a particular art history era or movement that you think our current cultural moment lends itself to?
What we love about what we do is that we don’t restrict ourselves to a particular time period of art history or type of art history either. We essentially have thousands of years to choose from. But in regards to right now…
Possibly the work of Hieronymus Bosch. The early Netherlandish period was full of images of people causing a mess, searching for divine inspiration or absolute hell on earth.
Justin Bieber getting choked in a nightclub c.2016 // Diccio di Bouninsegna, 'Kiss of Judas' (Detail) from the Maesta Altarpiece c.1308-11 pic.twitter.com/epcaeQniyN
Probably quite apt in terms of current global politics.
I also think today’s an exciting enough time in the arts as it is, to be honest. It’s tough because the current financial and political situations are shit pretty much everywhere in the world, but it also pushes young creators to take a stand, have a real look at the status quo and how it’s been benefiting the same people for the past centuries, and to find concrete solutions to bring it down and make art that represents all of us, our issues, our desires. We’re seeing more dialogue around age-old adages like, “It’s the art that counts, not the man.” It’s really what’s gonna make our time, that we’re confronting the old voices and their nonsense.
Rihanna riding side saddle on a jet ski, Barbados, c.2011 // Charles Emile Carlos-Duran, 'Madamoiselle in Riding Costume', c.1873 pic.twitter.com/paM6QaSwFL
What we have found limiting, however, and this is also reflective of our formal art history education and the lack of diversity within the canon, is how little literature or online resources there are dedicated to showing the art made by women and people of color. We get bored of matching tabloid imagery with works created by dead white men.
Yeah, we can’t pretend that we can detach ourselves from centuries of repeated narrative in less than a year on the internet! We have to make sure our comparisons go further than the obvious Western canon, and remind ourselves of that constantly (and we don’t always manage to). Twitter is a great platform for that.
Saying that, we’re making a very serious effort to broaden our horizons in terms of comparisons. Whilst the account can be seen as a crash course through art history, we’re also learning too.
Especially since we’ve started the zine and received our first articles, the kind of voices we attracted and the thing we could see taking shape from just one issue … it’s really been a space of total freedom for our contributors, and it’s really something that we want to build on and bring further. But of course if we want to represent the voices that have been singled out of the art historical discourse, past and present, we’re the first person we need to hold accountable for it.
Britney with an Albino Burmese Python, 2001, MTV Video Music Awards // Zoumana Sane, 'Mami Wata', c.1987 pic.twitter.com/kG7liyNBQc
Can’t Win Don’t Try, the art writers for Gal-Dem [a collective magazine made by women and nonbinary people of color], The White Pube [an art criticism website and research project], VANDAL [a DIY art organization] … we’re crazy inspired by the work these artists and young critics/curators are doing and they’ve primarily been able to do it using the internet as a medium to promote their voices. It’s a very exciting time to be getting involved with art.
Essentially, what we’re trying to do is make art history less scary, less intimidating, less classist, and bring it to a wider range of people, and it’s amazing how social media and the internet is allowing alternative art criticism and artmaking to flourish.
However disappointed Full Frontal With Samantha Bee was with Donald Trump’s presidential victory, the show has remained skeptical of just how much the #Resistance that’s sprung up since his inauguration will accomplish. And in its July 19 episode, the show took aim at one Resistance goal in particular: impeachment.
In a segment taped at a recent march for impeachment in Los Angeles, Full Frontal correspondents Mike Rubens and Ashley Nicole Black talked to some of the outraged liberals protesting the Trump administration by advocating for their wildest dream of getting the president kicked out of office.
“What was the day you decided that Trump should be impeached?” Black asked one woman, who immediately insisted that she was certain on day one that it needed to happen. “So it’s not so much that you wish for impeachment,” Black responded, “as it is that you wish for a different outcome to the election.”
Related
Outlining exactly how hard the road to impeachment is — especially given that the process relies on broad bipartisan support — Rubens then provided a handy reality check by pointing out that “more presidents have been removed from office by cholera than impeachment.”
“You do realize that being a dick is not an impeachable offense?” Black asked a different protester, who countered, “It should be.”
It’s not exactly that Full Frontal disagrees that Trump is unfit for office; it’s more that the show doesn’t believe marching in support of impeachment is actually going to solve anything. “Maybe the allure of an impossible dream was much easier to get behind than the reality of fighting for incremental change,” Rubens mused in his voiceover, his tone joking even as his words were grounded in palpable frustration.
Rubens and Black therefore attempted to guide protesters’ efforts toward a more practical approach with signs like “Go Vote!” and “Pay attention to local elections!” — a strategy that falls right in line with Full Frontal’s demonstrated insistence of pointing out the power of local politics to shape America’s policies.
Netflix released Last Chance U just two weeks after its 2016 summer breakaway hit, Stranger Things. Unsurprisingly, the documentary series was overshadowed by its near-simultaneous release with the Winona Ryder-led hit, and it also was competing with not just one, but a lot of other great summer shows. But removed from that summer glut, Last Chance U stands tall as one of Netflix’s best original series of the last few years, and with the second season debuting this week, the time has come to give it a closer look.
The six-episode first season of Last Chance U follows the 2015 football season of East Mississippi Community College (a.k.a. “Scooba Tech”); season two will focus on the same team, but with some new characters entering the mix (and some old ones leaving) this time around. Students join the program at Scooba as a last shot at a Division I football scholarship, and many of them balance on the line between passing and dropping out of school. The show is packed with heart-wrenching characters, and captures a part of the country rarely seen on TV. In that way, and many others, it’s reminiscent of another football show that was once overlooked, but over time grew to be a beloved series: Friday Night Lights.
Accordingly, maybe the biggest hurdle for potential viewers of Last Chance U is the same one Friday Night Lights had when it debuted 10 years ago: It’s a football show. But, like FNL, Last Chance U is also about so much more than that.
Friday Night Lights (FNL) and Last Chance U (LCU) have a lot in common. FNL was adapted from a nonfiction book about a high school team in Odessa, Texas. A GQ article inspired LCU. Both shows are about communities with bleak circumstances and slim opportunities that revolve around the local football team. They both pulse with Southern pride, and are steeped in faith, family, and football.
But whereas FNL was a network series with invented characters, LCU is a documentary about real people. The subjects of LCU — often struggling against poverty and unstable home lives — are even more haunting because they aren’t just characters that represent worldly truths, but real individuals, living in rural Mississippi.
In season one, there’s the star running back, DJ Law, who’s an unstoppable force on the field and would be able to go to any Division I school he wanted, if he could just pass his classes. “Nobody in my family ever been this far,” Law says to the camera in the first episode. He says he’s playing football for his son back in Florida, but he’s also missing him growing up. He says if he can get to the NFL, then he can take care of him.
There’s Brittany Wagner, the team’s academic adviser, who loves the players to an unequaled degree and tirelessly fights to keep them in the classroom and on the field. She’s a maternal force in their football-centric lives, a little like Connie Britton’s Tami Taylor in FNL — but again, she’s an actual person, and therefore all the more affecting. In one episode, Wagner confesses she doesn’t have much of a life outside her job and taking care of her daughter. “I think I’m a very successful single mom,” she says, “and hopefully it won’t be like this forever.”
Then there’s Ronald Ollie, a gigantic young man from a trailer park in Shubuta, Mississippi. Like many of his peers, Ollie is heartbreakingly bad at school, and seems sincerely incapable of focusing in the classroom. He also has abandonment issues: His dad murdered his mom and then killed himself when Ollie was just 5 years old.
Leading the charge is head coach Buddy Stephens, a hard-swearing mountain of a man, who’s as sincerely invested in helping these young people improve their lives as he is in winning football games. And he does win. In the first season of LCU, EMCC is working on its third consecutive Junior College Championship. And they don’t just beat other teams — they clobber them.
LCU opens with shots of dead lawns and boarded-up buildings, and journalist Drew Jubera talks about the first time he drove across the railroad tracks into Scooba, Mississippi. He says, “You see the old downtown, and the one thing that’s operating is a Coke machine on the sidewalk. It really kind of tells you everything you need to know about the place.”
In LCU, the characters more often express disdain than love for their town, and Scooba has as much in common with Flannery O’Connor’s dilapidated Georgia as it does with the proud Texas of FNL. There’s a sense that even if there were better times, they weren’t much better. One of the richest tensions in LCU comes from the swerve away from the more provincial mentality of FNL. Once in a while, the players talk about bringing pride back home, but more often they just talk about getting out.
And their mentors — coaches, teachers, and fans — help them toward that end. A soft-spoken maintenance man with greying hair, Chuck Luke helps the players if they have any issues with their dorm rooms. In one scene, nearly choking up, he says “I get to watch ‘em go on up into bigger schools, and I get to watch ‘em go on up into pro. And, um … It’s just a great experience in my life.”
But escaping from Scooba depends on winning football games. When Ollie gets put out three games with a concussion, he jeopardizes his future recruitment, which captures another poignant obsession of the show: How did football become these guys’ best shot at a better life?
“Are we really doing the best we can?” Coach Stephens says, reflecting on his players as students, thinking about how if they miss class, they should miss practice, and then miss games. “Every coach, every team in America has the same thing they have to go through. Where’s my line? When have I put winning or being successful on the field ahead of truly putting the success of the student athlete? We all do that.”
Like FNL — and like in any reasonable conversation about football — LCU also engages with the violent sacrifices demanded by the sport. Clint Trickett, the quarterback coach for the team and a former star player, describes how he was able to hide some of his concussions in high school and college. There’s old footage of him getting hit and going limp in a series of plays. He confesses during one stretch he endured five concussions within 14 months. “I’ve had some brain problems and some trouble with that,” he says pointing at his head, “but this game’s done so much more for me than anything else could have done.”
What’s perhaps most rich — and gut-wrenching — about the stories of the players in LCU is that, while they struggle in the classroom and their lives, they are beautiful forces on the football field. You will want something more for them; but outside of football, it’s not just that the deck is stacked against them. They don’t know any other game.
In keeping with this heartbreaking ambiguity surrounding the sport on which it turns, the first season of LCU culminates in a late-season match that doesn’t end with a win, loss, or a tie, but instead a disaster that blasts opportunities open for one player, while sweeping them away for others.
Some of them do make it out of Scooba. Some of them will continue to fight in season two.
Season one of Last Chance U is available to stream on Netflix. Season two debuts Friday, July 21.
The best thing about Girls Trip is that the film sees genitalia humor not simply as a dare, but as something to commit to 150 percent and be immensely proud of. No scene is too small or too serious for a dick joke. No combination of words is too filthy to apply to lady parts. No prop is safe from thrusty, lusty pantomimes.
While on its surface, Girls Trip follows in the footsteps of Hollywood’s women-behaving-badly reaction to the Hangover films — the bro-com trilogy about bachelor parties gone rudely awry — in this one realm in particular, it easily tops its predecessors. It’s one of the raunchiest comedies the “misbehaving women” genre has ever seen.
Rating
Well-behaved women rarely make history, the saying goes. Misbehaving ones, then, have become something of a cinematic fascination since the first Hangover movie debuted in 2009. Think: Bridesmaids (2011), Bad Teacher (2011), How to Be Single (2016), Bad Moms (2016), Mike and Dave Need Wedding Dates (2016), Snatched (2017), and, earlier this summer, Rough Night.
A lot of those movies — with the exception of Bridesmaids — were middling experiences, following the same sequence of raunch, alcohol, disaster, and redemption. And Girls Trip doesn’t break the mold: The plot revolves around the reunion of four girlfriends, known as the Flossy Posse, for one raucous weekend in New Orleans.
But what the movie does so well, and what sets it apart, is the way it unapologetically lives up to its promise of raunch and sleaze.
Even if Girls Trip isn’t your kind of movie, you might still admire the film’s commitment and determination to shock you. But it’s so much more fun if you’re into that sort of thing.
Girls Trip’s protagonist Ryan (Regina Hall) is also the narrator. A relationship expert who touts that “women can have it all,” she’s successful, married, and on the verge of becoming the next Oprah. It follows, then, that Girls Trip’s script is full of mentions of Ryan “having it all,” a reference to the now-famous 2012 Atlantic article by Anne-Marie Slaughter. But the movie doesn’t really explore the struggle to balance career and family — Ryan’s work mainly consists of silly conversations with her agent (Kate Walsh).
Instead, both Girls Trip and Ryan are more concerned with the fraying friendship between Ryan and her girlfriends: hungry-for-clicks gossip website editor Sasha (Queen Latifah), funemployed Dina (Tiffany Haddish), and doting mother Lisa (Jada Pinkett Smith). Ryan’s success has scored the group an all-expenses-paid trip to Essence Fest in New Orleans — where most of those expenses are bars, drinks, and hungover breakfasts — and that’s where titular adventure of Girls Trip begins.
We don’t really know how Ryan, Sasha, Dina, and Lisa became friends, other than that they all went to college together. But without giving too much away, at some point there was a split between two of the women that has caused all four of them to fall out of touch.
We also never really learn much about any of the four women that goes beyond the archetypes they’re playing. But Hall, Latifah, Haddish, and Pinkett Smith are all game to give their characters plenty of verve and spirit, even if they’re underwritten and two-dimensional. Latifah brings a sturdy strength to Sasha, and Pinkett Smith in particular gets to dive into some fun physical comedy as the prudish Lisa becomes the butt of most of the film’s jokes.
But it’s Haddish, the least well-known actress among the four, who steals the spotlight. Haddish is a standup comic whose credits include Keanu and NBC’s The Carmichael Show, but Girls Trip shows she deserves more.
Her character Dina is brash, bold, rude, and messy, and Haddish commits to the character every step of the way. She’s an unapologetic MacGyver of raunch in this film, turning an unsuspecting fruit basket into the movie’s best moment. In one scene, Dina is explaining the type of foul and vulgar physical revenge she wants to exact on a man, and Haddish brings the joke — complete with deranged hand gestures and torso twisting — to a demented, howl-inducing level.
But Dina’s vulnerable, too. She’s the clown among her friends, who have seemingly all grown up, and she knows it. So while the character has Girls Trip’s flashiest lines and scenes by far, Haddish’s performance becomes more jarring when the actress sharpens her comedy into something more defensive than offensive, or drops the act altogether. It brings a tender humanity to Dina, who, for the entire movie, seems invincible.
By the end of the film, I was hoping Haddish’s Dina might somehow end up with her own spinoff movie. Perhaps a franchise where Dina is always on vacation. Or just a few more films where Haddish gets to do whatever she wants.
Girls Trip’s biggest weakness is that you can guess the beats the film wants to hit before you even step into the theater. What you see in the movie’s trailers is mostly what you get: Drinking and partying become a way for the characters to explore their relationships with one another, in a similar vein to the aforementioned movies in this genre.
The story, written by Kenya Barris (Black-ish), Karen McCullah, Tracy Oliver (Barbershop: The Next Cut), and Erica Rivinoja, rarely strays from this objective, even though the film contains a few moments — including one about how white women co-opt black slang, and another about marketing the idea of “having it all” to women — where it seems like there’s plenty of opportunity to do so.
But I didn’t mind the predictability of the movie because, to be quite honest, if I’m buying a ticket to Girls Trip, it’s not because I’m looking for fancy cinematography or nonlinear storytelling or stunning visual effects. For the love of all that is holy, the movie is about characters who say “booty hole,” not some kind of overstylized Terrence Malick visual orgy.
I’m here for the dick jokes.
If I’m going to see a raunch comedy, I want the dick jokes to have their own tangential dick jokes. I want to drown in a sea of dick jokes.
And on that front, Barris, McCullah, Oliver, and Rivinoja have a winner in Girls Trip. The movie truly goes for broke with rude raunch. It shows — not tells — you that a grapefruit can be used during sex, complete with choking sounds and pulp spilling every which way. There’s an impressive amount of audacity and fearlessness on display, as Girls Trip lets its scenes swirl around onscreen for a bit, and then finds a new way to shock you, or make you smirk the next time you find yourself in the vicinity of a grapefruit.
While Daenerys finally reaching Westeros was the big payoff Game of Thrones fans have been waiting ages for, the season seven premiere, “Dragonstone,” had another moment of personal revelation that, while quieter, was no less poignant: After taking refuge at a seemingly abandoned farm, Sandor “the Hound” Clegane buries the farmer and his daughter whose fate he sealed back in season four by taking the money they’d hidden. His heartfelt (albeit rusty) eulogy is a stunning moment years in the making that feels as earned as any major moment in the series’ history.
Death is such an essential part of the Game of Thrones universe that it’s easy to become numb to it unless it happens to a favorite character or in particularly awesome fashion. But the Hound’s recognition that the poor father and daughter he abandoned to their certain deaths in season four deserved better, while a small concession, is one of the most dramatic perspective shifts the show has executed.
Characters on Game of Thrones don’t make it this long for no reason, and with the exception of a brief disappearance last year, the Hound has entrenched himself as one of the longest-tenured players on the series. His continued presence in a series that has few qualms about dispatching characters who’ve outlived their narrative use, combined with his actions in “Dragonstone,” signals a shift that becomes all the more intriguing as the series moves toward its endgame: Westeros’s preeminent nihilist may have finally found purpose after all.
While Arya and Daenerys got the big, rousing moments in “Dragonstone” — poisoning the remaining Freys (good riddance to the McPoyles of Westeros) and reclaiming the Targaryen ancestral home, respectively — Clegane shouldered much of the episode’s dramatic arc.
Last season when they met at the Riverlands, Beric Dondarrion told him, “You can still help a lot more than you’ve harmed, Clegane. It’s not too late for you.” The Hound agreed to accompany Dondarrion and the Brotherhood Without Banners on their journey north, ostensibly to fight the White Walkers. Season seven picks up there, with a scene that suggests the Hound may wind up having the most powerful redemptive arc on the series.
In “Dragonstone,” Clegane and the Brotherhood spend the night at a seemingly abandoned farm and discover the corpses of a farmer and his daughter, who killed themselves rather than suffer starvation through the winter. The farm in question is the very one where the Hound and Arya stayed while he was bringing her to Lysa Arryn in season four. Back then, when Clegane robbed the farmer of his remaining gold, he justified it to a distraught Arya by saying, “They’ll both be dead come winter” — just one in a series of fatalistic decisions from a character who has never found much to support in the form of banners or basic human decency.
This is precisely why the Hound is poised to have the most profound character arc on the series. Showrunners David Benioff and D.B. Weiss have spent much of Game of Thrones illustrating that the squabbles over the Iron Throne pale in comparison to the looming threat beyond the wall (Davos Seaworth says as much in one of the season’s trailers). When the White Walkers were a distant threat and it seemed like all that mattered in Westeros was ruling the realm, there wasn’t room for a nihilistic character like Sandor “Fuck the Kingsguard, fuck the city, fuck the king” Clegane to serve a larger role; the show’s political landscape gave him an excuse to kill while keeping a clear conscience, but no greater purpose.
But the time Clegane spent with Septon Ray last season clearly opened him up to the idea of being in service to something greater than himself — and the senseless murder of Ray’s followers by rogue Brotherhood members allowed him to see from the other side the impact of senseless killing. As the show’s focus has continued to shift to the icy existential threat heading toward the wall, the life-or-death stakes allow room for Clegane to become a much-needed (anti)hero. He’s been given the opportunity to fight for something infinitely more significant than protecting Joffrey.
Arguably, it’s more powerful and affirming for a character like the Hound to go from believing in nothing to risking his life to fight for the preservation of humanity than it is for, say, Tyrion to finally be properly valued by Daenerys, or Sansa going from naive would-be queen to cunning political operator. Clegane developing a belief system and moral code is a much greater shift than any of the other characters simply realizing they had misplaced priorities; for the Hound, something is finally taking the place of nothing.
Clegane’s character development is even more powerful when you compare it to that of his brother, Gregor “the Mountain” Clegane, who has moved to the complete other end of the humanity spectrum and now exists as an unthinking, obedient weapon for Cersei, whose sole purpose is to kill for her political gain. As the Hound continues on his path toward redemption (or something close to it), the stakes of a potential “Cleganebowl” become less of a “pretty bad versus really bad” situation and more of the kind of unambiguous good versus evil conflict that Game of Thrones rarely gives us.
Crucially, the Hound may be beginning to find faith through the Lord of Light as he continues his travel with the Brotherhood. Vox critic at large Todd VanDerWerff celebrated the Hound in his winners and losers recap of the season premiere “for overcoming his fear of fire to gain prophetic gifts,” and the scene in “Dragonstone” where he stares into the hearth at the behest of Thoros of Myr and sees the army of the dead shows that he is capable of opening himself up to a higher power, and of being a vessel for something he doesn’t yet fully understand.
It’s a bit premature to put much stock into the notion that Clegane may in fact be Azor Ahai, which has been gaining steam recently, but perhaps where there’s smoke there is indeed fire (and a flaming sword). The show has trimmed down its regular cast of characters considerably, especially those who aren’t members of the three central families. And yet not only did Benioff and Weiss bring the Hound back last season, but he also got considerable screen time in “Dragonstone,” laying the groundwork that the Hound’s personal growth and enlightenment may end up playing a bigger role in the war to come than his brute strength and killer instinct ever could have.
O.J. Simpson will face a parole board Thursday regarding several remaining counts from a 2007 incident at a Las Vegas casino, for which he was sentenced to 33 years in prison. If the court decides in his favor, Simpson could be released from prison by October.
The hearing is unrelated to the 1994 killing of Simpson’s ex-wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend Ron Goldman, of which he was acquitted in 1995. That much more high-profile case returned to public attention last year when two prestigious TV projects dug into the trial and the attention it commanded.
Simpson, 70, was convicted in 2008 on 12 charges of attempted armed robbery and kidnapping stemming from a 2007 confrontation in a casino hotel room over sports memorabilia. As the New York Times reported at the time, Simpson burst into the hotel room of memorabilia dealers Bruce Fromong and Alfred Beardsley on September 13, 2007, brandishing a gun. The dealers said they were led to believe someone was coming to browse the goods with the intent to purchase them and were confronted and threatened by Simpson and four other men. According to the Times, Simpson said his intent was to “retrieve” the items on offer, which he said were personal keepsakes and included photos of his family and a ceremonial football.
Simpson has been behind bars for the past eight and a half years, since going to prison in December 2008. After he vowed to appeal his conviction, his bid for a new trial was rejected in 2013 — though he was paroled that same year on five of the 12 counts for good behavior. He remained in prison for the rest of the charges.
Simpson will appear in front of the Nevada Parole Board in Carson City via videoconference from the Lovelock Correctional Center in Lovelock, Nevada. The hearing is scheduled for 1 pm Eastern.
The Nevada Parole Board states that “all decisions to grant or deny parole require a majority of the Board,” which is made up of four members. Simpson will face the same four parole board members who were present at his 2013 parole hearing. If the panel is not unanimous, two additional commissioners will be tapped to weigh in, and the final decision will be announced on Thursday. Deliberations are expected to take no more than 20 to 30 minutes.
The Nevada Parole Board has created an official website to share information about Simpson’s parole hearing. It features several live-stream links, a public Dropbox for photos and notes, and several Q&A documents outlining the official procedures and expectations for the hearing.
You can live-stream the hearing via KTVU or NBC, or on Facebook.
O.J. Simpson will face a parole board Thursday regarding several remaining counts from a 2007 incident at a Las Vegas casino, for which he was sentenced to 33 years in prison. If the court decides in his favor, Simpson could be released from prison by October.
The hearing is unrelated to the 1994 killing of Simpson’s ex-wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend Ron Goldman, of which he was acquitted in 1995. That much more high-profile case returned to public attention last year when two prestigious TV projects dug into the trial and the attention it commanded.
Simpson, 70, was convicted in 2008 on 12 charges of attempted armed robbery and kidnapping stemming from a 2007 confrontation in a casino hotel room over sports memorabilia. As the New York Times reported at the time, Simpson burst into the hotel room of memorabilia dealers Bruce Fromong and Alfred Beardsley on September 13, 2007, brandishing a gun. The dealers said they were led to believe someone was coming to browse the goods with the intent to purchase them and were confronted and threatened by Simpson and four other men. According to the Times, Simpson said his intent was to “retrieve” the items on offer, which he said were personal keepsakes and included photos of his family and a ceremonial football.
Simpson has been behind bars for the past eight and a half years, since going to prison in December 2008. After he vowed to appeal his conviction, his bid for a new trial was rejected in 2013 — though he was paroled that same year on five of the 12 counts for good behavior. He remained in prison for the rest of the charges.
Simpson will appear in front of the Nevada Parole Board in Carson City via videoconference from the Lovelock Correctional Center in Lovelock, Nevada. The hearing is scheduled for 1 pm Eastern.
The Nevada Parole Board states that “all decisions to grant or deny parole require a majority of the Board,” which is made up of four members. Simpson will face the same four parole board members who were present at his 2013 parole hearing. If the panel is not unanimous, two additional commissioners will be tapped to weigh in, and the final decision will be announced on Thursday. Deliberations are expected to take no more than 20 to 30 minutes.
The Nevada Parole Board has created an official website to share information about Simpson’s parole hearing. It features several live-stream links, a public Dropbox for photos and notes, and several Q&A documents outlining the official procedures and expectations for the hearing.
You can live-stream the hearing via KTVU or NBC, or on Facebook.
Mad Men was always a show about men who didn’t — or couldn’t — change.
No matter how many times the men of Sterling Cooper (Draper Pryce) tried, the series always sent them back to the self-destructive routines they knew best. Those patterns could be anything from the liquor they kept in their desk drawers to the women they slept with to the larger worldviews that kept them anchored to their own pasts — and, more often than not, ensured they sank.
Looking back at the pilot of Mad Men — which premiered on AMC 10 years ago this Wednesday — isn’t quite like looking back at the pilot of most shows, which tend to be almost hilariously different from whatever came later, when the series figured out what it actually wanted to be. Mad Men always knew who world-weary Don Draper was, who petulant prepster Pete Campbell wanted to emulate, who cavalier heir Roger Sterling was thrilled to be. Sure, the writers and actors finessed their depictions along the way, but nothing about where each of those characters ended up by the series finale would have surprised anyone who met them in the first episode.
The women of Mad Men, however, are an entirely different — and far more dynamic — story.
Related
When we first meet Peggy Olson and Joan Holloway, they’re secretaries who know they’re smart, but are also staring down an endless row of grinning frat-guy superiors and trying to be realistic about their chances of success beyond their assigned desks. Betty Draper is barely a blip on the radar, only appearing in the final minutes of the episode as the twist of Don’s suburban life. And while Peggy’s storyline in season one develops into an obvious parallel to Don’s as she reveals a knack for advertising, Joan was never supposed to become the powerhouse she became down the line. In fact, as per creator Matthew Weiner, Joan’s original purpose was just to be a “courtesan” who taught people the ways of the office. Eventually, all three women reveal rich inner lives their male counterparts never bothered to consider were there, and create the kind of lives they once assumed they never could have.
For as much as Mad Men was about the cyclical frustrations of petty men, it was also about the determination and creativity of women. Just as much as Mad Men knew Don Draper would never change, it discovered that its women — especially Peggy and Joan — were destined to take the kinds of journeys he never could.
Mad Men’s very first scene has Don Draper sitting in a restaurant booth, surrounded by smoke and other “Mad Men” who make their livings selling American dreams as he scribbles pitches for Lucky Strike on a napkin. He grills a waiter about his favorite cigarette brand, marveling at the man’s seemingly unshakable loyalty, and then orders another drink.
“I’ll do this again,” Don says. “Old Fashioned.”
The fact that this is Don’s drink of choice is a little on the nose, but in true Mad Men fashion, that detail is also meticulously chosen. The more we get to know Don Draper — the man, the constructed myth, the self-destructive legend — the less surprising it is that he returns again and again to an Old Fashioned.
Don’s journey over seven seasons of Mad Men is one of a man who wanted with all his might to be a different person — something made literal in the first season, as it was revealed “Don” was a facsimile hiding “Dick Whitman,” the scared boy who grew up in a brothel and crafted himself a new, sleeker identity after the Korean War.
Mad Men always brought Don to the brink of real change, only to yank him back again. He gives up drinking, gives in to drinking, gives it up and comes back to it all over again. He expresses interest in being a more involved parent, then blinks in surprise when his daughter Sally appears to have grown up without him noticing. Once Betty becomes sick of his shit and presses for a divorce, he trades her for a more modern version of the model wife (see: Megan) — which also ends in divorce. He mentors Peggy, more by accident than design. He falls apart, and stumbles back up, and crumbles all over again, waiting for someone — usually, some woman — to come by and put him back together.
Even his clothes scream that he’s a man who would resist true transformation at any cost; as Tom and Lorenzo have pointed out in their stellar “Mad Style” breakdowns, Don’s suits stubbornly stayed the same throughout the show (give or take a slightly wider lapel), while most everyone around him embraced the new trends of the evolving world.
Don is one of the most deeply felt TV characters ever, and Jon Hamm’s performance reveals more layers every time I watch it. But at some point, Mad Men made it clear that Don’s slow and steady breakdown was never going to end — and he was never going to change.
In the very last scene of the series, Don has run away to California — his place of choice to do drugs with hippies and escape himself — to try to find some semblance of peace. The last we see of him is his placid expression as he attempts meditation — and the series then cuts to the famous 1971 “I’d Like to Buy the World a Coke” ad, which plays Mad Men out for good. In interviews afterward, Weiner was less ambiguous than the show about the fact that Don created the ad, which confirms a truth about Don the show never shied away from: Here is a man who wants to be better, but in times of trouble he will always go back to what he already knows.
This truth about Don couldn’t have been surprising to anyone who saw the show’s first episode, in which he also takes a seemingly transformative experience and turns it into an ad. The breakthrough moment of the pilot, in fact, comes when Don snags the Lucky Strike account by appealing to a room of powerful men with a very simple pitch: “Advertising is based on one thing — happiness.”
“And you know what happiness is?” Don continues, as the Lucky Strike men fight their instinctive smiles. “It’s the smell of a new car. It's freedom. It's a billboard on the side of the road that screams reassurance that whatever you're doing is okay. You are okay."
All Don Draper wanted was to be happy. But all Don knew was how to create facsimiles of happiness — and so he never found a way to make it real for himself.
But his female counterparts, against much greater odds than Don Draper faced, did.
While Don spun his wheels, Pete threw tantrums, and Roger pickled himself to distraction, Peggy was busy getting shit done.
The pilot only shows glimmers of what’s to come for Peggy, but her journey is the most purposefully progressive Mad Men ever did (and, thanks to actor Elisabeth Moss, one of the most compelling on TV, period). She started as Don’s secretary, but quickly revealed a wit that made her his most obvious creative successor. Eventually she carved out her own place in the relentlessly misogynistic advertising industry, by sheer force of will and undeniably sharper instincts.
One of the more interesting aspects of Peggy’s character is that she didn’t necessarily want to be a pioneer. If she were around today, she might even deride affirmative action as an unnecessary act of pity that denigrates the value of hard work. But by the simple virtue of being a woman who pushed past a constant onslaught of sexist bullshit to get what she wanted, Peggy grew into a force that dared men to reckon with her brilliance, and smirked when she got the better of them.
The first season of Mad Men made plain the parallels between Peggy’s story of discovering her creative voice and Don having done the same, and the series continued to develop her trajectory into something even more complex and fascinating than Don’s. But that Joan followed suit was a surprise to everyone (including the show’s own creative team), and a turn that reveals how Mad Men found new possibilities in places it didn’t expect.
Watching the first episode of Mad Men reveals exactly how little Mad Men knew — or even cared to know — about Joan Holloway. She’s not much more a sashaying column of red strutting through the office to show Peggy the ropes. She assures Peggy that the typewriter might look complicated, but “the men who designed it made it simple enough for a woman to use,” and then instructs her new hire to go home, put a paper bag over her head, and assess where her strengths and weaknesses are. (“And be honest.”) She’s basically the leader of the sorority that is the Sterling Cooper steno pool, and woe betide the secretary (or drooling man) who dared cross her.
But per Weiner, Christina Hendricks made it impossible for Joan not to become more than what the character herself calls “something in between a mother and a waitress” in that first episode. In Hendricks’s hands, Joan didn’t just show Peggy around; she surveyed her territory, wielding her wicked smile and swaying hips like well-honed weapons of charm. When someone pissed her off, her eyes flashed fury, foreshadowing the righteous wrath to come.
Soon enough, it became impossible to ignore the fact that Joan was too smart to be satisfied with corralling lunch orders. Her ambitions grew despite her more practical judgment, morphed to leap beyond the men in her life who disappointed and devastated her. If you only knew Joan from the pilot, the fact that the series ends with Joan offering Peggy a partnership in her own production company would be just as mind-boggling as it would be thrilling.
Joan, like Peggy, didn’t necessarily set out to become more than what the world told her she could be: a decently smart gal who would make some man moderately happy someday. But Mad Men nonetheless lifted up Joan and Peggy’s fight to be taken seriously — a fight they won — as pointed counterparts to its men, stuck in their own loops of self-defeating self-pity.
There isn’t much technology onscreen in director David Lowery’s (literally) haunting new film, A Ghost Story, but the growth of the internet and the inescapability of our devices serve as inspiration for both his new supernatural romantic drama and his overall filmmaking process.
“I was going back through my blog that I’ve been keeping since high school and found an entry around seven or eight years ago where I was, like, cataloguing appearances of ghosts in sheets in other media, whether it was film or music videos,” Lowery tells Vox critic at large Todd VanDerWerff on the latest episode of his podcast, I Think You’re Interesting. “Even in Halloween, when Michael Myers wears the sheet with the glasses, it’s a really striking image that really just is funny but also unsettling at the same time.”
Lowery’s latest film follows C (Casey Affleck), who experiences the afterlife while watching as his wife M (Rooney Mara) grieves his unexpected death. It’s the director’s fourth feature, following 2016’s live-action reimagining of Disney’s Pete’s Dragon, and is inspired in part by an argument Lowery and his wife had about moving.
In terms of his cinematic influences, Lowery cites Quentin Tarantino as a major figure, but notes that he was also shaped by streaming culture and the ability it gave him to engage with directors and cinematic movements he’d never experienced prior.
“The point in my life when I got Netflix was sort of a big door opening. Up until that point, I was a big-screen purist; I only wanted to see things on the big screen,” Lowery says. “I didn’t go to film school, so I didn’t have access to the French New Wave or [John] Cassavetes movies, so once Netflix emerged, all of a sudden I just jumped headlong into so many different types of movies and was so taken with all of them and just wanted to absorb as much as possible.”
Lowery’s relationship with technology informs his own films as well. But while so many contemporary films rely on technology to the point that they feel dated after an OS update, Lowery’s work is inspired by it in subtler ways, as seen in A Ghost Story’s untraditional narrative. As VanDerWerff notes, there’s a shift from the “analog world” into a more modern one centered on the internet and technology. He asks Lowery, “Do you think about that passage of time at all? Do you feel that cleaving in your own life between the world that was and now this world that is?”
Lowery responds:
I think about it a lot, especially in terms of how it affects my day-to-day life and how it affects the neurological pathways in my brain. I definitely wonder if I was better off before I had a phone in my pocket all the time that was telling me all the things it tells me every minute of every day. I think a lot about whether it’s softening me. I’ve done enough research on it to know that our neural pathways are changing with the way we intake information at this point, and I don’t think it’s for the worse, but sometimes I do.
For those reasons, contemporary technology has never played much of an onscreen role in Lowery’s films. Ain’t Them Bodies Saints is set in the 1970s, Pete’s Dragon primarily spans the ’70s and ’80s, and his debut feature, 2009’s St. Nick, is set in an ultra-rural slice of Texas.
“All of my films have been set in eras prior to that technology for that reason, because I feel like I’m able to tell stories better if I just remove that facet of life from them. A Ghost Story is contemporary, but at the beginning it’s sort of in an elusive period where you don’t see that much technology,” Lowery tells VanDerWerff. “You see MacBooks, things like that, but not a lot of mobile phones, and the setting itself is very antiquated. The house feels old, it feels vaguely rural; that’s the type of neighborhood I live in, and I like that.”
Another unique flourish to A Ghost Story is its aspect ratio, which VanDerWerff likens to a Polaroid photo or an Instagram crop and is technically the old Academy ratio. Lowery said that being able to see his film in a frame allows him to better contextualize what he is seeing.
“I often find that my own movies never feel as real to me as they do when I’m looking at them on my phone, because that just somehow puts them in a box,” Lowery says. “I’m a big-screen person, I go see everything on the big screen, but for my own work it helps to watch it on a phone, because then it finally feels real to me.”
For more of VanDerWerff’s conversation with Lowery, including the power of filming in the director’s home state of Texas and what he remembers of his first day on a movie set, listen to the full episode.
To hear more interviews with fascinating people from the world of arts and culture — from powerful showrunners to web series creators to documentary filmmakers — check out the I Think You’re Interesting archives.
Just when Keegan-Michael Key thought he was done playing Barack Obama’s “anger translator,” Stephen Colbert (or, more accurately, President Donald Trump) pulled him back in.
Key first honed the character of “Luther” on his Comedy Central sketch series Key & Peele, playing the physical embodiment of the unrestrained inner monologue of Jordan Peele’s carefully considered Obama. Luther even made it to the 2015 White House Correspondents’ Dinner, where the actual Obama called on Key to perform the role.
Key figured his Luther days were behind him once Obama left office. He was wrong, but as he told Colbert with a winking grin during Tuesday’s episode of The Late Show, “I think there’s probably something brewing up in Luther,” hinting that it was high time to bring him back. So Colbert read a few of the (very few) things Obama has said publicly since Trump was inaugurated, prompting Key to reprise Luther’s trademark histrionic reactions.
First, Colbert read from Obama’s statement on how the Republicans’ proposed health care plan would hurt you “if there’s a chance you might get sick, get old, or start a family” — and after a mere moment’s consideration from Key, Luther went off.
“C’mon, people! Trumpcare?” Luther shrieked. “More like Trump don’t care! I’m talkin’ ‘Don T. Care,’ don’t care.”
Jumping up and down in frustration, Luther-as-Obama pointed out that hey, he worked with bipartisan groups to come up with his health care plan, so “what are y’all hiding, huh? ... Maybe y’all just don’t want anyone to see that you’re just all cooped up in a dungeon over a kettle just making a potion.”
(Note: There is absolutely zero way I can convey to you how beautifully unhinged Key/Luther became at this point as he mimed stirring the contents of a witch’s cauldron, so make sure to match the incredible visual to the words at 2:45 in the clip above.)
In conclusion, Luther screamed, “I would say you people make me sick, but I can’t afford that, because I wouldn’t have no damn insurance! Fuck.”
Next up for anger translation: Obama stating at an event with Germany’s Angela Merkel that “we can’t isolate ourselves; we can’t hide behind a wall.”
“I spent eight years tearing down walls, and this motherfucker wants to put ’em all up!” Luther cried, leaping up from Colbert’s couch, pacing around the set in restless rage, and eventually launching himself into an outraged backward somersault (a thing I didn’t even know was possible).
(And again: There is no translating I can do to convey Key’s fantastic physicality as Luther gets angrier and angrier, so I beg you to check it out for yourself.)
“I thought I was on a forced retirement, y’all,” Luther concluded, panting for breath. “But it looks like Obama still needs me, so I’m back.”
For how long, it’s impossible to say. Still: The way things are going, it sure seems like Luther will have plenty of latent wrath to work with.
The first five minutes of Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets, iconoclast Luc Besson’s latest magnum opus, emotionally overwhelmed me in a way I wasn’t expecting, in a way I dare not say a word more about.
The next 20 minutes or so weren’t quite to that level, but they were a fun first-act romp, first setting up a deep, interstellar tragedy that befalls a peaceful alien race, and then bounding half a galaxy away for an action sequence involving Valerian, our hero, having to fight off attackers while his arm is stuck in another dimension.
“This is good,” I thought. “I don’t think I’ve ever seen anything quite like this.”
Rating
Weird, wildly imaginative sci-fi is my jam, and Valerian bursts with ideas. Every few minutes, Besson tosses out seemingly half a dozen more, leaving viewers breathless from the movie’s scope. He’ll casually drop in, say, a chase sequence where Valerian bursts through walls into various zones within the titular city (so named because it has accommodations for so many different alien species), and then follow it up with something even zanier.
But the longer Valerian runs, the more energy begins to ooze out of it, like it’s slowly deflating. By the time the climax rolled around, I found myself strangely complacent about the whole thing. It’s the rare movie where I feel no real compunctions about spoiling the ending, but also regret that I’ve told you even a little bit about the early action sequences.
In other words, it’s a movie that just stops being exciting, where the final action sequence is the most perfunctory gun battle imaginable, where the titular character ends up being the least interesting character of all.
But maybe that’s the point.
Valerian is based on the French comics Valérian and Laureline, which depict the far-future adventures of the titular duo, who wander deep space in search of adventures to have and missions to complete. The series, published from 1967 to 2010, is considered a cornerstone of French comics, though it’s less well-known in the US. (This has shades of the much more popular Tintin, also finally turned into a big-budget movie in the 2010s.)
In creating the scenario for the film, Besson was able to simply riff on many of the comics’ core ideas, one of which is the difficult intersection of bang-bang, pew-pew space opera fun and larger questions of ethical behavior. Valerian is, in essence, a movie about how diplomacy and talking out problems are less cinematically interesting than a big space battle, but also necessary for the survival of intelligent life in the universe.
That’s an idea first introduced in that prologue — in which Besson covers roughly 250 years of history — by a series of time cuts that leap forward across the decades. American astronauts first welcome Chinese space voyagers to their space station in the year 2020, and Besson keeps cutting forward and forward (to the strains of David Bowie’s “Space Oddity”), as delegations from unnamed other nations join the space station and then other planets, every meeting marked with a simple handshake.
The station, now known as Alpha, grows and grows as millions come to live upon it, and then it pushes off for the stars, before it can grow so heavy it affects Earth’s tides. It’s meant as a beacon of hope and cooperation for every species it encounters.
It’s a good idea in theory. But there are human beings on board, and human beings are often violent and avaricious, which means there are secrets buried deep within Alpha that some would kill to protect. It’s a basic setup, but Besson keeps returning to the idea that greeting a new culture in a spirit of cooperation with a firm handshake is preferable to greeting them in a warlike manner. And yet we keep falling into those old warlike patterns. Why?
There’s good reason that opening scene succeeds so beautifully (as do the sequences immediately following) where the rest of the film struggles. Besson is illustrating his central ideas about openness and collaboration being the way forward for humanity (and whatever other intelligent species might be occupying the Milky Way) without overwhelming the audience with exposition.
But as the film circles closer and closer to its climax, it overexplains everything, to the point where it will depict something happening and then have Valerian summarize exactly what we just saw happen. It’s like the movie loses its nerve a little bit more with every scene.
It doesn’t help that Valerian and Laureline themselves (about which more in the next section) are such unengaging conduits through which to view this particular story. Because we’re just getting to know them, the idea that they might realize the interplanetary law enforcement agency they work for has done very bad things doesn’t shake us as much as it might. In short, they’re less the people driving the story and more the people along for the ride.
But you should still see this movie if you have any affection for big, bold science fiction at all.
The best thing about Valerian is that it’s chock-full of stuff, much of which is taken from the comics. (My favorites: three little birdlike creatures who love knowledge and capitalism and pop up at odd times to offer Valerian and Laureline what intelligence they’ve managed to glean from every corner of Alpha.) Every frame of the movie feels like a junior high doodle page where the artist has found a little space for a new monster design right over here.
It reminded me of big world-building movies where the directors knew their stories were a little thin, so they just kept tossing more things up onscreen. Think, for instance, of Peter Jackson’s Hobbit trilogy, or James Cameron’s Avatar. Or think even of the Star Wars prequels, which had a dreadfully bland story about intergalactic politics (that strained for a kind of complexity it couldn’t quite achieve), but also some fun creature designs and special effects scattered throughout almost every scene.
Valerian is better, on the whole, than most of the movies above. (I’d probably give Avatar the edge.) But it has a similar issue with trying to stretch too little story over too long a running time. It wants to be a boldly political tale of diplomacy winning the day — but also a high-tech space romp. And while the two halves of its divided heart come close to embracing, they end up a few inches apart, in a climax that ends with the most halfhearted explosion imaginable.
Thus, Valerian and Laureline’s role as tour guides wasn’t as distracting as it could have because I was enjoying just how many crazy concepts Besson could toss onscreen. It’s like his 1997 film The Fifth Element, but cubed and set in an outer space version of Zootopia. The movie will frequently lose track of the story entirely to become the tale of a shape-shifting space blob played by Rihanna who dreams of stardom and worries about her status as an illegal immigrant on board Alpha. And more often than not, my response to this was, “You know what? Why not!”
Still, that’s not going to be the response of everybody, especially with Dane DeHaan and Cara Delevingne as the stars. I’ve liked DeHaan in other things (especially his work on HBO’s In Treatment and in this year’s bafflingly ill-conceived but fascinating A Cure for Wellness), but he keeps getting cast in parts that require a roguish charisma he doesn’t really have. He’s better at playing characters who are unexpectedly and suddenly unraveling — see Amazing Spider-Man 2, in which he’s one of the few good things. But he’s Valerian’s weak link, and he could have sunk the movie.
Fortunately for all of us, though, DeLevingne’s continually odd screen presence wanders in to save the day. I don’t know if I genuinely like DeLevingne as an actress or just enjoy how she often seems to be surprised to have wandered onto a movie set, but her work in Valerian, off-kilter and laced with sarcasm, is my favorite performance from her yet. She reminds me a little of what would have happened if Margot Kidder and Shelley Duvall had somehow combined their respective talents in a lab, and I hope this movie’s inevitable bombing doesn’t kill her career.
Actually, I hope the movie doesn’t bomb (though I can’t imagine it becoming a major hit in the US — it’s too idiosyncratic for that). Films this big and this bold with this obviously big a budget come along so rarely that they’re worth savoring even when they misfire. Besson doesn’t know how to take half measures, a welcome trait in a world increasingly full of cookie-cutter blockbusters. If that means he’s often jetting off into deep space without any real plans to return to Earth, by God, give me the stars.
Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets is playing everywhere. Try convincing your most literal-minded friend to see it with you. It’ll make for a good story.
Following an internet-wide day of protest on July 12, many activists are claiming a victory in the fight to preserve net neutrality against a proposed complete regulatory repeal by the Federal Communications Commission. But was it really a victory? Cynics abound — and the likelihood that the protest made a real impact is low.
Related
The protest, which boasted the participation of high-profile sites like Netflix and Reddit, was a success according to stats from the activist groups that organized it: According to Fight for the Future, the Day of Action for Net Neutrality reportedly reached 10 million people, inspired between 1.6 million and 2.1 million new comments on the FCC’s website, and generated 3.5 million emails to members of Congress urging them to enact legislation on the issue.
Since the FCC first announced its plans to roll back existing net neutrality regulations in April, more than 8.2 million comments on the plans have been submitted to the agency (the first window for public comment remained open through Monday, July 17, and a second round of public comment will now remain open through August 16). Though many of those comments have been disputed by developers and data scientists as the work of spambots impersonating real citizens, with as many as 58,000 of the comments repeating the same anti-Obama, anti-net neutrality text, it’s clear that the continuing work of net neutrality activists, which now includes the Day of Action protest, has driven a high proportion of the (legitimate) response.
But not everyone is impressed, and possibly for good reason. In the aftermath of the protest and what some have written off as only mild, non-visible participation from its most prominent participants, many people have expressed skepticism over whether it effectively conveyed what’s at stake — or the tremendous effect that a rollback of net neutrality regulations could have on the future of the web — if the FCC’s plans come to pass.
Prior to the July 12 protest, news outlets were warning their readers to “prepare to be assaulted” by the extent of the protest, after major players like Google, Facebook, Netflix, and Amazon announced their participation in the Day of Action.
But as many of those same news outlets have since pointed out, the aforementioned major players barely did anything to promote the protest where it counted: on their most visible and highly trafficked homepages and within their mobile apps.
“If you blinked, you missed yesterday’s net neutrality protest,” Recode declared, while Politico hedged that it “may have flown under some radars.”
The Verge’s rundown of how different websites contributed to the Day of Action revealed that many of the most prominent participants had done little more than post out-of-the-way statements about net neutrality on their blogs or add small banners to their homepages that could easily be ignored.
The Ringer was especially blunt, taking participants to task for being “afraid to disrupt the user experience to incite political action.” Writer Victor Luckerson recalled bolder, more attention-getting net neutrality protests of the past, during which entire websites went dark or deliberately interfered with their own pages to make points about slow load times and the impact lack of net neutrality could have on a user’s experience of the internet.
Protests in support of net neutrality have occurred almost semiannually since 2010, with major events taking place in 2012 and 2014 to comment on pending regulations. The 2012 net neutrality blackout, which successfully campaigned against the restrictive Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA), was particularly notable because major websites like Wikipedia, Reddit, Tumblr, and Google went dark or displayed prominent site interruptions for the full day. These stances were dramatic — especially compared with the mild, unintrusive efforts made during the July 12 protest.
Though some sites did turn to creative alternative ways of illustrating the point — as seen in the below tweet from Netflix — Luckerson argued that such passive, easy-to-scroll-past commentary is disappointing.
This GIF will buffer until #NetNeutrality is safe. @Stranger_Things pic.twitter.com/elSWlOUklr
“Such timidity is unfortunate right now,” he wrote, “given that net neutrality is already struggling to compete for attention with health care, Russian election interference, and a variety of other controversies in Washington”:
Perhaps tech giants don’t want to be accused of “playing politics” in these divisive times by passionately speaking out against a Trump appointee’s plan. But my hunch is that many of them have simply outgrown the need for net neutrality’s protections, so they’re comfortable paying lip service to the concept without getting particularly invested in the fight.
Luckerson also pointed to a statement that Netflix CEO Reed Hastings made in May in which he admitted that Netflix no longer needed to worry about net neutrality rules. That is, the company believes it doesn’t have to worry about losing a critical mass of subscribers due to the inability of those lost subscribers to afford faster internet speeds — a hindrance that would almost certainly be imposed upon millions of people by their ISPs if net neutrality regulations are gutted under the FCC’s proposed plans.
Luckerson posited that Hastings’s statement probably reflects the reigning view among Silicon Valley’s major players toward the issue of net neutrality in general: that they don’t want to waste resources lobbying a government that’s determined to roll back existing regulations, especially because they aren’t too concerned that their users won’t simply adjust to any resulting setbacks.
However, anyone who doesn’t view net neutrality as a big deal is failing to consider just how unequal bandwidth access in the US already is, and how crucial a role steady internet access plays in bridging socioeconomic gaps. Scaling back net neutrality regulations may not be as immediately visible a disenfranchisement of poor and marginalized citizens as, say, repealing the Affordable Care Act, but the potential societal effects are real. “It’s ironic that the companies creating the tools to amplify political voices aren’t doing more to ensure those voices will be protected in the future,” Luckerson wrote.
Alongside cynicism about Silicon Valley’s investment in protecting net neutrality is cynicism about the FCC’s response to the Day of Action protest. “Today’s net neutrality protest won’t matter to the FCC,” Axios reported, noting that FCC Chair Ajit Pai has been unflinching in his desire to repeal current net neutrality rules, and with partisan support in favor of doing so, protests from the tech industry aren’t likely to do much good.
Still, some momentum is building both among lawmaking Republicans and tech insiders for the idea of congressional legislation that would enshrine net neutrality into law. The FCC regulation that’s currently under threat protects net neutrality through a decades-old regulatory clause known as Title II, which classifies ISPs as telecommunications companies, subject to telecommunication company regulation. If Pai repeals Title II classification for ISPs, they will essentially be unregulated. The potential upside of passing a net neutrality law through Congress instead of relying on FCC regulation is that it could use specific modernized language that explicitly safeguards net neutrality as a governing principle, and would be harder to undo.
Such an approach is not without major drawbacks. Sen. Al Franken recently argued that “any legislation that we would get in the current Congress would be weaker than the Open Internet order that's in effect now.” And the main reason for this is that major internet service providers like Comcast, Verizon, and AT&T could easily lobby Congress to ensure that any new net neutrality laws are as favorable to their corporate goals as possible, effectively killing the “neutrality” component.
ISPs’ to meddle in the fight for net neutrality should not be ignored. In fact, two ISPs actually pretended to join the July 12 protest in order to actively undermine it. AT&T received ridicule for its “attempt to hijack” the protest by claiming to join it, which it did by posting a deceptive and confusing page on its website that subtly argued against the principles of net neutrality and urged visitors to join AT&T in arguing for Congress, not the FCC, to legislate the issue — an outcome that could only serve to benefit AT&T, not the open internet.
Comcast, meanwhile, stated that it “supports net neutrality” with a lengthy blog post in which it claimed net neutrality activists are utilizing “scare tactics” and trying to “create hysteria.” Comcast argued that “Title II regulation and net neutrality are not the same thing.” But Title II regulation is the regulation under which net neutrality is currently enforced, and the only existing way for net neutrality to legally be enforced, so an argument that they aren’t the same thing seems purposely misleading.
In reality, undoing net neutrality regulations opens the door to serious exploitation of consumers by ISPs, which would essentially be able to run the internet side of their businesses with little to no government oversight or accountability. And the changes would come at a time when a major repeal of internet privacy laws has already emboldened ISPs to sell their customers’ internet history, browsing data, and personal information. If anything, there isn’t nearly enough alarm over the proposed changes at stake — which is why cynics have been so disappointed with the lack of visible agitation surrounding the issue.
Under the Trump administration, chances of salvaging net neutrality are slim — though Franken did speculate that the issue could end up in federal court if/when the FCC completes its proposed repeal of existing regulations.
Still, activists are optimistic. Elliot Harmon, an activist with the Electronic Frontiers Foundation, which participated in the July 12 Day of Action, told me the overall results of the protest were a net gain:
“In many ways, this day of action was bigger than the Internet Slowdown Day in 2014,” he said. “It generated more comments to the FCC, and it brought in a more inclusive and diverse range of voices. This wasn't a few companies; it was all corners of the internet coming together.”
He urged net neutrality supporters not to give up, stating that “this is a marathon, not a sprint.”
However, while noting that it’s important for people to keep contacting their congressional representatives about protecting net neutrality, he also acknowledged that the ball is in the FCC’s court: “What we do next will depend on the FCC's decision,” he said.
But since Pai seems determined to gut the FCC’s current regulations no matter how many members of the public make their voices heard in favor of net neutrality, the next step might be to start adjusting to a slower, weaker, more unequal internet.
Mad Men, whose first episode aired 10 years ago today, held far more influence over the rest of television when it was on the air than after it left the air.
Think about how few obvious Mad Men clones you’ve seen since the AMC drama ended in 2015. There was a whole spate of sexy ’60s-set dramas in the early 2010s — your Pan Ams (which was kinda entertaining) and your Playboy Clubs (which was not) and even your Magic Citys (which was a TV show). But they all quickly failed, never recapturing whatever magic kept Mad Men on the air for seven seasons and won the show so many Emmys. (In purely mercenary terms, that magic was, “AMC was hell-bent on rebuilding itself into a home for fans of great TV and didn’t mind weathering low ratings for a while.”)
Related
Thus, Mad Men feels less like the start of something now and more like a TV dead end, whereas the influence of its contemporaneous AMC cousin Breaking Bad is apparent all over the schedule, in ways both large and small. We don’t currently live in a world of small, perfectly hewn moments of interpersonal drama, the type favored by Mad Men and its most obvious predecessor, The Sopranos; we live in a world of big, sweeping stories, with slow builds to climaxes drenched in fire and fury.
But I’m ready for a Mad Men renaissance. The elements of Mad Men that other shows have copied — the ’60s setting and the period clothes and sets — are some of the least interesting, most surface-level things about it. But it has so much more to offer its would-be heirs.
Here are three elements of the series I wish today’s television — and I mean literally any show in any setting — would rip off from one of my favorite shows ever.
AMC
Most TV shows — even the really great ones — are structured as stories about a long chain of actions and equal but opposite reactions. Character is revealed by how characters react to adversity, how they push back against the forces trying to stop them, whether those are human or otherwise. We get to know Jon Snow on Game of Thrones by how he balances his duties on the Night’s Watch with his need to stop the White Walkers.
There’s nothing wrong with this approach, but Mad Men, though it had its plottier moments, told stories in an inverted fashion. Episodes were often less about “what happens next” and more about “why did that happen?” The characters were presented as mysteries even to themselves, and Mad Men plots typically revolve around the characters’ emotional reactions to situations out of their control. Character isn’t revealed through plot. Plot is revealed through character.
For a classic example, consider the season one episode “Red in the Face.” Don Draper invites his colleague Roger over for dinner, and Roger hits on Don’s wife, Betty. The next day, Don pays an elevator operator to say the elevator’s broken, forcing the men to climb many flights of stairs after a long, boozy lunch with some clients. When they reach the top, Roger throws up in front of the clients, and Don’s revenge is complete.
The way I tell this story makes it sound heavily plotted, like Don is constantly scheming to undermine Roger after Roger hits on Betty. But Mad Men presents the situation almost as a mystery, where you don’t entirely know what Don is up to until the final shot of the episode. The best Mad Men episodes linger on a character’s face and invite you to wonder what the person is thinking or feeling. They’re about the way emotions ripple outward and bump into other people.
While some current dramas follow this basic structure — Halt and Catch Fire and The Handmaid’s Tale come to mind — the majority of TV shows that operate within it are half-hour comedy-drama hybrids, like Girls and Transparent and Atlanta. But for as much as I like those shows, I loved Mad Men’s more ruminative drama, and I’d love to see it come back in a big way.
AMC
A season of Mad Men was a puzzle that assembled itself before our eyes, and where every piece mattered.
The show was heavily episodic, in that every episode was a careful gem of a short story, but each season was constructed so that its short stories collapsed in on each other by the end, in a way the audience could rarely predict. Characters would seem to be trapped in destructive cycles until they weren’t, and Don would always find some new way to reinvent himself, only to realize how unhappy he was all over again.
In our current age of binge watching, this kind of structure has been almost completely lost (or, again, shunted off to comedies; Netflix’s BoJack Horseman uses almost exactly the approach described above). There are so many dramas on right now, even dramas I really like, where I couldn’t quite tell you what happened in any given episode, or even any given season, because they’re constructed to simply keep extending their story into the sky.
But there are so many Mad Men episodes that stand alone, and if you’re a Mad Men fan, I’ll bet just saying the names “The Suitcase” or “Shut the Door, Have a Seat” or “Signal 30” will inspire pangs of nostalgia (which is, of course, the pain from an old wound).
We’ve come to think of the basic unit of TV storytelling as the season, but it’s very, very difficult for most TV shows to concentrate only on telling one big serialized story and make it satisfying. Mad Men proves how much room there is within the short-story show, where each piece is beautiful unto itself, but they’re even more beautiful once you see how it contributes to the full picture.
AMC
People don’t really think of Mad Men as a mystery show, but consider one of its most iconic shots: Don, having called an elevator, pauses after the door opens, because he realizes the elevator never came up to his floor. He’s staring into a dark void, and if he had stepped into the elevator without realizing as much, he surely would have fallen to his death. Every episode of Mad Men begins with a man falling, falling, then landing safely in his seat, in command of his universe. The void is always waiting to swallow us whole, and we keep trying to fill it, in order to establish an illusion of control.
Mad Men is far from a religious show — a couple of the characters practice religion, but nobody is deeply faithful — but it’s about that most fundamental religious and philosophical question of them all. When your needs are met, when you have what you think or say you want, why do you still feel so empty inside? Everything the characters on Mad Men used to fill the void ended up being a panacea.
That allowed the series to introduce mystery and uncertainty around its edges, without becoming a mystery show outright. Mad Men traded in the same kinds of mystery and ambiguity that greet us in everyday life, where we don’t always know the motivations of those around us, and sometimes don’t even understand our own motivations. The characters did things, without being conscious of why they were doing them, as they grasped for answers they wouldn’t find.
In this sense, Mad Men avoided having its audience clamor for answers to its mysteries, because viewers understood that the mysteries Don and Peggy and Pete were facing were the same mysteries we all face, every single day. And yet the show was joyous and funny and deeply human, perhaps because it was willing to embrace the void, the piece of all of ourselves that will always be missing, no matter how skillfully we lie to ourselves that we’ve completed the whole.
Mad Men was an existential series, but not unapproachably so, thanks to its ’60s facade. (Maybe that’s the lesson of the ’60s stuff — if you’re going to make a TV show about the existential mysteries at the heart of humanity, be sure to give it a glossy surface.) It was about looking at someone and wondering what they were thinking and feeling, about the moment when you find yourself in the sky, among the clouds, and wonder if you’re soaring or falling.
The Ladies Professional Golf Association is telling players to either start covering up or get ready to pay up with its updated dress code.
The tighter rules went into effect on Monday, tamping down on recent, less traditional athletic wear trends that have popped up on the courses, including racerback tank tops, leggings, joggers, “plunging necklines,” and players’ “bottom area.” Players who do not adhere to the new code will face penalties of $1,000 for the first offense and “it will double with each offense,” according to an email sent to players by LPGA player president Vicki Goetze-Ackerman and acquired by Golf Digest’s Ashley Mayo.
Players were first notified of the new policy on July 2, and it was set to go into effect during the 2017 Marathon Classic in Toledo, Ohio. Mayo published the email featuring the eight-item list of clothing and styles that will no longer be tolerated on the tour last week. The new restrictions say:
Racerback with a mock or regular collar are allowed (no collar = no racerback)
Plunging necklines are NOT allowed.
Leggings, unless under a skort or shorts, are NOT allowed
Length of skirt, skort, and shorts MUST be long enough to not see your bottom area (even if covered by under shorts) at any time, standing or bent over.
Appropriate attire should be worn to pro-am parties. You should be dressing yourself to present a professional image. Unless otherwise told “no,” golf clothes are acceptable. Dressy jeans are allowed, but cut-offs or jeans with holes are NOT allowed.
Workout gear and jeans (all colors) NOT allowed inside the ropes
Joggers are NOT allowed
In addition to sharing the new dress code and recourse for violations, Goetze-Ackerman told players that they are “responsible for letting their sponsors know about the new policy.” This is particularly important for players who have clothing sponsorships, which can be so influential that the color and design of their outfits are planned ahead of time for maximum marketing opportunity.
Representatives from the LPGA confirmed that the policy changes had been a topic of discussion for a while, and weren’t the result of a top-down crackdown but were put forth by players.
“While we typically evaluate our policies at the end of the year, based on input from our players, we recently made some minor adjustments to the policy to address some changing fashion trends,” Heather Daly-Donofrio, LPGA's chief communications and tour operations officer, told Golf Digest in a statement.
Still, some of the email’s language is raising questions about whether the LPGA is policing women’s bodies, as does the mixed response from current and former LPGA players.
The email was published around the US Women’s Open, giving pro golfers the chance to respond and revealing how divided players are over the new regulations.
“The only point I agree with is that there should not be low-cut tops, but I've never really seen that be an issue,” Sandra Gal, an LPGA player who has worn less conservative styles on the course, told Golf.com’s Alan Shipnuck. “Our main objective is clear: play good golf. But part of being a woman, and especially a female-athlete, is looking attractive and sporty and fit, and that's what women's tennis does so well. Why shouldn't we?”
Christina Kim, another LPGA player known for bringing some flair to her own outfits, felt different. “I may sound like an old fuddy-duddy, but this is our place of business and I think players should look professional. Do you really need ventilation for your side-boob?”
In a blog post for the Guardian, former LPGA pro Anya Alvarez discusses her own experiences with trying to follow the uniform guidelines as an athlete with “strong legs and a behind that make clothes look different on me than someone who is tall and slender.” Alvarez attributes part of the modern attire shift to players passing on regulation golf skorts that they say are too long. Instead, Alvarez says she opted for tennis skorts, which are “shorter than their golf counterparts” but fit better.
While Alvarez says the new rules “read like they were written for a middle schooler,” she doesn’t find the dress code “outrageous.” Instead, she wonders how the LPGA plans to enforce its policy. “What is a ‘plunging neckline’ anyway?” she writes. “Will there be an official handy with a tape measure to quantify the exact degree of plunge? What is the scientific definition of the ‘bottom area?’ Do they have a expert for that?”
While it’s currently unclear how strictly the LPGA plans to enforce its new dress code policy, it is clear that this is not the first nor will it be the last instance of dress code tension for women in sports. Meanwhile, golf’s overall evolving style — from the introduction of brighter colors and floral prints to Nike’s collarless polos and PGA tour winner Rickie Fowler’s joggers and high-tops — seemed to indicate the sport was getting a little less stuffy. But with the LPGA’s new guidelines, perhaps the dress code policy will remain par for the course with the sport’s historically conservative attitudes.
If there was any hope that Bachelor in Paradise might take a serious approach to addressing the sexual assault allegations that temporarily halted production of its upcoming fourth season, a jaw-dropping new promo just extinguished it.
At first, the ad — which Jezebel points out aired on ABC during Monday’s episode of The Bachelorette — paints a startling picture: “The sun had almost set. Summer was almost ruined,” a grave voiceover intones over dramatic shots of a stormy beach, a crab tumbling out of a margarita glass, and quotes from tweets by despondent viewers. “Paradise was almost lost — until it wasn’t!”
Then the music changes from dire to delighted, and the screen immediately floods with sunshine, ecstatic tweets, and jaunty lizards. “On Monday, August 14,” the voiceover concludes triumphantly, “Paradise is found!”
Ever since Warner Bros. (the show’s production studio) concluded its investigation into allegations of a sexual assault that reportedly took place during a drunken blackout on the Bachelor in Paradise set — though not before sparking an avalanche of criticism and reports of longstanding problematic behavior on the production — Bachelor in Paradise has promised to deal with the incident with all the sensitivity in the world.
But if a viewer saw only this trailer, drunken crab and all, they would probably come away thinking that Bachelor in Paradise just experienced a brief hiccup. Nowhere does this promo demonstrate that anyone involved in the show understands the gravity of the season being shut down to investigate claims of sexual assault, or the complex questions that subsequently arose about producer responsibility and drunken drama as a reality show staple.
I don’t envy the marketing team that had to figure out how to package Bachelor in Paradise’s fourth season. But I don’t think glossing over the messy realities of what unfolded was quite the way to do it. In fact, it only confirms the suspicions held by many that Bachelor in Paradise and other reality shows like it don’t understand the seriousness of claims like the ones that shut down the set in the first place, nor do they care to if they can simply weather any controversy and move on.
From the looks of what the ABC marketing department is trying to sell viewers, sticking your head in the sand is a pretty soothing alternative to dealing with problems directly — especially if that sand happens to be in Paradise.
One of the recurring themes in BuzzFeed’s disturbing report about R. Kelly’s alleged abusive sex “cult” is that the parents of Kelly’s alleged victims trusted Kelly with their daughters.
They trusted Kelly even though it’s widely believed among people in the music industry that Kelly is a serial predator who targets young women. They trusted him even though he’s been sued several times for statutory rape and was tried on child pornography charges in 2008. (Kelly has never faced criminal rape charges.)
Related
And why wouldn’t they trust him? Kelly is an icon who continues to perform and release music without controversy. He has never been found guilty in a court of law.
“My thing was I trusted. I have never been in the music industry before, ever,” one mother told BuzzFeed. “He is a lyrical genius — he is R. Kelly! And the fact is he went to court, he was never found guilty — he was acquitted — and we were led to believe there was no truth in it. Now I got all of these people asking about why my daughter is [associating with him], telling me, ‘All of that, the charges against Kelly, was true.’ Well, how come you didn’t tell me that before?”
“Even with the Aaliyah situation, now that I think about it, ‘Age Ain’t Nothing But a Number’...” said another mother — referring to the song that a 27-year-old Kelly produced with 15-year-old Aaliyah shortly before he married her in 1994, using a falsified marriage certificate that claimed Aaliyah was 18 — “you don’t think about that. You grew up with the song, and you like the song.”
That sentiment, and the story of R. Kelly’s career to date, sums up the cultural response to all of the allegations that have been brought against Kelly over the years. There’s a hazy sense that it all happened a long time ago, and that none of it was true, and anyway it can’t possibly have mattered too much. After all, Kelly’s career has been largely unaffected. He still charts on Billboard. He still wins awards. Critics still like his music.
What the R. Kelly story shows is that the way we treat predators matters. It’s important that we as a culture punish them, not just for the sake of punishing a predator, but in order to protect future victims. When we celebrate predators and hold them up for general admiration — as we did with Kelly, and as we continue to do with Bill Cosby and Roman Polanski and Woody Allen and Johnny Depp and Casey Affleck and dozens of other famous men — we teach the predators that they can continue to act with impunity and even escalate their behavior.
We also fail to give victims adequate warning signs. We make the predators seem trustworthy. We become complicit in their abuse.
R. Kelly’s pattern of preying on young girls has been public knowledge since 1994, when he illegally married 15-year-old Aaliyah (though Kelly has never publicly confirmed the marriage, GQ explains, it “has never been credibly challenged,” and the marriage certificate has been published).
As chronicled by music journalist and former Chicago Sun-Times reporter Jim DeRogatis, who’s been covering Kelly for nearly two decades and broke the cult story for BuzzFeed, Kelly wasn’t only 12 years older than Aaliyah: He was also in a significant additional position of power over her.
Aaliyah was the niece of Kelly’s manager, and Kelly wrote and produced her debut album. Aaliyah was considered Kelly’s protégé. He controlled her career. He wrote a song for her to sing about how completely normal and not-creepy their relationship was.
The marriage was rapidly annulled, and Aaliyah’s family insists that Aaliyah and Kelly never spoke again, but her mother allegedly told DeRogatis that Kelly ruined Aaliyah’s life.
In 2000, DeRogatis began reporting on Kelly’s pattern of initiating abusive sexual relationships with teenage girls. In 2002, a videotape in which he engages in sex acts with and urinates on a young girl who was allegedly 14 years old circulated widely across the internet.
The reports had little effect on Kelly’s career. He denied everything, and wrote and released a series of songs about how God will forgive him, like the single “Heaven, I Need a Hug,” in which he instructs the media to “do your job / But please just don’t make my job so hard” and plaintively asks, “Heaven, I need a hug / Is there anybody out there willin’ to embrace a thug?”
He continued performing to wide acclaim, often with fellow artists like Jay-Z. He won award after award and was nominated for multiple Grammys; his songs kept charting on Billboard.
After years of delays, Kelly was tried on child pornography charges in 2008, the result of the 2002 videotape, and found not guilty. He kept performing. When people wrote about his history, they typically alluded vaguely to a “controversial past” and “rumors and allegations.” Sometimes they made jokes about the idea that he likes to pee on people (funny and mildly embarrassing if performed between consenting adults), but rarely about the idea that he likes to pee on underaged people (illegal and monstrous). He was doing fine.
Again: People have known about R. Kelly’s predatory patterns since 1994. But after every shocking new allegation, the news stories tend to fade away a bit. People stop talking about them. They lose interest — and in the meantime, Kelly keeps creating music and keeps being applauded for it.
So you would have to dig a bit to know what the allegations against Kelly really look like. You would have to go looking to know that there’s good reason to suspect he committed the crimes of which he has been accused. You would have to be the kind of person who reads feminist pop culture criticism, and then criticism of that criticism, because by 2013 even sites like Jezebel were enjoying some R. Kelly slow jams.
If you didn’t dig and if you weren’t that kind of obsessive reader — if you just relied on pop culture osmosis — you’d have a general idea that there was something unsavory in his past, but that was all a long time ago. He’s a good guy now. He’d have to be, or why else would he be so widely admired and have such a successful career?
That’s what the mothers of Kelly’s current alleged victims thought. And that’s why he was allegedly able to target their daughters.
As a society, we have established a predatory pattern of our own. When powerful men are accused of hurting women, we tend to want to make the accusation go away as quickly as possible. So we ignore them. We accuse the women of lying, or we say that something happened too long ago for anyone to know or remember the details, or we say that the man appears to be genuinely remorseful so why bring up old unpleasantness?
We give the men awards. We buy the art they make. We give them plenty of opportunities to make new art. We do not send them to jail. We hold them up as powerful and important men worth admiring and respecting.
It’s what we did with Woody Allen and Roman Polanski, and Johnny Depp and Mel Gibson and Casey Affleck. It’s what we did with Bill Cosby just this June, when a jury was unable to convict him of rape, despite the fact that he said he gave women drugs and then had sex with them: Cosby’s pervasive image as America’s favorite dad seems to have outweighed all of the evidence arrayed against him, including his own testimony.
And it’s what we’ve done year after year with R. Kelly, since 1994.
I’ve written before about how damaging and toxic this pattern is, but I’ve tended to focus on how unjust it is that men can get away with hurting women with such impunity and still be revered and adored.
And certainly, that seems true of Kelly.
“Kelly seems to live in some kind of strange celebrity half-shadow where his dazzling musical legacy is tainted and his company is not always welcome,” Chris Heath wrote for GQ in 2016, after spending several hours with the musician to conduct a frank, wide-ranging interview. During their conversation, Kelly addressed many of the allegations that have been brought against him over the years, in sometimes strange, sometimes evasive ways.
“But he is also correct in observing that, within his bubble, a different reality exists,” Heath continued. “One in which he still gets plenty of invitations and approval, his records still sell, and the crowds still turn up. I can think of no plausible reason for some of the answers he has given me over the past three days, other than that he's shielding himself from some unpalatable guilty truths. But he seems oblivious to this, perhaps because his life gives him no particular reason to confront them. I wonder whether he's been around so many people for so long who either pretend to believe him, or who simply don't care, that he's learned to take that as evidence of his own innocence.”
But what the newest allegations against Kelly show is that this pattern isn’t just unjust — it’s actively dangerous.
If Kelly is guilty of so many terrible things, many people might rationally think, how is it possible that he hasn’t been punished? How is it possible that he is still making music and winning awards and being held up as a legend? If so many people in the music industry are convinced that he’s guilty, why is he still such a major figure?
It seems that in ignoring the charges against Kelly, we have not only signaled to Kelly himself that his behavior is acceptable or at the very least forgivable, but also created an atmosphere in which young women feel safe with him, and in which mothers have felt safe leaving their daughters with him. It suggests that if Kelly wanted to continue in his alleged patterns and escalate his behavior, it would be easy for him to do so.
If the BuzzFeed report is true, he has been eager and able to do so. And that is in part because we made it easy for him.
Even if you’ve read The Disaster Artist, Greg Sestero’s surreal account of the filming of Tommy Wiseau’s terrible cult hit The Room, your wildest imaginings probably can’t capture what the set must have been like.
That’s why the new teaser for the upcoming film The Disaster Artist (in case you’re losing track, that’s the film of the book about filming the film The Room) is both disconcerting and brilliant. Against a green screen, Wiseau, as played by James Franco, opens a door and barges onto a rooftop set, then stands there awkwardly, without saying anything.
It’s simultaneously a perfect simulacrum of The Room and a jarring introduction to that hilariously uncomfortable set environment. The teaser proceeds through Wiseau’s attempts to deliver what is perhaps the Room’s most well-known line: “I did not hit her, it’s not true, it’s bullshit, I did not hit her, I did not. Oh, hi, Mark!” Franco’s body language and mannerisms as the nebulously European Wiseau are eerily on point as he flubs the bizarre line again and again, and the scenario quickly ramps up to sheer absurdity.
It’s an excellent introduction to The Room, a film that has become a spoon-tossing mainstay of midnight cinema around the country ever since its 2003 release. The set recreation, and Franco’s Wiseau in particular, is pure comedy gold for fans of the cult hit — and for fans of filmmaking in general.
Related
The Disaster Artist is also directed by Franco, who may or may not have been channeling Wiseau’s direction himself the whole time. Distributor A24 is apparently confident enough in the results to let the “Oh, hi, Mark!” scene stand on its own as the only teaser we need. It’s a great call, and cynics who don’t believe Franco could do the great Wiseau justice will be left keeping their stupid comments in their pocket.
The Disaster Artist will be released on December 1, and hopefully will run forever.
Every weekend, we pick a movie you can stream that dovetails with current events. Old, new, blockbuster, arthouse: They’re all fair game. What you can count on is a weekend watch that sheds new light on the week that was. The movie of the week for July 16 through 22 is Sense and Sensibility (1995), which is available to digitally rent on YouTube, Amazon, Vudu, iTunes, and Google Play.
Jane Austen died 200 years ago, on July 18, 1817. She left behind six major novels, some unfinished works, and notebooks of stories she wrote in her youth, and has long inspired scholars, writers, filmmakers, playwrights, and hordes of undying fans.
Every Austen devotee has their favorite film adaptation, the one they will defend against all others. The picks range wildly, from more conventional and relatively faithful costume dramas like the 1995 Pride and Prejudice miniseries to the looser adaptations, which include Clueless (based on Emma), Metropolitan (based on Mansfield Park), Bridget Jones’s Diary (based on Pride and Prejudice, very loosely indeed), and Bride and Prejudice (a Bollywood version of Pride and Prejudice).
My personal favorite, though, is the 1995 version of Sense and Sensibility. Ang Lee may have directed the film, but most fans agree that it owes its brilliance to Emma Thompson, who wrote the film and stars in it too, alongside Kate Winslet, Hugh Grant, and Alan Rickman.
Thompson worked on the screenplay — her first — on and off for five years. What she crafted is faithful to Austen’s novel both in spirit and in plot, telling the story of the Dashwood family, which is plunged into genteel poverty when Mr. Dashwood (Tom Wilkinson) dies. He leaves behind his well-meaning but coddled wife (Gemma Jones) and three unmarried daughters: Elinor (Thompson), Marianne (Winslet), and teenaged Margaret (Emilie François).
The late Mr. Dashwood has a son from his first marriage, John (James Fleet), who is inclined to help his half-sisters, but John’s wife Fanny (Harriet Walter) is having none of it, and the Dashwood women are sent off to live in a country cottage situated on a more distant relative’s estate. There, the free-spirited Marianne attracts the attention of both the steady Colonel Brandon (Rickman) and the more dashing — and dangerous — Willoughby (Greg Wise). Meanwhile, Elinor pines quietly for Edward Ferrars (Grant), the awkward but adorable brother of Fanny.
What makes Sense and Sensibility so great is that it doesn’t just step through the paces of the plot as outlined by Austen. It feels more like Thompson got in the author’s head, pulling out the tones and feelings of the novel while also making something that works well onscreen in 1995 (and in 2017) even if you’ve never read the source material. The book is wonderful, but the film (with Lee at the helm as director) captures all the sexiness and wildness that really only exists between the lines of a novel published in 1811.
Elinor and Marianne represent the two ideas in the title: Elinor is all sense and responsibility, while Marianne is a swirling bundle of romance and passion. Their dramatic change in circumstances — which Thompson’s script exaggerates slightly, to help modern audiences understand it — doesn’t diminish their leanings. (And even a country cottage in England looks like very nice house to our eyes.) If anything, it exaggerates them. Elinor must now be more responsible, with her father gone and her mother mostly useless; Marianne’s imagination has much more space to run wild.
And yet sense and sensibility are really two sides of the same coin, a kind of yin and yang that have to interact for people to ever experience true happiness. Marianne must learn some sense to recognize her true love. And Elinor must succumb, just a little, to impractical passion to find her own. (Who could forget Thompson’s gasps of joy when her greatest hopes come to fruition?)
The result is a comedy, a romance, a satirical costume drama, and even, at times, a thriller, stirring and swoony enough to satisfy most anyone — and to win Thompson an Oscar for Best Adapted Screenplay. One can only assume Jane Austen would approve.
Watch the trailer for Sense and Sensibility:
On July 18, 1817, Jane Austen died of an unknown illness in Winchester, England. She left behind her assorted juvenilia, an unfinished manuscript fragment, and six of the greatest novels in the English language — along with teasingly little information on how she thought about and saw the world.
Many of Austen’s letters and personal papers were burned after her death, and her family’s description of her as an unprepossessing but nice lady can be hard to square with the wicked sense of humor lacing her books. So for the past 200 years, critics have attempted to piece together an idea of who Jane Austen was and what her politics were like, all the while grappling with the difficulty of doing so when we have minimal biographical information about her and when her books appear so firmly focused on the domestic.
That absence is the void around which two new books on Jane Austen, just released in honor of the 200th anniversary of her death, revolve. Helena Kelly’s treatise Jane Austen, the Secret Radical determinedly if haphazardly attempts to decode Austen’s novels in order to demonstrate that they contain radically progressive secret messages. And Devoney Looser’s The Making of Jane Austen is a lucid and thorough account of the history of various Jane Austens that different eras and readers have constructed to support their own particular agendas.
Of the two books, Kelly’s is more literary and Looser’s more scholarly. There are pluses and minuses in both directions. Kelly’s breathless vehemence means her argument is always throbbing with righteous indignation, but it’s also not always a particularly rigorous or convincing argument. Looser’s early chapters have a tendency to feel dutiful and plodding, but her argument is nuanced and subtle. Kelly’s book is a lot more fun to read, if occasionally infuriating, but Looser’s is much more convincing.
In Jane Austen, the Secret Radical, Helena Kelly refers to Jane Austen only as Jane; they are on a first-name basis, you see. (This causes some awkwardness when Kelly reaches Pride and Prejudice and has to refer to Jane Bennet as “Miss Bennet” to avoid confusion.) She opens every chapter with a biographical sketch from Austen’s point of view, each one so nicely written that I found myself wishing Kelly had written a novel about Austen’s life rather than a treatise. (Kelly’s prose is vivid and compelling, and giving some of her wilder claims the fig leaf of fiction would make everything a lot more bearable.) Over and over again, she attempts to make the claim that she has somehow mystically communed with Austen, and that she and she alone understands what was going on inside Austen’s mysterious, bonneted, long-dead head.
Rating
“If you want to stay with the novels and the Jane Austen you already know, you should stop reading now,” she announces at the end of her introduction. “If you want to read Jane as she wanted to be read — if you want to know her — then read on.”
The Jane Austen whom Kelly constructs is one who was radically progressive. But rather than taking the easy way out by explicitly discussing politics in her novels, Kelly posits, Austen buried her politics in deeply hidden codes. Luckily, Kelly is there to save the day.
Kelly’s methodology does not always bear close examination. In one chapter, she points out that a minor character in Mansfield Park gets into an argument with the vicar over a Moor Park apricot tree: vicar as in the Church of England, Moor Park as in Moor, as in African. Taken with the fact that in that novel’s climax, Fanny Price wears both a cross (for the church!) and a gold chain (for slavery!), can we doubt that Austen intended for Mansfield Park to be read as a deep condemnation of the Church of England’s use of slavery? “The references, large and small,” Kelly writes darkly, “are everywhere.”
Well, yes, in fact we can doubt that reading. It’s not new to suggest that Mansfield Park is subtextually preoccupied with slavery: Edward Said, whom Kelly does not explicitly cite but in response to whom she appears to be writing, famously and convincingly argued as much. But Said is a careful enough critic to have built his argument around the structure of the novel rather than on the breed of an apricot tree that is mentioned once; Kelly is not able to do the same when she tries to loop the church into her argument. And Said is able to make his argument without spouting any claims about how Austen intended for her book to be read, which is not a feat Kelly ever attempts.
Making claims about authorial intention is a very tricky move that doesn’t offer much reward, especially when the author has been dead for centuries. Barring the unlikely event of the ghost of Jane Austen appearing and proclaiming, “HELENA KELLY WAS RIGHT ABOUT EVERYTHING; I DID INTEND FOR THE CABINET SCENE IN NORTHANGER ABBEY TO BE READ AS A MASTURBATION SCENE,” there is no way to prove or disprove any critic’s opinions about how Austen might have wanted her readers to approach her books.
And in the meantime, is it really all that interesting to worry about how Austen meant her work to be taken? We’ll never meet Austen, but we have her books. You can find all sorts of interesting things in them that she may or may not have meant to put in there, including masturbation scenes if you are so inclined. Why waste so much energy and critical credibility worrying about whether or not we’re supposed to find them there?
It’s doubly disappointing that Kelly is so devoted to the idea that she has found the key to decoding Austen, because when she drops her agenda, she’s a careful and compelling close reader. Tracking the social introductions in Pride and Prejudice, she finds that Darcy and Elizabeth keep refusing to be formally introduced to one another, so that by the time they become engaged they have still never, by the rules of society, met.
“The two of them embark on a relationship,” Kelly argues, “that takes place, almost entirely, outside social norms, one in which all kinds of set ideas and traditional concepts — prejudices — are uprooted.” That’s a thoughtful, well-argued reading that’s genuinely illuminating and interesting. It’s enough to get you fully on board with the whole project of this book and the way Kelly reads Austen.
Then you get to the part where she explains that the reason we never learn Colonel Brandon’s first name in Sense and Sensibility is that it is undoubtedly William, and that if Austen were to reveal this to us, we would realize that his ward Eliza William is in fact his illegitimate daughter. You know what, sure.
Devoney Looser’s The Making of Jane Austen doesn’t make the wild claims that Jane Austen, the Secret Radical does, but you get the impression that Looser would be entertained by Kelly. She’s interested in how different people have reinvented Jane Austen to suit their own purposes over the past 200 years, and she would know exactly how to slot Kelly’s reading into that history.
Rating
Looser traces Austen’s legacy: the Aunt Jane who emerged in the years just after her death; the nice old spinster aunt who happened to write a good yarn; the conservative Divine Jane of literary gentleman’s clubs, who gloried in exalting traditional gender roles and a traditional idea of England; the demure rebel icon of the suffragettes, who definitively demonstrated that women were capable of genius and who tore apart gender roles with her pen; the romantic of the sexy Darcy era, who wrote love stories.
Looser is careful to avoid any claims that are attractive in their sweep but reductive in their implications, like the idea that Jane Austen had a single all-encompassing brand in one decade and another in the next. Sexy Darcy was not an innovation of Colin Firth and his wet shirt in 1996, for example, but a trend that emerged from the theater in the 1930s. Jane the demure rebel and Divine Jane the conservative existed at the same time, in many of the same places — but since literary critics have traditionally paid more attention to literary clubs than to suffragettes, the Divine Jane is the only one who traditionally makes it into critical essays. Looser is out to correct these kinds of omissions in Austen scholarship, and her mission is fundamentally populist.
Her opening chapters, which track the way Austen’s early illustrators depicted the author’s books, make a strong argument that illustrations of the 18th century helped shape readers’ expectations of the novels — amusingly, she quotes some 18th-century cranks grousing at the way certain illustrations “spoiled” Austen for them, in the way that people today sometimes say the 2005 Keira Knightley movie “spoiled” Pride and Prejudice. But she also tracks the biographies of those early illustrators with a scholar’s thoroughness and zest for detail, and while this approach is academically laudable, lay readers are likely to find themselves bored.
More lively and compelling are the book’s later sections, in which Looser delves into the various groups of readers that used Austen as a political symbol, and into the theatrical adaptations that shaped our image of the author in the 20th century. It’s especially interesting for today’s reader, in a time in which Austen is so often dismissed as a writer for sad women with too many cats, to learn that for many years she was widely considered to be a men’s writer. Looser describes a cultural atmosphere in which Austen was held to be “happily inaccessible to the less-discerning, naïve female readers.” Instead, literary men used Austen fandom as a signifier of their developed aesthetic tastes, and liked to muse over which Austen heroine they would most like to marry. (Elizabeth Bennet seems to have generally won that round.)
But in the same moment that literary clubs were claiming Austen as a man’s writer, suffragettes were celebrating her as a female trailblazer. They waved banners with Austen’s name on them; they put on pageants in which “Prejudice,” cowed by the spectacle of Jane Austen and other lady geniuses, slinks off the stage in shame. Suffragette Bertha Brewster published articles on “The Feminism of Jane Austen.”
Crucially, Looser doesn’t make any claims about which group’s Austen is most authentic. She knows she doesn’t have access to the authentic historical Jane Austen, and she doesn’t pretend to try. What she does have access to is the way different people have explicitly stated that they think about Jane Austen over the past 200 years, and that’s what she builds her scholarship on.
If The Making of Jane Austen demonstrates anything, it’s that people have been arguing about Jane Austen for more than two centuries. And if Jane Austen, the Secret Radical demonstrates anything, it’s that they don’t seem likely to stop anytime soon.
Here’s to 200 more years, Miss Austen.
Stephen Colbert kicked off his “Russia Week” in a fitting place: on the set of Evening Urgant, the country’s most popular (and only) late-night show.
All this week, Colbert’s Late Show will air segments that were filmed during the host’s trip to Russia a few weeks ago, including interviews with both dissidents of Vladimir Putin and a blinged-out oligarch. And he kicked off Monday’s episode with his appearance on Evening Urgant, where his intentions were to get a sense of what Russians find funny, preemptively announce his interest in a 2020 presidential run before Russian hackers could scoop him on the joke (at least I think it’s a joke) — and gauge just how far he could push his barbed political humor on a show that’s only on the air because Putin’s state TV allows it.
“I am so honored to be here right now,” Colbert told host Ivan Urgant after settling into the Evening Urgant guest chair. “You’re the No. 1 show here, and this is the state TV, so you’re officially an employee of the state ... and we — what’s the word for it? — colluded that I would be on your show, so I look forward to going back to America and testifying before the Senate Intelligence Committee about colluding with Russians. Thank you for the opportunity.”
As a gesture of goodwill, Urgant brought out a “Russian Russian roulette” game, which centers on a spinning wheel and always ends in a joking toast and a shot of vodka chased with a pickle (i.e., the only game of Russian roulette I’d ever be thrilled to play).
“To the beautiful and friendly Russian people,” Colbert began his first toast, “I don’t understand why no members of the Trump administration can remember meeting you.”
After a huge round of laughter and applause from Urgant’s studio audience, Urgant offered a toast of his own: “I’d like to toast the wonderful country of the United States, which invented the internet,” he said, “thanks to which we can influence the outcome of the presidential elections in the US.”
But the most (accidentally) revealing part of the segment might have come even before Colbert stepped onstage, as he and Urgant talked backstage about how they approach their respective shows. When Colbert asked whether Urgant is comfortable covering politics, the Russian host shrugged that unlike Colbert’s Late Show, the state-sanctioned Evening Urgant only tackles politics “from time to time.” In the end, Urgant said, “we’re more close to Fallon.”
You can watch Colbert’s full appearance on Evening Urgant in the clip embedded above. The Late Show With Stephen Colbert will air a new pretaped segment from the host’s trip to Russia every night this week.
Whenever Jane Austen comes up, her fans immediately feel the impulse to start ranking her novels and arguing over which one is best. It’s a reasonable inclination: There are only six completed Austen books, so you can get comprehensive easily, and arguing over rankings is always fun.
The downside is that because Austen only has six novels, after a while you’ve heard every variation and you know the history of each argument. One person will reasonably say that everyone loves Pride and Prejudice, so that one’s best, and another person will explain that Pride and Prejudice is for basics and real Austen fans love Emma. One person will pop for Persuasion, and another person will counter that Persuasion is so uncharacteristic for Austen that saying it’s your favorite is as good as saying you don’t really like Austen. It’s an argument that’s been happening for a while, with little variation. In the 19th century, the hipster litbro pick was Mansfield Park, but everyone wanted to marry Elizabeth Bennet.
So on the 200th anniversary of Jane Austen’s death, I’d like to propose an alternative to ranking her novels: Let’s make like a high school yearbook and give them superlatives instead. Each of her books does at least one thing perfectly, so let’s pinpoint what that one thing is for each one and celebrate it. Everyone wins.
Northanger Abbey wasn’t published until after Austen died in 1817, but it was the first novel she ever sold to a publisher (in 1803). It’s a little lighter than Austen’s other work, and a little more brittle, with a palpable contempt for most of its characters. Northanger Abbey is fond of silly, flighty Catherine Morland, its heroine, and of patronizing Henry Tilney, its hero, but it isn’t about to let its fondness get in the way of mocking them. And it has so very much fun mocking them that you’d be sad if it stopped.
Sense and Sensibility, the first novel Austen published during her lifetime, is not as good at any one particular thing as many of her novels, but it holds all of her strengths in beautiful balance. Its love stories are not quite as developed as Elizabeth and Darcy in Pride and Prejudice, but its portrait of the sisterly love between Marianne and Elinor is better than the corresponding relationship between Elizabeth and Jane. It’s not as funny as Northanger Abbey, but it has more heart, and it’s not as moving as Persuasion, but it’s funnier. It’s where Austen figures out all the skills she’s about to deploy so skillfully over the course of her career.
This one’s easy. Everyone loves Pride and Prejudice, because it is such a very lovable book, and because it is nearly impossible not to adore the witty and stubborn Elizabeth Bennet as soon as you meet her. “I must confess that I think her as delightful a character as ever appeared in print, and how I shall be able to tolerate those who do not like her at least, I do not know,” Austen wrote to her sister Cassandra. Pride and Prejudice sparkles and bubbles from its iconic first line all the way through to its conclusion, and it dares its readers not to be charmed.
Mansfield Park used to be a popular candidate for Austen’s best novel, but it’s currently going through an unpopular phase. It’s never been a personal favorite of mine: It’s an oddly dark and didactic book, in which the characters who are endowed with that sparkling Austen charm all turn out to be wicked or amoral and the morally upright characters are pinched and humorless. But its portrait of its heroine, Fanny Price, is a stunner. Fanny is a neglected child who latches onto the only person who has ever shown her any affection — her cousin Edmund — and when he withdraws his attention from her, it affects her developing psyche in sad and painful ways. I’ve never loved Mansfield Park, but it’s worth admiring.
Austen famously remarked that Emma Woodhouse was "a heroine whom no one but myself will much like,” but in fact Emma Woodhouse is enormously lovable. That’s because Austen lets you into her head so cleverly: You see all of Emma’s happy self-delusions about how kind and helpful she means to be those around her, and simultaneously you see that she is a snobbish busybody taking out her boredom on everyone in her path. Emma is serenely joyous in her self-aggrandizement, and that makes her a delight. On a purely technical level, it’s a beautifully achieved effect, and some critics have argued that in Emma, Austen more or less invented and perfected the use of the free indirect discourse that the modernists would love so deeply.
Persuasion is also the most melancholy Jane Austen, and the most lyrical, and arguably the most romantic, all of which are perhaps part of why it’s such a beautiful book. If Pride and Prejudice is a sparkling and babbling brook, Persuasion is a quiet pool with still, deep waters. It’s laced with regret and nostalgia, but it’s not as dark as Mansfield Park because at the end it explodes with that triumphant, cathartic love letter Wentworth slips into Anne Elliot’s hands. The claim that it’s uncharacteristic for Austen has some truth to it: It’s not the witty drawing room comedy of manners she’s known for, but rather the thoughtful work of a writer at the height of her powers, beginning to engage with the Romantics writing all around her. It’s an entirely different aesthetic mode than the rest of Austen’s work, but that mode is incredibly beautiful.
Related
When it comes to Jane Austen’s love scenes, there is the letter scene in Persuasion, and then there is everything else.
Persuasion may not have the sparkling charm of Pride and Prejudice or the satirical bite of Emma, but it is Austen’s most deeply felt, melancholy, and beautiful novel. It is the last novel she completed before her death, and it’s written in a different mode than the rest of her books: It’s more lyrical than the rest, and a little sadder and less aggressively witty.
It also has an older heroine. Persuasion’s Anne Elliot is 27 and unmarried, making her by Regency-era standards a spinster — and as we are told in the book’s opening pages that “her bloom had vanished early,” her prospects look dim. She seems doomed to spend her life waiting on her buffoonish, appearance-obsessed father and spendthrift elder (and also unmarried) sister, with perhaps the occasional dubious reprieve in the form of a visit to her married younger sister’s home to look after her nieces and nephews.
Anne was engaged once, to a man named Frederick Wentworth when she was 19, but her well-meaning friends and family convinced her to break off the engagement: Wentworth had no money and few prospects, and everyone was convinced that a pretty and wealthy young heiress like Anne could do better. Eight years later, Wentworth has joined the navy and made his fortune. When he sees Anne for the first time since the end of their engagement, he declares her — in perhaps the most blisteringly painful insult of any Austen novel — “so altered that he should not have known her again.”
Over the course of the book, Anne and Wentworth come back together, culminating in the much-celebrated scene in which Anne stands in a pub talking with a friend as Wentworth, at the next table, writes her a love letter. It’s perhaps the most swooningly romantic moment in all of Austen’s novels, and it works so well in part because of its impeccable structure, and in part because it fits so nicely into Anne’s larger character arc.
Anne is an odd creature for an Austen heroine: She is not sparklingly witty, like Pride and Prejudice’s Lizzie Bennet; nor is she acerbically rational like Sense and Sensibility’s Elinor Dashwood, endearingly silly like Northanger Abbey’s Catherine Morland, or brashly confident like Emma’s Emma Woodhouse. Her closest cousin might be Mansfield Park’s fading and timid Fanny Price (nobody’s favorite Austen character), but Anne has more backbone than Fanny does, and her narration is more thoughtful. She is quiet and self-contained; she would easily fade into the background if not for the exquisite craftsmanship of her inner monologue.
Anne sees the world with as much intelligence and insight as Lizzie Bennet does, but where Lizzie is by turns delighted and outraged by her neighbors’ foibles, Anne is either gently amused or gently saddened. She is too tired and too worn down by life to express her emotions as vividly and passionately as Lizzie does; she has learned instead to react to the world by shrugging.
That’s part of what makes the emotional arc of Persuasion so effective: Over the course of the book, you watch Anne slowly learn how to express her feelings once again — at first painfully, with her profound mortification over Wentworth’s return, and then more happily, as she and Wentworth gradually fall back in love with each other. And that arc reaches its culmination in the letter scene.
In Persuasion’s penultimate chapter, Anne and Wentworth find themselves in the same room of a pub together, Anne to meet a friend and Wentworth to write a letter. The scene that ensues is a master class in slowly building romantic tension and the catharsis of relief, and in how to marry a romantic arc to a character arc.
As soon as she sees Wentworth, Anne is at once overwhelmed with emotions so intense and so confused and inexpressible that they are almost claustrophobic: She is “outwardly composed” but inwardly “deep in the happiness of such misery, or the misery of such happiness.” She cannot describe what she is feeling even to the reader; she certainly cannot express it to Wentworth. Wentworth, meanwhile, is engrossed by his writing, and a whole flock of other characters sit around gossiping.
The tension mounts slowly at first. Anne continues to sit perfectly still and silently in a torrent of feelings, and Wentworth continues to write, and neither of them so much as glances at the other until the conversation turns to the topic of engagements, and how important it is that children listen to their parents’ advice in such matters. Then:
Anne found an unexpected interest here. She felt its application to herself, felt it in a nervous thrill all over her, and at the same moment that her eyes instinctively glanced towards the distant table, Captain Wentworth’s pen ceased to move, his head was raised, pausing, listening, and he turned round the next instant to give a look — one quick, conscious look at her.
For Austen, who tends to keep her characters restrained even during their most passionate speeches — and for Persuasion, which has been starving Anne Elliot for genuine emotional contact for hundreds of pages by this point — that “quick, conscious look” is the equivalent of a gunshot.
The tension is high now. Anne can no longer hear the conversation — “it was only a buzz of words in her ear, her mind was in confusion.”
As Anne struggles to maintain her composure, Wentworth’s friend Captain Harville draws her into conversation, and they begin to discuss the different ways in which men and women fall in love. Women, Anne explains, “live at home, quiet, confined, and our feelings prey on us,” which makes it almost impossible for them to fall out of love. But men “have always a profession, pursuits, business of some sort or other, to take you back into the world immediately,” which allows them to easily forget a relationship as soon as it ends.
It’s a quietly radical defense of female emotions in a world that dismisses them as so much hysteria, and — more pertinently to this scene — an indirect avowal of Anne’s own emotions. After spending an entire novel trying to present herself as someone who feels nothing and is bothered by nothing, she’s at last beginning to lay claim to the idea that she is allowed to feel things.
The speech stops Wentworth cold. He goes so far as to drop his pen, which in this refined and elegant world is more or less the same thing as climbing on top of the table and screaming. And as he finishes his letter, he is in “great haste,” his papers “scattered” and his attitude “forgetful” and “agitated.” It’s in a positive torrent of emotion, with the scene at its most tense, that he at last slips the letter to Anne, “with eyes of glowing entreaty fixed on her.”
The tension is unbearable, both for the reader and for Anne, newly awakened to her own emotions. “Anything was possible,” she thinks feverishly, “anything might be defied rather than suspense.” When she opens the letter, she is not doing anything so passive and so ladylike as reading; instead, “her eyes devoured” its contents:
I can no longer listen in silence. I must speak to you by such means as are within my reach. You pierce my soul. I am half agony, half hope. Tell me that I am not too late, that such precious feelings are gone forever. I offer myself to you with a heart even more your own than when you broke it almost eight years and a half ago. …
The letter is such an effective climax — both to this particular scene and to the novel itself — that it almost doesn’t matter that Anne and Wentworth have not, technically, spoken to each other, or that their true reunion won’t come for another scene. The reunion scene is beside the point; it’s denouement. It’s the letter scene that matters.
Part of what makes Persuasion’s letter scene so swooningly romantic is that it’s structured like the revelation scene in a murder mystery, where the detective lines up all of the suspects and explains exactly who the killer is and how they did it.
We have a problem — in this case, not a dead body with no clear killer, but two people who clearly should be together but are not. We know what the solution should be. In a murder mystery, it’s for the killer to be revealed and face punishment; here, it’s for the two lovers to recognize that they are both in love and reunite.
And the scene keeps inching us toward that end, only to frustrate everything: There are Anne and Wentworth in the same room, but unable to speak to each other because Wentworth is writing a letter. There are Anne and Wentworth recognizing the significance of their past relationship, but unable to speak of it explicitly while in front of other people. There is Anne at last recognizing the strength of her feelings out loud — but can Wentworth hear her? What is he writing? The frustration mounts and mounts until Anne can finally, at last, open the letter, and the reader gets the same satisfaction as knowing whodunit in a murder mystery: At last, all is revealed.
But what really elevates Persuasion’s letter scene, beyond its mastery of plot mechanics, is how carefully it marries Anne’s character arc to the love story of Anne and Wentworth. Anne’s quiet repression is the great problem of Persuasion, her willingness to put her own feelings aside for the convenience of others. It’s that repression that leads her to break off her first engagement to Wentworth at her family’s urging, and that, in the novel’s opening pages, seems to have committed her to a life of self-effacement, of uncomplainingly doing nothing but what is best for other people.
The great relief of the letter scene is that, for the first time, Anne is allowed to recognize that she has emotions, that they are real and strong and valid. That personal breakthrough enables the romantic breakthrough, and creates the immense catharsis of not only the romantic resolution but also the resolution of Anne’s personal arc. She has, at last, solved the novel’s problem and come into her own.
Apple is taking yet another leap toward making its emoji slate more inclusive with its latest release, which will feature “woman with headscarf” and “breastfeeding” icon options.
The update will also include a new “bearded person” emoji, more mythical creatures like “genie” and “zombie,” and expressive new smiley faces intended to convey such emotions and behaviors as “mind-blown” and “vomiting.”
The company previewed its new emoji on Monday in conjunction with World Emoji Day, which falls on July 17 because that’s the date depicted by the iOS calendar emoji. The newest additions will become available later this year.
Apple’s newest digital icons are in line with the company’s recent and largely praised moves to take emoji in a more universal direction.
Over the past half-decade, Apple has drastically expanded the diversity of its emoji palette in response to widespread requests for a more representative slate. After an update to include art for LGBTQ couples in 2012, African-American icons were added in 2014. An update in 2015 further expanded the skin tones on offer, and included five races all based on the Fitzpatrick scale, a skin color classification system developed in 1975.
Related
Most recently, the 2016 update saw Apple equalizing its gender representation, adding gender options for single-parent families and new female athletes and professionals — leveling out the largely male representation among sports emojis.
Of the company’s shift toward more diverse digital representation, Apple’s vice president of worldwide corporate communications Katie Cotton told MTV back in 2014, “There needs to be more diversity in the emoji character set, and we have been working closely with the Unicode Consortium in an effort to update the standard.”
Other noteworthy icons in Apple’s 2017 update include new food entries (sandwich, coconut), new animals (zebra, T. rex), and additional new smileys (“starstruck”).
Every time I post a Game of Thrones recap, I tense, waiting for the show’s fan base to disagree with me on some minor point and then send me endless waves of emails and tweets about said minor point. Sometimes they’re in the right, because I’ve forgotten some point of lore or something similar. Sometimes it’s just a difference of opinion.
And sometimes I didn’t castigate the show for having the temerity to stick Ed Sheeran in the midst of its medieval milieu.
Sheeran’s brief cameo in the season seven premiere, “Dragonstone” — in which he sings a song, then mostly sits and smiles while the real actors do the acting — has become one of the episode’s major flashpoints. Mostly, people seem to be really upset or confused that he was there.
ed sheeranfucking seriously
Good morning everyone except Ed Sheeran's Game of Thrones cameo.
That Ed Sheeran cameo was on the level of Jimmy Fallon randomly appearing in Band of Brothers for exactly NO reason
I can sympathize. I’m no Sheeran fan, and I find most of his music cloying and ickily sentimental. But when I saw him in “Dragonstone,” I giggled, less because I was happy to see him and more because it suggests the older and more popular Game of Thrones gets, the more the show has a sense of humor about itself.
Could the episode have survived without the Sheeran cameo? Of course. But his presence also isn’t a huge black mark on “Dragonstone” or the series. He’s in, he’s out, and that’s that.
I understand the objections to Sheeran’s presence in “Dragonstone.” Even setting aside the fact that his music is divisive, he’s a recognizable celebrity, popping up in a world that’s supposed to be completely separate from ours.
Like a lot of fantasy and sci-fi shows, Game of Thrones is meant to allow viewers to lose themselves in another world entirely, and having one of the biggest and most recognizable pop stars of the moment turn up impinges on that in some small way. It’s not like when, say, famous Hollywood stars would show up on The Sopranos, which ostensibly took place in our reality, or when Jim Broadbent (an Oscar-winning actor) shows up in “Dragonstone” as the Archmaester, because he’s an actual actor, who can craft a character to play. Sheeran is just sorta there, calling your attention to his presence in distracting fashion. (That said, he’s far from the first famous musician to pop up on Game of Thrones, which has also cast members of everything from Sigur Ros to Coldplay among the musicians of Westeros.)
But, again, I’m more or less fine with his distracting presence. Let’s start with why he was on set, which was because showrunners David Benioff and D.B. Weiss recruited him as a present for their young star Maisie Williams, a serious music fan. (Vanity Fair’s Joanna Robinson has more on this particular point.) Any given TV show is an absolute slog after a certain point, and that applies in particular to the hugely complicated production that is Game of Thrones. You find ways to cut through that slog however you can, including doing something nice for a then-19-year-old.
But even setting aside the Maisie Williams of it all, I liked how Sheeran popping up suggested the show is having some fun with its status as biggest show in the world. Sheeran isn’t quite to Taylor Swift or Beyoncé levels of fame, but he’s definitely only a step or two down from them. By convincing him to turn up, the show is effectively offering its own version of all of those teen soaps where some up-and-coming band just happens to be playing at the local club, only it’s found a far, far bigger star to stop by.
In the end, I mostly just liked that Sheeran’s presence suggested the show isn’t afraid to be a little goofy. For me, the low point of Game of Thrones was its dreadfully self-serious fifth season, when most of the plots ground to a halt in favor of needless spectacle and pointless big, sadistic twists. The show has never been a comedy, or even consistently funny, but it’s always had a sense of humor, and that largely leached out of it in season five.
It was a relief, then, that season six was much fleeter of step and lighter in tone, even as horrible things were happening. It was a season that suggested all involved were grateful to see the light coming at the end of the tunnel, and the same applies to Sheeran’s cameo.
Is it a little weird? Sure. Does it take you out of the show for a split second? I guess. But the best TV shows often offer a sly little wink that reminds you you’re just watching a TV show. Game of Thrones has all the Emmys and viewers and critical plaudits it can handle. It would be so, so easy for it to disappear into a spiral of pompous self-regard. But “Dragonstone” suggests fearing such a turn is unwarranted — and one of the main ways it does so is via the twinkling mug of a famous pop star.
Martin Landau, a versatile character actor and Oscar winner whose career in film and television spanned more than half a century, died on Sunday, July 16, after “unexpected complications” during a hospital stay, according to his publicist. He was 89.
Immediately recognizable for his tall, lean frame and expressive face, Landau had a prolific career that saw him appear in movies ranging from studio epics to schlock horror films, and it’s hard to name a procedural television show from the ’60s and ’70s that he didn’t pop up on at some point. (And that’s to say nothing of his late-career recurring role on Entourage, which earned him his sixth Emmy nod.)
The type of actor who spoke frequently and lovingly of his craft — in addition to teaching it, as part of his tenure as co-artistic director of the Hollywood branch of the Actors Studio — Landau was a quintessential character actor, for whom seemingly no role was too minor to delve into and make his own. But his career and performances were far from workmanlike: Landau made his mark on Hollywood early, and sustained and expanded it through intense dedication and preparation.
Landau’s confident approach to acting was informed in large part by his Actors Studio training at the hands of the notoriously take-no-prisoners Lee Strasberg. “[Strasberg taught me that] a certain actor's arrogance is needed,” Landau said in 2016. “Play the truth. Actors need to trust themselves. If you trust yourself, you can trust others and leave the director outside.”
Throughout his career, Landau worked with legendary directors ranging from Alfred Hitchcock to Francis Ford Coppola — but the actor was insistent that the responsibility for a performance falls first and foremost on the actor giving that performance.
In that same interview from 2016, he remarked that he “[hadn’t] been directed by anybody in probably 30 or 35 years,” a comment that could seem haughty were it not backed up by decades of delivering the goods onscreen. “I think if they don't like what I'm doing, they'll say something,” he said. “They don't say anything. So I hit the mark, say the words, and get the hell out of there.”
So in honor of a lifetime of hitting his marks and getting the hell out of there, here are three indelible Landau performances that illustrate his confidence and versatility as an actor.
Following a brief tenure as a newspaper cartoonist and illustrator in his late teens and early 20s, Landau transitioned into acting, training at the Actors Studio with Strasberg and doing theater work, including the national tour of Middle of the Night. It was the Los Angeles run of that show that brought him to the attention of Alfred Hitchcock, who gave the actor, by then 30 years old, his first film role in North By Northwest as Leonard, one of the two henchmen who pursue Cary Grant throughout the film. Landau liked to tell the story of asking Hitchcock why the director cast an unknown like him in the role, to which Hitchcock replied, “If you can do that part in the play, you can do this little trinket of mine.”
Generally considered one of the best films of all time, North by Northwest is not lacking for memorable performances, including Grant’s resourceful protagonist, Eva Marie Saint as his enigmatic ally, and James Mason as Leonard’s boss Vandamm. But even amid those eye-catching performances, Landau is a striking, menacing presence each time he appears onscreen, thanks to his piercing eyes and imposing yet cool demeanor.
Notably, Landau said he chose to play Leonard as a gay character, an unusual choice for a performer at that time: “My logic was simply that he wanted to get rid of Eva Marie Saint with such a vengeance, so it made sense for him to be in love with his boss,” Landau said in 2012. “Every one of my friends thought I was crazy, but Hitchcock liked it. A good director makes a playground and allows you to play.”
Initially conceived as a recurring guest character (due to Landau not wanting to commit to a regular TV gig that could interfere with the possibility of film roles), Rollin Hand would go on to become one of the most memorable and beloved characters from the Mission: Impossible TV series of the late ’60s and early ’70s. An IMF agent known as “the man of a million faces,” Rollin Hand was conceived as a brilliant impersonator, a characterization perfectly calibrated to Landau’s gifts as an actor. (The role was reportedly written with Landau in mind, to the point that the character was named “Martin Land” in the pilot script.)
Playing a gifted mimic, Landau would often perform as Rollin’s marks from under heavy makeup, or dub lines for other actors — but not always. In one of the series’ most celebrated episodes, “The Mind of Stefan Miklos,” Landau impersonated two different men as part of a sting-like operation, showcasing his skill at creating two distinct characters through physicality alone, no makeup or prosthetics necessary.
After Mission: Impossible, Landau’s work in TV subsumed his burgeoning film career for a while. (“I’d worked for the giants at the beginning — George Stevens, Hitchcock,” Landau told the LA Times in 1989. “And then it all stopped because I was a television actor.”) But the pendulum began to swing the other way in 1988, after Landau was cast as wily financier Abe Karatz in Francis Ford Coppola’s Tucker: The Man and His Dream.
Landau’s unexpected appearance in that film led to his work in Woody Allen’s Crimes and Misdemeanors the following year, and he earned back-to-back Supporting Actor Oscar nominations for the two roles. Suddenly, Landau was getting meaty, interesting film roles again — the most celebrated of which came in 1994, with his performance as Bela Lugosi in Tim Burton’s Ed Wood, garnering predictions of a Supporting Actor Oscar win before the film even came out.
Those predictions would come true, with Landau winning his first and only Oscar for playing Lugosi. His colorful but tragic characterization of the horror icon is one of the most indelible parts of Burton’s film, and while Lugosi’s son reportedly objected to the portrayal, Landau approached the role with the exact sort of care and consideration he brought to seemingly every role he played, creating a distinctive character that rises above the level of mere impersonation.
Now that Game of Thrones has finally returned and Dany is on the shores of Westeros (and in the wake of last season’s confirmation of the “R + L = J” equation surrounding Jon Snow’s parentage, no less), you might need a refresher course on the Targaryen dynasty.
You’re in luck — an enterprising fanartist has drawn the entire House Targaryen family tree, and the results are as educational as they are gorgeous.
Maryon B. is a 28-year-old French freelance artist and video game developer currently living in Helsinki. She’s also a die-hard Game of Thrones fan, which might explain why she’s illustrated the entire lineage of House Targaryen (home of one Daenerys, Mother of Dragons) from George R.R. Martin’s A Song of Ice and Fire series of novels — even though, as she says in her description of the project on DeviantArt, "I DON'T EVEN LIKE HOUSE TARGARYEN WHY DID I DO THIS[?]"
"I actually started the Tree out of spite because all their descriptions (and fan representations) make them look the same — beautiful, silver-haired and purple eyes," she told Vox via email in 2016, after first drawing the tree, "and it frustrated me to see them as elf-clones."
The result is a gorgeous take on the complicated, once-mighty dynasty of the Targaryens. As Game of Thrones fans have heard time and again, this powerful family unified the Seven Kingdoms and ruled over the fictional land of Westeros until Robert Baratheon overthrew the "Mad King," Aerys II, better known as Daenerys’s deceased father.
But if you think that portion of the Targaryens’ legacy is confusing, consider that the full family tree contains more than 100 characters and spans 16 generations of entirely fictional history (click here for the full-size version):
Here’s a look at only one character from this broad tapestry: the second Rhaenys Targaryen. Known in the annals of Westeros history as the "queen who never was," Rhaenys was a dragon rider whose claim to the throne was passed over in favor of her brother. She married Corlys Velaryon and died fighting a battle on dragonback at the age of 52:
Rhaenys’s great-grandmother was Alyssa Velaryon, who joined the Targaryen dynasty by marrying Aenys I, a politically wily man who took the throne amid great upheaval. They had six children before Aenys was killed and Alyssa taken hostage by her husband’s half-brother Maegor. (And from there, things get really complicated.)
Further down the family tree, there’s House Blackfyre, an illegitimate house sanctioned by the lust-ridden King Aegon Targaryen IV, who’s generally considered the worst king ever. His decision to legitimize all of the bastard children he fathered with his many mistresses — announced from his deathbed — prompted five generations of battles for the throne known as the Blackfyre Rebellions.
Maryon says she got into Martin's novels and related writing during the long hiatus between seasons two and three of Game of Thrones. She started the Targaryen family tree project more or less on accident after drawing Baelor Breakspear and Maekar, characters who figure prominently in Tales of Dunk and Egg, Martin's collection of related novellas set in the Song of Ice and Fire universe. Naturally, the project spiraled:
[I]t got me interested in their ancestors, so I worked from there. At first I never thought I'd do the whole bunch, but it's when I realized that I was already halfway through just by making Maekar's descendants that I gave in: "While I'm at it, might as well do the rest…"
Maryon says the project turned out to be "a very challenging artistic exercise, to keep on coming up with facial variety all while maintaining the same 'silver hair-purple eyes' features and some genetic similarities."
"I had to find inspiration and study some real people's faces so I learned a lot since I started."
Above all, a look at the full family tree reveals how often and how strategically the Targaryens secured the future of their line by marrying into other powerful families like the Martells, the Baratheons, and the Velaryons, just as many figures in real-world history have done. And when Maryon was finished, she says she'd actually become fonder of the Targaryens than she was when she began:
"[I]n the end it made me appreciate House Targaryen much more since now I share a personal story with each and every one of them, and I would suggest anyone who likes Game of Thrones to be curious about them because they have a lot of stories to tell."
You can see these and many more excerpts from the Targaryen family tree, as well as other Game of Thrones portraits, on Maryon’s DeviantArt page. She’s stated that she hopes to eventually produce a print version of the full family tree, but in the meantime she's done a few more complicated Game of Thrones projects, including a set of Major Arcana tarot cards.
On Monday morning, BuzzFeed published an explosive article reporting that R&B legend R. Kelly is holding multiple young women against their will in what their parents are calling an abusive sex cult. But the young women in question keep telling the police that they’re there of their own free will. And since all of them are at least 18 years old, the police can’t do anything.
BuzzFeed’s report is detailed, thorough, and immensely disturbing. It alleges that Kelly targets young women who come to him for help with their fledgling music careers: He seems to offer them professional guidance, and then instead he initiates sexual relationships with them behind their parents’ backs.
Most of the women are 19 or in their early 20s, and were still living with their parents or in college when Kelly allegedly targeted them. According to BuzzFeed, Kelly’s MO is to talk with his targets secretly via cellphone for several months, then fly them out to one of his concerts to sleep with them.
He begins to control the girls’ appearance and behavior. One of his alleged victims lost weight and cut, dyed, and permed her hair, apparently on Kelly’s orders. He allegedly beat the same girl when she laughed at a joke made by a male cab driver. He confiscates the girls’ cellphones and replaces them with new ones, instructing them to ask his permission if they want to use the new phones to contact anyone besides him.
Eventually, BuzzFeed reports, Kelly brings his victims to live in one of the properties he rents around the country. BuzzFeed was able to confirm that five women were living in his Chicago recording studio last summer; according to its sources, the women are required to call Kelly “Daddy” and to ask his permission before leaving their rooms. They dress in jogging suits so that no one else can see their bodies, and when other men are in the room, they are required to turn around and face the wall. BuzzFeed’s sources also say that Kelly routinely films his sexual activities and shares the videos with other men, and that when any of the women “break the rules,” Kelly punishes them verbally and physically.
“It was as if she was brainwashed. [She] looked like a prisoner — it was horrible,” the mother of one of the women at Kelly’s compound told BuzzFeed of the last time she saw her daughter. “I hugged her and hugged her. But she just kept saying she’s in love and [Kelly] is the one who cares for her. I don’t know what to do. I hope that if I get her back, I can get her treatment for victims of cults. They can reprogram her. But I wish I could have stopped it from happening.”
Through a lawyer, Kelly issued a statement denying the Buzzfeed report. “Mr. Robert Kelly is both alarmed and disturbed at the recent revelations attributed to him,” the statement reads. “Mr. Kelly unequivocally denies such allegations and will work diligently and forcibly to pursue his accusers and clear his name.”
Buzzfeed’s piece was written and reported by music journalist and former Chicago Sun-Times reporter Jim DeRogatis, who has been covering Kelly for almost 20 years. He’s extremely familiar with the long list of sex crime allegations that have been brought against Kelly, and given his latest reporting, it’s worth going back to look at some of his past work.
DeRogatis has developed a detailed timeline of Kelly’s history of alleged sexual abuse, including rumors that Kelly himself was abused as a child. It provides valuable context to the latest, immensely disturbing development in this long-running and too-long-ignored story and is worth reading in full, but here’s an overview.
“R. Kelly was a huge story for me,” DeRogatis told the Village Voice in 2013, “this guy who rose from not graduating from Kenwood Academy, singing at backyard barbecues and on the El, to suddenly selling millions of records.”
Following an anonymous tip that was faxed to the Sun-Times offices in 2000, DeRogatis broke the story that Kelly was facing lawsuits from multiple women who alleged that he initiated sexual relationships with them as minors.
“There is a split in Kelly's music between the anthemic ‘I Believe I Can Fly’ and the down and dirty ‘Bump N' Grind,’ and between the spiritual ‘I Wish’ and the self-explanatory ‘I Like the Crotch on You,’” DeRogatis wrote at the time. “That split apparently has been mirrored by the contrast between his public stance as a hero for young children and his private behavior with young girls.”
According to the suits DeRogatis uncovered, when Kelly was in his 20s, he began to make a practice of visiting his old school, Kenwood Academy, sitting in on the choir class as a conquering hero, and picking up sophomore girls.
He allegedly dumped one girl when she turned 18. Shortly afterward, she slit her wrists.
“He told [us both], ‘If you want to be serious about the music, you have to be at the studio and not at school, because school isn't going to make you a millionaire,’” one girl  told DeRogatis of the sexual relationship she alleged Kelly initiated with her and her friend. “At 16, that's like a dream to us to work with R. Kelly, so we listened to him.”
Even before DeRogatis broke the news of the lawsuits against Kelly, the musician did not have a squeaky-clean past. In 1991, a then-24-year-old Kelly met 12-year-old Aaliyah Haughton. Three years later, Kelly produced the Aaliyah album Age Ain’t Nothing but a Number and married the singer, using a false birth certificate that claimed the 15-year-old Aaliyah was 18.
The marriage was quickly annulled, and Aaliyah returned to her family; the controversy then died down, leaving behind only a few mild rumors. “There were rumors that Kelly likes them young,” DeRogatis recalled in 2013. So when he received his first anonymous tip in 2000, “I think, ‘Oh, this is somebody playing with this.’”
But when he checked the tip against court records, he found piles of long-ignored lawsuits. “These suits had been filed at 4 p.m. on Christmas Eve,” he says. “Ain’t no reporter working at 4 p.m. on Christmas Eve, and they flew under the radar” — at least, they did until the Sun-Times picked up the story.
In 2002, an anonymous source dropped a videotape into DeRogatis’s home mailbox. It was the infamous “child pee” tape, 26 minutes and 39 seconds of footage showing Kelly engaging in sex acts with and urinating on a young girl, who clearly appeared to be a minor and was reportedly 14 years old. The Sun-Times handed the tape over to the police, and later that year Kelly was indicted on 21 counts of making child pornography, but not rape.
The case would not go to trial until 2008, in a strategy that some experts call “victory by delay.” The jury would eventually conclude that they could not conclusively prove that the girl on the tape was a minor, and Kelly was found not guilty on all counts. “He was not tried for rape,” DeRogatis points out. “He’s never been tried in court for rape.”
Since he began following the Kelly story, DeRogatis has been vocal about how troubling he finds Kelly’s continued public success. “I’ve never expected other journalists and critics to feel as strongly about this story as I do,” he wrote in 2014. “But neither did I expect the cultural amnesia that for years allowed many to ignore any reference to Kelly’s crimes, despite the mountains of evidence in the public record, or to dismiss them with a fleeting nod to past ‘controversy’ or ‘rumors.’”
“The saddest fact I’ve learned is: Nobody matters less to our society than young black women,” he told the Village Voice, adding, “Kelly never misbehaved with a single white girl who sued him or that we know of.” DeRogatis cites Mark Anthony Neal, the African-American scholar, in making this point: “One white girl in Winnetka and the story would have been different. No, it was young black girls and all of them settled. They settled because they felt they could get no justice whatsoever. They didn’t have a chance.”
In his new piece for BuzzFeed, DeRogatis does not identify the race of any of the women whom Kelly is currently allegedly holding, but Kelly’s past alleged victims have all been young and black. If Kelly is following his previously established patterns, these women most likely are as well.
Which suggests that any success in freeing these women will depend, in part, on whether our society has made up its mind to care about young black women. It will depend on whether we are willing to fight for them.
Update: This story has been updated to include R. Kelly’s statement on the allegations.
From a triumphant Frey feast turned bloody to Daenerys Targaryen returning to her ancestral home, “Dragonstone,” Game of Thrones’ seventh season premiere, is filled with moments long foretold that, nonetheless, lose a little of their power for essentially repeating dramatic beats from the season six finale.
Then again, the season six finale was one of the best episodes the show has ever come up with, so it’s not like this is a bad thing. Copying off the paper of the smartest kid in class can usually net you a B or B+ if you do it just right, and that’s where “Dragonstone” lands — not the best Game of Thrones episode (or even premiere) ever, but certainly far from the worst.
It’s a rollicking, surprisingly humorous hour that seems designed, mostly, to make you glad the show is back. It can deal with major plot developments a little later.
So are you glad the show is back? I certainly am. Even when I can’t stand Game of Thrones, I love Game of Thrones. It’s a weirdly addictive show, deeply fun to watch even when it’s being over the top in its grimness, because there’s always something happening.
So where is everybody as season seven begins? Let’s check in on them, and take a look at who’s on top and who’s scrambling to keep up.
Does Dany do much of anything in “Dragonstone”? Nope. But people can’t stop talking about her!
Cersei knows Dany is headed toward Westeros, with Tyrion and three dragons at her side. Jorah grabs Sam at the Citadel, asking him if the queen has yet arrived. And, hell, the episode is named for her ancestral home, to which she returns at its very end. (The castle turns out to be built atop a bunch of dragonglass, which Jon needs desperately — and you can see where this is going.) This episode is about Dany, even if she doesn’t appear until its last 10 minutes. Even Tyrion — arguably the show’s “protagonist,” whatever that means — is now completely in her service.
That’s how you know you’re a winner, right? Your name is on everybody’s lips? Dany doesn’t even have to talk to make an impression in this episode. Her stroll through Dragonstone is mostly silent, save for a couple of moments, and when she comes to Stannis’s giant, now-abandoned table map, running her fingers along it, director Jeremy Podeswa makes the connection clear: today, Dragonstone; tomorrow, the Seven Kingdoms.
So, since the circumstances of me seeing this episode for the first time matter, I might as well explain.
I was able to watch “Dragonstone” at the official premiere of season seven, with the cast in attendance, with audience cheers rising to the rafters any time anything happened in the episode, which was projected on a big, big screen. Furthermore, the episode was preceded by a performance by the “Game of Thrones orchestra,” led by composer Ramin Djawadi. If ever there were a time to be primed to love an episode of Game of Thrones, it would have been then. And, indeed, I loved it!
But when I talked over the episode with some folks after the screening, I realized something: Not much had actually happened in the episode, which was mostly a pause after the calamitous events of the season six finale, or an outright reiteration of them. (The Arya scene that opens the episode is terrific — but it’s also more or less a beat-for-beat repeat of the scene where she killed Walder in the season six finale.) The series took a bunch of narrative momentum out of season six’s back half and largely squandered it.
To be clear: This is not necessarily a bad thing, and I liked the episode. Game of Thrones usually begins its seasons with episodes like this one, where the characters take their time to think about what just happened and take stock of what’s to come.
But those premieres all opened seasons comprising 10 episodes, which gave everything more room to breathe. With just six more episodes left in this season, it’s much easier to see the big wall that is the season finale coming up ahead.
Arya has been through a lot in this series, having lost most everyone she cares about and reinvented herself into a stone-cold assassin. So it’s kind of nice to see her having a good time for once, even if her idea of a good time now involves “murdering everyone loyal to the Freys.” (She lets the Frey daughters and servants live. Good for you, Arya.)
I could quibble (again) with how the opening sequence is just a repeat of something the show’s already done, but it’s so fun that I just can’t.
There’s David Bradley, making one last appearance as villainous old Walder, having the time of his life playing a version of Walder who’s actually played by Arya. There’s the way the scene waits to let this particular penny drop. (At my screening, a slow ripple of laughter spread through the audience as people figured it out, and it was magical.) And there’s Arya’s confident stride out of the room at the sequence’s end, married to a triumphant cut to the credits and that famous theme song.
And Arya doesn’t just kill a bunch of her enemies. She also gets to hang out with some soldiers who are vaguely Lannister-allied but really just want things to return to peace and quiet, so they can hang out with their families. This is one of the better scenes of the episode, and Maisie Williams is so good at just sitting and listening to these guys, taking in what they say.
Also, one of them is played by Ed Sheeran!
Long burdened with only being able to play “The Rains of Castamere” or “The Bear and the Maiden Fair,” the musicians of the Seven Kingdoms now have another hit to add to their rosters, one first performed by pop star extraordinaire Ed Sheeran. (I didn’t catch its title and will wait for the internet to settle upon one.)
A Feast for Crows, the fourth book in the A Song of Ice and Fire series, published in 2005, is a challenging read. Where the other books in the series are high on character turns and big plot twists — at least so far — Feast is largely a thematic exploration of the cost of war on a medieval society, on the way the whims of the rich trample the lives of the poor, and on the way endless cycles of vengeance have a way of permeating themselves throughout a culture. It was written at the height of America’s wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, and it shows.
But that also leaves the book feeling a bit like an outcast. It’s always the one that diehard fans of the books have to defend as being George R.R. Martin’s biggest literary gamble, or as the one where not a lot happens but the characters gain a lot of depth or whatever.
Consequently, it’s the book that’s been least faithfully adapted by the show so far. It, for instance, introduced Dorne and the Sand Snakes, but the show has pretty much just left their plot from the books behind entirely. Similarly, major plot developments in that book (like a certain major character turn) have been completely ignored by the series.
So color me happily surprised that the series is finally nodding more toward Feast this late in its run. In the Arya storyline and the scenes of the Hound at the house of those poor people he left to starve to death several seasons ago, the series checks in with how those not in power feel about this endless cycle of war and chaos. And surprise: They’re not happy about it!
This is also something Sam’s storyline touches on, thanks to Academy Award-winning actor Jim Broadbent as the Archmaester. Though his speech about the impermanence of power and the need to preserve knowledge is presented as an impediment to Sam learning everything he needs to know about the White Walkers, there’s a kernel in there about how little any of this squabbling matters. Lives are brutish and short enough as is. Why make them any more so?
Speaking of Sam’s time in the library, that early montage of his life of drudgery — emptying chamber pots and reshelving books and eating horrible meals — is a highlight of the episode, thanks largely to the clever, enjoyable work from the show’s editing team, which both gives a playful rhythm to Sam’s time at the Citadel and neatly boils down how horrible most of his waking hours can be.
The Citadel also turns out to be where Jorah has been living, now locked away from the world, where his greyscale can’t hurt anyone. His desperate grasping at Sam in hopes of learning whether Dany has landed in Westeros made for an effective jump scare, one slightly ruined by Iain Glen’s name showing up in the opening credits — thus causing me to keep wondering when he was going to pop up. But it neatly underlined how pitiful and awful his circumstances have become.
Up at Winterfell, Jon and company are confronting a pretty weighty question: How do they deal with those who swore their allegiance to Ramsay in the Battle of the Bastards? When you consider just how long the Karstarks have been a thorn in the Starks’ side (since season three!), it would make sense to punish the bannermen that turned against the Starks harshly.
This, as it turns out, is what Sansa proposes. Strip the lands and titles from families that turned to the side of the Boltons, then give those lands and titles to Stark loyalists. It doesn’t matter that the people who actually turned against Jon (or Robb, or Ned, or...) were all killed in battle. Children will suffer for the sins of their fathers, because lessons must be learned.
Of course, Sansa chooses to bring this up at the worst possible time — in front of all of the bannermen — which only causes Jon to accuse her (rightly!) of undermining him. And she doesn’t get her way anyway, because Jon isn’t having it. Which means...
Sigh. Do we have to?
One of the things Game of Thrones has often struggled with is really showing the audience why its chosen two — Jon and Dany — are the “great leaders” their most loyal followers always say they are. It will occasionally feint toward doing so, by having Dany, say, emerge from a full-scale inferno unburned and unharmed (which would get me to fall in line with just about anyone), or by having Jon show off his supposed military prowess and/or stupid courage.
But the show mostly falls back on having a character say, “Wow, you’re a great leader!” and then either Jon or Dany say, “I know.” This isn’t so bad when you’re in season three, but it’s a problem when you’re in season seven and the race to the Iron Throne (and/or a less dehumanizing system of government) is heating up.
The writers clearly know this, however, and they’ve finally started giving Jon some leadership moments to match when, say, Dany ended the slave trade all those seasons ago. (It didn’t work out as well as she’d hoped, but it was the right thing to do. Winner: Daenerys Targaryen’s historical legacy.) Here, Jon’s choices include introducing gender parity to the North’s military (a decision that makes young Lady Lyanna Mormont very happy) and refusing to punish the survivors of the Bolton loyalists (who are mostly kids) for the sins of their parents.
These are the right decisions, and Jon explains them well enough to win over even his skeptics and his half-sister/cousin (who tells him he’s good at being a leader, because we need to make sure to underline that point). But, geez, do we really have to do this? I liked Jon better when he was inspiring and handsome, but also kinda dumb.
Littlefinger continues his hapless quest to woo Sansa, and not only is she not having it, but she’s completely onto his game, as she confides to Brienne. My prediction from last season that she kills him this season is looking better and better.
Were you, for some reason, hoping you’d get to watch Pilou Asbæk and Lena Headey, two of the show’s best actors, who play two characters who couldn’t have less in common, share some screen time together? Were you hoping that meeting might blossom into love? Because if you were, this episode delivered in spades!
Cersei’s brother neatly outlines how screwed she is in an early scene. The Dornish don’t like her. The Starks don’t like her. Dany is closing in from the east. And the Tyrells out west don’t like her either. Worse, the Tyrells don’t have to actively work to destroy her — they can just cut off their supply of food to starve her army and horses. The number of houses allied with her, Jaime admits grimly, is maybe three.
So Cersei considers an outside-the-box alliance with Euron, who simply wants to destroy Yara and Theon — and also to marry Cersei. He’s got so much to offer! Ships! Charisma! Two good hands! Mostly ships!
Now, if you’ve been rooting all this time for Cersei and Euron to hook up, this scene may have disappointed you, since she rejects his proposal, sending him scurrying to bring her “something special.” (My guess: He somehow thinks he can get his hands on Tyrion.) But everybody knows love in Westeros blooms most beautifully when the stakes are high and everybody’s backs are against the wall. Eursei may happen yet!
(I also love how Podeswa rhymes the early scene of Jaime and Cersei stalking about that massive, floor-covering map of the Seven Kingdoms with the late one of Dany and Tyrion at Stannis’s war table. The Lannisters stand astride the country like colossi, but their power is mostly illusory — they mostly gain it from trampling everybody. Dany has only a foothold, but she literally reaches out to touch the country with her hand, which Podeswa shoots with great affection. One of these people has the right approach. The other doesn’t.)
I hope Euron doesn’t think he’s going to make it to the series finale’s end with that crack about how he can provide Cersei with two good hands. Nobody on this show can survive an ironic foreshadowing.
How long has he been walking toward the Seven Kingdoms, methodically marching with his army of the dead? Did he forget that all he has to do is head south? Did he stop to check Mapquest? Regardless, he’s a winner because even if he’s taking his sweet time, he’s still got the biggest, bestest army of them all, complete with undead giants and some really cool walking skeleton designs. The Night King might not yet be king of the Seven Kingdoms, but if I’m honest, he’s the king of my heart.
Other winners: The Hound, for overcoming his fear of fire to gain prophetic gifts; Beric Dondarrion, for realizing he’s just a patsy in some cosmic game; the Lord of Light; the show’s casting directors, for convincing Jim Broadbent to stop by; Lady Lyanna Mormont, on general principle; winter, for arriving; Ed Sheeran, for somehow convincing people he should be on the show.
Other losers: The Seven, who are really on the outs lately; Bran, for having basically nothing to do until the Army of the Dead shows up; that rabbit Arya and her new friends eat; Theon and Yara, for having to stay on the boat, apparently, since we don’t see them debark at Dragonstone; your reviewer, for admitting he loves the Night King.
Blade Runner 2049, the sequel to Ridley Scott’s monumental 1982 original film, debuted a new trailer on Monday morning.
Like we saw in the first trailer, which debuted in May, the dystopian setting that’s been expanded upon by 2049 director Denis Villeneuve is absolutely gorgeous, and we get to see more of that neon, saturated world in this glimpse. But while the first trailer focused on introducing us to Ryan Gosling’s Officer K, this one hints at what’s happened to Harrison Ford’s Rick Deckard, the original film’s reclusive protagonist, since then.
“I covered my tracks, scrambled the records,” Deckard tells K. “We [Deckard and his fellow Blade Runners] were being hunted.”
But before we hear Deckard’s story, he and K are rudely interrupted by Neander Wallace’s (Jared Leto) forces, in particular a replicant that Wallace has nurtured specifically to find the pair. While K is digging into Deckard’s secrets, it seems his history (filled with his own secrets) is just as important to the fate of this world.
Blade Runner 2049 hits theaters on October 6, 2017.
Hawk sits, listening to his friend the Log Lady, on the other end of a phone call. His eyes are closed. He almost seems like he’s meditating.
After a long monologue that seems like the Log Lady’s usual obtuse profundity, she concludes with a very simple statement: “Hawk, Laura is the one.” Indeed, maybe we should capitalize that O. “Laura is the One.”
That phrase was also the episode description Showtime offered up for “Part 10.” (Instead of writing traditional episode descriptions for its Twin Peaks miniseries, the network uses disconnected lines of dialogue.) So I’d spent several days since first reading the description, with its sadly uncapitalized o, wondering what it could mean. That Laura was the key to unlocking all of Twin Peaks’ secrets? That she, too, had returned to our plane, along with Cooper? That she was the One who could transcend life and death?
Related
Well, not quite. “Part 10” is slower and more ruminative than the last few episodes of Twin Peaks, and it moves to its own rhythm as well. It feels, in some ways, like it’s constructed from spare bits and pieces that didn’t fit into those earlier episodes, and its contribution to the forward movement of the plot is minimal.
But that doesn’t matter, because what “Part 10” is trying to suggest is that Laura is the prism through which the rest of the show’s characters need to see the world — and especially the way women are treated within it.
I’ve always hesitated a bit to call Twin Peaks a “feminist” show — at least in the colloquial definition of “feminist art,” which usually just means something that either highlights a well-drawn female protagonist or explores the ways horrible things are brought upon women in a patriarchal society. (For a show that fits both of those descriptions, think about Hulu’s The Handmaid’s Tale, or the Margaret Atwood novel that inspired it.)
But Twin Peaks is at least adjacent to that second colloquial definition. (I should hasten to add here that academic feminist criticism is much more rigorous than my offhand summation of mainstream criticism inspired by academic feminist criticism. But that goes for most mainstream criticism in its relationship to its academic cousin.) The show’s original sin was the brutal murder of Laura Palmer, and the more that Cooper investigated her death, the more he realized she had been subject to all manner of horrible things.
Within the ’50s-inspired small-town world of Twin Peaks, both men and women crumble beneath a societal insistence upon traditional gender roles. Most of them escape that crumbling by giving in to their own inner oddity, but some turn violent, or become the objects of violence.
This is why Laura remains so important to the show, long after her murder was solved. She’s the Rosetta stone to understand everything else, just as the Black Lodge is at the center of Twin Peaks’ mythology because it’s a beautifully elastic symbol for Everything Evil and/or Mysterious in the World. Laura is at once an American archetype — the blonde homecoming queen — but also far more complicated than her surface. And yet the residents of Twin Peaks, confident in their belief that they knew her from the surface she presented, mostly didn’t dig beneath it until it was too late.
Plenty of the original Twin Peaks, especially after David Lynch and Mark Frost left, didn’t engage with this idea of the world warping and destroying young women — or it did so poorly (the Miss Twin Peaks pageant from late in the second season comes to mind). But it’s so baked into the show’s DNA, thanks to being present from the very first, that the show can never get away from it for long.
And it’s been present in the miniseries as well. Right away in the two-hour premiere, a dead woman’s head was found with a dead man’s headless body, and Evil Cooper was killing a scantily clad woman. There have been episodes since then where I’ve found myself reflexively shuddering when a woman enters view because I fear something bad might happen to her, whether by forces supernatural or (more often) otherwise.
And this is, I think, what Lynch and Frost intend. Twin Peaks contains lots of violence against women because the world it takes place in contains lots of violence against women, as does our world. This idea — that the kind of carefully constructed small-town utopia the American dream is built on comes with a hefty side of misogyny and violence against women — has been present in a lot of Lynch’s work. But it’s never been so prominently in the foreground as it is in this miniseries.
It’s not like you have to go digging to find this theme. One of the earliest scenes in the episode involves Harry Dean Stanton’s Carl, last seen in “Part 6,” pausing in playing “Red River Valley” on his guitar because Steven (the husband of Becky, the character played by Amanda Seyfried, who was last seen along with Steven in “Part 5”) has thrown a mug through the window of the trailer next door. Carl shakes his head and laments the violence, but he also doesn’t do anything about it.
Cut to inside the trailer. Steven has pushed Becky back onto the couch, and he launches himself at her, hands going for her throat. He’s desperate and mad, and he’s going to take it out on someone smaller than him, someone who’s nearby. That someone is his wife.
Seeing that scene early on in “Part 10” makes a lot of a seemingly disconnected moments snap into place. Take, for instance, the scenes in Las Vegas, which often have scantily clad blondes (named Candie, Randie, and Mandie) running around in the background or weeping with sorrow over having accidentally hit a man with a remote while trying to kill a fly. (That Candie cries over an accident, while Steven seems completely unaware of what he’s actively choosing to do, might be key here too.)
Or think about how everybody just assumes Gordon brought Tammy along on the case because he thinks she’s attractive. Or Richard going to his grandmother’s house to rob her. Or any other number of scenes where the relationship between a man and woman — platonic or romantic or otherwise — seems as if it could turn poisonous at any moment, because it’s steeped in toxicity from the start.
Twin Peaks doesn’t believe relationships between men and women are inherently horrible. Indeed, there’s a very sweet scene in “Part 10” when we get to peek in on Albert and Constance having a quiet dinner for two, one that seems like a little gift from the show to the audience, an oasis from everything else that’s happening.
And if nothing else, there’s the continued and growing closeness of Janey-E and Cooper/Dougie, who seem as if they’re slowly but surely falling in love. (I’m sure her eventual realization that he’s not her husband, but rather a doppelgänger from another dimension, will just fuck everything up.)
Yet you don’t have to listen too closely to stories of Dougie and Janey-E’s past to discern that the way things were before was horribly broken, even if it wasn’t outright violent. To be taken for granted by someone you once deeply loved carries its own kind of horror.
So, yes, Laura is the One, and her phantom even turns up at Gordon’s door in this episode as if she wants to underline the point. But she’s also not the One, in the sense of being the key that unlocks all mysteries — though she may still prove to be that. She’s “the One” in the sense that she keeps turning our focus toward something dark and poisonous at the heart of too many lives.
So many of David Lynch’s films have been about how easy it is to pretend you don’t know what’s happening behind the closed door next door, even when that mug comes flying through the window. Laura is important because she forces us to look, if only for a little while.
Spoilers follow for Game of Thrones season seven, episode one, “Dragonstone.”
Game of Thrones’ new season premiere ends with a scene fraught with import, as Daenerys Targaryen and her invasion force finally land in Westeros.
It’s a big scene in part because Dany is now setting foot on the soil of her native continent for the first time in the entire series, after six seasons’ worth of buildup. (Some book readers have been waiting for this to happen since 1996, when A Game of Thrones was first published.) But for fans who know the history George R.R. Martin wrote for the Targaryen family, there’s even more resonance in Daenerys’s specific choice of landing site: the island of Dragonstone.
Viewers may recognize the island and its stone-dragon-filled castle because it served as the home base for Stannis Baratheon in several previous seasons. But in Martin’s mythology, Dragonstone is much more than “that place Stannis spent a lot of time sulking.”
It’s the first territory Dany’s Targaryen ancestors claimed in Westeros centuries earlier.
It’s the place the Targaryens plotted the conquest of the rest of the continent.
It’s the place Dany herself was born.
And it’s a place that could hold the key to defeating the White Walkers.
In Martin’s history, most of the major families we’re aware of (such as the Starks, the Lannisters, and the Greyjoys) are said to have lived in Westeros for thousands of years. The Targaryens, in contrast, are relative newcomers. Their ancestral roots are instead on Essos, the eastern continent Daenerys has been traipsing around for the past six seasons.
Specifically, the Targaryens are descended from the people of the ancient city of Valyria — the dragon-powered empire that dominated much of Martin’s world centuries ago, in a sort of analogue to the real-world Roman Empire. The Targaryens’ white hair (and, in the books, purple eyes) mark them as Valyrian rather than Westerosi.
According The World of Ice and Fire, a companion book by Martin — a relevant excerpt from which you can read here — the Targaryens were just one among many Valyrian noble “dragonlord” families.
But the Targaryens stood out for their exquisite timing. That’s because they decided to pull up their roots and move away from Valyria just a few years before the empire’s mysterious and apocalyptic collapse (an event that entailed Valyria’s total destruction and the deaths of all the other dragonlords).
For their new home, the Targaryens claimed a small island off the eastern coast of Westeros, which they named Dragonstone.
Martin writes that for 100 years or so after the Targaryens took Dragonstone, they essentially left the lords of Westeros alone. Then Aegon the Conqueror came along and decided to shake things up.
Though Aegon only had a small army, he decided that with the help of his three dragons, he could take over the entire continent and unify its seven kingdoms under his leadership, making him the first king of all Westeros.
At Dragonstone, Aegon plotted his invasion. He had an enormous table carved and painted to look like a detailed map of Westeros. (You may remember this table as the one Stannis and Melisandre, er, enjoyed each other on back in season two.) Then, Martin writes in The World of Ice and Fire:
On the seventh day, a cloud of ravens burst from the towers of Dragonstone to bring Lord Aegon’s word to the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros. To the seven kings they flew, to the Citadel of Oldtown, to lords both great and small. All carried the same message: from this day forth there would be but one king in Westeros. Those who bent the knee to Aegon of House Targaryen would keep their lands and titles. Those who took up arms against him would be thrown down, humbled, and destroyed.
Through a combination of savvy diplomacy and dragon-powered military victory, Aegon and his sisters (who were also his wives… oh, you Targaryens!) took over the continent, one kingdom at a time.
Some royal families — the Starks, Lannisters, and Arryns — agreed to give up their claims to kingship and kneel to Aegon, and were therefore left in charge of their domains. Others — the king of the Stormlands, the king of the Iron Islands, and the king of the Reach — refused to do this, so Aegon had them killed.
Among the kingdoms, only Dorne managed to successfully resist Aegon militarily. Still, he declared victory anyway, founding the city of King’s Landing at which he would rule the continent, and melting down his enemies’ swords to create the famous Iron Throne.
King Aegon was followed by a line of Targaryen kings who would rule Westeros (Dorne eventually came around) for nearly three centuries, the last of whom was Dany’s father, the Mad King Aerys.
Still, the first island the Targaryens took always remained important to them — the heir to the Targaryen king was given the title “Prince of Dragonstone.” The final Prince of Dragonstone was Dany’s older brother Rhaegar Targaryen, who was heavily implied to be Jon Snow’s secret father in the season six finale.
Robert Baratheon, Ned Stark, and company eventually deposed the Targaryen dynasty, and Mad King Aerys and Rhaegar were killed. But Aerys had sent his pregnant wife Queen Rhaella to Dragonstone beforehand, where she gave birth to Daenerys. The queen died in labor, but Daenerys and her older brother Viserys were spirited away to the eastern continent before the Baratheons finally took over the island.
We’ve seen Dragonstone several times in previous seasons of the show — as the domain of Stannis Baratheon, who ruled the island after the Baratheon takeover.
Dragonstone was first introduced as Stannis’s home base when he joined the show in season two, and the castle was the site for several scenes where he, Davos, and Melisandre would alternately strategize, mope, and burn infidels. But it always had more of a Targaryen history (hence the stone dragons everywhere).
At the end of season four, Stannis abandoned the island to go north to the Wall. But he never made it back to Dragonstone, instead being killed outside Winterfell at the end of season five. (That’s Stannis’s fiery heart banner that Dany pulls down.) And lately, the Lannisters seem to have been too busy with their various other problems to secure the island — leaving it essentially undefended for Daenerys and her invasion force.
So now, Dany hopes to follow in her famous ancestor’s footsteps, and plot her conquest in Dragonstone while sitting around Aegon’s Painted Table (which she runs her fingers across toward the end of the episode).
But Dragonstone is important for another reason: As Samwell Tarly discovers this episode, it’s a volcanic island that holds deposits of the obsidian-like substance dragonglass, one of only two materials that the series has established can kill White Walkers.
The White Walkers shatter ordinary weapons that come into contact with them and even seem unaffected by fire (which can destroy their reanimated zombie servants, but not the Walkers themselves). So fighting them will obviously be a challenge.
Back in season three, though, Sam stabbed a White Walker with a dagger made of the relatively brittle dragonglass — and the Walker swiftly disintegrated.
Jon Snow later found out that another substance, Valyrian steel, can also kill a White Walker — but since the Valyrians were all wiped out centuries ago, this material is extremely rare. (If you’re keeping count, Jon, Sam, Brienne, and the Lannisters each have a Valyrian steel sword. There’s also a Valyrian steel dagger an assassin tried to kill Bran Stark with back in season one, though its whereabouts now are unclear.)
So to effectively supply a whole army with weapons that can affect White Walkers, our heroes will need a whole lot of dragonglass. And now that Dany has taken the island of Dragonstone, she’ll be conveniently supplied with the weapons her forces will eventually need should they someday fight the White Walkers. So she’s now strongly positioned to succeed not only in her conquest of Westeros, but also in that larger conflict lurking just beyond its northern border. What could go wrong?
George Romero, the legendary director of the Night of the Living Dead trilogy and its follow-ups — widely considered the architect of the zombie genre as we know it — died Sunday at the age of 77 after a brief battle with lung cancer, according to a statement given by his producing partner to the Los Angeles Times.
According to the family, Romero died in his sleep with his wife and daughter at his side, while listening to the score of the 1952 film The Quiet Man.
Romero got his start in the movie business after being hired to shoot short films by none other than Fred Rogers, who gave a leg up to numerous actors in the Pittsburgh area through his children’s shows, including Mr. Rogers’ Neighborhood. (In a 2010 interview, Romero recalled that Rogers had not only encouraged him but had also gone to see his zombie films.) From there, Romero started his own production company and made his film debut at the age of 28 with one of the greatest horror films ever made.
Along with his co-writer John A. Russo, Romero is credited with creating and codifying the modern zombie in Living Dead. The famous 1968 horror movie was a low-budget, minimalist project that Romero produced independently with a small team comprising local Pittsburgh actors and crew members. Stark and unflinching, it was notable for featuring Duane Jones in the leading role, making him among the first black actors to be given a starring role in a film that did not explicitly call for casting an actor of color.
This casting gave Night of the Living Dead an immediately political resonance as an allegory of race relations in America, abetted by an ending that remains relevant and recurrent in horror films to this day. (The recent film Get Out is in part a sweeping homage to Living Dead, particularly in its ending.) So, too, did the grave, emaciated forms of the film’s zombies — which, though the similarity was unintentional, have long been compared to liberated Nazi concentration camp victims — and the Vietnam-like guerrilla-style combat the humans use to battle the zombies. In the 2009 documentary Nightmares in Red, White, and Blue, Romero himself stated that Living Dead was about revolution:
I thought it was about revolution ... We were ’60s guys and … sort of pissed off that the ’60s revolution didn’t work. Peace and Love didn’t solve anything in the end, in fact, shit was lookin’ worse. And I said, what would be a really earth-shattering thing that would be revolutionary and that people would refuse to ignore? The dead stop staying dead. Oh, and here’s one thing more: They like to eat living people!
Night of the Living Dead was an immediate hit, grossing an estimated $30 million worldwide on a budget of $114,000. Ten years after the film, Romero subverted, parodied, and extended his own zombie tropes through the classic Dawn of the Dead, generally considered one of the greatest horror films ever made.
In addition to giving horror the imagery of the shuffling, bumbling zombie that’s nevertheless fiendishly difficult to kill, Romero’s latter zombie films were explicitly anti-capitalist explorations of modern consumerism and nihilism in American society. Dawn of the Dead gave us the famous theme of zombies as consumerism via its shopping mall setting, and the follow-up, 1985’s Day of the Dead, explored the theme of abuse of government power, hyperviolent masculinity, and the dangers of an armed domestic military force. All of these themes have become standard parts of the language of zombie narratives, animating future zombie projects from 28 Days Later to The Walking Dead.
The Dead franchise spanned numerous remakes and offshoots, additionally inspiring the non-Romero horror comedy franchise Return of the Living Dead. Romero would go on to direct horror for the rest of his life, including other classics of the genre like 1973’s The Crazies, 1988’s Monkey Shines, and the Stephen King-scripted Creepshow in 1982. King joined numerous horror creatives and filmmakers on social media who mourned Romero’s passing.
Just heard the news about George Romero. Hard to quantify how much he inspired me & what he did for cinema. Condolences to his family. ❤️
Sad to hear my favorite collaborator--and good old friend--George Romero has died. George, there will never be another like you.
Remember George this way... pic.twitter.com/aU5rIpouTg
SAD YET SOMEHOW FITTING GEORGE ROMERO'S INFLUENCE ON STORYTELLING NOW GNAWS AT US FROM THE GRAVE - THANK YOU, MR. ROMERO AND REST IN PEACE pic.twitter.com/H9OjBcwz0c
Romero has passed away.  Hard to find words right now.  The loss is so enormous.
Others remembered the role Romero played in boosting the film industry in Pittsburgh and beyond.
So true, Kim. Sad to hear #pittsburgh has lost our local legend, George Romero :-( NOTLD profoundly changed us all, living and dead. https://t.co/Ml9SDkX89h
My first ever movie job: I was an art department intern on DAY OF THE DEAD.  I made zombie vomit for Bub.RIP George Romero, one-of-a-kind pic.twitter.com/18Vz6w5tEt
And finally, there were those who hoped that, like his famous creations, Romero would live on.
RIP to the horror master and inventor of the Zombie Apocalypse genre George Romero, unless of course he's undead. pic.twitter.com/tH0vDEWq9A
Every Sunday, we pick a new episode of the week. It could be good. It could be bad. It will always be interesting. You can read the archives here. The episode of the week for July 8 through 15 is “Pilot/Oh Hell No,” the first/second episode of Freeform’s new series The Bold Type.
In the 2000s, the most glamorous job romantic comedy heroines could aspire to was magazine writer. High-gloss movies like How To Lose a Guy in 10 Days, 13 Going on 30, and The Devil Wears Prada spotlighted the aspirations and inevitably salacious lives of stumbling writers who were plucky and determined and sometimes even ruthless. They stomped all over the competition (and some hearts) to get the prized columnist job, or cover story, or even just some basic respect in an industry that’s so often portrayed as cutthroat.
Created by Parenthood writer Sarah Watson, Freeform’s new series The Bold Type is a canny update of these rom-coms past. It stars a trio of ambitious women working in New York City at Scarlet, a fictionalized version of Cosmopolitan by way of Teen Vogue’s rebrand as the internet’s most intersectional magazine.
Jane (Katie Stevens) has just been promoted from assistant to writer but is struggling to figure out how to turn her personal life into material without crossing her own boundaries. Sutton (Meghann Fahy) is an assistant mulling her next move while trying not to fall too hard for the chiseled older board member (Sam Page) she’s secretly sleeping with. Kat (Aisha Dee) is Scarlet’s social media director, confident in everything — except, it turns out, her own sexuality.
In its first two episodes — which aired back to back on July 11 — The Bold Type shows each of its main women dreaming of something bigger, stumbling along the way, and bonding together. It even manages to throw in some sly commentary on the changing tastes and strategies of women’s magazines, with Scarlet prizing the “click gold” of spotlighting a lesbian Muslim artist just as much as a story on how to have your best orgasm.
The Bold Type is, in essence, like one of those aughts rom-coms discovered Tumblr and realized it was kinda gay. Or put another way, it’s the show teenage me desperately wanted — and one adult me is completely thrilled to have.
Here are three ways this show both upholds and subverts the magazine rom-coms from whence it came, signaling a promising season to come.
One crucial element of any good romantic comedy is to incorporate some element of fantasy for viewers to live through vicariously. For however clumsy or lonely its heroine might be, she still usually lives in an unreasonably gorgeous apartment or collides into an unreasonably gorgeous man, or, more likely, both.
The Bold Type knows this, and indulges that tradition — to a point. Jane, Sutton, and Kat get to lounge in sprawling apartments and pop champagne in Scarlet’s walk-in fashion closet, but they all have realistic problems too.
Jane desperately wants to be one of Scarlet’s most treasured voices, but the magazine’s signature candor clashes directly with her own preference to keep things close to the vest; when she’s assigned that “how to have your best orgasm” piece in the second episode, she spirals into a panic before finally admitting to her friends that she’s never had an orgasm, period.
Sutton might be sleeping with the board member’s hottest guy — and Page is very charming, a relief given that I still knee-jerk scowl at the memory of him playing Joan’s awful husband on Mad Men — but she has masses of student loans weighing down her loftier ambitions.
Kat knows exactly what she wants from her job and her friends, but her sexual life is thrown into chaos when she meets Adena (Nikohl Boosheri), the magnetic Muslim lesbian artist who can make her stomach flip with the slightest twinge of her lips.
So, yes, all three of them are living some version of their dream in Manhattan (they have a hilariously Sex and the City–era disdain for Brooklyn, the borough in which they’d almost definitely live in real life). But these characters are also struggling with more down-to-earth, complex issues than the genre that inspired them ever made room to take on.
One of the smartest moves The Bold Type makes is also one of its most surprising.
The first shot of Scarlet editor-in-chief Jacqueline (the great Melora Hardin) is a classic piece of misdirection, showing her strutting into a meeting in fire-engine-red cage heels and leather pants to lay down the law. But from there, Jacqueline doesn’t follow her rom-com predecessors who whipped their most promising employees into shape with relentless cruelty. (The Devil Wears Prada’s demanding Miranda Priestly is the most infamous example of that, but I rewatched some of How To Lose A Guy In 10 Days after I finished The Bold Type, and Bebe Neuwirth consoling an employee who hadn’t eaten since a breakup with, “Good for you! Now write about it,” might be the worst.)
Instead, Jacqueline reveals herself to be something much more interesting: a mentor. Though she’s firm with Jane as her new writer hesitates to get more personal, Jacqueline is also gentle and encouraging. She pushes Jane to do her best work while giving her real space to figure out how to do it, and smiles fondly at the memory of getting Jane’s original application, in which she called Scarlet “the big sister I never had.”
This version of an editor is a refreshing departure from the usual version, but having Jacqueline be a real mentor is also a smart interpretation of how women’s magazines are — at least outwardly — operating these days. In the 2000s, being fabulous at all costs was the goal; in the 2010s, forging some kind of sisterhood is far more on brand.
Even while I loved romantic comedies, one thing about them inevitably rang false: The women at the center of the stories were usually so focused on their work and love drama that their friendships were rarely anything more than perfunctory. The friends tended to be little more than sidekick sounding boards, standing by to throw encouragement or pithy punchlines into the mix before disappearing until it was convenient for them to return.
But The Bold Type has so far made a real effort to not just balance Jane, Kat, and Sutton’s stories but make sure they intertwine in a believable way. Each of the characters has a slightly different relationship to one another. They support, resent, and love each other more than anyone else could understand. And when, at the beginning and end of the first episode, they all stand on a New York City platform, hold hands, and scream as a train whips by, it feels exactly like the kind of friendship ritual that’s silly and moving all at once.
If The Bold Type keeps finding ways to make its characters, their friendships, and their aspirations as much compelling fun as the first couple of episodes have, it’ll make for one of the more satisfying rom-coms out there, TV show or no.
The Bold Type airs Tuesdays at 9 pm on Freeform. The first two episodes are currently available to stream on Hulu and Freeform.com.
Meet the Thirteenth Doctor #DoctorWho #Doctor13 pic.twitter.com/wycdcneZ7o
The time Doctor Who fans have waited for has come, as the BBC announced today that after this December’s traditional Christmas special, 12th Doctor Peter Capaldi is passing the torch on to the show’s 13th Doctor: Broadchurch’s Jodie Whittaker, who will officially be the first woman to take on the role.
The announcement of a new Doctor — which came out after the Wimbledon’s men final — is part of a longstanding tradition for Doctor Who fans, who see a new leading man take on the iconic role every few years or so as the Doctor regenerates into a different form. And for the past few years, fans have called for the storied franchise to cast someone — anyone — who isn’t another white man, with names like Richard Ayoade, Fleabag’s Phoebe Waller-Bridge, and even Helen Mirren being some of the favorite fantasy candidates.
Can't wait to find out if I'm Doctor Who! Fingers crossed!
But even if showrunner Steven Moffat (who is passing the show on to Chris Chibnall after Capaldi’s run is over) didn’t seem averse to the idea of a female doctor, the idea of the franchise — which has been a seminal part of television history for over half a century — casting a woman in the role still seemed unlikely.
Until today.
Whittaker might not have been the most prominent name on everyone’s radar. Nevertheless, the actor — known for Broadchurch, Attack the Block, and Black Mirror — has nonetheless arrived to subvert a 54-year-old tradition of the legendary Doctor being a man. Even just a quick glance at the replies to the announcement makes clear that giving the Doctor a female form will be a controversial choice to some, even though the entire point of the Doctor is that the character is a thousand-year-old alien who’s free to take on any form it chooses.
This time, it seems, the Doctor has had quite enough of British men for an unusually long lifetime, leaving room for Whittaker to interpret the story in a way that’s never been done before.
Game of Thrones season seven is finally, finally upon us. And after a longer-than-usual wait between seasons — plus the end of the entire series now in sight — fan anticipation has perhaps reached an all-time high. So what better way to celebrate Sunday’s season seven premiere than by playing a rousing round of Game of Thrones Bingo while you watch? That’s where our handy season seven Bingo cards come in.
Related
If you don’t like your card, hit the “new card” button until you’re satisfied. You can play right on your screen: every time something on your card happens during the telecast, click on the corresponding square. Close your browser or refresh the page if you like — we'll continue to save your squares (though this might not work if you're browsing in incognito mode). You can also print out your cards and play the old-school way.
Good luck!

Since it was announced that a new film adaptation of Madeleine L’Engle’s A Wrinkle In Time would be helmed by none other than Selma’s Ava DuVernay, it’s been a treat trying to imagine what the movie might be like.
Anticipation steadily grew as DuVernay and cast members like Reese Witherspoon, Mindy Kaling, and even Oprah Winfrey released teases of the film’s beautiful New Zealand shooting locations and sang the praises of new star Storm Reid. Now we finally have a real look at the movie — coming out in March 2018 — with the first trailer, released at the D23 Expo.
The trailer dives into one of literature’s most seminal and surreal science fiction stories, following Meg (Reid) as she defies the laws of space and time in order to find her father (played by Chris Pine), a brilliant scientist who caught the attention of some seriously nefarious forces. We also get glimpses of Witherspoon as “Mrs. Whatsit,” Kaling as “Mrs. Who,” and Oprah as “Mrs. Which.”
With A Wrinkle In Time, DuVernay officially became the first African-American woman to direct a movie with a budget over $100 million — and by the looks of this trailer, she’s going to make every dollar count.
A Wrinkle in Time will be released nationwide on March 9, 2018.
The ever-growing glut of great new TV, movies, books, music, comics, and podcasts can be a lot to keep up with. So we here at Vox Culture — where our current obsessions include two of the summer’s best movies so far, an under-the-radar new Netflix release, and lots of excellent new music — have a few suggestions for how to make the best use of your pop culture–consuming time.
Here are some items you should really consider checking out.
It seemed like such a bad idea at the time. Revive the Planet of the Apes franchise? When Tim Burton’s 2001 reimagining had been so awful? Yet 2011’s Rise of the Planet of the Apes was a bracing return to the idea of an Earth run by talking apes, this time with the apes at the center from the get-go. (The original five-film run of the ‘60s and ‘70s had gotten there eventually, but only after letting humans rant about those damn dirty apes for a while.)
Related
2014’s Dawn of the Planet of the Apes was even better, bringing Matt Reeves (one of our best blockbuster directors) to the franchise. And now, War for the Planet of the Apes, out everywhere this weekend, is the best film in this trilogy, capping it with a fitting conclusion — while leaving plenty of room open for future films, should Fox feel the need. These are beautifully made movies about the need for political revolution, the difficulty of building societies, and the endlessly warping nature of prejudice. Each of the three is standalone enough that you can jump in uninitiated, but they also fit together beautifully as a saga. Oh, and they have apes armed with machine guns, too, so it’s not all heady academia fodder. —Todd VanDerWerff
Netflix’s Castlevania is based on the popular Nintendo video game series that so many of today’s 30-somethings remember fondly from their youth. (It launched in the 1980s but released its most recent title in 2014.) That original game was extremely difficult, but the four-episode first season of the Netflix adaptation is a little more accessible: Dracula isn’t a big fan of humans, and has unleashed his night horde of vampires to inflict bloody, bloody death upon them. The only thing standing between humans and extinction is a sardonic demon hunter named Trevor Belmont, one fabulous fur coat, and Belmont’s trusty whip. —Alex Abad-Santos
Patient Spider-Man fans have been waiting 10 years for a story that’s worthy of the character’s legacy — one that’s as much about the heart and soul of its hero as it is about slinging and swinging through the city sky. And with Spider-Man: Homecoming, which brings Marvel Studios back into the Spider-Man fold as a co-producer with Sony, that story has finally arrived.
Related
Tom Holland is the best Spider-Man ever, the action scenes are fantastic, there are lots of fun Easter eggs for diehard fans, and most importantly of all, the movie gets Peter Parker’s coming of age story exactly right. Welcome home, Spidey. —AAS
Finally, Haim has seen fit to bless us with a new album! The trio of California sisters instantly became a sensation with their 2013 debut Days Are Gone, thanks to their electric chemistry and seriously sharp interpretations of sounds that bands like Fleetwood Mac and Wilson Phillips made famous. Something To Tell You doesn't stray too far from what Haim proved they could do the first time around, but it's even more confident, making clear how thrilled they are to just get together and create the kind of rock music that makes belting out their songs on a humid summer night so much fun. —Caroline Framke
Sofia Coppola’s latest film The Beguiled premiered to acclaim at the Cannes Film Festival. But as approached its June 23 release date, controversy emerged over the way the movie omits an enslaved character who’s present in the novel it’s based on, possibly glossing over the history of racial oppression in the Civil War-era South it depicts. This week, critic Angela Jade Bastien — who’s not a Coppola fan — wrote an insightful piece for Vulture about how The Beguiled tackles race even though all of its characters are white. “Her memory isn’t historically honest,” Bastien concludes, “but it is a white fairy tale that deserves to be examined closely.” —Alissa Wilkinson
The second I started listening to Dua Lipa's neon pop, I couldn't stop — and when she released the video for "New Rules" last week, my obsession reached critical levels. Not only is the song catchy as hell, but the video is creative and frankly mesmerizing, as Dua Lipa and a throng of supportive women dance out their feelings in a tropical Miami hotel and remind each other that fuckboys don't deserve them. Good luck getting this one out of your head! —CF
Jon Bois (of Vox’s sister site, SB Nation) is one of the internet’s finest writers and/or mad scientists. His “Breaking Madden” series experimented with the internal settings of America’s most popular football video game, creating nightmare hellscapes from which the digital players could not escape. And his YouTube series Pretty Good tells engaging stories in a format that’s equal parts Ken Burns and indie comics.
But his latest creation, semi-serialized “17776,” might be his best work yet. All I’ll say is that it’s a story about what football might look like in the titular year. But it’s also really not about that, because it also concerns the human capacity for reinvention and mortality and the endless gulf of time that we (currently) only occupy a brief speck of.
The series wraps up this weekend, but part of the fun has been anticipating each new chapter. Binge what’s there, then join the rest of us in waiting for the conclusion to arrive. —Todd VanDerWerff
Demi Lovato latest opens with fighting words, as she declares that she’s “out here looking like revenge” while you’re “out here looking like regret.” The song, which the singer has called “an anthem for anyone who's ever been hated on and has risen above it and come out from the other side like a fucking savage!" is a blunt response to “haters” after her nearly year-long hiatus from social media and music-making. But it’s also a perfect mix of angry power ballad and catchy summer tune, and a good reason to want her to stick around. —Aja Romano
It may have seemed hard to beat the absurdity of 7 Days in Hell, the HBO tennis mockumentary that, among other absurd scenes, included a two-minute digression into Swedish courtroom sketches, but Andy Samberg’s Tour de Pharmacy is even more of a screwball masterpiece. With Orlando Bloom, John Cena (trying out a ludicrous Austrian accent that works far better than it has any right to), Daveed Diggs, and Freddie Highmore in tow, Samberg’s send-up of the Tour de France — now streaming on HBO Go — and doping-related sports corruption is further proof that he’s clearly found the perfect medium for his bizarre brand of comedy. —Grant Rindner
Seven years after Forgiveness Rock Record, Canada’s Broken Social Scene has gifted us with a new album that’s full of gorgeous, intricate indie rock buoyed by an appropriately rebellious spirit. Hug of Thunder is sweeping and varied, with highlights ranging from the intimate “Please Take Me With You,” a confessional ballad underscored by doleful synths, to “Protest Song,” which manages to be both inspiring and exasperated (“We're just the latest in the longest rank and file list / Ever to exist in the history of the protest song”). 2017 has produced a handful of quality alternative records, but Broken Social Scene’s latest may well be the most captivating of the bunch. —GR
Game of Thrones anticipation has reached a fever pitch with the show’s looming return this Sunday. But given the longer-than-usual wait between seasons, combined with an explosive sixth-season finale event that overshadowed everything else around it, it’s understandable if you can’t remember the exact whereabouts of every one of the series’ sprawling cast leading into the new season.
While the action in season seven seems destined to come to a head at King’s Landing and the Wall, as the Thrones universe has expanded to include not only Westeros but Essos, the key players have been scattered to the winds. To fully understand the convergence that appears to lie ahead in the new season, it’s helpful to review where our players have been, and where they’re headed.
With that in mind, here’s where everyone from Daenerys to Daario Naharis was last spotted. Needless to say, spoilers for season six of Game of Thrones lie ahead.
Thanks to his impressive and unlikely victory over Ramsey Bolton, and some terrific speechifying from Lyanna Mormont (serves the lords of the North right for refusing the call), Jon Snow has been named King in the North. Now he’s rallying the beleaguered Northern forces to prepare not only for a potential move on the Lannisters, but also the coldest winter in 1,000 years, which has the potential to make all of the squabbling over the Iron Throne seem pretty inconsequential in the long run.
By Jon’s side is Sansa Stark, who deserves a fair share of credit for the Battle of the Bastards victory after persuading Petyr Baelish to bring the knights of the Vale up north for an eleventh-hour rescue of the surrounded Northern forces. The questions now are how she’ll react to her illegitimate brother ruling Winterfell, especially after they clashed in the days leading up to the battle, and if she’ll conspire further with Baelish, who currently wields considerable power within House Arryn and still aspires to sit on the Iron Throne with Sansa by his side.
Also in Winterfell, Davos Seaworth figures to be a loyal bannerman for Snow after he banished Melisandre, who was last seen riding south. Tormund Giantsbane remains with the Starks, too, though more likely than not he’s just biding his time until Brienne returns.
HBO
Slightly further north, Bran Stark was last seen blowing our collective minds (and confirming one of the show’s long-held theories) by warging to the Tower of Joy and learning that Jon Snow is in fact the son of Rhaegar Targaryen and Lyanna Stark. He figures to be heading toward Winterfell with Meera Reed, though after being marked by the Night King and ruining the magical protection on the Children of the Forest’s cave, it’s unclear if Bran passing through the wall is in the best interest for everyone else in Westeros.
After smoking the Tyrells (minus Olenna, who we’ll get to later), the High Sparrow, and a sizable chunk of Westeros’ noble population, Cersei Lannister now rules the Seven Kingdoms. Though shaken by her son Tommen’s suicide, she was able to have a little sadistic fun with Septa Unella in a scene that would make even the most righteous Thrones fans crack a wicked smile. She’s aided by the reanimated Gregor “The Mountain” Clegane, who ranks only behind the Night King in the series’ pantheon of terrifying blue people.
Meanwhile, after staging a successful siege on Riverrun, Jaime Lannister returned to King’s Landing, took one look at his sister/lover sitting on the throne, and understood as well as the rest of us just how twisted things have gotten. Bronn is also back in the capital, and he’ll surely have some eloquent thoughts to share with Jaime about his sister’s murderous power play.
With her entire lineage vanquished in the great green blaze at the Sept of Baelor, Olenna Tyrell headed to Dorne for a meeting with Ellaria Sand (and the opportunity to roast each of the Sand Snakes with her razor wit). She’s no longer after survival, simply vengeance, so while it’s fair to wonder if she makes it to the show’s end, it’s clear she intends to make her wrath felt, likely by partnering with Daenerys and company.
While ice descends from the north, fire is moving rapidly across the Narrow Sea, with the Iron Throne in its sights. After six seasons building up her army, Daenerys Targaryen is making her way west with a jaw-dropping mix of brains and brawn (oh, and fully grown, CGI-budget-draining dragons) at her side. Having partnered with Yara and Theon Greyjoy, as well as a considerable portion of their iron-born loyalists, she has quite the impressive fleet at her disposal, not to mention her own army of Unsullied soldiers.
Along for the ride are Tyrion Lannister, Grey Worm, Missandei, and Varys, whose speedy travel from Dorne to Daenerys’s side has some fans thinking he may actually be a merman.
Plus, let’s not forget that Gendry (the last Westerosi with Baratheon blood), was last spotted rowing away from Dragonstone and Melisandre’s clutches at the end of season three. Rumors have swirled that the character may be returning, though he’ll likely be somewhere other than Blackwater Bay. That is, unless some theories are correct and he’s just been rowing around getting jacked.
After surreptitiously returning to the Iron Islands, tossing his brother Balon from a bridge, and swooping in to win the Kingsmoot over Yara, Euron Greyjoy is primed to become Game of Thrones’ newest and scummiest villain. He’s pursuing Theon and Yara (and Daenerys, albeit in a slightly different context), and while it would be fun to watch him be dispatched in a single bite by one of Daenerys’ dragons (as our critic Todd VanDerWerff suggested), the stage seems set for a massive sea battle — once Euron finishes rebuilding the fleet of ships Yara took off with.
Having mastered the art of face-changing (though exactly how is still a little murky) Arya Stark popped back up in Westeros and gave Walder Frey his just desserts for orchestrating the Red Wedding, feeding him his ground-up sons (Black Walder and Lothar), and then slitting his throat. Arya seems poised to head back to Winterfell (perhaps even encountering her long-lost Direwolf Nymeria along the way), where her stealth assassin skills will surely come in handy for the rest of her family.
Now partnered up with the Brotherhood Without Banners, Sandor “The Hound” Clegane is headed north with the intention of helping fight the White Walkers. It’s likely to be a losing battle, but perhaps we’ll get the heartwarming Hound-Arya reunion we so badly want.
Brienne of Tarth was last seen sharing a loaded glance with Jaime as she and Podrick escaped following the siege of Riverrun. It’s likely they’ll head north and return to Sansa’s side, to the inevitable excitement of Tormund.
Last seen confessing his love (and showing off his greyscale) to Daenerys, Jorah Mormont departed the Dothraki city in search of a cure. It’s unclear exactly where he’s headed, though one distinct possibility is for him to seek out Quaithe, the masked healer residing in Quarth with whom he interacted earlier in the series, and who seems to have magical abilities.
Out of everyone aligned with the Mother of Dragons, Daario Naharis gets the short end of the stick. On Tyrion’s suggestion, Daenerys ends their tryst and leaves him to help keep the peace in Meereen while a new government is installed.
GoT’s resident teddy bear turned White Walker-slaying badass Samwell Tarly finally reached the Citadel and has begun studying to become a maester. It’s still unclear exactly how Sam’s studies factor into the bigger picture on Game of Thrones, but it’s a safe assumption that something in that vast library will be essential in the upcoming war.
This week, Courtney Maum — author of I am Having So Much Fun Here Without You and Touch — answers our questions.
What’s the first piece of media you consume every day?
For a while, it’s been Instagram. I’m relatively new to Instagram — I joined this spring, so it was fun for a while to wake to friends’ hard-won vacations and adorable kids. But you know what I did pre-Instagram? I reached for a book. So I’ve been making a conscious effort to read fiction in the morning, from a printed book, again. In a perfect world, I would choose my marriage over social media for wake-up entertainment. My husband is a dyed-in-the-wool morning Instagrammer too. But I remember before social media took over, we used to do these insane things in the morning, like talk.
Name a writer or publication you disagree with but still read.
Right now it’s Facebook. It’s revolutionized the way we socialize, and for that, it deserves a huge amount of respect and credit. But I’m not convinced that it’s the social model we need right now. It’s so interesting watching the social networking outlets that succeed, as well as the ones that don’t. Like Ello, for example, which was poised to offer a hipper, less corporate, and kind of weird online social experience for Generation Y. Ello tried to humanize the experience of maintaining friendships digitally. You weren’t going to be talked at, given the chance to like or not like something a friend said.
Facebook is pretty exhausting now, isn’t it? It constantly feels like our friends are running for an office of some kind. We’ve all become our own PR firms. The problem with Facebook is that it isn’t strange. Ello was strange. Ello wanted to echo the weirdness of human interaction. But maybe only face-to-face interaction can capture the beautiful weirdness of real life.
Who is the person who has most influenced the way you think?
In terms of literature, the British writer Martin Amis and the French writer Michel Houellebecq have been buttressing my love for unlikable narrators, dark humor, accessible literary fiction, and satire for years. But on a personal level, the person who has most changed my thinking recently is my polo coach, Alison Patricelli. I made the unusual decision of trying to learn polo at the age of 38.
It’s a dangerous sport, but it’s made even more dangerous if you’re prone to negativity spirals, as I — unfortunately — am. At my first mistake, I’d think: Why am I doing this? I’m going to fall, I’m no good, I’m making a fool of myself, etc. Alison literally shouts a mantra at me during our coached matches: BELIEVE! She’s really helped me approach different life experiences from a place of joy and optimism.
When was the last time you changed your mind about something?
Last week. This is a superficial answer, but after being on the “Rosé All Day” team for years, I’m now “Rosé No Way.” Yes, the wine is a beautiful color, it’s pretty, and it’s festive, but it’s just not good. It’s not.
What’s your worst intellectual habit?
I’m too quick to jump to a negative conclusion. For example, if I’ve had a book come out recently and I’m with a friend who doesn’t mention it, instead of thinking, “This person hasn’t mentioned my book because they’re busy and haven’t had time to purchase it, much less read it, and that doesn’t mean that they don’t like me,” I will go to, “This person doesn’t care about me,” which is such a terrible, self-centered way to think. People really are busy and their world doesn’t stop just because I’ve published a novel.
Something else I’ve realized after publishing for a while is that people don’t know how to talk to the creator of something they’ve consumed. Whether it’s a movie, a novel, or a piece of art, many Americans find it really difficult — perhaps even impolite — to comment on someone’s creative work. Unless you’re my mother’s friend Ellen, who has no problem telling me she preferred my second book over my first.
What inspires you to learn?
Fear, apparently. I like to be challenged. I like creating narrative and physical situations in which I must be brave. Also, the desire to travel as more than a tourist. I like to work toward a future where I can engage in deeply immersive and even bizarre cultural experiences, the kinds of exchanges you can’t have unless you put some serious elbow grease into your trip planning. That’s why I’m trying to learn Spanish. I fantasize about living in Mexico City, so I am preparing myself for that fantasy, in case it ever comes to pass.
What do you need to believe in order to get through the day?
That I will make something shareable and enjoyable out of the godawful, tea-stained cacophony of handwritten notes all over my desk.
What’s a view that you hold but can’t defend?
Cheese tastes better without crackers.
What book have you recommended the most?
Alexandria Marzano-Lesnevich’s “The Fact of a Body” and Gabe Habash’s “Stephen Florida.”
You can read last week’s edition of 9 Questions with Eddie Glaude Jr. here.
Famous for chopping off a piece of his ear in a fit and delivering it to a woman in a brothel, Vincent van Gogh had a life marked by ailing mental health and the eye-catching paintings he created during that time.
Van Gogh was born on March 30, 1853, in the village of Zundert in the Netherlands. He created some of his most well-known paintings, such as The Starry Night and Cafe at Night, within a two-year period before his death in July 1890. The fields he painted in Wheat Field With Crows in June were a depiction of the same location where he shot himself in the chest a month later. During his lifetime, his work had little to no value in the art world. But a century later, the first version of his Portrait of Dr. Gachet sold for $82.5 million in 1990 (around $159 million today).
Vincent van Gogh lived a short and destitute life, but he created some of the most revered paintings of our time. Watch the video above to find out more about his travels and the works he created along the way.
You know that group of friends who are so impressed with themselves that their inside jokes spawn inside jokes of their own, making it impossible for anyone else to penetrate their bubble of self-perpetuating delusion? Well, how would you like to spend an entire TV series with them? And before you answer, please bear in mind that in this scenario, the group of friends in question met at Harvard, and will be sure to remind you of that fact on a near-constant basis.
Welcome to Friends From College, Netflix’s newest comedy and a near-total misfire.
Rating
There’s a lot to be frustrated about with this show, which comes from co-creators (and married couple) Nicholas Stoller (Neighbors) and Francesca Delbanco. It stars the charismatic likes of Keegan-Michael Key and Cobie Smulders as two of the friends who met in college, and now, 20 years later, they and the rest of their friends are all in New York City figuring out their upper-middle-class shit together. The show’s talent bench is deep, but watching frustrated author Ethan (Key), frustrated lawyer Lisa (Smulders), frustrated designer Sam (Annie Parisse), frustrated artist Marianne (Jae Suh Park), frustrated literary agent Max (Fred Savage), and frustrated trust fund kid Nick (Nat Faxon) mess up through the series’ eight episodes is far more taxing than it is entertaining.
In the end, the most damning reason Friends From College fails is also the simplest: It’s not nearly as much fun to spend time with these characters as either they or their creators think. Sometimes the show realizes this, and is marginally better for it. But most of the time, watching Friends From College just means watching unpleasant people do unpleasant things for no reason other than the sake of doing them.
Comedies have always picked apart the neuroses of people behaving badly. But the great ones either find a way to own the bad behavior in question (Seinfeld) or dig into why those people do the things they do (FXX’s You’re the Worst). Friends From College does neither, instead letting its characters stumble along in selfish pursuit of whatever they want, without ever expressing an interest in what their motivations are or who they might be as people.
One of the best examples of this problem is the ongoing affair between Ethan and Sam. Both are married to other people, but they’ve been drawn to each other and sleeping together on and off for years, ever since they first fell for each other as 19-year-olds in a Harvard dorm. Ethan and Sam know they’re being deceptive and awful to their spouses — especially since Ethan is married to Lisa (Smulders), a younger friend from college — but that doesn’t stop them from tearing each other’s clothes off in hotel rooms and creating excuses to get “the friend group” together in order to see each other.
But it’s not the simple fact of their affair that makes Ethan and Sam hard to root for; it’s the fact that they make no sense.
Half the time, Ethan is completely devoted to Lisa and her quest to have a baby — though he seems indifferent about parenthood — through thick and thin and painful IVF cycles. The other half of the time, he’s begging Sam to make more time for him and brushing off concerns that he might, y’know, be treating his wife like shit. A more nuanced show could’ve probably find a way to make this conflict interesting, but Friends From College thinks that just throwing characters into messy situations is enough.
The problem with this approach is fairly straightforward: Two-dimensional characters trying to deal with three-dimensional situations is never going to be interesting, no matter how much they try to tell you otherwise.
The most depressing thing about Friends From College is that it managed to snag a stacked roster of actors who, given better material and more specific direction, could have made something special. Key throws his whole self into portraying Ethan, no matter how nonsensical the character’s actions tend to be; Parisse can be truly ferocious when she digs into Sam’s brittle rage. Smulders is a particular standout, giving Lisa real depth and vulnerability, even when the script forgets that she’s a living, breathing person (which is most of the time). And as Max’s long-suffering boyfriend Felix, comedian Billy Eichner provides a much-needed dose of exasperation in the face of his partner’s hyperactive collegiate past coming to roost during their date nights.
But as it stands, Friends From College is mostly limited to indulging its characters’ worst traits without offering any nuanced commentary to speak of. Worse, it can’t make up its mind on whether or not it has enough self-awareness to acknowledge that its characters are terrible humans, so everything ends up feeling random rather than logically motivated — and again, almost everything every character does on this show is entirely selfish, whether they know it or not.
Whenever they’re not busy being self-absorbed, the Friends From College spin their wheels in gorgeous lofts, at black-tie events, and on wine-tasting party buses — always without any indication that they’re learning a damn thing or growing at all. So when Felix finally snaps halfway through the season and tells Max how pathetic it is that Max’s entire college group is stuck in arrested development, it’s not exactly the bruising moment of truth the show wants it to be. However, the scene still has value, because it’s just such a relief to know that someone else sees the Friends From College for what they really are.
Friends From College is now available to stream on Netflix.
This was a big week for high-profile internet moments. Kim Kardashian’s Instagrammed coffee table went viral and caused more debate than anything since The Dress. Kid Rock briefly stole a few seconds’ worth of fame to tease his potential entry into politics. And Beyoncé broke the entire internet by releasing the first official picture of twins Sir Carter and Rumi, prompting a debate over what Sir Carter’s full name actually is more heated than anything we’d seen since Kardashian’s coffee table.
Meanwhile, President Trump is facing a lawsuit over blocking people on Twitter, and net neutrality is battling for its survival.
Here are some other highlights you may have missed online this week.
Twitter user Brandon Wardell has the distinction of inventing the “I’m the Sheriff” meme one boring day in June, when he came up with this glorious combination of emoji humor and ASCII-inspired jokes:
⠀ ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀         　　　　　   　　　　  　 　 　　　  　    　  　　　　　 　   　　　　　 　　 　　　　　  　　  howdy. im the sheriff of suckin u off. im gon suck u off
It took a while, but the meme slowly caught on and built up steam, peaking over the past couple of weeks.
⠀ ⠀ ⠀ ⠀ 　      　 　 　   　  　    　   　  　    　  　           howdy. im the sheriff of nutrition.eat your fucking greens
⠀ ⠀⠀⠀    　       　                　             　          　             　　 　　  howdy. im the sheriff of socialism.
⠀ ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀        　　　　      　　　   　  　  　　   　      　  　　　　  　    　　　　  　　  　　　　  　　  howdy! i'm the sheriff of stealing ur native lands
⠀ ⠀ ⠀  　               　    　   　 　    　  　           howdy. i'm the sheriff of the bees.save the fucking bees.
As tends to happen with burgeoning Twitter trends, some internet companies got in on the action — which for some reason prompted Pornhub to defend Wardell as the only sheriff of the “I’m the sheriff” meme:
living in the future is weird pic.twitter.com/BvNGnp9LKW
Despite Pornhub’s best efforts, the meme spread on.
⠀ ⠀ ⠀   　             　 　    　   　  　     　   　           howdy. i'm the climate change sheriff. you're all going to die
It also proved transferrable to all kinds of jokes, like this Kamen Rider variant:
TA-TO-BA TATOBA TA-TO-BA           V
With all that said, if encoding woes have barred you from participating in the meme, never fear:
i'm the sheriff of having an android ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀ ☐　　☐☐☐　☐ 　☐　☐☐　☐☐☐　☐　　☐　  ☐　  ☐　　☐　  ☐　 　☐
Photobucket, one of the internet’s most longstanding image repositories, recently shocked its users by quietly changing its terms of service without announcing that it would begin charging $400 per year to allow users to hotlink their images, preventing people from easily embedding the images they’ve uploaded to Photobucket on other websites. Though the term is nearly archaic now, in earlier internet times, when images were big and server load capacity was small, hotlinking was a big deal; Photobucket was among the crucial free web storage systems that allowed you to freely upload and share images wherever you liked.
The result is that the internet’s “Web 2.0” middle period — which began sometime around 2003, when Photobucket was founded, and ran through 2008 or so, when social media took off — was dominated by sites and blog posts built around Photobucket images. But now Photobucket has blocked these images from appearing, which effectively decimates the internet’s archive of those middle years.
The change at Photobucket comes just as SoundCloud has announced massive layoffs, reportedly telling staff that it currently only has enough money to stay in business another quarter. Though SoundCloud has insisted that it’s going to be fine for the long term and that its users’ data is safe, the warning has given everyone time to prepare for the worst-case scenario.
No matter the outcome, though, in concert with the Photobucket news, SoundCloud’s fate could pose another huge threat to longstanding, beloved internet archives — a stark reminder that while the internet may be forever, it’s only as permanent as the servers in which we trust.
Twitter user @shelzhang went viral this week with a threaded rundown of an unnamed friend’s hilarious journey through the realization that he’d been reading an epic work of fanfiction rather than Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix.
Friend is reading Harry Potter for the first time. He suddenly realizes he's read a fanfiction Order of the Phoenix instead of the real one. pic.twitter.com/tKNgT6usi6
The work of Harry Potter fanfiction in question seems to be Harry Potter and the Psychic Serpent trilogy by Barb, a famous early fanfic trilogy (here’s part 1, part 2, and part 3) that’s been regarded as a fandom classic since it was first posted in 2001. Among the major differences between Barb’s version and J.K. Rowling’s: Draco and Ginny fall in love, and Harry learns to respect and bond with Voldemort.
I had to burst his bubble about Ginny and Draco, unfortunately. pic.twitter.com/DKKdC5jdA4
Sounds like a tale every Slytherin will love.
By all verifiable accounts, the mysterious Blue Whale challenge is a viral urban myth about a self-harm meme. The meme, which is rumored to have originated in Russia and Eastern Europe, allegedly takes the form of a game that challenges players to follow a 50-step set of instructions designed to draw them into a web of self-harm, depression, and ultimately suicide.
Public alarm over the game has been building gradually since it first gained attention early this year. Now multiple media outlets are reporting that the game has claimed a life. According to the family of 15-year-old Isaiah Gonzalez, he was playing the game when he died by suicide on July 8; he allegedly broadcast his death on the internet.
However, police have yet to confirm that the teen’s suicide was connected to the challenge, and the hysteria surrounding it has prompted the San Jose Mercury News to frustratedly urge caution among the media and the public when reporting and describing the game as though it were real. Additionally, the Cyberbullying Research Center has yet to validate the existence of the challenge or any deaths related to it, and points out that most of the initial international reports of the game were from murkily translated and unreliable sources.
In other words, while parents should always monitor what their teenagers are doing on the internet, they probably don’t need to fear the unknown horror of a suicide meme coming for their children.
If Google’s most recent AI development is any indication, the coming robot revolution is going to be impressive and kind of hilarious. Scientists at Google’s DeepMind project tasked three AI models — one a hot dog figure with two legs, one a spider-like creature with four, and one a rather floppy sort of human — with navigating various types of terrain. The AIs were ordered to advance from point A to point B and given virtual sensors to help them reach their destination. But when it came to instructions for how to actually get from point A to point B, the models were on their own.
The results include a lot of jerky movements and arm flailing — but they’re also pretty amazing to watch. Through a process of feeling out their virtual surroundings, experimenting with different movements, and learning, the AIs gradually came up with the concept of “walking” on their own and taught themselves how to do it.
The humanoid model is especially wonderful to observe, as it seems to be invigorated with a kind of gusto over its own ability to continually not run into things or fall down. Or maybe that’s just a side effect of all the wild arm pumping.
Then again, who among us hasn’t felt like a confused droid tasked with running an unseen obstacle course? Some may call it the impending Singularity; others may call it a metaphor for life.
Welcome to the weekly Vox book link roundup, a curated selection of the best writing online about books and related topics. Here’s the best the internet has to offer for the week of July 9, 2017.
Once you notice that stillborn child, you begin to sense the specter of mortality ranging over Austen’s work — as evocative in her world, perhaps, as mortality itself.
When the couple asked where I was going, and I told them, they said, Sifnos is not as famous, just like that. They then told me a story about how it was known for its gold and silver mines, but after the islanders angered Apollo by sending him tribute made from gold plate, he flooded the mines. I imagined Apollo biting the tribute to see if it was real gold, and wondered if it was now famous for not being famous — some last affliction from the sun god.
I read “If You Sing Like That for Me” now and I find myself jumping out of my skin. After each paragraph, I have to get up from my desk and pace around. Talking about the story, my tone becomes contemptuous. It is strange to think that, to readers, this story means nothing like what it means to me. It is strange, also, to think that I created Anita because I was at one time in love with X, and that while the sympathy I extended to my fictional character was worthwhile, the person who motivated it was arguably undeserving of the same.
Petrified is too static a word to describe the panic losing my novel sent me spiraling into. I thought my world would end if I lost that book, that it'd be like losing a life, the life I aspired to. I'd already spent years and written two unpublished novels to get to the point where I could create that book. That manuscript wasn't just a novel to me; it was the key to an entirely new reality, to my future.
When a publisher agrees to buy the (future) manuscript, they offer an advance — often around $100,000 to $200,000 for a first-time chef-author — that’s paid out in installments. Money gets dropped when the chef signs, the manuscript is delivered, the book arrives in stores, and one year after its release. $125,000 isn’t a lot of money when it’s spread out over several years, and it seems like even less when you consider that chefs are responsible for paying to put the book together. Fischer says he paid his photographer $35,000, co-writer $30,000, designer $30,000, and bankrolled the recipe-testing and travel himself. Not only did he fail to profit, but he ended up spending more than his advance. “The hope,” says agent Monika Woods, “is that most of the money comes on signing and delivery, because the budget of a cookbook is crazy, and the chef and their teams usually have to bear the brunt of that.”
I asked for the Virginia Woolf room. I was told there’d be a cat and no Wi-Fi. I am allergic to cats and addicted to the internet, but I figured some time without a screen could do me good. The website promised I would have the chance to “[u]nplug, unwind, and sleep with [my] favorite author.” No, no, no. “I do not want to sleep with Virginia Woolf,” I thought on my drive to the hotel. I imagine she was a fitful sleeper. She probably had sleep apnea. Also, she’s dead. Dead people, by and large, make poor bedfellows.
It is not enough to merely write queers in comfortable bourgeois captivity. You have not conquered some artistic challenge. You are not artistically pure for turning away from queer suffering. Our comfort and our agony are of a piece. They reflect one another across the length of our experience.
Happy reading!
There are two credits scenes at the end of Spider-Man: Homecoming. One might figure into future Marvel films, while the other is nothing more than a playful — but worthwhile — joke.
Mid- and post-credits scenes have become a Marvel tradition, something fans look forward to every time the company releases a new film. Sometimes they contain huge reveals that hint at future movies (see: Black Panther at the end of Captain America: Civil War). Other times, they serve as little winks from Marvel to its biggest fans, and call back to the company's history (see: Howard the Duck at the end of the first Guardians of the Galaxy). They're fun. They can be exciting. And if we're lucky, they give us something to chew on until the studio’s next big release.
Here's what happens in Homecoming’s two credits scenes, and how the scenes are significant to both Spider-Man’s and Marvel’s future stories.
The first scene, which airs in the middle of the credits, functions more like an epilogue to the movie. We flash-forward to sometime in the near future, and Adrian Toomes, a.k.a. Vulture (Michael Keaton), is in prison. He’s walking around, and is confronted by a former associate (who has a scorpion tattoo and could possibly turn out to be the villain known as Scorpion in a future movie) who wants to know Spider-Man’s identity. The man tells Toomes that he’s heard Toomes knows who Spider-Man is.
Toomes does indeed know that Peter Parker is Spider-Man (in the film, he figures it out in the third act), but he pretends otherwise. He flashes a sinister little look before the scene cuts out — possibly setting up the character’s return in a future Marvel film.
The scene hints that Toomes wants to take on Spider-Man himself, which makes sense considering how much Homecoming does to map out Toomes’s moral code. At one point in the film, he passes up a chance to kill Peter/Spider-Man because Peter previously saved his daughter’s life. And later on in the film, Peter saves Toomes’s life too.
Homecoming’s first credits scene signals that Toomes is doing Peter Parker a favor by not outing him, which would put all kinds of villains on his trail. But it also reveals that Toomes wants to handle Peter Parker himself.
Throughout the film, Captain America is used as a comedic prop. He appears in taped informational messages (like a PSA aimed at kids) that the teachers at Peter Parker’s high school play for their students, to teach them to be better citizens (one of the taped messages is about detention).
Homecoming’s second credits scene plays off these messages, giving us one final dispatch in which Captain America speaks about the value and virtue of patience. He addresses the audience directly and talks about how patience is necessary, while also noting that it isn’t always rewarded. He explains that sometimes, people end up waiting for a long time for something and it isn’t what they wanted or expected — just like this credits scene.
Because of Marvel’s long tradition of tease-heavy credits scenes, many fans may have expected to see something big or bold in Homecoming’s credits scenes — possibly a hint at the fallout from Captain America: Civil War. Instead, Marvel served up this silly nothingburger, with a knowing wink. The scene cuts out, before a title card announces that Spider-Man will return to the big screen with a new film slated for 2019 (no solid date has been set yet).
Kid Rock launched a website on Wednesday that suggests the musician and Donald Trump supporter is mulling a bid for a Michigan senatorial seat. Kid Rock For Senate immediately went viral, and sparked debate over whether the site is an attempt to gauge interest in a real political run, or just an instance of viral marketing.
Rock, whose real name is Robert Ritchie, added to the confusion with a tweet affirming that the website — though not necessarily the senatorial bid — is real.
I have had a ton of emails and texts asking me if this website is real… https://t.co/RRVgISDFeq The answer is an absolute YES. pic.twitter.com/uYCUg6mjW1
Most skeptics are assuming the website is a viral marketing campaign for an upcoming Kid Rock album, rather than the beginnings of an actual political campaign. The Kid Rock for Senate landing page is hosted on Rock’s commercial Warner Brothers Records artist website, where, in addition to a small selection of “Kid Rock for Senate” apparel and yard signs, he’s also selling more traditional fan merchandise (including this controversial pro-Trump T-shirt).
Additionally — and more importantly — the musician has reportedly not filed any paperwork with the Federal Election Commission suggesting that he actually intends to run for office.
KID ROCK HAS NOT FILED ANY PAPERWORK AT THE FEC
Still, this isn’t the first time Rock has made political overtures. Though he has no actual political experience, he’s a self-defined “Republican on certain issues” who previously campaigned for Mitt Romney in 2012 and supported Ben Carson before backing Donald Trump in Michigan’s 2016 Republican primary. He also performed at last year’s Republican National Convention in Cleveland, and in April, visited President Trump in the Oval Office, along with former vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin and musician-turned-political-activist Ted Nugent.
Earlier this year, he was also reportedly being sincerely considered as a potential GOP candidate for the 2018 Michigan Senate race. If he were to run, he’d be facing off against Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), who is up for reelection.
Should Kid Rock seriously wish to run for office, he must either raise or spend $5,000 for or on his campaign, after which he has 15 days to file with the FEC. And, notably, he’s already promised a major announcement in “the near future” which could fit the bill — or be something completely different.
Stay tuned, I will have a major announcement in the near future - Kid Rock
In all likelihood, the Kid Rock for Senate website is a well-played viral marketing campaign that builds upon a somewhat long tradition of famous entertainers teasing political runs or being put forth by their fans as possible candidates. Given that the move comes just days after a similar attention-grabbing effort to push the Rock to run for office — that’s the Rock, not Kid Rock — it seems possible that Kid Rock may be seizing the moment to steal the limelight from his sedimentary relative.
This is going to be super confusing post-2020 when we have to explain that President The Rock isn't the father of Senator Kid Rock. https://t.co/ORedlQXQzJ
If that’s his aim, it’s worked — and at the very least, it’s given Twitter plenty of joke fodder.
And probably not the last. https://t.co/RjL3al6x2p
Kid Rock 2018Fred Durst 2020Buckcherry guy 2022A sentient Axe Body Spray bottle 2024
Congratulations to Kid Rock for having stronger messaging than the Democratic Party pic.twitter.com/I7lo0okI0Q
"I like that Kid Rock isn’t afraid to bawitdaba,” said Tom Frank, 48, a steelworker. “Other politicians, they don’t da-bang da-bang diggy"
Update, July 14: Without actually confirming whether he was running for office, Rock indulged in a bit more teasing the idea in a statement on his blog. In the post, titled “Once Again the Press Is Wrong,” Rock suggested he might still file FEC paperwork announcing his campaign, promised to release two new songs at midnight (“Like politicians write books during their campaigns, I'm planning on putting out music during mine”), and insisted, “It's not a hoax, it's a strategy and marketing 101!” The since-released songs include promotions for a new Kid Rock tour called the Greatest Show on Earth.
Rock also mocked press for allegedly incorrectly reporting that he was affiliated with Warner Bros. Records — without addressing the fact that his merchandising website is hosted on the Warner Bros. Records server, and copyrighted to both him and Warner Bros. — and called out his potential opponent, Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D - MI).
“Senator Stabenow and I do share a love of music, although probably not the same kind,” he wrote. “I concede she is better at playing politics than I am so I'll keep doing what I do best, which is being a voice for tax paying, hardworking AMERICANS and letting politicians like her know that We the People are sick and tired of their bullshit!”
Stabenow responded on Twitter:
I know we both share a love of music. I concede he's better at playing guitar and I'll keep doing what I do best: fighting for Michigan. https://t.co/CUaGqPu7AB

It’s an odd sensation: As we age, our memories pile up in physical places. Just today, I walked by a building I lived in more than 10 years ago and they all came flooding back: how I was living there when my father died, and when I got married; how we used to hear our neighbor downstairs playing jazz saxophone on hot summer evenings; how I cooked up big pots of chili and fed them to friends who sat on the floor of the tiny place, all 400 square feet of it.
The longer you stay put in one area, those memories stack up, sometimes overlapping with one another. Everywhere I go in Brooklyn, where I’ve lived for 11 years, now has some memory attached to it, and sometimes a bunch.
Rating
David Lowery’s exquisite gem A Ghost Story takes this phenomenon and adds to it. For Lowery, the memories heaped all over a place take on more than just an abstract theoretical quality — they are ghosts. Tangible ghosts, which A Ghost Story renders as literally as possible: A person under a bedsheet, with eyeholes punched out.
Lowery’s ghosts are the kind we make in elementary school for a Halloween play, which seems fitting. The memories evoked by their childlike quality are a further reminder that our pasts hang around and haunt us, long past when we think they’ve slipped into history — and that’s the mystery of life that A Ghost Story spins into a yarn that’s more folk tale than horror.
A Ghost Story starts out as a love story, and a sad one. After all, you can’t have ghosts without dead people.
The dead person, played by Casey Affleck, is C (who goes unnamed in the film, but has the one-initial name in the credits), a music producer married to M (Rooney Mara) and living in a small one-level house in Texas. They’re thinking of moving, though — or at least M is. C feels attached to the house in a way he can’t really articulate.
One night, lying in bed, they both bolt awake after hearing a crash on the keys of the piano in the living room — a piano that was in the house before they got there; the real estate agent tells them it had been there “forever.” They go out to investigate, but nobody’s in the living room, and eventually they go back to bed, nuzzling each other to sleep. Shortly thereafter, C dies in a car accident.
Or does he? Lying in the hospital morgue after M identifies his body and then leaves, C suddenly bolts awake underneath the sheet and sits up, then rises and leaves the hospital, still under the sheet (with two convenient eye holes cut in it now). He re-enters the house and discovers that while he can still watch M, she can’t see him anymore.
A wrenching series of scenes follow, depicting the full range of grief that M experiences, with Mara’s big eyes and placid exterior cracking in ways that feel so real they’re almost unbearable. At one point she pulls the bedsheets off the bed she used to share with C to wash them, then stops, sits on the foot of the bed, and just holds the sheets; it’s the first time she’s washed them since he died. And in the five-minute scene that’s sure to be the movie’s most cited sequence, she slumps onto the kitchen floor and eats a whole pie with increasing urgency. We just watch.
But A Ghost Story isn’t all sorrow and grief. There’s a kind of deadpan humor throughout — the sheet ghost is comical, and there’s no getting around it — that complicates the film and rewards a rewatch.
Sorrow, grief, humor, irritation, love: Those are all parts of a life, and even after loss, life goes on. The ghost-that-was-C watches as M picks up the pieces of her life hesitatingly and then, midway through, does something surprising: She moves out of the house.
After that, the movie turns into something quite different, and it’s too perfect to spoil. For C-the-ghost, time ceases to run in its normal course. Years slip away in an instant, and the accumulation of memories becomes something almost cosmically wise, a meditation on the meaning of life itself. In one scene, we watch a slightly inebriated guy wax semi-eloquent on this topic, but it seems silly and pretentious next to the film itself. You can’t explain the meaning of life. You can only experience it, and that’s what the movie is after.
Lowery’s tendency as a director is to privilege images over dialogue. Sometimes he hangs on an image for minutes more than we’re conditioned to expect by most American films, forcing us to contemplate what we’re seeing. Not that it’s a burdensome task: Each shot in any of his films feels like it could be framed and hung on the wall. (Cinematographer Andrew Droz Palermo shot the film in a nearly square aspect ratio, with rounded corners, which only adds to the sense that we’re looking at a photo pasted into an album.)
A Ghost Story doesn’t have much talking at all (in some places, to comical effect). You have to watch and feel and experience what’s onscreen in order to follow the story, which begins to play with our expectations about time in ways that are ultimately deeply satisfying, almost cathartic. That means that when people do talk, we pay attention: This must be important. And as the movie shifts from realism to surrealism to something all its own, we’re carried along by what we see.
A Ghost Story casts the afterlife as something we shape during life, shaded by our regrets and loves. We are not done with life until we reconcile those things about which we feel shame or remorse. In other words, the hereafter is a direct product of the here and now.
But for A Ghost Story, both life and afterlife is also bound up somehow with the story of the cosmos. It manages to share DNA with Ghost, Personal Shopper, and, implausibly, 2001: A Space Odyssey, all at the same time. If people’s individual memories pile up in the spaces they inhabit, then the collective memory of the whole human race is imprinted all over the universe, especially this earth we live on, with varying degrees of success. So in the Ghost Story universe, how we live today doesn’t just impact what our lives will be in the hereafter, but also what it will be like to be human long after 2017 is a distant memory.
Early in the film, M tells C that when she was a child, moving around a lot with her family, she used to write notes and stick them in the walls of her house, on which she’d written “little rhymes and poems, things I wanted to remember about living in that house.” It was, in a sense, her little attempt to put a pin in history, marking in a tangible way that she had been in that house, a part of its memory pileup. A Ghost Story feels like Lowery’s attempt to do the same — to mark what it is to exist now, and give us a film to rewatch and remember, too.
A Ghost Story opens in theaters on July 7.
On its face, Lady Macbeth is connected to Shakespeare in name only. It’s adapted by Alice Birch from an 1865 Russian novella by Nikolai Leskov. Its main character, Katherine (Florence Pugh), is a character in the Lady Macbeth line — a potent cocktail of very few scruples and a lot of determination. But there are no overt Shakespeare references to be found in the film.
Yet Shakespeare was a keen observer of social class, and so, in turn, is Lady Macbeth. Katherine is a chilling avatar for the ways class and privilege — of both the obvious and hidden sort — insulate some people from the consequences of their actions while damning others.
Rating
Lady Macbeth is also a dazzling directorial debut from William Oldroyd. It’s visually stunning, each frame composed so carefully and deliberately that the wildness and danger roiling just below the surface feels even more frightening. Each scene ratchets up the tension. I left feeling shaken.
Katherine is a young woman in rural England in an arranged marriage to Alexander (Paul Hilton), a man of some means who seems to have nothing but disgust for her. On their wedding night, he orders her to disrobe, looks at her, then turns over and goes to sleep. Katherine and Alexander live with Alexander’s father, Boris (Christopher Fairbank), and both men are severe to the extreme with Katherine, forcing her to stay indoors and submitting her to crushing boredom. Katherine spends her days trying to stay awake in a silent house along with her servant, Anna (Naomi Ackie).
But Katherine is a rebel to the core, and the cruelty of her husband and father-in-law sets a match to a big pile of kindling that’s been inside her all along. When they both leave town on business, she deliberately strikes up a passionate affair with the new groomsman, Sebastian (Cosmo Jarvis). And when her father-in-law returns and finds out about the affair, she coolly gets rid of him.
The drama that follows — in which Katherine’s sins grow less and less forgivable — intimately explores how privilege from wealth, class standing, gender, and race can by turns insulate or expose people to the consequences of their actions, and of others’ actions. It’s like watching a balletic game of chess, with Katherine maneuvering herself, as the queen, into the perfect position of power by eliminating everyone around her.
Her affair with Sebastian is at the center of it, and that’s where the most complicated games are played. It’s all about sex, and maybe self-hatred, at the start. But then it becomes more complex. Does she love him and crave his love in return? Does she love how she can command him, since he works for her husband? Is she power-drunk, bored, ruthless, or some combination of all of these?
We don’t know, because the movie doesn’t want to tell us. The levels of treachery are immense, but they’re confined to the manor, giving the film a claustrophobic, hothouse feeling. We know next to nothing about Katherine herself, or about her husband’s family or business. Her past doesn’t matter. Neither does what’s going on past the edges of the manor.
The remarkable thing about Lady Macbeth is that it refuses to allow the audience to have the emotional reactions we want to have. We want to root for poor, bored, put-upon Katherine, but then she turns around and acts cruelly to Anna. We want to be on Katherine and Sebastian’s side, willing them toward happiness, but as the movie wears on, that desire sours until it bursts into startling, destructive flame.
Each frame of the film is gorgeously shot, almost painterly in how it renders the drab home, the wild moors, and Katherine’s luminous beauty. The shots are so still and quiet that we grow nervous, except when the passion and madness bubbling beneath the placid exterior break into passionate violence or passionate sex. Something’s got to give, and when it does — whew. It’s both a visceral thrill and a sickening plunge into chaos.
But Lady Macbeth isn’t going to do the work for you. The cathartic fun of watching its story unfold depends on paying attention to the players and imagining that they’re moving up and down a ladder of privilege and power, trying to reach the top. And yet they’ve all got different ideas about where the top is, and how they’ll get there. For Alexander, it’s merely having a wife he can order about with minimal fuss, and perhaps a bit of sadism. For Sebastian, it’s being just high enough to look down on his fellow servants at the manor. For Anna, it’s just getting through the day without being manipulated or abused. For Katherine, it seems, the sky may be the limit.
It becomes clear that Katherine is either something of a psychopath or a sociopath — or, at least, so bent on having her way that the other humans around her stop having meaning and dignity on their own. But there’s an element of revenge fantasy, too, in how she eliminates everyone who gets in her way. This is not a triumphant tale of feminism against the patriarchy, or not just that. If you can adjust to the idea that you’re not meant to sympathize with anyone, Lady Macbeth is a glorious, brutal rumination on the limits of power, position, and privilege, and where those borders are — and aren’t — able to crack.
Lady Macbeth opens in theaters on July 14.
When I woke up to the news that Beyoncé and Jay-Z had named one of their twins Rumi, the first thing I did was text my mother. Persian poets like Rumi and Hafez were threaded throughout my childhood, and I couldn’t believe that the reigning queen of American music had seen fit to tie herself and her family into an ancient Persian tradition — but also, I totally could. By bringing Rumi into their family in such a prominent, lasting way, the Carters have woven their story into a much larger tapestry of art and spirituality that stretches back centuries.
The Persian poet, Sufi philosopher, and Muslim scholar Rumi — full name Jalal ad-Din Muhammad Rumi, though “Rumi” is actually a Persian shorthand for “Rome,” or “West” — was born in 1207, and has long since influenced artists and thinkers with his insightful poetry and prose. While Rumi has been a crucial voice throughout the Middle East for centuries, he is also one of the all-time best-selling poets in the United States, thanks to the enduring ubiquity of his words of wisdom.
Related
Even if you think you don’t know who Rumi is, chances are you’re familiar with his poetry. Lines like “Wherever you are, whatever you do, be in love” have become so omnipresent that their origin is frequently overlooked by the Western tendency to share quotes in self-help books and on Pinterest. But make no mistake: Rumi’s words are beautiful, meticulously chosen, and more layered than meets the eye.
Consider this excerpt from “On Language,” a poem about the intangible power of love that not even words can express; it could easily be dissected into palatable sound bites, but as a whole, it’s far more layered and beautiful (translation courtesy of my mother):
The language of companions stands alone
Sharing a heart
is better than
sharing a language.
Besides arguing
and obliqueness,
a hundred thousand
connections
come from the heart.
In keeping with Sufi tradition, Rumi’s poetry tends to emphasize the connection between mind and body. As Rumi scholar Fatemeh Keshavarz points out, he even may have inspired the Islamic tradition of whirling dervishes by reciting his poetry while spinning around columns, using dance to underline the lyrical nature of his words. “Everything in the universe is whirling, is quickened with the force of love,” Keshavarz explained in 2012. “... We are like planets. We have to appreciate that. And in order to appreciate that, you have to join the dance.”
In that context, it isn’t at all surprising that the deeply spiritual Beyoncé has gravitated toward Rumi in particular, as far as spiritual sources of inspiration are concerned. And as the Washington Post’s Elahe Izadi recently pointed out, Jay-Z hinted at learning more about Persian tradition, rapping on his newest album 4:44 that he’s come so far he could “probably speak Farsi [Persian]/ That’s poetry...”
By naming their daughter Rumi, Beyoncé and Jay-Z are paying homage to a poet who loved to express his spirituality in passionate words and exuberant dance, to the endless gratitude of those who encountered his work. There’s almost certainly more than meets the eye here — with the Carters, there always is — but it’s hard to deny that Rumi is at least a fitting legacy for them to honor.
Beyoncé has introduced her newborn twins to the world, and she did it the same way she announced her pregnancy back in February: with a gorgeous, heavily referential portrait on Instagram.
Related
The portrait — most likely taken by Awol Erizku, the photographer behind the lead images in the pregnancy photo shoot, though that has yet to be confirmed — shows Beyoncé cradling her twins, draped in a flowing robe, standing in front of a floral wreath that looks like the one she was kneeling in front of back in February. It’s an evocative image with a lot to unpack, so let’s look a little closer:
Most of the imagery the new maternity portrait is working with is the same basic toolkit that the pregnancy portrait used, but it’s all been amped up. The blue veil is still heavily reminiscent of Renaissance portraits of the Madonna and child, but the robe ups the resemblance — and now that Rumi and Sir Carter are here, Beyoncé’s pose echoes images of the Virgin Mary cradling the baby Jesus even more strongly.
The references to Botticelli’s Venus have grown stronger too. In the pregnancy photo, the resemblance was subliminal: The flower wreath behind Beyoncé’s head echoed the roses the winds blow towards Venus, the lines of Beyoncé’s veil echoed the lines of Venus’s hair, and the placement of Beyoncé’s hands on her pregnant belly echoed the placement of Venus’s hands framing her genitalia.
But in her maternity photo, Beyoncé is standing in Venus’s very pose, one leg slightly lifted as if she’s about to step forward out of the portrait. And her floral silk robe is strikingly similar to the floral silk mantle that a nymph is about to drape over Botticelli’s Venus.
Everything that was promised in the pregnancy portrait is realized in the maternity portrait. Before, Beyoncé was suggesting Venus and Mary; now she’s taking on their literal poses. Before, the colors were saturated and the light was subdued, suggesting an expectant, waiting atmosphere; now the light gleams brilliantly off Beyoncé and her babies: The waiting is over and the twins are here.
Related
Beyoncé’s choice of imagery isn’t accidental: She’s essentially deconstructing the Madonna/whore complex through her own person. The Virgin Mary traditionally stands for maternity, purity, and chastity, while Venus stands for erotic beauty and sex. In the West, we’re obsessed with keeping those two ideas separate, but Beyoncé won’t allow it. She is mother and saint and goddess of beauty and sex, all at once, and she’s doing it as a woman of color, too. That’s the kind of masterful manipulation of imagery that makes Beyoncé one of our most iconic stars.
It’s hard to imagine seeing a more charming movie in 2017 than The Big Sick, which hits all the right romantic comedy notes with one unusual distinction: It feels like real life.
That’s probably because The Big Sick is written by married couple Emily V. Gordon and Kumail Nanjiani. He’s a stand-up comic and star of HBO’s Silicon Valley, and she’s a writer and executive producer of shows like Comedy Central’s The Meltdown with Jonah and Kumail; the couple also worked together on their now-ended podcast The Indoor Kids. The Big Sick — which stars Nanjiani as a version of himself, alongside Zoe Kazan as Emily — is based on their real-life romance. Directed by Michael Showalter (Wet Hot American Summer, My Name is Doris), the film is funny and sweet while not backing away from matters that romantic comedies don’t usually touch on, like serious illness, struggles in long-term marriages, and religion.
Why don’t those topics crop up much in comedy? Probably because most comedies follow the old “dinner party rule,” which deems it rude to bring up anything too serious or divisive at the table. Religion certainly counts, and life-threatening illness is generally a killjoy.
Rating
But as writers, Gordon and Nanjiani just go for it. The pair gamely drops in jokes about being a Muslim in America today — via quips about terrorism and 9/11 — and jokes about life-threatening illness, and they work because they’re rooted in a gentle, knowing irony that can only come from experience.
The film picks up with Kumail in his struggling-comic phase, driving an Uber and doing sets on stage at a comedy club in Chicago, then trekking out to his parents’ house in the suburbs for mandatory family dinners. He’s Pakistani and was raised Muslim, and though he’s not sure he subscribes to the beliefs he grew up with, his parents are still set on finding him a wife by bringing every single girl in their community over for dinner. (The girls arrive with headshots, which he pitches into a cigar box on his dresser when he gets home.)
But he’s smitten by a girl who heckles him at a show one night — Emily — and they hook up. Both seem allergic to commitment, but their relationship starts to take on a life of its own. Eventually they admit they’re together, even while Kumail keeps Emily a secret from his parents, who definitely would not be thrilled.
And then, one day, Emily lands in the hospital with a mysterious infection. Her parents come to town. Kumail finds himself spending time with them while Emily’s battle grows more serious. Life gets real.
“Authentic” is an overused word in movie reviews, but there’s no better way to describe The Big Sick: Every inch of it feels true, and not just because it’s drawn from real life. The performances play a big role — both Kazan and Nanjiani are born scene-stealers, with deadpan delivery and sparkling chemistry. Emily and Kumail’s conversations are hysterical even when they’re talking about mundane matters; you can imagine the real-life Nanjiani and Gordon writing them by sitting on the couch and improvising first.
Meanwhile, The Big Sick’s great supporting cast really fleshes out the rest of the film, most notably Holly Hunter and Ray Romano as Emily’s parents and Zenobia Shroff as Kumail’s imposing mother. Rarely in intergenerational comedy are parents and adult children granted equal complexity, but in The Big Sick, we start to understand the inner lives of Kumail and Emily’s parents as much as Kumail and Emily themselves.
But it’s the plot that ultimately drives the film’s authenticity home. Choosing to tell a story about a life-threatening, long-term illness is hard enough; structuring a romance around it is even harder, especially if you’re trying to keep your audience from feeling like you pulled a bait-and-switch on them.
In The Big Sick, though, Emily’s illness give the film an excuse to bring in Hunter and Romano, and that’s a stroke of genius: Both are familiar comic actors playing dramatic parts, but their faces and voices feel comforting. We know we’re in good hands. And their own relationship feels real, too, even as they worry about their daughter and become more vulnerable — like when, as an adult, you start to realize that your parents are real humans, too.
Meanwhile, Kumail’s struggles to find his place in his own family — particularly when it comes to his mother — ring especially true for anyone who’s tried to find their way as an adult raised in a traditionalist home.
But it’s especially poignant to see that experience through Kumail’s eyes, as a Pakistani man whose American lifestyle clashes with the religion and cultural traditions he grew up with. Kumail tries to reconcile those clashes by simply compartmentalizing different aspects of his life — and realizes, eventually, that he can’t always pull it off. It’s not a struggle that’s unique to Muslims in America, but it’s also not one we see on screen very often.
Tackling all of those heavy topics in a comedy seems inadvisable, but because The Big Sick draws on real experiences, it works. We feel empathy for characters even when they seem intransigent or unreasonable, because we’ve come to see how they arrive at their conclusions.
When one of the young women (played by Crazy Ex-Girlfriend’s Vella Lovell) brought to dinner by Kumail’s parents finds out why he’s not interested in her, her reaction is the kind of irritation — and resignation — that anyone would feel in that situation. The anger Kumail’s mother feels over her son’s choices makes sense, given how his lifestyle looks to her. And Emily’s mother’s misguided last-minute bid to move her daughter to another hospital is both as frustrating and as understandable as it would be if it was your own mother.
Making secondary characters as vibrant as the leads helps make this happen. And in the end, The Big Sick reminds us that everyone’s struggles — and everyone’s joys — contain more layers than meets the eye.
The Big Sick opens in limited release on June 23 and in wide release on July 14.
AMC has suspended production on The Walking Dead following an on-set accident that has left a stunt performer dead.
John Bernecker died on July 13 of a head injury sustained in a fall that occurred the previous day, while shooting an episode of The Walking Dead’s eighth season on the show’s set in Atlanta. Bernecker had worked as a Hollywood stuntman since 2009, including on such films as Logan and The Fate of the Furious. He had also filmed scenes for a number of upcoming films, including Black Panther and Game Night.
On-set sources told Deadline that the accident occurred during what was supposed to be a “routine” balcony fight and fall. Bernecker reportedly lost his footing and fell onto the concrete floor. Estimates of the distance of his fall range from 20 to 30 feet.
In a statement released following Bernecker’s injury on Wednesday, AMC said, “We are saddened to report that John Bernecker, a talented stuntman for ‘The Walking Dead’ and numerous other television shows and films, suffered serious injuries from a tragic accident on set. He was immediately transported to an Atlanta hospital and we have temporarily shut down production.” Bernecker was reportedly brain-dead and on life support Wednesday night.
Production on the show’s eighth season has been suspended pending an investigation by SAG-AFTRA, Hollywood’s main actors union.
“As always, the safety and security of our members and others on set is of crucial concern to us, and we are focused on this in our investigation,” a SAG-AFTRA spokesperson told Variety. “Our thoughts and prayers are with the performer and his family.”
This isn’t the first time in recent memory that an injury or death has occurred on the set of a production in Georgia. In 2014, on the first day of filming for Midnight Rider in Jesup, Georgia, an accident on a train trestle resulted in the death of a 27-year-old camera operator and the serious injury of several other crew members. Courts found that the film’s producers and director had willfully and knowingly violated safety guidelines. The film was canceled.
That same year, a lighting crew member was electrocuted while filming Selma in Atlanta. He survived the incident.
Beyoncé has officially introduced her baby twins to the world, and a single question is on everyone’s mind: What is Sir Carter’s full name?
The caption on Beyoncé’s Instagram says simply, “Sir Carter and Rumi 1 month today.” So does the placement of “Carter” next to “Sir” indicate that it is part of Sir’s first name? Meaning that his full name is Sir Carter Carter? Maybe Sir Carter Knowles? Sir Carter Knowles-Carter? Or is the “Carter” meant to apply to both Sir and Rumi, meaning that Sir’s full name is Sir Carter, full stop?
Fans have been taking to Twitter all morning to muse over the possibilities.
Beyoncé wrote "Sir Carter and Rumi" not "Sir and Rumi Carter" so is Rumi not a Carter or is Sir Carter Sir Carter Carter? pic.twitter.com/UTOvLLupP4
Does the name being written out as "Sir Carter" substantiate the claim they haven't confirmed that Jay-Z took Beyonce's last name please god
LISTEN Y'ALL, SHE SPECIFICALLY PUT SIR CARTER AND RUMI, NOT SIR AND RUMI CARTER. WE WILL REFER TO KING #1 BY HIS COMPLETE NAME, SIR CARTER pic.twitter.com/37bgVVzHWI
Some suspect that Beyoncé’s mother, Tina Knowles, may have clarified things. On Instagram, she posted Beyoncé’s portrait with the caption, “hello Sir Carter and Rumi Carter,” which Refinery29 argues is definitive proof that Sir’s full name is just Sir Carter.
Regardless of whether the proper address is Sir or Sir Carter, the name Sir fits into a long history of black people using honorifics as first names. Names like Master, King, and Prince were common among African-American men in the beginning of the 20th century, and some scholars have suggested that the naming convention may have functioned as a way for black people to imbue pride in their children.
Related
It’s also been suggested that Sir is a reference to the Persian poet Rumi, making Sir and Rumi a matched pair of names. As TMZ points out, Rumi addresses a line in one of his most famous poems to “sir”:
Bring the pure wine of
love and freedom.
But sir, a tornado is coming.
More wine, we'll teach this storm
A thing or two about whirling.
That’s not necessarily a smoking gun — sir is a pretty common word that shows up in a lot of poetry! — but it would be a very Beyoncé move to make sure her twins’ names correspond to each other.
To those who’ve had a brush (or worse) with the twisted, upside-down universe of eating disorders, To the Bone bears the unmistakable ring of truth, even in the midst of its humor and warmth. There are the obsessive patterns, the insistence that everything’s fine when it obviously isn’t. There are the furtive attempts to pass along “tricks” and contraband substances to help others with eating disorders slowly make themselves disappear.
And there’s the band of family and friends who, while trying to help and to assuage their own guilt, only make things worse. Even those who haven’t directly experienced anorexia will feel their hackles raise at these well-intentioned misfires.
Rating
But while To the Bone is knowing, it strenuously resists glamorizing anorexia and other eating disorders. The risk is always there still; for people in the grip of an eating disorder, especially young women, any depiction of disordered behavior — no matter how grotesque it appears to those who haven’t experienced such behavior — can be triggering.
Yet the internet is full of easily accessible communities devoted to “promoting” such behavior, painting it as part of a kind of tragic, sensitive beauty (and attracting not just people with actual eating disorders but also coteries of people playing with what they see as glamorous fire). To the Bone acknowledges that web trend as part of its smart and even funny story of a young woman nearing the bottom of her anorexia, and wraps it into the larger picture: that no eating disorder has simple causes or solutions, but for those who don’t recover, the end can only be death.
Far from making anorexia seem desirable, or acting as if it stems from a desire to “look skinny,” To the Bone is sensitive but unsparingly real. And that comes from personal experience: It’s the directorial film debut of Marti Noxon, best known for her long TV career as a writer and executive producer on shows including UnREAL and Buffy the Vampire Slayer, and to write it she drew on her own battle with anorexia. (The film’s credits note that it is based on actual events.)
It’s also personal for star Lily Collins, who has spoken about her own past with an eating disorder. Collins has also spoken about the care she took when stepping back into those shoes for the role, saying it turned out to be another kind of recovery for her, while Noxon says making the film involved exorcising some lingering demons of her own.
Some watching the film at home — after a warm reception at Sundance in January, it’s releasing straight to Netflix — may find it both unsettling and resonant. Eating disorders make very little sense to people who haven’t experienced them firsthand. And though eating disorders are a rampant issue in America — the estimates are as high as 30 million people, which is nearly 10 percent of the population, and those experiencing it are disproportionately female — they still fall outside the mainstream for cinema. (Eating disorders are fairly common fodder for TV movies, but Hollywood still dances around the subject.)
But Noxon and Collins intuitively understand why the story needs to be told, and they’re equipped to tell it well; anyone who’s experienced an eating disorder, or knows people who have, will instantly recognize that this is a film that knows what it’s talking about.
Collins stars as Ellen, a 20-year-old funny, sardonic, artistic young woman whose anorexia is hurling her toward rock bottom. Forced to see a new doctor by her chattering, nervous stepmother (Carrie Preston), she ends up in an inpatient situation totally unlike any other she’s been in before, a house of seven young people tended by a no-nonsense house manager (Retta). And her doctor (a terrific Keanu Reeves) has some unorthodox methods.
To the Bone is a great example of the sort of film that Hollywood is too timid to touch. It’s helmed by proven talent and features big stars — in addition to Collins, Preston, and Reeves, the film also stars Lili Taylor — but because the topic is perceived as “edgy” (especially, one might imagine, by the older white male executives who still typically greenlight projects at the big studios), it’s hard to get made.
But while To the Bone doesn’t take a lot of risks cinematically — Noxon’s background in TV shows in the film’s conventional framing and pacing — it’s moving film, well-made and, surprisingly enough given the subject, funny and sweet.
It’s also a little hard to watch. The small knot of young people in the inpatient program Ellen enters manifest their disorders in different ways, from bingeing and obsessive exercise to hiding bags of purged food under the bed. An eating disorder is in essence the mind externalizing its brokenness through the body, which can mean different things in different bodies. But it’s all deeply physical — which means everything else bodies do (sweat, shiver, conceive, have sex) is affected.
To the Bone doesn’t back off from the physical consequences of its characters’ disorders — not just the weight loss, but the other ways (some of them devastating) the body shuts down. It’s more evidence that there’s no glamorizing going on in this film.
And though Ellen is sick at the beginning of the film, she hasn’t miraculously recovered by the end. There’s no magic cure. Even hitting bottom doesn’t ensure she’ll recover. But what To the Bone is certain of is that without the conviction that she deserves to live, she’ll never get better. That conviction resounds with truth — and it’s vital even when an eating disorder isn’t in the picture.
To the Bone premieres exclusively on Netflix on July 14.
As Game of Thrones prepares to begin its seventh and next-to-last season, there’s ample reason to proceed with caution. Namely, next-to-last seasons are often pretty darn weak.
You only need to look back to the spring to see just such a problem unfold with The Americans, which had a somewhat disappointing season after three terrific ones with its penultimate fifth season.
But beyond even that, everything from Mad Men to The Shield to The Sopranos has struggled with the episodes that don’t play out the end, but rather set up the end.
Even Breaking Bad, which probably had the best luck with this “curse,” struggled in the first half of its fifth season. (That season, like the final seasons of Sopranos and Mad Men, was split in two, so its first eight episodes fulfilled the “next-to-last season” role.) Though that half-season had some brilliant episodes, it also took some major narrative leaps in order to get things to a place that would result in the series’ final eight episodes unspooling as they did.
It’s hard to see why Game of Thrones would avoid the same fate. It, too, is at a place where it essentially has to devote a whole season to setting up conflicts, rather than beginning to knock them down. And nothing’s less fun to watch than a TV show’s writers moving characters around until they’re in the right places on the board.
Before I continue, I should state something outright: The next-to-last season rule only really applies if the show’s creators know they have a final season coming up. If they’re scraping for every renewal they get, the next-to-last season can be as good as any of them.
There are exceptions, of course. Justified didn’t know with absolute certainty that its sixth season would be its last when it began production of season five — and that fifth season was still its worst by a long distance. Lost had a three-season plan for its end, and the best season ended up being the penultimate season (its loopy, time-travel-driven fifth). But for the most part, knowing that you have a certain number of episodes left all too often results in the first half of those episodes leaving audiences wondering when the story is going to get going already.
The reason for this is pretty simple, I think: Most TV shows have a series of cards they’re waiting to play in the endgame. As an example, a big card Breaking Bad was holding back was Walter White’s brother-in-law, DEA agent Hank, learning that Walter was a drug kingpin. Hank found that out at the very end of that first half of season five — which gave the second half a tremendous sense of momentum.
But because the show needed to delay having Hank find out, that left that character (along with a few others) treading water throughout the final season’s first half. They were already where they needed to be for the endgame to play out, save one last card being flipped over. Once it was flipped, their story could resume.
What’s unique to Game of Thrones is that nearly the entire show is in a place where it has, in essence, one last story beat to play out before the ending begins. At some point, the Starks, Lannisters, and Targaryens will clash (with occasional cameos from the other major houses), with alliances shifting and breaking, before the White Walkers break in and make everybody realize that the true menace is all the ice zombies up north.
But the really meaningful story beat involves those ice zombies. The closer we get to the end of the show, the harder it becomes to ignore that everything else is just a prelude to that. No matter how skillfully the show plays out the political tensions within Westeros this season, viewers are going to be hyperaware of what the ending will probably look like when all is said and done. This could give even the best episodes of the show the feeling of a long plot stall.
And my guess is that the show might not even get that far. I rather expect a season that’s about 75 percent political maneuvering and 25 percent actual plot development. And to be sure, there are political maneuvers I want to see — like whichever side Arya ends up choosing, or Dany and Jon finally meeting — but this is a show that can get lost in its own needlessly elaborate construction far too easily.
Add on to that the fact that Game of Thrones largely built its reputation atop being unpredictable, atop dangling catharsis in front of viewers, then snatching it away, most famously when Ned Stark died, or when the Red Wedding cleared several major players off the board. But the deeper we get into a story, the more we crave catharsis, and I’m not sure the kind of catharsis Game of Thrones has to offer is something that will properly sate its many millions of fan theories. (Rowan Kaiser has written much more about this very problem here.)
Even as I realize the end of the show will probably be “Jon and Dany against the White Walker hordes” — doesn’t that feel just a little anticlimactic, a little pedestrian for a show that has built its name on some pretty bold storytelling choices? And yet what would likely be even more disappointing is the White Walker threat simply dissipating into the snow.
I don’t write any of this to be a doomsayer — I haven’t seen any of Game of Thrones’ seventh season as I write this, and I’d love for the show to pull a Lost and make this next-to-last season the best yet. And there’s some evidence this just might happen. Season six of Game of Thrones, for instance, was actually improved by a little hard-earned catharsis, especially when it came to, say, Cersei destroying many of her enemies in a barrage of wildfire or Dany finally setting sail for the Seven Kingdoms.
But if Game of Thrones doesn’t suffer a penultimate season slump, it’ll be going against a bunch of TV history precedent. It’s not impossible — but I also wouldn’t hold my breath.
The Emmys are hardly perfect. In fact, they’re frequently dumb, stupid, horribly infuriating, and hard to take.
Sure, they’ve gotten better in recent years, especially as they’ve increased the number of nominations in some categories and shaken up their voting processes. And TV has gotten better, too — it’s hard to imagine a world in which some categories see the exact same slate of nominees re-nominated year after year after year, as sometimes happened in the ’80s and ’90s.
Related
Sometimes, they even pleasantly surprise us.
But they still stink when it comes to variety, and they make a lot of bad choices. So now that the nominations have been announced for the 2017 ceremony, we’re going to highlight the victims of those bad choices: the shows and performers that should have made the list but didn’t.
Here are the 13 worst omissions of the 2017 Emmy nominations, in no particular order.
(Except The Leftovers is first because that’s the most egregious omission of them all.)
It’s no secret that we’re obsessed with The Leftovers, HBO’s strange and beautiful drama  that wrapped its final season this June. But there’s a good reason for that: The series truly is one of the best that TV has ever produced. Between its precise and surreal scripts written by Damon Lindelof and his team, its stunning direction from the visionary Mimi Leder, and its unforgettable performances from Justin Theroux and Carrie Coon in particular, The Leftovers was brimming over with gorgeous craftsmanship that deserved to be acknowledged by the Emmys. Instead, The Leftovers will be yet another in a long line of shows the awards failed to recognize, with Ann Dowd snagging the only nomination (in the Outstanding Guest Actress category) that the show will ever receive. That’s a shame and, more frankly, an embarrassment.
It’s rare for a comedy to hit the top of its game straight out of the gate; it’s even rarer for a comedy to do so while telling a serialized story about literal life-and-death stakes. But NBC’s The Good Place managed all that and more, sending an unrepentant jerk (Kristen Bell) to heaven and serving up genuinely surprising cliffhangers in every one of its 13 episodes.
Related
We didn’t have much hope for the show sweeping the Emmys’ comedy categories or anything, but there were so many great performances to choose from between Bell, William Jackson Harper’s neurotic Chidi, D’Arcy Carden’s personification of a help desk, and the incomparable Ted Danson as the gatekeeper in charge. And if Emmy voters couldn’t find it in their heart to recognize Ted Danson — a longstanding and undisputed king of television — in one of his most fun roles ever, we suppose there’s not much else The Good Place could’ve done to get the Academy’s attention.
It’s frustrating that Netflix’s One Day At A Time — a warm and funny reboot of Norman Lear’s 1970s sitcom — was completely overlooked, and downright shocking that star Rita Moreno was left without a nomination. But for our money, the most egregious oversight is a lack of recognition for Justina Machado, who anchors the series with the kind of skillful, openhearted performance that by all rights should earn her endless praise.
The Outstanding Comedy Series race doesn’t look all that different this year than it has  in past years, with Atlanta being the only new comedy to break into the field (and taking what was Transparent’s slot last year). But there were many great challengers that deserved to enter the fold, and we’d like to highlight Speechless in particular as a worthy contender. ABC’s new family sitcom tackles disability like no other show on TV, and with hilarious performances from Minnie Driver, John Ross Bowie, and newcomer Micah Fowler to boot. If the show keeps improving like it did throughout its first season, it could — and should! — be a real contender in 2018.
With the first season of Insecure, creator and star Issa Rae (and her showrunner Prentice Penny) locked into a groove that was so at ease it often felt effortless — which is maybe why the Emmys overlooked its stunning achievements. But it’s still disappointing to look at the list of nominees and realize that Rae’s writing and performance — not to mention Melina Matsoukas’s typically stellar direction — are nowhere to be found.
Rami Malek’s performance on Mr. Robot can feel a little like a magic trick; you know he’s holding something back from you, but you don’t quite know what or how or why. That was enough to win him the Best Lead Actor in a Drama Series trophy in 2016, but not enough to keep him from being pushed out of the race entirely this year. Opinions on season two of Mr. Robot are ... mixed, but Malek remains one of TV’s best performers. Here’s hoping the show’s upcoming third season gets him back in the race.
Mary Elizabeth Winstead has a knack for playing characters who think, endlessly, on their feet. If one of your characters is backed into a corner, unsure of what to do next, toss the role into Winstead’s hands and she’ll make a meal of it. That’s exactly what she did with Fargo’s Nikki Swango, to the degree that the character all but took over the show for the back half of season three. It was great to see some of Winstead’s co-stars — especially Carrie Coon and David Thewlis — pick up nominations, but Winstead deserved to be right there alongside them. When will Hollywood realize that Mary Elizabeth Winstead is a national treasure? Not soon enough.
There’s simply no way to watch the third season of Better Call Saul and not think that Michael McKean deserved a supporting actor nomination for his work as Jimmy McGill’s deeply damaged, deeply cruel brother Chuck.
Related
In season three, McKean took us right down through his character’s spiral of poor mental health, somehow making Chuck both endlessly sympathetic and impossible to like. Saul saw a slight uptick in its nominations total this year (it received seven in 2016 and nine in 2017) — which makes it all the more baffling that McKean’s name wasn’t on the list.
The Emmys’ animation categories are stuck in the past, in the way the awards as a whole have a (sometimes unfair) reputation for being. But honestly, BoJack Horseman isn’t just TV’s best animated show — it’s one of TV’s best shows period. Yet it remains un-nominated, in favor of Emmy stalwarts like The Simpsons and South Park. Both of those long-running series are still pretty good, and all-time TV classics. But c’mon, Academy. BoJack is out there, making it happen every season! You love Netflix in all the other categories! Why can’t you love it here?
Look, is Mandy Moore giving one of the seven best performances by a lead actress in a drama series right now on This Is Us? Nah. But the Television Academy really liked the acting on This Is Us. And is Mandy Moore giving a better performance on This Is Us than her onscreen husband, Milo Ventimiglia? She is giving a performance that is several miles better than his. So, look, why nominate This Is Us for Drama Series, Ventimiglia for Lead Actor in a Drama Series, and then leave Moore out in the cold? This is an outrage.
Few fans of The Americans would name its fifth season as their favorite, and the normally acclaimed series had to deal with the mildest backlash ever this year, when critics started to say, “This show that was the greatest drama on TV now might be second or third.” But even if you thought season five was a disaster, it was still better than the fifth season of House of Cards. And the first season of This Is Us. And, honestly, the first seasons of The Crown and Stranger Things and Westworld. But all of those shows are nominated, and The Americans isn’t. Sigh. (Bonus omission shout-out: Transparent deserved a nomination over Modern Family — easily.)
The Variety Series categories tend to cycle through the same revolving door of shows year in and year out, give or take a Full Frontal With Samantha Bee. But Late Night With Seth Meyers — which has steadily gotten better and funnier since it debuted in 2014 — has only been nominated once, with the series only getting its first writing nod this year.
Related
This relative lack of acknowledgment particularly stings this year. Before, during, and after the 2016 election, Meyers delivered night after night of insightful political commentary and smart interviews, always with keen insight and a wry grin. If the Emmys ever decide to finally shake up their variety series nominations, they’d be smart to throw Meyers and his team an Outstanding Variety Series nod for their consistently good work rather than, say, throwing their weight behind Real Time With Bill Maher once again.
Nobody watches Halt and Catch Fire or Rectify. We know that. We’re well aware that even by the standards of the Emmys — which will gladly nominate a low-rated show, but not a no-rated show — both series are too far off the radar. But dadgummit, they shouldn’t be!
Rectify, which ended in December, was brilliant and atmospheric and poignant, a tribute to small-town life, in all its pains and eccentricities, like TV had never seen. And Halt and Catch Fire is the brilliant, soulful Mad Men follow-up you never knew you needed, with ’80s tech industry types navigating the perils of circuitry, but also the heart. These two shows were definitely some of TV’s best offerings last year, yet neither received a single nomination. Halt and Catch Fire has one more shot, as it’s about to return for a fourth and final season, but Rectify, sadly, is gone forever.
Corrected to reflect that Late Night With Seth Meyers was nominated for writing in the Variety Series category.
Beyoncé has revealed both the birthday and the names of her 1-month-old twins via a post on Instagram. The twins, named Sir Carter and Rumi, are “one month old” according to the singer’s post. Assuming they were born in California, that would put their birth date at June 13, 2017.
Beyoncé posted a photo of herself with the twins shortly after 10 pm Pacific time.
Sir Carter and Rumi 1 month today.   ❤️
A post shared by Beyoncé (@beyonce) on Jul 13, 2017 at 10:10pm PDT
The post deliberately echoed February’s pregnancy announcement.
We would like to share our love and happiness. We have been blessed two times over. We are incredibly grateful  that our family will be growing by two, and we thank you for your well wishes. - The Carters
A post shared by Beyoncé (@beyonce) on Feb 1, 2017 at 10:39am PST
The initial pregnancy announcement referenced Renaissance paintings of the Madonna when pregnant. Similarly, the introduction of Sir Carter and Rumi calls back to paintings of the Madonna with her son, the Christ child. (Here’s a pretty good example of one that seems as if it may have provided a model for Beyoncé’s post.)
Beyoncé and her husband, Shawn Carter (better known as rapper Jay-Z), welcomed their first child, daughter Blue Ivy Carter, in 2012. Beyoncé most recent album, Lemonade, was released in 2016 and went on to become one of the year’s top-selling albums. Jay-Z’s latest release, 4:44, came out just weeks ago.
The names of Sir Carter and Rumi have been rumored for weeks now, after documents to trademark both names were filed with the government in late June.
For more on Beyoncé’s pregnancy, read Vox’s Constance Grady on the changing demands of celebrity pregnancies, and the ways Jay-Z and Beyoncé use music to control the narrative around their marriage.
Is War of the Planet of the Apes the greatest Biblical epic ever made?
I’m half-kidding. It’s a movie about talking apes, after all, led by a chimpanzee named Caesar, and it’s set in a post-apocalyptic future America, where Woody Harrelson is running a rogue paramilitary force. None of those things appear in the Holy Writ.
But then again, that paramilitary force rallies beneath a tattered American flag spray-painted with the call sign ΑΩ — Alpha Omega, the first and last letters of the Greek alphabet and a name used for God in the Biblical book of Revelation. They force captive apes into servitude in a manner that recalls images of the enslaved Israelites in Egypt being forced to build pyramids. Several scenes — including the final one — clearly paint Caesar, leader of the apes, as a Moses figure.
Rating
And though this last installment in the excellent contemporary Apes trilogy (preceded by 2011’s Rise and 2014’s Dawn) isn’t a direct Bible story retelling, it incorporates elements that echo the Bible, and leans hard on the Biblical epic’s hallmarks, too: vast and ancient-feeling stories of oppression, betrayal, and triumph, mixed with small moments of human drama.
That the movie evokes a Biblical epic so successfully is significant all on its own. Though the form flourished in Hollywood’s Golden Age — when a studio might be willing to spend enormous amounts of money on lavish productions that nearly bankrupted the studio — a more recent wave of Bible movies that popped up a decade after the runaway success of Mel Gibson’s Passion of the Christ haven’t been quite as successful.
In 2014, Son of God made plenty of money at the box office by studiously avoiding any artistic liberties that would offend the risk-averse “faith-based” audience, which loudly protested the more adventurous Noah earlier the same year. Meanwhile, Exodus: Gods and Kings (protested partly for its whitewashed casting) fell flat with critics and audiences, as did a remake of Ben-Hur two years later.
War for the Planet of the Apes, having decoupled itself from the obligation to be faithful to any holy text in particular, is able to do all kinds of things recent Biblical blockbusters couldn’t pull off. It can reference other kinds of movies and other genres. It can layer symbols and code into its characters and settings to evoke several historical narratives at once. It can crack jokes and stage breathtaking action scenes and imagine narrative twists, with no purists coming after them with lit torches crying foul (except bonobo purists).
But it still makes clear choices that emulate Biblical epics — something director Matt Reeves told Entertainment Weekly was intentional.
“We watched Bridge on the River Kwai,” Reeves told the magazine. “We watched The Great Escape. We watched Biblical epics, because I really felt like this movie had to have a Biblical aspect to it. We watched Ben-Hur, The Ten Commandments ... When you surround yourself with something that feels emotionally right, there are connections that make sense to you that somebody else might not see.” Those films, Reeves said, informed War’s “vibe.”
The result of this is a remarkably rich and complex blockbuster — much more than most people expect from a movie starring CGI apes, one of whom sports a puffer vest. And it’s entertaining, too.
To recognize how much of an achievement this is, you only need to look back at the ambitious, muddled mess that was Alien: Covenant, another blockbuster prequel with an ostensibly steady hand on the wheel (Ridley Scott’s) that fell apart because it just couldn’t figure out what it was about. Was it about Satan? Evolved consciousness? The conflict between faith and science? The fall of man? We don’t know, because the movie doesn’t know, either.
Unlike Alien: Covenant, though, War for the Planet of the Apes knows exactly what it’s after. You could say the film is about what makes us human, except using that species-specific word isn’t quite right. Really, it’s more about what makes living beings worthy of saving — that is, it asks what a soul is, and who has one, and what beings with souls owe to one another. Near the end of the previous installment, Dawn of the Planet of the Apes, Caesar declared that the rebel ape Koba wasn’t an ape, which seemed to make tossing him over a ledge to his death more acceptable in the face of the “ape not kill ape” dictum ruling the apes’ civilization.
That might seem to tie a being’s fitness to live to their level of empathy or compassion for others, an addition to the idea in all three films that language plays an important role in separating “human” from animal.
But War for the Planet of the Apes extends this idea by delving into something more: the nature of the soul. That’s no small task for a summer blockbuster.
The two Apes films that came before War tried to imagine a world where primate species might coexist alongside one another. But watching them, there’s an inescapable sense of doom, as telegraphed right there in the title: Only one species will win out, and it has to do so in this movie.
But War for the Planet of the Apes is careful to nuance this inevitability in its universe with two caveats. The apes have to win eventually — these are prequel films to 1974’s Planet of the Apes, after all — but the reason has less to do with their superior nature and more with the idea that human nature is too faulty and degraded to share its spot at the top of the food chain with anyone else. If pride is humanity’s original sin, then pride is also what takes humanity down.
But just because someone is an ape doesn’t make them automatically “good,” or even more “civilized.” To take that path would have skirted dangerously close to a sort of patronizing “noble savage” fallacy, where a whole class of “human” is deemed too simple to imagine wickedness or bear moral culpability, instead living in a naive Edenic state. That’s not the apes. They’ve developed natures and civilizations as morally complex and advanced as the homo sapiens’.
In the Apes universe, both ape and man have complex natures that force the responsibility for choosing to be good or wicked onto the creature themselves. The film is careful to paint a world where apes have to make choices, and humans do, too. What seems to have changed in the apes as they gained the power of speech isn’t so much the ability to form complex thoughts as to make moral choices. And while theologians and philosophers debate whether things called souls exist and what their nature is, the idea of the soul — part of a being that can be saved or damned, formed toward good ends or evil ones — is at the root of how Apes thinks about what it is to be a sentient, morally culpable being.
War for the Planet of the Apes picks up, then, where Dawn left off, a few years out: Most of human civilization has been wiped out by the simian flu, and those who remain are mostly soldiers and military who have banded together to protect what’s left of humanity. In the previous film, Koba managed to start a war with the humans, and now Caesar has to reluctantly finish it.
The film looks like a war film, because it is, with tracking shots that recall films like Platoon and self-conscious references to Apocalypse Now (including a quip — “APE-POCALYPSE NOW” — scrawled on the side of a cave). The apes are hiding out after a bloody battle in which they exterminate all but four humans, whom they send home to their leader as a message.
Following that incident, Caesar’s elder son returns from a long scouting trip with news of a land across the desert where the apes can live in peace. (This is a clear callback to the moment in the Biblical book of Numbers when Joshua — Moses’ protégée and de facto son — and another man, Caleb, return with news of the Promised Land, a place “flowing with milk and honey.”) The apes make plans to leave for safety.
But they’re ambushed in the middle of the night, resulting in a bloody, heartbreaking loss for Caesar, thanks to a ruthless human colonel (Woody Harrelson). While he sends the rest of the tribe off to safety, including his tiny son, Caesar and three loyal apes who won’t leave him (including lovable orangutan Maurice) take off to find and kill the colonel. The journey that follows leads them through several discoveries — including stumbling across a little girl (Amiah Miller) who doesn’t seem to be able to speak, and Bad Ape (Steve Zahn), who’s both the movie’s comic relief and actually a very good ape.
But when Caesar finally finds the colonel, the film tilts into full metaphorical mode. It evokes not just the children of Israel in Egyptian enslavement but also movements that have used that story as inspiration for their own struggle for freedom during the American Civil War and the Civil Rights movement. It also consciously calls to mind the Holocaust, with homages to The Great Escape and soldiers styled to look like both Nazis and white-supremacist militants.
All of those references piled onto one another have a larger effect that’s both damning and cautionary. Humans from almost the dawn of history have sought to dehumanize and delegitimize whole classes of people in order to oppress and destroy them. In a post-apocalyptic future, it’s no different — apes can gain the power of speech and reasoning and still be scorned by the very humans whose civilization is obviously dying out. And even when Caesar discovers the real reason that the colonel and his soldiers have gone rogue, it’s clear that the humans’ motive isn’t really how to best survive, but how to maintain the purity of their kind.
Harrelson is a perfect fit for his role, terrifying and tortured at once, but in War for the Planet of the Apes he can’t hold a candle to Andy Serkis, playing Caesar beneath layers of truly remarkable CGI. If you’re tempted to think most of the work happens in the CGI, it’s worth watching video of Serkis’s performance and transformation to realize that he’s giving an award-worthy performance. Serkis has to embody characteristics of both a chimp and a human, and the result is one of the great epic characters in cinema. Give this man an Oscar.
The end of War for the Planet of the Apes clearly echoes Deuteronomy 34, in which Moses, having freed the children of Israel from bondage in Egypt and led them through 40 years of wandering in the wilderness, finally reaches the Promised Land. Due to an episode of anger and disobedience years earlier, though, Moses isn’t permitted to enter the land. God just shows it to him before he dies. It’s his protégée, Joshua, who takes over.
But Moses’s place in history is secured nonetheless; “No one has ever shown the mighty power or performed the awesome deeds that Moses did in the sight of all Israel,” the book of Deuteronomy records before it moves into accounts of great conquests and triumphs. That War for the Planet of the Apes echoes this account so clearly is a good indication of what could happen next, should more films be made in that genre.
And yet, even if nothing follows this film, War for the Planet of the Apes is an achievement that’s especially welcome in a blockbuster landscape dotted by superheroes, reboots, and flat, unimaginative sequels. It has something to say, and says it with a cinematic sensibility that’s uncommon in most movies, let alone big-budget epics.
And what it wants to say is a warning for us, specifically, in an age where everyone from our political opponents to the world’s refugees are categorized, shoved aside, demonized, and dehumanized. The responsibility that comes with having a soul — or however you prefer to conceive of moral culpability — is to not just our own kind but our neighbor. The Apes universe isn’t our own, just yet.
War for the Planet of the Apes opens in theaters on July 14.
The past week has been bursting with new music — so much so that it’s hard to keep up with every new release. To keep you on track with your summer playlist making, here’s a roundup of some of the best albums and singles put out since last Friday, from a Canadian music collective to a sister rock ’n’ roll group. Happy listening!
Broken Social Scene, the Canadian group of musicians with 17 official members, is finally back with their first new album since 2010. With artists pulled from groups like Stars and Apostles of Hustle, as well as singer-songwriter Feist, the group has no shortage of talent — and their new album, Hug of Thunder, jumps straight back into their emblematic and layered rock/pop/orchestral/noise sound.
The album is a journey through songs about being confident in a lover (“Stay Happy”), Broken Social Scene’s version of protest music (“Mouth Guards of the Apocalypse”), breathy but urgent tracks like the titular “Hug of Thunder,” and cacophonous musical trips that are typical of the band (“Vanity Pail Kids”). Vocals are supplied by several band members, including leader Kevin Drew and newcomer Ariel Engle, the latter of whom joined after marrying another Broken Social Scener, Andrew Whiteman. The record is a welcome return to form from a band that’s been gone too long.

Rhye’s music is the definition of “vibey”: It’s sultry, minimal, and full of slow-jam R&B beats — even the album covers suggest sex. Last Friday, the music-making duo of Mike Milosh and Robin Hannibal dropped a midsummer, two-single set of songs, “Please” and “Summer Days,” perfect for hot and sweaty July afternoons. “Please” sways through a lover’s apology while remaining sweet; “Summer Days” picks up the tempo, switching between contrasting heat and cold. These are Milosh and Hannibal’s first songs in four years — their 2013 album, Woman, is worth a listen if you want more.

Last week, Kesha debuted “Praying,” the first single off her first album since 2012, after spending years locked in a legal battle with producer Dr. Luke. The single and video are emotional and intimate, revealing a painful story about betrayal and hope for the future — though, as Vox’s Caroline Framke points out, the allusions to Beyoncé’s Lemonade detract from the song’s impact.
But on Thursday, Kesha came back with another new song — and she’s taking no shit. “Woman” is happy, loud, and unflinchingly proud of her boss status. “I'm a motherfucking woman, baby, all right,” the chorus repeats, as the video shows the singer smiling and dancing in a gold suit. The song is full of energetic horns from the Dap-Kings, the former backing band for the late, great Sharon Jones, and they provide a powerful grounding sound to Kesha’s normally electronic-infused pop. It’s an excellent summer pop anthem, and it proves Kesha is back.

Toro y Moi’s new album feels different from the band’s back catalogue — it’s packed full of more electronic sounds and computerized percussion noises than their previous efforts. But that isn’t a knock on Boo Boo — Chaz Bear, formerly known as Chaz Bundick, retains the band’s relaxed, Tame Impala-esque vibe while bringing in new elements like more extreme autotune and drum machines. The single “Girl Like You” is a standout, as is the funky “Mirage.”

After video teases and multiple single releases, the Haim sisters’ Something to Tell You is out in full length at long last. The album is similar in sound to 2013’s Days Are Gone: It’s full of soft-ish rock songs that seem like they’re from the late 1970s. I’m not complaining — the whole thing is solid, and the trio of women sounds more confident than ever. “Ready for You” is a great example of their sound as a whole; it’s well-composed, tight, and full of vocal harmonies and snappy percussion.

Selena Gomez has been teasing her new song “Fetish” since her last hit, “Bad Liar,” came out in May. And its name suggests its content — the song is full of steamy lust. The video is just a single close-up shot on Gomez’s glossy lips as she sings the track’s chorus: “You got a fetish for my love / I push you out and you come right back." As Gucci Mane finishes off the song with a verse, Gomez laughs in the background, affirming her easy, hypnotic hold on the rapper, and maybe us too.
(Special synergy bonus: The aforementioned Haim covered “Bad Liar” on BBC Radio 1 last week, showing that no one can resist Gomez’s chart toppers.)

Arcade Fire have been releasing singles steadily this year in the lead-up to their upcoming album, Everything Now, due out July 28. On “Electric Blue,” Régine Chassagne takes lead vocals for a change — the band’s past few songs have featured her husband and co-vocalist Win Butler. This track is a pop number, full of glittery synth and high, soaring vocals. The song pairs well with their first single and title track, “Everything Now” — both are upbeat and tailor-made for the middle of a dance party.
A new study about a rise in onscreen smoking is helping firm up the link between the media’s influences and our real-life behavior.
A recent report by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found that between 2010 and 2016, the number of instances tobacco was used in any calendar week’s top 10-grossing movies had grown by a whopping 80 percent. From 2010 to 2016, the big screen increased overall tobacco impressions — otherwise known as the individual occurrences of tobacco use — by 72 percent, or 1,321 films.
Among R-rated films, the trend grew 90 percent over that six-year period while films that fall under the young-adult-oriented PG-13 rating saw a 43 percent increase. On the other hand, the percentage of youth-oriented films featuring tobacco use dropped to 26 percent in 2016 from 31 percent in 2010. In addition, G and PG films were the only group to see a drop in impressions, which went from 30 to 4 between 2015 and 2016.
The CDC attributes the decline in the percentage of movies featuring tobacco use to “a decline in smoking in movies with larger budgets,” specifically films that spend more than $50 million. For perspective, in 2007 the average cost to produce a major studio movie — without marketing — was $65 million, which seems to be leading to substantially more films losing the presence of tobacco than are retaining it.
The drop in the percentage of youth-oriented films featuring tobacco use, as well as the dramatic decline in tobacco occurrences in G and PG films, is positive. Still, tobacco impressions within films geared toward teens and young adults hasn’t improved since 2010. If it had, the CDC reports that all youth-rated films would have been completely smoke-free by 2015. Instead, “the average number of tobacco incidents increased 55 percent in youth-rated movies with any tobacco depiction,” a result of five of Hollywood’s six major movie companies — all of which have corporate tobacco depiction policies — featuring more tobacco use.
The answer to the issue lies with where, how much, and what type of tobacco is being used in cinema. In short, fewer movies are featuring not just more smoking but more kinds of tobacco use. That concentrated increase is once again raising concerns about the relationship between tobacco’s presence in media and an increased likelihood of picking up the habit.
The CDC cast a wide net for how it defines tobacco use in its July 7 report, counting any incidents that feature cigarettes, cigars, pipes, hookah, smokeless tobacco products, and electronic cigarettes. That broad classification is pivotal to understanding both the increase in impressions and the larger impact of tobacco use on youth.
A CDC fact sheet reveals that cigarette use among middle and high school students was down by around 50 percent between 2011 and 2016. However, 11.3 percent of high school students reported use of electronic cigarettes in 2016, up from the 1.5 percent in 2011. Middle schoolers also saw a jump, with 4.3 percent claiming they’ve used an electronic cigarette versus the 0.6 percent from 2011. CDC data from 2013 shows that around 46 percent of high school students have tried a tobacco product and more than 31 percent had tried two or more.
If these tobacco use trends continue, “about one of every 13 Americans aged 17 years or younger alive today” will die early of smoking-related illnesses, according to the CDC. But tobacco products don’t just cause smoking-related health issues. The World Health Organization also found that teens who smoke are three times more likely to try alcohol and 22 times more likely to try cocaine, proving nicotine functions as a gateway drug.
But what does that have to do with Hollywood? A lot, according to experts.
In a 2012 report on preventing smoking and tobacco use among both youth and young adults, the Office of the Surgeon General identified a “causal relationship between depictions of smoking in the movies and the initiation of smoking among young persons.” The report concluded that youth and young adults who are more heavily exposed to onscreen smoking are around two to three times as likely to start smoking as those who receive less exposure.
A comprehensive report from the National Cancer Institute came to a similar conclusion. According to NCI, watching smoking scenes in the 1994 movie Reality Bites “promoted increased personal intentions to smoke among adolescent never smokers.” Conversely, those “viewing a movie that portrayed the tobacco industry in a negative light” experienced “a short-term reduction in intentions to smoke among adult smokers and former smokers.”
All these findings reinforce that a diminishing presence of smoking or tobacco imagery can decrease chances of use. In fact, as the percentage of movies featuring tobacco has decreased, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration has reported a drop in the use of cigarettes by teens from nearly 8 percent in 2011 to 4.2 percent in 2015.
This correlation between onscreen smoking and potential personal use reignites a longstanding debate over ways other media content potentially influences behavioral trends.
New York magazine writer Matt Zoller Seitz argued that there are only certain times Hollywood will take responsibility for its influences on society, and that’s typically when entertainment creates a positive influence. However, “the Surgeon General found a ‘causal relationship.’ If this is the case, my next question has nothing to do with smoking: What other things do movies (and by extension popular culture) ‘encourage’ people to do, or validate them doing?” he tweeted.
He continued:
When I read reports establishing causal relationships between movie/TV behavior and real life behavior, I think of the violence issue. ... Moviemakers are happy to claim a causal relationship with life when the outcome is good or neutral, but not when bad stuff happens. When I hear that art influences life, and then hear that it doesn't, I picture the RAISING ARIZONA guy: "Well, which is it, young fella?”
The MPAA’s system includes warnings for violence beginning at its G rating. And though smoking does occur in G- and PG-rated movies, the system doesn’t address drug use (which includes tobacco) until its PG-13 classification. Individuals and groups, such as those involved in a 2016 class-action lawsuit against the MPAA, have been pushing for years to get smoking banned from any film without an R rating. The suit claims that “... youth-rated movies recruited approximately 4.6 million adolescents in the United States to smoke, of which approximately 1.5 million are expected to die from tobacco-induced diseases in years to come.”
The MPAA defended its current system, stating that restrictions on depictions of smoking are in violation of the First Amendment. A California judge sided with the MPAA last November, dismissing the case.
Still, it seems the CDC’s latest report may have injected new life into the debate over public health, media influence, and censorship.
The 2017 Emmy nominations were always going to go in a bit of a different direction than we’ve gotten used to in recent years. Not only is there more TV to choose from than ever, but some of the awards’ most reliable reigning champions — like Game of Thrones and Downton Abbey — weren’t eligible this year, leaving room for newcomers such as Stranger Things and This Is Us to sweep in and make their presence known.
But even while we expected a fair amount of upheaval, we still found ourselves pretty surprised by some of this year’s nominations — and omissions — in ways that ranged from great to bad to downright confusing. (And to be clear: “Surprises” isn’t the same as “snubs”; I’m not surprised that Netflix’s Stranger Things cleaned up while the final season of HBO’s excellent drama The Leftovers was almost completely shut out, but I’m not happy about it, either.)
Here are the 11 biggest surprises from the 2017 Emmy nominations.
The second season of Mr. Robot might not have premiered to nearly as much acclaim as the first, but it’s still a shock to realize that star Rami Malek — who won Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series in 2016 — wasn’t even nominated in the category this time around. The 2017 drama races certainly got shaken up by a wave of popular new shows in the field, including This Is Us and Westworld (both of which earned nods in the Lead Actor category), but it’s still rare to have a previous winner not get a repeat nomination the following year.
If it’s any consolation to Malek, though, he was far from the only surprising omission in the acting categories...
NBC’s The Good Place and Netflix’s One Day at a Time are both excellent comedies. With that said, it was unlikely that the Emmys would recognize either show as such, given the awards’ history of honoring the same comedies over and over again — and lo, that’s exactly what happened this year with another wave of nominations for Veep and an eighth consecutive Outstanding Comedy Series nod for Modern Family.
Still: Danson and Moreno both gave fantastic supporting performances on their respective shows. Moreno grounded One Day at a Time with an endlessly fun turn as a passionate family matriarch; Danson delivered one of the year’s best comedic performances, period, as a jaunty celestial being. But the most surprising thing about their omissions is that Danson and Moreno qualify as the kind of entertainment royalty Hollywood loves to recognize — and they still couldn’t snag a nomination, which is a real shame.
Netflix’s animated comedy/existential drama BoJack Horseman is a show that purposely defies definition — which, unfortunately, undoubtedly hurts it as far as awards contention goes. But Kristen Schaal, who plays unstable child star turned adult train wreck Sarah Lynn, managed to break the show’s “streak” of going unrecognized by the Emmys with a well-deserved voiceover nod for “That’s Too Much, Man!” — one of the show’s best episodes to date. BoJack Horseman still deserves more accolades than it gets, but it’s still a thrill to see Schaal included here.
Adlon’s nomination in this category is another great surprise. FX’s Better Things — which Adlon created, writes, directs, and stars in — is the kind of intimate, bracingly funny, and generally underwatched series that tends to draw critical acclaim and not much else. But Adlon is fresh off her TCA Awards nomination for Individual Achievement in Comedy, and her name came up again on Emmy nomination morning alongside more predictable names like Lily Tomlin and Julia Louis-Dreyfus. It’s exactly the kind of nomination we might not have placed bets on but are very excited to see.
Kathryn Hahn has been churning out some of television’s most reliably sharp performances for years, portraying an impressively wide range of characters — from an exhausted mom (Girls) to a casually merciless campaign manager (Parks and Recreation) to a horny-as-hell writer (I Love Dick). But she’s been a particular bright spot on Amazon’s Transparent, where she took the role of Rabbi Raquel and made every inch of the character’s vulnerability and determination feel achingly real. Despite the Emmys’ ongoing affection for Transparent and its actors, this is Hahn’s first individual nomination, and it’s a welcome relief.
The final season of HBO’s Girls was one of the show’s best, but the only people to get acting nominations out of it were those who competed in the guest categories. While Becky Ann Baker earned a (long-overdue) nod for playing Hannah’s long-suffering mother, Matthew Rhys and Riz Ahmed’s Girls nominations — for their respective roles as two men who collide into Hannah’s life to varying disastrous levels — meant that both actors earned two nominations apiece. (Rhys is also nominated for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama for The Americans; Ahmed is also nominated for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Limited Series, for The Night Of.) Nice work, Boys!
After eight seasons on the air, RuPaul’s Drag Race has officially begun to dominate the reality competition categories in a fittingly spectacular fashion. The show earned seven nominations — for reality competition series, reality host, makeup, hairstyling, casting, editing, and costumes. (The “half” I’m referring to comes courtesy of a nomination for “Untucked,” Drag Race’s aftershow that airs behind-the-scenes footage on YouTube the morning after every episode.)
Related
Though RuPaul once famously declared that he’d rather have “an enema than an Emmy,” the charismatic host has nevertheless now brought his world of gender-bending drama more into pop culture’s mainstream consciousness than ever — and in fact, he won the Emmy for reality show host in 2016. No matter how Drag Race fares in September, getting this many nominations is a clear sign that the show has traveled well outside its initial audience of preexisting drag fans.
Yes, you heard me right: Martha Stewart and Snoop Dogg are officially an Emmy-nominated duo. The two earned a joint nomination for Outstanding Host for a Reality or Reality-Competition Program category for their work on Martha & Snoop’s Potluck Dinner Party, an amazing show title that immediately answers the question, “Why?” Why NOT, I say! Besides, Tina Fey and Amy Poehler paved the way by sharing a nomination in 2016 for hosting SNL, and I like to think they’d approve of their successors being none other than Martha Stewart and Snoop Dogg for the novelty factor alone.
Black Mirror’s anthology format — wherein each episode tells an entirely different story with an entirely different cast and creative team — works well for the show’s needs, but also makes the series a little tricky to categorize as far as awards nominations go. So even though I considered its gorgeous “San Junipero” chapter to be one of 2016’s very best TV episodes, I didn’t expect it to be recognized as such — but the Emmys proved me wrong. The episode was nominated in the “Television Movie” category, alongside offerings like HBO’s The Wizard of Lies and NBC’s Dolly Parton’s Christmas of Many Colors: Circle of Love. An eclectic category for sure, but hey, do what you have to do, “San Junipero”!
In a curious twist, Liev Schreiber became this year’s most nominated performer by amassing not one, not two, but three nominations. Not only did he earn his third nomination for Lead Actor in a Drama for Showtime’s Ray Donovan, he also snagged two more in the Outstanding Narrator category, for HBO sports documentaries Muhammad Ali: Only One and UConn: The March to Madness.
It’s true: Stranger Things’ breakout star Barb managed to elbow her way out of the Upside Down and land actress Shannon Purser an Emmy nomination in the Guest Actress in a Drama category. Purser, who made her TV debut with Stranger Things, joins the likes of The Americans’ Alison Wright (getting her first nomination for this crucial role), the titanic Cecily Tyson (nominated for playing Viola Davis’s mother on How to Get Away With Murder), and The Leftovers’ Ann Dowd (landing the show its first and only Emmy nomination ever).
I’ll be blunt: This is ridiculous. Purser’s time on Stranger Things as the show’s ill-fated teen slut shamer was brief, and more memorable for fans’ outsize reaction to her death than anything she did onscreen. More than most any other submission on the entire Emmys ballot, this nomination is a perfect demonstration of the lack of scrutiny among Emmy voters that shuts out deserving nominees every year in favor of something that broke through the pop culture zeitgeist.
In conclusion, the criminally un-nominated Rita Moreno may have said it best.
The 2017 Emmy nominations were everything exciting and enervating about the Television Academy all at once.
Related
The morning was buoyed by a record five new series nominated in the drama series category (a number that can’t be approached outside of the very early days of the Emmys, when everything was new), with one of those new shows, HBO’s Westworld, tying for the most nominations for any program with 22.
But then you look at the other program that received 22 nominations — and it’s Saturday Night Live, which just completed its 42nd season and is the most nominated series in Emmy history.
The Emmys have gotten spectacularly good at giving TV fans just enough surprises to keep them invested, then returning, again and again, to the same established favorites. Sure, they say, you might be excited about Stranger Things’ 18 nominations now, but what about in five years when you hate it, and we keep rubber stamping its nomination? How will you feel then?
So go the Emmys every year, and so go our deep dives into the awards’ nominees and stats. Here are the best and worst — the winners and losers, if you will — of the 2017 Emmy nominations.
I wrote about this possibility. I even predicted it would happen. But I never thought it actually would. Surely the Emmys were too staid, too safe and bland in their choices, to ever nominate five new dramas in the same category.
But nope! The Emmys nominated Netflix’s The Crown, Hulu’s The Handmaid’s Tale, Netflix’s Stranger Things, NBC’s This Is Us, and HBO’s Westworld for one of their top two series prizes. (The two returning nominees were AMC’s Better Call Saul and Netflix’s House of Cards.)
The series come from four completely different networks. They even come from the three major sectors of the industry — broadcast, cable, and streaming — with This Is Us being the first broadcast network drama series nominated since CBS’s The Good Wife back in 2011. The nominees also reflected a variety of levels of prior Emmy success: Handmaid’s marked the first series nomination for up-and-comer Hulu, while Westworld marked the 18th Emmy ceremony where HBO is nominated in this category out of the past 19. (The sole exception was the 2008 ceremony.)
And these weren’t cursory nominations, either. The five series counted 77 nominations among them, with all receiving major nominations in acting categories and four out of the five (every show but This Is Us) also receiving nominations in both the writing and directing categories. (Handmaid’s even received two directing nominations.) The five also took every available nomination for casting in a drama series — often a good indicator category for what the Academy truly loves.
A lot of this is thanks to a weird confluence of factors hitting all at once, including a couple of open spots in the category (thanks to the absence of Game of Thrones and Downton Abbey) and most of the returning nominees having weak points. (The three eligible shows pushed out were FX’s The Americans, Showtime’s Homeland, and USA’s Mr. Robot.) This situation almost certainly won’t repeat itself — and it seems likely at least a couple of these will be one-time nominees, thanks to the vagaries of Emmy dynamics and the return of Game of Thrones to the category next year. But five new nominees in the same category is a real Emmy achievement. We may never see it happen again.
In 2016, Netflix was nominated for 54 Emmys. Not bad, right? Well, in 2017, the streaming network is nominated for 91 Emmys. Only HBO — with 111 nominations — tops it. That’s an increase of just under 69 percent. Netflix probably has only one thing to say about that: Nice.
What’s even more impressive is that three of the drama series nominees — The Crown, House of Cards, and Stranger Things — are Netflix shows. The drama series category is typically the most competitive at the Emmys, so the last time a network pushed three of its shows into this category at once was in 2001, when NBC managed it with ER, Law & Order, and (eventual champion) The West Wing. Even HBO couldn’t pull this off (though it was nominated thrice in the comedy series category in 2012 for Curb Your Enthusiasm, Girls, and Veep).
And Netflix didn’t stop there. It was nominated in almost every other section of the ballot as well, including comedy series nominations for Master of None and Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt.
This is another one of those illusory achievements that’s mostly due to good timing. House of Cards’ nomination total crumbled a bit this year, which suggests it’s on its way out with the Academy, and something like Stranger Things could find it very hard to capture lightning in a bottle twice. But still. Good on Netflix!
(Though far less impressive than Netflix’s total, both Amazon and Hulu, Netflix’s main competitors, had solid mornings, too, with Amazon pulling in 16 nominations — standing pat with its 2016 total — and Hulu going from two nominations in 2016 to 18 this year.)
Just four limited series combined for 63 nominations in the categories honoring such programs. (That’s actually a slightly better average nomination total than those five new dramas with 77 nominations among them.) Those four limited series aired on just two networks — HBO’s Big Little Lies and The Night Of; and FX’s Fargo and Feud: Bette and Joan.
Though FX was pushed out of the drama series category (about which more in a bit), which had to sting, it and HBO remain the only two networks that are at all competitive across the board in the limited series, comedy series, and drama series categories. (Netflix, though a growing Emmy behemoth, doesn’t program limited series — yet. It sure tried with its Gilmore Girls revival this year, though!)
HBO received nominations in all three categories (as well as the variety talk category, with Last Week Tonight with John Oliver), while FX also snagged a comedy series nomination for Atlanta, as well as nominations for a bunch of its actors.
The two networks’ nomination totals didn’t plummet either — which was unusual for cable networks this year. (AMC, for instance, fell by just under 50 percent, from 24 in 2016 to 13 in 2017.) FX fell slightly, from 56 in 2016 to 55 this year (a fall that would have been completely wiped out by The Americans hanging on in drama series). And HBO rose considerably, from 94 in 2016 to 111 in 2017. That’s only an 18 percent raise — but when you’re the most-nominated network, year in and year out, any increase is tough. What’s more, HBO pulled this off without Game of Thrones’ help, making the whole thing even more impressive.
Increasingly, it seems, the major Emmy players are HBO, Netflix, and FX, in that order. And it’s hard to imagine anybody else catching up any time soon.
As mentioned, AMC’s nominations total collapsed, largely thanks to not having any limited series to compete with. (Last year, its total was boosted by the John le Carre adaptation The Night Manager.) Indeed, nine of its 13 nominations are thanks to Better Call Saul. Without that show, AMC wouldn’t really have… anything. That’s a big decline for a network that won this category six times in seven years with Mad Men and Breaking Bad.
Things are even more hectic over at Showtime, the only network to interrupt AMC’s streak (when Homeland won in 2013). Yes, the network’s total nominations drop was smaller than AMC’s — going from 22 to 15 — but the drop came thanks to no Showtime series cracking the drama or comedy series categories, with longtime drama actress nominee Claire Danes (of Homeland) also being pushed out.
Both networks still have some plum nominations — like all those Saul noms and major acting nominations for Showtime’s Ray Donovan and Shameless (to say nothing of Mandy Patinkin randomly resurfacing in the supporting actor drama category for Homeland). But both have lost the heat they had just five years ago in favor of streaming networks and FX.
Yeah, after a season that was heavily discussed and in the headlines, after a season that saw the president of the United States go after it on his Twitter feed, Saturday Night Live was going to do pretty well. And it did, hauling in 22 nominations, including an acting nomination for Alec Baldwin for playing Donald Trump. (Baldwin may as well just have the trophy shipped to him right now, which is too bad, because he’s not even that good.)
That total is inflated somewhat by SNL’s ability to compete in many of the technical categories that apply only to live productions — and thus allow the show to compete in less competitive categories. But it also received three separate nominations in the supporting actress in a comedy category, so the love for the show was real.
I’d insert a boilerplate rant about how SNL’s milquetoast, broad, obvious satire is nowhere near television’s best, but the show is mostly just getting nominated for getting under Donald Trump’s skin, so I won’t pretend the nominations speak to the show’s quality.
Look, even the people on Modern Family would probably admit their show is so far past its prime that the phrase “past its prime” ceased to apply in, like, 2014. But here it is! Nominated for its eighth straight Emmy in the comedy series category! Thus does it join the august company of shows like All in the Family and Cheers. Sure.
The big surprise of Emmy morning 2016 were the major nominations for FX’s The Americans, which finally cracked the top three drama categories, with nominations for the series itself and lead performers Keri Russell and Matthew Rhys. Russell and Rhys repeated their performance this morning, but the series itself fell out of the race, after a season critics were ever so slightly less kind to than the previous seasons.
Similarly, Amazon’s Transparent, which has won numerous Emmys across its first two seasons, dropped out of the running, despite a bunch of nominations in other major categories. (In that respect, it resembles HBO’s very similar Girls, which received series nominations for its first two years, then left the category for the rest of its run.) Transparent, too, had some slightly less kind critical notices in its third season than for its first two.
It just goes to show: You can’t have a disappointing season with those crack judges of talent, the Emmys. (Congratulations to House of Cards on its fifth consecutive drama series nomination.)
The Leftovers will go down in history as one of the best TV shows of its era, a searing, beautiful tribute to loss and grief and depression. Anyway, across its three seasons, it received one nomination, for guest actor Ann Dowd (who was great, admittedly). Hey, that’s only one less nomination than The Wire.
There were a bunch of articles about how Bill Maher’s show Real Time with Bill Maher might not be nominated because he used racial slurs on the program right as voting was beginning. Ha ha ha, those articles know nothing about the Emmys! Of course Real Time was nominated again, even though that show is increasingly powered only by its own smugness.
Many great actors — Riz Ahmed, Matthew Rhys, and Ann Dowd, for three — received two Emmy nominations this year. But only one actor received three. Only one actor received two of those nominations in the same category.
I speak, of course, of Liev Schreiber, our greatest living actor, nominated thrice for his lead performance in Ray Donovan then for his narration work on the HBO Sports documentaries Muhammad Ali: Only One and UConn: The March to Madness.
Of course, he’s nominated opposite Meryl Streep in that narration category, so I guess he’d better pin all his hopes on Ray Donovan. Better luck in 2018, Liev Schreiber!
Correction: Due to several incorrect nomination totals provided by the Television Academy, the numbers of nominations received by several networks were under-counted. We’ve corrected the totals for HBO, FX, and AMC — as well as associated percentages — throughout.
The nominations for the 69th annual Primetime Emmy Awards were announced Thursday in Los Angeles, with Veep’s Anna Chlumsky and Criminal Minds’ Shemar Moore reading the list of nominees in the Emmys’ most prominent categories. (The live-streamed announcement does not include the full list, which spans almost 100 categories in total.)
The 2017 Emmys are set to be a more interesting round of awards than usual, and not just because Stephen Colbert will be hosting the ceremony come September 17. Be sure to keep an eye on the drama categories in particular; this year offers a rare opportunity for a real shake-up.
New shows like This Is Us, The Handmaid’s Tale, The Crown, Westworld, and Stranger Things grabbed plenty of nominations — with Westworld tying Saturday Night Live for the most nominations across the board, at 22, and Stranger Things netting 18. Meanwhile, some of the shows that’ve been reliable go-tos in the past few years weren’t even up for consideration this year: Downton Abbey ended its run before last year’s awards, and Game of Thrones didn’t air a new season during the eligibility period for this year’s awards (neither, for that matter, did the new Twin Peaks).
In the limited series categories, FX’s Feud: Bette and Joan reigned supreme with 18 nominations, followed by HBO’s Big Little Lies (16 nominations), Fargo (16 nominations), and The Night Of (13 nominations).
In the comedy series categories, perennial favorites like Veep and Modern Family stayed strong, though there was still room for Donald Glover’s Atlanta to sneak in for consideration.
And Saturday Night Live cleaned up with its aforementioned 22 nominations, which include nods for Variety Sketch Series and multiple acting categories.
The 2017 Emmy Awards ceremony will take place on Sunday, September 17, at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles. It will be broadcast live on CBS and hosted by Colbert. The Creative Arts Emmys — which reward programs’ technical aspects — will be handed out in Los Angeles on Saturday, September 9, and Sunday, September 10, and broadcast September 16 on FXX.
Here are the 2017 Emmy nominees in all of the awards’ major categories. For the complete list, visit the Emmys’ website.
Atlanta
Black-ish
Master of None
Modern Family
Silicon Valley
Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt
Veep
Better Call Saul
The Crown
The Handmaid’s Tale
House of Cards
Stranger Things
This Is Us
Westworld
Viola Davis (How to Get Away With Murder)
Claire Foy (The Crown)
Elisabeth Moss (The Handmaid’s Tale)
Keri Russell (The Americans)
Evan Rachel Wood (Westworld)
Robin Wright (House of Cards)
Sterling K. Brown (This Is Us)
Anthony Hopkins (Westworld)
Bob Odenkirk (Better Call Saul)
Matthew Rhys (The Americans)
Liev Schreiber (Ray Donovan)
Kevin Spacey (House of Cards)
Milo Ventimiglia (This Is Us)
Pamela Adlon (Better Things)
Jane Fonda (Grace and Frankie)
Allison Janney (Mom)
Ellie Kemper (Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt)
Julia Louis-Dreyfus (Veep)
Tracee Ellis Ross (Black-ish)
Lily Tomlin (Grace and Frankie)
Anthony Anderson (Black-ish)
Aziz Ansari (Master of None)
Zach Galifianakis (Baskets)
Donald Glover (Atlanta)
William H. Macy (Shameless)
Jeffrey Tambor (Transparent)
Jonathan Banks (Better Call Saul)
Michael Kelly (House of Cards)
John Lithgow (The Crown)
Jeffrey Wright (Westworld)
Mandy Patinkin (Homeland)
David Harbour (Stranger Things)
Ron Cephas Jones (This Is Us)
Uzo Aduba (Orange is the New Black)
Ann Dowd (The Handmaid’s Tale)
Chrissy Metz (This Is Us)
Millie Bobby Brown (Stranger Things)
Samira Wiley (The Handmaid’s Tale)
Thandie Newton (Westworld)
Ben Mendelsohn (Bloodline)
Hank Azaria (Ray Donovan)
Gerald McRaney (This Is Us)
B.D. Wong (Mr. Robot)
Brian Tyree Henry (This Is Us)
Denis O’Hare (This Is Us)
Cicely Tyson (How to Get Away With Murder)
Laverne Cox (Orange Is the New Black)
Shannon Purser (Stranger Things)
Alison Wright (The Americans)
Alexis Bledel (The Handmaid’s Tale)
Ann Dowd (The Leftovers)
Big Little Lies
Fargo
Feud: Bette and Joan
Genius
The Night Of
Carrie Coon (Fargo)
Felicity Huffman (American Crime)
Nicole Kidman (Big Little Lies)
Jessica Lange (Feud: Bette and Joan)
Susan Sarandon (Feud: Bette and Joan)
Reese Witherspoon (Big Little Lies)
Riz Ahmed (The Night Of)
Benedict Cumberbatch (Sherlock)
Robert De Niro (The Wizard of Lies)
Ewan McGregor (Fargo)
Geoffrey Rush (Genius)
John Turturro (The Night Of)
Alexander Skarsgard (Big Little Lies)
Alfred Molina (Feud: Bette and Joan)
David Thewlis (Fargo)
Bill Camp (The Night Of)
Stanley Tucci (Feud: Bette and Joan)
Michael K. Williams (The Night Of)
Regina King (American Crime)
Laura Dern (Big Little Lies)
Jackie Hoffman (Feud: Bette and Joan)
Shailene Woodley (Big Little Lies)
Judy David (Feud: Bette and Joan)
Michelle Pfeiffer (The Wizard of Lies)
Louie Anderson (Baskets)
Ty Burrell (Modern Family)
Alec Baldwin (Saturday Night Live)
Tituss Burgess (Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt)
Tony Hale (Veep)
Matt Walsh (Veep)
Leslie Jones (Saturday Night Live)
Kate McKinnon (Saturday Night Live)
Vanessa Bayer (Saturday Night Live)
Kathryn Hahn (Transparent)
Judith Light (Transparent)
Anna Chlumsky (Veep)
Matthew Rhys (Girls)
Riz Ahmed (Girls)
Lin-Manuel Miranda (Saturday Night Live)
Dave Chappelle (Saturday Night Live)
Tom Hanks (Saturday Night Live)
Hugh Laurie (Saturday Night Live)
Wanda Sykes (Black-ish)
Becky Ann Baker (Girls)
Melissa McCarthy (Saturday Night Live)
Carrie Fisher (Catastrophe)
Angela Bassett (Master of None)
Kristen Wiig (Saturday Night Live)
The Amazing Race
American Ninja Warrior
Project Runway
RuPaul’s Drag Race
Top Chef
The Voice
Full Frontal With Samantha Bee
Jimmy Kimmel Live!
Last Week Tonight With John Oliver
The Late Late Show With James Corden
The Late Show With Stephen Colbert
Real Time With Bill Maher
Billy on the Street
Documentary Now!
Drunk History
Portlandia
Saturday Night Live
Tracey Ullman’s Show
Last January, the Sundance Film Festival buzzed with praise for David Lowery’s A Ghost Story, a film he shot in secret with the help of two actors who’d appeared in his breakout 2013 film Ain’t Them Bodies Saints: Casey Affleck and Rooney Mara. On the heels of kind reviews for Lowery’s big-budget family film for Disney, a remake of Pete’s Dragon, A Ghost Story returns the director to his indie roots and benefits from the kind of creative freedom that comes from working apart from the studio system.
Set in a house in semi-rural Texas, it’s the tale of a couple separated by death — and then it becomes something else altogether. Some of the effects are almost childlike; our main ghost, played by Affleck, is represented by a bedsheet with eyeholes punched out. But to use a perhaps too-obvious critical cliché, it’s a haunting film, full of sadness and rumination on the nature of time and memory.
I met Lowery at a cafe in Brooklyn the day A Ghost Story opened in theaters to talk about the film and his influences — everything from Virginia Woolf to 2001: A Space Odyssey — and even though I’d seen the film twice and read lots of interviews with the director, I kept learning new things that delighted and surprised me (the interview audio is filled with my gasps). I learned that his first film bore a striking resemblance to this one, that his grandfather was a truly adventuresome soul when it came to showing cinema to his grandson, and which scene in the movie was Lowery’s cameo. I was also surprised to find out that a certain famous pop star co-wrote a song on the film’s soundtrack.
Here are 10 things I learned from my chat with Lowery that made A Ghost Story even more enchanting, haunting, and meaningful.
This transcript has been edited for length and clarity.
Are there any ghost stories you particularly love?
There are a great many that I've loved. The Innocents by Jack Clayton is probably my favorite haunted house movie — It's The Turn of the Screw, and I don't know why they gave it a new title, but they did. That movie is really a wonderful ghost story. Ugetsu by Kenji Mizoguchi is one that I think about a lot. I saw it probably two years prior to making A Ghost Story, but it was nonetheless on my mind a lot, the folkloric aspects of that film.
Poltergeist definitely was a big influence on me. My parents were wise enough not to let me see it as a child, so I never saw it until high school, but I saw images from it in a magazine when I was very, very young, and it just transfixed me. I just was obsessed with it. The very first movie I ever made when I got a camcorder, when I was 7 years old, was called Poltergeist and starred my brother in a bedsheet. It was just me trying to make a ghost story. It's always been there. That goal has always been intrinsic to why I make movies, apparently.
Even the bedsheet.
Yeah, as a 7-year-old, that was the easy way to make a ghost. Now it's a little something different, but that's always been there.
I could go on and on. I mean all the Conjuring movies are really good. I love those movies. Conjuring 2 I talk about all the time, because I think in spite of how goofy it gets and how over the top it gets and how silly the screenplay gets, it's undeniably emotional. And the relationship between the two lead characters I find to be truly beautiful — one of the most beautiful marriages in modern cinema. I don't know why it's in that movie, but I tip my hat to James Wan for including such a beautiful representation of a couple in love in the middle of this phantasmagoric special effects movie.
Which is truly terrifying, ’cause I get scared by everything. Oh, my God. I mean, I watched those movies like this [holds hands over eyes]. I need to see them all again because I haven't really seen but a third of any given one. In those movies you're always so relieved when the sun comes up and you're like, “Okay, I can kind of breathe easy for five minutes,” and then when the sun goes down and you just know you're in for it again, I just cover my eyes. I just can't handle it. I usually have to leave the theater at least once in those movies. Just to like, relieve the tension. But I love them and I go back all the time.
Another one I've been thinking a lot about because Jonathan Demme passed away is Beloved. Which is about so many things, but it's a ghost story. And it is a tragic, a truly tragic one, but a truly beautiful one. You don't think about that movie or the book in terms of the horror genre, but it's terrific on all sorts of levels, both historical and supernatural. It is in the strictest sense a traditional ghost story, and a beautiful one. I really want to revisit the film.
There's so much possibility in the ghost story genre.
Oh, completely. I don't imagine this is the last film I make that involves ghosts. It is rich and ripe with possibility, and I don't feel I'm done with it yet.
I want the backstory of the ghost in the flowered bedsheet across the way from our ghost.
Oh, that was my cameo.
That was you?
Yeah. That was me. A costume designer found the floral print sheet. I had a backstory for it. It’s a grandmother who passed away in her home, and is waiting for her grandchildren to come visit. So when she says she's waiting for someone and can't remember who, that's who it is. She realizes they're never coming, and it's horribly sad. But that's what that was meant to be.
I've seen A Ghost Story described as a “literary” film. But to me, the film is literary like a poem is literary. You're feeling what's happening in the world when you’re seeing it.
Completely. I'm a literature major — never got my degree, but nonetheless, I love literature. I love the written word and the many forms to which it can be applied. And film can be literary. I don't think it's fair to equate it to a novel or to prose, but I do think poetry is a wonderful equivalent.
The way in which images can be used in a film is exactly the same way that words can be used in a poem. And the way you use words in a poem, creating a rhythm and juxtapositions, is exactly what I'm doing as a filmmaker. So to call the film poetic is not a cliché to me; it's often what I aspire to do in my movies, and I love that it can be perceived as such.
Have you written poetry?
I try to. Not often. I would never show them to anybody. I mean, in high school I wrote tons of poetry. I had the Moleskine journal, just writing love poems to the girls I had crushes on, all day long.
Once I started studying poetry in college and understanding its form, I really became fascinated by it in a formal sense and in a structural sense — in the way in which emotion can come through that form. And I've tried to practice that here and there throughout my adulthood. I'm so fascinated by the structure and the rigidity of it. That so much can come through that rigidity — that's really beautiful to me and   something I should spend more time focused on.
In short, I do. I have written poetry, I do write poetry, but I would never show it to anybody.
Do you read it at all while you're shooting?
I don't. You know, Casey's a big poetry fan. He has a lot committed to memory, and he'll just spout some sonnet. He just loves reading it. He described it to me as being a short time commitment, but you get so much out of it. You just can spend five minutes reading a poem, or less, and it is such a rich and considered piece of work. If a poem has reached publication, enough thought has been put into it that you can engage with it as if it's a full meal. And it doesn't take much time, but it can enrich five minutes of your life to such a wonderful degree.
So he's a big fan of it, and has introduced me to the pleasures of just kicking back and reading poetry. There's something that I've always thought of in far more academic contexts, and the idea that you could just take a poem, and just enjoy it. That it's   pleasurable.
You don't have to try to “figure it out.”
You don't have to try to figure it out; you can just enjoy it. It's a beautiful concept, and I thank him for reminding me that that's at the root of the art form.
Speaking of literature: While I was watching the movie I kept thinking of this thing David Foster Wallace wrote in a letter to someone: “Every love story is a ghost story.”
Yeah, that was the title of his first posthumous biography, isn't it?
Yes. I found out he had attributed the quote to Virginia Woolf. Apparently it's not her, but he kept attributing it to her.
Oh, that's amazing.
And of course her story “A Haunted House” provides the epigraph for your movie and shows up in the film itself.
This is so bizarre.
You were saying before that you hadn't really thought of A Ghost Story as a love story at first. But it seemed like it was inevitable, which made me think of the quotation. Do you think there’s something particular to ghost stories that lends them to also being love stories?
Definitely. I am married and am deeply in love with my wife, and spend way too much time thinking about one of us dying before the other. That is a thought that is never far from my mind, because I don't want to lose her. And I don't want her to lose me. Me not wanting her to lose me is largely an extension of my own ego, and my not wanting to lose her is a fear of being alone, but nonetheless those are circumstances which I spend far too much time pondering.
The ideas that are implicit to ghost stories are a source of comfort when you're thinking about losing someone or being gone from someone you love.
In what way?
In that you could still communicate; that that communion can still exist between the two of you. I don't know why I'm doing this right now, but I'm gonna paraphrase Anne Hathaway in Interstellar, where she said something like, “Love is the one thing in this universe that can transcend time and space.”
That was the dorkiest quote in that movie, but nonetheless, it's such a comforting thought. It’s such a source of ease when you are finding yourself worrying about losing someone or being pulled out of someone else's life.
So, I don't actually believe in ghosts — I mean I kind of do, but not really. I don't   believe that when I'm gone I'll be able to be the Patrick Swayze to my wife's Demi Moore, but I do find comfort in the thought of that. And it does satisfy my ego to think that I don't necessarily have to be gone forever, or that she doesn't have to be gone from me if that's what fate has in store for us.
So I think that's why they work well in terms of ghost stories; the idea that a relationship between two people can transcend death is very meaningful. It's very, very romantic; it's deeply romantic. And it is a great source of comfort.
It's interesting you say that; the second time I watched it, my husband was in the other room. When it was over, I had to go talk to him and tell him that I felt sad, though not in a bad way — just a melancholy way. The movie makes you think about the inevitability of being separated from your loved one by death. It’s going to happen someday.
But the movie’s really more of a sad story for the ghost, isn’t it?
I guess that's the flip side. The ghost gets to do exactly what we wish we could do — stay close to our loved ones after we die — and it turns out to be an epic bummer.
I suppose inasmuch as I do feel that my desire to haunt my wife — which sounds really creepy now that I'm saying it — after I'm gone is an extension of my ego, this movie is a recognition of the fact that I need to let go of that. I need to let go of my ego,   because ultimately it's not going to matter. Whatever does happen next is going to be another realm of existence. Or there's really nothing at all.
Whatever that may be, that nothingness or that next realm of existence will not be   concerned with what is happening on earth. It'll be something separate, I presume. Maybe not. Maybe we'll die and we'll all just be stuck here hanging around, unable to communicate with anybody, and it'll be really sad.
But I do feel like realizing and embracing the concept of letting go of the physical, letting go of the immediate temporal realities around us, is an important thing. Not to be all the time — just be aware. Just to be able to take that step back and say, “These things will pass, and I need to be okay with that.”
And it may not matter whether ghosts are actually around us, because sometimes we feel like they are anyhow. My father passed away some years ago and sometimes I still feel like he’s nearby.
You don't know what it is. It could be literally his ghost. It could be some scientifically quantifiable remnant of energy that is left behind, which I subscribe to. I do believe that, that makes sense to me. I don't know how to quantify it scientifically, but I believe science could one day figure out a way to explain those presences that we feel in rooms or in houses or in every space that we occupy.
You know, I say I don't believe in ghosts — but that's because I've never seen what we see in movies. I've never seen a phantom in the night. I've never seen an entire shelf get knocked over and all the plates shatter on the ground. But I am open to it.
And I also believe that that doesn't have to happen for those presences to be real, because I have gone into rooms that feel sad. That feel uncomfortable. And I feel there must be a reason.
Like the imprint of the person is still there, on us.
The Shining had the best description of it, which is that if you burn toast in a room, you're gonna smell that toast. And I feel like that is something that exists in the world. When someone leaves a room they leave a little bit of themselves behind, regardless of how minuscule that might be. And sometimes they'll leave enough behind that you feel it, and maybe there's more to it than that. And maybe there's less to it than that. But I do subscribe to that because of the potential of that idea.
That lingering presence gets represented a lot of ways at the movies. Did you see [Oliver Assayas’s 2017 film] Personal Shopper?
I am obsessed with Personal Shopper.
I thought you might be.
I didn't see it until this past March, so I was aware of it last year when we shot this movie because it had just played at Cannes, but I had no idea that it was actually a ghost movie. I knew about the text messages, and I knew that there were some horror elements, but I didn't know that it actually was about haunting, and the movie knocked me off my feet. I can't stop thinking about it. I'm relatively obsessed with it. And the ghost visual effects in that movie are amazing.
The visual effects in that movie feel similar to yours in some ways. There’s the lights —
The lights flickering.
And sometimes the edges of reality seem to kind of blur out visually.
Yeah.
Your use of the bedsheet for the ghost makes sense, but can you talk about how you arrived at those other visual effects?
Setting aside the bedsheet, I wanted to follow the rules that have been established collectively in most haunted house movies, in most ghost films. So lights flickering, things getting knocked over, weird sounds in the night, all the things we collectively understand occur when a house is haunted — I wanted to utilize those, play into those, exploit those tropes.
The light blinking is something you always see, and I figured that was a great way for   my ghost to communicate, to express himself.
There’s also the fact that he can't leave the house. Initially, we had a scene that was entirely concerned with laying out the “rules.” We had a scene that was about the ghost realizing what doors he could get through and which doors he couldn't get through, what he could touch, what he couldn't touch. There were a lot of Michel Gondry-esque gags of him jumping through walls, with two people in a costume — one pushing on one side of the wall and one pushing on the other, and a camera that panned and let us cut from one to the next.
There was this entire sequence that was just defining the rules, and it was pretty much the first thing to hit the cutting room floor. We realized that all our lives, we've seen so many haunted house movies and so many ghost movies that we understand them implicitly.
As audience members, we understand what the rules are — and the fact that he never leaves the house — is all you need to know to understand that he's trapped there.
And the fact that he can't get that note out of the walls — all you need to know is that he can't interact with things, but we definitely had a sequence originally where it was very much like the scenes in Ghost where Patrick Swayze learns how to physically interact with things. I thought we needed that. Turns out, you don't.
The ghost can’t leave the house, but eventually the house leaves him! That was the only jump scare in the whole movie for me —
The bulldozer coming through the wall?
Crashing through! So the house leaves him. That’s interesting for the audience from a mental framework. At that point in the film, you're doing something to both the ghost’s world and our idea of the movie.
Completely. It’s the second time something seismic has happened. The first is when Rooney leaves, and he realizes — and we realize with him — that he's not haunting her, he's haunting the space. Then the space changes and transforms, and we realize that that's not permanent either. And he's still hanging on. He's hanging on for far longer than he should.
All of the things he's hanging on to keep getting pulled out from   under him, removed and then taken away. Even this brief connection with the ghost next door goes away. The brief moment when he feels like he might have a connection with this little girl humming a song that sounds familiar to him is taken away from him as well. Everything keeps being pulled from him because he needs to understand, as a character he needs to understand, and we need to understand with him that those things are all impermanent. It's important to let go of them.
And yet, they're cyclical.
The cyclical nature of it was my attempt to instill an understanding that we aren't defined solely by this life. Like the song, for example. He writes the song that is his, and he's gonna have this piece of art that potentially will outlast him. And when he winds up somewhere in a distant past and realizes that someone else was humming that same melody, hundreds of years away — that sense of authorship falls away at that point, because the song is no longer just his.
And nothing is. Nothing is just his. The land that those settlers settle on is not their land, either. No one is ever able in this movie to lay claim to any one thing. It always gets pulled away from them, because nothing truly is ours. The cyclical nature of history consistently reveals that. Things keep getting built up and then falling apart because nothing is permanent.
What's the story behind the song?
Daniel Hart, who's written the score to all of my films, has a band called Dark Rooms. And while we were doing the score for Pete's Dragon, he was also beginning to record songs for his next record with his band. He played that song for me one morning and I just became obsessed with it. I couldn't stop listening to it; I was just driving around LA   listening to it constantly, and it was right in early days of developing the project. The script existed, but we were just starting to put the pieces together, and I went into the script and just wrote the song into the script. It became the emotional centerpiece of the movie ... It felt exactly the way I want the movie to feel.
There's sort of a hopeless longing to his vocals in this song. It's very, very sad, and we feel this sense of desperately reaching out for something you can't quite grab. Those emotions are what this movie was all about. I felt that he had already accomplished what I wanted to do with this movie with that song, and the best thing I could do was to just ... you know, borrow it, and let the song lend those qualities to the movie at key moments.
It feels so ethereal.
I hate to use this word, but it's a very haunting song. And I love that it's a pop song, with a drum beat and all the normal things go along with a pop song. But it also goes so far beyond just a pleasant song to listen to. It's not just a fun song. There's a lot going on there. It's as rich and as beautiful and transportive as any film I could ever hope to make.
Music itself is important to the film in several different ways.
Once we had that song in there, Daniel knew that the score would be incredibly vital. He felt that the rest of the score should play upon that song. So every piece of score begins with an element from that song. Whether it's a little piece of the strings, or a little bit of the vocals, every piece of the score is based on that song.
And from there it goes off into completely different directions. I really wanted him to push beyond what our previous collaborations sounded like. Our previous films have all been very folksy, very handmade. I wanted this score to feel different. I wanted the pop elements of that song to sort of carry over into the score. But I wanted to go beyond that, even, and have things that feel ancient or transcendent because the movie ultimately becomes quite epic and quite cosmic in its scope. I wanted the movie to reflect that, and sort of guide us in that direction.
At this point in our collaboration, Daniel and I don't have to talk about things that much. He can give me a piece of music, and I can give a few notes on it, and he'll revise it. Then the next piece of music will be exactly what the movie needs. In this case, you know, the first piece of music he gave us was the music for the scene in the hospital. I told him to write a piece of music that sounded like a John Carpenter score from the 1980s, and he delivered exactly that. It was way too much, so we dialed it back quite a bit, and once we'd done that, the rest of the score just was first drafts. He just   delivered first drafts, and they all fit perfectly.
The whole score is very resonant with the movie, even though you don't necessarily realize it. Some of the vocal elements in the other songs are the soprano singing vocals, and all the lyrics are all based on elements of the movie — whether it's the Virginia Wolfe short story, or the Tibetan Book of the Dead; there's a lot of that material built into the score that provides a really rich subtext on a sonic level, even if you don't know all that. And most people won't! It really guides you towards the movie's ultimate conclusion. It’s the roadmap to follow as the movie becomes what it's ultimately about.
There's other music in the movie as well, including Beethoven's Ode to Joy, to underscore a monologue about Ode to Joy. In that same scene, there's a song that was co-written by Kesha the pop singer, who's one of my favorite pop singers. And there was a lot of other music in the movie that has its own flavors and own reasons for being.
It sort of felt like it had an overture.
Yes. In fact, we actually created an overture for the film to kick the movie off. It was a four-minute piece of music that I believe is on the soundtrack — maybe only on the vinyl, but I'm not sure. We thought about just introducing the movie with four minutes of music and a blank screen, just so people could get into the mindset of the film. Ultimately that proved to be a little too alienating; I remember going to see Tarantino’s Hateful Eight, with its overture, and no one knew what to make of it. You go see that at the local AMC and people are like, what is going on? Did the projector break?
The movie's challenging enough. We didn't want to predispose ourselves to audience alienation. But nonetheless, it would be great to have that because this is the type of  movie that could utilize that. And even if we don't have a complete, traditional, opening overture, the entire pre-title sequence still functions as such and it kind of started perfectly in its own right.
There's this trend toward performing films with live orchestra. A Ghost Story would be really good candidate, I think.
We have talked about it, and we would really love to do it.
When I saw Tree of Life that way, it made the film feel bigger somehow.
Oh, I can only imagine. I saw 2001: A Space Odyssey that way, and it was like, how did they actually write the music on paper? Watching it live, you suddenly realize how complex this music actually is. It just makes no sense to me. It's so profound and so immaterial, and yet all of these musicians are playing it live in front of me. It really illuminated how powerful that music, and music in general, can be.
I was actually reminded of 2001 when watching A Ghost Story, because of how time circles.
That was probably the first movie I ever saw. At the time my grandfather knew that I loved outer space and he showed it to me from a very early age, before I even saw Star Wars. He always left off the “Dawn of Time” sequence, because he figured I wouldn't care about that. He figured as a 4-year-old, all I wanted to see was spaceships. But he always left in the ending, and so as a 4-year-old, getting hit with that cosmic journey — I'm sure that that had a profound effect on me, and has impacted everything I've done ever since, even on a very subconscious level.
So I didn't think about 2001 while making A Ghost Story, but I also didn't need to, because it's always there for me.
You never forget those big, crazy movies you see as a kid.
Even though the effects in 2001 are dated, the actual way that sequence at the end of the film functions within the movie is still completely transcendent. It is so far beyond what anyone does now or has ever done. No one's ever done anything like that. There's no movie that takes those great leaps. Even to have a protagonist shift halfway through the movie is a profound narrative device that no one does. It's very rare to have that happen. It's next-level stuff.
With films like 2001, or even like Personal Shopper, I think people crave closure and don’t get it. They’re left wondering, what did I just watch? Do you have an idea in your mind for what you want people to feel when they leave the theater from A Ghost Story? Or do you not think about that?
I try not to think about it too much, but the first time I watched the movie all the way through with the finished sound design, when we were checking it for Sundance, I forgot that it was a movie I made. For a second. Which is almost impossible to do. And the effect it had on me was not what I was expecting. And I'm still trying to figure out what that was.
Ultimately, it left me feeling very comforted, and left me feeling at peace. Which is good, because that's what I was going for. But the way in which it achieved that was not something I was consciously trying to do. It really took on a life of its own for me, as the filmmaker, and worked on me in objective fashion. My response to it was   objective. And I treasure that, because I don't ever get to have that experience in my own films. I don't think I ever will again.
But as a result, I'm still trying to come to terms with what it means to me and I hesitate to describe a reaction to audiences in the stands. I don't want to say that it's open to interpretation, or that you can get out of it whatever you want to get out of it. Of course that's true; I don't feel a film so non-specific has to bring in that sort of disclaimer. But whatever the specificity has is as of yet something I can't quite define. I know that it's specific, but I don't quite know how to put it into words.
I think that's probably going to be most people's experience.
That's great. I'm glad to have provided an experience like that. And I'm glad that to a certain extent I can partake in it, because it's really special to me to be able to sit back and — you know, 45 minutes into the movie, that's where I'm just like, all of a sudden,   for whatever reason, just along for the ride. And I'm able to watch objectively. It's a beautiful thing.

Warning: This story contains graphic language depicting a rape.
On November 22, 2016, the two-year anniversary of the day I met my boyfriend, we celebrated by spending the afternoon apartment hunting — searching for a place that would accommodate the life we were beginning to build together. With a small list of properties to view, we stood on the front porch of my parents’ house, ready to set out into the late-November day. But as I typed the address of the first apartment into my phone, a sexually explicit text message from an unknown phone number appeared on the screen.
“Hi there … Saw your post on CL … Are you still up for some fun?” the message read. It was quickly followed by another: “I want to fuck your ass.” I could feel the blood drain from my face. I looked at my boyfriend, and back at my phone. “I have no idea who this is,” I told him, showing him the messages. Three more aggressively sexual messages appeared on the screen.

“It must be a wrong number,” my boyfriend told me. “Just delete it.” I took his advice, quickly deleting the texts and blocking the unknown number. But the messages didn’t stop. Instead, they continued coming from different numbers from different cities all over the country. In the following weeks, I received assault threats, pictures of genitalia, and countless degrading messages, all responding to Craigslist sex ads I never posted.
As a woman who writes about disfigurement and medical trauma for a living, I never thought sexual harassment would be a hazard of my profession. Yet just two weeks after I wrote about equality for individuals with disfigurements in a national paper, the abuse began. It was as though I was being punished, and I had no idea who was trying to take revenge on me or why.
As weeks turned into months, my boyfriend and I settled into our new place, but the harassment didn’t stop. Texts continued pouring in from unknown numbers. I searched Craigslist and Google for anything related to my phone number, but my contact information didn’t appear anywhere. Still, I was harassed by men of all ages, each one detailing the sexual acts they wanted to do to me.
“Hey you. I’m answering your ad on Craigslist. I want to lick your pussy and ass before I smash it,” one man texted.
“I am ready for you bb,” another man sent, followed by a selfie. “My dick is throbbing for you,” he said. “Does that excite you?”
“Not in the slightest,” I responded, before blocking his number.
Another man thought I was a sex worker. “When are you available?” He asked me. I deleted his message without responding, but the man continued. “I saw your ad on Craigslist looking for oral. I’m available tonight,” he wrote. “I have a job, car, cash, and can meet you at Starbucks then go from there. I’m available today, tomorrow, and Friday.”
The next text came from a man old enough to be my father. He called me sweetie and sent me selfies and pictures of his dick. After dozens of unanswered texts, I told him he had the wrong number, that I didn’t have an ad. He told me I was beautiful, and sent me a screenshot of a picture he had of me. When I asked him how he got it, he responded by asking for naked photos.
With no idea how the man had my picture, I started asking everyone who texted me to send links to the ads they were responding to. Only two men obliged. The first man apologized profusely and immediately agreed to send the link. The other expressed concern, telling me how awful my situation must feel and encouraged me to contact authorities — before asking me to send him a naked photo as a thank-you. “Not to sound weird,” he said, “but your hot in a unique kinda way.” I didn’t feel “hot,” though. I felt powerless and exposed.
In addition to texts, men called incessantly and sent lewd messages to my Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and LinkedIn accounts. After continuing my method of asking each responder for links to the ads, and searching Google for my phone number, I found more than a dozen personal ads someone had created, all impersonating me. One ad referred to me as a “weird-looking virgin and mediocre writer with a rape fantasy.” Another said I needed to learn to keep my mouth shut.
Even more unsettling was the ad that claimed I wanted to be tied up and repeatedly sexually assaulted. “I want you to rape me,” it read. “Don’t take no for an answer.” The ads appeared on Craigslist in major cities across the country, including every major city in the San Francisco Bay Area, surrounding the town where I live. Each time I reported a post and had it deleted, another one appeared.
I began to fear for my safety every time I went to the grocery store, refueled my car at the gas station, or went hiking. I prayed I wouldn’t be assaulted every time I left my house.
In 2014, I was raped in a house on Loomis Street in Burlington, Vermont. I was 22 years old and fresh out of college. Even though most of my friends moved away months earlier, I stayed. I enrolled in graduate school and got a job at a small world music label in a rural Vermont town. But I was lonely.
That winter, I met the man who would later assault me. I didn’t know him. Not really, anyway, but he was funny and interesting. We talked about everything. We talked about nothing. When he invited me to his place for a movie night with his friends, I hesitated. “I’ll introduce you to everyone,” he told me. “I promise it’ll be fun.” I agreed.
On the day of the gathering, a storm overtook the city — nothing but fresh white powder for miles. I tried to cancel our plans, to say the roads weren’t safe, but he insisted, offering to leave his friends to pick me up. Within minutes, he was parked outside my door. When we got back to his house, the lights were off. “I thought your friends were here?” I asked. “Oh, they couldn’t make it,” he shrugged, as we walked through the door. Inside, black sheets hung over the walls and windows.
Though I knew I should leave, I stifled my urge to run. Instead, I sat at his kitchen table and let him make me a drink — something with whiskey and maple syrup. When I tried to politely call it a night, he blocked the door with his body. I had no way out and no way home. Nobody else was coming.
That night, the man raped me beneath two rifles hung on his wall in a giant X above his bed. “‘X’ marks the spot,” he whispered as he spread my legs. I cried, begging him to stop. Because it was more of an X like a target. X like draw a line through it. X like cross it out, because it doesn’t matter. X like the shape his hands made when he used them to cover my mouth. “Are you having fun yet, baby?” he asked. My blood decorated his sheets, but he smiled and laughed, whispering, “I’m almost there.”
When he finished, he pointed to the bathroom and told me to go clean myself up. I cried as I quickly slid my jeans over my bloody thighs. The man was still naked, passed out on his bed, so I ran for the front door. Snow outside was piled even higher and the frigid temperatures were well into the negatives, but I walked the two miles home anyway, the smell of blood trailing me the entire way.
After I was raped, I didn’t report it. I didn’t even tell anyone it happened until eight months later, when I tried to love someone new but cried every time he touched me. When I mentioned the assault, he asked why I never reported it. Because I thought it was my fault. Because that’s what I get for going to his house.
Though it’s been three years, as a victim of sexual assault, every vile message I received in response to the ad I never posted forced me to relive my nightmare.
In the United States, cyber harassment laws vary state by state. Though there are 34 states with laws in place, policies have simply failed to keep up with technological capabilities. This became evident in early January, when I finally contacted my local police department. The officer I spoke with was sympathetic, but since I didn’t have the name of the person posting the ads and nobody physically threatened me, nothing could be done.
I couldn’t just do nothing, though, so I took to the internet for research. I reached out to internet hackers, activists, and other victims.
In early February, I spoke with Charlotte Laws, a renowned cyber harassment and revenge porn activist, who referred to cyber harassment as “the new frontier for women and feminists.” Known as the “Erin Brockovich of revenge porn,” she began fighting cyber harassment in 2012, after her daughter’s computer was hacked and a personal photo was posted on a pornographic website. When we spoke on the phone, she was tough but stern — the kind of woman you’d always want on your side. I asked her about her experience and told her about mine.
“Cyberspace has been a men’s club for a long time,” she told me. This is why many women are not as successful in their attempts to stop their cyber harassers. A large part of this stems from the fact that the internet, which Laws calls “bigger than life,” prioritizes free speech over the safety and protection of women. “I think there would be huge backlash if you wanted to change the laws in that way,” she told me.
“I still have a guy who has been stalking me for seven years,” she confided. “He’s never physically threatened me, so there’s nothing I can do.”
It was comforting to speak with someone who understood that these Craigslist ads weren’t just words on a screen. That cyber sexism isn’t just verbal abuse, threats of physical assault, and privacy violations; it’s a complete undermining of everything women have worked for. It’s the perpetuation of rape culture through technological advance.
As our conversation continued, I told Laws I had begun shutting down my online presence. I removed my picture and professional information from LinkedIn, and made sure my other social media profiles were set to private.
But she told me that for victims of cyber harassment who have had their reputations tarnished, it’s important to build up an online presence to make the negative content harder to find: “Building your reputation online will help push bad content down. Eighty percent of employers check the internet. Don’t shut down your online presence. Build it up.” Slowly, I began to take social media accounts off of their private settings and got back to work creating more content to help bury the Craigslist ads.
Finally, in March, after nearly four months of constantly looking over my shoulder, the harassment stopped — just as abruptly as it had begun. But in May, it started again, when I received another text from an unknown number — from a man who got my number off Craigslist. When I did a Google search for the number, I learned it belonged to a man who had recently been released from prison for sexual assault.
I still don’t know who created the ads impersonating me, or why, but after the man convicted of sexual assault began to contact me, I decided to publish this piece under an assumed name. Fear for my safety trumped the advice to build up my online profile and bury the ads.
Though my identity has been concealed, I still shudder every time I think of the fact that someone is out there waiting for me to let my guard down, to post another ad. While I will not let the harassment keep me from my love of writing, or prevent me from living my best life, every time I publish something new, there’s a part of me that wonders if this will be the day the verbal threats become physical — if this will be the day I really am silenced.
Rebecca Scheffler is a pseudonym.
This essay originally appeared on Narrative.ly.
More stories from Narrative.ly:
First Person is Vox's home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.
Kim Kardashian’s social media feed is a living Rorschach test: Two people can look at the same image and come away with largely different impressions, and those impressions might say more about the viewer than about Kardashian. Is she the savviest, hardest-working celebrity ever or a shallow simulacrum of talent and fame? Is she candid or curated? Hatable or enviable? The answer is whatever you want it to be.
On Thursday, Kardashian’s Snapchat presented another dividing question: Is that cocaine in the background, or just a black table?
Tucked over Kardashian’s shoulder, within the frame of the Snap, was a black table scored by two distinct white lines. After it was pointed out, Kardashian created a 49-second video, with her in a flower crown filter, showing us that the alleged lines of blow were actually markings of a marble table:
Just a marble table     pic.twitter.com/5GA14ptvqy
Despite Kardashian rubbing her finger vigorously on the surface of the table, some people — possibly those who have seen people appreciate “marble tables” in Las Vegas, or seen their fair share of “marble tables” in bathroom stalls, or have watched the “marble table” scene in Scarface, or witnessed the abundance of “marble tables” in the ’80s — didn’t quite believe her story. Meanwhile, those versed in the ongoing national Kardashian narrative were quick to point out that Kim leads a sober lifestyle and refrains from drinking and drugs.
What makes this a completely Kardashian moment is Kim’s ability to take the controversy and maximize exposure. Kim’s flower-crowned forensic debunking of that marble table has already been retweeted more than 27,000 times. In comparison, Donald Trump Jr.’s statement and tweet about his contact with a Russian lawyer — the biggest news story of the day — was retweeted 17,000 times.
The beautifully entertaining thing about this all is that it almost doesn’t matter what Kim Kardashian said. The rush to either defame or defend her is a testament to her pop culture clout.
Kardashian’s “cocaine or marble table” Snap and the response to it happened within 24 hours. The initial Snap posted to the app on Monday night; by Tuesday afternoon, it had blown up, with many pointing out that it did indeed look like Kim had left two unsullied lines of cocaine in the background:
Ohhhhhh @KimKardashian caught out with cocaine .. durtayyyyy pic.twitter.com/ZCnRcpmLSA
Kim’s initial reaction to the claims fueled further speculation, when she stated that the lines were actually sugar remnants from the candy she and her children had bought from the candy store:
I do not play with rumors like this so I'm gonna shut it down real quick. That's sugar from our candy mess from dylan's candy shop https://t.co/oICdPQVi8d
That would have been a fine enough explanation, had she not then walked back that initial explanation in favor of the this-is-just-a-marble-table defense, making it look like she was scrambling for an excuse rather than giving us the truth. For people who have already made up their minds about Kardashian, her 49-second vignette about her marble table that looks like it has cocaine on it wasn’t about to change their opinion.
The reaction to Kim’s marble table (or “marble table”) illustrates the appeal of a Kardashian controversy like this one: It offers a chance for all of us to weigh in, self-sort into Kardashian critics or defenders, and see what our friends, loved ones, and public figures thought about it. The oracle of our times, Chrissy Teigen, picked a side, as did MSNBC host Chris Hayes, as did all the people who had opinions about Chris Hayes’s opinion about the marble table:
I BELIEVE HER!!! https://t.co/V5LetKaNkr
The marble table dustup is reminiscent of another Kardashian-related incident from last year, when Kendall Jenner, Kim’s half-sister, found herself in a social media controversy after she posted about how cute a tiny plastic bag was, either displaying her cluelessness about what kind of white powders go into cute, tiny plastic bags or not realizing that she was incriminating herself. That Snap was promptly deleted, but not before it created a rumor — which was promptly denied — about Jenner allegedly using drugs.
The crux of both of these stories, as with most Kardashian stories, is the tension between reality and what the Kardashians present to us. Kim and her family have built an empire on sharing their lives, whether it’s through reality television or through their Instagram, Twitter, and Snapchat accounts. The moment our perceived reality doesn’t fall in line with the version of reality they present to viewers (see: the Kardashian robbery story last year), there’s an immediate surge of interest and a chance to confirm your personal theories about the Kardashians.
Related
To Kardashian truthers, Kim’s marble table represents a crack in her carefully curated image of squeaky-clean wealth and extravagance. Those who don’t buy what the Kardashians are selling see the suggestion of cocaine use as proof that Kim and her family’s presented reality is a facade.
There are two big reasons why we should believe Kim Kardashian and her marble table. The first is that she has gone on the record and has talked about sobriety and living a sober life in multiple interviews. If that’s not convincing enough, then there is reason number two: Kim Kardashian is the most curated, edited celebrity on the planet.
A Kardashian Instagram post or Snapchat snap isn’t a candid glimpse into their lives — it’s their business. Kim and the Kardashians make their living off what they present to the public. Companies have allegedly paid Kim and her sisters up to $500,000 to get in touch with their millions of Instagram followers. And since her 2016 robbery, which she calls a “life-changing event,” Kim said she has to be even more careful with what she posts.
There is absolutely no way two stray lines of cocaine would make it past her first edit. At this point, a more believable story would be that Kim knew exactly what she was doing when she saw those two distinct white lines and included them in her now-famous marble table Snap.
After weeks of buildup, and facing higher stakes than ever before, websites around the internet are protesting today on behalf of net neutrality — the Battle for the Net, also known as the “Day of Action.”
The protest has mounted among some of the web’s biggest corporations and communities in the face of the FCC’s current attempts to dismantle net neutrality regulations. At issue is the basic question of whether internet service providers (ISPs) should be treated like public utilities, and therefore forced to distribute service to everyone equally, or allowed to behave like free-market competitors — potentially hijacking your internet speeds and access. (Read our in-depth explainer on net neutrality here.)
What if the Internet was so slow it loaded one word at a time? Defend #NetNeutrality https://t.co/eZKSGDkKi2
But while such protests have made an impact in the past, doubts are rising that this year’s protest will have any effect on a conservative FCC chair who seems determined to undo what he sees as a largely partisan ruling enacted during the Obama administration.
Since 2015, there have been laws in place that restrict ISPs like Verizon and Comcast from deliberately slowing internet speeds, blocking access to certain services and sites, and requiring customers to pay more for fully unrestricted speeds and access. But now, with the FCC actively working to repeal those laws, net neutrality advocates fear they could lose all those protections.
The FCC’s proposed plan to repeal current net neutrality legislation, titled “Restoring Internet Freedom,” was announced in May, and is open for public comment until July 17. The current setbacks facing net neutrality are dramatic, and would essentially allow ISPs to have unregulated control over how you access the internet — as well as unregulated access to your personal data and web usage information.
Because the potential changes are so drastic, they have sparked a dramatic reaction from many of the web’s major players, including Amazon, Reddit, and Netflix, along with numerous other influential websites from PornHub to Kickstarter. Today’s Day of Action is intended to be a collective wake-up call, a protest that alerts the public to the serious changes facing the internet at large.
Advocates for net neutrality have been urging internet users to speak out on the matter for weeks; thanks to efforts like John Oliver’s May viral video asking his viewers to comment on the FCC’s, which temporarily crashed the FCC website, more than 5 million comments on the plans have already been received. (In that same vein, some senators urged the FCC to prepare for today’s protest by shoring up its servers in anticipation of a surge in traffic from angry consumers.)
But the official “action” will come today, when many websites go dark, put up banners, send out pop alerts or calls to action, or purposefully interfere with the speed of their own pages in order to draw visitors’ attention to the issue.
The last virtual day of protest like this one took place in September 2014, in anticipation of the 2015 ruling, when websites across the internet delivered a day of “Internet Slowdown.” During that protest, many websites greeted visitors with symbolic “loading” symbols and deliberately delayed their load times in order to materially remind users that what’s at stake in the conversation surrounding net neutrality is your internet speed and access to information.
Netflix will never outgrow the fight for #NetNeutrality. Everyone deserves an open Internet. https://t.co/iHfQUjfq2x
Look for websites displaying banner ads linking to net neutrality activist sites like Battle for the Net, pop-up notifications and in-app alerts from mobile apps, websites redirecting you to comment pages and write-in letters, blogs going dark in protest, and social media discussing #NetNeutrality and #BattlefortheInternet.
Some websites have made site-specific enhancements; for example, Wordpress has an installable plugin for the day of protest so people who host their websites on Wordpress can easily tell visitors what’s up, while Vimeo created a special “bumper video” on the topic to encourage Vimeo creators to add it to their videos.
Google, Facebook, and Amazon initially committed to joining the protest as well, but in actuality, their contributions have been barely visible. While Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg posted a note of support on his personal blog, the site itself has not changed. And Google and Twitter posted pro-net neutrality blog entries, but neither has visibly altered or interrupted their website services (though Twitter is promoting the #NetNeutrality hashtag). Tumblr encouraged its users to support Net Neutrality and hosted a panel discussion on the issue on its Action Time blog.
While this isn’t the first fight the internet’s most visible communities have waged on behalf of net neutrality, it is the first such prominent fight to be waged during the Trump administration. Various recent polls on the subject indicate bipartisan support for the concept of net neutrality, but also, paradoxically, a dislike of government regulation of telecommunication industries, which indicates confusion about what’s at stake regarding the FCC’s proposed changes.
You may recall the hard-won 2015 FCC ruling that enacted net neutrality legislation by forcing ISPs to comply with federal telecommunications regulations. The ruling followed years of intense campaigning from internet activists, as well as a notable 2014 day of protest from prominent internet voices, and was hailed as a victory for a free and open internet.
That’s why you’d be forgiven for believing the battle for net neutrality has already been fought and won. Essentially, it was — but under the Trump administration, it’s being fought again.
The FCC’s new chair, Ajit Pai — who was appointed by President Trump in January — takes a staunchly anti-regulatory approach to the laws that govern how ISPs conduct business. He has said repeatedly that the 2015 ruling passed “on a party-line vote,” and believes that the FCC’s previous 2015 ruling is essentially frivolous and unnecessary. So he’s seeking to undo it by deregulating ISPs.
Currently, because the FCC classifies ISPs as telecommunications companies, they’re forced to abide by the same basic regulations that, for example, keep phone companies from deliberately providing you with a bad connection unless you pay to upgrade to a better one.
But the FCC’s current proposal would reclassify ISPs as information companies instead of telecommunications companies. This would essentially abolish the regulations in place to protect internet users’ equal, unfiltered access to bandwidth and data — the building blocks of a “neutral” internet — in favor of an unregulated free market with little to no accountability from the ISPs due to a lack of government oversight regarding how ISPs distribute their services to internet users.
In fact, if Pai has his way, ISPs would not be subject to FCC restrictions at all but would instead fall under the purview of the Federal Trade Commission — which is a huge problem for websites, internet privacy advocates, and advocates for a free, open internet.
The FCC’s potential repeal of the 2015 net neutrality ruling would ask ISPs to “voluntarily agree” not to slow down internet speeds or restrict users’ access to data. But the efficacy of such a request would be questionable at best. That’s because, prior to the 2015 ruling, major ISPs in the US had already been accused of throttling speeds and degrading service to their customers. (And even after the 2015 regulations took hold, they only did so much.) ISPs like Verizon, Comcast, and AT&T have tried over the years to throttle bandwidth under various guises, restrict access to competitive services, and even block political messages on their servers.
And there’s a huge problem with Pai’s plan to make ISP regulation the FTC’s responsibility, which is simply that the FTC is an enforcement agency, not a regulatory one. That is, the FTC has no ability to create or enforce new regulations against potential abuses of net neutrality, because while the Federal Communications Commission can enact regulations for how ISPs must behave, the Federal Trade Commission is really only legally able to enforce existing rules against ISPs after the FCC has established them. So since the FCC would be throwing its own regulations out the window, the only regulatory action the FTC would be able to take would be to issue punishments after the fact if an ISP failed to actually adhere to any promise to obey net neutrality that it had voluntarily written into its own terms of service.
Given the sheer number of ISPs that exist across the country, and the enormous difficulty of policing them all to determine whether they are actually obeying their own voluntary agreements — to say nothing of taking action against them after they’ve already implemented any harmful business practices — it’s highly unlikely that the FTC would be enforce any meaningful regulation against ISPs.
And given that these ISPs are now, thanks to Congress’s recent controversial dismantling of internet privacy laws, also able to sell your browser histories and internet search histories without your consent, it’s worrisome, to say the least, that they could potentially fall under the control of a federal agency with no power to regulate them.
All of these factors have internet freedom advocates worried, and have already heightened focus on today’s protest. And perhaps even more worrisome, at least to anyone who supports net neutrality, is that the protest has also drawn plenty of cynicism that any amount of public comment or protest will sway the FCC from doing whatever it wants.
One Republican lobbyist has already told Politico the protest isn’t likely to gain any “political traction.” And on social media, many people have already questioned why sites haven’t gone black in protest, as some have done in previous years.
NN supporters don't seem to realize that consumer engagement and grassroots activism aren't pressure tactics that work on a conservative FCC https://t.co/B33kqD4guf
Still, the issue of net neutrality is one that unites many disparate internet communities — a glance at Reddit, for example, reveals prominent pro-net neutrality posts from notorious Gamergaters alongside posts from the technology community and more progressive voices. If nothing else, the Day of Action could remind us that some issues are bipartisan, and hopefully work to convince the FCC to keep the current regulations in place for the protection of everyone on the internet.
Update: This post has been updated to reflect Tumblr’s participation in the Day of Action
When Vanity Fair published its photos of a pregnant Serena Williams at the end of June, the magazine was participating in a tradition it began in 1991 with its iconic Demi Moore cover. Pregnancy was widely considered to be too unsightly and unpleasantly fleshy to be a focus of celebrity coverage in the ‘80s, but the Demi Moore cover changed that. The image of a celebrity in tender black-and-white, cradling her naked belly on a magazine cover, was groundbreaking in 1991, and today has become de rigueur.
As author and BuzzFeed writer Anne Helen Petersen has chronicled, celebrity pregnancy today is a favorite topic of the gossip press, and as such it is expected to meet certain standards. Celebrity pregnancy should be cute. Maternity clothes should be feminine and frilly, or perfectly tailored to put one’s “baby bump” in the spotlight. The pregnant celebrity’s belly should swell while the rest of her stays slim and toned. There should be no signs of visible discomfort.
The demands of the aspirational celebrity pregnancy, meanwhile, transfer themselves to non-celebrity women who consume gossip coverage: If Demi Moore looks like that when she’s pregnant, I should, too. If Kate Middleton is so skinny just months after giving birth, I should be, too.
With its Serena Williams cover, Vanity Fair was projecting the idea of an aspirational celebrity pregnancy onto the body of a black woman, which is a groundbreaking act in and of itself. But it was also adding a new beat to the narrative, one that has been slowly gaining ground over the past few years, most recently with the coverage of the pregnancies of Beyoncé and Wonder Woman star Gal Godot.
Now, pregnant celebrities aren’t only expected to be cute and well-behaved and of a particular body type. They are also expected to be startlingly athletic well into their pregnancy.
The Williams cover issue comes with a story by Friday Night Lights author Buzz Bissinger about Williams and her pregnancy and her relationship with fiancé Alexis Ohanian.  Most of the article is framed as a love story, but its climax is focused entirely on the remarkable feats of athleticism Williams performed while pregnant:
The Australian Open presented a new challenge that Serena had never faced before in her career. Because of the pregnancy she did not have the same endurance. She could uncharacteristically feel herself getting tired between points, particularly long ones. If a match went to three sets she knew she would lose, so she was determined to make every match two sets. She also had to deal with the Melbourne heat, which can be vicious on the court in the late afternoon: despite hating playing in the morning, Serena, because she had the option of choosing the match time in the early rounds, played as many as possible at 11 A.M.
You had to win seven matches to win the tournament.
Serena won them all in straight sets.
To be clear, this is an enormous achievement that it is well worth celebrating. To win the Australian Open while under the incredible physical stress of a pregnancy is astonishingly difficult — and Williams’s pregnancy was unannounced at the time, which made the subsequent reveal even more surprising. Williams’s victory is worth recognizing and probably would be recognized regardless of the cultural atmosphere. But the emphasis on the athleticism of Williams’s pregnancy is part of a growing tendency to zero in on the athleticism of other celebrity pregnancies.
It’s the same trend we saw earlier this year when EW reported with awe that Gal Gadot was five months pregnant during Wonder Woman reshoots. “Gal Gadot may not actually be Wonder Woman,” it concluded, “but there were days on the set of Warner Bros.’ newest superhero film when she certainly came close.”
And it’s the same interest that drove a slew of stories in this year alone about high-achieving athletes — like Olympic gold medalist swimmer Dana Vollmer and USA Outdoor champion runner Alysia Montaño — who are competing while pregnant.
The desire to celebrate the athleticism of pregnant women is certainly laudable. It comes, in part, from the recognition that pregnancy is extremely physically taxing: Can you imagine being so energetic while your body is literally building another person? Women like Alysia Montaño and Serena Williams are freaking superstars who deserve all the recognition they get.
But pop culture has a way of normalizing the things it celebrates as exceptional in one person into the things that it expects from everyone else. And that means this trend also comes with a potential dark side.
When Beyoncé announced her pregnancy in February, fans were quick to do the math: that meant that she would be headlining Coachella while eight months pregnant with twins. “I’m excited to see Beyoncé perform with twins,” Vanessa Hudgens mused. “I mean, she’ll kill it, because she’s Beyoncé. So her.”
The idea that Beyoncé is so effortlessly flawless and superhuman that she could headline a major music festival while heavily pregnant was exciting and validating for her fans — and when Beyoncé later announced that she would have to drop out of the festival after all on her doctor’s advice, the backlash came fast and furious.
Some declared that Beyoncé must have known she was pregnant before she signed onto Coachella, and that by announcing the deal anyway she was scamming both her fans and Coachella organizers.
Others opined that the cancellation just went to show that Beyoncé wasn’t that special after all. “Just proves how overrated of a person she really is,” one wrote. “She doesn't have that ‘IT’ factor.”
The backlash wasn’t limited to bitter fan tweeting. USA Today interviewed a doctor who scolded Beyoncé for not acting as “a poster child for pregnancy,” explaining that "there is no medical reason for not being active unless there are concerns about the pregnancy” and adding, “She should be out there doing her thing."
Pregnancy already comes with a slew of enormous cultural expectations. It should be cute; it should be properly accessorized; it should not affect any part of the body besides the iconic swollen belly; it should be feminine and glowing and emotionally meaningful.
And now, there’s a growing expectation that it should be athletic, too. It should be accompanied by physical achievement. And if pregnancy slows a woman down, we are beginning to think that means that she’s doing her pregnancy incorrectly.
When Academy Award-winning documentarian Errol Morris talks about the subject of his latest film, portrait photographer Elsa Dorfman, he describes her uncanny ability to preserve the immediacy of an unfolding moment and translate it into art.
“Elsa quite poetically describes it as ‘nailing down the now’ — I’ve never heard a better way of describing a photograph,” Morris tells Vox critic at large Todd VanDerWerff on the latest episode of his podcast, I Think You’re Interesting.
But hearing Morris talk about his own career — which launched with the pet cemetery-centered Gates of Heaven in 1978 and includes acclaimed films like 1998’s The Thin Blue Line and 2003’s The Fog of War: Eleven Lessons from the Life of Robert S. McNamara — it’s abundantly clear that he has committed to “nailing down the now” in his films. In the case of his latest, The B-Side: Elsa Dorfman’s Portrait Photography, Morris had been kicking the idea around for some time, but when the perfect moment arose, he knew he had to seize the opportunity.
“I think [filmmaking] happens in a way that I can’t even control. Elsa happened, it had been on my mind for years like, ‘I should make this film,’” Morris tells VanDerWerff.
“She told me the Gentle Giant — the local moving company — was coming to her house to take these huge polaroid photographs into storage where they could be digitized. And I thought, ‘Well, this isn’t going to happen every day, I’d better go out there and film it,’ and so we started making a film. It’s the way I should work at least part of the time, not asking permission to make a film, not looking for money to make a film, but just making a film.”
Over the course of his career, as Morris has interviewed subjects ranging from criminal investigators to Stephen Hawking to government leaders (including Donald Trump, who has a unique interpretation of Citizen Kane), he has worked to capture authenticity and organic reactions. This drive led him to build the Interrotron, a machine that allows his subjects to make eye contact with the viewer and strip away some of the artifice of filmmaking. Morris says that of all of his “customers” — his term for subjects — only McNamara has ever resisted the device
“He objected to it, I believe, because he’s been interviewed 10,000 times and then he comes in and something’s different and he’s immediately aware of that fact,” Morris explains. “He comes into the studio, he’d only agreed to give me five minutes, he sees the Interrotron set up and says, ‘What is that?’”
Still, after explaining what the device was for Morris wound up conducting 20 hours of interviews with McNamara on the Interrotron. This included a stunning moment for Morris where McNamara concurred with Curtis LeMay that they would have been tried as war criminals if they had lost World War II.
Perhaps most critically, Morris’ lengthy career has taught him the importance of letting a conversation take shape naturally and without imposing too many preconceived ideas.
“Things happen in interviews that I could never plan for,” he says, referencing moments from The B-Side where Dorfman examines some of her older photographs.
“I think I follow ideas as they lead me, I don’t think I have a plan. Of course there are things I want to cover and have brought out in the interview, but I have always been surprised that somehow if I shut up and let people talk they will take me where I want to go. … Why that happens, I don’t know, maybe it’s part of my art, but it’s much better when ideas emerge naturally in the course of a conversation rather than are imposed.”
Going into an interview with an open mind and no set agenda was also essential in the making of The Thin Blue Line. When Morris interviewed the principal eyewitness who got his protagonist, Randall Adams, convicted and sentenced to death, he was astounded by the implausible story she told him:
“She told this wild, cockamamie story that I could never have known enough to ask her. In fact, when she started telling me this story I didn’t know enough about it whether to believe her or disbelieve her, but I sat and listened. In the course of that interview she told me things that showed she had committed perjury at this man’s trial, and led to his conviction in Texas being reversed.”
As he continues to work on new projects, including an upcoming Netflix series, Morris remains committed to that sensation of “nailing down the now” that has allowed his documentaries to stand the test of time.
“People ask me, ‘How can you make something that looks spontaneous happen on film?’ And I say, ‘Well, the best way to make something look spontaneous is to make it spontaneous.’ In fact, I think it’s the only way.”
To hear more interviews with fascinating people from the world of arts and culture — from powerful showrunners to web series creators to documentary filmmakers — check out the I Think You’re Interesting archives.
Since the 2010 Emmys, 17 shows have been nominated for Outstanding Drama Series. They include among their ranks some of the best shows of this century to date — Mad Men and Breaking Bad and The Americans. They also include gigantic Emmy behemoths like Game of Thrones, and would-be awards monsters that eventually fizzled out, like Boardwalk Empire. And then there’s Dexter, because why not.
But between 2010 and 2016, there were 44 total slots available for Drama Series — and all 44 slots were filled by just those 17 shows. The Emmys, suffice to say, aren’t fond of nominating shows they’re not already familiar with.
The problem the Emmys have always faced is that the people who vote on them tend to be people who don’t have time to watch a lot of television. Either they’re too busy making it, or they’re long since retired and only watch the types of programs they already know they like.
As such, once a show is in at the Emmys, it’s usually difficult to push out, no matter how good some of its challengers might be. (Just ask The Americans, which was a critical darling for four whole seasons before finally making its way into the Emmys’ Outstanding Drama Series category last year.)
But the winds of change just might be brewing in 2017. Indeed, this is the most exciting race for a drama series nomination in many, many years, thanks to a shaky set of returning nominees and an unprecedented number of Emmy-friendly shows knocking at the door.
Major turnover in Emmy categories tends to happen when the absence of previous Emmy favorites leaves the door open for new blood. In 2015, the absence of Breaking Bad and True Detective opened the door for Better Call Saul and Orange Is the New Black, while the addition of a new, seventh slot allowed Homeland to squeeze back into the race after having been pushed out the year before.
Years with multiple openings for new series are rare — but 2017 is just such a case. Downton Abbey completed its Emmy run with the 2016 awards, while the reigning Drama Series champ, Game of Thrones, isn’t eligible for the 2017 awards, due to its newest season not having aired yet. (And Game of Thrones fans should get used to that — the final season is rumored to not be airing until 2019, so the show may still miss another Emmy ceremony before all is said and done.)
So that’s two openings right there. And that’s on top of the fact that all five of last year’s still-eligible nominees have their weak points. I’ll tackle them alphabetically.
Now, the Emmys are still the Emmys. The safe bet is always that some of these shows — and maybe even most of them — will make the cut all over again. In most years, I’d simply rubber stamp at least four of them into nomination slots.
But 2017 isn’t most years. In 2017, there are lots of new dramas to choose from.
Start with Netflix’s Orange Is the New Black, which fell out of the Drama Series running in 2016 but is eligible for its most acclaimed season (its fourth) in 2017. With such an unstable field, Orange should be good for some votes, right?
See, I just don’t know. Because here’s a brief list of new shows, in their first years of Emmy eligibility, that have enjoyed marked success at other industry and critical awards, and which are all fighting tooth and nail to make it into the Emmy drama race. I’ll keep the list, for now, to just five, in alphabetical order:
Four of these shows — all except for The Handmaid’s Tale, which hadn’t debuted yet — performed admirably with last fall’s industry prizes, especially among the Screen Actors Guild and Producers Guild, which indicates people in the TV industry are at least watching them. And though The Handmaid’s Tale was ineligible for those awards because it didn’t air in 2016 (it premiered in April), it has since earned tremendous reviews and a bevy of nominations from the occasionally predictive Television Critics Association (of which I am a member).
Between Orange and these promising freshmen, that’s already six shows competing to fill a total of seven slots — to say nothing of the five returning nominees.
And then there are other contenders like The Good Fight — the well-received spinoff to Emmy favorite The Good Wife — or the massively acclaimed final season of The Leftovers. Or Amazon’s lawyer drama Goliath, which would have been Emmy catnip in the ‘90s (but now might feel too tired). Or Showtime’s Billions, which stars Paul Giamatti and Damian Lewis, for Pete’s sake! Now we’re up to 10 potential first-time nominees, and that’s largely off the top of my head. (I haven’t even mentioned “If Todd ran the Emmys!” picks like Halt and Catch Fire or Rectify!)
The most likely scenario is that a number of previous nominees will return, but even if that number turns out to be “four” — because I can’t imagine Homeland muscling its way back in — three open slots will remain, with a whole bunch of shows fighting to snag one of them.
It’s not the sort of thing I’d dare try to predict (though, gun to my head, I’d go with The Americans, Better Call Saul, The Crown, Handmaid’s Tale, Stranger Things, This Is Us, and Westworld, with House of Cards just missing out). But the especially stacked competition will make for a more exciting Emmy nomination morning than usual — and a strong argument that the Television Academy should open up the number of slots in its series categories to an even 10.
When the Television Academy announces its Emmy nominations Thursday morning, several notable names will be missing from the list.
In some cases, the omissions will be self-explanatory. Game of Thrones may be the reigning champ of the Best Drama Series category, but it didn’t air a new season during the 2017 Emmys’ eligibility period, which ran from June 1, 2016, to May 31, 2017. (The last few episodes of the show’s sixth season, which aired in June 2016, were wrapped into its eligibility for the 2016 Emmys — and, indeed, it won writing and directing Emmys for one of them.)
But one name whose absence might provoke alarm is that of Showtime’s Twin Peaks revival, which will not be nominated in any categories. And the reason is simple: Though it aired four episodes before the May 31, 2017 eligibility cutoff, the majority of its 18 episodes will air during the next Emmy eligibility period, which runs from June 1, 2017, to May 31, 2018.
Related
In general, shows must air half their episodes within the Emmy eligibility period for their seasons to “count.” Any episodes that spill over — in either direction — are nominated alongside their seasons as a whole. So even though the Twin Peaks premiere aired in May 2017, it won’t be eligible for the Emmys until next year, because Showtime will be forced to submit the entirety of Twin Peaks to the 2018 Emmys. (The miniseries is 18 episodes, with only four airing before May 31.)
Ultimately, this eligibility wrinkle will probably help the show’s chances, as it seems to garner more buzz with every week it’s on the air. But it can still be a touch confusing, even for even diehard TV fans.
(Another example: Orange Is the New Black’s fifth season, which launched in the first half of June and already feels like old news as I’m writing this, won’t be eligible for the Emmys until 2018; any nominations the show receives this week will be for season four, which debuted on June 17, 2016.)
The logic behind the Emmys’ “half” rule has developed slowly over time, but they’re rooted in a past Emmy darling: The Sopranos. The HBO drama, which ran from 1999 to 2007, would frequently air its seasons from March to May, but skip Memorial Day weekend. The result was often that one episode, the season finale, would air in June. The Emmy rules at the time prevented that “remainder” episode from being eligible at all — even in the following year — so several memorable Sopranos finales simply didn’t qualify for Emmy awards.
As this scenario befell more and more cable dramas — which were less bound by the “September to May” calendar of the broadcast TV networks — the Emmys eventually, agreed that “rollover” episodes of a show’s season could be applied to the season as a whole. The rules were further adjusted in subsequent years until the Emmys settled on the rule we have now.
However, the most common situation for shows that straddle Emmy eligibility periods is to air a handful of episodes after the May 31 deadline, as Game of Thrones did in 2016. It’s much rarer for a show to air too few episodes during the eligibility period, thus dragging it into a future Emmy window.
So, even though what Twin Peaks is doing isn’t unprecedented, it is unusual. That seems only too fitting for the groundbreaking show.
You may not know the name of the award-winning Japanese artist and costume designer Eiko Ishioka, the subject of Wednesday’s Google Doodle, but you probably know her work.
The artist, who died in 2012 but would have turned 79 today, is known for her surrealist approach to costuming, artistic direction, and graphic design, often blending the dark and unsettling into a dramatic aesthetic. Her striking, haunting tone earned her a Grammy Award (for art-directing the album art for Miles Davis’s Tutu), an Oscar (for the costumes in Bram Stoker’s Dracula), and three Tony nominations (for her work on 1988’s M. Butterfly and 2012’s Spider-Man: Turn Off The Dark) over the course of her decades-long career.
Born July 12, 1938, in Tokyo to a graphic designer and a homemaker, Ishioka was a visual storyteller who took after her father’s profession and her mother’s forsaken creative endeavors. Graduating from the Tokyo National University of Fine Arts and Music in 1961, Ishioka entered the male-dominated industry of advertising. Despite warnings about potential hurdles to employment, she dug in her heels and proved herself as a bold, avant-garde conceptualist.
She initially became known for devising print ad campaigns featuring naked or nearly naked models — the likes of which were rarely seen in her industry at the time.
“To make a good ad, you have to approach people’s minds and bodies,” she once said.
“That was extremely shocking,” Maggie Kinser Saiki, the author of 12 Japanese Masters, told the Philippine Star about Ishioka’s work. “And yet she did it in a way that made you drawn to the beauty of it, and then you realize you’re looking at nipples.”
Ishioka began doing costuming work for Broadway and Hollywood starting in the early 1980s. Later in the decade, her passion for high-contrast coloring and minimalist focus (with a heavy emphasis on profiling the body) led her to conceive of the album art for Miles Davis’s Tutu, for which she would win a Grammy in 1986.
In 1992, her artistic fixation on the physical form helped her create the striking costumes for Francis Ford Coppola’s Bram Stoker’s Dracula, including star Gary Oldman’s blood-red and muscle-like suit of body armor. Ishioka’s work on the film earned her an Oscar for costume design.
Not all of Ishioka’s creations earned such industry plaudits, but many of them were memorable nonetheless — including her direction of Bjork’s 2001 music video “Cocoon,” and her costume design for Cirque du Soleil, the 2006 film The Fall (which is the main focus of her Google Doodle), and the 2010 Broadway musical Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark.
Ishioka’s costumes are characterized by unusual geometric shapes and vibrant colors. And she did not restrict her work to the stage and screen. Twice, for example, she ventured into the Olympic arena: At the 2002 Salt Lake City Olympics, she designed uniforms and outerwear for the Swiss, Canadian, Spanish, and Japanese teams, in addition to creating the Concentration Coat — a womblike cocoon meant to help athletes meditate and free themselves of distractions before competition. At the 2008 Beijing Olympics, she took on a much larger role: art-directing the optically and physically staggering opening ceremony. The Guardian called the event “spellbinding,” while Yahoo proclaimed that Beijing “set the bar for Olympic opening ceremony standards.”
Ishioka’s contributions to the Olympics and the worlds of advertising, music, theater, and film span continents, cultures, mediums, and decades. And it’s all of these things that help her boundary-breaking work remain unmatched.
According to a new Pew Research survey, 41 percent of American adults have personally experienced online harassment, while 66 percent claim to have seen it happening to someone else — and more and more, people expect social media companies and other internet businesses, as well as law enforcement, to step in and take action to prevent or stop online harassment from happening.
These findings — released Tuesday — are the result of a broad study of online harassment that asked 4,248 respondents to answer multiple choice as well as open-answer questions about their experiences with online harassment. The survey was very similar to a previous survey that Pew conducted in 2014, and showed no significant increases in rates of online harassment.
The results of the survey reflect a number of commonly accepted observations about the nature of online harassment — for example, that it can cause stress and that more severe harassment disproportionately affects younger internet users, women, and people of color.
But perhaps most interesting is the contradictory nature of several of the survey’s key findings.
Seventy-nine percent of respondents expressed the belief that internet companies should be doing more to combat online harassment, while 85 percent of respondents felt law enforcement should also play some sort of role.
Yet, while the survey found that a majority of respondents were in favor of better and more strictly enforced anti-harassment policies, as well as legislation, it also revealed how confusing and nebulous the subject of online harassment can be. Not only was there a clear gender divide among respondents in terms of how they defined harassment, how seriously it should be taken, and how to respond to it, but 56 percent of respondents said that most people take online harassment too seriously — including some who said they’d experienced online harassment themselves.
Overall, the survey paints a stark picture of just how complex the issue of online harassment is, and how difficult it can be for individuals — let alone social media companies — to deal with.
Pew found that 62 percent of its survey respondents believe that online harassment is a “major problem.” But it also found that respondents disagree on what constitutes online harassment, and how victims of harassment should respond to it.
The survey asked respondents to sort the online harassment they’ve experienced into “less severe” and “more severe” categories, covering behaviors such as “offensive name-calling” and “purposeful embarrassment” as well as physical threats and stalking. But these classifications were complicated by how respondents characterized their experiences.
Pew concluded that respondents who had experienced only milder forms of harassment were more likely to say they’d been harassed, with 32 percent of these respondents actually classifying their most recent experience with “offensive name-calling” or “purposeful embarrassment” as harassment. But 28 percent of respondents who had experienced more severe forms of harassment “did not think of their own experiences as constituting ‘online harassment.’”
It’s worth noting that more men (30 percent) reported experiencing the mildest form of harassment (name-calling) compared to 23 percent of women, and that twice as many women reported experiencing sexual harassment (categorized as a more severe form of harassment) than men — 8 percent compared to 4 percent. Given these factors, it seems rational to speculate that women may be less likely than men to register and report certain experiences as harassment.
Pew’s survey also revealed some confusion among respondents regarding the terms that are generally used to define various kinds of online harassment. Respondents overwhelmingly knew what “hacking” (95 percent) and “trolling” (86 percent) were, but were less certain about “doxing” (73 percent) and “swatting” (55 percent). The latter two terms describe two severe forms of internet-based harassment that also have an offline/“real life” component.
This might not seem like a significant detail, but it’s a telling one in a survey where 56 percent of respondents said that most people take online harassment too seriously. If certain aspects of online harassment are not commonly understood, it can be difficult to convince people how serious they can be.
The single largest cause of online harassment, according to survey respondents, was politics. Pew concluded that neither Republicans nor Democrats were more likely to receive harassment over the other. Fourteen percent of the survey’s 4,248 respondents said they’d specifically been harassed over their politics, followed by 9 percent over their physical appearance.
Eight percent of respondents said they’d been specifically harassed over their race or ethnicity. Of those respondents in particular, 25 percent were black, 10 percent were Hispanic, and 3 percent were white.
A gender divide was also apparent. More men than women reported receiving physical threats, as well as milder forms of harassment like name-calling. And Pew concluded that men were overall more likely to report experiencing all forms of harassment.
But while 44 percent of male respondents said they’d experienced harassment, compared to 37 percent of female respondents, Pew found that women were far more likely to have experienced sexualized harassment: 21 percent of female respondents ages 18 to 29 reported being sexually harassed online, compared to just 9 percent of male respondents in the same age group. And 53 percent of women ages 18 to 29 reported being sent explicit images they had not asked for, compared to 37 percent of men. Finally, 35 percent of women who had experienced online harassment of any type described their experiences as “extremely” or “very” upsetting, compared to only 16 percent of men.
Women were also more likely than men to express concern regarding online harassment, with 70 percent of women identifying it as a “major problem,” compared to 54 percent of men. Women also more strongly favored laws, policies, and tools against online harassment, and were more concerned with creating safe spaces online, while men were more concerned with preserving free speech.
An overwhelming majority of the survey’s respondents — 79 percent — told Pew researchers that online services, including social media companies like Facebook and Twitter, have a responsibility to address harassment that occurs on their platforms and websites.
Meanwhile, nearly half of respondents — 49 percent — felt that law enforcement should “have a major role in addressing harassment.”
The report’s author, Maeve Duggan, told Vox that legislators and law enforcement should interpret Pew’s research as confirmation that they need to do more to combat online harassment.
“While a notable proportion of Americans thinks law enforcement does not take incidents of online harassment seriously enough, they still look to law enforcement for solutions,” Duggan said. “Almost half of US adults think law enforcement should play a major role in addressing online harassment, and many think the framework in which law enforcement operates should be updated — almost a third think stronger laws governing online harassment is the most effective solution.”
But while the Pew survey indicates that people want to see systemic change around the issue of online harassment, it also reveals disagreement over whose job it should be to keep us safe online. Confusion and uncertainty about what actually constitutes online harassment, as well the wide range of harassment experienced by individuals of different genders, races, and ethnic backgrounds, combine to form a messy prospect for any social media company or law enforcement agency looking to address the issue.
The New York Times reported over the weekend that Donald Trump Jr., the president’s oldest son and one of his most vocal proxies, met with a Russian lawyer on June 9, 2016 — shortly after his father became the apparent Republican nominee for president — allegedly because he was made an offer he couldn’t refuse: damaging information on Hillary Clinton.
And then, in an apparent effort to downplay the story, Trump Jr. instead confirmed it, in a story that keeps snowballing.
The sequence of events immediately renewed interest in a pop cultural comparison we’ve seen before: between Trump Jr. and Fredo Corleone, second son of mob don Vito Corleone in Francis Ford Coppola’s classic Godfather films. Twitter, being Twitter, was merciless:
Donald Trump Jr. finally proves he's the Fredo of the family in one NY Times article."I can handle things! I'm shmaaart!" pic.twitter.com/Dwss3b5Llk
TFW you're suddenly the most talked-about Corleone and they're comparing you to Don Jr. pic.twitter.com/vuTzzWX8vF
Fredo has decided he needs a wartime consigliere https://t.co/hohFUN0soD
Admittedly, the comparisons kind of make themselves. Vito (played by Marlon Brando) has three sons: Sonny (James Caan), Fredo (John Cazale), and Michael (Al Pacino). Sonny is the brash and bloody one; Michael is the calculating war hero who tries to stay out of the family business but ends up running the operation. Fredo, the middle son, is the weak link, an insecure womanizer who tries to help out but keeps sticking his foot in his mouth.
In 1972’s The Godfather, Sonny takes over the family operation after an assassination attempt on his father, but he is eventually assassinated himself, after which Vito chooses Michael — not Fredo — to run the family. Given that Michael is the youngest, and given Fredo’s insecurity, this creates a rift between the two brothers.
In The Godfather: Part II, a frustrated Fredo tries to make a power play by colluding with Johnny Ola — a rival gangster — and winds up inadvertently giving him information that helps Ola's plot to off Michael. He later tells Michael he’s never met Ola — and then royally self-owns when he blurts out to someone else that he did meet Ola.
It probably goes without saying that Fredo doesn’t last long after that. Michael sees to it.
Don Jr.’s attempt to salvage his reputation by sabotaging it instead certainly prompts the Fredo comparison — and, the Daily Beast reports, it turns out this isn’t a new nickname. Some staffers had reportedly been calling Donald Jr. Fredo (and Ivanka Michael) behind his back since the days of the campaign, when it became obvious that he lived in terror of displeasing his father but couldn’t seem to help doing so anyway:
People who worked and interacted with “Junior” during his father’s political rise in the Republican Party aren’t entirely surprised that the oldest Trump son would find himself in this mess. Current White House officials and former Trump campaign staffers recall Trump Jr. as a recurring liability and a chronic headache for the presidential campaign, prone to unforced errors and ill-advised activity on social media and elsewhere, and the precise “opposite of political savvy,” as one official put it.
Officials highlighted Trump Jr.’s failings as a campaign surrogate by pointing specifically to his news-cycle-hijacking tweet about poisoned Skittles and Syrian refugees and his friendly radio interview with Trump-boosting, white-supremacist host James Edwards in March of last year, among other incidents.
Ouch.
Of course, the comparison is somewhat flawed in the fact that Don Jr. is the oldest of Donald and Ivana Trump’s children, followed by Ivanka, then Eric (who seems to have receded from the spotlight after a recent scandal of his own). But the birth order may not matter all that much: The president’s fondness for his daughter and trust in her judgment is well known; she, along with her husband, Jared Kushner, is the only Trump child with an official post in the White House, while her brothers took over the family business. Donald Jr. tweeted about his sister recently too:
If the left is so "outraged" about Ivanka sitting in for a few minutes, maybe they'd be happier if I sub in for a while??? LMK    #MAGA https://t.co/Tfr1u8HSF3
Nonetheless, it’s not a perfect comparison — no comparison between fictional pop culture and real life ever is. And some tweeters weren’t quite convinced:
The Don Jr. is Fredo comparisons are funny, but inaccurate. Accurate wold be that Don Jr. is Fredo and the Godfather is also Fredo.
The theory that Don Jr is Fredo must and cannot grapple with the existence of Eric. This is true. I'm an expert.
Ive long wondered who the Fredo of the Trump family is and I've come to the conclusion that it's just a family of Fredos.
Everything keeps calling Don Jr "Fredo" when Don Don from Cannonball 2 is a far more accurate comparison. pic.twitter.com/VHSUpDKk4S
After the events of the past 24 hours or so, it wouldn’t be surprising to see Donald Jr. take a step back from the family business for a bit. But who knows? After all:
Note: This piece has been edited to more accurately reflect the plot of Godfather II.
After taking the week off around the July Fourth holiday, television’s late-night hosts sadly had to return from their hiatuses this week with no major news to use as fodder for jokes.
LOL, jk, we have fun.
Seemingly every day of the Trump administration’s tenure has been packed with “game changing” pieces of information, but this Sunday the New York Times broke the news that Donald Trump Jr. (plus bonus Jared Kushner and then-campaign chair Paul Manafort) had taken a meeting with a Russian lawyer during the presidential campaign for the purpose of getting “damaging” information on Hillary Clinton. Trump Jr. has since denied that he knew who would be at the meeting, and that the lawyer quickly changed the subject to Russian adoption anyway, so who cares?
Of course, as of this morning, the story has taken on a whole new life, with both Trump Jr. and the New York Times publishing the actual emails in which the president’s son expressed delight at the prospect of getting documents that would “incriminate” Clinton, so maybe the comedians’ stances on whether it’s a “smoking gun” will have changed by Tuesday night’s round of shows.
But we’re getting ahead of ourselves — that’s tonight’s late-night fodder. Until then, here are three of the standout moments from Monday night’s comedic takes on the story as it was unfolding.
Stephen Colbert’s Late Show came roaring back to life with the host’s giddy summarization of the latest in Trump scandals.
“There is no evidence of collusion or even the desire to collude with the Russians by anyone in the Trump campaign — is something that was true 48 hours ago,” Colbert began, shaking his head in amazement. “Everything with this family that you think is turns out to be.”
And while he conceded that the report still wasn’t quite “a smoking gun,” Colbert went on that this new revelation is at least “a gun, meeting with a Russian bullet about their mutual desire to smoke.”
From there, he staged a one-man play about the meeting with the Russian lawyer (a.k.a. “Corruption Galore”), complete with jazzy James Bond sound effects, waggling eyebrows, and not-so-vague astonishment at Trump Jr.’s sheer audacity.
Kimmel was similarly bewildered, saying in his monologue that Trump Jr.’s flimsy defense of why he took the meeting is like someone saying they tried to rob a bank, but they forgot it was closed on Sundays. He then invited “Kellyanne Conway” — or more accurately, a horrifying puppet wearing a Kellyanne-ish face — to come on the show to try to defend Trump Jr.’s logic.
“Okay, first of all, define ‘meeting,’” said the puppet. When Kimmel stammered, she pressed further, asking if he eats meat, and if so, “is that a meeting?!”
Related
Anyway, the puppet continued, “we should be focusing on Hillary Clinton and the shemails she’s been hiding.”
As far as takes go, this one is pretty tepid. But Kimmel still gets points from me for the puppet’s purposely shoddy production value, the likes of which I have not seen since fast-forwarding through commercials for Crank Yankers.
Over on The Daily Show, Trevor Noah almost couldn’t believe what he was reading — and not just about the meeting, but from Trump Jr.’s own statement.
“Baby, baby, baby, you don’t understand!” Noah exclaimed in his best dirtbag voice. “I only met with that other woman because I thought she wanted to fuck! Turns out she just wanted me to meet Jesus, so how you gon’ go ahead and call me a cheater, girl? Come on!”
What it comes down to, Noah marveled, is that “Donald Trump Jr.’s defense is that he tried to collude, but instead he got Russian catfished.”
And more than anything, Noah continued, the whole thing reeks not just of malice but of total incompetence. “Look, man, this is honestly stupid,” Noah said. “It is incompetent, and it is dumb.” He then pointed out that this week’s headlines could be about the US’s role in the Syrian ceasefire or getting ISIS run out of Mosul, but instead it’s all Russian scandals all over again.
“Once again,” Noah said, “we’re reminded that in a world filled with Trump enemies, their worst enemy is themselves.”
Netflix is officially making a bid to take over your Halloween weekend, as it announced today that the second season of Stranger Things will premiere October 27.
Netflix unveiled its first look at Stranger Things season two during the Super Bowl, and if you were wondering where the show will be going, the answer seems clear: Close Encounters of the Third Kind, by way of H.P. Lovecraft.
That’s what the most memorable shot of the ad suggests, at least, as one of the show’s central quintet of kids looks out of his front door to see some sort of giant, tentacled thing up in the sky, framed by horrible red light. The world is turning upside down, the ad says, and yeah, we’d say it looks like things are getting pretty intense.
But that’s not all! Also, the kids are dressing up as the Ghostbusters, everybody’s enjoying commercials for Eggos, and Will (who disappeared into the Upside Down last season) is freaking out.
No sign, just yet, of Eleven, the superpowered girl (played by Millie Bobby Brown) who became season one’s breakout character before disappearing into the void with the show’s main monster, the Demogorgon, but c’mon. You know she’ll be back.
Related
There’s also no real sign of Winona Ryder or David Harbour as the show’s main adult characters, but there’s plenty of footage of the mysterious science facilities on the outskirts of town, where portals to other worlds are opened up.
If you want to watch the multiple award-winning first season of Stranger Things, get thee to Netflix. Everybody who’s already been to the Upside Down, however, will just have to wait until October 27 for more.
The San Francisco Museum of Modern Art’s new “artbot” is this month’s helpful reminder that the internet is not just a gaping hellpit of horror and despair, but can in fact be Good.
The artbot, officially titled Send Me SFMOMA, will text art directly to your phone, on demand, in service of your every whim. Text “send me dancers” to the artbot at 572-51, and you might receive a photo of an untitled Joel Shapiro sculpture from 1989 that depicts an abstracted body in motion. Text “send me a dog,” and you might get a Pirkle Jones photo of Larry Gardner on a bicycle with a dog. Text “send me diamonds,” and the bot might respond with Alfred Jensen’s “Expulsion from Eden.”
Following a pilot program in May, the artbot in its current form launched on June 16. It exploded onto the internet over the past few days, and hit Twitter in a big way on Monday. SFMOMA was hoping to send out 100,000 texts from the artbot over the course of the summer; on Monday, they sent out 385,000.
“It’s an exciting place to be, where people want to have art in their pocket, on their phone, in a really personal way,” SFMOMA Head of Web and Digital Content Keir Winesmith tells Vox. “It’s the exact premise [of the project], we’re just really excited that it actually worked.”
But how does it work?
You can text the artbot a keyword, the name of a color, or an emoji. The artbot runs through a database — covering about half of the SFMOMA’s collection — and matches your search query to the tags that SFMOMA’s staff has painstakingly attached to each piece of artwork.
Though the team that built the artbot experimented with using computer vision, Winesmith says, they found it didn’t return very exciting results. When presented with a piece like photographer Gary Winogrand’s “New York,” in which a pregnant woman lifts up her arm to hail a taxi, human taggers listed evocative, emotion-laden keywords like family, pregnant, taxi, New York, and street corner. The computer created much more literal keywords: person, street, dark, gray.
“The intuition and the humanness of the way that our staff has been tagging” is what’s interesting, Winesmith says, “versus the linearity of the computer vision approach, [which] just makes you miss out on all of the sublime.”
But after the pilot run in May, the human staffers found they had to change their tagging methods for this project. “People were asking for some really subjective things that we traditionally wouldn’t tag our collection with,” Winesmith says. “You know, ‘beauty’: whose notion of beauty is it that you’re referring to?”
(When I asked the artbot to send me beauty, I received a photograph of the Countess de Castiglione.)
And to make things really user-friendly, they had to be trained in all the double meanings of emoji speak. “We talked to a bunch of our staff who work in social media, and a bunch who were just simply younger and more emoji-savvy,” Winesmith says. “We basically had an emoji learning session where they explained to us what the emoji actually mean, what the hidden meanings are, so that we could better connect them to work in the collection.”
So when I sent the artbot the peach emoji, it sent me a Winogrand photograph of a fully-clothed rear.
That doesn’t mean you can ask the artbot to send you just anything. “If you just send, ‘Send me naked people,’ we’re not going to send you naked people,” Winesmith says. “We’re going to say, ‘Maybe you could be more creative.’”
You also can’t have the artbot send you a specific piece of artwork or anything by a specific artist. That’s entirely intentional. “You can’t ask for Warhol and get one, because we wanted people to discover things they didn’t know about,” Winesmith says. “We wanted people to discover the hidden gems.”
In the long term, the team at SFMOMA hopes they’ll be able to use the artbot to figure out what it is that people are looking for when they turn to art. And in the short term? “We want people to be close-looking at artworks,” Winesmith says. “We want the art to be in your hands, in your life.”
To put some art in your hands, text “send me [x]” to 572-51.
Only a few days after it was officially announced, Tyler, the Creator’s upcoming album, Scum Fuck Flower Boy, has leaked ahead of its July 21 release date, prompting a flurry of discussion around the album and what appears to be a major personal revelation contained therein.
SCUM FUCK FLOWER BOY: 7/21 pic.twitter.com/b6gonFc3o1
Flower Boy is the eccentric, often controversial rapper’s first album since 2015’s Cherry Bomb, and seems to continue his penchant for self-examination and self-effacement atop surrealist live instrumentation, in contrast to more brutalist earlier work like his 2011 solo debut Goblin. Based on internet reports, guests on the album include Lil Wayne, Jaden Smith, Estelle, and rising UK R&B singer Rex Orange County.
Prior to the leak, Tyler had already released the Flower Boy tracks “Who Dat Boy” and “911/Mr. Lonely.” The former is a murky and menacing collaboration with A$AP Rocky that skews closer to the sound of Goblin, while the latter is a split track that features Tyler’s Odd Future associate Frank Ocean (among others) and is more in line with the album’s meditative sonic palette.
But in the early aftermath of the leak, other Flower Boy tracks have come to dominate the discussion around the album. Most of the conversation has centered on the track “Garden Shed,” a song with lyrics about hidden love and feeling misunderstood that have caused many to speculate whether Tyler is coming out as gay or bisexual: “Garden shed for the garçons / Them feelings I was guardin' / Heavy on my mind / All my friends lost / They couldn't read the signs,” he raps on the song’s second verse.
But the hints on Flower Boy go beyond that one line. The album’s opener, “Foreword,” addresses the women that Tyler has been with in the past, with him rapping, “Shout-out to the girls that I lead on / For occasional head and always keeping my bed warm / And trying they hardest to keep my head on straight.” And on “I Ain’t Got Time,” Tyler’s bars seem to be even more transparent: “Next line, I'll have ’em like whoa / I've been kissing white boys since 2004,” he raps.
That said, if there is an intentional coming-out narrative in Flower Boy, it’s complicated somewhat by Tyler’s history of casually using derogatory gay slurs as well as making opaque statements about his sexuality. On Goblin, he used anti-gay language more than 200 times, prompting both furor and assurances that he is “not homophobic,” and in 2015 he was criticized for releasing a shirt that reimagined a white supremacist logo in rainbow colors (he also happened to be holding hands with another man in the press photo).
Recently, though, Tyler’s feelings toward homosexuality appear to be coming into focus — or at least to the extent that they apply to one celebrity in particular. He’s tweeted about finding young Leonardo DiCaprio “beautiful,” and says, “I’m currently lookin’ for ’95 Leo” on “Who Dat Boy.” He’s also frequently joked about his sexuality through social media and even in an interview with Rolling Stone (in which, when asked whether his propensity for “gay humor” comes from suppressed feelings, he says he would “one hundred percent go gay” for DiCaprio circa 1996).
so beautiful my god pic.twitter.com/hSR0BRNkW5
Tyler’s past statements make it difficult to ascertain to what extent he’s serious about any revelation regarding his sexuality — as evidenced by a tweet from April 2015 that says he “tried to come out the damn closet like four days ago and no one cared.” Predictably, that tweet is circulating again in light of the Flower Boy leak, prompting mixed reactions from fans at the perceived revelations on the album.
Tyler, the Creator coming out as gay is some of the least surprising yet very surprising news I've heard in a while.
Coincidentally, the leak comes on the five-year anniversary of Frank Ocean’s Channel Orange, which was accompanied by a similar discussion. Prior to the album’s release, Ocean self-published a letter describing an unrequited love he had for another man as a teenager, and the track “Forrest Gump” received attention because its subject was male. At the time, Tyler tweeted that he was “proud” of Ocean, among a host of related (and profane) thoughts.
In keeping with that connection, Tyler seems to reference Ocean on “Garden Shed” when he raps, “Truth is, since a youth kid, thought it was a phase / Thought it'd be like the Frank; poof, gone / But it's still goin' on.”
Tyler has not yet addressed the leaks or the speculation, but he did take time out of the day to post a video announcing a partnership with Converse.
CONVERSE AND I ARE FRIENDS NOW https://t.co/3ATI8849Gj
There’s a lot to love about Spider-Man: Homecoming: the awkward high school moments like the little boy in chess club or the academic decathlon team sneaking out of their hotel rooms to swim; a massive character reveal; the elastic fight scenes; and, of course, Tom Holland’s star-making turn as Peter Parker.
But one of the best parts of the film is a loving homage to Peter Parker’s co-creator, Steve Ditko.
In Homecoming’s third act, Peter confronts the Vulture (Michael Keaton) in his lair as he’s preparing to rob a plane carrying all kinds of important technology and weapons. The Vulture takes off with his jetpack, flying around the building and slicing through its load-bearing pillars, causing it to collapse. Because he’s airborne, he escapes unscathed. But Peter is buried underneath tons of rubble — crying, injured, and feeling defeated.
The scene looks to be a live-action tribute to Amazing Spider-Man No. 33, co-written by Stan Lee and Ditko, the latter of whom also drew the comic:
That arc, “If This Be My Destiny” (which ran from issues 31 to 33), is considered one of the best Spider-Man arcs of all time. And Ditko’s illustration work has been praised for how it shows the pain that Spider-Man feels, as well as his doubt and resiliency — you could erase the entire monologue, and the way Ditko draws Spidey’s body language and expression would tell the entire story, in spite of the fact that the character is wearing a mask:
In Amazing Spider-Man No. 33, the circumstances are a bit different than they are in Spider-Man: Homecoming, in that Spider-Man is facing a different villain (Doctor Octopus) and is pinned by rubble while trying to reach a serum that he needs in order to save Aunt May’s life.
But the sentiment is still the same.
In both Amazing Spider-Man No. 33 and Spider-Man: Homecoming, the scene shows Spider-Man at his weakest — he’s down and out. He’s broken and bruised and needs help. But he doesn’t give up, because he needs to save the innocent people whose lives depend on him.
One of the frequent criticisms that comics fans level against Stan Lee’s legacy is that Lee took all of the credit and often left none to spare when it came to work and characters that he co-created with legends like Ditko, including Spider-Man. But this scene in Spider-Man: Homecoming won’t let anyone forget what a genius Steve Ditko was at giving life to the legendary webslinger.
America’s drug crisis has led to another tragic celebrity death. Only the drug crisis in this case isn’t the nation’s opioid epidemic. Instead, it’s a drug crisis that’s been with us for much longer: alcohol.
Last week, True Blood actor Nelsan Ellis died at age 39. A few days after his death, Ellis’s family released a statement to the Hollywood Reporter confirming the death was linked to alcohol and other drugs:
Nelsan’s father has bravely agreed for me to share the circumstances of Nelsan’s heart failure. Nelsan has suffered with drug and alcohol abuse for years. After many stints in rehab, Nelsan attempted to withdraw from alcohol on his own. According to his father, during his withdrawal from alcohol he had a blood infection, his kidneys shut down, his liver was swollen, his blood pressure plummeted, and his dear sweet heart raced out of control.
On the morning of Saturday July 8th, after four days in Woodhull Hospital, Nelsan was pronounced dead. Nelsan was a gentle, generous and kind soul. He was a father, a son, a grandson, a brother, a nephew, and a great friend to those that were lucky enough to know him. Nelsan was ashamed of his addiction and thus was reluctant to talk about it during his life. His family, however, believes that in death he would want his life to serve as a cautionary tale in an attempt to help others.
We don’t know specifics beyond what Ellis’s family said in the statement.
But one thing we do know is that this kind of death has happened many times before, and may happen potentially thousands of times this year alone.
The most recent analysis from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimated that alcohol is linked to 88,000 deaths every year — more than the 52,000 who died to drug overdoses in 2015. If anything, the alcohol estimate is likely too low. It’s from 2006 through 2010, but more recent data suggests that at least some alcohol deaths are trending up: Between 2010 and 2015, the number of alcohol-induced deaths (those that involve direct health complications from alcohol, like liver cirrhosis) rose from less than 26,000 to more than 33,000.
That’s only the deaths. Alcohol is also linked to millions of hospitalizations every year, as well as crime and violence.
It’s clear that alcohol misuse is a serious problem — one that, again, the data suggests is getting worse. Yet it’s a problem that gets little public attention.
Last year, the US surgeon general released the results of an extensive investigation into drug misuse and addiction in America. Out of the many numbers in the report, this was the most shocking: Only 10 percent of Americans suffering from a drug use disorder get specialty treatment. Just imagine if there were similar numbers for other deadly diseases; it would be widely considered a national disgrace.
The report attributed the low uptake of addiction care to severe shortages in the supply of care, with some areas of the country, particularly rural counties, lacking affordable options for treatment.
Another problem, alluded to by the statement from Ellis’s family, is that often the addiction care available to people just isn’t very good.
Consider the gold standard for opioid addiction care: medication-assisted treatment, when drug users are given medications to treat their addiction. The research shows medication-assisted treatment is highly effective — with several studies showing it can cut the all-cause mortality rate among opioid addiction patients by half or more, and groups like the CDC, the National Institute on Drug Abuse, and the World Health Organization supporting its use.
Yet very often, this kind of treatment isn’t accessible — often due to explicit policy decisions. As one example, the federal government caps how much buprenorphine, a kind of opioid addiction medication, can be prescribed to patients. As a result, a HuffPost analysis found that even if every doctor who can prescribe buprenorphine did so at the maximum rate in 2012, more than half of Americans with opioid use disorders could not get the medication.
With alcohol, we also have effective medications for treatment. One of those drugs is also used for opioid treatment: naltrexone. Yet they’re often inaccessible to patients, because patients either don’t know about the drugs or can’t find a doctor or clinic to provide them.
America can do a lot more to offer the full spectrum of care for people suffering from addiction. Based on the surgeon general’s report, though, it doesn’t provide even the bare minimum to 90 percent of those afflicted by a drug use disorder.
Beyond access to treatment, there are other steps America can take to address its problems with alcohol.
When Americans think about alcohol policy, the first thing that comes to mind is probably Prohibition, which effectively banned the manufacture and sale of alcohol from 1920 to 1933. But there are all sorts of other policies that could help address bad outcomes due to drinking.
A small sample:
These are just a few of the ideas that experts have put out there. There are many more ways to curtail alcohol consumption and misuse without outright banning it.
Maybe these policies still go too far for some people. Different individuals will likely disagree on whether these proposals go too far in restricting personal liberty, even if they do save some lives. But the research suggests such policies are at least worth considering.
Yet lawmakers have paid very little attention to alcohol policy. As Philip Cook, a public policy expert at Duke University who wrote Paying the Tab: The Costs and Benefits of Alcohol Control, previously told me, the last time Congress raised the federal alcohol tax was 1991 — and that has let the actual impact of the tax erode due to increasing inflation.
“The great opportunity we have is to restore taxes to the real value that they had a few decades ago,” Cook said. “That’s justified by the current social costs of drinking, and would have all kinds of beneficial effects, while being justified just from the point of view that drinkers should pay for the damage that they do.”
Part of the problem is that policymakers just don’t feel much pressure to act on these kinds of public health problems — at least in the same way they feel compelled to act on an issue like, say, terrorism. So thousands of people continue to die needlessly every year.
War for the Planet of the Apes, arriving in theaters on July 14, is the final installment of one of the rarest things in Hollywood: a major film trilogy where each successive film was better than the last.
Rise of the Planet of the Apes, released in 2011, was a pleasant surprise, with its story about humanity inadvertently inventing its successor (a species of intelligent apes). Dawn of the Planet of the Apes (2014) deepened and intensified that first film’s themes within a post-apocalyptic setting, where the chance of humans and intelligent apes finding a kind of peaceful rapprochement seemed possible but was ultimately lost, due to both groups’ inherent prejudices.
The new movie is better than both of its predecessors, a muscular, surprisingly quiet film about how the end of some things is the beginning of others. It boasts terrific, tense action sequences, but also a real, poetic sense of longing for a world long gone. It’s one of my favorite films of the year so far, and it deepens a little bit every time I think about it, which is always a good sign of its staying power.
But watching it put me in mind of another film trilogy — the first three Bourne films. (Technically, there are five Bourne films total, but the opening trio stands alone so well and overlaps with the Apes films so well that I’m going to focus on them.) In similar fashion to the Apes films, 2002’s The Bourne Identity was a surprising action series opener, with 2004’s The Bourne Supremacy exploring its themes in unexpected ways, and 2007’s Bourne Ultimatum capping the series in terrific fashion (and winning a few Oscars along the way).
And that comparison point naturally suggests the question: How can the Bourne and Apes movies get franchise filmmaking so right that they transcend the crass commercialism of even some of our best blockbusters, to become something more artistic and challenging, where so many other franchises flounder? The answer is twofold — one part technique, and one part (as with all the best movies) purely accidental.
The endlessly revived (not to mention useless and boring) debate over whether movies or TV are better in the 2010s misses one important point. In the 2010s, movies and TV, more often than not, are converging.
Sure, the filmmaking on Game of Thrones has not yet reached the level of the best blockbusters, but it puts something like Suicide Squad to shame. And the biggest projects in both mediums tend toward increased levels of serialization. (On TV, that results in high-wire storytelling; in movies, it mostly results in lots of “cinematic universes” that die before they can live.) And the closer we get to a world where everybody watches everything in their living room anyway, the more likely it seems that we’ll eventually differentiate “film” from “television” based on the length of the story being told.
What the Apes films have in common with the Bourne films — and with the best television shows — is their understanding that each chapter of the saga must stand on its own, teasing only the briefest of glimpses at future films. (The first film ends with a virus that will all but eliminate humanity escaping into the wild; the second ends with the human military finally training its forces on the apes.)
In the case of the second and third Apes films, at least, this makes sense. Their director is Matt Reeves, one of the best blockbuster directors out there, in that he blends the classicism of ’40s and ’50s Hollywood filmmaking with the knowledge he amassed while working on TV very early in its golden age. (Among other things, he co-created the undervalued dramedy Felicity with fellow TV-to-movie hand J.J. Abrams.) Thus, he’s able to hark back to the roots of our blockbuster era, when directors like George Lucas, Steven Spielberg, and Robert Zemeckis turned their all-encompassing movie knowledge into a rush of forward momentum, rooted in Hollywood classicism, while blending those roots with our modern taste for big, serialized sagas.
But it’s that choice to make the story an epic one, in particular, that has elevated Apes. The three films almost exclusively focus on one character — the ape leader Caesar — and even though other characters move through the three-film story with him, they’re all apes.
Fittingly, the films completely switch major human casts with each new chapter, going from the friendly, loving affection of James Franco and John Lithgow (who raise baby Caesar) in the first film to the cautious optimism of Jason Clarke and Keri Russell (who try to broker peace with him) in the second to the almost completely amoral Woody Harrelson (who wants to exterminate Caesar) in the third film. The main constant is Caesar, who moves from child to revolutionary to leader, then has to deal with the burden of power.
This is perhaps why these new Apes films have escaped the trap so many other franchises have fallen into — failing to provide a reason to exist. The original five Planet of the Apes movies in the ’60s and ’70s eventually got around to making the apes their main characters, but only after a couple of movies where humans were tossed onto the titular planet to gawk at the funhouse mirror it threw up to human society. For this reason, Tim Burton’s mostly faithful 2001 remake of the original Planet of the Apes flopped critically. There was no center.
But the latest Apes films have thought long and hard about what would make this series distinctive, and have found it within the nascent ape society. Flipping the perspective didn’t just give the series a reason to exist; it allowed the free-floating politics that have always hovered around the edges of the Apes movies (where the apes are human-like, but not too human-like, which lets them symbolize essentially any oppressed group of people you want them to symbolize without directly calling your attention to it) to move closer to the core of the story.
And that’s where this Apes trilogy got a little bit lucky.
Harrelson’s character in War is trying to build a massive wall to keep out invaders. He’s recruited what amounts to ape slave labor to do just that. The screenplay for this film was probably written long before the political rise of Donald Trump, but there’s no way the filmmakers didn’t note the similarities of their wall to Trump’s proposed wall at some point during War’s production last year.
It’s just the latest way in which the Apes franchise feels as if it’s accidentally landed in the social and cultural zeitgeist of the 2010s. The Bourne films — all about the lengths the intelligence community will go to to keep Americans “safe” — behaved similarly in the 2000s, but Paul Greengrass (who directed the latter two films in that first trilogy) openly invited the comparisons of Jason Bourne’s adventures to the Bush-era surveillance state. Reeves and the Apes folks haven’t done much of that with their films.
In some ways, they shouldn’t have to. The themes that War plays around with are elemental ones, and they’d be cheapened a little bit by trying to slap a Make America Great Again hat on them to make them more feel Relevant and Important.
Like so many works of “relevant” art to emerge early in the Trump era, War is a movie about Right Now that is also about Always. Taken in total, the three Apes films are movies about the chilling effects of prejudice and how hard it is to attain peace when any one member of your community could set off war. They’re about the hard-won struggle to attain forgiveness and the intersections of justice and mercy.
And they’re about big battles and pulse-pounding escapes from danger and all those other things moviegoers have always loved. (They’re also visual effects landmarks in that Caesar, played by Andy Serkis, is the unquestioned lead of the movies, even though the character is created entirely via motion capture.)
But it also doesn’t undercut the movies to suggest that watching the sometimes bleak but ultimately hopeful War made me feel like I better understood the world we live in right now, at least a little bit. The apes and the humans in these films each believe the other poses an existential threat to their very life, and neither side is wrong to think that, which means they may be fated to fight even both of them would ultimately rather not.
The Apes films succeed because everyone involved took an approach to franchise filmmaking that eschewed the current vogue for creating movies that feel like endless teases for other movies; the trilogy is smartly wedded to good, old-fashioned blockbuster knowhow. But it certainly doesn’t hurt that it arrived at a time when more and more people around the world believe we are on the precipice of something terrible, and that we’re in danger of being destroyed by the forces all around us.
That feeling doesn’t have to be a bad thing. It can, instead, be a warning to step back from the brink — or at the very least that the planet itself will outlive us all, human and ape alike. The ending of my story can carry within it the beginning of yours and vice versa. That can be scary or beautiful; it’s all in who’s narrating.
War for the Planet of the Apes opens July 14 in theaters everywhere. The first two films in this current trilogy are available on DVD and digital platforms. We’ll post a full review of the third film closer to its opening.
Ready your cringe instincts now: Curb Your Enthusiasm’s long-awaited ninth season officially has a premiere date, with HBO announcing today that the comedy will return on October 1.
The fact that Curb will have a ninth season at all came as something of a surprise, given that the show hasn’t aired since 2011. Though season eight wasn’t officially the series’ last, five years passed before HBO and casually noncommittal creator and star Larry David formally announced that there would be more after all.
"In the immortal words of Julius Caesar, ‘I left, I did nothing, I returned,’” David said when HBO announced Curb’s ninth season back in June of 2016, keeping things exactly as wry as you’d expect from the man whose grimace has become his comedic signature.
Though we don’t yet know much about season nine, we do know that many of Curb’s original cast — most notably Susie Essman, Ted Danson, Mary Steenburgen, J.B. Smoove, Cheryl Hines, and Jeff Garlin — will be back for more. The series started filming last November, as an HBO tease with Smoove trying to lure David out of his trailer revealed. (Unsurprising spoiler alert: He failed.)
Season 9 of #CurbYourEnthusiasm just started shooting and Larry couldn’t be more excited! @ohsnapjbsmoove pic.twitter.com/o1PWlndFBi
Lauren Graham, fresh off the Netflix revival of Gilmore Girls, is also joining Curb’s ninth season, in a recurring role. According to Graham, “this character is completely not me at all. I speak in a way that I don’t speak ever.”
Again, it’s unclear what Graham or anyone else involved with the series will really be up to this time around. But it’s a safe bet that the first Curb season to air in six years will have a lot to say about a lot of different things, and plenty of existential dread to work with.
Spider-Man: Homecoming is the most referential movie in the Marvel Cinematic universe, jam-packed with nods to the comic books and laced with treats for fans of both the Marvel universe and Peter Parker’s comic book origins. From a wink to Deadpool to a Miles Morales reference to a Cindy Moon spotting, there’s all types of stuff in Homecoming that casual fans may have missed, and that even fans might need a second viewing to really catch.
Here are five of the movie’s best Easter eggs; needless to say, there are spoilers ahead.
The Easter egg:  In the movie’s second act, Peter Parker (Tom Holland) goes back through his suit’s visual memory and finds Aaron Davis (Donald Glover), one of the men present during the arms deal that Peter broke up when he ditched Liz’s house party. The suit identifies Davis as having the alias “Prowler,” and when Peter confronts him he talks about his nephew who lives in the neighborhood and how he wants to keep the weapons off the street.
What it means: In one timeline of Marvel’s comic books, Davis is the uncle of the character known as Miles Morales. Morales is the black-Hispanic Spider-Man that takes over Peter Parker’s title in the alternate universe (known as the “Ultimate” universe) and is a reader favorite. Further, Davis’s license plate in the movie is “UCS-M01,” what appears to be a reference to Ultimate Comics Spider-Man no. 1 — the first appearance of Miles Morales.
There are actually some other elements that Homecoming borrows and adapts from the Ultimate universe, like Miles’s Asian-American best friend Ganke, whom the movie’s Ned (Jacob Batalon) seems to be based on. And in the bottom right-hand corner of the screen where Davis is identified, the name “Brian Pichelli” appears — possibly a nod to writer Brian Michael Bendis and artist Sara Pichelli, who together originated Miles Morales.
The Easter egg: An Asian-American girl named Cindy is on Peter Parker’s Academic Decathlon team.
What it means: We didn’t get to see much of Cindy (Tiffany Espensen), but the movie seems to be winking at the existence of Cindy Moon, the Marvel hero known as Silk. Silk was bit by the same spider that bit Peter Parker and gave him powers, and that spider granted her similar powers.
The Easter egg: During the gym class scene, Liz and her friends are playing “fuck, marry, kill” with Avengers characters. When Liz says she has a thing for Spider-Man, her friend admonishes her, pointing out that no one knows what Spider-Man looks like underneath his mask and that he could have massive burns on his face.
What it means: This joke seems to be at the expense of Deadpool, a character whose costume is similar to Spider-Man’s, but is in almost every other way the hero’s opposite. Deadpool is a Marvel antihero with massive burns on his face, and is a bit of a smart-ass — Ryan Reynolds played him in Fox’s 2015 titular movie. Deadpool and Spider-Man also share a comic book, Spider-Man/Deadpool, that plays on the comedic chemistry between the two.
As part of the X-Men cinematic universe, Deadpool’s movie rights lie with Fox, so we’re probably never going to get a movie where Sony’s Spider-Man and Deadpool share the screen. But the little joke is a pretty nice reminder of both heroes’ offscreen relationship.
The Easter egg: Prior to the final fight, Happy (Jon Favreau) is going over the moving plane’s inventory and mentions a new prototype for Captain America’s (Chris Evans) shield.
What it means: Homecoming takes place after the events of Captain America: Civil War, a movie that saw the dissolution of the Captain America-Iron Man friendship. Cap’s shield was heavily damaged in the final fight of Civil War, and Cap left it with Iron Man. Which raises the question of why, after Civil War, Iron Man would have a new prototype of Captain America’s shield?
The Easter egg seems to indicate that, despite their differences, Iron Man is still working on or repairing Cap’s shield, and possibly harbors no ill will toward Cap. Or perhaps Iron Man sees a future where the two work together again. With Infinity War on the way, it seems like more of a given than a possibility.
The Easter egg: During the Washington Monument rescue scene, “Karen,” the AI in Peter’s suit, tells him to kiss Liz after he rescues her.
What it means: The staging of this scene is an homage to the kiss between Peter (Tobey Maguire)  and MJ (Kirsten Dunst) from Sony’s first Spider-Man film: an upside down, rain-soaked kiss where MJ pulls Spidey’s mask halfway down before planting one on his exposed lips. The Homecoming scene is similar in that Spidey is upside down and just rescued Liz, and she could easily recreate the scene by pulling his mask down halfway. However, the kiss never happens — maybe because Peter falls before it can, or maybe because Liz isn’t MJ.

If any part of teen girl culture is prone to particular scorn, it’s band fandom: the girls who burst into tears at the sight of Justin Bieber and write elaborate fanfiction about how Louis Tomlinson and Harry Styles from One Direction are clearly secretly in love. Those girls are so culturally reviled that other teenage girls make fun of them. And it’s those girls who are the subject of Zan Romanoff’s warm, funny, occasionally cringe-inducing new YA novel, Grace and the Fever.
Rating
Grace is a fan of Fever Dream, a One Direction-esque boy band that she is well aware was no longer cool to like after age 14. Now 18 years old and just graduated from high school, Grace has developed an elaborate double life to hide her embarrassing obsession from the rest of her classmates. To her friends offline, she’s the quiet girl who doesn’t drink at parties but is otherwise pretty normal. But to her friends on Tumblr, she’s a bastion of Fever Dream fandom; more specifically, the corner of Fever Dream fandom that is pretty sure Fever Dream band members Solly and Land are secretly in love, and that “the management” has forced them to keep it a secret.
One day, Grace happens to make the acquaintance of Fever Dream singer Jes — and gets photographed by the paparazzi doing it. That’s when her two worlds start to collide. Suddenly, she’s a person of interest to the gossip industry, and that makes her the sworn enemy of most of her fellow Fever Dream fans, who are convinced she’s a plant hired by “the management” to keep everyone from figuring out the truth about Solly and Land. As a result, Grace must navigate the tricky waters of public life next to her favorite band without letting the band itself or her offline friends know that she’s a superfan, and without letting her fandom know she’s the girl they all hate.
Related
There’s more than a whiff of fantasy fulfillment to this premise, with its “what if a Larry shipper got to meet Zayn and also make out with him a few times” vibe. But what makes Grace and the Fever so compelling is that it digs deep into what makes the fantasy of music fandom appealing, and then takes it apart.
This book is interested in what makes Fever Dream so deeply, passionately important to Grace and her fan friends, and in how Grace came to be so invested in the idea that Solly and Land are in love. It cares about the emotional function that a boy band can serve for teenage girls, how it gives them a safe space to project feelings and fantasies and romantic ideas onto unattainable ideals, and how fandom can form an immensely important community of, as Romanoff puts it, “funny, obsessive” people.
But the fantasy of the boy band only works as long as it’s unattainable. As Grace gets closer and closer to the Fever Dream boys, the book explores the creepy underbelly of the band-fan relationship: how the fan tends to blindly objectify and the band to blindly use, how the relationship seems to preclude either party recognizing the other as a human being. The relationship is valuable, Romanoff suggests, but it only works if everyone involved keeps their distance.
Grace and the Fever is a warm and thoughtful exploration of fannishness in all its multifaceted complexity, and it’s a sweet-natured coming of age story too. But most of all, it’s a love letter to band fandom, and all the funny, obsessive, reviled teenage girls who created it.
Correction: An earlier version of this article stated that the Larry Stylinson portmanteau refers to Harry Styles and Liam Payne. It refers to Harry Styles and Louis Tomlinson.
There's a joke at the end of Spider-Man: Homecoming in which Happy, Tony Stark's loyal body-man, produces an engagement ring from his pocket and says, "I've been carrying this since 2008!"
It's a gentle nudge meant to remind us of the rich history these characters share, with both each other and their loyal viewers. Next year, the Marvel Cinematic Universe will turn 10 years old. In that time, it has upended Hollywood’s blockbuster business model, establishing the formula for overlapping big-budget franchises connected by shared characters and setting.
The MCU’s longevity and continued success is a testament to its strength; there may be no stronger brand amongst studio blockbusters. But the ring scene in Homecoming is also a reminder that the Marvel movie universe is no longer young — and specifically, that Robert Downey Jr., whose Iron Man/Tony Stark is the franchise’s founding and central player, is getting older.
Downey is now 52, and although he has carried the role so far, at some point he won't be able to — or simply won't want to — play Iron Man anymore. This is one of the challenges inherent in building a mega-movie franchise like Marvel's.
Unlike the serialized comic books the studio’s films are based on — which could allow characters to age slowly or not at all, and which never had to deal with lapsed contracts for favorite characters — Marvel’s star performers, which include Downey Jr. as well as the Chrises Evans (Captain America), Pratt (Guardians of the Galaxy’s Peter Quill), and Hemsworth (Thor), will eventually move on from their roles. And when that inevitably happens, the MCU will have to evolve.
But in many ways, its evolution has already begun.
For a big-screen money machine like the MCU, this forced change represents a certain kind of peril. But in the long run, it could be the path to keeping the MCU alive and thriving for generations.
To understand the predicament in which Marvel could find itself, it helps to look at the X-Men film franchise, which, despite originating in Marvel’s print comics, is owned by Fox.
When X-Men debuted in 2000, before the MCU existed, it was a true ensemble project. But it quickly became clear that the core of the franchise that followed was a trio of characters and actors: Ian McKellen as Magneto, Patrick Stewart as Professor X, and Hugh Jackman as Wolverine. When the series began, Jackman was in his early 30s, but both Stewart and McKellan were already pushing 60.
In the years since, both Magneto and Professor X have been played, often quite effectively, by younger actors (James McAvoy and Michael Fassbender, respectively). But on several occasions, both have come back to reprise older versions of their roles. The series can’t quite seem to move on from the stars who first defined the series.
Indeed, Jackman has continued to play Wolverine, carrying the character, and in some sense the X-Men movie brand — appearing in a trio of solo films, and stopping by for cameos in several X-Men films he's otherwise not in — through two decades on screen. If anything, he’s grown into an even more impressive physical presence (his workout routine is exhausting simply to read), but at 48 he is clearly aging out of the role. This year’s Wolverine solo adventure, Logan, reunited him with Stewart (now 76) in a somber, elegiac look at aging superheroes. It’s almost certain to be the last time either actor plays their respective X-roles, especially since both of their characters died.
Related
Logan is among the best of the X-films, in large part because it leans into the aging of the actors, drawing on the ways their bodies and voices have changed, as well as the years of history viewers have with both. It works because it brings the X-Men franchise and its core characters to their logical end.
But today’s expanded movie universes aren’t allowed to end. Their whole point is to provide a stream of guaranteed box-office hits, pre-sold to viewers who are predisposed to love the characters and the brand. They are feature-length advertisements for more feature-length advertisements, each one designed to sell the next thing as much as itself. And that’s where the X-films have faltered.
Related
X-Men: Apocalypse, the most recent entry in the main series (the X-movie continuity is complicated, and honestly doesn't fully hold together) brought in a new cast of young actors to play key roles, with McAvoy and Fassbender serving as its anchors. But the film was a dud. Without the principals who had defined the series early on, it seemed to have no idea what to do.
It’s not too difficult to imagine Marvel becoming bogged down in a universe defined by a handful of characters played by aging actors. Last year’s Captain America: Civil War set up a universe with two centers of moral (and narrative) gravity — Downey Jr.’s Iron Man on the one hand and Chris Evans’s Captain America on the other.
Evans said he might quit playing the role when his contract is up after the fourth Avengers film that’s currently scheduled for 2019. But then he walked back the remark, suggesting he might be willing to keep playing the character. Downey Jr., meanwhile, has been coy about how long he'll keep playing Iron Man, saying recently that he wants to quit before it becomes "embarrassing."
In some ways, it’s hard to envision the MCU without Captain America or Iron Man. But it’s clear that Marvel is already planning ahead, trying to make the most of the talent it has developed while also building a future that doesn’t overly rely on the MCU’s first generation of stars.
For one thing, Hollywood now treats visible signs of aging as a technical problem to be solved. Over the past decade, digital “makeup” designed to make older actors look young again has grown increasingly sophisticated. This is most apparent in showy effects set pieces like the one in Civil War that transformed the middle-aged Downey Jr. into a teenage Tony Stark, or the scene in Ant-Man that presented a much younger Michael Douglas. But digital makeup is also used in more subtle ways, to achieve an effect that is more akin to plastic surgery — making actors look like slightly more youthful versions of themselves. Expensive effects can’t counteract aging entirely, but they go a long way to mitigating it.
At some point, though, Marvel’s biggest stars are still going to move on from their roles. For Marvel, then, the trick is to build do what Fox never did with the X-films and build a franchise that isn’t dependent on a few above-the-title names. That’s a lot of what the studio’s recent and upcoming releases manage to accomplish.
The two Guardians of the Galaxy films have already established a quartet of new heroes and stars, with yet another affable 30-something named Chris in the lead role. Last fall’s Doctor Strange brought yet another cynical, selfish, wisecracking, extremely powerful middle-aged rich guy into the universe — a potential understudy for the position that Tony Stark now inhabits.
And now Spider-Man, of course, has been brought into the fold from rival studio Sony (although Sony still owns the rights to the character) in a deal that gives Marvel access to one of the most popular and well-known characters in comics. The appearance of Iron Man in Homecoming serves as a kind of passing of the torch. In some sense, Stark isn’t just teaching Peter Parker how to be a mature and responsible hero; he’s showing him how to anchor a billion-dollar franchise.
Plus, thanks to the complex and unusual contractual arrangements between Sony and Marvel, Spider-Man may have to hold down not just one franchise, but two. At just 21 years old, Holland, who is reportedly signed to play Spider-Man in six different films, has plenty of years left to play a superhero, should he want to continue.
But Marvel isn’t just queuing up replacements. The studio is also expanding the MCU with new characters like Black Panther and Captain Marvel, each of whom are set to get solo films — and, potentially, sub-franchises — of their own.
Meanwhile, MCU mastermind Kevin Feige has indicated that Marvel’s films will change direction after many of the current major plot threads are wrapped up in the fourth Avengers film. With the reality-bending Infinity Gauntlet, which has sometimes been used to overhaul Marvel’s print-comics universe, in the mix, don’t be surprised to see major characters die or change radically as Marvel's movie universe enters what its overseers refer to as Phase 4.
Marvel, in other words, is trying to avoid the problems that have sometimes plagued the X-franchise, which ultimately became too dependent on a handful of actors and their characters, and broke down when they weren’t around. Instead of focusing on a small number of popular characters and performers, Marvel is building a deep well of talent and story, one that can survive the retirement of any individual hero.
It’s a good business strategy, because it spreads out risk, reducing the studio’s dependency on any single performer. But it’s also a recipe for continued creative vitality, because it forces Marvel’s creative minds to pursue fresh stories, settings, and motivations. It simultaneously relies on formula while incorporating growth, change, and evolution into the equation. And in a business where the dominant strategy for tentpole productions amounts to, “Repeat what has already worked, but bigger,” that’s no small feat.
Indeed, competitors have already seemed to pick up on Marvel’s strategy: The big hope for Fox’s X-franchise at this point is to launch a side franchise built around the antics of Ryan Reynolds’s Deadpool.
Maybe someday Marvel’s universe will collapse under its own weight, as the producers attempt to juggle too many characters and too many nine-figure blockbusters at once. Maybe someday the universe will have to reset and reboot, as Marvel’s print comics have done so many times.
But so far the MCU strategy has worked remarkably well. Indeed, Marvel has come closer than any other studio to building the holy grail of blockbuster filmmaking: a popular, critically acclaimed, massively profitable franchise that can truly live forever.
There's a joke at the end of Spider-Man: Homecoming in which Happy, Tony Stark's loyal body-man, produces an engagement ring from his pocket and says, "I've been carrying this since 2008!"
It's a gentle nudge meant to remind us of the rich history these characters share, with both each other and their loyal viewers. Next year, the Marvel Cinematic Universe will turn 10 years old. In that time, it has upended Hollywood’s blockbuster business model, establishing the formula for overlapping big-budget franchises connected by shared characters and setting.
The MCU’s longevity and continued success is a testament to its strength; there may be no stronger brand amongst studio blockbusters. But the ring scene in Homecoming is also a reminder that the Marvel movie universe is no longer young — and specifically, that Robert Downey Jr., whose Iron Man/Tony Stark is the franchise’s founding and central player, is getting older.
Downey is now 52, and although he has carried the role so far, at some point he won't be able to — or simply won't want to — play Iron Man anymore. This is one of the challenges inherent in building a mega-movie franchise like Marvel's.
Unlike the serialized comic books the studio’s films are based on — which could allow characters to age slowly or not at all, and which never had to deal with lapsed contracts for favorite characters — Marvel’s star performers, which include Downey Jr. as well as the Chrises Evans (Captain America), Pratt (Guardians of the Galaxy’s Peter Quill), and Hemsworth (Thor), will eventually move on from their roles. And when that inevitably happens, the MCU will have to evolve.
But in many ways, its evolution has already begun.
For a big-screen money machine like the MCU, this forced change represents a certain kind of peril. But in the long run, it could be the path to keeping the MCU alive and thriving for generations.
To understand the predicament in which Marvel could find itself, it helps to look at the X-Men film franchise, which, despite originating in Marvel’s print comics, is owned by Fox.
When X-Men debuted in 2000, before the MCU existed, it was a true ensemble project. But it quickly became clear that the core of the franchise that followed was a trio of characters and actors: Ian McKellen as Magneto, Patrick Stewart as Professor X, and Hugh Jackman as Wolverine. When the series began, Jackman was in his early 30s, but both Stewart and McKellan were already pushing 60.
In the years since, both Magneto and Professor X have been played, often quite effectively, by younger actors (James McAvoy and Michael Fassbender, respectively). But on several occasions, both have come back to reprise older versions of their roles. The series can’t quite seem to move on from the stars who first defined the series.
Indeed, Jackman has continued to play Wolverine, carrying the character, and in some sense the X-Men movie brand — appearing in a trio of solo films, and stopping by for cameos in several X-Men films he's otherwise not in — through two decades on screen. If anything, he’s grown into an even more impressive physical presence (his workout routine is exhausting simply to read), but at 48 he is clearly aging out of the role. This year’s Wolverine solo adventure, Logan, reunited him with Stewart (now 76) in a somber, elegiac look at aging superheroes. It’s almost certain to be the last time either actor plays their respective X-roles, especially since both of their characters died.
Related
Logan is among the best of the X-films, in large part because it leans into the aging of the actors, drawing on the ways their bodies and voices have changed, as well as the years of history viewers have with both. It works because it brings the X-Men franchise and its core characters to their logical end.
But today’s expanded movie universes aren’t allowed to end. Their whole point is to provide a stream of guaranteed box-office hits, pre-sold to viewers who are predisposed to love the characters and the brand. They are feature-length advertisements for more feature-length advertisements, each one designed to sell the next thing as much as itself. And that’s where the X-films have faltered.
Related
X-Men: Apocalypse, the most recent entry in the main series (the X-movie continuity is complicated, and honestly doesn't fully hold together) brought in a new cast of young actors to play key roles, with McAvoy and Fassbender serving as its anchors. But the film was a dud. Without the principals who had defined the series early on, it seemed to have no idea what to do.
It’s not too difficult to imagine Marvel becoming bogged down in a universe defined by a handful of characters played by aging actors. Last year’s Captain America: Civil War set up a universe with two centers of moral (and narrative) gravity — Downey Jr.’s Iron Man on the one hand and Chris Evans’s Captain America on the other.
Evans said he might quit playing the role when his contract is up after the fourth Avengers film that’s currently scheduled for 2019. But then he walked back the remark, suggesting he might be willing to keep playing the character. Downey Jr., meanwhile, has been coy about how long he'll keep playing Iron Man, saying recently that he wants to quit before it becomes "embarrassing."
In some ways, it’s hard to envision the MCU without Captain America or Iron Man. But it’s clear that Marvel is already planning ahead, trying to make the most of the talent it has developed while also building a future that doesn’t overly rely on the MCU’s first generation of stars.
For one thing, Hollywood now treats visible signs of aging as a technical problem to be solved. Over the past decade, digital “makeup” designed to make older actors look young again has grown increasingly sophisticated. This is most apparent in showy effects set pieces like the one in Civil War that transformed the middle-aged Downey Jr. into a teenage Tony Stark, or the scene in Ant-Man that presented a much younger Michael Douglas. But digital makeup is also used in more subtle ways, to achieve an effect that is more akin to plastic surgery — making actors look like slightly more youthful versions of themselves. Expensive effects can’t counteract aging entirely, but they go a long way to mitigating it.
At some point, though, Marvel’s biggest stars are still going to move on from their roles. For Marvel, then, the trick is to build do what Fox never did with the X-films and build a franchise that isn’t dependent on a few above-the-title names. That’s a lot of what the studio’s recent and upcoming releases manage to accomplish.
The two Guardians of the Galaxy films have already established a quartet of new heroes and stars, with yet another affable 30-something named Chris in the lead role. Last fall’s Doctor Strange brought yet another cynical, selfish, wisecracking, extremely powerful middle-aged rich guy into the universe — a potential understudy for the position that Tony Stark now inhabits.
And now Spider-Man, of course, has been brought into the fold from rival studio Sony (although Sony still owns the rights to the character) in a deal that gives Marvel access to one of the most popular and well-known characters in comics. The appearance of Iron Man in Homecoming serves as a kind of passing of the torch. In some sense, Stark isn’t just teaching Peter Parker how to be a mature and responsible hero; he’s showing him how to anchor a billion-dollar franchise.
Plus, thanks to the complex and unusual contractual arrangements between Sony and Marvel, Spider-Man may have to hold down not just one franchise, but two. At just 21 years old, Holland, who is reportedly signed to play Spider-Man in six different films, has plenty of years left to play a superhero, should he want to continue.
But Marvel isn’t just queuing up replacements. The studio is also expanding the MCU with new characters like Black Panther and Captain Marvel, each of whom are set to get solo films — and, potentially, sub-franchises — of their own.
Meanwhile, MCU mastermind Kevin Feige has indicated that Marvel’s films will change direction after many of the current major plot threads are wrapped up in the fourth Avengers film. With the reality-bending Infinity Gauntlet, which has sometimes been used to overhaul Marvel’s print-comics universe, in the mix, don’t be surprised to see major characters die or change radically as Marvel's movie universe enters what its overseers refer to as Phase 4.
Marvel, in other words, is trying to avoid the problems that have sometimes plagued the X-franchise, which ultimately became too dependent on a handful of actors and their characters, and broke down when they weren’t around. Instead of focusing on a small number of popular characters and performers, Marvel is building a deep well of talent and story, one that can survive the retirement of any individual hero.
It’s a good business strategy, because it spreads out risk, reducing the studio’s dependency on any single performer. But it’s also a recipe for continued creative vitality, because it forces Marvel’s creative minds to pursue fresh stories, settings, and motivations. It simultaneously relies on formula while incorporating growth, change, and evolution into the equation. And in a business where the dominant strategy for tentpole productions amounts to, “Repeat what has already worked, but bigger,” that’s no small feat.
Indeed, competitors have already seemed to pick up on Marvel’s strategy: The big hope for Fox’s X-franchise at this point is to launch a side franchise built around the antics of Ryan Reynolds’s Deadpool.
Maybe someday Marvel’s universe will collapse under its own weight, as the producers attempt to juggle too many characters and too many nine-figure blockbusters at once. Maybe someday the universe will have to reset and reboot, as Marvel’s print comics have done so many times.
But so far the MCU strategy has worked remarkably well. Indeed, Marvel has come closer than any other studio to building the holy grail of blockbuster filmmaking: a popular, critically acclaimed, massively profitable franchise that can truly live forever.
The first half of 2017 was great for movies — but the second half of 2017 is poised to be a stunner.
There’s something for everyone coming up: hotly anticipated franchise entries (Star Wars: The Last Jedi, Justice League, Thor: Ragnarok, War for the Planet of the Apes); sequels both long-awaited (Blade Runner: 2049) and spiritual (The Only Living Boy in New York, Cloverfield Movie); romantic comedies (Home Again); musicals (The Greatest Showman); and a fresh Pixar movie (Coco).
There are new arrivals from a murderer’s row of great directors, including Paul Thomas Anderson, Kathryn Bigelow, Christopher Nolan, Darren Aronofsky, Steven Soderbergh, Steven Spielberg, Martin McDonagh, and many more. Intriguing thrillers, important documentaries, satire, and historical drama dot the schedule.
And some of the year’s most buzzed-about festival films — like Call Me by Your Name, Mudbound, and The Florida Project — are scheduled to arrive in theaters just in time for awards season.
Here are 50 movies you won’t want to miss between now and the end of the year, arranged by month and release date.
Get ready: It’s going to be a great second half of the year at the multiplex.
(Our review)
Release date: July 7
Why it matters: The buzzy Sundance film from versatile director David Lowery (Pete’s Dragon, Ain’t Them Bodies Saints) is artful, spooky, and thought-provoking. It also features an indelible scene of Rooney Mara eating pie, and Casey Affleck, fresh off his Best Actor nod at the Oscars, wearing a sheet with eyeholes.
(Our review)
Release date: July 7
Why it matters: Our new Spider-Man has arrived in the form of Tom Holland, and early positive reviews from critics at advance screenings indicate that good things are afoot for the franchise.
Related
(Our review)
Release date: July 14
Why it matters: It’s the cap to the best blockbuster trilogy of our time. And after early screenings, critics are positively raving.
Release date: July 21
Why it matters: A star-studded cast takes on an important piece of history, with Christopher Nolan (Inception, The Dark Knight) at the helm of what looks like a visually rich, emotionally resonant epic.
Release date: July 21
Why it matters: Writer-director Gillian Robespierre’s last project, Obvious Child, was an unexpected delight; her star from that project, Jenny Slate, also appears in this 1990s-set piece about a family in Manhattan.
Release date: August 4
Why it matters: Few films this year have been as hotly anticipated as this one from Kathryn Bigelow (The Hurt Locker, Zero Dark Thirty), who teamed up again with screenwriter Mark Boal for a film about three young men murdered during the 1967 riots in Detroit.
Release date: August 4
Why it matters: The directorial debut from screenwriter Taylor Sheridan (Sicario, Hell or High Water) made the rounds at major festivals this year to critical acclaim. Wind River stars Jeremy Renner and Elizabeth Olsen as two US Fish and Wildlife agents investigating an apparent murder in Wyoming.
Release date: August 4
Why it matters: Based on Stephen King’s massive, wildly popular series of novels, this movie stars Idris Elba and Matthew McConaughey in a horror-fantasy-action-adventure-Western epic.
Related
Release date: August 11
Why it matters: Directors (and brothers) Josh and Benny Safdie made a huge splash at Cannes with this crime thriller, which is full of chases and ’90s-inflected touches. It’s also a career-defining role for its star, Robert Pattinson.
Release date: August 11
Why it matters: The most darkly funny film to premiere at this year’s Sundance Film Festival stars Aubrey Plaza as a girl named Ingrid who moves across the country to try to get close to her Instagram idol, played by Elizabeth Olsen.
Release date: August 11
Why it matters: This documentary had inside, unfettered access to the Black Lives Matter movement as it sparked in Ferguson, Missouri, following the shooting of 18-year-old Michael Brown.
Release date: August 11
Why it matters: The latest from director Destin Daniel Cretton (Short Term 12) stars Brie Larson, Jennifer Lawrence, Woody Harrelson, Naomi Watts, and Max Greenfield in a drama about a dysfunctional family, based on Jeannette Walls’s best-selling memoir.
Release date: August 11
Why it matters: With a title based on a Simon & Garfunkel song, it sure sounds like The Only Living Boy in New York will have strong overtones of The Graduate (which turns 50 this year). The movie follows a recent college graduate who has his life upended by his father’s mistress (played by Kate Beckinsale).
Release date: August 18
Why it matters: Steven Soderbergh keeps threatening to retire from directing movies, but he hasn’t managed it yet. His latest, Logan Lucky, stars an absurdly stacked cast — Daniel Craig, Katherine Waterston, Adam Driver, Riley Keough, Channing Tatum, Sebastian Stan, Katie Holmes, Seth MacFarlane, Hilary Swank, and more — in a heist tale set during a NASCAR race in North Carolina.
Release date: August 18
Why it matters: There was a hologram of Jon Hamm (along with actual Jon Hamm) walking around the Sundance Film Festival earlier this year to promote Marjorie Prime, a sci-fi movie based on Jordan Harrison’s Pulitzer-nominated play about love and loss. In addition to Hamm, it stars the great Geena Davis.
Release date: August 25
Why it matters: Eliza Hittman’s indie film, which made a splash at Sundance earlier in the year, is about a lonely teenager on Brooklyn’s outer edge coming to grips with his own sexuality, as he flirts with an older man online while also starting a tentative relationship with a girl his age.
Release date: August 25
Why it matters: Adapted from a This American Life episode, Crown Heights — which stars Lakeith Stanfield (Atlanta, Get Out) and former Raiders cornerback Nnamdi Asomugha — is the true story of a young man wrongfully convicted of murder and his friend’s efforts to prove his innocence.
Release date: September 8
Why it matters: Another movie based on a Stephen King novel, It (which boasts a screenwriting credit from True Detective’s Cary Fukunaga) is intended to be the first of two films that will undoubtedly haunt your nightmares forever.
Related
Release date: September 8
Why it matters: Reese Witherspoon goes back to her romantic comedy roots for a movie about a 40-year-old woman who returns home to LA with her two young daughters and ends up forming a makeshift family with three aspiring filmmakers. Sweet home Los Angeles?
Release date: September 15
Why it matters: This innovative, damning documentary takes on the history of racial segregation in Baltimore through the unexpected lens of the city’s rats. It’s somehow both experimental and educational, and it’s been delighting and confounding audiences on the festival circuit this year.
Release date: September 15
Why it matters: Peter Nicks’s absolutely vital documentary follows the beleaguered police department of Oakland, California, as it tries to reform itself, and then discovers just how difficult that is.
Release date: September 22
Why it matters: The follow-up to the 2014 spy action-comedy promises to be just as snarky and self-aware as the first, with most of the same cast — Colin Firth, Mark Strong, Taron Egerton — and some new faces, too.
Related
Release date: September 22
Why it matters: Jake Gyllenhaal stars in the inspirational true story of Jeff Bauman, who lost both of his legs in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing but was still able to identify the suspects.
(Our review)
Release date: October 6
Why it matters: One of the buzziest films at this year’s Cannes Film Festival was a small, colorful movie about kids living in a cheap motel outside of Disney World. Director Sean Baker (Tangerine) turns this premise into a remarkable and moving look at the struggles of America’s poor.
Release date: October 6
Why it matters: Few films have been as anticipated as this one, which is set 30 years after the first film and stars Ryan Gosling as well as the original’s Harrison Ford. Denis Villeneuve (Arrival, Sicario) is at the helm.
Related
Release date: October 13
Why it matters: Nobody is totally sure what this movie is, except that it’s the latest from Darren Aronofsky and stars Jennifer Lawrence, Michelle Pfeiffer, Javier Bardem, Kristin Wiig, Ed Harris, and Domhnall Gleeson. Aronofsky fans are excited to see the director returning to the psychological horror mode he exhibited in films like Black Swan and Requiem for a Dream.
Release date: October 13
Why it matters: Chadwick Boseman plays future Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall in his early days, when he raised hell as an NAACP attorney. The film retells one of Marshall’s biggest cases: defending a black chauffeur accused by his white employer of sexual assault and attempted murder.
Release date: October 13
Why it matters: It’s an action movie starring Jackie Chan — but in a different mode — as a father who seeks revenge when his daughter is killed in an act of terrorism. Pierce Brosnan also stars.
(Our review)
Release date: October 20
Why it matters: Todd Haynes (Carol) premiered his lyrical, lovely children’s film at Cannes to a strong response. The story about two deaf children decades apart boasts terrific acting from its leads and a moving conclusion.
Release date: October 20
Why it matters: It’s a crime drama about a mysterious murder and stars Michael Fassbender, but it’s also directed by Tomas Alfredson, best known for the chilly, beguiling 2008 film Let the Right One In.
Release date: October 27
Why it matters: This satirical drama about a contemporary art curator whose best intentions go a bit awry left audiences laughing at Cannes, where it eventually won the coveted Palme d’Or.
Release date: October 27
Why it matters: Formerly titled God Particle — and then mysteriously removed from Paramount’s release schedule — the movie was eventually reinstated on the calendar  and revealed to be the third entry in the loosely connected Cloverfield universe, following last year’s 10 Cloverfield Lane. So maybe we’ll get more insight into what’s going on in J.J. Abrams’s post-apocalyptic world — though this installment is set in space.
Release date: November 3
Why it matters: George Clooney is not always a great director, but he’s always an interesting one; in Suburbicon, he directs Matt Damon, Oscar Isaac, and Julianne Moore in a story about a home invasion that disrupts a small town.
(Our review)
Release date: November 3
Why it matters: This oddly titled movie is a wild inversion of the Greek myth to which it alludes from Yorgos Lanthimos (The Lobster), starring Colin Farrell and Nicole Kidman as a well-off suburban couple whose lives are upended by a teenager.
Release date: November 3
Why it matters: The Thor movies are generally respected, even by people who aren’t really into comic book movies, for their sense of humor. Pairing this one with director Taika Waititi (Hunt for the Wilderpeople, What We Do in the Shadows) was a stroke of genius on Marvel’s part.
Release date: November 10
Why it matters: Director Kenneth Branagh takes on Agatha Christie’s murder mystery with a killer cast in what looks like a very stylish film.
Release date: November 10
Why it matters: Writer-director Martin McDonagh (In Bruges) has concocted what looks like a mad, dark comedy, with a cast led by the always stellar Frances McDormand (Fargo). The release of the incredible trailer briefly set the film world on fire.
Release date: November 17
Why it matters: It’s hard to know what to expect from this movie, given that its predecessor is the dismal Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice. On the other hand, Wonder Woman — whose main character is also a member of the Justice League — far exceeded expectations. So who knows? Justice League is certainly the year’s most high-profile wild card.
Release date: November 17
Why it matters: The latest from the versatile Richard Linklater is slated to open the New York Film Festival, a prestigious spot usually reserved for artfully made crowd pleasers. (Recent years have opened with Gone Girl and Life of Pi.) This one is a road movie about three Vietnam vets (Steve Carell, Bryan Cranston, and Laurence Fishburne) who travel to bury one man’s only child, killed during the early days of the invasion in Iraq.
Release date: November 22
Why it matters: It’s a Pixar movie, which means hopes are already high — but it’s also been described as a “love letter to Mexico,” with a voice cast full of Hispanic and Latinx actors. It’s likely to dominate the box office on Thanksgiving weekend.
Release date: November 22
Why it matters: The latest from Joe Wright (Atonement) stars Gary Oldman as the statesman Winston Churchill, who is struggling with the decision to either negotiate a peace treaty with the Nazis or stand for his country’s ideals.
Release date: November 24
Why it matters: This film was the unmitigated critical favorite at Sundance and will certainly make a run at Best Picture. From director Luca Guadagnino, it’s an intimate, lush romance set in the Italian Riviera in 1983 that features, by all accounts, a star-making turn for Armie Hammer.
Release date: December 8
Why it matters: Horror/fantasy master Guillermo del Toro (Pan’s Labyrinth, Crimson Peak) tells a Cold War-era story of two women in 1963 (played by Sally Hawkins and Octavia Spencer) who stumble across a secret classified experiment.
Release date: December 15
Why it matters: Obviously, any Star Wars film will be one of the year’s most anticipated. But not only is this one directed by the versatile Rian Johnson (Brick, Looper), but it’s the last of the films to include Carrie Fisher; the star was slated to appear in the next installment as well, but after her unexpected passing in December 2016, the decision was made to not bring her back virtually (using CGI) for that installment. So this, sadly, is our last glimpse of Leia.
Release date: December 22
Why it matters: Despite early controversy about the movie’s historical accuracy, the latest from Steven Spielberg still looks like a barnburner, taking on the story of the Pentagon Papers with a truly all-star cast led by Tom Hanks, Meryl Streep, Alison Brie, and Carrie Coon.
Release date: December 22
Why it matters: Alexander Payne (Nebraska, Sideways, About Schmidt) makes films about families and aging with an off-kilter sense of humor, and this one — a satirical story about a man who decides to shrink himself — promises to be no exception.
Release date: December 25
Why it matters: Hugh Jackman leads a cast including Zac Efron, Michelle Williams, Rebecca Ferguson, and Zendaya in a musical(!) about the birth of show business, inspired by P.T. Barnum.
Release date: December 25
Why it matters: Daniel Day-Lewis and writer-director Paul Thomas Anderson haven’t teamed up since 2007’s explosive, expansive There Will Be Blood. This one is set in the world of 1950s fashion, and the fact that it’s slated to release on Christmas Day is a surefire sign it’s making a run at the Best Picture title at the Oscars, and probably a Best Actor nod, too — especially since Day-Lewis recently announced his retirement from acting.
(Our review)
Release date: TBD (Netflix)
Why it matters: At Cannes, The Meyerowitz Stories won praise for its terrific cast — especially Adam Sandler and Emma Thompson, who along with Dustin Hoffman, Ben Stiller, and Elizabeth Marvel bring writer-director Noah Baumbach’s story of a dysfunctional but affectionate family to life.
Release date: TBD (Netflix)
Why it matters: One of the most talked-about films at Sundance was Dee Rees’s indie drama Mudbound, about two men who return from World War II to rural Mississippi and struggle with the adjustment to civilian life and with the racism around them. It’s also got a great cast, including Garrett Hedlund, Mary J. Blige, Carey Mulligan, and Jason Mitchell.
Spider-Man has found his home sweet home.
Spider-Man: Homecoming opened with an estimated $117 million at the domestic box office this weekend. It’s a confidence boost for a film studio that has struggled to achieve success in bringing the legendary Marvel character to the big screen.
After Sony’s Tobey Maguire-starring Spider-Man films fizzled out, ending with 2007’s Spider-Man 3, the studio wasted little time in rebooting them. The Amazing Spider-Man, starring Andrew Garfield, launched in 2012; it opened to $62 million domestically, going on to gross $262 domestically and nearly $758 million worldwide.
Its sequel, 2014’s The Amazing Spider-Man 2, opened to $91.6 million domestically, going on to gross $202.8 million domestically and nearly $709 million worldwide. But even though The Amazing Spider-Man 2 had a bigger opening weekend than its predecessor, Sony considered the film a disappointment because of its lower worldwide total. Sequels are generally expected to make more money than the original.
That disappointment not only caused Sony to cancel its plans for an Amazing Spider-Man 3, but to seek out a new actor to play the web-slinger. The studio also struck a landmark deal with Marvel Studios that would allow Spider-Man to appear in a Marvel film, even though Sony owns the film rights to the character. Spider-Man: Homecoming — a co-production between Sony and Marvel, starring Tom Holland as Spidey — is the result. And Homecoming’s $117 million opening weekend seems to indicate that partnering with Marvel and casting Holland were both excellent decisions on Sony’s part, decisions that might finally get Spider-Man’s cinematic legacy back on track.
Now that Spider-Man: Homecoming has been in theaters a few days, it's time to answer that perpetual question: Which Marvel Studios movie is best?
Alex Abad-Santos and Todd VanDerWerff each assessed all 16 films in the studio's roster, then tallied their results to arrive at this 100 percent definitive ranking. If you disagree, you obviously have a different definition of the word "definitive" than they do. But that's okay. We can all share this planet together.
Here's every Marvel movie, ranked from worst to best.
Iron Man 2 suffers greatly from having to serve too many masters. It wants to be another fun-loving Iron Man (Robert Downey Jr.) tale, but it's also working diligently to set up the larger Marvel Cinematic Universe.
This was Marvel's first attempt at a film that would serve as a prelude to even bigger things to come farther down the road, and it was clear the studio hadn't quite figured out what it was doing in that regard. It's the only outright bad movie Marvel Studios has made. Mickey Rourke is weirdly fun as Whiplash, though.
Best moment: Whiplash attacks Tony Stark on a racetrack. There aren't a lot of great sequences in this film, but this one has a savagery to it that's worth seeing.
The Incredible Hulk is openly boring. Bruce Banner (Edward Norton) spends most of its run time trying to make sure his heart rate doesn't surpass a certain threshold. In many scenes, Norton simply looks blankly at a number that's increasing or decreasing. It's like Speed, but the opposite.
It doesn't make for compelling cinema, and while the movie does feature lots of tanks and smashing, it isn't even a good action film. It says a lot that Marvel hasn't made another Hulk-centric movie since this one.
Best moment: In the chase scene through Brazil, Banner's cover is blown, and government special ops pursue him through a winding, maze-like town where the laws of gravity seemingly don't apply.
Marvel's "phase two" started off shakily, as the studio tried to follow up The Avengers with new solo films for Iron Man and Thor. Between the two, Thor: The Dark World suffers most for feeling like a completely generic, fill-in-the-blank take on a Marvel movie. It's largely devoid of personality, and its biggest moment is quickly undone by the end of the film.
Still, it's a chance to watch Tom Hiddleston play the trickster Loki, which is always worth seeing. For that alone, it escapes the absolute lowest reaches of this list.
Best moment: Loki and Thor head into another world on a desperate suicide mission. It's the one time the film feels like its characters actually want something.
Thor marked a change of pace for Marvel, which had found success (at the time) by leaning into the story of Tony Stark and his irreverent worldview. Thor is more staid, with director Kenneth Branagh loading up on majestic monologues and poetic storytelling.
The movie is also a departure from Iron Man in that it's more about the villain, Loki. It's Marvel's first movie where the villain boasts the charisma that characters like Magneto and the Joker have. Sure, Thor's redemption story is fun, and it's cool to see his friends help him out. But, really, this movie lives because of Loki's sinister spirit.
Best moment: Thor smashes the Bifröst to bits to save a planet full of frost giants. He's doing an incredibly noble thing, but he's also destroying the only way for him to return to the love of his life.
This one prompted the most dissension in our rankings, with Todd placing it relatively high and Alex placing it near the bottom.
There are good reasons for both arguments. The middle section of this movie — which is basically a buddy comedy about Tony Stark and a little kid — is as loose and freewheeling as anything Marvel has made. But the actual story is horribly bland, with a third act that struggles to tie everything together. (Come to think of it, lots of Marvel movies are saddled with undistinguished endings.)
Still, there's a lot of charm here, and Downey is as good as he's been playing this character, his way with a wisecrack carrying even the dourest of scenes.
Best moment: This is cheating, but anytime Tony and the kid are onscreen together is absolute gold.
Though Marvel fans' enthusiasm has been muted for this one (and its opening-weekend box office earnings were a bit tepid), director Peyton Reed's romp through worlds both human- and insect-size proves to be a heck of a lot of fun. It doesn't hurt that funnyman Paul Rudd plays the lead, or that the film ends with its best sequence, a big superhero battle that takes place entirely inside a little girl's bedroom.
Ant-Man underscores just how much Marvel has struggled with its women characters (with its female lead, played by Evangeline Lilly, desperately wanting to join the action and being stopped by men at every turn), and its villain is one of the worst in the Marvel canon, which is saying something. But at its best, Ant-Man is a rollicking good time.
Best moment: That final fight is everything you could hope for from a movie where big things get small and small things get big.
Doctor Strange nabs this spot for two reasons.
The first is that its opening fight scene is as inventive and as beautiful as anything Marvel has ever created. If Doctor Strange’s agile visual effects are the future of Marvel, then we can all kiss the idea of "superhero fatigue" goodbye.
The second is Tilda Swinton’s performance as the Ancient One. Her character is, no doubt, controversial. But Swinton didn’t cast herself, nor did she make any executive decisions about how writers reworked the original comic book character for the film. What she was responsible for — the joy and wonderment that pulsates through her portrayal — she overdelivered on, again and again.
Best moment: The gravity-defying, physics-breaking first fight, where you have no idea what you’ve signed up for but are sure glad you did.
How much can mood carry a movie? The actual story of Captain America lurches a bit from set piece to set piece, and its third act — like so many of Marvel's third acts — is a mess.
But that's not why you watch Captain America. You watch it because the movie so perfectly captures its World War II milieu, because it's so different from any other superhero movie out there. You watch it because Chris Evans is as good as any actor since Christopher Reeve at capturing simple goodness and purity of spirit. And finally, you watch it because Hayley Atwell's Peggy Carter makes a very good case for being the best female character in the Marvel Cinematic Universe so far, and she and Evans have terrific chemistry.
Best moment: Steve Rogers goes on tour to promote war bonds as Captain America, in a sequence that's everything this movie does well — particularly the '40s period trappings — in a nutshell.
Guardians was a cinematic heat check for Marvel. Could the studio take a group of relatively obscure, space-traveling superheroes and make a) an enjoyable movie, and b) a hugely successful one at that?
It could, and it did. Propped up by a winsome performance from Chris Pratt, the movie was a breath of fresh air in a sour summer blockbuster season. Marvel vaulted viewers into the cosmos, far away from the world of Tony Stark, the Avengers, and humankind, to a place where talking trees, humanoid raccoons, and master assassins are the norm.
Best moment: The Nova Corps try, in vain, to stop the Dark Aster and save the day.
Homecoming’s placement on this list was a bit controversial. I (Alex) was ready to rank it as high as third — as good as the original Iron Man — but Todd had it pegged a bit lower, hovering somewhere around the level of Ant-Man (which came in 9th prior to this ranking).
Todd’s main gripe with Homecoming was its Iron Man storyline, which he felt was grafted on and detracted from the main story of Peter Parker’s superpowered coming-of-age tale.
The Iron Man bits weren’t necessarily my favorites, but I didn’t dislike them as much as Todd did. I also think the high school/teen movie aspect of Homecoming, as well as Tom Holland’s performance as Peter Parker, were fantastic enough to overlook some of the film’s weaker moments.
We ended up splitting the difference.
Best moment: The absolute best moment of the film is a giant spoiler, but the scene of Spidey buried under the rubble is as good a superhero moment as you’ll find in the Marvel universe.
Avengers: Age of Ultron was never going to have the same crackle as its predecessor. The original just set expectations too high.
What Age of Ultron does better than its older sibling is confidently stick to and distill a worldview. Humans are beautiful, damaged, and ultimately temporary creatures, the film makes known. And the film's focus on the Scarlet Witch (Elizabeth Olsen) and Hawkeye (Jeremy Renner) conveys this message beautifully.
Best moment: The final battle scene featuring the Avengers working in unison to protect the country of Sokovia.
Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 crackles with so much vibrant color, wild energy, and fizzy humor that there’s no mistaking it for one of its grimmer Marvel cousins. At times the space opera sequel gets a little too big, a little too complicated for its own good — some of the plots are somewhat overextended and extraneous. But when Guardians 2 hits its highs, it taps into a certain smile-inducing joy that no other Marvel movie can touch.
Best moment: Any time Yondu and Star-Lord share a scene.
Does every aspect of Captain America: Civil War make sense? If you poke at it long enough, not really. The film's central storyline doesn't entirely hang together, and its political metaphor isn't as potent as that of its predecessor, Captain America: The Winter Soldier.
But it's also an exciting new direction for Marvel, a film where the climax isn't some gigantic battle against aliens but, instead, an interpersonal conflict between two superheroes who've come to be very, very angry with each other. It packs in tons of characters yet somehow never feels overstuffed, and in its finest moments, it expertly captures the joy and sheer exhilaration of superhero comics.
Best moment: Cap versus Iron Man turns into an all-out brawl at an airport, complete with a visit from Spider-Man.
In some ways, Iron Man earns lots of points for just how different it was when it came out in 2008. It wasn't centered on a character everybody already knew — as was the case with movies about Batman, Superman, and Spider-Man. It was an opening gambit in building a massive franchise, centered on more than just this one character. And it brimmed with snarky brilliance, all thanks to Downey's sarcastic performance as the man in the metal suit.
But Iron Man also possesses a surprising amount of storytelling ingenuity. It's about a man with a literal broken heart who must figure out how to make it whole again, and who is tricked into becoming a better person in the process. This is smart, wickedly fun popcorn filmmaking.
Best moment: This movie is full of them, but there may be none as great as Tony's closing press conference.
The Winter Soldier is a strange creature in Marvel's lineup. It's both a deeply personal film and one built around a huge tectonic shift for the Marvel universe. And the film does both so well.
The chemistry between Steve Rogers and Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson) carries the story. Steve, a good company man, realizes the men he's been saying "yes" to are Hydra double agents. For Black Widow, who was taught to never let anyone get close to her, the one thing she trusted is sullied and corrupted.
The two have to find a place where they can start over. Throw in the return of Rogers's childhood friend Bucky Barnes (Sebastian Stan) as an unstoppable killing machine, and you've got yourself arguably the best movie Marvel has ever made.
Best moment: Captain America gets stuck in a stopped elevator full of double agents, resulting in a thrilling close-quarters action sequence.
In terms of thematic ambition, both the sequel to this film and The Winter Soldier top it. In terms of importance to Marvel's business strategy, Iron Man stands above it as well. But there is perhaps no movie that perfectly captures everything Marvel does well (when it's doing things well) as The Avengers.
Just the idea of sandwiching all of Marvel's biggest heroes (plus newly introduced Hawkeye) into one film should have been improbable madness, but in the hands of director and writer Joss Whedon, it somehow paid off. Big, pulpy, and fun, this is the movie all comic book films aspire to be now — for better or worse.
Best moment: This is the rare Marvel movie in which the final fight sequence is really worth it. The whole third act is terrific fun.
No one makes a hit like Katy Perry. Since the release of 2008’s One of the Boys, the bubblegum-pink pop star has been bathed in the flattering magic-hour glow of public approval, basted every hour upon the hour with the glittering light of a beloved icon. With every album, she’s handed over another No. 1 banger (“I Kissed a Girl,” “Firework,” “Roar,” et al.), and her loyal subjects have blessed her for it. She became the first woman (and second artist ever) to snag five No. 1 hits on a single album, 2010’s Teenage Dream. Her concerts are always sold out, and for almost all of her career, her critical reception has been nearly as welcoming as her public one.
But somewhere between 2013’s Prism and the early-June release of Witness, the bottom dropped out of the bucket of Katy Perry adoration. It may be a simple matter of overexposure, or it may be something more nuanced, but whatever it is, the conversation around Witness has been decidedly lacking in excitement and heavy with criticism.
At the Washington Post, Chris Richards said of Witness, “Perry sounds like she’s trapped in a purgatory, pantomiming progress, giving an endless pep talk to her own reflection.” Rolling Stone wrote that the album causes her to blend in with everyone else on the radio. As Lindsay Zoladz wrote for the Ringer, “Perry has been faltering so publicly that she’s become an object of morbid fascination.”
No doubt about it, the tide seems to have turned on Perry in 2017, and the tone of the backlash surrounding her suggests why: We want our pop stars to be confident, distinctive, and powerful, not someone soul-searching on an arena tour. In 2017, Katy Perry no longer seems like a bubblegum-pop queen. She seems lost.
Katy Perry looks different in 2017. She has a drastic short blonde hairstyle that gives her an androgynous look, and she’s no longer surrounded by the glowing aura of critical praise. The pinnacle of this truth arrived in the wake of her May 20 Saturday Night Live appearance, where she performed two singles from her newest album: the Migos collaboration “Bon Appetit” and the diss track “Swish Swish,” featuring Nicki Minaj.
“What the hell happened to Katy Perry?” Keith Murphy wrote for BET, calling the performance “cringe-worthy” and arguing that Perry’s blatant co-opting of black culture made it “hard to believe you were witnessing the same woman whose brazenly feel-good music once compelled a bar filled with Black folks to sing along to her anthemic fist pump of a hit ‘Roar.’”
Murphy isn’t alone in his distaste for Perry’s most recent incarnation. The critical response to Witness has been overwhelmingly negative; on the review aggregator Metacritic, the album has a paltry 52/100 rating. Every single Perry has released from Witness has been met with hesitation and a raised eyebrow by critics and casual fans alike.
Written by pop music giants Max Martin, Ali Payami, and Sia Furler, the album’s first single, “Chained to the Rhythm,” is a dancehall-disco hybrid that debuted at No. 4 on the Billboard Hot 100. But it quickly fell from the chart. The second single, “Bon Appetit,” was met with immediate criticism: Chris Willman at Variety called it “bubble-smut” and said it was so likely to make listeners gag, it “should come with its own Heimlich maneuver, just in case.” Anna Gaca at Spin called it an “infuriating kitsch concoction,” and Jon Caramanica at the New York Times said it was Perry “in her least convincing mode — dance-floor diva.”
The album’s most recent single, “Swish Swish,” was almost completely ignored critically while headlines focused on the track’s reference to the ongoing feud between Perry and Taylor Swift. The feud, it seems, is the only thing interesting enough to maintain public interest in this album, which, more than any ranking system, is evidence that the public is no longer on Perry’s team. This became increasingly evident when Swift returned her catalog to streaming services on the exact same day as Perry’s album release, diverting attention away from her work and toward their feud, purposely or not.
Related
None of these songs, to be clear, are awful. “Chained to the Rhythm” is a bit slower than Perry’s more massive hits like “Roar” and “Teenage Dream,” but it’s still a banger that could slot in on any club playlist and could have gotten massive radio play. Even the weakest of the three singles, “Bon Appetit,” is no more garish or loaded with sexual innuendos than older hits like “Peacock” or “California Gurls.”
But even in the midst of all this critical backlash, the album is performing fairly well. “Swish Swish” is still on the Billboard Hot 100, though not in the Top 40, and Witness debuted at No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 200 with 180,000 album units. That gives Perry her third No. 1 album and the biggest debut from a female artist since Lady Gaga’s Joanne on November 12, 2016. Critical drubbing or no, star power still sells albums, and Katy Perry has plenty of it.
But there’s more at work here than a shifting critical consensus. The larger cultural exhaustion over Katy Perry seems to be less about her music and more about how she’s chosen to present herself and the album in 2017.
At the 2017 Grammys, Perry said that her fifth album was “definitely a new era for me,” characterizing its arrival as “an era of purposeful pop.”
This wasn’t a single statement made on a red carpet; it was the beginning of a campaign. The entire promotional agenda around the album was centered on its place in the political conversation. For 96 hours, Perry broadcast herself live in her apartment on YouTube, performing an essentially nonstop filibuster sprinkled with phrases like “safe space,” “rebirth,” and “unity and communication.”
“I feel very empowered,” she says in a profile titled, pointedly, “Katy Perry Woke Up. She Wants To Tell You All About It” in the New York Times. “[I feel] extremely liberated, liberated from the conditioning of the way I used to think, spiritually liberated, politically liberated, sexually liberated, liberated from things that don’t serve me.”
The publicity around Witness positioned it as a political album in an era when everything is politicized, and suggested a kind of radicalism that’s frankly missing on the album. This disconnect between Perry’s perception of her career and album — or at least how she chose to hype them — and those of fans and critics seems to be at the root of the Perry backlash. Katy Perry proclaimed herself a warrior for political change and purposeful social action, but then didn’t deliver on that.
There were hints of that broken promise before Witness even came out, going back to the February release of “Chained to the Rhythm,” which Perry characterized as the outgrowth of her dismay over the 2016 presidential election.
“This was after the election and I was kind of depressed and, you know, I definitely didn't want to write a club banger,” Perry said. “The more you dive into it, it has a different subtext."
That statement was an open invitation to read into that subtext, and “Chained to the Rhythm” did not live up to the scrutiny. In a piece titled “Katy Perry’s Failed Journey to Wokeness” for Complex, Maria Sherman argues that Perry’s fluffy song combined with her promise that it is, in fact, more than that, makes the whole song feel disingenuous. “At no point does she direct her frustrations anywhere specifically — there’s nothing concrete in the language,” Sherman writes. “To create purposeful music, you need to state a purpose.”
Perry’s disingenuousness extends into even murkier territory. Throughout her career, Perry has ignored the line between appreciation and appropriation consistently enough to get her dubbed the “Queen of Cultural Appropriation” by the Root back in 2014. She wore dreadlocks in the video for “This is How We Do,” she did a geisha performance to “Unconditionally,” and she was criticized for her depictions of Egyptian culture in “Dark Horse” — all of which came roaring back into the conversation around her in the midst of the “purposeful music” campaign for Witness.
Cultural appropriation isn’t a new fad in pop music. Madonna, who has undergone far more reinventions than Perry and survived, has been culturally appropriating her entire career. So has Gwen Stefani, and dozens more. But in the context of Perry’s “purposeful music” statement, it feels even more galling, and harder to ignore. In characterizing herself and her album as political agents for change, Perry has opened herself up to more scrutiny, which she’s struggled to live up to.
In the publicity for Witness, she’s tried to confront these criticisms of herself. On the latest episode of civil rights activist DeRay Mckesson’s podcast Pod Save the People, Perry apologized for her appropriative behavior throughout her career, and claimed oblivion. “I didn't know that I did it wrong until I heard people saying I did it wrong,” she said.
Somewhere along the way, she changed her tune from effortless oblivion to conscious revolutionary, changed her Twitter bio to “activist,” and suddenly seemed to be begging to be taken seriously, setting the stage for Witness’s difficult entry into the world. A lack of awareness is passable when you’re trying to create bubblegum anthemic pop, but when you’re trying to create “purposeful pop,” it just doesn’t fit.
Encapsulating all of this is the larger problem that Perry’s songs about feuds between billionaires and watered-down social statements squished next to praises of cunnilingus just don’t feel relevant to the realm of popular music right now. They aren’t personal enough or honest enough to become emotional tsunamis like Lorde’s Melodrama (which supplanted Witness at No. 1 on the Billboard albums chart) or Frank Ocean’s Blonde. They aren’t political enough to raise consciousness like Kendrick Lamar’s DAMN. Instead of functioning as a “defining era,” Witness reveals confusion on Perry’s part about what exactly she’s trying to do.
Perhaps if Witness had been all bubblegum pop and catchy bangers, or if Perry had slipped political and social comments into her songs without hanging her marketing campaign on them, both the album and Perry herself may have come out looking better. It might have made her seem outdated or out of touch, but at least she wouldn’t seem so lost.
Katy Perry hasn’t left the spotlight almost since her debut. Even though it’s been four years since her last album, Perry didn’t take much of a break. The Prismatic World Tour didn’t end until October 2015. In the middle of that, Perry performed at the Super Bowl, turning dumb sharks and corny, ridiculous props into one of the most memorable halftime shows of all time. She released a single for the 2016 Olympics, “Rise,” a track Jason Lipshutz at Billboard called a “stopgap single ... undercooked as a radio song and a motivational tool.” She declared her support of Hillary Clinton for president way back in June 2014, offering to write a campaign theme song. Most of 2016 she spent on the campaign trail.
There’s a theory that pop stars’ popularity works in cycles: In order to be cherished on the scale of the biggest stars, a pop star needs to be missed by her fans. We’ve seen this most recently with Taylor Swift’s vow to disappear for a bit before her next album. It’s a well-known and studied publicity phenomenon that any famous woman (the trend doesn’t really apply to men) who spends too long in the spotlight will have the public turn on her at some point.
Related
Being missed does wonders for an artist, and Katy Perry hasn’t given the culture a chance to miss her. A fan base more excited for the long-awaited return of Katy Perry probably would have received Witness better. That’s not to say it’s a great album, but neither was Prism, which was also criticized heavily (Metacritic: 61/100). Prism, though, had two No. 1 singles, “Dark Horse” and “Roar,” and sold 100,000 more copies in its first week than Witness.
But while Perry’s cultural omnipresence might be part of the reason this album is underperforming by Perry’s historic standards, it doesn’t by any means mean that she’s doomed. Ultimately, critical perception doesn’t matter at all to Katy Perry, who, as one of the world’s biggest pop stars, can tour and make a gazillion dollars regardless of how people feel about her new album. As a point of comparison, Lady Gaga’s Artpop — which was met with fatigue and criticized harshly in retrospect — still toured for an estimated gross of $83 million.
Both Gaga and Perry are right on the heels of a reinvention album. Following her country-inspired Joanne, Gaga will have to pick a direction for her next album, just as Perry will have to decide whether to stay “purposeful” or retreat back to bubblegum when the time comes to follow up Witness. Ironically, this album, as the Ringer’s Zoladz wrote, might be what transforms Katy Perry into the dark horse she’s always seen herself as, positioning her for a comeback of sorts.
Maybe it’s overexposure that’s induced the Katy Perry fatigue, maybe it’s the veil of sincerity she’s brought to her music and persona, or maybe it’s just that America doesn’t want her songs right now. But Perry and her album aren’t flopping in terms beyond critical perspective and public fatigue. Witness is still among Billboard’s Top 40 albums, Perry’s still pulling in massive sales certifications and plotting a nearly year-long world tour, and she recently signed a $25 million contract to be a judge on the reincarnated American Idol. Katy Perry likely isn’t going anywhere anytime soon. Put out enough bangers and America can forgive all sins.
Like many celebrities who suffer a career misstep, Perry will probably return to public favor in due time — she’s still too much of a cultural force not to. She promises as much on “Swish Swish” saying, “Imma stick around / for more than a minute / get used to it.”
Will, the new TNT drama about Shakespeare’s life from frequent Baz Luhrmann collaborator Craig Pearce, badly wants to be punk-rock. It wants to make Shakespeare and his plays feel edgy and modern and dangerous and sexy. It wants to make its audience grasp the urgency of the poetry and feel how revolutionary the plays were in the 15th century. It fails.
Instead, Will manages to recreate the exact atmosphere of a seventh-grade English classroom where the earnest young English teacher turns a chair around backwards, sits, says, “How crazy is it that the guy who, if you think about it, invented hip-hop lived 400 years ago?!” and then starts rapping the opening prologue to Romeo and Juliet.
Rating
In the first four episodes of Will — all that TNT has made available to critics — Will Shakespeare (Laurie Davidson), a young husband, father, aspiring poet, and secret Catholic (there’s some historical evidence backing that one up, although nothing conclusive), makes his way to London to become a great playwright.
Despite the jeers from fellow poets and theater managers who inform him that he will never amount to anything, Will manages to collaborate with one poet on Edward III and scrape together Two Gentlemen of Verona and the beginning of Henry VI, Part I on his own, all the while noodling around on ideas for Romeo and Juliet in his spare time and gazing longingly at pretty blonde Alice Burbage (Olivia DeJonge, and yes, the character is related to Richard Burbage; enjoy yourself, Shakespeare nerds).
Related
In the background, Richard Topcliffe tortures suspected Catholics in graphic detail, and a sad, abused peasant boy secretly cuts himself while hiding under the bed of his prostitute sister as she turns her tricks.
The whole thing is set against a Technicolor-hued and artfully anachronistic Elizabethan London. The edgy young theater folk wear leather waistcoats and have safety-pin piercings; the fashionable well-to-do wear slashes of pink eye shadow across their faces and gel their hair into elaborate pompadours. At the end of every episode, the elated theater company — fresh off of a successful new play from Will Shakespeare — bursts into a 20th-century song and dances off into the night.
As a creative move, anachronistic costuming and music stopped being edgy with 2001’s one-two punch of Moulin Rouge and A Knight’s Tale. Reign skillfully adapted them into signifiers of trashy kitsch in 2013. It’s 2017 now, and the days of anyone being shocked by the sight of William Shakespeare in leather pants are long over — but Will presents this sight with the smug expectation that viewers will be shocked, nay, outraged by the spectacle.
Smugness is one of Will’s defining attitudes. The show is smug about its historical knowledge. (Yes, Will, I too have read that there are multiple hands writing in the manuscript of Edward III.) It is smug about its violence. (Yes, that shot of a man being disemboweled is very graphic!) It is smug about its sex scenes. (Yes, you certainly are showing me a scene of a gay orgy right now!) It throws shot after shot at its audience with a deep certainty that it is being shocking and provocative, but it never finds an aesthetic reason for what it’s doing beyond a desire to be shocking and provocative. As a result, it succeeds only in being boring.
If Will has a bright spot, it’s in Jamie Campbell Bower’s Marlowe. Bower, the only member of the cast who seems to find the world he’s living in funny, slinks across the screen like a 16th-century David Bowie who is also a spy, murmuring sulkily about “that bitch, the Muse.” When he looks at young Shakespeare, a journeyman poet with the potential for greatness, flashes of jealousy and condescension and affection and lust flicker across his face all at once. It’s as psychologically complex as Will gets, and it’s lovely.
But this show isn’t called Kit, even though Kit Marlowe — atheist, spy, and murdered poet — has been crying out for a decent biopic for years. It’s called Will, and its focus lies in its shallow, dull, and unconvincing portrait of Shakespeare. What a waste.
Will premieres on Monday, July 10, at 9 pm ET/PT on TNT.
One of the most common ways to talk about Twin Peaks’ influence on television is to discuss how it made possible the genre I call “the mystery show.”
A mystery show isn’t about solving a mystery, not really. Yes, it invites the audience to play along at home and try to fill in the blanks surrounding “Who killed Laura Palmer?” or “What’s up with the alien conspiracy hidden in the FBI’s X-Files?” or “What is the Island?” But at its center is the idea that mystery only begets more mystery. Once you answer one question, dozens more spring up. The mystery show is about the contemplation of mystery and the idea that the deeper you go into any question, the more likely it is that you will open up a mineshaft into the darkness of the truly unknowable.
This aversion to providing once-and-for-all answers has not always sat well with the American viewing public. ABC forced David Lynch and Mark Frost to reveal the identity of Laura Palmer’s killer long before they wanted to on Twin Peaks’ first go-around, and just the fact that something like Lost didn’t conclude with the showrunners sitting down to tell America everything (opting instead to conclude with a bunch of oblique half-answers) incensed a lot of the show’s fans.
But I think looking for answers is almost always the wrong approach to the mystery show, because the answers you seek are going to be either unsatisfying or unnerving. So it goes with Showtime’s revival of Twin Peaks. The deeper we get into any sort of “answer” regarding what’s going on, the more unsettling the whole prospect becomes.
I’ve always thought of Twin Peaks as capturing a very specific sort of atmosphere, one that involves being all alone in some unfamiliar place, outdoors, in the middle of the night. You think you know what’s around the next bend, but you can’t be sure.
In almost every case, you do know. You round that bend, and there’s home, or your campsite, or a friendly face. But on Twin Peaks, you might round that bend and see nothing at all.
And we humans, as a rule, don’t really love to contemplate that void.
I’m put in mind of that void because “Part 9” is an episode all about what happens when you go seeking answers you might not want to find.
For instance: Principal Bill Hastings (the Buckhorn, South Dakota, resident arrested for murder way back in the two-part premiere) finally offers an explanation — of sorts — for why the headless body of Maj. Garland Briggs showed up with the head of a dead woman named Ruth and plenty of evidence tying Hastings to the crime.
Hastings and Ruth were really into the idea of extra-dimensional travel to a place they called “The Zone,” but which seems to be our very familiar Red Room/Black Lodge. (You can read all about their adventures on this website Showtime put together.) They finally made the trip into the Lodge one evening, thanks to some numbers Ruth provided; there, they made contact with Briggs, who promptly floated into the sky and lost his head. Ruth died, and the tableau Buckhorn police found in Ruth’s apartment — her head and Briggs’s body — was the result.
So, sure, that’s an explanation. You can more or less pin a timeline to it, and you could maybe even make a little diorama of it if you wanted to (though maybe don’t do that). It’s another way for the series to get around the death of a major player from the original series — Don S. Davis, who played Major Briggs — but it’s also a decidedly unsettling story. Indeed, it’s not an explanation that explains anything, because all it does is tell you what happened, while leaving the why completely unexpressed. And the further you go into trying to understand that why, the less you might like what you find.
Consider that Twin Peaks, as a whole, suggests that human adventures are a mere façade atop something deeper and darker and altogether more mysterious. Or consider that it has also suggested that we are the playthings of extra-dimensional beings we can hardly hope to comprehend. You can seek out the Black Lodge (as Hastings and Ruth did), or you can stumble upon it by accident (as Cooper seemingly did in the original series), but one way or another, you’re going to end up in the Lodge if it wants you there.
We like to think we’re driving our own stories, that we’re in control of our lives. But Twin Peaks would argue that none of us is anything more than a vessel for far more primal and terrifying notions, which is true on some level. Even when we have agency over ourselves, we’re the products of histories and psychologies and genetic codes that are vast and unknowable and incomprehensible. That doesn’t mean we shouldn’t be rewarded for what good we do or punished for what evil we do — but it does shake loose the thought that we’re the stars of our own stories.
Questions of duty and responsibility float around the edges of Twin Peaks in both its incarnations. Is Leland Palmer responsible for the death of his daughter, if he was possessed by evil incarnate? The show argues “yes and no,” which is about the least satisfying answer imaginable. But it’s also one worth thinking about. We’re all responsible for our actions. We’re all the products of vast systems that push us toward those actions and make it hard for us to avoid them sometimes. We are simultaneously in control and washed away in the torrent.
One thing that’s exciting about this Showtime miniseries is that nobody seems to be entirely in control of anything. The FBI is flummoxed by what its investigation is turning up, but Evil Cooper doesn’t seem to always know what his next move should be. The only person who seems to have had a long game is Major Briggs, who left a message for his son — whom he somehow knew would become a police officer, all evidence to the contrary — to find in many years’ time.
With every new episode, the series pulls back slightly further, filling in a few more pieces of the puzzle. But also with every new episode, getting to see that puzzle filled in only makes us understand that we’re not entirely sure where the puzzle’s edges are supposed to be. The picture keeps getting larger, which only makes us realize that while we might see a face or a cloud here, we don’t have any clue what the whole thing is supposed to look like.
Evil Cooper, for instance, survived his gunshot wound in “Part 8” (possibly thanks to his extra-dimensional help), and in “Part 9” he makes his way back to Chantal (Jennifer Jason Leigh) and Hutch, an Evil Cooper devotee played by Tim Roth. But the gunshot wound has also set back whatever his plan was, and he’s left scrambling to play catch-up. Similarly, the Good Cooper, still living the life of Dougie Jones, finds himself distracted by the strains of “America the Beautiful” while staring at a US flag, before looking into the dark heart of an electrical outlet (which, remember, bore him to this reality out of the Black Lodge).
Similarly, law enforcement is putting pieces together — and helping us get “explanations” that are none too helpful — but they’re always several steps behind what other characters are doing, even if they manage to catch Ike the Spike, or if Diane seems to be in contact (via text) with the Evil Cooper. You get the feeling that everything will make sense eventually, but also that once something makes “sense,” it will only help us realize how little we understood in the first place.
We’re halfway through the season so far, and with every new episode of this miniseries (which feels more and more like a gift from the TV gods), I’m left gobsmacked both by how casually it keeps filling in the puzzle and by how little I care to see the puzzle completed. I can theorize — doesn’t that ring Ben Horne and Beverly are listening to sound a lot like the ring from the device Major Briggs hid his message in? — but I almost don’t want to. It’s more fun to watch Jerry have a showdown with his foot. (The two battle to a draw.)
The most common misconception about the mystery show is that it’s all about weirdness, about suggesting big ideas that have even bigger answers. And, yes, it’s generally good to have answers somewhere in the mix. But those answers should simultaneously answer nothing at all. They should usually explain “what,” but not “why.” At the center of the mystery show is the unknowable, and how poorly equipped we are to grapple with it.
We often wildly reject art that tries to force us to think about how little we understand about the universe, much less our own lives, or art that tries to get us to think about how little control we truly have. The mystery show, somehow, gets us to think about those ideas in a place where it engages us to treat those ideas as a game. And then when you hear an answer, you realize, all over again, how dark it is in these woods, and how thick the trees.
Every Sunday, we pick a new episode of the week. It could be good. It could be bad. It will always be interesting. You can read the archives here. The episode of the week for July 1 through 8 is “Ease for Idle Millionaires,” the fifth episode of the fifth (and final) season of BBC America’s Orphan Black.
Sobbing, Cosima lowers a gun, once aimed at a suffering person’s head, to spin around and stare her creator in the face. “You gave me life, and I know you can take that away,” the clone says, her face blotchy and furious. “[But] you can’t take away my humanity.”
This is the kind of moment that first made Orphan Black so special. It’s also the kind of moment that, as the series got lost in its own mythology, became unfortunately rare.
After a stellar first season and a half-great second season, Orphan Black rapidly lost track of its own plot and multiplying clones (all played with almost frightening dexterity by Tatiana Maslany). Its shadowy corporate villains splintered into seemingly countless factions; every time the show settled on one Big Bad, three more would emerge, like it was chopping the head off a Hydra only to have several more pop up in its place.
A new group of male clones — the “Castor” line, portrayed by Ari Millen — confused things even further, shifting Orphan Black’s focus away from its strong stories about women’s autonomy and toward a narrative centered on military hubris, or something like it. The growing web of complications just got too sticky to keep up with, and by the time season four rolled around, what was once an exhilarating ride had become downright exhausting.
But now, halfway through its last season, Orphan Black is wisely doing its damnedest to pare back a bit and untangle its incredibly knotted plot in time for its series finale. The show won’t ever quite be able to escape two and a half seasons’ worth of ever-complicating plot, but episodes like July 8’s “Ease for Idle Millionaires” prove that Orphan Black can still find a way to pause its grander schemes to tell the kinds of personal stories that first made the show so fascinating.
Orphan Black’s recent efforts to simplify its sprawling mythology are the smartest thing it’s done in season five, even if those efforts are about a season and a half late. Not only does watching the show feel less like an endless game of mental tag, but the show’s narrowed focus has allowed it to get back to the kind of intimate stories it’s always excelled at telling. It’s been able to return to its central cast of clones — Sarah, Cosima, Rachel, Alison, and Helena — and give them more space to be truly human again instead of moving parts of an overwhelming whole.
Just halfway in, Orphan Black’s final season has already weeded out the many, many threats that have been keeping its clones so busy for so long. The Prolethean fundamentalist cult faded out. The disparate branches of the scientific conglomerate “Neolution” came together to concentrate their efforts on using the clones for their own research and experimental designs. Steely housewife Alison and her husband Donnie, who’d been trapped in their own Weeds-esque spinoff of suburban crimes for at least a season, found their way back to the main story, eventually getting their own bruising moment in the spotlight in the season’s third episode, “Beneath Her Heart.” And with “Ease for Idle Millionaires” — directed by Helen Shaver, Orphan Black’s sole woman director — a few key plots reached their turning points.
Cosima, who’s both a clone and a gifted scientist, flashes back to the moment in season one when she found out that her genetic code is patented and that her DNA isn’t even her own, but her girlfriend Delphine (Evelyne Brochu) helped convince her that she still had individual traits no one could ever take away. Both this flashback to season one and the couple’s scenes in the present day in “Ease for Idle Millionaires” are key to understanding Cosima’s fragile mindset. (Plus, Maslany and Brochu’s chemistry is so tender that they’re hard to resist no matter what.) When Cosima finally breaks down toward the end of the episode, it’s because she’s staring down someone who was also an experiment, someone who also couldn’t control his fate — and won’t survive because of it.
When Cosima finally confronts her creator — the mustache-twirling, supernaturally old scientist P.T. Westmoreland — it’s for torturing the man he made into a monster with dubious experimental treatments. No matter how much Cosima loves and reveres what science can do, she spends the entirety of “Ease for Idle Millionaires” gaping in disgust at how it’s been used to turn people into lab rats without their consent, all in the name of discovery. When Cosima crouches down next to the tortured man, the monster to Westmoreland’s Dr. Frankenstein, she reaches out with a quivering hand to try to remind him that he’s both human and important — and then reels in horror when Westmoreland puts a bullet through his head, the better to move on with his life’s work. This science is so far removed from the humanity Cosima holds dear that she can hardly look it in the eye without shaking.
Finally, the clones finally discover what the Neolutionist Dyad Institute wants from Sarah’s daughter, Kira, who was miraculously born from a line of clones that was designed to be infertile. Much of Orphan Black has been devoted to people trying to figure out why Sarah was able to get pregnant and have Kira, and what makes Kira special. So it’s hardly surprising when Cosima discovers that the scientists who created the clones want to study not just Kira, but her eggs too.
It’s unclear as of now what Neolution Dyad’s end goal will be, but this calculated theft of Kira’s autonomy via its plan to commandeer her eggs eerily echoes the kinds of invasive experiments that scientists and cult members and “well-meaning” monitors alike have been performing on the clones since the series began. And for as awful as it is, this development also proves that Orphan Black is ready to get back to a theme it once excelled at exploring.
When I was recapping the first three seasons of Orphan Black at the A.V. Club, I tried to ban myself from using the word “agency” in every review. This proved almost impossible, but I couldn’t be too mad about it. To its credit, Orphan Black has never just been the story of a group of clones who got swept up in something bigger than themselves; instead, it’s the story of a group of clones — and specifically women — taking control of their own lives, their own narratives, their own miraculous beating hearts.
The show has always been a constant push and pull between women fighting to maintain their independence — whatever that means to each one of them — and the people (often men) who wouldn’t blink while stripping it away.
With the final season’s villains trying to procure Kira’s eggs, Orphan Black’s entire narrative comes full circle. The strongest and most terrifying parts of Orphan Black have often traded in body horror, as forces beyond the clones’ control have tried to use everything from their DNA to their ovaries for personal gain. By weaving Kira — the daughter Sarah has been trying to protect since day one — into this story, the show gets back to its roots, and emphasizes its original intent to make people really think about what it means to be a woman whose body is constantly under attack.
Alain de Botton is an author, philosopher, and founder of the School of Life, a London-based institute “devoted to developing emotional intelligence through the help of culture.”
De Botton, the author of several best-sellers, including How Proust Can Change your Life and Religion for Atheists: A Non-Believers Guide to the Uses of Religion, has made a career of concretizing big ideas for general audiences. His books and lectures are broad in scope but always return to the original question of philosophy: “How do we live well?”
His views on religion are especially compelling. As an atheist, de Botton isn’t interested in defending religion so much as understanding it. He acknowledges that there are things religions do uniquely well, and his goal is to discover ways to replicate those benefits in a secular context.
I spoke with de Botton about his work at the School of Life and his criticisms of fellow atheists who he says fail to ask the right questions about the religions they’re refuting.
Our conversation, lightly edited for length and clarity, follows.
You’ve said the most boring question we can ask of any religion is whether or not it’s true. Why is that?
For me, and I think for many other people as well, the issue of religion actually goes way beyond belief in the supernatural, and yet a lot of the debate around religion started by people like Christopher Hitchens and Richard Dawkins reduces to familiar questions: Does God exist or not? Do angels exist or not? Is it stupid to believe in angels?
While I understand the kind of emotional resonance around that, I think the real issue is why did people get drawn to religion? Why did we invent religions? What need did they serve? And also what are the aspects around religious life that may be disconnected from belief that nevertheless have great validity and resonance for people outside of faith today?
Religions are not just a set of claims about the supernatural; they are also machines for living. They aim to guide you from birth to death and to teach you a whole range of things: to create a community, to create codes of behavior, to generate aesthetic experiences. And all of this seems to me incredibly important and, frankly, much more interesting than the question of whether Jesus was or wasn’t the son of God.
What do you think religions do best?
The underlying ambition of religions is impressive to me. They are trying to locate the tenets of a good life, of a wise life, of a kind life. They are interrogating the greatest themes, and so I'm attracted to the aspects of religion that know that human life is quite difficult and that we are going to need a lot of assistance, a lot of guidance. And what religious life is trying to do is to provide us with tools for how to keep being the best version of ourselves.
As I often say, I disagree with almost every vision of what the best self is, according to religions, but I admire the ambition and the structure that religions place upon this ambition.
You seem very interested in altering the terms of the conversation, or perhaps in redirecting it in productive ways. For example, you’ve coined the phrase “atheism 2.0.” What does that mean?
It’s to distinguish it from the modern incarnation of atheism, which was promulgated by people like Richard Dawkins and Christopher Hitchens that really made the central aspect of atheism the question of whether one did or didn’t believe. And I suppose I'm interested in the kind of atheism that starts with the assumption that of course God doesn’t exist, we made him up, that’s fine.
Now let’s move the conversation forward and look at questions like: What can religions teach us and provoke us with today? This is an atheism that knows how to engage with some of the ambitions of religion but has nothing to do with the supernatural.
So you want to preserve what is good about religion and dispense with the metaphysical baggage?
I'm not interested in directly preserving anything, because I don’t believe that you can go to church if you don’t believe in it.
I want to look at the way religions go about things as an inspiring starting point for thinking about what secular culture is lacking and still needs. Because let’s remember that when religion started to decline in the 19th century, in Western Europe, there was a lot of thinking that was done. People asked how would we fill the gap, the God-shaped hole. And there were lots of theories, and the leading answer, I suppose, was culture.
And we know that this is the case because you only have to look at the architecture of libraries and theaters and universities that were built in the age of declining religion to understand that our ancestors sought to fill the gap by creating temples of art, temples of culture, temples of learning, where we would congregate as we had previously done in the temples of religion.
I think it’s a very interesting ambition. It’s also an ambition that has failed. If you showed up at Harvard or the Museum of Modern Art and you fell on your knees and you questioned the meaning of life and you looked for direction, you would quickly be ushered into a mental asylum. This is simply not what culture nowadays sees itself as doing.
What is the constituency for this new brand of atheism? Who are you targeting?
I'm targeting a sort of person who thinks believing in religion has never really been an option and who isn’t particularly interested in attacking religion, declaring it stupid, seeing its errors and flaws and cruelties. All of which, to my mind, clearly exist, but this person isn’t exercised by this.
They are more interested in saying, where might I turn in order to look at questions of higher meaning and higher purpose? In terms of ethics, they’re asking, what does a good life look like?  What are my responsibilities to others?  What is the community?  The sorts of questions you don’t find discussed on late-night TV and that are not really part of the kind of general atmosphere of secular culture.
It does feel like our modern technocratic culture has purged these sorts of inquiries from public life. Is the School of Life, which is headquartered in London but operates across the globe, your attempt to address the ultimate questions — how to live, how to die, what is good, what is evil — in an explicitly secular context?
There are lots of people thinking about these questions, and they’ve been doing this for a long time. So what’s distinctive about the School of Life is not that there are people there who think about these things. I think what’s slightly distinctive is that it’s an institution; it’s not merely one person writing a book. And let’s remember that the model of an intellectual writing a book about big questions is the way in which secular culture has approached these higher themes for the last 150 years.
What the School of Life has tried to do is to say let’s start a collective movement here around these things. What, after all, is the difference between one writer writing a book and an institution?
First of all, it’s the number of people. Secondly, it’s the idea of a physical space where people gather to forge a personal connection with one another. It’s also about longevity, the continuity of a project over time. We want to create a hub, a stable home for these things.
I know you’ve taken fire from both sides: The religious people say you’re impious, and the atheists say you’ve betrayed the cause. How do you respond to each camp?
Honestly, I'm not particularly exercised by this, because there will always be vocal critics. I would say that generally in a European context the religious voices have been the friendlier ones, because they’ve had to reconcile themselves with mass atheism.
It’s quite different in the United States. It was only relatively recently that I understood fully the extremely negative connotations that exist around the word atheism in America, which don’t exist at all in Europe. And American atheists are frequently forced to defend themselves against charges of amorality, or immorality, which is not something that one would ever be asked to do on this side of the Atlantic. So that’s an interesting distinction to be alive to.
That’s a rabbit hole I'm tempted to tumble down, but I'll resist the temptation for now.  This seems like a good place to circle back to what you said earlier about Richard Dawkins and Christopher Hitchens.
I’m not a believer, but I’ve been critical of some of the so-called New Atheists in the past. My complaint is that often they don’t think seriously about the psychological appeal of religion. God is merely an epistemological question for them. But we’ve known that the empirical claims of religion are false since at least Copernicus, and yet religion persists. Clearly religion is about more than what’s materially true.
You have someone like Richard Dawkins, who says, “I don’t give a damn if people find religious belief comfortable or meaningful. I only care whether it’s true.” I understand his point of view, but I’m not sure this is the most productive way forward. And I say that as someone who shares his goal of divorcing ethical concerns from religious metaphysics.
I am with you totally. I had that conversation with him in person. I think one of the most interesting things about religious belief is that clearly it comes from a place of vulnerability. If you don’t believe, then the answer is simple — it comes because it’s the truth.
If you're not in that camp, then you have to start with a notion of vulnerability. It is coming from a place of pain and vulnerability. That pain and vulnerability does not disappear once you decide the belief is no longer true. So you're still left with this huge question, and I think it’s the vulnerability that fascinates me.
This is where we still have a lot of work to do. Your secular society presents really two answers to existence. The first is romantic love, with which I have serious problems. The second is a career, a profession. These are the things that are advocated to us as the sources of earthly happiness, and both of them are incredibly problematic in ways that I think we're not fully alive to at a societal level.
In some ways, atheists and believers are just playing different language games, which is  frustrating if you’re interested in persuading people.
If the goal is to convince people that the sense of transcendence and community achieved through religion can be had without it, what kinds of questions should atheists be asking or what sorts of arguments should they be making?
I think we need to pay particular attention to the human needs being met through religion. Community, for example, is an extraordinary powerful theme within religion. It’s really the idea of how to connect with others in a sacred space.
This goes right to the heart of how we associate. What a nation is, what a community is, what a group is, what it means to live within a group — these are essential questions, and I think religion’s trying to come up with fascinating answers to them.
Then there is the moral domain. What does it mean to be good? What are the different claims on us? What do we owe and to whom? How do we keep our worst impulses in check, and how do we foster our best impulses?
You mentioned transcendence. How do we transcend our lower selves?  How do we accede to a more generous, forgiving, timeless zone of our consciousness? Religions have engaged these questions for a very long time, particularly the religions of the east.
Do you think religions have a better grip on our emotional architecture than modern science does? I’m thinking in particular of how religions use rhetoric and narrative.
Too much of a generalization to say “always” and “at all points,” but religions certainly show vivid understanding. For example, religions are very alive to the need for repetition, which is something that secular culture is quite deaf to. They’re very alive to what the Greeks call a weakness of will, which is really the phenomenon where there’s lots of things that we theoretically believe but that are dead in our hearts and our minds day to day, because we have not been vividly reminded of them.
There’s a difference between theoretical and active knowledge, and religions are alive to that distinction and are very keen to make certain bits of knowledge active. And this is why they are constantly repeating things, constantly getting us to do things in order to bring these theoretical ideas to life.
Much of what constitutes religious life is ritualized life. And that’s a massive distinction with secular culture, which leaves it to the individual to feel things according to their own calendar and their own inner impulses.
The communal aspect of religion is certainly a strength, but it’s also deeply problematic. On the one hand, it creates a transcendent community through a constellation of ideas and shared practices. On the other hand, it’s essentially tribalism writ large. It drives a metaphysical wedge between an in-group and an out-group, and sets the stakes of those divisions in the starkest terms possible.
Do you think there’s a way to replicate the communal aspect of religion without also taking on this inherently tribalistic component?
Well, I think we have to remember what some of the best features of religion are, and recognize that there can be secular alternatives. Religions, for example, remind us of our common humanity, a humanity shared across races and geographical boundaries. There are hints of this within Christianity, and there are hints of this in Buddhism.
The tribalism is obviously problematic, but I think at their best what religions do is present the stranger in a new light. They offer us a kind of universality, a cosmopolitanism of the mind. This is a move that can take place outside of religion.
Churches and synagogues and mosques are seen as safe places where once you are in them, things can happen that wouldn’t happen outside of the precincts of this space. So they’ve become spaces where the stranger is welcomed, where all kinds of things that might be frowned upon outside are acceptable within, and in that sense, religion acts as a kind of host introducing humans to one another, humanizing them in each other’s eyes.
This seems to me a very valuable exercise, because secular modernity is anonymous. It’s built on the concept of anonymity and that the family is hugely important and the lover is hugely important, but beyond that other forms of association don’t really exist.
You seem resigned to the fact that something beyond science will have to replace religion in a godless world. What will that alternative look like?
Broadly speaking, what I think should replace it is culture, so in that sense I'm a very traditional 19th-century secular person. I simply think that the way in which we present culture, frame culture, needs to be altered.
Reframing how we go about looking at cultural works is something I’ve done playfully and more seriously in different ways. For instance, I wrote this book called How Proust Can Change Your Life, and what was interesting is that Proust, when he wrote his famous book, In Search of Lost Time, thought quite a lot about religion and definitely was in that 19th-century camp of thinking of art as the replacement for religion. He was very explicit about that, and so that’s how I understood him.
But we are not encouraged to read Proust that way. And I came under heavy fire from many professional Proust scholars, not for anything I wrote specifically but for the nature of the project. People simply could not believe that I’d take a canonical writer and see him as a source of the meaning of life.
That’s not how we read in the modernist tradition, and yet it is absolutely how many of the greatest works of culture were created. So it’s not so much about needing to create different kinds of culture as needing to be more faithful, I think, to some of the originating impulses behind these works.
That we fail to do this is a bizarre blind spot in our culture.
This week, Eddie Glaude Jr. — MSNBC commentator, professor of African-American studies at Princeton University, and author of Democracy in Black — answers our questions.
What’s the first piece of media you consume every day?
The New York Times.
Name a writer or publication you disagree with but still read.
David Brooks.
Who is the person who has most influenced the way you think?
James Baldwin.
When was the last time you changed your mind about something?
During the recent general election I called for a complete blank out: that African Americans should turn out to vote in massive numbers and leave the presidential ballot blank. With Donald Trump’s nomination, I decided that we should not do that in battleground states.
What’s your worst intellectual habit?
Impatience. My mind moves rapidly.
What inspires you to learn?
Curiosity. In awe at the wonder of the world(s) we inhabit.
What do you need to believe in order to get through the day?
That what I say and do — what we say and do — actually matters. As William James puts it, “What we say about reality thus depends on the perspective into which we throw it. The that of it is its own; but the what depends on the which; and the which depends on us.”
What’s a view that you hold but can’t defend?
The seafood on the Gulf Coast is the best in the entire world.
What book have you recommended the most?
James Baldwin, The Fire Next Time.
You can read last week’s edition of 9 Questions with Henry Rollins here.
Every weekend, we pick a movie you can stream that dovetails with current events. Old, new, blockbuster, arthouse: They’re all fair game. What you can count on is a weekend watch that sheds new light on the week that was. The movie of the week for July 8 to 15 is Don Verdean (2015), which is available to digitally rent on Amazon, Vudu, iTunes, and Google Play.
When the strange story of Hobby Lobby’s illegal smuggling of 5,500 artifacts from Iraq surfaced this week — along with the subsequent payment of a $3 million fine — it was impossible not to think it sounded like a movie. In fact, it sounded like several movies: maybe one starring Indiana Jones, or the early scenes of The Exorcist.
But for me there was only one analogue: Don Verdean, a film starring Sam Rockwell as the titular character. He’s a “biblical archaeologist,” which is like Indiana Jones except with a mission to strengthen the faith of the faithful with the artifacts he retrieves from around the world. I am the only person I know who enjoyed the film as much as I did — it has a mere 30 percent rating on Rotten Tomatoes.
I attribute my delight with the film to the fact that as a kid, I went to more than a few conferences and services where characters like Rockwell’s were speaking. Presumably director Jared Hess (Napoleon Dynamite), who, along with his co-writer and wife Jerusalem Hess, is Mormon, did as well. It’s the only thing that would account for the film’s spot-on dialogue and humor, which skewers a handful of megachurch culture’s obsessions: growing the size of the congregation, providing empirical “proof” for various Bible stories, and supporting, emulating, and idealizing Israel.
In the film, Verdean was once a popular lecturer, but he hasn’t had a big find in a while and the well is drying up. He and his faithful assistant (played by Amy Ryan) are praying for some kind of miracle, and it seems to arrive in the form of a megachurch pastor (Danny McBride) who wants to pay Verdean to get major artifacts from the Middle East and bring them to his church — all for the sake of the Kingdom of God, of course. (He is also facing stiff competition from a competing local megachurch that is siphoning away congregants, partly because of the wow factor of its former Satanist pastor, played by Will Forte. Some fascinating authentic biblical artifacts in the foyer couldn’t hurt, right?)
Verdean calls up his Israeli contact Boaz (Jemaine Clement), who sells him the “wife of Lot.” The biblical book of Genesis includes a story in which Lot (Abraham’s nephew) and his family are fleeing the degenerate cities of Sodom and Gomorrah as fire and brimstone rain down on them. They’re instructed not to look back, but Lot’s wife does, and is turned into a pillar of salt.
What Boaz sells Verdean is a vaguely woman-shaped salty rock that’s pretty obviously not the real thing, but no matter; Verdean swallows his misgivings and presents it to the wowed audience. As the story moves on, it gets more and more outlandish; at one point, Verdean does literally steal an artifact (with the intent to fake its origin story) and smuggle it out of the country.
But the other thing I like about Don Verdean is its affectionate approach to its characters. Verdean isn’t a particularly bad guy — he’s just a desperate one, and he decides the ends (a.k.a. the eternal salvation of souls) probably justify the means (stealing artifacts). We can see that his motives are pure, even if we’re inclined to give his whole occupation a long side-eye. The movie is a story of redemption, even though it ends less than happily for him. Ill-gotten gain is never good, even if it’s gain for God.
In all likelihood, the artifacts that were part of the Hobby Lobby smuggling debacle were slated for the Museum of the Bible, which the controversial owners of the crafting supply chain have funded and filled with their collection of antiquities, and which is slated to open in Washington, DC, later this year. It’s being billed as a state-of-the-art museum and the biggest museum dedicated to the Bible in the world. So maybe the connection to Don Verdean is stronger than we might think. Truth, in this case, is at least as strange as fiction.
Watch the trailer for Don Verdean:
This article contains spoilers for the climax of the film Spider-Man: Homecoming.
Near the end of Spider-Man: Homecoming, after the villain has been defeated and Peter Parker has returned to his everyday life, he sits down for a meeting with his academic decathlon team.
Related
The team’s leader (and Peter’s love interest) Liz has moved away to Oregon, which means someone new has to step into the role. The group’s adviser suggests, oh, hey, why not Michelle? She’s played by up-and-coming actress Zendaya, and she’s had some of the movie’s best laughs.
Everybody greets this news with enthusiasm, and Michelle asks them to stop calling her Michelle. Why not start calling her MJ? That’s what her friends call her, and she now considers these people her friends.
For those who know their Spider-Man lore, the moment is constructed to elicit gasps. MJ — which usually stands for “Mary Jane” but here stands apparently for “Michelle something with a J” — is the love of Peter Parker’s life, the woman he marries and has kids with. Mary Jane was portrayed memorably by Kirsten Dunst in the first three Spider-Man movies, was supposed to be portrayed by Shailene Woodley in 2014’s Amazing Spider-Man 2 (until she was cut from the film), and is one of the few “superhero girlfriends” who can hold her own with her famous paramour.
For the icing on the cake, Homecoming frames the shot of this new MJ casually dropping this bit of information so there’s a tiger in the background — a neat reference to Mary Jane calling Peter “tiger” in the comics and original film trilogy.
But something weird happened during this moment when I saw it with an audience: There was next to no reaction. Whatever the filmmakers had hoped to achieve here, it fell flat. And that speaks to my overriding problem with Homecoming: It has all the right impulses, but indifferent execution.
Homecoming is peppered with lots of references to Spider-Man’s long run in comics. Donald Glover’s seemingly insignificant low-level criminal character, Aaron, for instance, is actually the uncle of Miles Morales, who becomes Spider-Man in a different character chronology (where Aaron is an integral part of Miles’s story), while the high school newscaster played by Angourie Rice seems to be Betty Brant, another one of Peter’s famous girlfriends in the comics.
But you don’t have to be a Spidey expert to get these references. Sure, you might think, “Did they just waste Donald Glover in a nothing part?” but you’ll probably go with it. The MJ reveal, however, is something even casual Spider-Man fans will pick up on, thanks to how well-known the character has become, especially after Dunst’s portrayal of her.
What’s more, Zendaya is consistently one of the most entertaining parts of the film up until that point, providing some of its biggest laughs with her seeming indifference to all the superhero shenanigans erupting around her. The movie is really trying to make you hope you’ll get more from her character — and the MJ reveal is a promise that in the sequels, yes, you’ll get much more. (If you are somehow in a “who is the next Jennifer Lawrence?” pool, put all of your money on Zendaya immediately.)
So why doesn’t it work? The blame, I think, lies with an earlier reveal that the audience is still recovering from when the MJ reveal happens. See, Liz’s father, Adrian Toomes, played by Michael Keaton, commits crimes under his alter ego the Vulture and is Peter’s biggest nemesis throughout the film. But, crucially, Peter doesn’t realize this fact until he arrives to pick up Liz for the school dance — and Keaton’s beaming mug greets him at the door.
The film then cycles through a bunch of story beats in a hurry. Peter, who is without his fancy supersuit due to Tony Stark essentially grounding him, has to decide what to do about the Vulture, and then, crucially, Adrian figures out there’s a reason Spider-Man and Peter never seem to be in the same place at the same time.
This gives the story a lot of momentum, as Peter has to decide if he’s going to have a fun time with Liz at the dance or stop the Vulture’s next big scheme. Even better, the scenes where Peter has to deal with his girlfriend’s pissed-off dad — who just so happens to be a supervillain — are probably the film’s high point, no special effects needed.
The momentum of the Vulture reveal propels the story to its climax, which is effective, if imperfect. (Director Jon Watts’s greatest weakness comes in staging the film’s action scenes, though he’s great at the John Hughes-style character comedy.) But it also allows the movie to coast just a bit, as Peter accepts both the responsibility and the power of being Spider-Man, a superhero for the little guy. (It doesn’t hurt that both Peter and Toomes have working-class roots, which makes them two sides of the same “the rich and powerful are screwing it all up, and I can do something about it!” coin.)
This means when it’s time for Michelle to ask everybody to call her MJ, there’s really no room for that beat to register. It feels like another thing the movie is checking off the list as it coasts toward the credits — make sure everybody knows who this character is before the movie ends — and unlike with the Toomes reveal, the movie doesn’t really explore any of its logical outcomes.
In other words, Homecoming withholds an important character detail just to withhold an important character detail, not to make a moment land with more impact. And since we just saw the movie land a similar reveal with maximum impact, it makes the latter reveal feel all the more hollow.
The MJ moment reminded me of when the makers of Star Trek Into Darkness spent months and months saying Benedict Cumberbatch wasn’t playing Khan — one of Captain Kirk’s most famous nemeses — only for the film to reveal that, yeah, he was playing Khan. (It even spent half the movie’s running time pretending he was some other guy entirely.)
Zendaya is an up-and-coming star, she’s been all over the film’s promotion, and she and Peter Parker player Tom Holland have great, easy chemistry on the press circuit. The second she was cast, the safe assumption was that she was playing Mary Jane Watson. You wouldn’t cast someone with a long career ahead of her as “random friend of Peter Parker.”
But for some reason, the filmmakers decided to hide this from moviegoers, which left the actress playing a character who’s essentially all “what can you bring to this line reading, Zendaya?” The more charitable part of me assumes that the filmmakers thought it would be fun to have one last reveal in the movie’s closing moments; the less charitable part of me thinks they might have feared backlash from casting a nonwhite actress in the part. But regardless, the reveal just doesn’t work in the way it should.
I think somewhere along the line, someone had the right idea about how to rethink MJ for this new series: Rather than being an aspiring actress, she’s a math and science geek like Peter, but her strong, sarcastic sense of self remains intact. She’s MJ, but a new enough version to give her a slightly different name. To dip into another franchise entirely, she’s clearly meant as the Hermione to Peter’s Harry Potter. (This makes Peter’s stalwart best friend Ned into Ron, I guess, and I approve.)
But poor execution stomped all over that right impulse. Why not lean into the fact that viewers will know Peter and MJ most likely end up together? Why not have her as part of his inner circle from the first, one of his best friends, but someone he’d never think about dating, because she’s too much like a sister to him? (Bonus: This might give Marisa Tomei’s Aunt May something more to do. Can’t you imagine her trying to play matchmaker? A cliché, maybe, but she’d have fun with it.)
The film could play the tension of what the audience knows against what Peter and MJ think of each other as 15-year-olds. It could be less about surprise and more about inevitability, about the idea that once Peter was bitten by that radioactive spider, all of the things we’re seeing play out would have to play out the way they did, because that’s what’s supposed to happen.
Surprise is a powerful storytelling tool, sure, but so is destiny, the sense that you can’t avoid your own fate. In fact, that’s a big part of this film, which is ultimately a movie about how Peter’s pie-in-the-sky dreams prevent him from seeing what’s right in front of him. The filmmakers had all the right tools to make that moment land in Peter’s romantic life, too, but they played too cagey with the audience, and botched what could have been something special.
Welcome to the weekly Vox book link roundup, a curated selection of the best online writing about books and related topics. Here’s the best the internet has to offer for the week of July 2, 2017.
JD: So, have you met Drake?
MA: I haven’t met Drake, but I have of course met people who have met Drake. But you have to realize how o-l-d I am. I’m not likely to go to the same parties. Or many parties at all, to be frank.
JD: I understand. I just think that, Canada—I’ll say this to the whole nation—you are missing a great opportunity to put these two folks together. Have you listened to his music? Do you have any opinions?
MA: Wouldn’t it be fun for him to have a cameo in season two of The Handmaid’s Tale?
The country got started with a labor of Africans – to do work for free and reproduce themselves as more workers. When I did A Mercy, that book was supposed to be just before racism became the letter and the characteristic of the land. It’s just before the Salem witch trials, when they were running around killing people for religious reasons. Religious people got upset about all that, but not about color. But following that, it became this. The ‘healing’ – it was the way in which people got together: white become white. Think about it: If you come to this country from Germany, or Russia, or anywhere, you get off the boat, get on the land. But in order to become an American, you have to be white.
Few writers have watched and captured women with such conspicuous pleasure as du Maurier — the way they walk and wear coats and unscrew their earrings. The way they pin up their hair and stub out their cigarettes; the way they call to their dogs, break horses, comfort children, deceive their husbands and coax plants from flinty soil. Few writers (Elena Ferrante comes to mind) have been so aware of how women excite one another’s imaginations.
When my father won the English prize at his grammar school in 1946 his teachers gave him a copy of Arthur Mee’s Book of Everlasting Things. He was seven. Though only certain books were allowed in Exclusive Brethren homes, my preacher grandfather examined the volume and pronounced it acceptable. “This was a serious mistake,” my father told me. “It would have been far safer to let me read Rover and Beano.”
… “A door opened up in the wall that had been built between me and ‘the world,’” he said, “and I slipped through it.”
This is a dystopia, but also a post-apocalypse. The dystopia survived the apocalypse, nobody can get their head around it—too bad! You can do post-apocalypse things, survivalist stuff, rationing, killing, new tribalism, but you can also go the dystopia route, struggle against the decadent lords and masters, smash the seductive machine that’s controlling your head. Just because you’re crazy doesn’t mean you’re not also stupid, and neither precludes the possibility that you’ve got your boot on the neck of someone even worse off.
Happy reading!
The Fourth of July is already a ripe time for online humor, but on this particular independence week, the internet went all out to prove that America truly is the land of the meme and the home of the ideologically divided.
The week’s reigning internet furor centered on President Trump tweeting an anti-CNN wrestling GIF that originated from a right-wing extremist troll on Reddit, followed by the debate over CNN’s decision to track down the GIF’s creator and, so some argued, threaten to out his real-life identity.
Related
Meanwhile, when we weren’t divided over the meaning of the Trump GIF and CNN’s response, we were divided over the Declaration of Independence. A meme involving the Hollywood Walk of Fame saucily questioned who our president is, while the late-week news that Hobby Lobby had been smuggling ancient artifacts, possibly looted from Iraq, briefly united us in amused bafflement once again.
And if all that wasn’t enough activity, the Kardashians then entered the picture.
Here’s what you might have missed on the internet while you were off shooting fireworks.
In one of those moments of surreality that nearly defy description, some online Trump supporters spent the Fourth of July in a state of hostility directed at the foundational document of American freedom.
It started when NPR’s Twitter feed spent the Fourth tweeting the entirety of the Declaration of Independence, line by line, in one massive thread:
241 years ago today, church bells rang out over Philadelphia as the Declaration of Independence was adopted https://t.co/PAcHgLqOUE
All was going well — human events were coursed, truths were held to be self-evident, and patriots were roused to alter their former Systems of Government — but some watching the display began accusing NPR of calling for a revolution against Trump.
So, NPR is calling for revolution.Interesting way to condone the violence while trying to sound "patriotic".Your implications are clear.
Others seemed mad that NPR was promoting “trash”:
Seriously, this is the dumbest idea I have ever seen on twitter. Literally no one is going to read 5000 tweets about this trash.
This rhetoric baffled onlookers, but it really escalated when the Declaration of Independence threw a hefty amount of shade at King George III. (That’s this guy, for anyone who needs a refresher.)
A Prince whose character is thus marked by every act which may define a Tyrant, is unfit to be the ruler of a free people.
Trump detractors rallied around the quote as newly prophetic, while one reader, who later deleted their account, begged NPR to stop:
The resulting debate led to media outlets reprinting the declaration in full, and revived this story from the era of McCarthyism, when a reporter attempted to get modern patriots to sign the document in defense of freedom, only to receive disbelief and ridicule:
The reaction to @NPR's Declaration of Independence tweets reminds me of this classic from the era of McCarthyism: https://t.co/33IMVyj0OO pic.twitter.com/fw08PI1PHF
In the middle of ongoing debates over politically motivated doxxing and the meaning of true patriotism, it was nice to have a reminder that the basic ideas underlying the Declaration of Independence are still considered as radical today as they were in 1776.
there's nothing more american than getting pissed because you think the declaration of independence is shitting on the president pic.twitter.com/gkWSTR8SIY
Because everything is now a meme, a Trump supporter who stopped to clean Donald Trump’s defaced star on the Walk of Fame kicked off a meme in which Walk of Fame stars all became president.
Stopped to clean @realDonaldTrump Hollywood Star. Nothing but respect for MY President. #RaisedRight pic.twitter.com/jL4sqx4rlh
Makenna’s defiant ceremony of star cleaning spawned a flurry of immediate viral responses:
Stopped to clean @MerylStreep Hollywood Star. Nothing but respect for MY President. #RaisedRight pic.twitter.com/sqLsZ70bul
stopped to clean @DannyDeVito Hollywood star. nothing but respect for MY president pic.twitter.com/RYY2p3dlmw
Stopped to clean his sign. Nothing but respect for my president. pic.twitter.com/RZGviSthhm
Even if you didn’t confuse your favorite star with your president, the meme was still useful:
This s Kenanu Reeeves star of famous he's not President but he's a cool dude with a cool 'tude. I would clean it but I live in New York eyyy pic.twitter.com/ytKakwUk08
If nothing else, the intersection of celebrity and politics that defines the Trump presidency continues to be fertile ground for silly patriotic humor.
On Wednesday, Rob Kardashian posted a series of revealing nude photos of his ex Blac Chyna on Instagram. This is an act of harassment and intimidation that’s commonly referred to as revenge porn, and it’s actually illegal in California, Kardashian’s home state. Instagram responded to the violation of its site rules after a few dramatic hours by completely deleting Kardashian’s account — after which Kardashian promptly popped up on Twitter, where he’d previously been a relatively infrequent tweeter.
Since Instagram shut me down everyone peep my twitter lol
When Rob Kardashian Instagram got shut everyone Got on Twitter like pic.twitter.com/NSZ8hBkC0q
As Kardashian began to tweet defenses of himself and his perception of his betrayal at Chyna’s hands (it’s complicated), other Twitter users pointed out that the move had negative implications for Twitter culture.
Twitter should be super embarrassed it's so bad at harassment it's now the revenge porn go-to! https://t.co/2w64Y8fNrz
Business Insider claims that Kardashian actually tweeted out some of the nude photos and kept them on his Twitter for up to half an hour before they were deleted, though apart from a few tweets, there don’t seem to be any screengrabs or other corroborating evidence to back that claim. Twitter appears to have taken no action against Kardashian.
Related
Thanks to a government order to forfeit stolen artifacts, the world learned this week that Hobby Lobby had been smuggling possibly looted artifacts out of Iraq, likely for use in its planned Bible Museum. The news, which potentially implicates Hobby Lobby in tacitly funding ISIS, was weird and startling enough to turn heads.
GUYS—Hobby Lobby's president has personally been smuggling cuneiform tablets disguised as tile “samples” out of Iraq https://t.co/bJ5COFlPuF pic.twitter.com/eihFMod8J3
However, it didn’t take long for the internet to seize upon the news’s potential for memes and humor.
Love to shop at Hobby Lobby pic.twitter.com/D64VEMGLed
Hobby Lobby smuggling ancient Iraqi artifacts into the US: pic.twitter.com/7YhIXPQrmx
I can't wait for the Mummy reboot where an ancient horror is unleashed in a Hobby Lobby in Tulsa. https://t.co/fXgAmaGCBO
Of course, there were some who took the humor too far:
Do NOT underestimate Hobby Lobby's craftiness.I'll show myself out.
If your head is reeling from all the week’s drama, fear not —  sports fandom is here to give you a respite.
With Paul George moving West, only 1 of the top 14 players in last year’s #NBARank will be in the Eastern Conference. pic.twitter.com/xmexPKuWxB
After ESPN pointed out that there’s currently a slight, erm, disparity in the talent migrating between the Eastern and Western NBA conferences, basketball fans began to illustrate the differences more clearly:
#NBA Eastern Conference Vs. Western Conference. (via @ringer) #BALLGOD
A post shared by BALLGOD (@ballgod) on Jul 5, 2017 at 6:08am PDT
NBA West vs NBA East pic.twitter.com/JO3XG520Zu
Western Conference vs Eastern Conference battles to make the playoffs pic.twitter.com/cAKYk89IND
LeBron in the Eastern Conference All-Star locker room next year: pic.twitter.com/BSiMh60Zx3
At least sports fans in the Eastern Conference can look forward to memes like this all season long.
The Twitter bot DeathMedieval has been attracting recent attention for its unexpected popularity, especially given its morbid purpose: The bot tweets out the actual causes of death of unlucky citizens in the Middle Ages.
William Bachelor, died 1396 when a sand pit he was sleeping under fell upon him and killed him by misadventure
The bot has a tendency to tweet out all of the known information about the deaths, which are taken from medieval coroners’ rolls and weirdly often include the price of the killer instrument:
Hugh de Leghe, died 1343, smote by Richard de Langeleghe in the throat with a bodkin worth one penny
A stranger, died 1304 by a certain stick made in the shape of a fist with a sharp iron on the head. For the stick, 1d.
A child, died~1300 after being struck accidentally with a stick by a woman in a quarrel with another woman. Price of the stick is not named
The bot was created in 2013 but has gained steam in recent weeks, garnering several thousand followers over the past month thanks to increased notice from Twitter’s horror community. The total follower count currently stands at more than 22,000. And it’s easy to see why: These doomed peasants are all of us.
Margery Golde, died 1297, burned to death after a night of being “drunk beyond measure”, her bed catching fire in her slumber
Same, same.
President Donald Trump’s travel ban has a new, surprising critic: Spotify, the music app with more than 140 million active users in 60 countries around the world.
On Thursday, the popular music app launched “I’m with the banned,” a new visual and audio project highlighting artists from Syria, Sudan, Somalia, Libya, Yemen, and Iran — the six Muslim-majority countries included on Trump’s travel ban, which partially went into effect on June 29.
Filmed and recorded in Toronto, the project highlights the musicians’ personal experiences living in countries tormented by civil war, receiving death threats from extremists, and moving away from their homes.
The goal, according to Spotify’s press release, is to “empower artists and fans from different cultures to come together, and to amplify the voices of people and communities that have been silenced.”
Several American artists were in the studio to work with the international artists. Desiigner, a rapper known for his single “Panda,” worked with Waayaha Cusub, a hip-hop group from Somalia. And rapper Pusha T collaborated with Moh Flow, a Syrian singer-songwriter who grew up listening to American rap.
The other international artists include Kasra V, a DJ from Iran, Sufyvn from Sudan, Ahmed Fakroun from Libya, and Methal from Yemen.
Themes of civil rights, freedom, war, personal grief, and identity flow through each of the six songs produced by the artists.
Methal, an artist from Yemen, said she stopped playing music in 2014 after she received death threats because her music dared to tackle issues like religion and social justice. She packed her passport and guitar and took a boat with refugees.
“I realized that if I want to keep doing something I love, I need to leave,” said Methal in her Spotify video.
But while Spotify’s project highlights just six artists’ stories, the travel ban is affecting thousands of people in the six countries it includes.
The travel ban officially went into effect on June 29, and temporarily bars people from those six countries from getting US visas for 90 days and refugees from entering the US for 120 days, unless they have a “bona fide relationship” with a person or organization in the US.
As Vox’s Dara Lind explained, the Trump administration is interpreting “bona fide relationship” to exclude some relatives like grandparents, grandchildren, aunts and uncles, or refugees whose connection to the US is that a refugee resettlement agency has agreed to assist them when they arrive.
That means that the ban could be most devastating for refugees. As Vox’s Tara Golshan reported, there are still huge question marks surrounding the ban, like what happens to refugees who are already involved in the refugee application and resettlement process.
But it’s clear that people are already being affected. Spotify’s latest project is their way of showing solidarity with refugees and other immigrants from the six countries.
This isn’t the music app’s first dive into political issues. In the run-up to last year’s presidential election, the company launched a project called “Clarify” with Mic, a millennial-focused news site, and HeadCount, a voter registration organization, to reach young voters and spark conversations around key issues, including student debt, guns, and civil rights.
In January, they published “The Refugee Playlist,” a collection of songs from artists who were born outside of the US and fled their home countries. The playlist received mixed reactions, with some people criticizing the move on Twitter, saying some of the songs included were disrespectful and that making a playlist doesn’t solve anything.
But Spotify said they will continue creating similar content highlighting a variety of issues that are important to their audience. A full-length documentary on the “I’m with the banned” project is expected to be released this fall.
“What politics can't seem to mend, maybe music can,” said Seth Farbman, Spotify’s chief marketing officer, in an emailed statement.
When Rob Kardashian posted what appeared to be nude photos of his ex-fiancée Blac Chyna on the internet in a petty act of revenge on Wednesday, people were shocked. Not just because revenge porn is illegal in California, Kardashian’s home state, and not just because, illegal or not, it was pretty clearly a dick move and a horrific violation of trust on Kardashian’s part.
It was also shocking because Rob is a Kardashian. He’s part of a clan that knows exactly how damaging and painful it can be to have someone else decide to reveal you to the world at your most vulnerable. Rob’s older sister Kim has spent most of her public career responding to the fact that her ex-boyfriend Ray J tried to make their sex tape public without her permission. (Kim eventually settled a lawsuit against Ray J for a reported $5 million, and the tape was released legally.) How could someone whose sister was almost ruined when her sex tape was leaked do something so terrible?
But Rob’s actions actually fall neatly in line with the ways in which the Kardashian family has talked about nudity for years. From the beginning of their public life, the Kardashians have been obsessed with the question of how to perform nudity in public: when it’s acceptable, when it’s “trashy,” when it’s to be celebrated, and when it’s destructive. That’s the question that began their public life — after Kim’s sex tape was released in 2007 — and that’s the question that the first season of their reality show, Keeping Up With the Kardashians, devoted itself to answering when it debuted the same year.
And what they have concluded again and again ever since is that public nudity is to be celebrated when it is performed with the markings of whiteness and wealth. When nudity is performed without those signifiers, it becomes trashy.
When Rob posted Chyna’s nudes online without her permission, he wasn’t only violating her privacy. He was posting nudes without the signifiers of wealth and whiteness that make public nudity acceptable for his family. He was punishing Chyna by turning the nudes into a weapon to be used against her rather than a publicity tool to be used by her.
Here are some plot lines from the eight-episode first season of Keeping Up With the Kardashians, which aired on E in 2007.
In the first episode, Kim is preparing for her appearance on The Tyra Banks Show, and she’s trying to figure out how to talk about her sex tape. She role-plays the interview with her older sister Kourtney.
“Why did you make a sex tape?” Kourtney asks as Tyra.
“Because I was horny and I felt like it,” Kim replies, her voice flat and affectless.
“When I first heard about Kim’s tape, as her mother, I wanted to kill her,” Kris Jenner tells the camera. “But as her manager, I knew that I had a job to do, and I really just wanted her to move past it.”
In the second episode, Kris hires a nanny to help out with preteen Kylie and Kendall, but the family is shocked to find the nanny running through the house in a bikini top and miniskirt.
“My mom supposedly called a really reputable agency,” Khloé tells the camera in a confessional, “but it looks to me as though she called Hookers ’R’ Us. This girl is trashy.”
She picks up the phone to call her mother. “There is a whore watching your children, basically topless, around your husband,” she says. “You need to get over here before your husband leaves you for this 12-year-old beeyotch.”
In the third episode, Kim, Khloé, and Kourtney shoot an ad campaign for the Girls Gone Wild swimwear line, but Kris cautions them against telling Caitlyn Jenner, their then-stepfather, that it’s happening, because Caitlyn is “very conservative.” Caitlyn, inevitably, learns about the photo shoot and flies to Mexico to confront them.
“We’re not doing anything wrong or explicit or crazy,” says Kris.
“You know that we would never do anything that would make us not classy,” Kourtney adds. “We’re just not like that.”
In the fourth episode, Kim is considering a photo shoot for Playboy. She frets over the idea of posing nude, but she thinks it will be all right as long as it’s classy. “Do it with class, ’cause you’ve got a big ass,” Kourtney advises.
Kris opines that Kim should do the shoot, to which Kourtney says, “Of course you want her to do it, with your 10 percent manager commission. I know about you!”
In the end, Kim decides to pose nude, but only if she’s draped in pearls and diamonds.
In the seventh episode, Rob muses over dating a stripper, and Kim is horrified. “My brother is not dating a stripper, that’s sick,” she says in a talking head confessional. (Chyna, incidentally, used to be a stripper.) “I’m gonna find him a nice, normal girl.” She sets him up with a former Playboy Playmate of the Year.
In the season finale, a menacing figure threatens to sell nude photos of a teenage Kourtney to magazines. Kourtney refuses to feel guilty. “I feel fine about myself,” she says. “I was 17, I took pictures with my boyfriend.”
Her then-boyfriend Scott Disick is appalled. “You’re saying because you were 17, it’s not a big deal?” he says.
“Everyone has sex with their boyfriend,” Kim reasons. “Everyone takes pictures.”
“Not everyone takes pictures,” says Kris darkly.
What becomes clear over the course of the season is that there is acceptable public nudity, and there is unacceptable public nudity. As far as Keeping Up With the Kardashians is concerned, nudity is acceptable when it is performed with “class”: when it is done for a well-known magazine or famous brand, when there is a lot of money involved, when there are jewels adorning your naked body. When the Kardashians do nudity intentionally — with their wealth, fame, and whiteness — they are de facto “classy.” They can’t do anything “not classy” because they’re “just not like that.”
So when Kim Kardashian “breaks the internet” with the sight of her naked rear in a photo shoot in 2014, she is, under the Kardashian rubric, classy: She’s appearing in a reputable publication, and she’s styled like Audrey Hepburn. Even an Instagram nude selfie, which lacks the arty trappings of a magazine photo shoot, becomes Kardashian classy by virtue of being performed intentionally, by someone wealthy and white and privileged.
But when nudity is performed by a stripper or by someone in a service industry, then it is trashy, sick, and whorish. And private nudity — sex tapes or nude photographs made for private use — is at best regrettable. It’s wrong for someone else to make a sex tape or private nudes public, but the Kardashians suggest that it’s also in poor taste to make them in the first place if you don’t expect them to go public eventually.
Keeping Up With the Kardashians was so concerned with what nudity is and is not okay in its first season in part because it was a conversation the whole family had just had, very publicly, after Kim’s sex tape with the singer Willie “Ray J” Norwood was released.
Ray J reportedly wanted to release the tape because he thought it would make him famous — but as his savvier friends knew, few men become famous from sex tapes.
“Ray J was Brandy’s brother and everyone always called him Brandy’s brother and no matter what he did, he couldn’t come out from under that shadow,” said Ray J’s ex-girlfriend Karrine Steffans. “And he really, really, really, really believed — really in his heart of hearts believed — that this sex tape was going to finally make him white-girl famous. It’s a different kind of famous. White girls can do anything and be famous; a white girl could slip and fall in the middle of Rodeo Drive and all of a sudden she’s a star. Black women can’t do that, and certainly black men can’t do that, and white men can’t do that.”
Male nudity is rarely scandalous, and the men in heterosexual sex tapes rarely become notorious or infamous. It’s women whose sexuality is fervently policed, and women who are most likely to bear the publicity burden of a famous sex tape. Plus, as Steffans pointed out, that burden is a lot easier to bear for white women than it is for women of color.
“‘You’re a black man, so it’s not going to do for you what it’s going to do for her,’ is what I told him,” Steffans said, “and I said, ‘If she were a black female, I’ll tell her not to [release the tape].’ But she’s not.’”
Even wealthy, well-connected, and white Kim Kardashian wasn’t able to kill her sex tape when someone else wanted to release it. (Reportedly, she cried when she found out that it was being shopped around for sale.) She wasn’t able to avoid the onslaught of slut shaming that the press would aim at her over the next few years. What she was able to do was get it hidden behind a paywall and land $5 million in recompense, and eventually leverage the resulting notoriety into a media empire. And she was able to do that in part because her whiteness and her wealth gave her sex tape a modicum of respectability. According to the Kardashian rubric, having made the tape was still regrettable, but at least its contents were “classy.” It couldn’t be anything else.
The moral system underlying this rubric is one in which women’s bodies are public property and the right to control one’s body must be earned. It’s a system in which whiteness and wealth are signifiers of purity and moral superiority, while blackness and sex work are impure and morally inferior.
The Kardashian rubric doesn’t grant Blac Chyna the same privileges that it granted Kim. Chyna is wealthy and moderately famous, but she is also black, and she used to be a stripper. In the Kardashian hierarchy, that makes her nudity trashy, not classy — and her private nudity becomes even more socially unacceptable.
So when Rob posted Blac Chyna’s nudes on the internet, he was taking a distinctly Kardashian form of revenge: He was rendering her “unclassy” in public, and using her race and her background to turn her body into a weapon against her. What he did was inexcusable and possibly illegal — but it’s entirely consistent with the way the Kardashians have always thought about women’s bodies.
Any actor who headlines a superhero movie faces significant pressure; that’s simply the nature of the beast. Superhero characters have huge, extremely opinionated fan bases, film studios are banking on actors that can ideally sustain a multi-picture franchise, and performers have to please critics and news outlets that are increasingly exhausted by superhero properties. But few have had to deal with the weight of expectations placed on Tom Holland, a.k.a. Hollywood’s newest Spider-Man.
Spider-Man has been on shaky cinematic ground as of late. The character has headlined two different film franchises in the past 15 years: director Sam Raimi’s initially promising Spider-Man trilogy in the 2000s, which ended with a disastrous third installment, and Marc Webb’s Amazing Spider-Man series, which was truncated after the second film. Sony was desperate for a fresh take, and turned to superhero movie juggernaut Marvel Studios for help, striking a deal that allowed Peter Parker to enter the immensely successful Marvel Cinematic Universe. Spider-Man: Homecoming is the product of that union, a co-production between Marvel Studios and Sony’s Columbia Pictures that puts the expectations of two studios on the shoulders of the 21-year-old Holland.
There was inherent risk in placing the future of Spider-Man’s cinematic legacy in the hands of a relatively unknown up-and-comer like Holland, but Marvel Studios had something Sony didn’t: an established superhero cinematic universe that creates a very different context for this new Peter Parker. Where Sony’s previous Spider-Man films largely stood alone and needed to reestablish the world around the hero with each revival, Marvel could introduce Spidey by making him part of a separate superhero blockbuster: last summer’s Captain America: Civil War.
If executed correctly, Holland’s debut as Peter Parker in Civil War could get viewers excited to see more of the MCU’s interpretation of the character — and that’s exactly what happened. Spider-Man proved to be the breakout star in a movie featuring a stacked roster of superheroes played by big-name actors like Robert Downey Jr.’s Iron Man and Chris Evans’s Captain America.
Parker’s initial conversation with Tony “Iron Man” Stark gave viewers a strong impression of Holland’s flustered-but-eager character, and those qualities carried over to Spider-Man’s demeanor during the film’s big action centerpiece, which pitted Iron Man’s team of government-sanctioned heroes against Captain America’s rebels. Parker’s intensely awkward personality combined with Holland’s smooth, graceful movement made Spider-Man stand out among the heated, aggressive veteran heroes, and it’s all due to something you don’t typically hear mentioned in conversations about blockbuster superhero flicks: Holland’s classical dance training.
Holland trained as a gymnast during his childhood and became active in parkour running during his adolescence, but it’s his experience as a dancer that makes him an ideal actor for Spider-Man. Gymnastics and parkour are valuable skills for any action performer to have, but actors must be able to emote through that movement if they’re going to headline an entire franchise. That’s where dance comes in. Holland’s dance background informs his Spider-Man performance in a deep and dynamic way, and it also helped to drive excitement for Homecoming.
Holland got his big break at 12 years old as one of the actors sharing the lead role in the West End production of Billy Elliot: The Musical in 2008. He had more than two years of extensive ballet training to prepare him for the part, and while he’s not dancing at Billy Elliot levels anymore, he’s held on to his ability to be expressive through movement. Of all the superheroes that have become household names, Spider-Man is the one whose movement most closely resembles dance. His superpowers include enhanced agility, strength, and speed, and he can cling to (and suspend himself from) just about any surface, allowing him to use the full range of a space in ways other superheroes can’t.
There’s also an increased level of showmanship to Spider-Man, which brings an extra layer of entertainment to his movement. The character’s origin story sees Peter Parker first try to capitalize on his superpowers by becoming a professional wrestler, but even when that career doesn’t pan out, Spider-Man maintains a certain sense of flair as a superhero. He loves to crack wise while in costume because he’s putting on a show. And Holland seems to understand the performative nature of the character.
Holland’s introduction as Peter in Civil War presents him as an awkward teenager who’s still trying to figure out what to do with his superpowers, and while he has the basic understanding that he should use his abilities to help people, he’s scrambling to juggle his superhero life with his other responsibilities at home and school. Holland’s body language reinforces this confusion and anxiety, as if he’s directly translating Peter’s feelings into movement. He’s tightly wound and his movements are stiff, as if he’s unsure of how he should act at any given moment and constantly second-guessing the decisions he does make.
Peter’s Civil War debut doesn’t mention his role in the murder of his Uncle Ben and the impact that Ben’s death had on his development as a hero, but the hesitant quality of his movement tells that story, and makes it clear what he’s talking about when he tells Tony Stark about his responsibility to help others. His physical presence carries a lot of the storytelling in the scene.
Holland was primed for this type of work by his role in Billy Elliot, which forced him to spend a lot of time depicting grief with his body. Billy Elliot and his entire family are struggling to keep their household together in the wake of Billy’s mother’s death, and in the musical, Billy’s father delivers a harsh reminder of this tragedy that compels Billy to perform a frantic tap number called “Angry Dance.” This is the big Act 1 finale, and while Billy’s physicalization of his grief is far more heated than Peter Parker’s somber demeanor, it highlights how movement can amplify emotion.
Peter Parker’s relationship to his superhero persona is surprisingly similar to Billy Elliot’s relationship to dance, giving him an outlet for the emotions that arise from a loved one’s death. And though Peter Parker may call himself Spider-Man, Holland’s portrayal of the character reads as a teenage boy more than any of the previous big-screen interpretations of the role.
Holland’s youth — he’s currently 21, and was 19 when production wrapped on Civil War — immediately distinguishes him from the two actors who preceded him as Spider-Man, Tobey Maguire and Andrew Garfield, who were both in their late 20s when they were cast. They didn’t read as teenagers the way Holland does; they were adult men with boyish qualities, requiring some suspension of disbelief to accept that they were playing someone in high school. That’s not the case with Holland. He looks like someone who’s still maturing, which is important considering Spider-Man is the young, inexperienced new kid of the MCU.
With his face covered by Spider-Man’s mask during the big Civil War fight sequence, Holland must place even more emphasis on his body language. Spider-Man’s jittery physicality comes from a mix of excitement, nerves, and the gradual realization that he’s in way over his head, and his awkwardness is amplified when he’s surrounded by all these heroes who have been in the game long enough to have learned how to look cool while they fight. Spider-Man is the nerd who somehow ended up at the cool kids’ table in the cafeteria, and he doesn’t fit in.
Holland is still channeling Peter’s personality when Spider-Man first appears, but once the action breaks out, Peter’s apprehension gives way to determination to prove that Spider-Man has what it takes to fight alongside these heavy hitters. There’s a clear shift in how Holland carries himself, and the dynamics of his performance make the role of Peter Parker feel like a bigger part of the movie than it is.
Holland discovered he had landed the Spider-Man role when he saw Marvel’s official announcement on Instagram, which is one of his most valuable tools for self-promotion. In the months before Marvel made the official casting announcement on June 23, 2015, he had been posting stunt videos spotlighting the physical aptitude that made him a top candidate for Peter. His penchant for showing off on social media would become a major part of Spider-Man: Homecoming’s promotion, not just in terms of Holland’s gymnastics and parkour skills but also in terms of his dancing.
While filming Spider-Man: Homecoming, he instigated a stunt-off with his In the Heart of the Sea costar Chris Hemsworth, who was filming his own Marvel movie at the time, Thor: Ragnarok. Holland’s theatricality shines through in his stunt challenge video, in which he follows his stuntman’s instructions to perform a flip — but then jumps up from his crouched landing position and twists in the air before landing back on his feet. These are flourishes that the stuntman doesn’t include, and the extra details make for a showier performance.
A post shared by ✌️ (@tomholland2013) on Aug 27, 2016 at 6:16pm PDT
Dance doesn’t make its way into Holland’s personal Instagram very often, but he has occasionally appeared in the feed of Deja Carter, a choreographer who is close friends with Holland’s fellow Spider-Man: Homecoming cast member Zendaya. Last August, Carter posted two videos of herself dancing with Holland, one of which also featured Zendaya. Both videos went viral, and publicly reinforced the personal friendship between Holland and Zendaya that has been consistently mentioned in the Homecoming press cycle. (That rapport really shines through in Zendaya’s recent conversation with Holland for Interview.)
Holland is modest about his dance skills — “I can still do a couple pirouettes, but I am by no means a proper dancer,” he told the Hollywood Reporter last year — but Zendaya’s incredulous expression at the end of this Snapchat video in which Holland performs “a couple pirouettes” is the proper response to his claims. Holland is obviously talented, and Marvel and Sony have caught on to the fact that people respond especially well to videos showcasing his dancing prowess and have used those skills to fuel publicity for Spider-Man: Homecoming.
Those skills hit the national stage when Holland appeared on Lip Sync Battle with Zendaya in May, where he briefly channeled Gene Kelly in Singin’ in the Rain before performing Rihanna’s “Umbrella” in drag. The retro bit at the start is cute, but “Umbrella” is when the really impressive moves come out.
Holland hits the choreography with force and precision, and his performance is totally confident, with a playful swagger. He’s having so much fun, and he clearly delights in having the opportunity to show off his dancing ability. Holland’s dance training taught him how to bring theatricality to his movement and use it to inform his character, and now he’s following in the footsteps of action stars like the late Patrick Swayze and Channing Tatum, whose experience as dancers gave them wider range and better quality of movement.
Given that Spider-Man: Homecoming is aiming for a younger perspective than the usual Marvel fare with its focus on high school dynamics, it’s fitting that the studio would cast a lead who looks like a teenager and understands how to use social media to expand his profile. Holland’s charisma and physical prowess are invaluable for playing a charming, high-flying character like Spider-Man, whose face is completely covered when he’s in costume. The eyes are the only expressive part of his mask, but Holland has proven that he can use his body to enrich the hero’s personality. That has helped make Spider-Man an engaging addition to the MCU even though he’s only had about a half-hour of screen time so far, and it bodes very well for Peter Parker’s turn in the spotlight with Spider-Man: Homecoming.
Spider-Man: Homecoming hits theaters July 7.
For a long time, the question of Beyoncé and Jay-Z’s relationship was distinct from the question of their music. There were overlaps, but they were carefully contained, discrete. When one of them released a song about love and infidelity, we didn’t automatically assume they were singing about each other.
They might duet on a “Crazy in Love” here or a “Deja Vu” there, but when Beyoncé sent a man to the left, to the left in “Irreplaceable,” there was little public speculation over whether she was secretly singing about Jay-Z. She was clearly putting on a pop music persona, and few thought the song was autobiographical.
For years, their entire relationship was secret. They started dating in 2001 but didn’t go public until 2004, and they married in April 2008 and didn’t tell the public until that August.
Since then, slowly but surely, their marriage has crept into the conversation about their music. When Jay-Z released his new album 4:44 last week, the narrative that dominated the headlines was that with this album, he was apologizing to Beyoncé for the infidelity she famously and repeatedly alluded to on her 2016 album Lemonade.
So how do we get from a relationship so private that it’s kept secret for years to a relationship so public that it’s at the center of both participants’ latest albums? To understand how that transition happened, we have to look at how the gossip press covered the Knowles-Carter marriage — and how Beyoncé and Jay-Z responded.
Public speculation that Beyoncé and Jay-Z were dating began in 2002, when they collaborated on “’03 Bonnie and Clyde.” The song was a natural fit for Jay-Z’s player persona, but Beyoncé’s hook, a lyrical inverse of Tupac Shakur’s “Me and My Girlfriend,” which the track samples, was so generic that it could have been sung by practically anyone. There was almost no reason to bring Beyoncé into the mix if you didn’t want the press to start speculating wildly.
Nevertheless, both parties played coy in the press, a practice they would continue throughout their relationship.
“I never talk about my relationships,” Beyoncé told Essence in 2005. “I only talk about them in my songwriting; otherwise things get too messy.”
“I just think it’s really a part of your life that you gotta keep to yourself,” Jay-Z told Vibe in 2008, when asked why he’d kept his marriage to Beyoncé a secret. He added, “I shared so much of my life, my childhood, and my family, the death of my nephew with the world. I should have something to hold on to.”
It’s a revealing pair of quotes. Beyoncé, who is so wary of the press that she very rarely gives interviews, likes to keep the narrative about her relationships under her control: She decides how much to bring into her songs, and when, and how. Jay-Z, who tends to the personal in his songwriting, seems to prefer to keep his relationship entirely out of his public life: out of the press, and out of his songs. He claims to want to control the narrative by not giving out any access to it at all.
For the first few years of their relationship, the Carters followed the model Jay-Z laid out. While they were constantly photographed together, and their relationship was a fundamental part of their celebrity, it wasn’t something they used in their art. They spoke about each other in interviews rarely, and with the exception of a few collaborations and a tossed-off line here and there, they generally didn’t feature as characters in each other’s songs.
In her music, Beyoncé was an irresistible queen who was better than any man who might dare to approach her; in his music, Jay-Z was a carefree player. Their relationship and subsequent marriage didn’t match their musical personas, so they put it aside.
But in 2013, following the 2012 birth of Blue Ivy, things began to change. The Carters began to integrate their marriage into their musical personas. Beyoncé launched the Mrs. Carter Show world tour, explicitly making her marriage a central part of her musical persona. When she released Beyoncé later that year, Jay-Z was a major part of the story of the album.
“It takes me back to when me and my husband first meet,” Beyoncé said of “Partition,” “and he tries to scoop me and he thinks I'm the hottest thing in the world.” Jay-Z had a cameo in the video, in what director Jake Nava said was an attempt to "create and capture a bit of genuine intimacy” between husband and wife.
The two collaborated on Jay-Z’s “Part II (On the Run)” — a de facto sequel to “’03 Bonnie & Clyde” in which Beyoncé is now a full lyrical participant and character — and in 2014, they set off on a joint On the Run tour. The “On the Run” message is a tricky little paradox: It treats Jay-Z and Beyoncé as fugitives on the run from their own fame, creating a sanctuary through their romance, even as the actual Jay-Z and Beyoncé assiduously courted fame and recognition, and used their marriage as a particularly effective tool for reaching it.
“This is real life!” Jay-Z crowed during a live performance of “Part II” on the last night of the tour, prompting Beyoncé to drop her mic and mouth, “You made me laugh,” in mock rebuke. The moment rapidly went viral. “Too cute,” fans commented on the video.
It was an idealized, aspirational moment. They were selling a fantasy: Imagine being rich, famous, widely regarded as the best in the world at what you do, and being crazy in love with someone who checks all of those boxes and is just as in love with you.
But just as the Carter marriage was becoming a particularly effective tool in both members’ musical arsenals, the story of their marriage spiraled out of their control.
A month before the On the Run tour launched, in May 2014, Beyoncé’s sister Solange got into a fight with Jay-Z in the elevator following a Met Gala afterparty. The whole thing was caught on security cameras, and TMZ got hold of the footage and published it.
Related
Everyone involved kept quiet about the incident, but rumors rapidly circulated that Jay-Z had cheated, Solange knew it, and she was defending her big sister’s honor.
So as the Carters spent every night singing about how deeply they loved each other in front of adoring fans, divorce rumors swirled around them. One widely circulated blind item suggested that their marriage had always been a business arrangement, and Page Six wrote that “they are business people first, entertainers second. Husband and wife comes somewhere down the line.” Only “divine intervention” could save their marriage, another article concluded.
Almost as soon as the Carters began to integrate the story of their marriage into their music, the gossip industry took control of the narrative, and things got, as Beyoncé predicted back in 2005, “messy.” Beyoncé and Jay-Z both came out of it looking like shrewd, calculating liars. Their marriage stopped being good for their brands and started to hurt them instead. So Beyoncé took over the story, and she did it with her most potent weapon: her music.
During the On the Run tour, Beyoncé began obliquely referencing rumors of Jay-Z’s infidelity onstage. Performing her 2006 song “Resentment” — allegedly written about Jay-Z’s affair with Rihanna, although Beyoncé has always denied it — she tweaked the lyrics so that they appeared to apply more clearly to her current relationship with Jay-Z. “Been ridin' with you for six years” became “Been ridin' with you for 12 years.” The crowd at the On the Run tour went nuts.
And in 2016, Beyoncé released Lemonade. Lemonade tells the story of a woman whose husband betrays her, but whom she eventually, magnanimously forgives; in the accompanying visual album, the reconciliation songs are interspersed with soft-toned footage of Beyoncé and Jay-Z sweetly cuddling. “It could be about anyone’s marriage,” Beyoncé’s mother said, but the implication that the album was on at least one level specifically about the Carter marriage was hard to avoid.
The marriage that Lemonade depicted was fraught with betrayal and heartache and doubt — but it was anything but a business arrangement. Watching Beyoncé whisper, “Are you cheating on me?” it felt impossible to doubt that she was truly in love with her husband, and that what he’d done to her had been genuinely painful.
Addressing the infidelity rumors in her music gave Beyoncé control of the narrative again, and the story she spun was immensely compelling. She was no longer a cold-blooded businesswoman ruthlessly exploiting her marriage for professional gain and ready to escape as soon as it was convenient for her. No, now she was a regular woman, “not too perfect / to ever feel this worthless,” and her husband had callously hurt her.
Almost immediately, the narrative that the Carter marriage was a business arrangement slunk back into the darkest corners of the gossip industry. Lemonade convinced almost everyone that Beyoncé and Jay-Z were genuinely in love, and it also convinced almost everyone that Jay-Z had genuinely fucked up.
With 4:44, Jay-Z is following the example set by Beyoncé: As long as the Carters are singing about their relationship and its problems, we believe in them. We root for their marriage to succeed. We follow the revelations contained in every song breathlessly. We don’t accuse them of lying to us. Jay-Z may have had to apologize profusely to both Beyoncé and the rest of the world in 4:44, but at least the world believed in the marriage he was apologizing about.
When they turned the darker and more private aspects of their marriage into the subject of their music — a move they had steadfastly avoided for 15 years — Beyoncé and Jay-Z managed to kill the rumor that they were nothing but cold-hearted businesspeople in a marriage of convenience. And ironically, that turned out to be a fantastic business decision.
Hawaii Five-0 stars Daniel Dae Kim and Grace Park are leaving the CBS series after seven seasons, the result of a breakdown in contract negotiations. Both actors have starred in the 2010 reboot of the 1968 show since its premiere, but neither was able to reach an acceptable deal with the network to return for season eight.
When Variety first reported the news of Park’s and Kim’s departures on June 30, it was believed that CBS’s final offer to the actors was 10 to 15 percent lower than what their white co-stars Alex O’Loughlin and Scott Caan earn, and that Park and Kim, who both identify as Asian, were seeking salary parity. O’Loughlin and Caan also have back-end deals, which give them a cut of the show’s profits.
The exact details of Park’s and Kim’s final offers from CBS still aren’t clear. But on July 5, Kim seemed to confirm that CBS was unwilling to pay Park and him as much as it pays their white co-stars, with a heartfelt Facebook post addressing his decision to leave the show:
“By now many of you have heard the news, and I’m sad to say it is true. I will not be returning to Hawaii Five-0 when production starts next week,” Kim wrote. “Though I made myself available to come back, CBS and I weren’t able to agree to terms on a new contract, so I made the difficult choice not to continue.”
Kim went on to thank Hawaii Five-0’s crew, cast and fans, while acknowledging the importance of his role as an Asian actor on the show. “I know first-hand how difficult it is to find opportunities at all, let alone play a well developed, three dimensional character like Chin Ho,” Kim said. He also encouraged his followers “to look beyond the disappointment of this moment to the bigger picture,” noting that “the path to equality is rarely easy.”
Park has not publicly addressed her and Kim’s pay differences or salary negotiations, but CBS defended the offers it made to both actors in its own statement.
“Daniel and Grace have been important and valued members of Hawaii Five-0 for seven seasons,” the statement said. “We did not want to lose them and tried very hard to keep them with offers for large and significant salary increases.”
Meanwhile, Variety reported that despite the fact that Kim and Park were part of Hawaii Five-0’s central ensemble, CBS classifies their roles as supporting rather than lead, and that classification was a reason the two made less than O’Loughlin and Caan, who are billed as the show’s leads.
According to the Hollywood Reporter, which cited an unnamed source at CBS, those “large and significant salary increases” at one point included a raise for Kim that came within 2 percent of O’Loughlin’s and Caan’s earnings, though without a back-end profit-sharing deal.
As for Park, she was reportedly also offered a significant pay increase, but her negotiations were apparently complicated by her own desire to reduce her episode commitment and eventually be written out of the show.
On July 6, Hawaii Five-0 executive producer Peter Lenkov corroborated CBS’s statement in an Instagram post directed at the “H50 community,” in which he emphasized that it was Kim and Park’s decision to walk away.
“The truth is this: Both actors chose not to extend their contracts,” Lenkov wrote. “CBS was extremely generous and proactive in their renegotiation talks. So much so, the actors were getting unprecedented raises, but in the end they chose to move on. No one wanted to see them go — they are irreplaceable.”
#h50
A post shared by plenkov (@plenkov) on Jul 6, 2017 at 1:37pm PDT
The absence of Kim’s and Park’s characters, cousins Chin Ho Kelly and Kono Kalakaua, will be addressed in the season eight premiere, though there’s currently no word on how. Season seven ended with up-in-the-air storylines for both characters, with Kelly ready to head a task force in San Francisco while Kalakaua left her team without warning, boarding a flight to Carson City, Nevada, to investigate a child sex trafficking hub.
While the casting shake-up may sadden many Hawaii Five-0 fans considering Kim’s and Park’s prominent roles on the show, their decision to leave has sparked debate over Hollywood’s racial wage gap. Kim has been particularly outspoken about this issue, telling the New York Times last year, “The harsh reality of being an actor is that it’s hard to make a living, and that puts actors of color in a very difficult position.”
In 2015, a University of Southern California study found that only 3 to 4 percent of broadcast and cable scripted roles went to people of Asian descent and “at least half or more of all cinematic, television, or streaming stories fail to portray one speaking or named Asian or Asian American on screen.” Those sorts of details — whether a role is speaking or non-speaking, regular or recurring — have an impact on how much an actor earns.
Kim and Park both played highly visible series regular roles on Hawaii Five-0. And their departures — which will result in there being no major Asian or Pacific Islander characters on a show set in Hawaii — are a clear sign that Hollywood still has a long way to go in terms of upending its status quo.
Over the past decade, Spider-Man’s famous credo — “with great power comes great responsibility” — could very well apply to Sony, the studio that owns the film rights to Marvel’s web-slinging superhero.
Despite Spider-Man’s massive, multigenerational fan base, Sony has struggled to give the legendary character an equally legendary story on the big screen. Spider-Man (2002) and Spider-Man 2 (2004) were the makings of a solid franchise, but then 2007’s Spider-Man 3 seemed to cast a dark spell over the superhero’s cinematic legacy. Not only was the movie a sour end to a once-promising trilogy, but it was followed by an underwhelming, too-soon reboot in 2012’s The Amazing Spider-Man, an aggressively mediocre sequel to said reboot, and then a series of delays and uncertainty from the studio in response to that sequel’s disappointing box office haul.
The problem with the middling Spider-Man films is that they failed to make Peter Parker feel like Peter Parker. They either strayed too far from the spirit of the character, à la Spider-Man 3, or misunderstood it altogether, resulting in movies that felt hollow or inconsequential.
Rating
Patient Spider-Man fans have been waiting 10 years for a story that’s worthy of Spider-Man’s legacy — one that’s as much about the heart and soul of its hero as it is about slinging and swinging through the city sky. And with Spider-Man: Homecoming, which brings Marvel Studios back into the Spider-Man fold as a co-producer with Sony, that story is finally here.
The movie is a soaring, fearless teenage dream. And it feels so great to be able to say: Welcome home, Spidey.
Within the pop culture sphere, Spider-Man’s origin story has become an American superhero nativity scene of sorts. Even if you haven’t read any Spider-Man comics or seen any Spider-Man movies, you likely know that a radioactive spider bites Peter Parker, giving him superpowers — strength, the ability to cling to walls, a sixth sense, etc. — and that Peter’s beloved Uncle Ben dies because Peter didn’t stop a criminal when he had the chance. Except for Batman, whose story is rooted in the deaths of his parents, Thomas and Martha Wayne, there is no other superhero whose beginnings are as well-known as Peter Parker’s/Spider-Man’s.
It’s curious and savvy, then, that Spider-Man: Homecoming writer-director Jon Watts and co-writers Jonathan Goldstein, John Francis Daley, Christopher Ford, Chris McKenna, and Erik Sommers eschew all of those basic details.
We don’t see Peter Parker (Tom Holland) get bitten. There aren’t any references to Uncle Ben. We don’t even know the full extent of Peter’s powers; the limits of his strength, durability, “Spider-Sense,” and agility are never fully explained.
What Homecoming does show us is a Peter Parker who’s just an underappreciated high school sophomore with a superhero secret identity, and who’s itching to get back into action after taking on Captain America and the rest of the Avengers in last year’s Captain America: Civil War but can’t tell a soul about it.
Tweaking the tension that surrounds his protagonist allows Watts to delve into new territory with the character.
Instead of holding our breaths for that “Uncle Ben” moment, we get to experience and understand the conflict at Spider-Man’s core: having to balance all the anxieties and uncertainties of being a teen while also knowing the thrilling power of being a superhero.
Being a superhero is the one thing that makes Peter happy,  but it also eats up his time, interfering with his status on Midtown High’s Academic Decathlon team and fracturing his friendships.
He and his best friend Ned (Jacob Batalon) suddenly don’t have time to mess around with their Star Wars toys. It kills him that he can’t get Liz (Laura Harrier), the girl of his dreams, to notice him even though she’s in love with Spider-Man. And he’s always lying to his Aunt May (Marisa Tomei) about his “internship” at Stark Enterprises.
Tom Holland masterfully channels Peter’s teenage angst, which could easily come off as melodramatic or superficial, and infuses it with respect. Watts’s artful work makes you realize how often we don’t take teenagers’ anxieties, joys, and fears seriously. Peter’s life in Homecoming is a frustrating, jagged journey toward figuring out what kind of person he is.
Holland can be effortlessly likable; he proved as much in Civil War. What’s more impressive in Homecoming is how adept he is at doing the tougher stuff too. He flashes teenage stubbornness in defying Iron Man (and everyone who seems to know better). But he also sheds tears, and your heart hurts with him, giving Peter Parker an aching vulnerability that we don’t see in most superheroes.
This movie marks a big a moment for Holland, who, for the first time in his career, has to carry a gigantic blockbuster and does so handily. As Peter, he will remind you of your childhood best friend and, as the movie unfurls, become a hero to look up to. Quite simply, Homecoming proves that Holland is a star and the best Spider-Man we’ve seen onscreen.
The strange thing about Spider-Man’s “with great power…” catchphrase is that in the comic book, no one says it out loud (it’s also been slightly tweaked/abbreviated throughout the years). It appears in Amazing Fantasy No. 15, the very first Marvel comic book appearance of Peter Parker. In that comic, written by Stan Lee and drawn by artist Steve Ditko, the saying shows up on the last page, in a yellow box, long after their story has made it very clear that if Peter Parker had done his duty, his uncle would still be alive.
Homecoming keeps that tradition of not giving us a “catchphrase” moment, opting instead to show us what this idea looks like in practice.
We see Peter soar through the sky with all these gizmos in his new suit, and then completely bork the landing. We see him put people in danger because of teenage idiocy. He saves the day, often in thrilling, stunning fashion — but half the time, the reason he has to come to the rescue is that he caused a problem in the first place.
The balance of power and responsibility is not just present in Peter’s story, either.
Michael Keaton is chilling as Adrian Toomes, a struggling contractor who, in Homecoming’s world of gods and monsters, has found a way to carve out his own pocket of power. Keaton knows how to flash his own brand of sinister, sharpening the pricks in his voice and conveying heat in his eyes. But the compelling thing about Toomes is that, like a lot the very best comic villains, he’s impossibly human — if he’d had even one lucky break, it seems, he wouldn’t be on this path.
Toomes and Peter’s clashes are gorgeous flourishes of superhuman physics, power versus agility, speed versus brutality, and opposing worldviews: hardened jadedness versus restless optimism.
And Watts’s film is a visual treat; to be fair, many Marvel blockbusters are. But really, the magic is in the heart and soul given to Peter, to the villainous Toomes, and to Peter’s teenage spirit. Past Spider-Man films have failed to give us a Peter Parker worth rooting for, worth protecting, worth looking up to. But in Watts’s and Holland’s hands, for the first time in a decade, Spider-Man: Homecoming gives a version of everyone’s favorite neighborhood web slinger who feels as amazing as he was created to be.
Spider-Man: Homecoming is in theaters across the country on July 7. Screenings begin a night earlier.
The ever-growing glut of TV, movies, books, music, comics, and podcasts can be a lot to keep up with. So we here at Vox Culture — where our current obsessions include a new indie movie about a ghost, the legacy of A League of Their Own, and Calvin Harris’s perfect summer jams — have a few suggestions for how to make the best use of your pop culture–consuming time.
Here are nine things you should really consider checking out.

My Spotify Discover playlist keeps surprising me this summer with songs that immediately make me feel I’m lounging on a pool float, caftan wafting behind me — and almost every time, those songs have been produced by Calvin Harris. The DJ/producer/Taylor Swift ex has been quietly churning out some of the season’s best and catchiest jams, from the sizzling “Heatstroke” (featuring Pharrell, Young Thug, and Ariana Grande) to the smooth-as-hell “Slide” (featuring Migos and Frank Ocean). Throw these on your next barbecue playlist and thank me later. —Caroline Framke
Chance stopped by NPR’s Tiny Desk concert series this week to promote his Coloring Book tour and play some music, and while he was there, he shared some spontaneous poetry he wrote on the way over from his hotel. Listen to the completely charming 12-minute set to hear him treat the NPR Music offices to a rendition of “Juke Jam,” off his own album, as well as read a poem called “The Other Side,” get hilariously interrupted by an intercom, and drop a sterling cover of Stevie Wonder’s “They Won’t Go When I Go.” —Aja Romano
A League of Their Own is a classic. It’s the story of the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League in World War II, and the women who played baseball and killed it at the ballpark while the men’s teams were at war. It’s about sportsmanship and sisterhood and friendship and betrayal, and it boasts some of the most quotable lines in pop culture history (“There’s no crying in baseball!”). If you’ve never seen it, you should watch it. If you’ve already seen it, you should watch it again.
And then you should take a moment to delve into the wealth of content the internet created in honor of its 25th anniversary. ESPN has an oral history of the film, from pre-production to reception. The Ringer explains why it’s the best sports movie ever made. And Cosmopolitan delves into the deepest and darkest mystery of the whole story: Did Dottie drop the ball on purpose? —Constance Grady
It’s truly unfortunate that there won’t be any more new episodes of NBC’s The Carmichael Show once the currently airing third season (which the network has officially announced will be its last) concludes. There just aren’t many shows like it; the family sitcom is funny and bracingly honest, often taking on issues that most other TV shows wouldn’t touch, from gun violence to police brutality. But even though its subject matter is frequently serious, it never gets preachy — and will still make you laugh. Plus, with actors like Loretta Devine, David Alan Grier, Lil Rel Howery, and Tiffany Haddish rounding out the cast, the Carmichael family is just fun to hang out with. You can catch up with the show’s first two seasons on Hulu and Netflix, and the third season — which still has six episodes to go! — on Hulu and NBC.com. —CF
A Ghost Story is more folktale than horror story, a simple and strong evocation of grief and regret. Directed and written by David Lowery (Ain’t Them Bodies Saints, Pete’s Dragon), it was also one of the most acclaimed films at this year’s Sundance Film Festival. Rooney Mara and Casey Affleck (both of whom are reunited with Lowery here after starring in Ain’t Them Bodies Saints) play M and C, a couple living in a small house in what looks to be Texas.
One night they both bolt awake after hearing a crash on the keys of the piano in the living room. Nobody seems to be out there. Shortly thereafter, C dies in a car accident. And then something very unusual happens. To preserve the mystery, I’ll stop there, except to say that the movie goes nowhere you’d expect. Affleck is remarkably recognizable as an actor even when you can’t see him. And there’s a scene in which Mara eats pie that’s destined to become a classic. —Alissa Wilkinson
South Korean director Bong Joon-ho (Snowpiercer, Mother) took his considerable talents to Netflix for his latest film, a wild and inventive tale that manages to be both an anti-corporation sci-fi chase and a heartwarming story of the bond between a young girl and her superpig.
Related
With a stellar cast that includes Tilda Swinton, Paul Dano, Lily Collins, and Jake Gyllenhaal, as well as a commanding performance by young lead Ahn Seo-hyun, Okja is a genetically engineered antidote to this summer’s underwhelming popcorn cinema as well as Netflix’s first truly great big-budget film. If you prefer the multiplex over streaming, Okja is showing in a handful of theaters in New York and Los Angeles, but it’s just as captivating from the comfort of your own couch/chair/bed. —Grant Rindner
The origin story of Hey Violet may put you in mind of the Runaways. Or the Donnas. Or really any number of hard-edged all-teen-girl groups who unexpectedly kick ass. But where those earlier groups skewed more toward punk, Hey Violet’s new album, From the Outside, is straight up partly cloudy pop punk.
Every song courses with exactly the right blend of angsty teenage drama and perfectly chosen chord progressions. And that’s to say nothing of lyrics that will drag you right back to wondering when your crush would just turn around and look at you in study hall, lyrics like, “Still rocking your hoodie / and chewing on the strings / It makes me think about you / so I wear it when I sleep / I kept the broken zipper / the cigarette burns / Still rocking your hoodie / baby, even though it hurts.” —Todd VanDerWerff
In a freestyle with the Roots, Lin-Manuel Miranda announced the release of The Hamilton Instrumentals, a vocals-free version of the hit musical’s soundtrack that challenges faithful Hamilton fans to sing the show, or whatever else they want, over the show’s original backing instrumentals. If you’ve ever wanted to prove you truly know all the words to “My Shot,” now’s your chance. —AR
Watching James Garner on The Rockford Files, which ran from 1974 to 1980, is like having your dad come home from work late, his suit a little rumpled, and then he gives you a warm, wrinkly smile that says, “Hey, I’m just glad to be done with that bullshit for another day.” Oh, and for some reason, it’s 1975, because why not?
Few shows work so well as lighthearted summertime watches as Rockford, which was TV super-producer Stephen J. Cannell’s sardonic spin on the private eye genre. Cannell never met a cliché he didn’t love, but with Rockford he found a way to spin that tendency into gold. Now, thanks to Garner’s winking performance, he had a character who would roll his eyes at the clichés and include the audience in the fun as he cruised through 1970s Los Angeles, solving cases to make sure he could cover his rent.
Now that The Rockford Files is newly available on Blu-ray, you can appreciate the best American drama of its decade — and Garner’s finest performance — in crisp high definition. Don’t worry though. Even the sharp edges of the picture can’t wash away all the scuzzy grime of ’70s LA. Then again, why would you want to? —TV
The police thought Tamir Rice looked older than 12 years of age. This was the excuse — one of many — for a police officer firing his gun at Rice mere seconds after exiting his car. As the case unfolded, the fatal gap between Rice’s perceived and actual age was what continued to echo back to me.
Growing up, for those who are afforded the chance, is a fluid and always-functioning thing. Those who are not afforded the chance serve as a reminder to those of us still living: It is one thing to look grown, another to act grown. And — depending on how you move through the world — perhaps none of this holds any weight when the measure of how grown you look can dig you a grave, and how grown you act or refuse to act can dig a slow grave for others.
4:44, it seems, is the album of Jay-Z’s growing up — not expanding in size or scope, or taking on a new meaning in the canon, but wrestling with the emotional reckoning that comes with age, and how it never truly stops, even when you have sped past 40 and the half-century mark lies ahead, tapping its watch and waiting for you to come inside. With this growth comes a type of vulnerability, or at least the performance of it, and for Jay-Z, that means coming clean about how sad he is about all he’s done, and being celebrated for it — and that is perhaps the biggest luxury afforded to a star whose life has no shortage of luxuries.
No size or age dictates the rate at which we learn to turn away from our old mistakes, and clean ourselves up before making new ones. And so when I think about the platinum-plated response to the 47-year-old Jay Z’s 4:44, I also think about the 12-year-old Rice — how he was never afforded the mistakes that come with growing up, and the accolades that come with surviving them.
The punchline of every Jay-Z joke these days is that he’s old. It’s there, underneath the video of him squinting into Usher’s phone, not understanding Snapchat. It’s there in any number of photos of him looking exhausted and overwhelmed in public. Jay-Z has become more of a visual representation of old and comfortable wealth than anything else.
His last album before this one, 2013’s tedious and largely inaccessible Magna Carta Holy Grail, was distant and confused. It played out like a long commercial, but for no product except its own immense and boring opulence. Gone was the hustler-made-good narrative that made Jay-Z interesting even as late as 2007’s American Gangster. This was it. The hustler, it seems, made too good to even regale his audience with stories that we’d all understand as lies.
On 4:44 Jay-Z is hungry again, a rapper not as interested in competition as he is in widening his capacity to be both logical and emotionally aware — though both of these things come with a healthy dose of bitterness and frustration aimed at both friends and rivals. He is still praying to the God of endless wealth, but with an eye toward less disposable outcomes.
In a way, this growth makes sense. When Magna Carta Holy Grail was released, Jay-Z was still less than two years into being a father. The album’s frantic, detached nature sounded like someone trying to find themselves under the weight of redefinition. Now, in 2017, he’s seasoned: Blue Ivy is 5 years old, and Jay-Z and Beyoncé just had twins. His idea of what a legacy does (and doesn’t) rest on has shifted.
“A man that don’t take care his family can’t be rich,” he raps on the third verse of 4:44’s “Family Feud,” which features Beyoncé. On the same song, two verses earlier, he queries: “You’d rather be old rich me or new you?” This is Jay-Z, newer, older, wiser, but still rattled with contradictions about which cup of wealth he’d rather drink from.
There is, indeed, a lot to unravel about the album’s artistry, most notably the album’s producer, No I.D., acting as the album’s engine, rolling out a soundscape of reworked samples from decades past. The proper execution of a sample is a producer touching their hands to the forehead of a legend and bringing them to life inside of a space, even if they aren’t dead, and Jay-Z has done some of his best rapping when he isn’t the only legend in the room.
Related
On 4:44, Jay Z has the occasional issue keeping up with No I.D.’s frantic and delightfully claustrophobic beats, but he holds his own for the most part. On “Smile,” a surprisingly twisted sample of Stevie Wonder’s “Love’s In Need Of Love Today” shines in through the cracks of percussion. “Moonlight” reworks the Fugees song “Fugee-La” while Jay-Z laments “Y’all niggas still signin’ deals? Still? / After all they done stole, for real? / After what they done to our Lauryn Hill?”
Jay-Z has arguably done his best work around thoughtful sampling like this, like on 2001’s Blueprint, which was helmed, largely, by a young Kanye West. In that sense, No I.D. is the perfect vehicle for this project, and his work and inclusion on the album seem symbolic: Jay-Z is reaching back to the producer who mentored Kanye West, finding a revival inside the core of a relationship that was once productive but seems all but faded. Like the album’s narrative, the choice in producer can be read as a statement: a return to roots, looking to salvage something fresh from something crumbled.
4:44’s brilliant, well-crafted backbone is the glaring lighthouse illuminating Jay-Z’s striving toward growth and continued relevance — but it’s nothing compared to what hums underneath it.
Jay-Z is sorry and reflective throughout much of 4:44 — which sounds new, but isn’t entirely: On songs like “You Must Love Me” from 1997’s In My Lifetime Vol. 1, he laments the decisions he’s made and those he’s hurt. But songs like that felt brief and almost contractual, the gentle introspective song a rapper tacks onto an album steeped in tales of a hustler’s ambition. 4:44, in contrast, is sustained, nuanced vulnerability from an artist who, since returning from his brief retirement, has felt sometimes robotic, either avatar or walking advertisement.
I find comparisons to 4:44 and Beyoncé’s landmark Lemonade to be boring and uninspiring. However, the very public discussion about Lemonade’s brilliance and story put Jay-Z in a position where any album as shallow as his recent efforts just wouldn’t cut it. The work here doesn’t exist as a response to Lemonade, nor does it need to be pitted against Lemonade; but without the challenge of one album, the other doesn’t exist.
I think, then, about how the vulnerability of men is rewarded while the vulnerability of women — especially marginalized women — exists on a spectrum of “expected” to “outright punished.” I think about how I look at myself and how I, too, want to be vulnerable in the hopes that younger men and boys around me might also aspire to vulnerability. I do this knowing that I exist in a body where a task that should be common becomes cause for celebration, and even though I learned the roadmap to vulnerability (which I follow and stray from often) at the feet of others, mostly women.
I don’t want to dismiss Jay-Z’s many revelations. On 4:44, he oscillates between emotional openness and overwrought boasting that he attempts to have double as career and financial advice for younger rappers. The title track is lucid, Jay-Z the confessional poet. He opens with a line about how it took his daughter to be born for him to see through a woman’s eyes.
And isn’t that the way. The wreckage we crawl from unscathed, wondering what would our mothers think and knowing the answer, but continuing to create more wreckage regardless, until we become fathers of daughters — a trail of fully grown people needing to heal from whatever we placed on them while we were figuring out how to grow up.
Jay-Z is 47 years old, which is old in rap years, unquestionably, but not so old that he shouldn’t be allowed his moment of introspection and apology. I am trying — as a man who reflects and apologizes and will almost certainly continue to do so — to come to terms with this: celebrating an album that is his best in nearly a decade, and also considering the pain that made it possible.
It isn’t my work to forgive Jay-Z, and, truthfully, I have little stock in Jay-Z improving as a person. I am glad to hear an album in which he carved out a little space in his idolatry of wealth to also honor his mother, his wife, and his children. I am glad to hear him raw, vulnerable, and wrestling with uncomfortable truths and accountability, in the hopes that there are more men — at any age — inspired to do the same. But I can’t celebrate in the name of these things without thinking of how we are often celebrated for these things without also lifting up the people we’ve hurt on the never-ending journey to being slightly better than we once were.
Just five days before 4:44 dropped, Tamir Rice would have turned 15. He might have still been big for his age, or still have been imagined older than he actually was, as black children often are. Tamir Rice would have possibly been shot and killed even if the police officers knew he was 12, or he might have lived and listened to 4:44 in headphones while walking through the streets of Cleveland and imagining a world in which he could grow into a better version of the manhood that a world had ascribed to him — one where he could make mistakes and live to correct them and live to be better and live as free as possible while still seen as dangerous, at any size.
I don’t know what type of man Rice could have become, but when I think of 4:44, and the work it might be doing beyond anything musical, I think of the young men who might listen to it first as a cautionary tale: the album where the iconic hustler archetype turns back once more to deliver wise words before fading to black for good. I think of those it might inspire to consider vulnerability and openness in service of themselves and those they love first, and not whatever rewards are waiting at the end of the rainbow.
This is all a heavy charge to lay on a rap album, I know. But times are urgent when you are born a threat, always big enough to be dangerous to someone.
Kesha, the pop singer-songwriter who’s been in legal limbo for years, is officially back.
On July 6, she not only released the video for her contemplative new single “Praying,” but also announced that it’s the first song for an upcoming album, Rainbow, which will be released on August 11. It will be her first full-length album in five years.
Kesha has been locked in legal battles since 2014, when she and producer Dr. Luke first went to court; she accused him of sexual and emotional abuse, and he countersued for defamation and breach of contract. Kesha, locked into her contract with Dr. Luke’s label Kemosabe Records, was meanwhile unable to produce her own music elsewhere. In April of this year, it was reported that Dr. Luke was out as CEO of Kemosabe, and that parent company Sony planned to end its relationship with him entirely. According to reports, however, Rainbow is the third of five Kesha’s contractually obligated to produce under Kemosabe — and when Dr. Luke leaves Sony, Kesha has to go with him.
But for now, at least, Kesha’s got her Rainbow.
“This song is about coming to feel empathy for someone else even if they hurt you or scare you,” Kesha writes of “Praying” for Lenny Letter. “It's a song about learning to be proud of the person you are even during low moments when you feel alone. It's also about hoping everyone, even someone who hurt you, can heal.”
Right off the bat, Kesha wants you to know that “Praying” — not to mention Rainbow — isn’t going to be one of the dive bar party anthems she became known for after 2010’s “Tik Tok” launched her solo career. The video even opens with her in a coffin, and then on the surface of a lake, delivering a solemn monologue in which she wonders why she’s alive — “What is the lesson? What is the point?” — and whether or not some god “or whatever” is even listening.
The parallels to Lemonade — Beyoncé’s stunning visual album about a woman rebuilding after a betrayal — are undeniable. Even aside from the self-reflective spoken-word opening the song (which is not unsimilar to Beyoncé’s opening track “Pray You Catch Me”), Kesha’s wardrobe and affect are eerily similar at times. She stages her own funeral, walks across the water, and wears a ruffled rainbow dress like the yellow one Beyoncé twirls in throughout the Lemonade track “Hold Up.” At one point, she even strolls across the screen swinging a baseball bat.
That Kesha is so obviously trying to make her own Lemonade can make the “Praying” video feel a little strange and distracting, especially because this is song is clearly very personal for her; evoking Beyoncé’s imagery at the video’s onset dilutes the message, making it feel more like an homage than the emotional purge she says it is.
But once Kesha starts snarling that she hopes the person who hurt her is “somewhere praying,” that their “soul is changing,” both the song and video shift. She tears at her own face, runs through a psychedelic desert shrine, unleashes rainbow smoke into the sky, and wails her voice raw. As Kesha embraces her pain and rage, the song becomes something much more intense and weird and furious and hopeful — something that feels much more like Kesha herself.
Updated to include further details on Kesha’s contract with Kemosabe and Dr. Luke.
It’s been seven long years since LCD Soundsystem released their seminal third album This Is Happening; during that time, the band has only put out a few live records to satiate fans’ hunger. But new work is finally in sight: LCD recently announced that their next album, American Dream, will come out September 1 via Columbia and frontman James Murphy’s DFA Records.
Murphy hasn’t yet done much press for the new release, but given how much time has passed since LCD’s last album, not to mention the band’s rabid fan base, anticipation is already extremely high, and even the smallest details are enough to get excited about. Though more information about the 10-track album will surely trickle out once the band hits the road on tour this summer, here’s everything we know so far.
In May, LCD released a “double A-side” of American Dream’s title track, “American Dream,” and another song titled “Call the Police.” While those titles seem to imply a certain level of indignation about the current political landscape in the US, the two tracks are more subtle and impressionistic than outright protest fuel.
Murphy has always had a knack for making deeply personal heartfelt tunes that just so happen to be stadium-sized in their sonic scope, and that certainly seems to be the case with these two early releases.
“Oh, the revolution was here / That would set you free from those bourgeoisie,” he sings on the languid and hypnotic “American Dream,” which deals more with disillusionment over aging than anything explicitly Trumpian. “Find the place where you can be boring / Where you won't need to explain,” he advises later. The song is a somber and meditative reflection on what it feels like to age and gain a clearer understanding of one’s faults and flaws.
“Call the Police” is up-tempo and rebellious by comparison, with sweeping Americana guitars and driving drums that recall bands like The War on Drugs or The Suburbs-era Arcade Fire. It again broaches the topic of finding your place in society as your odometer ticks upwards, but there seems to be more political outrage here than on “American Dream.”
“The old guys are frightened and frightening to behold / The kids come out fighting and still doing what they're told,” sings Murphy, effectively offering a jaded sigh that lays blame both on those clinging to power and those not doing enough to bring about change.
He echoes that statement with a particularly impassioned verse later in the track:
Well, there's a full-blown rebellion but you're easy to confuseBy triggered kids and fakers and some questionable views Oh, call the cops, call the preachers! Before they let us and they lose When oh, we all start arguing the history of the Jews You got nothing left to lose
Though the other eight tracks could craft a different narrative, American Dream seems to be as much about the ills of our society as it is about finding a way to live within them.
The townhouse in New York City’s West Village that houses both DFA Records and its basement studio, Plantain Recording House, has been on sale since May 2016. All three previous LCD Soundsystem albums were recorded there in whole or in part, and Murphy has operated the space for nearly 20 years. (In addition to LCD, bands such as Hot Chip and Holy Ghost! have recorded in the space.)
This means that if simply buying a copy of American Dream isn’t enough for you, the space where it was made could also be yours for a mere $16 million.
If you live in or near a major American or European city, there’s a very good chance that LCD Soundsystem is playing at your house — or, more accurately, somewhere near it.
The band is set to embark on a gargantuan tour in September after finishing up a run of dates at the newly opened Brooklyn Steel in New York. In the meantime, they’re also hitting summer festivals all over the world, from Chicago (Pitchfork Music Festival) to Yuzawa, Japan (Fuji Rock Festival).
They finish up their 2017 road schedule with their third residency of the year at Brooklyn Steel, a new venue from East Coast concert-promotion giant The Bowery Presents. Their first run of shows at Brooklyn Steel in April, as well as the second run in late June, sold out extremely quickly, prompting Murphy to write on Facebook that fans should not be paying absurd prices to see the band live since they’re “going to be playing a lot in the near future…”
hi there again…

i really just wanted to say something about these new shows in brooklyn.  

last time we played...
Still, if you want to get a taste of the rest of American Dream before the fall, you might want to shell out for a ticket because...
During their recent shows, LCD has not only played “American Dream” and “Call the Police” but three more new cuts off their upcoming new album: “Change Yr Mind,” “Tonite,” and “Emotional Haircut.” According to Stereogum’s Ryan Leas, who attended one of the band’s Brooklyn shows, “Change Yr Mind” and “Tonite” are vintage LCD, mixing hypnotic electronic backdrops with fragmented blips of guitar, while the latter “finds LCD going much further in the post-punk direction than ever before.”
And with plenty of shows coming before the album’s September release, we expect Murphy and co. to debut at least a few other tracks from American Dream.
Based on all the info we have, LCD’s upcoming album figures to be an expansion of their frenetic, electronica-meets-garage-rock sound while dealing with Murphy’s aging and (subtly) addressing our chaotic political landscape. In short, it’s poised to be a much-needed dose of meticulously crafted, emotionally satisfying escapism with a few more sobering insights mixed in.
If forced to pinpoint the moment I became an evangelist for Zoo — CBS’s animal uprising drama that refuses to quit or make a single lick of sense — it’d have to be when Renegade Zoologist Jackson Oz slapped a man across the face and hissed, “Where’s the sloth?” in the hopes of finding a creature whose yawns sparked devastating earthquakes.
I’ll admit that I was primed to love Zoo, which began its third season on June 29, from the moment it premiered in 2015 — even if that was mostly thanks to James Wolk’s crinkly grin. Wolk plays the aforementioned renegade zoologist, who in season one was determined to end a series of mysterious animal attacks that seemed to hint toward a coordinated worldwide mutiny against humankind.
But somehow, the show’s first season was surprisingly boring. For a story about animals coming for humans in a global revolt involving both telepathic lions and kamikaze bats, Zoo lumbered along at an agonizingly slow pace. The series spent a long time trying way too hard to be cutting edge, therefore failing to realize what it is at heart: a ridiculous summer distraction that by all rights could be the TV equivalent of Jumanji, plus or minus a corporate conspiracy or two. As the season ended, the humans’ efforts to quell the animal rebellion had failed, leaving our trusty heroes staring down several safaris’ worth of bloodthirsty creatures.
In season two, however, Zoo fully unshackled itself from the James Patterson novel that season one was loosely based on, leaving it free to unleash unholy animal hell. Jackson and his merry band of incompetents — including a reporter named Jamie (Kristen Connolly) and an alleged genius named Mitch (Billy Burke) — embarked on a quest in an airplane roughly the size of a Bel-Air mansion to round up a veritable Noah’s Ark of mythical animals they could use to create a cure for the virus they’d determined was causing worldwide animal rage. They chased down the earthquake-yawning sloth, an ice-breathing komodo dragon, an immortal jellyfish, and for the grand finale, a goddamn prehistoric saber-toothed tiger.
Also, at some point along the way, Jackson’s mother revealed that she’d been injected with a mutant “ghost gene” by his father that eventually turned her into a bloodthirsty zombie, for inscrutable science purposes.
In its second season, Zoo was beautiful.
The show became so pitch-perfectly ridiculous that I started to get nervous that it couldn’t possibly sustain its new brand of accidental brilliance. Maybe this one season of television that hinged on bad CGI, wooden acting, and the occasional homicidal gorilla would go down in history as a brief blaze of glory in a TV world that so often takes itself far too seriously.
But Zoo didn’t disappoint. Season two ended in spectacularly dumb fashion, with the animals being cured of their virus just a nefarious new group of corporate madmen, “the Shepherds,” revealed their lab-grown hybrid razorback wolves (hand to God). Then, the Shepherds released a gas that sterilized the entire human race.
Flash forward 10(!) years, and here we are at the start of Zoo season three.
Lest you suspect me of exaggerating Zoo’s main plot for comedic effect, here is the arc of season three as literally described by CBS:
Ten years after the animals were cured but at the cost of sterilizing the human population, a new threat rises in the form of "the hybrids," an army of unstoppable lab-made creatures focused on destroying mankind.
Have you ever heard of anything so beautiful, so bizarre, so completely and perfectly stupid?
Perhaps you’re sitting there thinking that surely a show this messy can’t pull off Children of Men meets The Birds divided by whatever B movie might have been smart enough to star razorback hybrid wolves. On this point, let’s be clear: You are correct.
But Zoo’s inattention to detail and devotion to just fuckin’ going for it — whether “it” means a global sterilization crisis or death by electric ant  — is what makes the show one of the summer’s most purely entertaining distractions. And part of its appeal is that, if you want to dive in and see the madness for yourself, you frankly could do so at any point; even with all the context in the world, I promise you that Zoo is never going to make a whole lot of sense, anyway.
To give you a sense of what you’re missing, here are five new developments from Zoo’s season three premiere that really, truly happened, and will hopefully foreshadow a beautifully bonkers season to come. (You are welcome/I am truly sorry in advance.)
When the Zoo season three premiere (“No Place Like Home”) opens a full decade after we last saw everyone, Jackson and his latest blonde companion are trying to evade waves of hybrid wolves that have turned Portland, Oregon, into a ravaged wasteland. Thankfully, they have the help of several lions that Jackson has apparently tamed into doing his bidding.
When the scraggly pack — headed up by two males Jackson affectionately calls “Pedro” and “Samson” — lopes in, Jackson clicks a handheld device to keep them in line, and then orders them to attack the wolves so he can get some refugees to safety. After the threat has been neutralized and Jackson is fully available to flirt again, his new partner in crime purrs to him that she loves his “clickity click machine,” since she’s “lost track of how many times your lions have saved our heinies." Later, Jackson suggests to a curious child that the machine may, in fact, be connected to his mind — and he doesn’t appear to be kidding.
The whole scenario is ridiculous, she sure doesn’t sound like any human I’ve ever encountered, and that “clickity click machine” will almost definitely never be explained in a satisfactory way. The scene is Zoo to a tee, and as such, I will love it forever.
As it turns out, Mitch — a petulant man-child scientist who closed out season two by sacrificing himself to save the others — has been kept alive in a stasis tank “in eastern Siberia” for reasons yet unknown. My leading theory is that such a plot contrivance was the most convenient way to free Zoo from having to age Billy Burke an additional 10 years, along with the rest of its cast. (Though it’s not like anyone else is believably aged up, outside of a conservative wig or two.)
In the season three premiere, Mitch gets broken out of his tank by people who want information, but even though I’ve watched every episode of this dumb show, I still couldn’t tell what they’re after. So for now, please enjoy this picture of a Billy Burke dummy, bobbing serenely in a Siberian lab:
It says a lot that Zoo now boasts a pack of mind-controlled lions, and yet the thing I can’t stop thinking about is how Jamie — who in season one used to blog under the name “Girl with the Genie Tattoo” — has evolved beyond her scrappy independent journalist origin story to become a smirky billionaire with a penchant for sneaking out in the middle of the night to fight bad guys out of absolutely nowhere.
As my fellow Zoo enthusiast Brian Grubb of Uproxx has astutely observed, this basically makes her Batman, which is excellent news for those of us who like both superheroes and total nonsense. By day, Jamie is a corporate devil in a bobbed wig; by night, she’s an assassin in leather pants strangling patsy guards in pursuit of THE TRUTH. Countless superhero origin stories have started in similar fashion, so why not Zoo?
Maybe my favorite byproduct of Jamie’s transformation, however, is how it proves to be her downfall in the season three premiere, when she spends half the episode working to break into a secret science lab — only to immediately get caught because her phone’s ringer is on.
Herein lies one of the main tenets of Zoo: The show will tell us again and again and again how brilliant all of its characters are, but when push comes to shove, they are exactly as smart as the script requires them to be in a given moment, which is to say, not very.
At this point, Zoo’s season three premiere was perilously close to losing sight of the reason anyone watches this show, i.e., there are supernaturally furious animals on a rampage. So it wisely cut back to Jackson, who got one hell of a surprise when he discovered a brand-new hybrid so beautifully grotesque that I swear, it brought a grateful tear to my eye:
Just look at this majestic beast, in all its scaled, armored, tufted glory. It’s like something you’d encounter in a post-apocalyptic video game or an alternate-universe	 Game of Thrones fanfic — a combination that, come to think of it, is not actually a terrible way to describe Zoo.
I don’t even know what else to say about this stunning creature, some sort of prehistoric rhino hybrid that quite literally stunned me speechless when it appeared out of the blue to mow Jackson down. So I’ll simply sit back and let you treasure this moment in which Jackson almost gets trampled by it, narrowly escapes, and then grins at his lady love, “Spicy enough for ya?”
But as luck and Zoo would have it, there’s even more lunacy to this brand-new beast than meets the eye.
That utterance — delivered with grave horror by Jackson’s friend and sudden scientist Abraham once he receives the rhino’s blood by drone — is a direct quote, and I dare not try to improve upon it or speculate. In the world of Zoo, there’s just no way to know what’s coming next, which is exactly what’s made the series such an irresistible break from reality that (at least for now) is sorely lacking in magical sloths. May it reign o’er summer TV forever.
If you dare to immerse yourself in Zoo, the series airs Thursday nights at 10 pm on CBS. The season three premiere is available on CBS.com, and the first two seasons are streaming on Netflix.
When you think of the biggest summer moves of the past 15 years, the blockbuster franchises — your Fast & Furiouses or Pirates of the Caribbeans — naturally come to mind. But chances are the films that really resonate are the ones that did a little more to buck convention and subvert the typical expectations of the routine popcorn film.
A movie like Inglorious Basterds may not have spawned three sequels and a line of toys, or cleared $500 million in worldwide box office, but it’s generally remembered more fondly and concretely than much of the usual May-through-August (or, more accurately over the past few years, March-through-August) fodder.
On the latest episode of Vox critic at large Todd VanDerWerff’s podcast, I Think You’re Interesting, he invited BuzzFeed film critic Alison Willmore and Atlantic senior associate editor David Sims to discuss their five favorite summer movies that have come out since 2000, as well as the state of summer cinema in general, which has maybe never been more profitable or less exciting.
In a summer that has already seen several sequels, including Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales, Cars 3, and Transformers: The Last Knight, open to lukewarm reception — and with plenty more still to come — Willmore is frustrated that Hollywood’s current summer offerings amount to little more than cogs in the machine of franchise filmmaking.
“Two years ago we had a summer of movies that had a lot of blockbusters that were sequels, often, or franchise movies that I thought were great. And I thought, ‘You know what, maybe the fact that everything has to be based off existing intellectual property is not such a bad thing,” Willmore says. “‘There’s room within this [framework] to make a movie that feels pretty fresh and original.’ But this summer and the last summer basically crushed that out of me.”
For example, Willmore notes that while Marvel Studios has dominated the superhero movie market and developed a rigid aesthetic style (albeit one that occasionally causes friction with more dynamic filmmakers like one-time Ant-Man shepherd Edgar Wright), her favorite flick within the Marvel Cinematic Universe is the one she believes to be its strangest and most singular, 2014’s Guardians of the Galaxy.
“This is really the only [Marvel movie] that I’ve wholeheartedly loved, and I think that’s because it feels like it’s the work of one particular person in a way that most of the others do not,” she says. “So many of the others feel like they’ve been assembled —sometimes very skillfully — by a corporation, and I think that the dorky little jokes and bits of action that aren’t about saving the world but are just about escaping from prison are very well done.”
While VanDerWerff, Willmore, and Sims did achieve some consensus on the greatness of past summer films like Minority Report (2002), The Bourne Ultimatum (2007), and Mad Max: Fury Road (2015), each has his or her idiosyncratic favorites. For Sims, that includes 2006’s Miami Vice, starring Jamie Foxx and Colin Farrell.
“It’s a movie whose cult slowly grew but certainly; on release, it was basically dismissed as the apex of egotistical male Hollywood filmmaking,” says Sims. “It’s all nonsense. It’s a weird bubbling cauldron of crazy dialogue and people in suits just sort of looking around. I just think you’ll never see a summer blockbuster like that again.”
VanDerWerff’s list includes The Avengers, a movie that succeeds as an enthralling blockbuster, even though, as Sims points out, it laid “the building blocks of Hollywood’s destruction.” All three critics acknowledge the impact that The Avengers had on creating a template for summer cinema (especially within the Marvel Cinematic Universe), that has contributed to a collective sense of superhero and sequel fatigue.
“Certainly what it’s done to the film industry as a whole has been more bad than good,” VanDerWerff says. “But I think about some of the moments in the third act of this movie, when the characters are all finally fighting together and facing off against the scourge of aliens from space. There’s that shot of all of them standing in a circle and the camera pans around them, and it’s great, fun popcorn filmmaking.”
The trio agreed that summer cinema has largely become a slog of similar superhero flicks without the genre diversity of previous decades. To that end, they praised Pixar’s Wall-E as a surprisingly subversive mishmash of genres.
“We don’t question [Pixar] movies as summer blockbusters, but Wall-E is a movie about a robot in a post-apocalyptic hellscape. When Wall-E came out, I wasn’t as blown away as some other critics, but it’s grown in my estimation over time,” says VanDerWerff. “It was so easy to read it when it came out in 2008 as a critique of American excess, but now it feels a little more general as we sort of escape that era.”
In terms of the remaining summer 2017 release schedule, the trio is excited about Luc Besson’s ambitious, visually innovative Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets, though Sims says he can’t make sense of EuropaCorp’s decision to open it against Christopher Nolan’s new film.
Related
“It’s opening against Dunkirk, the only other original big-budget movie of the summer, practically,” Sims says. “When I saw that on the schedule, my jaw dropped. I was like, ‘We’re going to let these [original] movies essentially cannibalize themselves while the [sequel] movies are going to have whole weekends to themselves?’”
While Valerian and Dunkirk will draw similar crowds that could hurt their respective bottom lines, films like Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2, Spider-Man: Homecoming, and Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales do not have to battle any other wide releases with similar target demographics.
Still, perhaps the biggest change in blockbuster cinema is how seriously critics like VanDerWerff, Willmore, and Sims take their analysis of the summer slate.
“‘Popcorn movies’ implies a kind of frivolousness, but we take them so seriously that the idea of that as a kind of throwaway doesn’t feel like it necessarily applies anymore,” says Willmore.
Perhaps these elevated stakes are why we’ve seen less innovation and strangeness on the summer movie stage in recent years.
To hear more interviews with fascinating people from the world of arts and culture — from powerful showrunners to web series creators to documentary filmmakers — check out the I Think You’re Interesting archives.
A wrestling GIF posted to Reddit last week by an alt-right troll has become the focal point of mounting tensions between the president, the media, and internet-bred ideological extremism, which have since prompted the trending hashtag #CNNBlackmail and escalating right-wing backlash against CNN.
On Sunday, July 2, in the midst of ongoing clashes between Donald Trump and CNN, the president tweeted out a video in which he symbolically beats up the media outlet in a wrestling match. Since then, the president’s public battle with CNN has escalated into a debate over how to treat online trolls who spread racist and violent hate speech — a debate centered on what many perceive as a veiled threat by CNN to dox the creator of the original GIF behind the president’s tweet, who was a member of Reddit’s alt-right hub r/The_Donald. As a result, many, including Donald Trump Jr., are accusing CNN of bullying the GIF’s creator, while glossing over said creator’s history of hate speech on Reddit before he came under public scrutiny.
Related
It’s a heavy, complex social debate born of a GIF featuring a decade-old wrestling match — and as apt a metaphor as any for the state of political and social debate online in 2017. Here’s a look at how a seemingly harmless meme transformed into a cultural flashpoint.
#FraudNewsCNN #FNN pic.twitter.com/WYUnHjjUjg
The tweet in question, which was also retweeted from the official @POTUS Twitter account, shows edited footage of a staged 2007 WWE match in which Trump wrestles Vince McMahon. The video, which includes sound, is an edited version of a GIF that was posted to Reddit’s r/The_Donald community on June 28 by a user called HanAssholeSolo.
HanAssholeSolo, who has since deleted his account, claimed to have created the GIF and watermarked it; it’s not clear who edited the GIF into a video with sound, or how the video then found its way onto the president’s Twitter accounts. CNN reported that a senior White House official clarified the president did not source the video from Reddit, but the outlet noted that to date, no other public source for the Trump-versus-CNN footage has been located.
As many journalists quickly uncovered, HanAssholeSolo had a long track record of posting racist and violent speech to Reddit, including racial slurs, threats of violence against Muslims, and anti-Semitism. The tone of HanAssholeSolo’s comments is typical of the rhetoric found on The_Donald, which is one of Reddit’s largest communities and one of the internet’s primary mainstream hubs of support for Trump. It’s also notorious for its right-wing extremism, and has helped propel alt-right memes, multiple right-wing conspiracies, and ongoing distrust of the media into the mainstream conversation surrounding the president.
After Trump tweeted the GIF, CNN responded to what it deemed to be Trump’s incitement of “violence against reporters,” while Trump supporters, along with the White House, insisted the GIF itself was satirical and nonviolent, and could not be read as a threat toward CNN or the mainstream media at large.
Yet the fact that the GIF apparently originated from The_Donald, and specifically from a member of The_Donald who’s espoused a racist and violent ideology, prompted public debate over whether the president was promoting violence, however obliquely, with his tweet. Trump has previously tried to distance himself from the alt-right, but members of the movement interpreted the tweet as a show of support from the White House for their racist beliefs.
Using details from HanAssholeSolo’s Reddit account, CNN reporter Andrew Kaczynski tracked down the creator of the GIF in real life. However, the outlet made the decision not to reveal the person’s identity after he made an extensive apology on The_Donald in which he claimed he had grown addicted to trolling and that “This has been an extreme wake up call to always consider how others may think or feel about what is being said before clicking the submit button anywhere online”:
I would also like to apologize for the posts made that were racist, bigoted, and anti-semitic. I am in no way this kind of person, I love and accept people of all walks of life and have done so for my entire life. I am not the person that the media portrays me to be in real life, I was trolling and posting things to get a reaction from the subs on reddit and never meant any of the hateful things I said in those posts. I would never support any kind of violence or actions against others simply for what they believe in, their religion, or the lifestyle they choose to have. Nor would I carry out any violence against anyone based upon that or support anyone who did.
.... I do not advocate violence against the press and the meme I posted was in no way advocating that in any way, shape or form
.... So to the members of this community, the site, the media (especially CNN), and anyone offended by the posts, again I apologize. This is one individual that you will not see posting hurtful or hateful things in jest online.
The apology was generally embraced as a sincere one:
Our president has been out-classed by a guy who calls himself HanAssholeSolo. Happy Independence Day, everyone. https://t.co/XS4aIO9GxH
CNN video and Trump says nothing to express remorse as leader of our country. Great lesson for our kids from HanAssholeSolo, NOT Trump (2/2)
In response to the apology, CNN stated that while it was respecting HanAssholeSolo’s role as a private citizen, it “reserves the right to publish his identity” should it become clear that the apology he made was insincere:
CNN is not publishing "HanA**holeSolo's" name because he is a private citizen who has issued an extensive statement of apology, showed his remorse by saying he has taken down all his offending posts, and because he said he is not going to repeat this ugly behavior on social media again. In addition, he said his statement could serve as an example to others not to do the same.
CNN reserves the right to publish his identity should any of that change.
HannAssholeSolo’s apology has since been deleted by The_Donald moderators in apparent support of the idea that the apology was made under duress because CNN threatened to expose his real-life identity. This is a theme that has inflamed members of The_Donald, engulfed right-wing media like Breitbart, Infowars, and the Drudge Report, and prompted the hashtag #CNNBlackmail to trend on Twitter.
Read that red highlighted line. CNN basically extorting a private citizen for legal behavior. Don't make a gif or CNN will tell on you! https://t.co/41uxA9JGuv
A multi-billion dollar TV network blackmailing a private citizen into not making funny videos about it is not journalism, CNN. #CNNBlackmail
Many members of the media and the public have also been quick to decry CNN’s decision, while others have argued that ferreting out an anonymous internet user’s identity is not doxxing so much as investigative online journalism.
Most people call that investigative reporting. But sure you can call it doxing if you want... https://t.co/CZfpxJF4Ls
However, the threat of outing an anonymous person’s identity has long been seen as a form of harassment and intimidation; in fact, many CNN detractors on 4chan and other alt-right hubs responded to the perceived blackmail with a doxxing of their own, reportedly circulating a list of addresses for Kaczynski and members of his family, as well as for other CNN reporters. And on the (literal) Nazi website Daily Stormer, the notorious internet troll weev has reportedly threatened to expand the doxxing even further:
On Daily Stormer, weev writes that he’s going to doxx @CNN employees’ family members unless  it fires @KFILE pic.twitter.com/SKmq5LP7wC
Others have noted that members of the alt-right have been decidedly less concerned about doxxing when feminists are the ones being doxed, rather than racist Reddit trolls.
I am noting the rank hypocrisy of people who have spent years enjoying the doxxing of feminists online suddenly crying about fairness.
As the debate over CNN’s actions has escalated, HanAssholeSolo’s defenders have been quick to ignore or excuse the history of violent hate speech that ostensibly prompted CNN to try to identify him in the first place.
The most significant excuse in that regard is the emerging rumor that HanAssholeSolo is a 15-year-old boy. The rumor was apparently started by an anonymous 4chan user and has been repeatedly debunked by Kaczynski, who says he spoke with HanAssholeSolo over the phone and that he is an adult. Yet major alt-right influencers, including Donald Trump Jr., have circulated it.
Again. HanAssholeSolo is not 15 or anywhere close to it. This is POTUS' son spreading misinformation. pic.twitter.com/AB98NLn7nc
Several members of the media and other public figures have pointed out that “infantilizing” HanAssholeSolo allows his defenders to write off the many racist and violent things he’s previously said online by repeating the refuted claim that he’s just a boy.
Others have attempted to return to the original argument, which circulated before HanAssholeSolo’s violent Reddit comments surfaced, that the GIF was really just a juvenile meme and has nothing to do with the rest of his Reddit history. This thread has led to some serious derailment of the public discussion surrounding Trump’s original tweet, including a joke comparing CNN’s reaction to the wrestling GIF to the Holocaust, made by NRA spokesperson Dana Loesch.
As the outrage and inflammatory rhetoric continues to spiral outward, what’s getting lost in the backlash to CNN’s response is the initial reason for concern: that Donald Trump tweeted a meme with an apparent link to the alt-right. It’s a move that, no matter Trump’s intentions, suggests to members of the alt-right that the president supports their beliefs, and emboldens them to keep spreading those beliefs through the toxic discourse hiding behind seemingly frivolous memes.
Rob Kardashian appears to have posted revenge porn of his ex, Blac Chyna, on Instagram. The action was definitely a violation of Instagram’s community guidelines, and it may be illegal. And after Instagram appears to have deleted his account, Kardashian moved all of posts in question to Twitter.
On Wednesday morning, Kardashian posted what appears to be video of Chyna in bed with another man, images of Chyna’s nude breasts and genitalia, and video of her undergoing a medical procedure. (He has since deleted the nudes.) He has also posted multiple text posts in which he alleges that Chyna cheated on him and outlines all of the money he claims to have spent on her.
For her part, Chyna posted a response on Snapchat in which she alleged that Kardashian beat her.
California has long been ahead of the curve in legislating against “revenge porn,” or the practice of sharing nude or sexually explicit images of another person without their permission. That means Kardashian’s actions may have been illegal.
Rob Kardashian spent this morning posting naked pictures of his former fiancée. His state, CA, has laws against that https://t.co/mM2nQ1Dr69 pic.twitter.com/mXgXvtCeal
Kardashian and Chyna’s relationship has always been troubled. Famously, the extended Kardashian clan was against the pairing from the beginning, in part because Chyna has a child with the rapper Tyga, who is dating Kardashian’s little sister Kylie Jenner.
Related
Undeterred, the pair announced their engagement in April of 2016 and had a child, Dream, in November. Rumors of a breakup swirled around the two every few months. In December, hackers leaked what appeared to be texts from Chyna’s phone disparaging Kardashian as “lazy and fat” and declaring her intention to leave Kardashian with Dream. Hours later, Kardashian took to Snapchat and Instagram with photos and videos of his empty house, claiming that Chyna left him and took Dream with her. Chyna denied it, and a few days later they were once again posting happy family pictures on social media.
This February, multiple sources reported that Kardashian and Chyna had separated for good, and that they were enmeshed in an “ugly” custody battle. They continued to post amicably on their social media accounts and denied rumors that they were with other people, but on July 2, Chyna wrote in a now-deleted Instagram post, “Single. I’m happy.”
In his Wednesday Instagram spree, Kardashian claimed that Chyna sexted him a picture of her genitalia, and then later the same day sent him a video that showed her in bed with another man. “I’m a savage I always have been and I always will be and I don’t give a fuck,” he posted.
“Rob u did all this but u beat me up and try act it never happen!!!!!” Chyna responded on Snapchat.
The whole thing might seem unbearably frivolous and unimportant, revolving as it does around Kardashians, a scorned celebrity lover, and social media. But revenge porn is an increasingly common crime (Facebook reported 51,000 claims of revenge porn this January alone), and it deserves to be taken seriously. It’s a way of humiliating women for the crime of having bodies that are sometimes naked, and since the internet is forever, it can destroy lives permanently. “Every time I met with a client,” says one revenge porn victim, “I wondered if they had seen me naked.”
And while a number of states have legislated against revenge porn, the laws are patchy and often inconsistently enforced. “This is a case they put at the bottom of the stack,” said one lawyer of police officers faced with revenge porn cases. “They think that the victim was asking for it because they created the content that got them into the situation. They think they’re not as deserving of police hours as someone who was the victim of a physical assault.”
Chyna has a history of showing off her body on the internet, but she’s always done it on her own terms. By posting what appear to be Chyna’s nudes on his Instagram without her permission, Kardashian is taking away her control over her body and whom she chooses to show it to. That’s a serious crime, and it deserves to be treated as such.
Updated to note that Kardashian’s Instagram account has been deleted and that he moved all of the posts in question to Twitter.
A sprightly, creepily cheery woman strides across the screen. She’s wearing a fantastical blond blunt-cut wig and has braces on her teeth. She’s Lucy Mirando, she tells us, with an indefatigable grin. (She’s Tilda Swinton, of course.) She’s the new CEO of Mirando Corporation, a pharmachemical giant that’s in need of a serious image revamp after committing some light atrocities against mankind. And in this corporate video, she’s going to unveil her plan to achieve that revamp: a global superpig breeding contest.
It’s a lot to take in, but it makes for an intoxicating start to Okja, the latest bonkers satire from director Bong Joon-ho. In his past work, which includes movies like Snowpiercer and The Host, Bong has proven that he can put his imagination to splendidly zany use and deliver biting social critique at the same time. Okja is his latest example of this approach — and this time, it comes with the addition of a giant, lovable pig-hippo-puppy hybrid. The film is a wild ride, and definitely one worth taking.
Rating
Okja was already controversial before it premiered: Along with its fellow Netflix release The Meyerowitz Stories, it was selected to play in competition at the prestigious Cannes Film Festival. But because of arcane French laws that restrict a film from coming to streaming services until 36 months after its theatrical release, Netflix didn’t plan a French theatrical release for either film. French theater owners protested Cannes’s selection of the two films, and the resulting arguments and policy changes became the controversy of the festival, which revealed a rift between different ways of thinking about the theatrical experience.
But the film itself was warmly received (even with a botched first press screening). It’s hard not to love it. Okja’s unusual introduction to the world was oddly fitting for a film that’s every bit as weird — and on the whole, every bit as wonderful — as you’d expect from Bong, especially in a screenplay co-written with Frank screenwriter Jon Ronson.
The film starts in 2007, when Swinton’s Lucy Mirando — who is succeeding her sister Nancy as Mirando Corporation’s CEO — has come up with the idea of sending 26 “superpiglets,” bred from a happy and unusually excellent pig discovered at a farm in Chile, to farmers around the globe. The idea, we’re told, is that each superpiglet will be bred according to local farming practices, and in 10 years they’ll be judged in a globally broadcast contest helmed by the new face of Mirando Corporation, television personality Dr. Johnny Wilcox (a sweaty and unhinged Jake Gyllenhaal, pitching his voice into every register imaginable).
Then we jump forward to 2017. One of the superpiglets, named Okja, has been living a happy life with the farming family who raised her in the mountains of Korea. Her favorite person in the world is Mija (Ahn Seo-Hyun), an orphan living with her grandfather (Byun Hee-Bong). Mija was only 4 when Okja joined the family, and the pair grew up together frolicking in the woods, each the other’s caretaker.
But now the time for the competition has come. The Mirando representatives arrive on the mountain, where Dr. Johnny proclaims Okja the best of the superpigs. As preparations are being made to transport Okja to the unveiling in New York City, Mija becomes determined to keep that from happening.
The story unfolds from there, combining madcap chase scenes and wry (but savage) corporate satire with touches borrowed from torture horror and dropping them into a story about factory farming. There are ostensibly peaceful ecoterrorists, too, in the form of the cleverly named ALF (Animal Liberation Front), a group led by a very sincere young man named Jay (Paul Dano). The ALF tries to outsmart Mirando’s cadre of suits — especially Lucy and her chief henchman (Giancarlo Esposito) — and everything gets wildly out of hand.
And so it should. Bong’s great skill as a director is soulful social satire, juxtaposing the absurd with surprisingly touching moments that help his films retain the kind of humanism that is sometimes absent in satirical works. In Okja there are psychopaths, for sure, but there are also people for whom practical concerns get in the way of ideals: Dr. Johnny is a self-proclaimed “animal lover” who finds himself in bed with big farming, and Jay can’t quite keep his crew of idealistic activists loyal to their total no-harm stance.
Okja isn’t perfect; it falls down when the bizarre and the serious ricochet back and forth between scenes, making it hard to track the film’s tone. But that’s easily forgivable, because Okja is a big, ambitious movie, and when it works, it is ridiculously fun.
Okja extends a more standard anti–factory farming argument in order to skewer the absurd ways in which corporations co-opt the language of environmental and localist movements to reel in consumers. The result is kind of a master class in how vocabulary can be leveraged for insidious ends. Words like “natural!” and “eco-friendly!” are splashed across the screen behind Lucy Mirando as she announces the superpig competition. And the idea of having local farmers raise superpiglets is, of course, a handy way to camouflage what’s really going on at Mirando Corporation (which is headquartered in Paramus, New Jersey, of all places).
If factory farming is an ugly product of the corporatization of American culture, so is the twisting of activist movements — from environmentalism to feminism to political ideologies — into corporate lingo, and the cynical transformation of noble ideals into sales slogans. And Bong cleverly broadens his approach to this idea by showing how it affects cultures far beyond the borders of the US.
That this market critique comes from a movie so closely tied to Netflix, which often comes in for economic and corporate critique both at film festivals and in the broader marketplace, makes it more than a little ironic. And there’s plenty about the company that’s concerning to people who care about both the business and the aesthetics of cinema.
But Okja is also a rare breed of movie: It boasts a multi-hemispheric setting and cast, the extended use of two languages, and the distinction of combining action, arthouse filmmaking, and political satire in one funny, biting, disturbing, and often kind of adorable package. Would traditional studios, with their proclivity for blandly appealing blockbuster fare, even have the guts to gamble on a film like Okja?
Okja releases in limited theaters and on Netflix on June 28.
Every weekend, we pick a movie you can stream that dovetails with current events. Old, new, blockbuster, arthouse: They’re all fair game. What you can count on is a weekend watch that sheds new light on the week that was. The movie of the week for July 1 to 7 is Independence Day (1996), which is available to digitally rent on Amazon, Vudu, iTunes, and Google Play. The movie will also play on several TV channels in celebration of its titular holiday, including E!, which will air an all-day marathon on July 4.
Independence Day didn’t become the quintessential movie to watch over the July 4 holiday in the US purely because of its title (though that certainly didn’t hurt). It was, on many levels, a groundbreaking film of its own — in the most American of ways.
The term “blockbuster” became an established part of the Hollywood vernacular in 1975, when the exciting, record-setting Jaws destroyed box office records and delighted people so much that they returned to the theater to see the film again and again. The term had popped up in Hollywood before Jaws — but after Jaws, it came to define a new genre: that of the big-budget, action-packed film with wide appeal intended to rake in serious moolah in ticket sales.
The decades that followed ushered in a string of big-budget studio movies that would become iconic summer blockbusters, including the original Star Wars films (which were all released in May) and E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial (which came out in June). Before long, making summer blockbusters had become standard practice Hollywood. And nearly 20 years after Jaws, in 1993, Jurassic Park became the latest iteration, taking its place as the highest-grossing film of all time.
But Jurassic Park’s record wouldn’t go long before meeting a challenger. In January 1996, people watching Superbowl XXX found themselves watching an ad for a movie that wouldn’t arrive in theaters for almost six more months: an alien-invasion film called Independence Day, which would debut on July 3.
In the movie, which takes place over the Fourth of July, unnerving, unexplainable phenomena begin to appear all over the globe. The truth becomes impossible to ignore: Earth is under attack. And it’s up to a motley band of Americans, including a satellite technician (Jeff Goldblum), a Marine pilot (Will Smith), a former combat pilot (Randy Quaid), and the American president (Bill Pullman) to save the world.
That Super Bowl commercial cost Fox $1.3 million — and it was only the beginning of a massive, months-long ad campaign aimed at maximizing box office revenue for Independence Day.
In the months that followed, Fox cut a promo deal with Apple, and scenes from the film in which Goldblum’s character uses a PowerBook appeared in Apple’s advertising. Tie-in toys were created, and Coors and Coca-Cola cut product placement deals. Teaser trailers and taglines like “Don’t make plans for August” blanketed the public consciousness. The Clinton family enjoyed an early screening at the White House.
Finally, the weekend before Independence Day’s release, a half-hour special about the film aired on Fox, including what you might call a “fake news” report on the film’s alien invasion premise.
And all of these efforts paid off, beyond almost anyone’s wildest dreams. With more than $817.4 million in ticket sales worldwide, Independence Day became the highest-grossing film of the year, beating out movies like Twister and Mission: Impossible to nab the spot. It was briefly the second highest-grossing film of all time until The Lost World: Jurassic Park came out in 1997, and came very close to surpassing Jurassic Park’s opening week record.
In some theaters, Independence Day opened on July 2, both because that’s the date when the film’s events begin and because anticipation from moviegoers was so high. The movie won tenuous praise from critics — more for nailing the blockbuster genre than for cinematic craft — and raves from audiences. It was ultimately nominated for two Oscars, and won for Best Visual Effects; its soundtrack won a Grammy. And Fox sunk another $30 million into a marketing campaign for the movie’s eventual VHS release, which coincided with Thanksgiving.
All of this marketing success put studios on notice. Independence Day began the now time-honored tradition of kicking off the marketing campaigns for big-budget movies with an expensive Super Bowl ad slot. It also kicked off a wave of interest in big-budget science fiction movies, with film studios hoping to capitalize on the surge with titles like Men in Black (1997) and Armageddon (1998).
Independence Day is more product than movie, which isn’t really a strike against it: Like an amusement park thrill ride or a skydiving expedition, the experience of watching it is more about adrenaline and excitement than the artistic qualities of the movie itself. The catharsis of seeing the world destroyed (and then seeing the American president save it) was just right for its moment — when just enough optimism still reigned and computer animation was new enough that the images felt new and invigorating rather than dark and foreboding — and people loved it.
Movies like Independence Day partly succeeded because people could see the movie with their friends or family in the theater and talk about it at work, or over the backyard grill. It was cool and awesome and fun, and that’s all it needed to be.
Related
And, like any good product, the success of Independence Day was a function of its then-pioneering marketing push, which set a template for future big-budget films. Today, selling your film to audiences isn’t just about cutting a good trailer and running it on TV during NFL games, and maybe getting a toy into Happy Meals. It’s about teaser campaigns and cross-promotion and stealth marketing and post-credits scenes that make people want to see the sequel that hasn’t even been shot yet.
All that money, all that marketing, all that big-budget spectacle: It’s quintessentially American, and quintessentially Hollywood. Love it or hate it, that’s the world that Jaws built and Independence Day made inescapable.
The golden age of the blockbuster seems to have ended here in the US; last year, the abysmal Independence Day: Resurgence flopped at the domestic box office. But the blockbuster is still alive and well in big markets like China, where movies like Alien: Covenant or The Mummy — both of which crashed and burned in America — do just fine.
So it turns out that in a post-Independence Day world, the next big step in the evolution of the Hollywood blockbuster was to export it for global consumption. How very American.
Watch the trailer for Independence Day:
The greatest advice book ever published was written by Marjorie Hillis, the editor of Vogue circa 1936. It’s called Live Alone and Like It, and it’s addressed to what was then a new social category, emerging in the aftermath of the Great Depression: bachelor ladies, or “the liver-aloners” — women who live on their own, without husbands or parents (but maybe don’t like it).
Sternly dismissing any attempts at self-pity — “Anyone who pities herself for more than a month on end is a weak sister and likely to become a public nuisance besides” — Hillis guides her readers through how to cope with life on their own. And while some of her advice is specific to the '30s (the topics she covers include bed jackets and boarding houses), a lot of it holds true today.
Below, I’ve collected my favorite pearls of Hillis’s wisdom. Some of it’s very 1936, some of it’s very 2017, but all of it sounds like what your favorite glamorous, well-traveled, hard-drinking aunt would tell you to do.
You’re living alone because you’ll show them, you’ll show them all, yes? Especially your enemies? You are glamorous enough to have enemies, aren’t you?
When you start to live alone, defiance is not a bad quality to have handy. There will be moments when you’ll need it, especially if you’ve been somebody’s petted darling in the past. But you will soon find that independence, more truthfully than virtue, is its own reward. It gives you a grand feeling. Standing on your own feet is extraordinarily exhilarating, and being able to do very well (when it’s necessary) without your friends, relatives, and beaux, not mention your enemies, makes you feel surprisingly benign towards all of them.
As illustrated in two cases. First, the case of Miss MacD.:
For several years, she lived in an inexpensive boarding-house in Detroit, slipping in and out unobtrusively and growing more and more convinced that life was a very lonely business. Then through a series of coincidences she discovered that several girls in the firm where she worked earned even less than she did and got around no more. This cheered Miss MacD. immensely, just as it would cheer you.
Secure in the knowledge that she is not the saddest person she knows, Miss MacD. gets her own apartment, invites everyone she pities to dinner, and develops a crowd of friends.
Then there’s the case of Miss P., who pours all her money into her beautiful apartment and has none left for entertaining. Faced with an old frenemy who's in town for a visit, Miss P. wisely diagnoses herself with a noncontagious illness, takes to her bed, and invites her frenemy over for tea:
When the guest arrived, she was ushered into Miss P.’s bedroom, in which the late afternoon sun filtered through white Venetian blinds and fell upon a bowl of roses on a low mirrored table. Miss P. herself, perfectly groomed, was propped against pillows, wearing an opalescent white satin nightgown with Alençon lace and a shell-pink velvet bed-jacket. The blanket cover on her bed was shell-pink, too, with strips of lace. … When the guest left, practically wilted with envy, Miss P. reflected that the total expenditure had been two dollars for the maid, one dollar for the roses, and a very little extra for the tea.
Hillis knows the secret to life, and it is playing elaborate mind games to make sure that other people envy you as much as possible.
How else will you convince the world that you are a fascinating person?
You will probably have to muffle both door-bell and telephone if you can put yourself over as a gay, interesting, and up-to-date person. Anyone can, if she has sufficient determination. You can’t sit at home and wait for these qualities to descend upon you like a light from Heaven, but you can acquire them by means of a little serious concentration on friends, hobbies, parties, books, and almost anything else that keeps you interested. … But you’ve got to have variety. … Every woman should have a smattering of knowledge about practically everything.
Even a charitable hobby, gauche as it may be.
Be a Communist, a stamp collector, or a Ladies’ Aid worker if you must, but for heaven’s sake, be something.
And preferably you should have two:
You should have at least one that keeps you busy at home and another that takes you out. Just dabbling in them isn’t enough, either. They will not be really efficacious until you’re the kind of enthusiast who will stay home to follow the first type in spite of a grand invitation, or go out and follow the second in spite of wind, sleet, or rain.
If they think you're lonely, how will you show them, show them all?
You can build up quite a coterie if you take enough trouble, mix your friends intelligently, and show a little shrewdness as to when to invite them, and what for. Include as few relatives as possible in one group, on the principle that it’s infinitely better for a Lone Female to offend her relatives by not inviting them enough, then to bore her relatives by inviting them too often. In other words, it’s better to be a snob than a hanger-on.
BRB, off to buy hostess pajamas.
There are … sleeping pajamas, beach pajamas, lounging pajamas, and hostess pajamas. The first two are not designed to wear when receiving anybody, masculine or feminine. The last type is correct for wear when your most conservative beau calls, even though he belongs to the old school and winces when a lady smokes. The third variety comes in all sorts of shadings, from an almost-sleeping type to a practically hostess pajama. Those with a leaning towards the bed are suitable only for feminine guests, while the others would not shock Bishop Manning.
(If you’re wondering, my best guess as to whom Hillis refers to as Bishop Manning is William T. Manning, the Episcopalian bishop, philanthropist, and noted hater of dancing. His views on pajamas are unrecorded.)
Have you ever seen a bed jacket? It’s basically a bathrobe with the bottom part cut off. It’s the dowdiest piece of clothing you’ll ever see. Hillis loves them.
Don’t think that four bed-jackets are too many. … A warm comfortable one for every-day use and a warm grand one for special occasions. A sheer cool one for summer mornings, and a lacy affair to dress up in.
Hillis was on top of the "purge all your stuff" school of thought way before it was trendy.
The Great Temptation — well, anyway, one of them — to most people living alone is to have too much furniture and too many what-nots. We’ve been in lots of feminine establishments from which you might have taken half the furnishings and given them to the nearest Thrift Shop — and achieved as much as if you’d called in a decorator.
Trust Hillis. She knows.
When you wake up in the night convinced that you hear a man moving about in the next room, do not get up and investigate. Still more important, do not telephone the janitor, or a friend’s husband across the street, or your brother in New Jersey. Almost certainly, there is no man in the next room, and, if there were, he would be gone by the time anyone got there.
Good advice for everything.
Bargains in liquor, like bargains in clothes, are only for Those Who Know. While you are still learning, never buy anything but the best. (This is not a bad rule to stick to through life.)
You just have to pick the right booze! Like Miss C.:
As Miss C. cannot go in for cocktails, without ice, she has made a specialty of sherry, hunting up the best and keeping several variations on hand. The glüg, a delicious Swedish drink, hot and powerful, she keeps for guests who look upon sherry as effeminate.
There are no instructions on what to do about preparing food without a kitchen.
Hillis informs us that “[i]t is probably true that most people have more fun in bed than anywhere else, and we are not being vulgar.” So obviously bed is the best place to eat.
Very well, then, have your orange-juice and black coffee and toast. … Our plea is merely for plenty of orange-juice, coffee, and toast; really good orange-juice, coffee, and toast; and orange-juice, coffee, and toast attractively served. Of course, the civilized place for any woman to have breakfast is in bed.
Hillis preferred whisky.
We are not advising you to save [money] for any good and moral reason, but merely because, as time goes on, spending your own money has a kick in it, like whisky, while having other people’s money spent on you has, at best, the tame pleasure of a glass of lemonade.
Consider the example set by Mrs. de W., the widowed workaholic who spent her retirement focusing all her Type A energies on rejuvenating her body:
She has her breakfast in bed, late, leisurely, and comfortably. She lets nothing crowd out her regular weekly appointments for a shampoo, a scalp treatment, a wave, a facial, and a manicure. Two mornings a week, she spends in a health salon. … And on nights when she is very tired she has a masseuse come and give her a long, soothing massage. … At a tea recently, she entertained the guests by standing on her head. Mrs. de W. is having an elegant time.
The term “procedural,” when it was first coined, meant a crime drama that focused heavily on the procedure behind solving a crime. For a recent example, just think of CSI, where every episode delved into the science involved in analyzing evidence found at crime scenes.
But because the word “procedural” came to be so heavily associated with the CSIs of the world, it separated from its original meaning somewhere in the mid-2000s and came to mean “any show where there’s a case of the week and relatively self-contained episodes.” House was a “medical procedural,” for instance, and even a show like Castle, which typically solved a crime each week but had little interest in the science and procedure of crime-solving, came to be known as one.
Rating
And yet that original definition of procedural is the best one to apply to FX’s new series Snowfall, a deliberate, dense, heavily serialized drama about the rise of crack in early ‘80s Los Angeles. There’s nothing this show loves more than showing viewers the process as it chronicles the origins of various systems that sprung up to move drugs through South and Central America up into American cities.
The series hails from director John Singleton (the man behind Boyz n the Hood, the Shaft remake, and some of the best hours of TV of the past few years), along with several of the people who made FX’s earlier, terrific crime drama Justified, another show fascinated with the processes and systems propping up the sorts of communities not often seen on TV. (Justified was centered on rural Kentucky.)
Snowfall isn’t as good as Justified just yet, but it’s also almost immediately its own thing. Watching its first season, I found myself frustrated by the show’s insistence on taking its time, but also lured in by it. It’s not instantly great TV, but it’s instantly confident TV, and that counts for a lot.
In its fascination with the people caught up in the midst of global systems that don’t particularly care whether they live or die, Snowfall recalls the work of Michael Mann, director of films like The Insider, The Last of the Mohicans, and Miami Vice. (Mann also created the distinctive visual style of the original TV version of Miami Vice.)
Mann’s work is best known for its gleaming surfaces and cool detachment. His films often position the director as a god gazing down upon his creations, chuckling at their attempts to live out their days. Snowfall doesn’t really ape his visual style. It’s firmly rooted in the perspective of those on the ground, looking up to see the giant foot that’s coming to squash them and hoping they have time to roll out of the way.
But the series does share some of Mann’s thematic preoccupations. Everybody in Snowfall is complicit in building a horrible, multi-armed monster that will eventually devour many lives whole. But because they’re all only focused on their one particular arm, they don’t dare spend much time trying to suss out the full picture. That willful blindness to the big picture — the desire to pretend what you’re doing has nothing to do with all those people dying over there — is straight out of Mann’s playbook, as are all of the brooding men furrowing their brows over the weight of so much crime.
The result is that Snowfall, like Mann’s films, moves very slowly. I’ve seen the entire first season, and it’s clear that the show is in no hurry to get to the part where crack has become an epidemic across American cities, and all of the characters are forced to cope with what they’ve done. Season one is concerned only with the early days of the drug, and Snowfall relies heavily on the audience to fill in the dark trajectory of where things are going. It takes a long time for one of the characters in the show to first utter the word “crack” in relation to the drug. As in, it doesn’t even happen in the first episode. Or in the second episode. Or even in the fourth episode. (You get the idea.)
That deliberate quality is fine when the show focuses on its more interesting characters, especially teenager Franklin Saint (Damson Idris), who falls into the life of a drug dealer almost too easily, and Lucia Villanueva (Emily Rios of Breaking Bad and The Bridge), the daughter of a crime boss who’s determined to stake her own claim to the family business.
It can feel trying when it gets mired in its third parallel story, about the CIA’s involvement in the drug trade, focused on troubled agent Teddy McDonald (Carter Hudson), who seems to embody every crime story cliché out there, right down to the family he wishes he could devote himself to if his work would just stop getting in the way.
The biggest obstacle Snowfall faces in becoming everything it could be is that it marries its very deliberate pacing to characters who feel like placeholders that the show is planning to fill in later.
The series isn’t just about Franklin, Lucia, and Teddy — though they’re all leads, given roughly equal weight. It’s also about all of the people around them, and since direct interactions between their three storylines are relatively thin in Snowfall’s early going, the show clearly feels the need to sketch in very broad strokes for most of the first season, only offering the slightest shades of character depth deep into the run. (Trust me, though: That depth shows up eventually.)
Thus, Snowfall will try your patience in many different ways, with perhaps too few payoffs to truly be “worth it.” And yet I found myself becoming more and more engaged with every new hour of the show. To understand why, you have to look at another source Snowfall cribs from, a show that seemingly has nothing in common with it.
The advice that most of TV seems to have gleaned from HBO’s Game of Thrones, perhaps the defining hit of the 2010s, is that killing off lots of characters is good, and if you can make those deaths unexpected, that’s even better. But the more TV indulges in these sorts of deaths, the more the trope curdles into something exhausting.
Snowfall has its share of character deaths, but they’re presented not as the show’s reason for existence but as a natural offshoot of its setting. What it’s taken from Game of Thrones is the notion that people will watch a show about a big, sprawling world if you give all of the characters a connection to that world and plenty of opportunities for the actions of one character to ripple outward to a completely different character in a completely different setting. (This recalls another drug-focused drama, Breaking Bad, though that earlier series’ world was more contained than Snowfall’s.) Snowfall keeps its three protagonists mostly separate, but it also offers ample opportunities to see how they’re all approaching the same problems and the same systems from different angles.
This allows the show to travel to other countries and to the California desert and to seemingly every neighborhood of Los Angeles, without ever feeling like it’s spread too thin. And where Game of Thrones ties its episodes together via theme — in that it often suggests characters in wildly disparate locations are dealing with some of the same issues — Snowfall ties its episodes together via massive criminal enterprises. Its obsession with procedure turns each episode into a pipeline: What Teddy does here has an unexpected outcome with Franklin over there, and so on.
It’s not the most immediately engaging way to tell stories, and Snowfall is still very much a work in progress. The series is plagued with thin characters and narrative dead ends, and I was very much on the fence about it until the last few hours of the season. (This might evoke some of the problems Netflix has with its own first seasons, but where Netflix series are too focused on serialized sweep, Snowfall has almost exactly the opposite problem. The granularity of its episodes and their intense focus on process and procedure means the big picture gets a little lost until the very end.)
But it makes excellent use of a storytelling method that it clearly grows more comfortable with as the season progresses, as well as a host of Southern California locations. There’s something compulsively watchable about it, and I expect it to be a big hit, if only because it’s telling a story unlike any other on TV.
FX has become known for its prowess at making great television, but people rarely talk about how good the network is at course-correcting, at figuring out what works about a troubled show and zeroing in on that. Snowfall doesn’t get all the way there in season one, but it comes further than you’d expect. And inside its veins runs something vital and alive and different — at once indebted to its inspirations and ready to find a way to transcend them. I don’t love it yet, but I suspect that given enough time, I will.
Snowfall debuts Wednesday, July 5, at 10 pm Eastern on FX.
It’s hard to believe, but true: 2017 is already half over.
The most prestigious films of the year usually come out in the fall in an attempt to make a run at the Oscars. But this year has already yielded a bumper crop of great movies, including three excellent superhero films, a bunch of horror films with a message on their mind, several riveting and unconventional documentaries, a few revenge flicks, some of the year’s best comedies, and a movie about a giant superpig.
Not all of the movies played in theaters; not all of them are to everyone’s taste. In fact, it’s hard to imagine a more eclectic list. What they have in common is their ability to surprise and confound and even infuriate the audience.
Here are the 17 best movies of 2017 so far, how you can watch them, and why you should.
Release date: May 10
What makes it great: Manifesto stars the marvelous Cate Blanchett as 13 different characters — something she could probably pull off in her sleep — but there’s no real narrative. More avant-garde art installation than film (in fact, before premiering at the Sundance Film Festival in January, it was an art installation), Manifesto rewards the patient viewer with a mysterious, artful, often funny reflection on the swagger, idealism, and ironies that arise when artists talk about their own work. The lines Blanchett speaks are taken from artist manifestos that informed the 20th century, with all but a snippet of Marx and Engels’s written by the artists themselves.
Plenty of the manifestos in Manifesto would sound pretty pompous if you closed your eyes and just listened. But recited by Blanchett, performing as a puppeteer or a drunken punk in a dive bar, they become slightly ironic.
How to watch it: Manifesto is currently playing in limited theaters and will move to Amazon Prime later this year.
Release date: February 24
What makes it great: I Don’t Feel at Home in This World Anymore is the strangely titled but delightfully unpredictable story of a depressed loner frustrated with the world — “everyone is an asshole!” she says early on, in a fit of anger — who gets wrapped up in a strange, elaborate, and gory heist plot, entirely by accident, after her house is robbed. She makes unexpected friends with a neighbor (Elijah Wood) who has a penchant for ninja weapons (nunchucks, ninja stars, you get the idea), and the pair find themselves in the center of something far crazier than they expected.
The movie isn’t making fun of anyone, but it knows exactly how absurd humans are, and it uses tiny details — a woman’s obsession with nut milks, a man’s rat tail — to pull together a kooky cast of characters who aren’t stereotypical. It helps that star Melanie Lynskey and Wood have impeccable comic timing, and the film is often very funny.
I Don’t Feel at Home in This World Anymore doesn’t go anywhere you would expect — but it doesn’t want to. It feels like a Southern Gothic tale in which someone’s finger might get snapped or a hand blown off, eliciting both gasps and giggles. Granted, it’s more violent than anything the iconic Southern Gothic author Flannery O’Connor ever wrote, but there are hints of O’Connor in the story: the flashes of goodness in the midst of bad, and the affection for characters who are difficult to love.
How to watch it: I Don’t Feel at Home in This World Anymore. is streaming on Netflix.
Release date: March 3
What makes it great: Logan is the best X-Men movie since 2003, and very likely the final film in which Hugh Jackman will play Wolverine, a character he's been portraying onscreen for 17 years. Burned out, weary of life, but still burdened with a self-healing body, Logan (that is, Wolverine) has been tending to a periodically senile Professor Charles Xavier (Patrick Stewart), who has trouble controlling his powers. The pair find themselves on the run with a young mutant named Laura (Dafne Keen), whose profound connection to Logan has deep implications for everyone's futures.
Logan skillfully draws on a cinematic language that’s half post-apocalyptic, half classic Western, to great effect. Concentrating more on characters than big bang-up stunt scenes, Logan is the kind of comic book movie even the pickiest cinephile can love.
How to watch it: Logan is available on DVD and Blu-Ray, which also include the black-and-white “Noir” cut of the film.
Release date: April 7
What makes it great: Colossal actively defies categorization. Sometimes the movie (which stars Anne Hathaway as a burned-out alcoholic) is a romantic comedy; sometimes it’s something much darker. And sometimes — quite unexpectedly — it’s a monster movie, with actual, city-flattening monsters. All of those components mashed together make for an oddly entertaining, refreshingly original movie.
But it’s not just entertaining: Colossal is about how complicated addiction can be, and about the ways our relationships and our histories can make healing messy. Sometimes the people we think are our friends turn out to be monsters. And sometimes we’re the monster.
How to watch it: Colossal is slated for digital release on iTunes and Google Play on July 18, and on DVD and Blu-ray on August 1.
Release date: March 10
What makes it great: It’s an eerie, meditative ghost story that glides between worlds, from high fashion and wealth to the search for the supernatural. In her second collaboration with French director Olivier Assayas, Kristen Stewart plays a personal shopper to a wealthy socialite and, on the side, an amateur ghost hunter who's searching for her dead twin brother.
Personal Shopper isn’t to everyone's taste (it was booed at Cannes), but it’s deeper than it seems at first blush, a meditation on grief and an exploration of society’s “between” places — on the fringes of wealth, and in the space between life and death. It also has one of the most tense, extended text-messaging scenes ever seen onscreen.
How to watch it: Personal Shopper is slated for digital release on iTunes, Google Play, and Vudu on July 10.
Release date: April 7
What makes it great: Graduation is an intense Romanian drama about the thorny ethics of giving your children the best opportunities. Director Cristian Mungiu (4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days) tells the story of a law-abiding man named Romeo (Adrian Titieni) who finds that bureaucracy and his desire for his daughter to go to a good college lead him down a path he never expected to tread.
A long, deliberate, slow-burning satire, Graduation is both infuriating and pessimistic, but always intriguing. The shift in Romeo’s outlook is subtle, but as we watch him change, the film becomes something like a quieter, more understated Breaking Bad, with all the same moral weight.
How to watch it: Graduation is awaiting a US home-video release date.
Release date: April 28
What makes it great: Hardly a conventional documentary, Casting JonBenet is a moving look at how and why we respond to sensationalized crime in deeply personal ways. The decades-old case of the 6-year-old beauty queen found murdered in her family’s home on Christmas night in 1996 is a popular subject for filmmakers looking to capitalize on the current taste for true-crime documentaries and docudramas. But the focus of Casting JonBenet isn’t the crime itself, it's the people of Boulder, Colorado, where the murder took place.
Director Kitty Green put out a casting call in the Boulder area, inviting people to audition for any role in the Ramsey case. Once they arrived on her set, Green explained that the casting material would be used in the film — that anything they said on camera during the auditions might end up in the final cut, so they should be careful about what they say. Most of the film comes from these audition tapes. Casting JonBenet makes the case that the way we think and talk about sensationalized crime cases is deeply influenced by our own experiences — and it calls into question the possibility of ever arriving at something like the truth.
How to watch it: Casting JonBenet is streaming on Netflix.
Release date: June 2
What makes it great: The record-smashing Wonder Woman is popular for a reason: Not only does it tell the origin story of a beloved superhero, but it does so with aplomb, feminism, and good humor that has both critics and audiences cheering.
The film’s director, Patty Jenkins, took the story of Diana (played by an ass-kickingly awesome Gal Gadot), an Amazonian woman who becomes part of the effort to stop World War I after a pilot (Chris Pine) crashes on her island, and infused it with a vitality that hasn't been seen in a superhero movie in a long time. The result is pure joy — a visually beautiful, often very funny film with a heroine who is more interested in saving the world than smashing up cities.
How to watch it: Wonder Woman is currently playing in theaters.
Release date: May 12
What makes it great: Risk is a frustrating and complicated film about a frustrating and complicated subject: Julian Assange, founder of WikiLeaks. And that’s exactly the film it needs to be — and exactly what makes director Laura Poitras a perfect match for her subject. As with Poitras’s Citizenfour, a twisty, feature-length interview with Edward Snowden, Risk plays more as a character study of Assange than a straightforward, informative look at WikiLeaks.
After seven years in production, the film arrives at a time when WikiLeaks, once embraced by the left, has gone through a strange shift, with some accusing it of influencing the 2016 US presidential elections — or at least being okay with helping authoritarian leaders, especially in Russia. As such, many viewers will approach the film with preconceived ideas about WikiLeaks — and Risk won’t make the matter any simpler.
But instead of fitting the story into any familiar political narrative about WikiLeaks, Poitras presents an uncomfortable look at the complicated interplay of Assange’s personal goals, the goals of his organization, his ego, and the then-outstanding sexual assault allegations against him in Sweden — all of which contribute to a sometimes admiring, sometimes infuriating portrait. Risk does anything but lionize Assange, but it doesn’t try to take Assange down, either. It’s frustrating and absolutely necessary.
How to watch it: Risk is available to digitally rent or purchase from Amazon, iTunes, and Vudu. The film will also air on Showtime on July 22 and be available to stream from the Showtime app starting July 23.
Release date: June 28
What makes it great: It’s a bonkers corporate satire starring Tilda Swinton, a brave little Korean girl, and a giant superpig. ‘Nough said.
Need more? Fine. Okja is a rare breed of movie: It boasts a multi-hemispheric setting and cast, extended use of two languages (Korean and English), and the distinction of combining action, arthouse, and political satire in one funny, biting, disturbing, often kind of adorable package. The movie ruffled some feathers (and resulted in a policy change) as part of a Netflix controversy at the prestigious Cannes Film Festival this year, and it will probably ruffle a few more as it becomes more widely available, since the film is every bit as weird — and, on the whole, as wonderful — as you’d expect from Bong Joon-Ho, the director of Snowpiercer and The Host.
At its core, Okja is a movie about the horrors of factory farming, and sometimes it turns into a horror film to make its case. But it’s also skewering the absurd ways in which corporations co-opt the language of environmental and localist movements to reel in consumers. The result is kind of a masterclass in how vocabulary can be twisted for insidious ends.
How to watch it: Okja is in limited theaters in the US and streaming on Netflix.
Release date: June 23
What makes it great: The Beguiled masquerades as a Southern Gothic tale, with all the requisite grotesquerie and a killer cast that includes Nicole Kidman, Kirsten Dunst, Elle Fanning, and Colin Farrell. But beneath its frilly, corseted bodice, it’s a stone-cold revenge fantasy, a potent cocktail laced with toxic comedy and pungent desire.
The film is set at Miss Martha Farnsworth’s Seminary for Young Ladies, upon which a Union soldier stumbles after having been wounded in battle. He discovers it to be a hotbed of sublimated desire and good breeding, which you might think sounds like good luck. You'd be wrong.
The film’s fixation on revenge means it feels considerably tighter and simpler than its marketing might have led you to believe. This isn’t the wild, extravagant romp of director Sofia Coppola’s Marie Antoinette, nor does it lean so plainly on the hormonal teenage angst of The Virgin Suicides. Simple, irresistible desire is what drives revenge movies — desire for retribution, inexorably enacted.
How to watch it: The Beguiled is currently playing in theaters.
Release date: April 14
What makes it great: This is technically a biographical film about Emily Dickinson, but it transcends its genre to become something more like poetry. A Quiet Passion is a perplexing and challenging film, crafted without the traditional guardrails that guide most biographical movies — dates, times, major accomplishments, etc. Time slips away in the film almost imperceptibly, and the narrative arc doesn’t yield easily to the viewer.
Cynthia Nixon plays Emily Dickinson, whose poetry and life is a perfect match for the signature style of director Terence Davies: rich in detail, deeply enigmatic, and weighed down with a kind of sparkling, joy-tinged sorrow. A Quiet Passion is a portrait (both visually and narratively) of the kind of saint most modern people can understand: one who is certain of her uncertainty, and longing to walk the right path.
How to watch it: A Quiet Passion arrives on DVD, Blu-Ray, Amazon, Google Play, and iTunes on July 11.
Release date: June 23
What makes it great: It’s hard to imagine seeing a more charming movie in 2017 than The Big Sick, which hits all the right romantic comedy notes with one unusual distinction: It feels like real life.
That’s probably because The Big Sick is written by real-life married couple Emily V. Gordon and Silicon Valley's Kumail Nanjiani, and based on their real-life romance. The Big Sick — which stars Nanjiani as a version of himself, alongside Zoe Kazan as Emily — is funny and sweet while not backing away from matters that romantic comedies don’t usually touch on, like serious illness, struggles in long-term marriages, and religion. As it tells the couple’s story, which takes a serious turn when Emily falls ill with a mysterious infection and her parents (played by Holly Hunter and Ray Romano) come to town, it becomes a funny and wise story about real love.
How to watch it: The Big Sick is currently playing in theaters. It will eventually be available on Amazon.
Release date: June 28
What makes it great: Part heist movie, part jukebox musical, Baby Driver is a 100 percent satisfying action-comedy from Edgar Wright, a director known for playful but reverent genre filmmaking. Though it boasts a crack ensemble that includes Jamie Foxx, Kevin Spacey, Lily James, and an excellent, menacing Jon Hamm, the movie turns on Ansel Elgort’s charismatic performance as Baby, a getaway car driver who lives his life under headphones in order to drown out the ringing in his ears, a souvenir from a traumatic childhood car crash.
From that contrived-seeming premise, Wright builds an action-comedy like no other, one that cannily uses its omnipresent soundtrack to narrative, thematic, and stylistic ends. Baby Driver is a stealth movie musical, choreographing its vehicular mayhem like dancers in Busby Berkeley production, but beyond that, it’s the sort of singular and wildly entertaining genre movie that’s all too rare at the multiplex.
How to watch it: Baby Driver is currently playing in theaters.
Release date: February 3
What makes it great: This stunning documentary was directed by Raoul Peck, but it was written by writer and social critic James Baldwin — who died 30 years ago, in 1987. But this isn’t a documentary about James Baldwin, though it certainly is about him.
All of the film’s narration (by Samuel L. Jackson) was written by Baldwin, mostly drawn from letters and notes he made toward a novel called Remember This House that was never published, as well as other books and essays. By pulling together Baldwin’s own words with footage — both images he would have known well and clips of Baldwin himself, talking with interviewers, politely tearing them to shreds — I Am Not Your Negro becomes a document of a country by way of a keen observer and unsparing thinker. It is a cinematic essay-memoir, and a vital, uncomfortable one.
How to watch it: I Am Not Your Negro is streaming on Amazon Prime and available to digitally rent or purchase on Amazon, iTunes, Vudu, and Google Play. It’s also available to purchase on DVD or Blu-Ray.
Release date: April 21
What makes it great: This is a stately, elegant epic paced like an elegy. Based on David Grann’s 2010 book about explorer Percy Fawcett, The Lost City of Z feels like a movie from an earlier era.
The film follows Fawcett's travels in South America over his lifetime as he hunts for a rumored city, painting him as a hero who feels earthbound by his ancestors and longs for something greater, some experience that defies definition, to discover something beyond what his own civilization has managed to produce. It is a dreamlike film that feels like a bittersweet lament, a wish that man could know the world more fully in the time he’s allotted. In the end, Percy Fawcett is the manifestation of a powerful, universal idea: that we humans can only find ourselves by losing ourselves to something much bigger than us.
How to watch it: The Lost City of Z is available to digitally rent on Amazon, iTunes, and Google Play. The DVD and Blu-Ray are slated for release on July 11.
Release date: February 24
What makes it great: Racism is scary. But Get Out (written and directed by Key & Peele's Jordan Peele) isn’t about the blatantly, obviously scary kind of racism — burning crosses and lynchings and snarling hate. Instead, it’s interested showing how the parts of racism that try to be aggressively unscary are just as horrifying, and it’s interested in making us feel that horror in a visceral, bodily way. In the tradition of the best classic social thrillers, Get Out takes a topic that is often approached cerebrally — casual racism — and turns it into something you feel in your tummy. And it does it with a wicked sense of humor.
How to watch it: Get Out is still playing in limited theaters. It is also available to digitally rent or buy from Amazon, iTunes, Google Play, and Vudu, and the Blu-Ray and DVD are available to purchase or rent.
Honorable mentions: The Lego Batman Movie, The Lovers, The Reagan Show, Restless Creature: Wendy Whelan, Obit, and Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2.
Over the weekend, Donald Trump tweeted an inflammatory GIF of himself symbolically beating up CNN.
On its face, the the tweet appeared to many to be a humorous jibe — just the latest shot in Trump’s ongoing war with CNN and the news media in general, and another attention-grabbing tweet from a man who’s become known for them:
#FraudNewsCNN #FNN pic.twitter.com/WYUnHjjUjg
But it quickly spawned outrage from many progressives, politicians, and media outlets — including CNN itself, which issued a statement noting, “It is a sad day when the President of the United States encourages violence against reporters.”
And while Twitter and the White House both defended the tweet against such claims, things took a turn once the source of the GIF was discovered to be a Reddit forum known for Islamophobia, racism, and frequently violent hate speech.
In that context, the tweet takes on a new meaning, one that has little to do with whether it was explicitly threatening, or what Trump’s intentions were in posting it.
Trump has long targeted CNN in his general war on the news media, famously labeling CNN “fake news” and frequently bashing the network in speeches and on Twitter. But his ire for the network seems to have hit a fever pitch in the wake of CNN’s recent retraction of a story related to the FBI’s ongoing investigation of the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia, and debate over the president’s relationship to the news media as a whole and to CNN in particular has been frequent on both sides of the aisle.
That’s the atmosphere into which Reddit user HanAssholeSolo released the original GIF version of the clip in the president’s tweet, posting it to Reddit’s largest alt-right community, r/The_Donald, on Wednesday, June 28; he would later claim to have edited and watermarked the GIF himself.
The_Donald is a huge and hugely controversial part of Reddit that exploded in popularity over the course of 2016, as Trump’s presidential campaign gained momentum. At one point, right-wing extremism within The_Donald was so intense that it caused the forum to fracture, before growing even more popular and solidifying its position as Reddit’s main alt-right hub. A New York Times profile of the subreddit published in November called it “one of the most influential communities within one of the most significant websites on the internet”; the Times characterized it as “home to copious Islamophobia, trolling of liberals and near constant bashing of Hillary Clinton.”
The_Donald has also been a major conduit for alt-right fringe conspiracies like Pizzagate and other rumors to find their way into the mainstream. And despite the prevalence of racism and extremism present within the forum, Trump’s campaign staff have said that they monitored The_Donald and other alt-right communities on Reddit and elsewhere throughout the election.
Initially, HanAssholeSolo’s post attracted typical reactions from other forum members and gained no further attention. GIFs like this one, in which one or more “characters” are labeled in a way that transforms the action of a GIF into allegory, are common meme parlance. And there is no shortage of anti-CNN GIFs floating around The_Donald.
However, at some point in the four days after HanAssholeSolo’s original post, someone modified HanAssholeSolo’s GIF by adding audio and converting it to a video format. And that’s when it apparently found its way into the hands of the president, who tweeted it.
“Congratulations /u/HanAssholeSolo, your dankery has been tweeted by the President of the United States,” ran the most popular response to the original GIF thread.
“Wow!! I never expected my meme to be retweeted by the God Emporer [sic] himself!!!” HanAssholeSolo responded, while the rest of r/The_Donald waxed gleeful about their moment in the spotlight. The official r/The_Donald Twitter account celebrated by posting additional GIFs of Trump wrestling CNN:
Garbage journalism. @jaketapper @VanJones68 @wolfblitzer #FraudNewsCNN pic.twitter.com/FOOh7AJP3B
At a glance, it’s easy to write off the incident as another example of Trump riling up the media with a distracting incidental tweet, another bizarre example of the convergence of modern politics and social media:
In 2007 if you said "One day President Trump will tweet out a GIF from Reddit user HanAssholeSolo" people would think you were bananapants.
But there’s a reason to take Trump’s tweet seriously, and that is its direct connection to the violence the alt-right routinely espouses.
Once HanAssholeSolo was identified as the creator of the CNN GIF, journalists were quick to identify and dig into his Reddit history, unearthing a litany of blatantly racist remarks.
Trump posted a GIF that apparently originated with this Reddit user, who regularly uses the N-word. Warning: the screenshots are truly vile. pic.twitter.com/xZYAUV4i11
(HanAssholeSolo reportedly attempted to edit his past posts to remove some of his more offensive comments, including racial slurs, but not before people captured screenshots of several of his most objectionable statements.)
The offensive and racist ideologies expressed in HanAssholeSolo’s comments are representative of much of the discussion that regularly takes place in The_Donald, and some members of the forum have interpreted Trump’s tweet of HanAssholeSolo’s GIF as support for their beliefs, based on its origins alone.
In the past, Trump has explicitly distanced himself from the alt-right and its extremism, stating, “I don’t want to energize the group, and I disavow the group, and if they are energized I want to look into it and find out why.”
Yet, as cataloged by the Huffington Post, Trump has frequently embraced alt-right codes on social media, and both Trump and members of his staff have retweeted white supremacists. Such behaviors, regardless of their intent, have been construed by members of the alt-right as a direct show of support from the Trump administration, emboldening them in advancing their racist beliefs. After Trump tweeted the CNN GIF, members of The_Donald reacted as though the president has been lurking among them. “THE EMPEROR READS OUR SHITPOSTS AND RE-TWEETS YOURS!!!” exuded one happy commenter.
Though the tweet itself may not have explicitly condoned violence, and can be read as hyperbolic, it was read by some as connective tissue joining Trump to his alt-right supporters — and the harassment they showered on journalists like freelance writer Jared Yates Sexton. Sexton, who was one of the first people to unveil the tweet’s origins, was showered with online abuse, as he detailed on Twitter.
“I received numerous threats. I was told people wanted to shoot, strangle me, hang me, throw me out of a helicopter,” Sexton wrote, describing the alt-right’s reaction to his screencapping of HanAssholeSolo’s undoctored racial slurs. “Now [my] articles are showing up on Neo-Nazi websites, there are videos spliced with Goebbels telling me not to test his patience.”
Members of the alt-right downplayed the GIF as doing nothing to incite direct violence; some compared the situation to recent controversies over a production of Julius Caesar in which a Trump analogue was assassinated and a photo of Kathy Griffin holding a likeness of Trump’s severed head, accusing those who are upset by Trump’s tweet of hypocrisy.
But whatever your views are on the inherent violence of the GIF itself, its source and the reaction of The_Donald’s community to the president’s use of it makes it clear that many members of the alt-right perceive Trump to be one of them. And regardless of Trump’s feelings on associating himself with the violent hate speech regularly deployed by his alt-right followers, nodding to their presence in a tweet like this, voluntarily or not, does nothing to minimize their movement.
There’s too much TV! We know this, you know this. But it bears repeating, because with so many good (and bad) shows out there, it can be hard to decide what to watch.
So we’ve compiled a list of 17 great shows from the first half of 2017 that you can finish over a long, lazy weekend. All of them are in their first or second seasons — save a couple of more standalone exceptions. All of them have already aired complete seasons in 2017. And all of them are easily available to catch up with on this magical internet of ours.
These aren’t necessarily the best shows of 2017 so far, but they’re all series you can easily polish off before summer’s over, if you’re so inclined.
Rich people doing horrible things to each other will always make for compelling TV if executed well, and this HBO miniseries adaptation of Liane Moriarty’s novel of the same name is nothing if not well-executed. Boasting top-notch performances by an all-star cast (including Nicole Kidman and Reese Witherspoon!), the series examines the events leading up to a murder in the tony California city of Monterey. To say more would be to spoil all the fun.
Number of episodes: Seven hour-long episodes, including a thrilling finale
Available on: HBO Go and HBO Now
One part small-town comedy, one part paean to baseball, and one part hilariously mutated viral video, Brockmire is the year’s most unlikely success story. Hank Azaria plays the title character, a gone-to-seed baseball announcer who has one last chance to pull his career together by working with a minor league team. He can’t stop saying the most ridiculous things, but he also can’t help falling for the team, the town, and the team’s owner (played by Amanda Peet). This is a winning comedy, with great jokes.
Number of episodes so far: Eight half-hour episodes
Available on: IFC.com, or major digital download services
Justin Simien took his first crack at Dear White People — a story about racism and related tensions on an overwhelmingly white Ivy League-esque campus — with the 2015 movie of the same name that he wrote and directed. But in his Netflix series, he has so much more room to dig into the bracing particulars. The first season is hard to stop watching, with each episode focusing on a different character — from unapologetic radio host Sam (Logan Browning) to nervous school paper reporter Lionel (DeRon Horton) to insecure mean girl Coco (Antoinette Robinson). The stakes only escalate as the season progresses, so if you decide to give this one a shot, be prepared to get sucked in.
Number of episodes so far: 10 half-hour episodes
Available on: Netflix
Let’s get this out of the way: Downward Dog features a talking dog. But the show isn’t nearly as wacky as that premise might imply. Martin is a morose, neurotic, and slightly self-absorbed mutt. He observes his owner Nan (Fargo breakout Allison Tolman) with some confusion and total devotion, especially as she stumbles to get her own life together and assert herself.
As of now, the show’s eight-episode first season is all we’ll get of Downward Dog, since ABC has officially canceled it, and that’s truly too bad. The show was an unexpected, lovely gem of a comedy, equal parts heartfelt and strange. But don’t say we didn’t warn you: This talking dog show is prepared to give you some feelings.
Episodes so far: Eight half-hour episodes
Available on: ABC.com and Hulu
It’s been ages since TV has seen a space opera as compelling or brainy as The Expanse, which had a solid first season but came into its own as an intense and enthralling treat in season two. The series began as a murder mystery set a few centuries into the future, when humanity has colonized the solar system; now it’s expanded to tell the tale of a species on the brink of war, that finds itself confronted with evidence that there really might be something else out there. It’s compulsively watchable stuff, with some tremendous action sequences.
Number of episodes so far: 23 hour-long episodes across two seasons
Available on: Season one is available to stream on Amazon. Season two is available for digital download, with some episodes available on Syfy’s website.
Take a trip back to one of Old Hollywood’s most notorious rivalries with FX’s luxurious and deliciously pointed series about the melodrama surrounding Joan Crawford, Bette Davis, their 1962 film Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?, and the sexism pulsing beneath it all. Jessica Lange and Susan Sarandon are ferociously good as Joan and Bette (respectively), as are the supporting performances from Alfred Molina as director Robert Aldrich and Kiernan Shipka as Bette’s daughter, BD. If nothing else, Feud makes for some particularly gorgeous viewing thanks to its canny costume and production design, which evoke the glamour and artifice of 1960s Hollywood to stunning effect.
Number of episodes so far: Eight hour-long episodes
Available on: iTunes, Amazon, and Vudu, for purchase
Netflix’s wrestling comedy GLOW just might be the perfect weekend marathon. An  ‘80s-set, fictionalized version of the origin story of the decade’s Gorgeous Ladies of Wrestling, the first season of GLOW unfolds like a classic sports movie, assembling a team of determined misfits that has to learn to work together to get anything like real glory. The women of GLOW — including Community’s Alison Brie and American Gods’ Betty Gilpin — are scrappy and undeniably fun to watch as they hurl themselves around the ring and learn how to capture each other in theatrical headlocks. You could do a lot worse than to spend some time with these unlikely heroes.
Number of episodes so far: 10 half-hour(ish) episodes
Available on: Netflix
Offred lives in what was once the United States and is now the Republic of Gilead. She’s a Handmaid — a fertile woman who’s been forced into sexual slavery by Gilead’s fundamentalist Christian government, in a world where birth rates have fallen dramatically. This dark series uses Margaret Atwood’s classic 1985 novel as its basis but quickly finds ways to expand the book’s world, along with the help of a tremendous cast, headed up by Elisabeth Moss, who has to perform much of the series in extreme close-up. This series has already been hyped to the high heavens — but with good reason.
Number of episodes so far: 10 hour-long episodes
Available on: Hulu
There are so many ways a drama about dueling prostitutes could go wrong, but luckily, Harlots abandons most of the usual clichés about working girls. The drama follows 18th-century brothel turf wars(!) and feels something like the high-stakes power plays of The Sopranos divided by the insidious social games of Gossip Girl, with a fantastic performance from Samantha Morton as the downtown brothel madam determined to rise into a veritable queenpin.
Number of episodes so far: Six hour-long episodes
Available on: Hulu
There are plenty of “not for everyone” picks on this list, but I Love Dick might be the most prominent example. And yet if it hits your sweet spot, you’ll devour all of it in an afternoon. Chris, played by the incomparable Kathryn Hahn, is a frustrated filmmaker who moves with her husband to the middle-of-nowhere Marfa, Texas. There, she promptly meets the titular Dick, a hyper-masculine cowboy artist played by Kevin Bacon — and when she confesses her near-instant crush on Dick to her husband, he doesn’t exactly discourage it. That’s just the first weird turn in this new series from Transparent creator Jill Soloway and writer Sarah Gubbins.
Number of episodes so far: Eight half-hour episodes
Available on: Amazon
How many TV shows can say they’re post-apocalyptic martial arts epics? Pretty much just this one. The story involves a lot of exposition about Into the Badlands’ future-set world, where disputes are often settled via martial arts battles; while it’s frequently silly, it also allows the show to deliver some of the most inventive action sequences on TV, often jaw-dropping in their ability to come up with perfectly choreographed moments of joyful, kinetic motion.
Number of episodes so far: 16 episodes, across two seasons
Available on: The first season (just six episodes!) is streaming on Netflix. Season two is available on AMC’s website.
The 1969 murder of “Sister Cathy,” a beloved school teacher from Baltimore, provides the impetus for this documentary miniseries that functioned as Netflix’s follow-up to its wildly popular 2015 series Making a Murderer. But the question of who killed the nun is just the introduction to a saga that pulls in church corruption, horrible secrets, and a slow-building network of survivors who manage to endure in the face of so many terrible things. The Keepers is one grim watch, but one filled with an inspiring quality of endurance.
Number of episodes: Seven hour-long episodes
Available on: Netflix
The host of articles that greeted this superhero series as the weirdest thing on TV in ages seem a little silly now that the third season of Twin Peaks is unfurling in its intentionally bizarre glory. But this X-Men adaptation from Fargo’s Noah Hawley is still a trippy dance through a mind-melting mélange of genres, hopping from horror to romance to workplace drama with practiced ease, and stopping off every so often along the way to, say, visit Jemaine Clement in an extra-dimensional ice cube — why not?
Number of episodes so far: Eight hour-long episodes
Available on: iTunes, Amazon, and other major online video merchants, for purchase
Syfy’s adaptation of Lev Grossman’s book trilogy grew exponentially in its second season, transforming what had already been an entertaining series into the heir apparent to the late, lamented Buffy the Vampire Slayer. Like that earlier series, this is a show in love with tonal mish-mash, with jokes, with language. And even more like that earlier series, it uses fantastical tropes (in this case, a bunch of young magicians trying to find their place in the world) to tell a vital story about growing up.
Number of episodes so far: 26 hour-long episodes, across two seasons
Available on: Season one is streaming on Netflix. Some season two episodes are available on Syfy’s website, while all season two episodes are available for digital download.
FXX’s bizarre and sometimes brilliant comedy has officially shut down after three seasons, but that doesn’t mean you shouldn’t catch up on what you missed. Created by essayist and former Saturday Night Live writer Simon Rich, Man Seeking Woman threw dweeby everyman Josh (Jay Baruchel) into the horrors of dating — and made those horrors literal in increasingly surreal sketches.
But if you’re just looking for a quick marathon, we highly recommend the third and final season, in which Josh leaves the single life behind and settles into a real relationship with Lucy (Katie Findlay). The season ends up being fairly split between both Josh and Lucy’s points of view, which is both refreshing and necessary as Man Seeking Woman dives into what it means for two people to get to know each other’s best, worst, and grossest features as they merge their lives.
Number of episodes: 30 half-hour episodes total, 10 per season
Available on: Seasons one and two are streaming on Hulu; season three is available to buy on iTunes and Amazon.
Traditional sitcoms are staging a bit of a comeback, and this Netflix revival of Norman Lear’s ‘70s hit comedy about a single mother is a terrific example of just what can be accomplished within the classic format. Justina Machado plays Penelope, a woman raising her two children with the help of her mother (the immortal Rita Moreno, in an Emmy-worthy role), her landlord, and occasionally her boss. This one will sneak up on you; if you’re not deeply moved by the finale, you’re made of sterner stuff than us.
Number of episodes so far: 13 half-hour episodes
Available on: Netflix
The DiMeo family is messy, shameless, and fiercely loyal to each other above all else. They also tend to orbit around JJ, the eldest DiMeo kid who also happens to have non-verbal cerebral palsy, and whose needs require some extra considerations that most of the other families, especially the ones the DiMeos encounter in whatever suburb they’re currently trying on for size, never have to think about.
The show is fantastically smart and fun, especially when grounded by performances like that of the wry Micah Fowler (who plays JJ), John Ross Bowie as his dad, and Minnie Driver as the family matriarch who gets shit done. With Speechless, ABC has found another winning family sitcom with a real — and very funny — voice.
Number of episodes so far: 23 half-hour episodes
Available on: Hulu, with some episodes available on ABC.com
It’s two days before taping, and something isn’t quite working about this episode of NBC’s The Carmichael Show.
The lively, issues-driven sitcom is both one of TV’s funniest and one of its most under-the-radar; it will film the penultimate episode of its third season a little over 48 hours from now, and the show’s writers have gathered to go over notes from the run-through that just took place on soundstages across the Fox lot. (The show usually rolls out new episodes in the summer, when much of the TV world curls up for a long nap.)
Related
The Carmichael Show, about a young man and his family full of people who love to argue the issues of the day, a.k.a. a premise as old as TV itself, is at the forefront of a wave of really good, really political traditional sitcoms that have hit the airwaves in the past five years. They all look at a deeply fractured America and see room for humor —modern-day All in the Family-style shows that see every argument between right and left as an opportunity to tweak the foibles of both. What’s more, they express America’s racial, economic, and political diversity better than a lot of other TV genres.
But even if Carmichael were the only show of its type on the air, it would suggest that within its very classic, artistically conservative boundaries, where audiences laugh and stories are mostly confined to the family living room, lies the secret to how to talk about the difficult topics that tear us apart in real life. Can the classic sitcom save America?! Probably not — but shows like Carmichael might make you hope they could.
Today, though, the show’s writers must first decide how to keep politics from taking over the episode they’re about to film.
This episode is really good, I think, having just watched the run-through. The Carmichael Show is centered on comedian Jerrod Carmichael — the series’ star, its creator, and one of its writers — and this half-hour hits on the twin poles of the series, digging into a persistent social issue through the very personal lens of the show’s opinionated characters.
In this case, the characters are wrestling with the question of whether women can ever find empowerment through stripping, or if it’s an inherently demeaning act. (Trust me, they find the humor in that seemingly dry topic.)
But the writers aren’t yet satisfied, and drill down into what feels off about the episode. It’s hitting the right beats when it comes to the sociopolitical aspects, but it’s not personal enough. The various members of the Carmichael family don’t have enough investment in the week’s story, which revolves around a guest character we’ve only just met. The story can’t be all politics. It only works if it finds a way to dig into why those politics are deeply personal — and vice versa.
The writers suggest solutions to this problem to showrunner Danielle Sanchez-Witzel, who furrows her brow and thinks them through. (I can, in fact, almost see her turn over each and every idea in her brain, isolating what works and discarding the rest.) There isn’t much conversation — this is a time for thinking — and as the group circles a solution, Sanchez-Witzel turns to Carmichael for a series of gut checks. Does this work? Does it fit the show’s voice and vision?
Slowly but surely, they find their way out of the conundrum, without blowing up the script and starting over from scratch. When I see the show taped a few nights later, before a raucous live studio audience, it’s hard to say what alchemical magic has been performed — a few lines tweaked here, a few reactions tightened up there — but everything really is that much better.
The writers watch the action from the floor. Above them, the audience laughs, or doesn’t.
In the lulls, new jokes will be written for a later taping. (Alone among sitcoms, The Carmichael Show tapes twice in one night, with the first taping unfolding like a stage play with cameras and the second used to make needed adjustments and alterations. The show’s editors will take what they need from both tapings. I wrote more about this here.) There’s a definite electricity to a tape night, a high-wire act where the week’s script either flies or flops, with minimal time to smooth out the problem spots.
I have attended many, many episode tapings like this while living in Los Angeles, and there’s nothing quite like their weird blend of TV and live theater. Many of the greatest TV series of all time — I Love Lucy, All in the Family, Cheers, Seinfeld — were filmed in this fashion, before a live studio audience. And yet the idea of a sitcom that contains audience laughter has become a bit of a punchline itself in recent years. Aren’t those shows hackwork?
In a word, no. This sort of sitcom is a uniquely American art form that’s been out of favor for nearly 20 years, but is finding its way back into fashion for one simple reason: In a country where our politics divide us more than ever, sitcoms filmed before a live studio audience are one of the few places where we can all still get together and argue about what would otherwise pull us apart, without wanting to kill each other.
When you think about the great TV shows centered on genuine political conflict — by which I mean shows where two characters have very different political views and want to argue about them, shows like All in the Family or Maude or Roseanne — almost all of them use a format known in the TV industry as the “multi-camera sitcom.”
There are exceptions, of course, but if you’re going to have characters come to loggerheads over LGBTQ rights, or racial division, or the income tax rate, having the leavening agent of the live studio audience somehow casts a spell that other shows can’t manage. It’s as if the laughter reminds viewers that we can talk about this kind of serious, personal stuff and still find it funny.
The presence of that “live studio audience” (which we’ll return to in a moment) is the easiest way for a viewer to separate a “multi-camera sitcom” from a “single-camera sitcom.”
Multi-camera sitcoms are typically staged like a Broadway play, on a deliberately artificial-looking set, with no fourth wall. An audience files into the soundstage to watch and laugh, and a number of cameras, usually four, capture every scene from a variety of angles, to allow for more options in editing.
Single-camera sitcoms are usually filmed more like a movie — often on location or on more “realistic” sets — and, as such, they don’t have an audience present to laugh at the jokes. (The “single-camera” designation is a bit of a misnomer, since most of these shows are also filmed on multiple cameras at once — they’re just staged very differently.)
All of this technical definition is, to many viewers, unimportant, and yet there’s some indication that viewers notice it, perhaps subconsciously. It’s rare, for instance, for a network to air a single-camera sitcom and a multi-camera sitcom back to back and have both series thrive.
The result is that more and more multi-camera sitcoms have been marooned on their own nights in the weird hinterlands of their networks’ schedules. Single-camera sitcoms — though often lower-rated than multi-camera sitcoms — are trendier. Multi-cams don’t pull in strong reviews or Emmy Awards; they feel purposely old-fashioned in a way that the era of Peak TV often eschews in favor of the new.
But in recent years, more and more good multi-cams have crowded onto the air, often with a bent toward social issues and telling stories about how those issues divide us. The first was probably CBS’s Mom, starring Anna Faris and Allison Janney, which debuted in 2013. It was quickly followed by The Carmichael Show in 2015, and then the Netflix duo of The Ranch (2016) and One Day at a Time (2017). These four shows — all very good to genuinely terrific — are just the tip of an iceberg of new, socially conscious comedy that wrestles with big issues and tells stories about populations rarely seen on TV, from lower-class recovering addicts to Cuban-American families to rural ranchers.
CBS
And that’s to say nothing of shows like ABC’s recently canceled Last Man Standing, which certainly wasn’t perfect but was one of TV’s few shows to center on a conservative character and take his point of view more or less seriously (even if most episodes ended with him failing to change the more liberal characters’ minds).
Multi-cams don’t just offer a safe space to talk about political issues that have us at odds; through their stuffier and more artistically conservative format, they create a world where all sorts of ideas across the political spectrum can come into play and be considered by all sorts of people. They offer a place where viewers can try these ideas on for size — and sometimes adopt them.
Indeed, the two most exciting things happening in TV comedy right now, to my mind, are the more experimental and auteur-driven cable and streaming comedies that explore particular points of view (often through filmmaking with a dose of surrealism, à la Atlanta or Insecure or Master of None), and the recent swath of terrific multi-camera sitcoms, which are using the inherent limitations of the format as a kind of challenge. Can you do anything new with this format? Should you even try? These shows answer, week after week, in the affirmative.
But I’m betting you’ve read a lot more about the world’s Master of Nones as of late.
Attending a multi-camera sitcom taping is a wholly unique experience in American pop culture. It’s a TV show, but not quite; a stage play, but also not quite. There’s usually a comedian in the audience whose job is to keep the crowd laughing between takes, and then coax them into immediate silence once it’s time to shoot again, quietly reminding everyone of where they are in the plot.
When a taping clicks, there’s nothing like it.
Early on in working on this story, in February 2015 (on the very night BuzzFeed posted about “the dress” and left the entire internet pretending to understand color theory), I attended a taping for the short-lived ABC sitcom Cristela, in which comedian Cristela Alonzo starred as a young Latina woman trying to balance an overly involved home life with her first few days of work at the lowest levels of a law firm. It was a good show, sort of like if someone crossbred The Dick Van Dyke Show and Better Call Saul, and more importantly, Alonzo was clearly a TV star, charismatic and quick with a punchline.
Related
The show was buried within ABC’s Friday night schedule, but it held on to enough of its Last Man Standing audience to have a decent shot at renewal. And on this night — when Tim Allen’s Last Man character would cross over to meet Cristela (for one scene only, which was taped beforehand and shown to the audience on monitors) — spirits were high. The main story, about Cristela’s struggles to have a love life in the midst of everything else, was strong, and the jokes were working. Even the weaker ones could be pushed over the finish line by a cast that was clearly gelling.
Showrunner and co-creator Kevin Hench came to me, lurking on the sidelines, beaming. “This is really working tonight,” he said. It often takes a while for a sitcom ensemble to get comfortable enough with each other to play well in front of a studio audience, but Cristela’s ensemble had gotten there and knew how to use the audience to push punchlines from “pretty funny” to “hilarious.” The audience was laughing. The writers weren’t making many changes. Everything was going smoothly.
And then, a few months later, the series was canceled.
Cristela’s fate is the peril of the multi-cam right now. Ratings-wise, the biggest comedies on TV tend to be multi-cams — like The Big Bang Theory currently and Two and a Half Men before it — but the good ones tend to toil in semi-obscurity. Even the highest-rated show I’ve mentioned in this article, Mom, lags significantly behind Big Bang in terms of viewership.
The Carmichael Show has carved out a niche for itself in the summers, while One Day at a Time and The Ranch are doing about as well for themselves as any Netflix show (which is to say we have no idea how well they’re doing, but they keep getting renewed). But generally, the public attention turns more toward shows that are well past their prime (Big Bang) or actively terrible (Netflix’s Fuller House, one of the few shows the streaming service will allow is a genuine sensation).
This makes tape nights a strange bubble for multi-camera sitcoms to exist in. When I attended that taping of The Carmichael Show, the audience was eating out of the cast’s hand, as well they should have been — Carmichael’s ensemble is one of the most well-calibrated on TV. But it’s usually not clear whether most of the people in the room have ever watched the show outside of the single episode they were shown before the taping, to familiarize them with the characters and relationships.
I watch as they laugh, and some are obviously fans. But others are clearly just here because they like one of the actors (Loretta Devine or David Alan Grier, perhaps, who play Jerrod’s parents and both have fans, though LilRel Howery, as Jerrod’s brother, has seen his fan base grow in the wake of a notable role in Get Out). Still others probably got the tickets as part of a group outing, or just thought it would be interesting to see how a TV show is made.
I’ve attended tapings with senior groups and military members on leave and “sitcom lifers” — people who try to see as many tapings of as many shows as they can. I know one showrunner who tells me he can sometimes pick out individual laughs from these lifers on the sound mixes of his shows, because they’re so distinctive.
I suppose this sounds depressing in some ways — all of these people locked together in a room and urged to laugh on cue. And it can be. (I once attended a taping of the famously terrible Fox sitcom Dads, so boy, do I know it can be.) But when it works, it’s fascinating to observe how everybody in the room performs a specific role in a kind of ballet, one that will end up on TV.
The cameras glide and pan and tilt, and between scene setups, they move to film another set, in an elaborate, unspoken choreography. (Multiple sets are placed right next to each other on a multi-camera soundstage, so the audience can see all of them at once.)
The writers huddle between takes to spruce up jokes, then call in their changes to the actors, hoping a new line will get a bigger laugh. (Only multi-cam affords this luxury in the TV space — if a joke bombs, it can always be replaced.) The actors experiment a little, playing around with the safety net of an audience that will laugh or not laugh at appropriate times. It’s a kind of game, waiting to see if something will fall, or how long you can suspend your disbelief even though all the trappings of making TV are right there in front of you.
And then, against all odds, against the weight of the 60-plus years of sitcom history, something happens that you weren’t expecting, and you laugh.
The thing that most intrigues me about the multi-camera sitcom is that for its intense, artistic conservatism — it can never do anything too crazy, because it’s bound to a soundstage and a very specific set of parameters — it’s also the TV genre that’s most often pointed to when it comes to questions of pop culture helping Americans grow more comfortable with diversity and outside points of view.
Case in point: Will & Grace. Can anyone ever prove that the show becoming one of the most popular in America directly affected and encouraged the country’s growing acceptance of LGBTQ rights? Of course not. But the correlation between when the series debuted (in 1998) and the rise in levels of acceptance of LGBTQ Americans in opinion polls is close enough to make speculation plausible, at least.
It’s a chicken-egg question. More Americans became comfortable with LGBTQ people, because more Americans got to know LGBTQ people in their day-to-day lives. But how much did their getting to know more LGBTQ people come about because of an environment where people felt comfortable coming out of the closet thanks to TV shows, usually sitcoms, presenting LGBTQ people as just another part of the vast mosaic of interchangeable, attractive Americans who can crack jokes and draw laughs from unseen viewers?
This storytelling approach can backfire. The creators of All in the Family were rarely sure what to make of how many of their viewers seemed to empathize heartily with Archie Bunker, who frequently expressed controversial (read: racist and misogynistic) opinions, and whom they intended as a kind of sitcom antihero.
But at the same time, because the sitcom ruthlessly demands only one thing from viewers from all backgrounds — laugh! — it functions as a great leveler. So long as they’re laughing, viewers are forced to sympathize with characters they might not meet in their day-to-day lives, and that leads to familiarity, which leads to a kind of acceptance, at least onscreen.
This quality is inherent to the multi-camera sitcom. Just look at the very first one, I Love Lucy, which presented an interracial marriage as no big deal and dared Americans to keep up. Some were outraged; most just watched. It was the No. 1 show on TV.
Multi-camera sitcoms enjoyed their greatest potency in the ’70s and ’80s, the eras of The Mary Tyler Moore Show and Cheers. Back then, sitcoms were not only the most-watched programs in a TV universe that contained only a handful of networks, but also routinely embraced stories of social class, race, and gender that provided a window into, say, women entering the workforce or blue-collar folks struggling to pull themselves up the ladder of Reagan’s America. And because they all had to be funny, they were able to do an end-around preachiness, whereas some of their single-camera peers, like M.A.S.H. (a show I like, on the whole) found themselves frequently devoured by self-righteous moralizing.
Of course, sitcoms are also governed by stereotypes — by the idea that humor often derives from the broadest possible version of something. (You can see this playing out in largely inoffensive fashion on The Big Bang Theory, where most of the characters are capital-N Nerds who wouldn’t have felt out of place hanging out with Screech on Saved by the Bell.) Jack on Will & Grace isn’t just an effeminate gay man. He’s the most effeminate gay man. That’s why many of these shows don’t “age well,” as any YouTube compilation of gay panic Friends jokes will gleefully tell you.
But the flip side is that the multi-camera sitcom has a unique power, one that allowed for Will & Grace to influence American attitudes, however it did. If you find yourself free to laugh at Jack as a stereotype, then when he’s revealed to have thoughts and feelings and an inner self, your guard is down. You’re more willing to accept him, because you realize that what you interpret as an extreme is actually a facade, and he’s more like you than you might have thought. By playing into stereotypes, the most skillful multi-camera sitcoms can defuse them, bit by bit.
The operative word here is “skillful,” and it doesn’t take too much scrutiny to note how few skillful multi-cams there really are.
The new wave of socially conscious sitcoms can largely trace their lineage back to one man: Norman Lear, the TV producer who brought the English sitcom Till Death Us Do Part to these shores and renamed it All in the Family. His catalog of ’70s TV series, which includes shows like The Jeffersons, Maude, Sanford and Son, Good Times, and the original One Day at a Time, is one of the most important, substantial bodies of work in American television.
And somewhat remarkably, Lear is still alive and still making TV. He’s now 94 years old, and his pace might have slowed from the days when he had seemingly dozens of shows in development, but, then, he is halfway through his 90s. Lear has bestowed his blessing upon Carmichael (who has spoken often of his affection for Lear’s work), and you might notice that one of today’s good multi-cams — Netflix’s One Day at a Time — bears the same title as one of Lear’s ’70s hits.
Related
It’s a remake, yes, but one that fundamentally rethinks the original show’s concept — a single mother raising her two kids — for an era when that’s not an especially edgy hook. And if you talk about the 2017 One Day at a Time on a superficial level, it sounds like someone crammed a bunch of buzzwords into the same space and called it a TV show. It’s still about a single mother raising her two kids, but now she’s also a Cuban-American veteran struggling to make ends meet and having to deal with being a Latina woman living in Donald Trump’s America.
What keeps One Day at a Time from being a Mad Libs mashup of too many different elements is that at all times, its writers (headed up by creators and showrunners Gloria Calderon Kellett and Mike Royce) have their eye on the fact that their characters are people first, politics second. When I visit the offices of One Day at a Time in late May, the writers are trying to reorient the season two premiere to make viewers feel, more viscerally, just what main character Penelope is going through as her already crowded schedule of parenting and working full time gets even more crowded in the wake of deciding to go back to school.
This is what has always set Lear’s work apart from the many, many shows that have tried to rip them off by confusing politics for personality. The characters in a Norman Lear show — from All in the Family’s Archie Bunker all the way up to the 2017 One Day at a Time’s Penelope — aren’t constantly thinking about how they fit into American political narratives, because they’re already living them.
Related
In One Day at a Time’s first season, Penelope isn’t thinking about the politics of deportation, because she’s witnessing the heartbreak that results when the Mexican-born parents of one of her daughter’s best friends (an American citizen) are deported. Similarly, a major reason that All in the Family became such a big hit was that it seemed like it could bridge the gap between two drastically different visions of America in the turbulent 1970s.
The most persistent criticisms of shows like this are that they soften and humanize characters who might otherwise be seen as monstrous. Many mostly failed TV shows have tried to offer riffs on Archie Bunker in the years since the ’70s, but they’ve always been careful to suggest a slight distance between a character’s prejudiced comments and what the writers believe — the, “Hey, we’re not that guy!” effect. (The terror of the think piece industrial complex is real.)
What made All in the Family work, though, was that Lear loved Archie in spite of all of the reasons he knew he shouldn’t. (He says in his memoir that he drew inspiration from his own father to create Archie.) Archie was a racist asshole with a temper, but he really loved and cared about his family. What was human about him illuminated what was monstrous about him and vice versa, and in All in the Family’s best episodes, this feedback loop (spurred on by that laughing audience) prompted the same soul searching in the audience. You, too, were like every member of the Bunker family in some way.
I think a lot about this quality of Lear’s work while listening to the One Day at a Time cast read through their second season’s second episode, which forthrightly confronts what it is to be Latino in Donald Trump’s America without ever once saying the word “Trump.” One Day at a Time is a very different show from All in the Family, in that it centers on a family that will almost always be the focus of racism, not the ones perpetrating it. But it, too, forces everyone in the audience — even self-impressed white liberals like myself — to wrestle with the part of themselves that is as old and animal as anything in any human being, the part that draws up lines between tribes and calls it rational thinking.
One Day at a Time also deals in its share of stereotypes — the over-involved activist teenage daughter, say, or the white hipster liberal dude who can’t stop showing off how woke he is — but its most potent moments are always the ones where the laughs drop out and the characters are forced to just talk to each other. The studio audience is quiet in a way where you can almost hear them hovering on the edges of their seats, and then a joke comes in that causes a much bigger laugh than might be strictly necessary, but you can tell how grateful they are to have the tension broken, for just a moment, and you feel that way too.
That still silence, that hovering at the edge of your seat — that’s where Norman Lear and the many shows inspired by him live.
At this point, you may be wondering why if multi-camera sitcoms are so great — with so much potential to tackle America’s conflicts head on — they ever fell out of favor.
Multi-cams reached their height of popularity in the late ’90s. During the 1997-’98 TV season (the last season when Seinfeld was on the air), NBC’s fall schedule featured 18 multi-camera comedies, with full two-hour blocs on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. (For perspective, the network had but two comedies on its fall schedule for 2016-’17, and neither was a multi-camera show.)  And that’s to say nothing of every other network that chased NBC’s success.
The result, as you’d expect, was a glut. If you weren’t already able to guess punchlines simply from hearing a joke’s setup, seeing that many sitcoms land on top of each other at once could only force you to do so. Too much of anything leads to overfamiliarity; in the case of the multi-camera sitcom, viewers were hit with a bunch of shows whose jokes were too easy to predict, and there’s nothing worse than a not-particularly-funny joke that’s followed by roaring audience laughter.
Though all multi-camera sitcoms that are filmed before a live audience tape with the writers on hand to goose jokes that don’t draw big enough laughs, there are ways to make even less funny jokes seem uproarious to the audience (as I’ve written about here). And if you’re a long-running show, well, the audience just might laugh at the mere presence of a beloved character, which can skew writers’ barometers for what’s funny.
The feeling of exhaustion brought on by the glut reached a peak as the multi-camera sitcom entered the 2000s. That’s when solid programs like Friends (which also shoulders some blame, as I’ve written about here) and Everybody Loves Raymond began to slowly fall off the schedule, and the standard-bearer for the form became Two and a Half Men. That Charlie Sheen vehicle was occasionally an interesting show — in that it actively avoided anything that might suggest its characters felt genuine human emotions. But it also existed in a kind of nihilistic, dark space that didn’t allow for revealing the ultimate humanity of its crass stereotypes in the way the best multi-camera sitcoms always had. This made it seem crasser and dirtier than it probably intended to be (though, to be fair, it was super crass and dirty).
Finally, the multi-camera sitcom format is rooted in the 1950s, where it was generally crafted by people who wanted to be playwrights. Eventually it became a form unto itself, even as it retained a passing resemblance to American stage comedy traditions. (Look at Cheers, and it’s easy to draw a line directly to any number of plays set in bars.) But in the ’90s and later, TV comedies began striving for something more movie-like, spurred by the format-breaking Seinfeld and later single-camera series like Malcolm in the Middle and Arrested Development. The allure of creating a well-crafted TV play increasingly held interest for fewer and fewer people; a weekly comedy movie seemed much cooler.
What I can hear you asking even as I write this is, “What about the laugh track?” But I would argue that “laugh track = bad” is a too-easy conflation of all of the above. In the early 2000s, at the same time that multi-camera sitcoms simply felt tired because there were so many of them, The Daily Show was pushing political humor to new places, even with that studio audience cackling away. The problem wasn’t the laughter; it was the sense that the laughter was insincere, coached or fake somehow. Except that’s not true.
Before we continue, you should know that it’s technically inaccurate to refer to the laughter of a studio audience as a laugh track. A laugh track is a very specific prerecorded track that is inserted into the rare multi-camera show that’s too hard to film in front of a studio audience, for whatever reason. (The single-camera/multi-camera hybrid How I Met Your Mother was one.) But the vast majority of times you say “laugh track,” you’re talking about a live studio audience, and the people who make these shows are bristling, because they feel the laughs have been earned from those real humans who are watching the taping.
Still: In the mind of many, many viewers, all of these factors have merged to create the sense that a sitcom with a “laugh track” is somehow less sophisticated than one without, even if you could point to literally dozens of examples from TV history that would contradict that point. (Nobody would call The Mary Tyler Moore Show or Frasier unsophisticated.) The idea, to some degree, is that audience laughter is an evolutionary dead end that tells the viewer when to laugh.
Yet every single TV comedy has, in essence, a cue to tell the viewer when to laugh. On a mockumentary like The Office, it’s usually a talking-head interview or a glance at the camera. On a show like Scrubs or 30 Rock, it’s a wild soundtrack or sound effects. Sometimes it arrives via certain filmmaking or design choices. But every network TV comedy out there has such cues — even if some are less overt than “audience laughs now.”
And here is where I will say that I’ve always found audience laughter to be more honest than many of those other methods, even when I’m not personally laughing at the joke in question. The studio audience functions as a kind of judge and jury for the program at hand; when they get quiet, we know something is up, and when they laugh, even if we think what they’re laughing at isn’t funny, their laughter helps us better understand the rhythm of what we’re watching.
Though audience laughter became a kind of unfair shorthand for the death of the multi-camera sitcom, it’s also why the form is being resurrected thanks to political storytelling. To laugh about our political differences often requires a leavening agent, and at its most basic level, the studio audience is that. We’re laughing, it seems to say, so you can laugh too. But it can also be so much more.
On a single-camera sitcom, political arguments are very hard to do well, because there are few ways to offer the pressure release valve of the audience laughing. (There are exceptions — the very good, very political single-camera comedy Black-ish comes to mind.) It’s always difficult to convey conflict in a 22-minute episode anyway, and the single-camera format gravitates naturally toward warm-hearted hangout shows with minimal arguing. And that’s fine, but sometimes you want a little conflict, a little acknowledgement that not every fight is easily resolved.
It’s helpful, then, to think of the studio audience as another character in a show you watch, not as a weird group of strangers telling you when to laugh. Pay attention to how a show milks tension from whether they will or won’t laugh — from going dramatic just when you might expect it to go comedic or vice versa.
In the best multi-camera sitcoms, in the Carmichaels and One Days and Moms of the world, this relationship between serious subject matter and tension-relieving laughter is sometimes why an episode works. Carmichael in particular walks this line in an upcoming episode about racial slurs — part of the episode’s daring is frankly talking about this stuff on TV, and thus, the audience becomes a proxy for that daring, while also helping to spur catharsis after both the characters onscreen and the viewers at home do the work of hashing out their feelings on a sensitive subject.
The studio audience isn’t telling you when to laugh. It’s not even telling you when to feel something. It’s telling you the story just as much as the characters onscreen. In a good multi-cam, the audience’s every reaction — laugh or sob or tense silence — achieves its own tension and release, its own catharsis.
Because the mere presence of a studio audience has become a bit contentious, it’s not hard to feel just a little defensive about embracing it. The Carmichael Show opens every episode — hell, every read-through — with someone announcing, “The Carmichael Show is filmed before a live studio audience,” but that approach fits neatly within its deliberate throwback vibe, as does its choice to film two separate runs of each episode on tape nights (something that hasn’t been done regularly since the ’70s).
For other multi-camera sitcoms without that throwback vibe, like The Ranch — which takes great pride in its Netflix-derived ability to swear and show off Ashton Kutcher’s butt — the way forward is to take a form that seems stodgy and blend it with the TV innovations of the past 20 years. The people repopulating the multi-camera world, then, are a curious mix of the nostalgia-driven and forward-thinking.
You can see that exact blend in both One Day at a Time and Mom, which combine traditional sitcom storytelling with larger, serialized stories that run throughout a season or the entire series. (Mom in particular has always thrived on the idea that the issues its characters confront wouldn’t be neatly resolved in one week’s time.)
But the fact remains: Many of these shows struggle in the ratings, and networks are greenlighting fewer of them. The ones that are being greenlit are often direct reboots of older shows — like the Will & Grace and Roseanne reboots that NBC and ABC will debut during the 2017-’18 season. And while I’m excited to see how both of those projects play out, it’s difficult to believe that they’ll be as creatively vital as they were at their peaks.
The future of the multi-camera format — a vital American art form — is one that will be written by new series that speak to the concerns of right now, not the fast-fading nostalgia for the past. The multi-camera sitcom is one of the few artistic bridge builders we have left, and I genuinely believe that the more good examples of it we have, from even more viewpoints, the better we’ll be able to understand and appreciate each other.
But that will require more networks taking chances on these sorts of shows, more creators who might rather make a single-camera show trying them out (as Larry David and Jerry Seinfeld did when network executives persuaded them to film Seinfeld in front of a live studio audience), more critics and scholars who can write about the shows outside of the context of “old-fashioned with a laugh track,” and more viewers who don’t write off the form as needlessly hokey. Maybe all of that is impossible; maybe things are too far gone. But I’d like to think that’s not true.
Pop culture doesn’t change our overall culture, but it can give it little nudges here and there. The multi-camera sitcom has proved as much, time and time again, throughout TV’s history. Now it’s time to let it once again be part of TV’s future.
The Carmichael Show airs Wednesdays on NBC; seasons one and two are streaming on Netflix, and previous episodes of season three are on NBC.com and Hulu. One Day at a Time is streaming on Netflix.
Correction: The original version of this article misidentified Jody Margolin Hahn as Gloria Calderon Kellett in a photo caption.
Fifteen years after becoming the first black woman to win the Oscar for Best Actress, Halle Berry is reflecting on the impact of that history-making moment — and she’s disappointed in what she sees.
Berry recently told Teen Vogue editor-in-chief Elaine Welteroth that her personal and industry milestone now feels somewhat meaningless given the stagnation of opportunity and recognition for actresses of color that followed.
“That moment really meant nothing,” Berry lamented. “It meant nothing. I thought it meant something, but I think it meant nothing.”
Many people, including Berry herself, initially viewed her 2002 win for Monster’s Ball as a game-changing achievement that would lead to expanded opportunities for other black actresses to take on more creatively competitive roles and receive award recognition for their work. But despite small increases for minorities in lead roles since 2002, she remains the only black woman to win the Oscars’ Best Actress honor.
Berry’s interview, which took place at the Cannes Lions Festival, also covered the issue of #OscarsSoWhite and its resounding backlash, which led Berry to reveal that she “was profoundly hurt” by the ways her win failed to open doors for others, as she tearfully proclaimed it would in her 2002 Oscars acceptance speech:
Since the Oscars first began in 1928, the Best Actress category has seen only 17 nominations for women of color (two of which went to the same actress), with the earliest dating back to Merle Oberon’s 1935 role in The Dark Angel. And since Berry’s win in 2002, eight women of color, including  Salma Hayek, Gabourey Sidibe, and Viola Davis, have been nominated in the Best Actress category — but none of them have won.
More than a decade after Berry’s historic win, the 2015 Oscar nominees featured zero nonwhite acting nominees, across all the acting categories. In response, activist April Reign started the #OscarsSoWhite Twitter hashtag to address the Academy of Motion Picture Arts And Sciences’ racial exclusion. The hashtag resurfaced again in 2016 when, for the second year in a row, not a single actor of color was nominated for any of the major awards. In response, major Hollywood players like Jada Pinkett Smith and Spike Lee boycotted the ceremony out in protest.
The #OscarsSoWhite movement was arguably a major catalyst of change in the way that nominees — and by extension, winners — are now chosen. In January of 2016, the Academy’s board of governors voted to “make the Academy’s membership, its governing bodies, and its voting members significantly more diverse,” according to a statement from the organization.
Prior to making that pledge, the Academy’s voting membership was just 25 percent female and 8 percent people of color. But with its 2016 membership invitations, the Academy added 683 new members, 46 percent of whom were women and 41 percent of whom were people of color. And the just-announced class of new Academy members for 2017 contains a record 774 people, 39 percent of whom are female and 30 percent of whom are people of color.
But as Vox’s Aja Romano notes, “while the Academy is eager to tout its growth rates, its overall membership is still woefully homogeneous — and despite the record numbers, the Academy’s push toward greater diversity may actually be slowing.”
That’s not to say Hollywood and the Academy haven’t made any progress. The Oscars’ 2017 acting nominees were considerably more diverse than the nominees in previous years, and four of the nine Best Picture nominees — Fences, Hidden Figures, Lion, and Moonlight — were about people of color. As Vox’s Todd VanDerWerff wrote in January:
Was #OscarsSoWhite responsible for the sudden diversity of this list of nominees? In the sense that it spurred change at the Academy, yes. But what’s most important here is that Hollywood made these films. They’re all in Oscar-friendly genres — Moonlight is a coming-of-age story, Hidden Figures is a historical drama, Fences is a stage adaptation, and Lion is a feel-good tearjerker — but they’re also all about people of color. As recently as last year, that just wasn’t happening.
The push for better diversity and representation in Hollywood continues to move more slowly than it should, but in 2017, it appears to have borne some fruit.
Although things have and are still clearly changing in Hollywood, the pace has been disconcertingly slow, making Berry’s win more of an exception than a rule. Though it may have been monumental, as her own recent thoughts illustrate, it takes a lot more than a single Oscar win to open doors and affect change.
John Oliver investigated the media company Sinclair Broadcast Group on the latest episode of Last Week Tonight, calling it “maybe the most influential media company that you’ve never heard of.”
The largest owner of local news stations in the country, Sinclair is finalizing a deal to acquire Tribune Media, making it an even larger force in local media. This is particularly important because of the company’s documented conservative lean.
As Vox’s Jeff Guo noted in his explainer on Sinclair, much of this conservative lean comes directly from company executives and not from a natural political environment in local areas:
For instance, over 80 Sinclair stations regularly air a 90-second segment called Behind the Headlines, where conservative commentator Mark Hyman gives his opinions on the news. In a recent spot, Hyman defended Trump’s first 100 days, claiming that the media was unfairly harsh on the president. In February, Hyman criticized the US Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit for ruling against Trump’s travel ban on people from seven Muslim countries.
The company also produces national news segments — often with a conservative tinge — that it requires stations to run during their local news broadcasts.
A Washington Post investigation revealed that during 2016 election, Sinclair executives often forced their stations to run pro-Trump or anti-Clinton segments during their evening or morning local news programs. One of the mandatory segments emphasized problems about Clinton’s health and questioned her trustworthiness. Another mandatory segment featured Ivanka Trump talking about her potential role in her father’s White House.
Oliver mentions these mandatory Sinclair-produced segments, noting Hyman’s commentary as well as the daily “Terrorism News Desk,” which features pieces that just sometimes generally concern Muslims.
If the company was biased toward Trump during the election, then the hiring of people like Boris Epshteyn, a former Trump surrogate and White House staffer, as its chief political analyst earlier this year would only further such questions.
To emphasize Sinclair’s reach in light of the company’s upcoming acquisition, Oliver did the math, saying, “when you combine the most watched nightly newscasts on Sinclair and Tribune stations in some of their largest markets, you get an average total viewership of 2.2 million households, and that is a lot. It’s more than any current primetime show on Fox News. ...”
After Sinclair’s acquisition of Tribune Media, Oliver worries that in this new local media environment, “there’ll be even more unsuspecting audience members who’ll be getting a heaping dose of Sinclair’s content, possibly without realizing it.”
There may be no more immediately appealing premise on TV than that of GLOW. Netflix’s new comedy series follows the 1980s-era women who became powerhouse wrestlers — a fictionalized version of the real GLOW: Gorgeous Ladies of Wrestling series that ran from 1986 to 1989 — and is rife with all the sparkling spandex that scenario implies.
I mean, come on. How do you possibly hear that premise without wanting to tease your hair, throw on some Pat Benatar, and strut through your commute like a snarling Valkyrie preparing for a dramatic showdown?
The first season of GLOW — which is executive-produced by Orange Is the New Black’s Jenji Kohan — relishes the drama and feistiness inherent in its story, unfolding something like a TV version of A League of Their Own. Led by an ornery director slash coach (Marc Maron), a ragtag group of misfits band together to become a team, learning how to care for each other as they just so happen to kick each other’s asses around a wrestling ring.
Rating
The first half of the season is slow to start, devoting most of its attention to checking setup boxes and establishing that this show sure does take place in the ’80s (and if you don’t believe me, just ask its cocaine-stuffed robot). But once GLOW shakes off the exposition, settles into its own rhythm, and allows its excellent cast to shine, man, can the Gorgeous Ladies of Wrestling be fun.
At first, GLOW depends almost entirely on its leads to carry it while the aspiring wrestlers fumble their way toward some kind of expertise. Now, this strategy makes some sense, if only because those leads are Alison Brie and Betty Gilpin, two incredibly charismatic actors who rip into whatever material they get with as much ferocity as their characters’ wrestling alter egos rip into each other.
Brie plays Ruth, the tenacious Rachel Berry of GLOW, who takes everything deadly seriously, especially if it’ll help her get into character. Gilpin — who won my allegiance forever with her magnificent breakdown in the first episode of American Gods — is Debbie, Ruth’s former best friend and foil, a furious ex-soap star whose boredom with her life as a new mother is so palpable that her fury radiates off the screen. Both actors are fantastic, breathing real life into the convoluted conflict the show throws them into for the sheer sake of including a rivalry. Having seen the entire season, I still have no idea why Ruth slept with Debbie’s husband, but damn if Brie and Gilpin don’t sell the shit out of the heartbreaking aftermath anyway.
Outside Ruth, Debbie, and their director Sam (Maron at his crankiest), though, the characterization gets a little more sparse. The diverse cast of characters follows the Orange Is The New Black model, but with only 10 half-hour episodes and a whole lot of story to get through, no one gets that much time to truly blossom.
GLOW’s saving grace, though, is that all the actors are as game as their characters no matter what. Some manage to take the sporadic moments they’re given and make meals out of them, like Sydelle Noel’s no-bullshit matriarch Cherry, Gayle Rankin’s she-wolf Sheila, and Britney Young’s introverted Carmen. Even Chris Lowell manages to steal some spotlight as “Bash,” the coked-out pretty boy whose longtime passion for wrestling leads him to pour his significant cash flow into GLOW and, in some surprisingly touching moments, coach Carmen through her most insecure moments.
It’s pretty simple, really: Seeing a group of women fearlessly dive into the glittered world of entertainment wrestling headfirst while men stand by in awe is just a rare kind of TV treat — and the show knows it.
The original GLOW was an unapologetically campy cliché-fest that turned Reagan-era paranoia into full-on brawls. (The longtime enemy of its all-American hero, for instance, was a terrorist named “Palestina.”) Netflix’s take doesn’t entirely shy away from that history, especially as Sam and Bash push the women to embrace stereotypes as their wrestling personas.
But it also has the gift of hindsight, and as such, it makes sure to call out the casting of a Cambodian woman as “Fortune Cookie” and a black woman as “Welfare Queen” as the eye-rolling offenses they are. One of the season’s best and most self-reflexive moments comes when Welfare Queen (Kia Stevens) and Cherry flip Sam’s script during a match and kick the shit out of a pair of Ku Klux Klan characters instead of the helpless old white ladies he’d planned for them to take on. It’s too bad the show doesn’t devote more time to unpacking the fact that it, too, features a Palestina-esque terrorist character who ends up getting so aggressively booed by the audience that it more than vaguely traumatizes her — but with any luck, GLOW will follow its own self-referential instincts to that end in season two.
This GLOW is also explicitly (and aggressively) going for a more overtly feminist vibe than the original ever could have attempted in the ’80s. For example, Ruth only goes out for GLOW in the first place because she’s sick of auditioning for secretary roles. And as the season continues, it not only becomes clear that every woman who signed up for GLOW did so because they couldn’t fit in anywhere else, but that the only way GLOW will be successful is through their dedication. Sam is an alcoholic addict who snaps at the faintest sign of discouragement; Bash’s enthusiasm often makes him too frantic to focus on a single task long enough to actually complete it.
The women of GLOW, meanwhile, train their asses off, hurling their bodies around the ring with equal parts abandon and determination. When the cash flow dwindles to a trickle, they throw themselves into fundraising. When Sam’s stories prove lackluster, they work to execute their own twists with the kind of enthusiasm he could never script. GLOW, both the show and the show within the show, lives and dies by its ferocious women — which, in the end, feels exactly right.
The first season of GLOW is now available to stream on Netflix.
Every Sunday, we pick a new episode of the week. It could be good. It could be bad. It will always be interesting. You can read the archives here. The episode of the week for June 25 through July 1 is “Shoot-Up-Able,” the sixth episode of the third season of NBC’s The Carmichael Show.
On the day The Carmichael Show’s episode about a mass shooting was originally set to air, two very real mass shootings unfolded at a Congressional baseball practice in Alexandria, Virginia, and a UPS facility in San Francisco, California. NBC responded by pulling “Shoot-Up-Able” from its evening lineup to give the episode some space from the news — a move that series co-creator and star Jerrod Carmichael publicly disagreed with, saying that delaying the episode did “a disservice” to NBC’s audience. What he really wanted the episode to be, Carmichael insisted, was an “opportunity to talk about these tragedies in a meaningful way, to really lend itself to conversation.”
Now that I’ve actually seen the episode — which NBC finally aired on June 28, before outright canceling the show on June 30 — I can confirm that Carmichael was absolutely right.
Related
Written by Aeysha Carr, “Shoot-Up-Able” isn’t exploitative of tragedy, nor preachy in an after-school special kind of way. In fact, it doesn’t show any of the actual mall shooting that main character Jerrod (Carmichael) lives through, instead focusing on the quiet aftermath of a single person trying to process the fact that he lived through a really awful thing. It’s grounded and frank, thoughtful and smart. It lets The Carmichael Show’s characters not only process a horrifying event that’s nonetheless become an everyday occurrence, but question what that means.
“Shoot-Up-Able” takes a tricky premise and turns it into comedy that’s insightful, considerate, and, yes, funny. It’s everything The Carmichael Show — a sharp multi-camera sitcom — has become so good at in three seasons of taking on fraught social issues. Even if it didn’t air in a week when it might have been sorely needed, “Shoot-Up-Able” will no doubt inspire necessary conversations among those who see it.
Before I started watching “Shoot-Up-Able,” I wondered how the episode could possibly dive into the repercussions of a mass shooting while still remaining funny — but my question was answered immediately. Jerrod walks into his apartment to find his girlfriend Maxine (Amber Stevens West) bopping around and belting out a song. He sits down, listens, and even claps for her before she asks how his day was, and he drops the news that he’s just survived a mass shooting at the mall.
“Three people are dead,” he says to her with a blank smile. As Maxine’s face falls through the floor, Jerrod tries to start up the song again so they can both go about their business. He survived, didn’t he? He’s fine.
Except he’s clearly not fine; he just doesn’t want to talk about it. Jerrod says he would love to forget the shooting ever happened, and spends most of the rest of the episode brushing off the concerns of Maxine, his parents (David Alan Grier and Loretta Devine), and brother (LilRel Howrey). “These things happen, okay?” Jerrod says in response to Maxine’s horror. “Unfortunately, this is the society we live in. Some places are just shoot-up-able.”
And as everyone tries to convince him that what he went through is a big deal and that there’s no shame in admitting as much, each has their own distinct reactions. Maxine keeps trying to get him to open up; Cynthia (Devine) thanks God for letting her favorite son escape; Joe (Grier) insists the incident will build character; and Bobby (Howrey) posts the news on Instagram in a bid for sympathy by proxy. (“Near death experiences get you the most likes on social media!” he exclaims.) At one point, Bobby’s ex Nekeisha (Tiffany Haddish) even bursts in to cackle that Jerrod’s finally “popped [his] shootout cherry,” so hey, welcome to the club!
In true Carmichael Show fashion, no one comes out looking particularly right or wrong. As Bobby tallies his Instagram likes, Maxine gets off on Jerrod’s uncharacteristic vulnerability and Joe blames him for going to such a “shoot-up-able” place as the mall at 2:30 pm on a Saturday afternoon, because everyone knows “that's ISIS happy hour!" Even though they’re all supportive and worried — and make no mistake, they absolutely are — they’re all still recognizably real people grappling to make sense of something so awful happening to someone they love.
When a police officer comes around to ask Jerrod for his eyewitness account, Jerrod is forced to acknowledge the fact that running from a mass shooter when he was just trying to buy a food court pretzel might have been legitimately traumatizing. He tells the story he’s been trying so hard to gloss right over, with everyone in the room tearing up as it becomes clear that Jerrod truly did experience a very narrow scrape with death. (Credit where it’s due here to Grier, Devine, and Carmichael in particular for making this scene as much of a gut punch as it needs to be.) By the time the cop leaves, Jerrod is very obviously far more shaken up than he wanted to be.
“Acknowledging the reality of your feelings is incredibly hard,” Maxine tells him gently, “but it's the first step to healing."
“How is that possibly a good thing?” Jerrod chokes out, helpless and furious. “I mean, all that proves is that I have no control over my life whatsoever. It just proves that life is this endless cycle of death. It just proves that one day you can be standing in line for a salted pretzel, and the next you can be choking on your own blood. Why feel anything? Does anything even matter?"
That’s when something completely remarkable happens: No one attempts, or knows quite how, to say anything reassuring in response. Jerrod is hurt, and angry, and confused, and his family and friends don’t have any idea what to say, or how to begin comforting him. The truth of the matter is that this kind of thing truly does happen all the time in America, and there’s usually no way to predict it. Telling Jerrod otherwise would be a lie, and they all know it.
To emphasize how bold a move this is for the show to pull: The Carmichael Show is a multi-camera sitcom that’s taped in front of a live studio audience and airs on a broadcast network, not cable. Even though multi-cam sitcoms have always tackled controversial, political issues, they generally still try to wrap each episode in some kind of conclusive way, the better to move onto the next week’s episode without having to bear the weight of unresolved issues. But “Shoot-Up-Able” doesn’t bother. Instead, the episode emphasizes that what Jerrod went through is messed up, that there’s no guarantee it won’t happen again, and that it’ll take real time for him to work his way through how he’s feeling. It acknowledges that life is messy, and hard, and unfair — and then it ends.
But even if “Shoot-Up-Able” has no real answers for Jerrod or its audience, it creates a space for both to process Jerrod’s experience. It’s bold, but more importantly, compassionate. Even if we don’t come away from “Shoot-Up-Able” feeling better about the terrifying randomness of gun violence and mass shootings, we can at least know we’re not alone in nursing very real fear surrounding those issues, admit that it’s fucked up that “these things happen,” and find a real way to talk about them rather than delaying the conversation for another day.
The first two seasons of The Carmichael Show are currently available to stream on Netflix; all three  are available on Hulu.
Like any startup founder well-trained in public relations, Andy Puddicombe is reluctant to talk politics. But when I ask about the explosive growth since the election of Donald Trump of Headspace — the app that features meditation lessons delivered in Puddicombe’s charming British accent accompanied by whimsical cartoons — he concedes that we are in an inflection point. More people are trying to “find calm and clarity when they see so much chaos and confusion,” he says.
Headspace’s numbers alone are suggestive. The app recently surpassed 15 million downloads, up from 5 million at the beginning of 2016. (The meditation app Calm also saw a surge in downloads after the election and the inauguration.)
Even more telling is use of Headspace’s SOS feature — a special meditation designed to calm you down during “sudden meltdowns.” The day after Trump was elected president, Headspace saw a 44 percent jump in SOS sessions. And so far in 2017, there’s been a 31 percent bump in SOS sessions monthly compared to 2016.
For Puddicombe, a former Buddhist monk, leading a meditation technology company means walking a cultural fault line: Trying to stay true to ancient mindfulness teachings to calm and focus the anxious masses while scaling to deliver returns to investors. Lately, that’s meant allowing users the freedom to meditate for as little as a minute, down from the 10-minute minimum Headspace had. (Users can also meditate with the app for 30 minutes or more, if they choose.)
Catering to frenetic modern humans deeply habituated to precisely the tendencies mindfulness is supposed to uproot — distraction, desire, selfishness, greed — it turns out, means capitulating to those instincts.
“I would never have said that 10 minutes is going to make a difference before I started working on this,” Puddicombe told me over sparkling water during a recent visit to Washington, DC. “Then we launched the app and people were asking for five-minute exercises.”
But even that was deemed too long by many antsy, time-crunched users. And so this month, Headspace launched new “mini” mediations, along with more flexibility to jump around to different meditation “packs” with themes like “Self Esteem” and “Relationships.”
Before he co-founded Headspace, now a Los Angeles company with 184 employees, Puddicombe spent about a decade exploring Buddhism at various monasteries in Burma, Nepal, and Scotland, among other countries. He meditated for up to eight hours a day. He wore robes and was ordained in the Tibetan tradition.
Then, after a brief stint at the Moscow State Circus (drawing on circus skills he’d honed in college), he returned to London where he befriended fellow Englishman Rich Pierson who’d also benefitted from meditation. Pierson convinced him that disseminating mindfulness was a tremendous opportunity. And what began as their meditation event business is now one of the most successful monetizations of mindfulness in a fast growing market. Forbes estimates that Headspace’s revenue is $50 million a year and values the company at $250 million.
I spoke to Puddicombe about what’s behind Headspace’s exponential growth, the power his British accent has over Americans, the company’s controversial ads, its ongoing scientific studies, the strain of growing a business, and how having kids forced him to change his meditation routine. (Full disclosure: I meditate but am not a Headspace user.)
The interview has been edited for length and clarity.
Just before this interview, I surveyed my friends and colleagues and turns out about 10 of them use your app. I didn’t know.
It's becoming a lot more socially acceptable to admit that you're a meditator. But a lot of people are in the closet.
Interesting that people still feel self-conscious about it.
The kind of journey meditation has been on in the West, we [Headspace] have been one part of that conversation of demystifying it. But I do think for a lot of people it still is seen as a little bit unusual. I really would liken that to the journey of fitness — you know, in the beginning, people who jogged around Central Park were seen as crazy. Meditation makes a lot of sense now that we understand the science in the same way.
In America do you think meditation has a New Age association? Is it weird to some people because it’s quasi-religious?
I think all of those things. Traditionally there's a sense it's tied up in religion. Back then went through a hippie phase. If you went off to India or Afghanistan in the ’60s, sure, that’s what you did. Then there’s the later New Age self-help kind of phenomena which promises you everything. So I think there are kind of different elements along the way that made our job much more challenging.
The Buddha came up with these teachings of mindfulness and intended for them to be a map of the mind, to be used by any human being. Here we are, 2,600 years later, and they are really resonating. Millions of people who weren’t raised in a meditative tradition are using apps, books, and classes and going on retreat to learn meditation.
Do you think this is simply because technology is finally making it possible to mass distribute these teachings or is there something unique about this era where people need them more?
I do think meditation is for all people of all ages, across all millennia. The human mind is what it is. We have always struggled, and the fact that there were techniques for coping with anxiety and sadness and anger 2,600 years ago just goes to show that.
But we're living in a time where everybody is feeling more squeezed — whether it's an increasing amount of responsibilities or commitments or just the busy-ness of life. I think there is no question that the digital revolution has only exacerbated that. People are really feel overwhelmed by the amount of communications they're involved in.
When I left the monastery, I set up a private [meditation] practice in London. It was just around the time of the financial crisis. And I sometimes wonder whether had it not been for that whether I would have met so many people who came along wanting to learn meditation. [The crisis] had really shaken them. They were asking, “What am I doing with my life and what's my purpose?”
And I think we've almost cycled round to another kind of point like that right now. How do I find a sense of calm and clarity when I see so much chaos and confusion going on around me?
In Tibet, for example, it took maybe 100 years for the teachings to reach 6 million people, and it took [Headspace] maybe a couple of years to reach 6 million people. And so I'm not comparing the depth or the breadth of the teachings that we deliver, but I do think there's something really kind of interesting in just how immensely scalable this is.
You recently ran ads in the New York City subway that said “I meditate to crush it,” and “I meditate to have the edge” to promote your performance-oriented meditation pack. That seems to encourage a kind of craving and grasping — which seems problematic since mindfulness is supposed to teach us to let go.
I understand the marketing side of this, but how do you reconcile this message with the teachings?
Those weren’t our lines. Those came from our community. The “crush it” line came from a power lifter. One came from a salsa dancer. We went out and said, “Why are people using it? “
I don't feel like it's my business to be telling other people why they should meditate. I see it as a skill, I genuinely believe it’s up to every individual to apply that skill. Our job to get people excited.
I don’t think anyone starts meditating to benefit all sentient beings. We all start with some kind of motivation, whether it's because we want to run faster or experience less stress. I'm not sure there’s much difference. What excites me is the journey of realization, it’s about having a great sense of calm, clarity, contentment, and compassion. That evolves in different ways in different people in different lengths of time.
I feel really passionately about trying to maintain that authenticity.
Are there threats to that authenticity?
We haven’t taken investment that in any way threatens the future of company. And there have been really good challenges.
To begin with, I would never have said 10 minutes is going to make a difference before I started working on this. Then we launched the app and people were asking for five-minute exercises. Then Snapchat [a corporate client] asked us for one minute. Each time, it’s been a challenge to my own way of thinking. But for some people, a minute is the right amount of time.
You’re basing that on people’s feedback?
We’re basing it on anecdotal feedback, and data. We see how people use the product in an anonymous way. There’s a lift in engagement the shorter they get. Ten minutes is still far and away the most popular, but we’ve just launched more of that shorter content.
So you’ve seen these big jumps in use of the SOS feature since the 2016 election in the US. Is this a sign that people are having meltdowns about politics?
We’ve been growing exponentially, but we couldn't attribute that to the change of administration in DC. But regardless of what’s happening here — and I don't think it is just here, in my home country of England we had Brexit — I just think there is a there is a feeling of uncertainty, instability, and destabilization. Inevitably in those times people look for ways to go inside rather than out.
You’ve said that you have to meet people where they are, and we’re on our phones. What would you say to the person who says, “I don’t like the idea of a meditation app that tethers me to my phone?”
I’d want to investigate that: What is their relationship to their phone that is so disconnected and uncomfortable that they're unable to sit and listen to a guided meditation? The medium for me is not so important. I think that once you put it on Airplane mode and you press play, it might as well be a CD player from the ’80s.
There is nothing inherently evil or bad about this piece of glass and plastic. So it can only be the relationships we develop with it.
Things I recommend people do is turn off notifications, clean up your home screen. Put apps on another page. Rich [Pierson], our CEO, now has no email, no social media on his phone.
I wonder about the power of your accent. Americans have a thing for the British accent. Your product is clearly much more than your voice, but your voice is also a powerful part of it. Are you as popular in the UK?
[Laughs] I am not sure I am more popular in the UK. America is now our fastest growing market.
As for the accent, it's the one my parents gave me. If the voice works for people it, I’m happy for that.
You have scientists on staff, you have studies going on. So if we’re trying to understand the long-term benefits of these short meditations, there isn’t much data out there on mental health and changes to brain. What are the biggest questions your scientists wants to understand?
Dosage is definitely one of them, how much and how often is necessary to see a significant difference. Because you’re right, the truth is we really don’t know. A lot of the mindfulness research that’s been done, they’re often quite long sessions, over extended period of time on daily basis.
We have clinical trials running, always in partnership with a university or teaching hospital. They’re funded independently, peer-reviewed before published. The most recent one on chronic pain was done with the National Health Service in the UK. I don’t get excited about science. My own experience has been sitting down and seeing it work in direct way.
But for a lot of people, knowing that something is happening to the brain is really important, and I think it’s right that we pay attention to that. Part of demystifying [meditation] is giving people confidence and trust and science is a key way of doing that.
What’s the hardest part of joining the profit-driven world? It’s clearly a huge contrast to monastery life and values.
You said profit-driven, I say mission-driven. My own personal role, strange as it sounds, hasn’t really changed. In the monastery I sat down and did my practice. Now I talk into microphone. I don’t see my role as having changed that much. I have a partner who looks after branding and an amazing team of people who look after every aspect.
This speaks to the inherent tension that anyone who’s passionate and works hard has to face: Sometimes it’s just overwhelming.
Our practice defines how we relate to that feeling of being overwhelmed. For some people, that feeling of being overwhelmed is just the worst thing in the world and makes them run away. For other people, maybe it’s even exciting and challenging in some way.
Your ultimately aspiration is to build the most comprehensive guide to health and happiness in the world, right?
In the short term, we want to build most comprehensive guide to meditation. Certainly we’re not there yet but well on our way. Potential through the brand and platform for it to go beyond meditation.
That’s pretty ambitious though.
My lama — one of my main teachers at the Tibetan monastery — he was obsessed with this idea of thinking big. Not to be attached to the goal, but to be committed to the journey and process. Something changes when we open our minds to the possibility of something. If we don’t make it there, it’s okay.
Have you felt much disapproval from members of the Buddhist community for your approach?
In the beginning, yes, when we were doing events in London. We put out a brochure, and we started getting letters from Buddhist professors saying it was terrible to change money to come to event. It felt uncomfortable for me personally. And then I started looking back, there’s always been an exchange of value. People would bring food to a monastery, and in the West people come and give a donation and receive teachings. This feels like a good and healthy exchange. In companies where they’ve given subscriptions to Headspace for free, they find that when they charge employees, engagement is higher.
Are you still in touch with teachers in Tibet? Do you still study with them?
I consider myself a student of meditation and always will be. I have my teachers from the monastery and outside. I was back there about six months ago, discussing my personal practice with my teacher, and how we can start making a difference to the communities where these teachings come from.
If you come to my house, I have a shrine, and all my teachings and texts. I still practice in the same way as I did at the monastery.
What is your daily meditation routine?
I practice … well, it’s changed a bit since having kids. I’m an early riser, I used to get up around 4:30 or 5 am and then go surfing with Rich before going to the office. Those were the days. Now I get up and I look after Harley, our first son, [and new baby, Leo.]  So I'll do my meditation in my lunch hour or do it at the end of the day. On the rare occasion Harley does sleep in I get to do it in the morning. But I'm a lot more flexible with my practice now than I once was.
Best book you read recently?
Chogyam Trungpa Rinpoche, he lived in a certain manner that not everyone is comfortable with, but his Cutting through Spiritual Materialism was a brilliant book. There is a risk as meditation becomes a thing that we start wearing it as a label, and in doing so only increasing this sense of identity and self, through which traditionally in meditation we try to let go of. So I think that is particularly relevant for now.
My other favorite would be Zen Mind, Beginners Mind. While Cutting through Spiritual Materialism gets into the nitty gritty, the nuts and bolts, Zen Mind, Beginners Mind.  zooms right out, it’s more of a look at absolute mind, rather than intellectual, thinking mind. Every chapter is just 3 to 4 pages, which I think is our attention span, collectively.
A senior disciple of Thich Nhat Hanh explains mindfulness for times of conflict.
Is mindfulness meditation good for kids? Here’s what the science actually says.
For the past few years, the Despicable Me franchise’s Minions — the humanoid, cheddar-yellow creatures who speak in gibberish, have varying numbers of eyes, and harbor desire to don women’s undergarments — have become a cultural force on their own. They’re part of an inescapable meme. They’ve won the affection of our nation’s children. Their popularity is so potent that after Despicable Me 2 came out in 2013, they even headlined their own movie, 2015’s aptly titled Minions. At this point, it’s nearly impossible to imagine a Despicable Me film that doesn’t rely heavily on the diminutive, pill-shaped beings to drive its story.
But the franchise’s latest entry, Despicable Me 3, puts a noble effort into returning the Minions and the franchise to its roots.
Rating
This installment, co-directed by Eric Guillon, Kyle Balda, and Pierre Coffin (who also voices all the Minions), sees the reformed supervillain Gru (Steve Carell), his wife Lucy (Kristen Wiig), and their adopted daughters Margo (Miranda Cosgrove), Edith (Dana Gaier), and Agnes (Nev Scharrel) working out what it means to be a family. At the same time, Gru meets a twin brother he never knew existed. And the upshot is that the Minions are pushed out of the spotlight (as much as anyone can do with a force like the Minions). Essentially, Despicable Me 3 relegates them to sideshow status, deploying their antics more in segues between scenes, as opposed to giving them their own extensive plot.
The result is a warm, endearing throwback to what made the first Despicable Me movie so special: the idea of family — both the kind we choose and the kind that chooses us — and the vulnerabilities inherent in opening yourself up to that family.
Despicable Me 3 is not fully successful, as it’s stuffed with too many competing plots and subplots involving everything from unemployment, new bosses, and a villain voiced by South Park’s Trey Parker to ’80s nostalgia, exploring a foreign country, and Gru’s brother Dru, who we previously didn’t know existed. But there’s still a lot to like, and Despicable Me 3 leaves us with a lot to look forward to, should Universal keep the franchise going with a fourth movie.
The single best moment of the Despicable Me franchise happens toward the end of the first film. In the middle of the final supervillain battle, Gru rescues Margo, Edith, and Agnes from his enemy, Vector (Jason Segel).
Earlier in the movie, Gru had adopted the three girls and then abandoned them, and now he must fight to get them back. So as she’s being rescued, Margo is hesitant to jump into Gru’s arms, because she’s afraid he might leave her again. But he insists.
“Margo, I will always catch you. I will never let you go again,” he yells to her, before she jumps.
It’s a small, tender moment that simultaneously gets at both characters’ vulnerabilities, their fears, and the spirit of the story, which argues that allowing yourself to love someone and letting them be a part of your family means trusting them. And neither Despicable Me 2 nor the Minions movie got close to achieving that kind of emotionally moving moment.
Despicable Me 3 starts to get the franchise back on track in that respect.
Lucy, who married Gru in the second movie, is now a mother to her and Gru’s three adopted girls. Despicable Me 3 explores her relationship with her new family; despite being an adept anti-villain secret agent, being a mom is still foreign to the feisty daredevil.
There’s sneaky, sly stuff here as the movie explores the difference between being liked and being a good mother, what it’s like to be a new member of an already established family, and how that’s different (or not so different) from being adopted. Lucy doesn’t know whether to tuck the girls into bed or just watch them from the doorway of their bedroom, nor does she know when to discipline them or give them a painful but necessary dose of reality.
In Despicable Me 3’s outlook, the toughest thing about being a parent is wanting to shield your kids from every possible moment of pain while understanding that you can’t. The heightened stakes of the movie’s main plot — complete with a dangerous, ’80s-themed supervillain who wants to destroy the world — make that sentiment as literal as saving your children from a collapsing building.
But there are also quieter, more poignant moments in the movie — like the ones Lucy has with the three girls, or a scene where Gru has to explain the existence of unicorns to Agnes — that echo the tenderness of the first film. And those moments stand to appeal more to adults and parents than the kids who dragged them to the movie.
Despicable Me 3’s tender moments are often drowned out by everything else its filmmakers want to smash into its 90 or so minutes.
The Minions are the biggest thing about the franchise, so it makes sense that they get an adventure of their own, even if it’s much more restrained than what we saw in Despicable Me 2. They stage an uprising against Gru’s reluctance to get back into villainy, and along the way, there are a number of jokes about nudity (if you’ve ever wanted to see Minions in jail outfits running a prison from the inside out, this is your movie), as well as plenty of Minion flatulence.
Meanwhile, the Anti-Villain League, which Gru and Lucy are members of, undergoes a shake-up at the top and introduces a new boss named Valerie Da Vinci (Jenny Slate). She instantly makes things stressful for Lucy and Gru.
And separate from that, Gru finds out he has a brother named Dru, and a father who he never knew. Dru wants to be a supervillain just like their father was, but has no idea that Gru has already tried and given up on that life.
Finally, the main villain in the film is Balthazar Bratt (Trey Parker), a child star from the ’80s who wants to get revenge on the people who canceled his show and Hollywood in general. He’s on the AVL’s most-wanted list, which brings his and Gru’s fates together.
Your guess as to which one of these plots (aside from the Minions’ prison coup) functions as the main narrative of the film is as good as mine.
Balancing all these elements is impossible, and some characters are inevitably never heard from again after our first encounter with them. Others see their storylines get stuck in a holding pattern while the rest of the movie’s plots try to catch up. It makes for an uneven film, where Despicable Me 3’s strongest characters and themes (Lucy and Gru’s relationship to their daughters) and funniest bits (the Minions running a prison) — are compromised in order to speed us toward the boisterous finale.
It’s only after Despicable Me 3’s predictable ending, in which all of the movie’s loose ends are either purposely pared down or accidentally forgotten, that the franchise as a whole feels like it can truly move forward. With all distractions and gimmicks squashed, at least for the moment, Despicable Me can hopefully return to the themes of family and trust that initially made it so special and, contrary to its name, absolutely likable.
In just four feature films, Edgar Wright has established himself as both a skilled genre craftsman and an ace collaborator. His loosely connected “Cornetto Trilogy” (Shaun of the Dead, Hot Fuzz, and The World’s End), which he co-wrote with longtime collaborator and star Simon Pegg, gleefully played with the conventions of the zombie film, police procedural, and alien invasion movie, respectively. And his woefully underrated adaptation of Bryan Lee O’Malley’s Scott Pilgrim vs. the World, co-written with Michael Bacall, is a purer distillation of the concept of a comic book movie than any boasting the words “Marvel” or “DC” in its credits.
That history is precisely what makes Wright’s new Baby Driver so intriguing: It’s the director once again reveling in a well-established genre — this time, the heist movie.  But now he’s both director and sole writer, which makes Baby Driver the closest audiences can get to a pure, undiluted shot of Edgar Wright filmmaking (save for his very first film, 1995’s A Fistful of Fingers, which is commercially unavailable and all but impossible to track down). It’s also, notably, the movie he chose to make after parting ways with 2015’s Ant-Man, once it became apparent Marvel didn’t want to make “an Edgar Wright movie,” a chronology that suggests Baby Driver is the sort of “Edgar Wright movie” he wanted to make instead.
Rating
And boy, is it ever an Edgar Wright movie. Baby Driver finds Wright directly in his wheelhouse — reverently and knowingly deploying genre tropes with visual style and musical panache — and his enthusiasm is apparent in each and every frame. It’s a seemingly straightforward “one last job” crime tale mashed up with a jukebox musical romance, part high-octane action flick and part music video, propelled by perfectly calibrated performances and a wicked sense of humor.
But while Baby Driver is a quintessential Edgar Wright movie, it’s so many other things as well. Here are three other reasons to check out one of the summer’s best movies.
Wright is almost as passionate and knowledgeable about popular music as he is about filmmaking, and his movies always have at least one musical moment worth remembering. (Think Shaun of the Dead’s “Don’t Stop Me Now”–soundtracked zombie carnage.) In that sense, Baby Driver is a culmination of sorts for Wright: a jukebox musical that’s built around the very idea of musical moments.
Baby (Ansel Elgort) has acute tinnitus (a constant ringing in the ears) caused by a childhood accident, so he lives his life under earbuds attached to a rotating roster of iPods that provide a constant soundtrack to his daily activities — which happen to include driving the getaway car for a series of bold heists masterminded by Doc (Kevin Spacey). As established in an open-mouthed-grin-inducing opening sequence set to the Jon Spencer Blues Explosion’s “Bellbottoms,” Baby’s automotive escapades and his music consumption are a symbiotic relationship: Every gear shift and hairpin turn seems dictated by the music pulsing in his ears, to the point where he has to stop and re-sync the music if things get off tempo.
Doc switches up his crew for each heist, tapping local criminals whose ranks include slobbery lovers Buddy (Jon Hamm) and Darling (Eiza González) and walking wild card Bats (Jamie Foxx). But Baby is his constant, in part because he’s just so damn good, and in part because Doc has Baby in his debt and under his control. As suggested by that relationship, Baby is a reluctant criminal who’s looking forward to the proverbial “one last job” that will free him from his obligation to Doc and let him go straight. But as these things usually go, freedom doesn’t come easy, or without collateral damage.
Enter Debora (Lily James), a diner waitress with whom Baby bonds over, what else, music (cue “Deborah” by T. Rex, or as Baby mistakenly calls the group, “Trex”). Between his blossoming relationship with Debora and his role as caretaker for his deaf and infirm foster dad, Joseph (C.J. Jones), Baby’s never had more incentive to get out of the game — so of course, Doc comes calling with an offer Baby can’t refuse that teams him with Buddy and Darling, who appreciate Baby’s eccentric approach to driving, and the unpredictable Bats, who most decidedly doesn’t.
What makes Baby Driver a movie musical, rather than an action movie with a killer soundtrack, is how Wright incorporates the film’s music into not just the narrative but the action as well. Every action scene functions as a choreographed dance number, with gunshots and screeching wheels marking perfect time with the music, and Elgort turns in some winning lip-sync-and-dance moments that help establish Baby’s character beyond his signature quirk. But Baby Driver also follows many of the beats of the classic Hollywood musical — a form that Wright knows and loves — particularly in the courtship between Baby and Debora, which cannily uses music to narrative, thematic, and emotional ends.
Naturally, Baby can’t stay under headphones for the entirety of Baby Driver. The complexities of both the plot and the action simply won’t allow it without the device becoming contrived. But the work Wright and Elgort do in the first act establishes the film’s musical MO, which mashes up music video–style kineticism with the emotional and narrative drive of movie musicals. The result is singularly riveting.
Speaking of Elgort: Hot damn is he great as Baby. Best known as the kid with the funny name who dies in The Fault in Our Stars, the cherubic-looking 23-year-old doesn’t naturally spring to mind as the marquee name for a crime/action movie or a musical. But in Baby Driver, he’s perfect. The kid’s a walking charisma bomb, and Wright takes full advantage of that fact at every turn, whether it’s in a grin-inducing long take that follows a celebratory Baby grooving down the street to “Harlem Shuffle,” or in a heart-pumping foot chase that highlights Elgort’s towering frame, obvious athleticism, and aw-shucks charm all at the same time.
Baby is naturally taciturn, but smart scripting, thoughtful musical choices, and Elgort’s natural magnetism keep the kid from being the sort of brooding bore he could easily become in less skilled hands. Elgort’s Baby is so compelling that other characters become more interesting simply from being in his orbit, particularly Debora. (For all his other talents, Wright has never been an especially dab hand when it comes to crafting compelling female characters, and while both Debora and Darling get their moments to shine, they’re still the flattest characters in the ensemble.)
Not that this cast really needs the assist; Baby Driver’s stacked ensemble knows how to maneuver within the film’s dueling comedic and dramatic tones. And the film takes a smart approach to cameos, too (see: a brief appearance from rappers Big Boi and Killer Mike, a nod to both the film’s musical trappings and its Atlanta setting; and a voiceover cameo from director Walter Hill, whose The Driver is one of the film’s main inspiration points).
But aside from Elgort, no one shines quite as brightly as Jon Hamm, in a role that starts as a riff on the charming-sleazeball archetype he’s claimed as his own in post-Mad Men projects like The Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, but soon develops into something more specific, compelling, and even frightening. As with Elgort’s Baby — and really, so much of Baby Driver — Buddy transcends the flat archetypes suggested by the crime genre to become something distinctive and memorable.
One of my colleagues recently asked me (jokingly, I hope) if Baby Driver is just “The Fast and the Furious for white people.” As a white person, I’m not prepared to fully rebut the second half of that characterization — I will simply note that the casting in Baby Driver is more racially diverse than it’s been in Wright’s previous films — but as an admirer of the Fast & Furious movies, I’ll admit that seeing Baby Driver made me want to go back and retroactively knock a half-star off the Fast & Furious reviews I’ve written.
Don’t get me wrong; the Fast & Furious movies are their own specific things with significantly different aims than Baby Driver. But both properties exist on the same broad spectrum of car-based crime movies. And when it comes to execution and impact, the automotive action in Baby Driver leaves its blockbuster brethren in the dust, for one simple reason: It is actual automotive action.
Unlike the Fast & Furious movies, which use real cars as the basis of heavily CGI-assisted action with little relationship to actual car physics, Baby Driver is built entirely on practical effects and automotive stunt work; Wright strapped himself to the vehicles during shooting, and the immediacy and danger is apparent in every metallic crunch and rumble. Even with all the cinematic accoutrements — the music, the comedy, Wright’s penchant for attention-grabbing camerawork — there’s a purity to Baby Driver’s vehicular mayhem that’s extremely refreshing in a summer movie season where even the best blockbuster action movies tend to devolve into a cacophony of pixels by the big final battle.
But it’s not just the practical action that makes Baby Driver so distinctively appealing in 2017. In a movie system dominated by franchise properties cobbled together by a committee of writers and studio meddlers (you know, the system Wright escaped when he left Ant-Man), there’s a vacuum waiting to be filled by well-executed genre films that stand on their own and exhibit a specific, singular vision — your John Wicks, your Don’t Breathes, and, now, your Baby Drivers. Screeching into theaters in the midst of a heretofore uninspiring summer movie season, Baby Driver is a refreshing shot of counterprogramming, boasting all the thrills and power of a flashy studio blockbuster packed into a sporty, efficient chassis.
Baby Driver is in theaters beginning June 28.
July’s streaming premieres are a generally lighthearted, approachable bunch, heavy on blockbuster fare both classic (E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial) and recent (Rogue One: A Star Wars Story), unapologetically silly comedies (Popstar, Talladega Nights), and recent seasons of highly bingeable TV (Pretty Little Liars, iZombie). It would be easy  to just shut off your brain and bask in the comfort viewing afforded by this month’s options — and there would be nothing wrong with that! Comfort viewing is great, especially in the dead of summer.
But July’s streaming slate has hidden depths, too, in the form of a couple of excellent, wrenching recent foreign films (Julieta, The Salesman), one of the year’s most compelling and frustrating documentaries (Risk), and a fraught tale of modernizing Europe disguised as a three-hour German comedy about silly pranks (Toni Erdmann). For those who derive pleasure from the sort of thoughtful, challenging fare that you don’t often get to see at the multiplex, well, July offers plenty of comfort viewing in that respect, too.
And hey, if you can’t decide which kind of viewer you feel like being this month, there’s always Killer Klowns From Outer Space. That’s for anyone, anytime.
Here are July’s best new-to-streaming options, broken down by premiere date and platform.
When it comes to Jane Austen, Pride and Prejudice gets all the glory. But Emma is one of Austen’s most sparklingly funny novels, and this 1996 adaptation channels its snobby charms beautifully. A pre-GOOP Gwyneth Paltrow is the perfect balance between insufferable and endearing as the eponymous heroine, determined to improve the lives of everyone around her despite all the evidence that her best efforts have quite the opposite effect. And keep an eye out for Alan Cumming doing his best sneer as the hilariously unlikable Mr. Elton, Emma’s least favorite suitor. —Constance Grady
It wouldn’t be summer without E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial, Steven Spielberg’s masterful fantasy classic that captures the pains and joys of childhood. Sometimes films for and about children veer away from painful feelings; E.T. does just the opposite, frankly addressing the confusion and loneliness felt by a young boy with an absent father and a distracted mother. It’s a familiar world that gets an unfamiliar element — an alien visitor — that turns everything on its head. The movie is just as nail-biting and emotionally resonant as it was back in 1982, and there’s no better time to rewatch. And maybe share it with a young person, too. —Alissa Wilkinson
If you’re someone who’s not immediately sold on a movie starring Goldie Hawn, Diane Keaton, and Bette Midler as three divorcées taking their unholy revenge on the ex-husbands who dumped them for younger women, there’s probably nothing we can say to convince you otherwise, except that you’re someone who may need The First Wives Club in your life most of all. —Caroline Framke
It could be easy to write off director Nicholas Ray’s strange, lush Western Johnny Guitar as a campy diva vehicle for cinema’s grand dame, Joan Crawford. Instead, the film has become a beloved cult classic and a critical fave thanks to its weird, surreal plot about a woman trying to maintain control of an outpost saloon, its seething sexuality, and the force with which Crawford and her rival Mercedes McCambridge all but claw their way through the screen. —Aja Romano
Loving is a stirring, subtle romance with a Supreme Court case thrown in. Joel Edgerton and Ruth Negga turned in two of the best performances of 2016 as Richard and Mildred Loving, the couple at the center of the 1967 Supreme Court case that invalidated laws against interracial marriage in the United States. Loving is based partly on a documentary about the couple, but this film is not a triumphalist courtroom drama. Loving is more interested in the quiet love story and its broader implications, and it tells that story with remarkable restraint. —AW
The two Matrix sequels, both released in 2003, have … let’s say “troubled” reputations. But they’re worth another look, if only to see just how many ideas the Wachowskis, who wrote and directed them, crammed into their ambitious vision for the series. The sisters have made better movies both before and since, but Reloaded, especially, is notable for how it tries to cram some deeply fascinating philosophical concepts into a Hollywood blockbuster (and the freeway chase sequence is still mighty impressive). —Todd VanDerWerff
A fleet of Trek films, specifically the entire pre-reboot franchise, is arriving on Amazon and Hulu in anticipation of the release of Star Trek: Discovery this month. The second of those films, Wrath of Khan remains perhaps the most beloved among Trek fans — and for good reason. Bolstered by Ricardo Montalban’s fantastically sympathetic performance as the titular villain, Wrath of Khan features the Enterprise crew’s strongest acting and richest dramatic moments — particularly an ending that’s earned its place in cinema history as one of the most iconic love scenes of all time. —AR
There’s a lot going on in iZombie: It’s a crime procedural, a mythology-heavy story about a very slow zombie apocalypse, and a zany workplace dramedy all at once. In the past it’s had trouble keeping its many balls in the air — and giving every member of its sprawling cast things to do — but in season 3, iZombie has finally found its perfect balance. Each strand of the show strengthens every other strand, and each branch of the plot comes together as the season approaches its climax to create a propulsive, deeply compelling momentum. Plus, Peyton finally got a decent plot for herself. —CG
Four seasons in, comedian Eric Andre is still taking a sledgehammer to boring talk show conventions — and sometimes to his literal set. Hannibal Buress is still in the mix as Andre’s borderline catatonic co-host, and this latest season boasts not only the series’ highest production values to date but also its biggest guests. Jack Black, Stacey Dash, Jack McBrayer, Jesse Williams, and T.I. all endure Andre’s absurd antics, and the results are equal parts cringeworthy and hilarious. As Andre’s star continues to rise, it’s hard to picture celebrities agreeing to participate in his show for much longer, so savor the unmitigated shock value while you can. —Grant Rindner
Spanish director Pedro Almodóvar, known for his florid, wildly imaginative tales that bend gender, sexuality, and human nature as far as they can, offered something slightly smaller-scale with this 2016 adaptation of short stories by Canadian Nobel winner Alice Munro. Following the titular Julieta over decades, the movie examines her relationships with her husband, daughter, and others as they slowly fray and reknit themselves, over and over again. The ending is beautifully moving. —TV
Iranian director Asghar Farhadi became the first director since Ingmar Bergman to direct two films to win the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film with this muted 2016 saga of a married couple whose quiet lives are broken open by a sexual assault on the wife, committed in her own apartment. Though not to the level of Farhadi’s greatest masterpieces (notably 2011’s A Separation), it’s a thought-provoking film with staggering performances. —TV
Based on the popular 8-bit video game that roughly 85 percent of players never managed to beat, Netflix’s animated adaptation Castlevania is the classic man-versus-Dracula story, where the last surviving member of the disgraced Belmont clan goes up against Vlad Dracula Tepe (Vlad the Impaler) to save Eastern Europe from a vampire uprising. Our protagonist and his trusty whip (a staple in the video game series) are the last thing standing between Dracula and total extinction. For humanity’s sake, let’s hope it turns out a lot better than when I played the game as a kid. —Alex Abad-Santos
What if we told you there’s a movie that’s basically Titanic in space and puts a new spin on the idea of love making you do crazy things? But instead of ditching your rich fiancé in the name of love, this movie is more about love moving you to damn your soul mate to a life spent on a spaceship that will never reach its final destination? And instead of Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet, hunky-dorky Chris Pratt and American sweetheart Jennifer Lawrence are the star-crossed lovers and Michael Sheen is a weird android bartender? If that sounds great to you, look no further than Passengers, a film that somehow becomes both more inconsequential and more terrifying the longer you think about it. —AAS
Popstar: Never Stop Never Stopping, HBO
One of 2016’s funniest comedies, Popstar was also one of 2016’s most unjustly ignored movies; now that it’s finally hitting streaming, perhaps it will find the cult following it deserves. The magnum opus of musical-comedy stalwarts the Lonely Island (Andy Samberg, Jorma Taccone, and Akiva Schaffer), Popstar is a proudly goofy riff on Spinal Tap, applying the mockumentary format to the rise-and-fall-and-fall-some-more fame narrative of Conner 4 Real (Samberg), whose floundering solo career forces him to reckon with his legacy as a former member of the defunct ’90s rap group the Style Boyz (whose other members included include Taccone’s Owen and Schaffer’s Lawrence). Packed with hilarious Lonely Island original songs, literally dozens of cameos, and shrewd comedic observations about the nature of pop music and stardom, Popstar is a comedy worthy of adoration. —Genevieve Koski
The wonderfully silly tennis mockumentary 7 Days in Hell was one of the funniest things TV saw in 2015, so it’s only natural to eagerly anticipate this follow-up from the same writer and director, who reunite with star Andy Samberg. This time, the sport is cycling, and the role of “handsome British foil to Samberg” (played by Kit Harington in Hell) is now filled by Orlando Bloom. This should be the perfect dessert for a long summer week. —TV
The story behind last year’s crowd-pleasing Lion is so intriguing that relative newcomer Garth Davis could have leaned back in directing it: a true story of a young boy from the Indian slums who loses his family, is adopted by an Australian couple, and, eventually, goes in search of his mother. But what seems like a surefire home run for families looking for something to watch together takes a trickier, more cinematic approach, with long stretches of silence and a compelling emotional arc built into a story about the challenges of international adoption and a search for home. It’s in the mold of an “inspiring” story, but in Lion, that inspiration doesn’t come easily. —AW
While Step Brothers tends to stand out as the quintessential Will Ferrell/John C. Reilly collaboration, Talladega Nights is a more than worthy contender. The 2006 comedy, which casts Ferrell as an enthusiastic NASCAR driver and Reilly as his stalwart sidekick, is the best kind of dumb fun, even if just for the scene of Ricky Bobby (Ferrell) doing dinner prayers complete with shout-outs to his corporate sponsors. —CF
Season two of Mr. Robot is weird and messy and frustrating, but it’s also deeply compelling. It lost the hack-of-the-week structure that gave season one some consistency and balance, and in return viewers got a looping, elliptical conspiracy that was equal parts confounding and shocking (and that is probably likely to play better in a binge-watch than it did week to week, when the lack of episodic structure could be frustrating). If season one of Mr. Robot was about destroying the system, season two is about how to live in the world once the system is in shambles — and whether destroying the system will actually help anyone but those already at the top. —CG
Does the world need another gently funny show about upper-class people in their 30s trying to figure out how to live their lives? Not really. But this one hails from co-creators Francesca Delbanco and Nicholas Stoller, the latter of whom is one of the best directors and writers of comedy currently working. So it should be at least worth a look. —TV
At first blush, To the Bone’s “anorexia dramedy” premise sounds like a recipe for disaster. But the movie — which premiered at Sundance — is also the product of writer-director Marti Noxon (Buffy the Vampire Slayer, UnReal), who draws on her own experiences to breathe life into the part of a woman (Lily Collins) struggling to keep herself alive and feeling the full weight of that struggle crush her spirit. Throw in supporting performances from Carrie Preston as her mother and Keanu Reeves as her counselor, and we’re officially intrigued. —CF
It’s been a longer-than-usual gap between seasons of Game of Thrones, but fans’ breathless anticipation will be rewarded for seven straight weeks this summer, with a season that appears bigger and battle-ier than ever. With most of the characters finally converging on the Seven Kingdoms, expect lots of long-awaited first meetings and reunions. —TV
Starz is returning this cheesy ’80s classic to your screen just in time for you to hop on board the hype train for the reported sequel, which — if it exists — is either a 2018 movie called Killer Klowns From Outer Space 2 or a TV series in development. We’re not sure how anything could top this cult favorite, which is one of those perfect ’80s horror-comedies that straddles the line between “intentionally funny” and “intentionally terrible,” with a dollop of “occasionally downright scary” thrown in. But if there’s one thing we can learn from Killer Klowns, it’s that the world will always need more Killer Klowns. —AR
Every Star Wars story has its fair share of tragedy, but Rogue One’s story — which follows the underdog Rebel forces who steal the plans for the Death Star, ultimately leading to its destruction in A New Hope — is harrowing in a way that makes it the most unusual chapter of the blockbuster franchise. It might not have the thrills of The Force Awakens, and its characters don’t get nearly as much time to develop, but Rogue One is a fascinating, layered film that you can now watch and rewatch at your leisure. —CF
The most delightfully batshit teen soap on TV finished up its run by forcing its protagonists to play a photorealistic board game about themselves, with such fun turns as “discover that your longtime crush’s abusive husband fertilized and then implanted your eggs inside of her” and “get blackmailed into betraying your best friend by releasing a secret recording of her long-lost birth mother blackmailing her [the best friend’s] father over possibly murdering her [the birth mother’s] twin sister.” Nothing on Pretty Little Liars ever makes sense — especially not the reveals — but it’s always a wild and soapy ride. —CG
The first season of this sports documentary series was perhaps Netflix’s most overlooked show of 2016, argued Vox contributor Nate McNamara. And season two looks likely to only increase the heartstring-tugging quality of this real life Friday Night Lights about community college football players trying to balance their studies with their hopes of getting one last chance at a Division 1 football scholarship. —TV
Risk is a frustrating and complicated film about a frustrating and complicated subject: Julian Assange, founder of WikiLeaks. And that’s exactly the film it needs to be. Risk plays more as a character study of Assange than a straightforward, informative look at WikiLeaks. Instead of fitting the story into any familiar political narrative about WikiLeaks, director Laura Poitras (Citizenfour) presents an uncomfortable look at the complicated interplay of Assange’s personal goals, the goals of his organization, his ego, and the then-outstanding sexual assault allegations against him in Sweden — all of which contribute to a sometimes admiring, sometimes infuriating portrait. Risk does anything but lionize Assange, but it doesn’t try to take him down either. It’s frustrating and absolutely necessary. —AW
Would you believe that a three-hour German comedy about modernizing Europe was one of 2016’s funniest films, and one of its best? Rather than taking the joke-a-minute slapstick approach, Toni Erdmann slow-burns its humor, winding up to the punch with care and pathos that renders the punchline all the more poignant. But more than that, Toni Erdmann (which is slated for an American remake starring Jack Nicholson and Kristen Wiig) is about a father who refuses to do what’s expected of him, and a daughter whose desire to be nothing like him has driven her to the verge of hysterics. Their relationship is a hothouse in which the absurdity of modern life can be both exposed and forgiven. —AW
The Incredible Jessica James was a Sundance hit, starring former Daily Show correspondent Jessica Williams as a 20-something Brooklyn playwright who strikes up a friendship, and maybe a romance, with a divorced app designer (Chris O’Dowd) whom she meets on a blind date. The film hits mostly conventional notes — equal parts career comedy and romantic comedy — but Williams shines so brightly that it feels fresh, funny, and a little wise. —AW
Welcome to the weekly Vox book link roundup, a curated selection of the best online writing about books and related topics. Here’s the best the internet has to offer for the week of June 25, 2017.
This feeling of consuming a book while simultaneously being consumed was not itself new. I grew up as an under-the-covers, flashlight-holding binge-reader. What was new was the intensity of my obsession, and the feeling of pining for a book that hadn’t been written yet.
On reread, one thing I find striking in the story is the good humor of the townspeople as they assemble to ritually murder one of their own. How can they be joking and chatting with one another, I wonder? Well, of course it’s simple: they don’t really think it’s going to be them who will be stoned to death. (After all, what are the chances?) It’s so easy to participate in systemic cruelty when you think it doesn’t actually touch you.
Although his influence was not always positive, Branwell remained a primary muse for his sisters, and we should remember him as a major cog in the Brontë writing machine – even if his own work was always “minor”. And the story of a young, talented fantasist failing to make his way in the world resonates with our experiences of hardship and lost dreams.
Personally, I remain skeptical, but you must do as you see fit, best beloveds.
Women’s speculative futures have been seen as a mere division of male dystopian fiction, a long and worthy tradition started by Thomas More’s 1516 work, Utopia (a kind of philosophical treatise meets spoof travelogue), and then punctuated by influential works such as Aldous Huxley’s Brave New World in 1932, George Orwell’s Nineteen Eighty-Four in 1949 and Anthony Burgess’s A Clockwork Orange in 1962.
Palmer suggests that today’s male dystopias retain characteristic differences to those from female authors.
“Perhaps the ones by women have less often featured an isolated hero, while a woman author might tend to write more about a network of people, often with more complex roles,” she said. And a political context is unavoidable for a woman writer, she believes.
It seems glaringly obvious to me that women are missing, in the real world and in fictional ones, in the ways that truly count. As I fretfully consider our current political and cultural climate, and as I think about books that re-inscribe and circle around a female absence, I wonder if we—as readers, writers, consumers and publishers—are scrambling for narratives that mark this voiceless-ness, narratives that make visible, by focusing on her absence, the woman we need to see.
Happy reading!
This week, Henry Rollins — musician, writer, actor, radio and television host, and generally fascinating human — answers our questions.
What’s the first piece of media you consume every day?
I read articles online. Huffington Post, New York Times, BBC, Washington Post.
Name a writer or publication you disagree with but still read.
I’ve read Cheney’s and Bush’s autobiographies. Books by Sarah Palin and Anne Coulter. I read articles on Breitbart.
Who is the person who has most influenced the way you think?
Ian MacKaye for the good things.
When was the last time you changed your mind about something?
I used to consider myself a patriot, and now I think that position is a hollow idea, used to protect oneself from criticism. I used to think that in the USA “we shall overcome,” but I see that “we” will not. “We” had myriad chances since 1865, and all that happened was Jim Crow laws, the KKK, the failure of the civil rights movement and now a president that is the result of decades of targeted bad education and misinformation.
What’s your worst intellectual habit?
Rushing to judgment. Looking for the bad in someone else before anything else.
What inspires you to learn?
Curiosity. A desire to be able to defend my points of view with facts.
What do you need to believe in order to get through the day?
That I do not care when I die.
What’s a view that you hold but can’t defend?
I am frustrated that I won’t be able to kill and maim the people I want to kill and maim.
What book have you recommended the most?
Shot in the Heart by Mikal Gilmore.
You can read last week’s edition of 9 Questions with Dominique Dawes here.
Gypsy, Netflix’s new Naomi Watts vehicle, feels as if it’s barreling into our world from the year 2007.
It’s a revamp of antihero tropes so bland and formulaic that in one episode, I realized the series was teasing two possible “dangerous” outcomes that were both clichés. The show that Gypsy reminded me of in that moment wasn’t The Sopranos or Mad Men or any of the antihero shows that clearly inspired it, or even a lower-tier but still good antihero show like Damages.
Rating
No, I kept thinking of Huff, the mid-2000s drama that marked Showtime’s first attempt to shove its way into the prestige TV conversation. Like Huff, Gypsy is about a psychiatrist who’s, like, really messed up! Like Huff, Gypsy has cast Blythe Danner as the protagonist’s mother. And like Huff, Gypsy feels like all involved briefly observed David Chase cooking up Tony Soprano, but had to stand on their tiptoes to look over others’ shoulders and subsequently couldn’t take notes. It’s all so close, but also so far, like eating a stale Hydrox cookie when all you want is an Oreo.
Combine that lack of inspiration with general Netflix bloat — this thing is 10 hour-long episodes, and its story doesn’t really start until the last five minutes of the whole season — and you have a series that feels like a single-handed indictment of Netflix’s entire creative model.
I know, I know. The streaming service makes lots of great shows. But Gypsy can’t help but feel like Netflix thinks Watts and her co-star Billy Crudup will be enough to keep you watching, and it can just come up with a premise later.
The center of Gypsy is meant to be a big, psychological guessing game. Watts plays Jean Holloway, a therapist whose unorthodox methods sometimes involve adopting another identity (Diane Hart, a journalist) to manipulate the situations her patients are in. If a woman’s daughter won’t talk to her, you’d better believe Jean will track down said daughter and just make things messier. And so on.
Things take a turn when Jean confronts Sidney (Sophie Cookson), the would-be musician girlfriend of one of her patients, only to be drawn irresistibly to Sidney and vice versa. Soon, the two are talking about how drawn to each other they are and doing very little about it, because Gypsy needs them to put off hooking up until at least the midpoint of the season.
But would you believe Jean has another, more outwardly “normal” life with her husband, Michael (Crudup), and the couple’s 9-year-old daughter who’s beginning to explore her gender identity in ways that Jean isn’t entirely comfortable with? Would you believe that Jean’s indiscretions put her staid, suburban life in jeopardy? Would you believe she can’t stop herself in spite of that?
The visual style deployed by director Sam Taylor-Johnson in Gypsy’s first two hours (and generally adhered to by later episodes’ directors) involves lots of voyeuristic touches. Characters are glimpsed around corners, or through windows, or via reflections. The whole series is meant, I guess, to suggest that we’re peering in on the illicit behavior of Gypsy’s characters as they abandon all reason in the name of sexy good times.
Except Jean, as a character, isn’t interesting enough to make you ponder just why she is the way she is. Look at the other antihero dramas that Gypsy cribs from, and they almost immediately started unraveling the psychological knots at the protagonists’ cores. Hell, Tony Soprano was even in therapy, even if it didn’t do him much good.
Those earlier shows weren’t deliberately opaque and didn’t deliberately withhold necessary information from the audience. Gypsy, in contrast, does both, so that when a whole bunch of revelations come crashing down in the finale, it feels like the series is abruptly speeding through the entirety of the story it came up with for season one. Jean is meant to be an intriguing cipher, but the show mistakenly believes that her contradictory behavior is all it needs to make her a compelling character.
Even that might be okay if there were some sort of dramatic stakes beyond, “If Jean is caught, her life will be ruined.” Mad Men had very similar dramatic stakes around Don — but that's why it quickly started explaining just why he was the emotionally shut-down automaton he could be. He had secrets, but the audience was let in on them very quickly.
Gypsy treats secrets like currency, and it treats Jean as someone who’s sexy, cool, and dangerous solely because she keeps them. It doesn’t use those secrets to build a compact with the audience by making viewers complicit in Jean’s behavior; it uses them to string them along as surely as Jean strings along her patients.
Yet Watts is so very good at playing Jean that I spent a lot of the series wanting the character to make more sense than she actually did. Why does Jean fall for Sidney? I have no idea — beyond the show constantly telling us that Sidney is amazing (it’s way too fond of making subtext direct text). But Watts sells the emotion so well that I almost went along with it.
The series’ opening credits (set to Fleetwood Mac’s “Gypsy,” as re-recorded in a solo version by Stevie Nicks) show a glass full of bourbon — which Jean drinks a lot of throughout the season — shattering as it hits the ground. It’s supposed to stand in for the way that she’s a splintered personality, someone who compartmentalizes pieces of herself and is heading for a calamity as a result. But there are already so many shows about this basic type of character that Gypsy leaves you thinking, “Yes, and?”
To talk about how what finally hobbles Gypsy is the Netflix model, I have to spoil things. Turn away if you haven’t finished the season or plan to watch for some reason.
The only card Gypsy really has to play is “Jean’s lies catch up to her and send her two lives crashing into each other.” And the show gets there! But it doesn't get there until — to be really, really charitable — the last half of the season finale. And if I’m being much less charitable, it doesn’t get there until the last five minutes, when Sidney shows up to Jean’s daughter’s school, where Jean is giving a talk on bullying that’s meant to be a thematic wrap-up for the season as a whole. (It doesn’t really work.)
You can make that sort of delayed payoff work. Again, look to Mad Men, which didn’t really play its “Don Draper stole another man’s identity” card until the penultimate episode of season one. But there was so much other stuff going on there, from ad pitches to storylines for supporting characters to corporate intrigue. Each episode of that first season was a perfectly prepared little treat, with the mystery about Don’s past as a cherry on top.
Gypsy treats the cherry as the whole meal and only occasionally gives us a story about, say, Michael being attracted to his assistant, Alexis, but not acting on that attraction. It misses the point of telling a story about someone with a double life, because it never once tries to make us understand why a double life would be so attractive to someone like Jean.
Thus, the season plays out like the show is sitting in park, revving its engine. Scratch that. It’s like the show is sitting behind the wheel of a car that’s not running and quietly whispering, “Vroom, vroom!” to itself.
There are occasional feints toward something happening, but for the most part, even those feints are cliché, as in the aforementioned episode where Jean and Sidney finally hook up, but Michael and Alexis are also on a business trip to Texas.
That Jean and Sidney hook up after six episodes of pointless will-they, won’t-they foreplay (which Watts and Cookson’s chemistry doesn’t even earn) is an eye-roller, to be sure, but had Michael and Alexis hooked up instead — a.k.a. the good spouse going bad when the bad spouse decides to be good — it would have been even more of a cliché. (Instead, Michael and Alexis manage to resist each other’s temptations.)
Much of Gypsy’s conflict would be solved by Jean and Michael simply coming clean and saying to each other they want to be in an open marriage, or something of that sort, which leaves it feeling toothless. The later episodes of the season suggest there are reasons that Jean needs Michael for her own stability, but they arrive so late that they feel like twists instead of character detail.
It’s tempting to blame Gypsy’s flaws on Lisa Rubin, the series’ creator, who is a first-time TV writer, but Netflix deserves plenty of blame as well, because it likes to position its seasons as very long single episodes, as opposed to collections of stories that add up to something more.
That’s a tempting setup for writers, because it means you can keep delaying the story in favor of just exploring the characters. But characters get more interesting when we see them put into situations that reveal who they really are. Gypsy keeps thrusting Jean into situations designed to deflect and diffuse our interest. All it’s interested in is who she really isn’t, and that ends up doing the series in.
Gypsy is streaming on Netflix.
You could be forgiven if you paid scant attention to the internet this week, because it was a relatively quiet one — unless you happened to be at VidCon.
The usual glut of turbulent political controversies mostly gave way to debates about copyright infringement and online harassment spilling over into real life: A popular parody blog came under attack, several media Twitter feeds were briefly suspended, and YouTube’s alt-right extremism continued to be a disturbing and growing trend. But there were also a number of happy gorilla memes, and a few victories for Fair Use law to boot.
No, the late and legendary Harambe didn’t come back from the dead, but it was a good week for gorillas online. It all started with the above viral video of a gorilla, Zola from the Dallas Zoo, having a great time playing in a pool on a hot day. The clip trended on YouTube and then spread far and wide when after Bob Hagh set the scene to music from Flashdance and tweeted the result:
I added some music to this. pic.twitter.com/UwjhTKpaeu
Next up, we have this viral tweet, which started an instant, delightful gorilla meme based on creatively interpreting gorilla pics:
Others quickly got in on the act — though the most viral joke, the one about Spider-Man below, is actually an old one, the brainchild of Reddit user I_Say_I_Say, from last year:
This gorilla looks like he wants pictures of Spiderman on his desk by noon pic.twitter.com/aKQEphkxVy
this gorilla looks like he’s about to make you an offer you can't refuse pic.twitter.com/djEfsPSoil
"I told him. I said, 'Harambe, if you try to save that kid, they'll just shoot you for it.'" pic.twitter.com/2G1a8hfOH1
The Reddit post seems to be the true origin of the “this gorilla looks like” meme, which has had previous fits and starts, though it only blossomed fully this week. But if the internet has taught us anything, it’s to never write off a good gorilla meme as prematurely dead.
Last weekend at VidCon, the annual conference devoted to online video, the pop culture critic and longstanding Gamergate and alt-right target Anita Sarkeesian appeared on a panel to discuss women in gaming only to discover that one of her most prominent and vocal YouTube critics and a group of his friends were taking up the first two rows. Carl Benjamin is better known online as Sargon of Akkad, an anti-progressive YouTube ranter with about 650,000 subscribers. A member of Benjamin’s group, Dave Cullen, told Polygon his intentions were to, in effect, enact a real-life version of a derailing internet comment: “to shit-post, in this trolling kind of way.”
It worked. In the controversial exchange that took place, Sarkeesian called out Benjamin’s presence in the audience and went on to call him a “garbage human.” Widely shared video footage of the incident showed the group of men laughing and reacting to Sarkeesian as she spoke, while most of the audience cheered.
"If you Google my name on YouTube you get shitheads like this dude who are making these dumb-assed videos that just say the same shit over and over again,” Sarkeesian said. “And like I hate to give you attention because you're a garbage human ... whatever, dude. The fact that these dudes are making endless videos that just go after every feminist over and over again I think is a part of the issue of why we have to have these conversations — we don’t just get to be online."
In a blog post about the incident, Sarkeesian rejected Benjamin’s claim that he showed up to the panel in good fun:
When you have a history of harassing someone for years, and you show up in the front row at their panel with a camera and an entourage, that is not an act of good faith, to put it mildly. That is itself an act of harassment and intimidation.
The incident sparked outrage from many VidCon attendees, with comparisons made to the recent turn to the alt-right of prominent YouTube feminist Laci Green. Meanwhile, alt-right members bombarded VidCon organizer Hank Green with requests to ban Sarkeesian from the event for “harassing” Benjamin.
Green instead issued a blanket apology, noting that “[Sarkeesian’s] comment had violated [VidCon’s] policy, but that he understood that there was a broader context (which to be clear, we were blissfully ignorant of until this weekend, and remain inexpert in.)” The statement drew skepticism given Green’s familiarity with YouTube culture, where Sarkeesian has long been a prominent target of Gamergate-related vlogs.
I'm really having trouble believing a convention about "love of online video" didn't know about Gamergate, and didn't have policies in place https://t.co/aEl5DUVIUe
It is very easy to know "about" gamergate, but I think it's pretty common to not understand the situation deeply.
Green also said he “apologized to [Sarkeesian] for not having been more aware of and active in understanding the situation before the event, which resulted in her being subjected to a hostile environment that she had not signed up for.” The VidCon statement did not address how VidCon plans to avoid such incidents in the future, but did note that “if people attend VidCon to collect footage to later use in videos that criticize not just ideas, but focus the outrage of their followers on individuals, they will not be welcome back.”
Apart from the nebulous possibility of Benjamin being banned from VidCon next year, the incident has resulted in the crowdfunding site Patreon looking into the incident but ultimately choosing not to take action against Benjamin, whose videos currently earn him over $6,000 monthly. What seems clear is that the attention appears to have emboldened Benjamin and other alt-right and anti-progressive YouTubers — who want you to know that their presence and influence within the YouTube community is growing.
Final thought on #vidcon2017 is this: we are in the process of being the change we wish to see in the world, and it is spreading. pic.twitter.com/2CUIt9V3wY
Twitter has (briefly) suspended a number of music media outlets within the past two weeks for copyright infringement, including accounts for popular magazines T\the Fader, Pigeons and Planes, 2DopeBoyz, and Hip Hop N More. As the Verge reported earlier this week, after multiple media outlets posted images on social media of last weekend’s BET Awards, they were hit with copyright notices from BET owner Viacom, which could have been the reason for the Twitter suspension. As of this writing, all of the accounts except Hip Hop N More’s have been reinstated; that site’s editor told the Verge he believed the outlet was suspended, not for posting photos of the BET Awards, but for tweeting an album track list two weeks earlier.
The suspensions, just as we’ve seen with other recent Twitter suspensions, provoked backlash, prompting the circulation of the #FreeFader hashtag. The tone of the hashtag was generally one criticizing Twitter for not doing enough to ban Twitter harassment and white supremacists while targeting popular media for copyright infringement:
It's nice to see Twitter prioritizing petty copyright infringement over violent harassment. https://t.co/AIQa18RmvL
HATE SPEECH OK, BET AWARDS COVERAGE NOT OK @twitter????  #FREEFADER
i can't believe @thefader is suspended but richard spencer is still allowed to be on this site posting fuckin depeche mode memes #FREEFADER pic.twitter.com/MlRAFC98G7
But this wasn’t the week’s only polarizing copyright takedown.
The popular architecture Tumblr McMansion Hell has long been the perfect mix of comedy remixing, internet vernacular, and actually informative educational posts about architecture. But that almost changed this week after real estate site Zillow sent its owner, grad student Kate Wagner, a cease-and-desist order alleging copyright infringement.
Despite the fact that Wagner’s work clearly fell into several categories of commentary which make it a protected work under Fair Use law, the clause of US copyright law which allows for parodic and educational remixes of material, Wagner was intimidated into briefly shutting down her website — exactly the kind of move such cease-and-desist notices are designed to provoke. The negative press and popular backlash against Zillow for the move, however, meant that Wagner also had lots of offers coming her way to help — including one from the Electronic Frontiers Foundation, which crafted a masterful response in defense of fair use and remix culture:
The pressure ultimately caused Zillow to back down from its claim — a smart move, since the takedown attempt was rapidly turning into an example of the Streisand Effect — the internet rule of thumb that an attempt to censor something usually makes that thing even more popular and likely to spread even more rapidly. It all adds up to a victory for Fair Use advocates, remix culture, and lovers of shitty architecture and interior design. Well done, internet.
The Archive of Our Own, popularly known as AO3, is a pretty cool place that was once named one of Time’s 50 best sites on the internet. The site, a fanfiction archive, is run by a fandom nonprofit called the Organization for Transformative Works, or OTW. (Disclosure: I am a longtime OTW member and once served on the organization’s fundraising committee.)
The OTW’s general goal is to provide a safe home for fanworks online and to advocate for their legality as Fair Use under copyright law. It might surprise you, given the recent cultural ascendency of fanfiction, to know that it still occupies a dubious legal status, with courts upholding some prominent examples as Fair Use, while deeming other prominent examples as infringement.
One of the best ways to advocate for fanfiction as a non-illegal pursuit is just to write it and read it. So if you’re a fan of fanworks, as many people are, it might make you happy to learn that AO3 recently announced that the total number of fandoms on the site has ballooned to 25,000 since the site was founded 10 years ago. To be clear, that’s not 25,000 works of fanfic, but rather 25,000 different topics about which fanfiction is being written; the number of total fanfics at AO3 passed the 3 million mark earlier this year. (By contrast, of the other two most well-known fanfiction archives on the internet, Fanfiction.net had around 6,000 fandoms and 3 million works of fanfic as of a 2011 survey. Wattpad, the self-publishing juggernaut which also encourages fanfiction, doesn’t categorize works by fandom.)
The AO3’s fanfiction categories include everything from run-of-the-mill fanfic about books and movies and TV to fanfic about real people (RPF), to fanfic about commercials, hashtags, and fun Tumblr posts. At this point in the life of the internet, Rule 34 — the dictum that if something exists, someone has made a porn of it — can be expanded and extrapolated to a daily walkthrough AO3: If it exists, there’s fanfiction about it.
Check, Please! is a beloved Tumblr webcomic about queer collegiate hockey players that had taken fandom by storm and become a major success for its young author, Ngozi Ukazu. And now Entertainment Weekly has announced that the series will be published in a two-volume series by First Second Books, a fandom-friendly graphic novel publisher that’s most well-known for discovering MacArthur Fellow and graphic novelist Gene Luen Yang. On Tumblr, in the midst of all the excitement, Ukazu thanked her followers for their ongoing support, while fans began to make plans for their holy grail: a Netflix adaptation.
If Tumblr fans have proven anything, it’s that they can make such dreams a reality, so keep on dreaming bigger, Check, Please! fandom.
Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly attributed the quote by Dave Cullen to Carl Benjamin.
Victor Hugo, the subject of today’s Google Doodle, is one of the most beloved authors that most Americans have never read.
Most know the bare outlines of the plot of Les Misérables, Hugo’s most celebrated work, whose last chapter was published on this date in 1862. They know why the virtuous former thief Jean Valjean goes on the run and is pursued by the obsessive Inspector Javert. They know about Valjean’s redemptive love for his adopted daughter Cosette. They know about the revolutionaries dying at the barricades, and how Marius and Cosette marry.
For at least 60 million of them, that’s because they saw the musical based on the novel. Many fewer people, however, have braved the 1,500-page novel itself — not because Americans are lazy or illiterate, but because holy hell, that is many, many pages about 19th-century France, and we all have things to do.
But that also means that many fans of the musical aren’t acquainted with those infamous, lengthy, hundred-page-long digressions that have delighted and frustrated generations of Hugo fans: not the one about the history of the convent where Valjean and Cosette take shelter, not the one about the Battle of Waterloo, and not the one that develops a detailed policy proposal on proper Parisian sewer maintenance.
But when Victor Hugo’s novel itself, not one of its many adaptations, was really popular in America, it was both beloved and widely mocked for its digressions.
“I’ve been reading Hugo’s account of Waterloo in Les Miserables and preparing my mind for something of the same sort,” wrote Wilky James, a member of the Civil War’s famous Massachusetts free black regiment, in 1863. “God grant the battle may do as much harm to the Rebels as Waterloo did to the French.”
The Times, meanwhile, published a satirical article the same year titled “What If Your Uncle Had Been Your Aunt,” which riffed on Hugo’s assertion that the French might have won at Waterloo if it had not rained that morning. “Supposing Lincoln to have swallowed his tooth-brush on the 3rd and to have died of it on the 4th of March, 1861,” the article argued, “we are willing, for the sake of quiet, to concede that this country would now be in the enjoyment of profound peace.”
The digressions in Les Misérables are prevalent and unavoidable — but they inspire such strong reactions because they are not really digressions as such. They are fundamental to the work of the novel.
Hugo drafted Les Misérables over 20 years. His manuscript began as a polemic against the French justice system of his time, evolved into a paean to revolution, and ended as a philosophical examination of the nature of sadness, from angles theological, political, economic, and erotic. The long historical and political passages that leave behind the novel’s central action are the crux of Les Misérables’ central philosophical argument, and what distinguish the novel outside of its now-familiar plot beats.
None of which means that Les Misérables can’t be an immensely frustrating or even dull read. But it does mean that if you’re a fan of the musical, or any of the other many Les Mis adaptations, it might be worth poking around in the original novel in order to understand what made Hugo’s story so resonant in the first place.
Jay-Z just released his new album, 4:44, and with it, he seems to have confirmed everything Beyoncé implied about him on last year’s Lemonade: He almost definitely cheated on her.
So maybe you can’t normally justify a Tidal subscription, but this is big news. It’s a pop culture bombshell! Beyoncé was right all along! That’s almost definitely what that whole Solange elevator thing was about. Plus, this Jay-Z guy is supposed to be pretty good, music-wise. So you mosey over to the website for Jay-Z’s streaming service, Tidal, the only venue at which 4:44 is available, ready to listen participate in all the water cooler conversations sure to come from this album’s release.
Here’s the problem: 4:44 is currently available only to people who subscribed to Tidal before June 26, and to Sprint customers. (Sprint owns a one-third stake in Tidal.) Tidal latecomers can’t access it.
I signed up for Tidal solely to listen to a Jay Z album, which turns out is the only thing I can't listen to on Tidal pic.twitter.com/xp0Y0FP9EX
But luckily, there’s a way for those who didn’t leap on Tidal long ago to experience 4:44.
For today only, iHeartRadio is streaming the entire album for free. 4:44 is only 35 minutes long and iHeartRadio is repeating it all day, so you can hop into any of the loops and catch up quickly. It’s also playing on 160 of iHeartRadio's pop, rhythm, and urban stations throughout the country.
After the live stream ends at 12:01 am Eastern on July 1, you will probably be able to stream it elsewhere, eventually. Jay-Z hasn’t officially announced any specific plans to end Tidal’s exclusive hold on 4:44, or to make the album available to new subscribers, but “sources” reportedly told Variety that 4:44 will be available on all major streaming services after a week of exclusivity on Tidal.
Tidal isn’t alone in making this kind of move. More and more streaming services are embracing “windowed” releases, in which premium content is available to long-term or higher-paying subscribers before it’s available to anyone else. Spotify, for instance, recently announced that it would be releasing its new content to paid subscribers two weeks before it’s released to customers with a basic, unpaid subscription, a move that might have influenced Taylor Swift’s decision to return her back catalog to the service.
Windowed releases tend to be popular among artists, especially high-profile artists, because they help to amplify our collective sense of music’s value. The Napster era created a cultural expectation that we don’t have to pay anything for music, but windowed releases help to reintroduce the idea that it is worth shelling out for access to certain content, even when you know you can get it for cheaper later. For Tidal, which is artist-owned and brands itself as artist-friendly, it’s an intuitive move that will only help it in the long run.
Update: This piece has been updated to note that 4:44 is being played on iHeartRadio radio stations, not just streaming online.
While you’re hanging out at the pool and enjoying warm-weather vacations, musicians are busy dropping their midsummer albums. From introspective folk rock to a long-awaited Fleet Foxes album, June had some stellar releases. Check out all the best tunes below.
As the frontwoman and songwriter for Big Thief, Adrianne Lenker draws heavily on her personal history to inform the band’s songs: She was born into what she describes as a religious cult in Indianapolis, then followed her father on a quest to become a child pop star, and eventually settled into the folk rock artist she is today around age 17. Now 25 years old, she mines the stories of her past to craft intimate, delicate lyrics about her life and womanhood.
With Capacity, the four-piece band’s second album, Lenker’s songs toggle between intense reflections on childhood scenes (“Mythological Beauty”) and love songs, like one to her childhood friend “Mary.” If the subject matter seems a little too heavy, don’t worry — Lenker’s pure voice and poetic songwriting make her album one of the best released this year.
Tops, a Montréal band whose 2014 album Picture You Staring catapulted them to fame in the US indie scene, is back with their third album, Sugar at the Gate. To make the record, the band moved from Canada to Los Angeles, and produced it in their fuzzy 1970s vintage style. Singer Jane Penny’s voice floats through the songs, backed by easy guitar riffs and lazy drum beats; this is the kind of music you put on at the end of a dinner party when everyone is full and happy, with each song fading into the next one in a drowsy groove while you sit back and sink into it.
The best way to listen to Lorde’s new album Melodrama is all the way through — as Vox’s Caroline Framke puts it, the record “traces the trajectory of a single night of partying, with all its exhilarating peaks and self-loathing valleys.” But if you’re only choosing one track, “Writer in the Dark” is excellent.
The song straddles the line between indulgent and intimate without veering too far to either side. “Bet you rue the day you kissed a writer in the dark,” Lorde sings, before declaring her love dramatically and then snatching it away again. The song is a mini emotional journey, and the way it switches from a low-register solo in the verses to higher-octave vocal layers in the chorus makes the song feel thick with meaning and emotion.
Kevin Morby’s new album City Music has a pretty obvious overarching theme: living and working and experiencing life somewhere with big buildings and lots of people. This might bring to mind rushed and hustling songs, but Morby’s album stays true to his roots: It’s contemplative, unfussy folk rock. One track in particular, “Downtown’s Lights,” perfectly encapsulates Morby’s ethos. It’s a slow-burning song with Bob Dylan influences about someone looking for warmth in a cold city evening — simple, effective, and sweet.
The xx, the English three-piece ensemble made up of Romy Madley Croft, Oliver Sim, and Jamie Smith (a.k.a. Jamie xx), has been pumping out tunes since 2005. Their sound is consistent — heady male/female vocals with a low-key dance beat backing them. And their new song “I Dare You” is solid, even if it doesn’t break any new musical ground.
But the video that goes along with it is 100 percent worth a watch. It features Millie Bobby Brown of Stranger Things acting her heart out as a little girl who misses the school bus, convinces her older sister to take her out, and then gets her heart crushed. The video, with its stylized outfits and escapist theme, feels timeless, and it elevates the song to something more than just “good.”
Crack-Up, Fleet Foxes’ first album in seven years, might feel overwhelming at first. There’s no standout single track like “White Winter Hymnal” or “Helplessness Blues” — but this album doesn’t really need one. Crack-Up is a listen-through album, full of sweeping, intense songs that can change from a dirge-like meditation to a drum-based, driving melody without warning.
Singer Robin Pecknold’s voice is as pure and captivating as it ever was. He uses this album in part to examine his relationship with his fellow bandmates — “Third of May / Ōdaigahara” is named for guitarist and vocalist Skyler Skjelset’s birthday, and the song details the strained relationship between the two. But each track on Crack-Up is unique in both tone and subject, so much so that this album feels more like a work of art than just a regular record release.
Chastity Belt, a four-person punk rock band from Washington state, is known for their moody teen-girl music with an edge, illustrated clearly in their 2013 songs “Healthy Punk” and “Giant Vagina.” In their June release, I Used to Spend So Much Time Alone, they’ve taken their loud, abrasive rock music and toned it down a bit to explore the conflict-ridden depths of being a young woman.
In the style of bands like Girlpool and Diet Cig, I Used to Spend So Much Time Alone tamps down the rollicking punk music and lyrics that have defined Chastity Belt in the past. On “Complain,” singer Julia Shapiro repeats, “I’m not okay,” again and again and asks, “Do you ever dream about what it's like to give up?” The album captures and expresses a certain kind of discomfort and anxiety in a painful but impressively accurate way.
Deer Tick are taking a new approach to their upcoming September 15 record release. They aren’t making a double album, but they’re releasing two different ones on the same day, at the same time. Deer Tick Vol. 1 will be all acoustic, full of unplugged guitar songs in the style of “Baltimore Blues No. 1.” Deer Tick Vol. 2 will be all “garage rock,” and the band has cited the Replacements as a major influence. They’ve released one single from each record so far: “Sea of Clouds,” an introspective acoustic song from Vol. 1, and “It’s a Whale,” a loud jam from Vol. 2.
On the last day of the month, Jay-Z (whose name is now hyphenated once again) released his new album, 4:44, on his streaming service Tidal. The record addresses his notorious 2014 elevator fight with Solange, talks about the marital troubles with Beyoncé she confronted on last year’s Lemonade, and tackles conflicts in hip-hop. The reviews are good so far, but unless you already have Tidal, you won’t be able to listen until you subscribe. To hold you over in the meantime, Rolling Stone broke down the album track by track.
Here’s a Spotify playlist with all the music (except Jay-Z’s) listed above.
Imagine you’re some nice married person living in some nice American suburb, working to raise funds for your kid’s college tuition. Suddenly you find yourself face to face with a rough-looking guy buckled to a rolling chair in the basement of your friend’s house, which also happens to be the illegal casino you’re running to help pay for said tuition. And while you’ve never actually owned a casino, your friend is telling you that card counters like this guy have got to be stopped.
So even though that tiny voice in your head says, “Think about this again,” you don’t, because you’re all adults and how bad can this get? You’re just going to scare him a bit. Except now this dude is giving you the finger — with both hands. That’s mean. You don’t like the way that feels. So you, your partner, and your friend taunt him a little. You call him weird but not totally offensive names.
Leather jacket dude doesn’t seem fazed and calls you all soccer moms. And while you don’t know that 401K doesn’t mean you have $401,000, you do know you’re not a soccer mom. You also know that hatchet on the wall is gonna scare him. So you wave it around a little to get him nervous. But now your friend and partner want to wave it around too, so they both grab it. There’s tugging, there’s shouting, and suddenly you’ve chopped off one of the guy’s middle fingers. He’s screaming, you’re screaming, everybody’s screaming. You’ve got a fountain of blood spurting directly at your face and you’re crying because all you wanted to do was pay for your kid’s college tuition, and now you can’t get this guy’s severed finger to stay on his hand.
That’s The House in a nutshell.
The House follows a broad narrative pattern familiar from movies like the Neighbors films and Mike and Dave Need Wedding Dates — all of which The House director and co-writer Andrew Jay Cohen had a hand in writing: A hapless (though largely harmless) person or group faces an unexpected life disturbance that forces them to take ridiculous, risky, but sort of fun measures, until things reach their breaking point and the ride comes to a screeching halt. It’s the “that escalated quickly” approach to comedic storytelling, and The House leans into this formula, albeit within a clever central premise.
Rating
Will Ferrell and Amy Poehler star as Scott and Kate Johansen, sweet, well-meaning parents who learn their daughter, Alex (Ryan Simpkins), has been accepted into her dream school. But with no savings and a city council–sponsored scholarship that’s dissipated, they quickly realize they might be the barrier to Alex actually attending said dream school.
Following a nearly lucrative trip to Vegas, their gambling- and porn-addicted friend Frank (Jason Mantzoukas) convinces the couple to turn his foreclosed home into a decked-out and very illegal mini casino. Complete with massage tables, a comedy club, a nail salon, a “fighting ring,” and eventually an outdoor pool area, it’s the perfect place for a town full of uptight suburbanites to let loose. Thus begins Scott and Kate’s rise as suburbanite gangsters — until the real gangsters show up to crash the party.
The predictability of The House’s narrative arc is slightly disappointing: Ferrell and Peohler’s comedic histories and Cohen’s experience working with Judd Apatow set expectations for comedic ingenuity that the film doesn’t really deliver on. The House’s premise is clever, and Poehler and Ferrell’s delivery does a lot to sell the jokes, but in the end these characters mostly do and say exactly what anyone who’s seen a “that escalated quickly” comedy expects they will: get wasted, slow-motion party, rub money all over themselves, wield blowtorches, pee in inappropriate places, and eventually succeed in sending their kid to school. Basically, they mess things up and then put them back together again.
Still, The House’s clear dedication to the onscreen relationship between Poehler and Ferrell as two happily married parents compelled by their desire that their daughter do better than they did shouldn’t go unappreciated. And while their relationship does mirror aspects of the central couple Cohen wrote for Neighbors, Ferrell and Poehler bring a genuine relatability to the film’s more ridiculous moments (like a slow-motion screaming match across a craps table). Cohen also cleverly utilizes his own creative theme of “couples making bad decisions together” to ensure that when Kate and Scott come out on the other side of this fiasco, they’re still people viewers will like. The Johansens are an all-American couple who are trying to do the best for their daughter and each other — they just happen to be doing it by turning a friend’s home into a den of vice.
Poehler and Ferrell have both molded their signature comedic styles into viable brands over the years, and those brands are central to their characters in The House. Ferrell’s over-the-top reactions and habit of spitting out random, totally inappropriate words to answer questions is on full display here, as is Poehler's charming straight-man condescension and ability to both play on and play up someone else’s jokes. But Ferrell never loses his signature naive sincerity, while Poehler — even while high — remains the more realistic harebrained logician. Meanwhile, Mantzoukas’s seemingly inexhaustible manic energy, even when he’s stabbed, keeps things from ever feeling too nice or grounded.
The leads’ easy comedic chemistry is central to The House’s success, helping keep the characters at the center of this harebrained scheme engaging and endearing. Even as they’re roughing up their neighbors, pushing their daughter’s friends across the room, or destroying store items in a hungover haze, the Johansens still feel pretty likable.
Just as essential to the likability of the Johansens — and by extension The House — is the timeliness and relevance of the movie’s central premise.
Sending kids to college is becoming an increasingly bigger burden for American families, as the path to higher education faces challenges to federal aid funds, long-term personal saving, and tuition increases. At both private and pubic universities, a bachelor's degree can cost more than a first home or car. The 2015 National Student Financial Wellness Study, which surveyed approximated 18,795 undergraduate students at 52 colleges and universities across the country, found that seven in 10 students reported feeling stressed about their personal finances, while nearly 60 percent of the respondents said they worried about having enough money to pay for school. A 2012 Sallie Mae study found that 60 percent of parents thought the most difficult aspect of sending a child to college was figuring out how to cover the costs of attending.
In making the Johansens’ struggle to pay for their daughter’s $50,000 yearly tuition central to its comedic premise, The House smartly leans into viewers’ anxieties around higher education and its attendant economic struggles. While there’s nothing directly humorous about the struggle to pay for college, The House does what good comedy does: It uses humor as a coping mechanism. In the midst of what feels like a dark time, The House offers relief in its assertion that it’s okay to laugh at the lengths to which we must go to get by — up to and including an accidentally severed finger.
The ever-growing glut of TV, movies, books, music, comics, and podcasts can be a lot to keep up with. So we here at Vox Culture — where our current obsessions include a new Hamilton music video, RuPaul’s Drag Race, and a nifty webcomics archive — have a few suggestions for how to make the best use of your pop culture–consuming time.
Here are some items you should really consider checking out.
Hamilton creator Lin-Manuel Miranda and Somali poet-rapper K’Naan hail “America’s ghostwriters” in this searing six-minute takedown of the Trump administration’s anti-immigration policies. Featuring the work of immigrant creatives including British Pakistani actor Riz Ahmed (The Night Of, Girls), Puerto Rican rapper Residente, and Mexican-American rapper Snow Tha Product, the video tackles a host of charged social issues, from deportation to underpaid immigrant labor to Syrian refugees. It’s a pointed reminder that now more than ever, you can’t separate Hamilton’s multicultural artistry from political attempts to disenfranchise the real people who make America great. —Aja Romano
Daryl Gregory’s Spoonbenders is the kind of novel where you can practically feel the inevitable TV adaptation taking shape as you read it. But that doesn’t have to be a bad thing. This sort of high-concept beach read is exactly what you want to have under your arm as a long and lazy summer unfolds.
The book’s conceit is that the Telemachus family, formed when a con man fell for a woman imbued with immense reserves of psychic power, fell into disgrace after a disastrous appearance on a talk show in the ’70s. Now it’s the mid-’90s, the family has fallen to ruin, and the government is wondering if perhaps there’s still a little psychic energy left in their midst. Gregory’s characters are brightly drawn, and he neatly captures the world of the early internet. But the real fun is in seeing how his intricately constructed puzzle comes together in the end. —Todd VanDerWerff
The new video for “Element” promptly shot to the top of YouTube’s trending list following its unexpected Tuesday release. The song, which explores Lamar's relationship to his community and his black identity in the wake of his rap success, appears on Lamar’s recent album DAMN, and the video, directed by photographer Jonas Lindstroem, is a tour de force of arresting visuals, with multiple shots recreating the work of black photojournalist Gordon Parks. It’s a powerful continuation of Lamar’s exploration of black community amid systemic violence, with gorgeous imagery of young black men metaphorically awakening to their own power. —AR
Earlier this month, America’s oldest federal cultural institution launched the first phase of its new digital archive dedicated solely to internet-based comics. Typically free to read and updated regularly, webcomics have become notable their contemporary artistry and for featuring characters and themes typically marginalized by the mainstream comics industry.
The archive is free to peruse and currently contains 41 titles, including the award-winning JL8, which follows DC Comics characters in elementary school. Other titles of interest: As the Crow Flies, the serialized story of a queer 13-year-old girl stranded in an all-white Christian backpacking camp, and xkcd, a series of standalone entries featuring stick figures, romance, sarcasm, and math. Though all of the comics within the archive are also available at their own websites, it’s a great place to discover a new title or three. —Abbey White
I have no idea what most of the lyrics are to “As If It’s Your Last,” or what they mean. I just know that resistance is futile when it comes to Blackpink’s latest single, thanks to its undeniable bop, ’80s-inspired beat (think Carly Rae Jepsen’s “Cut to the Feeling”), and infectious hook. And for some strange reason, the song makes me believe I am agile enough to roller-skate.
Historically, K-pop bands have had trouble finding footing in the US, but with a playful single like “As If It’s Your Last,” an accompanying music video that looks like it was dipped in radioactive candy, and a catalog full of still-undiscovered (at least in America) hits, Blackpink have as good a chance as any at changing that. —Alex Abad-Santos
Given that Vince Staples’s debut, 2015’s Summertime ’06, was one of the leanest, most economical double albums in a genre known for superfluous features and extraneous tracks, it makes sense that the artist’s second LP is a 36-minute high that feels like a party scene shot by Danny Boyle. With a bevy of well known electronic producers in tow, plus Kendrick Lamar and Gorillaz frontman Damon Albarn contributing, Staples’s Big Fish Theory is a frenetic examination of the responsibilities, perks, and drawbacks of newfound fame. Thematically, the album overlaps with Lamar’s DAMN, but Staples’s pitch-black sensibility, candor, and incisive lyrics converge to craft a wholly unique and equally important take. Part brain food, part bangers, Big Fish Theory is your antidote to empty-calorie summer music. —Grant Rindner
You may not know portrait photographer Elsa Dorfman’s name, but you’ve seen her work: Since the 1960s, she’s shot huge, revealing portraits of some of the most notable names in popular culture, from Bob Dylan to Jorge Luis Borges. Now, in The B-Side (which just hit theaters), documentarian Errol Morris (The Thin Blue Line) turns his camera on her, letting the kind and self-effacing artist tell her story — from her invention of a proto–selfie stick long before anyone thought of such a thing to the large-format work she's doing today. Dorfman is the exact opposite of the stereotypical tortured artist, which probably makes her a bit of a radical. Listening to her talk about her life and work in The B-Side is both inspiring and strangely calming. —Alissa Wilkinson
I’ll say it: There’s no reality show on television that’s more spectacular or downright fun than RuPaul’s Drag Race, the drag queen competition series that’s captured viewers’ hearts and minds and dreams of contoured glory for eight years now. In keeping with drag tradition, competitors must perform, write new material, and sew while keeping their stiletto-sharp wits about them, making Drag Race a reality-show triple threat. The ninth season just wrapped on June 23, so you can watch the whole thing at your leisure, or go back in Drag Race herstory with some of the earlier seasons. Seasons five through seven are available to stream on Amazon Prime; seasons two through nine are available to buy on Amazon and iTunes. —Caroline Framke
Controversial author David Paulides has made it his mission to discover the stories behind the surprisingly high number of people who go missing in the middle of nowhere, in remote corners of America’s national parks and other wilderness areas. And while most of those disappearances have completely logical explanations — like “somebody fell off a cliff” logical — some of them are downright mysterious and eerie, with bodies seeming to appear in places they simply shouldn’t be. Paulides often suggests (sometimes directly; sometimes in so many words) that something beyond human comprehension might be at play, even if “beyond human comprehension” just means “a serial killer far more prolific than any other in history.”
The result might mean you think most of what he’s saying is bullshit, and he is weirdly fond of talking about Bigfoot. But he’s also a fascinating subject for a documentary. Enter Missing 411, which probably could do a little more to wrestle with the fact that Paulides is simultaneously one of the few investigators doggedly concerned with these disappearances and someone who seems to believe some very strange things. (Then again, it’s based on his books, and he produced it, so maybe not.) But it’s also the perfect movie for anyone who’s ever stayed up too late reading a Reddit thread full of park rangers’ spooky stories, and, if nothing else, a fascinating portrait of its subject. (Missing 411 is available to rent on Amazon and iTunes.) —TV
Sense8 fans were incensed when Netflix announced it was going to cut the sci-fi series short after two seasons, but per co-creator Lana Wachowski, they’ll get one last chance to say goodbye to the Cluster after all.
In a statement posted to Twitter, Wachowski addressed the cancellation, which was both a surprise, given Netflix’s traditional reluctance to cancel shows, and not so much, given Sense8’s reportedly astronomical globetrotting budget. She shared her feelings on the cancellation, saying it “hollowed me out,” and expressed gratitude for the fact that she’ll get to address the season two cliffhanger and resolve the show for real.
“It is my great pleasure as well as Netflix’s (believe me, they love the show as much as we do, but the numbers have always been challenging) to announce that there will be another two hour special released next year,” Wachowski wrote. “After that ... if this experience has taught me anything, you NEVER know.”
Death doesn't let you say goodbye. 2 hour finale episode in the works. Tell your cluster. pic.twitter.com/GHZgGuHwS0
Wachowski’s passionate statement suggests that the fan uproar was perhaps the deciding factor in getting the show back off the ground for one last ride. She thanked the fans for making their outrage so loudly known via hashtags (#BringBackSense8) and petitions for Netflix to renew the show, one of which garnered more than half a million signatures.
“The passionate letters, the petitions, the collective voice that rose up like the fist of Sun to fight for this show was beyond what anyone was expecting,” said Wachowski. “... improbably, unforeseeably, your love has brought Sense8 back to life.”
Related
This is a startling assertion, especially given the fact that just a few weeks ago, Netflix released its own statement in response to the pushback: “We’ve seen the petitions. We’ve read the messages ... we wish we could #BringBackSense8 for you ... [but] we’ve thought long and hard here at Netflix to try to make it work but unfortunately we can’t.”
So while it’s probably true that Netflix was taken aback by the level of enthusiasm fans expressed for the show given its lackluster numbers (another thing we have to take on faith, seeing as Netflix has never revealed its viewership stats), a petition probably wasn’t the crux of the streaming platform’s decision to bring Sense8 back to life; as Wachowski acknowledges in her letter, fan love is still often viewed as “less important than the bottom line.”
But in this instance — thanks to some combination of timing, the Wachowskis’ considerable pull, and the fact that a two-hour special is much more feasible than an entire new season — the chips seem to have fallen in Sense8’s favor.
Just as it did in 2015 and 2016, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has smashed previous records for the number of new membership invitations it has issued to creatives in the film industry.
The Academy lavishly announced Wednesday that it had invited a record 774 new members to join the “class of 2017,” a number well over last year’s record-breaking 683 invites, which itself was more than double the previous year’s record-breaking number of 322 invites.
In a dynamic website presentation, the Academy celebrated its commitment to diversifying its membership, noting that 39 percent of this year’s invitees were women and 30 percent were people of color.
But the Academy might not want to get too congratulatory, too quickly. While the industry is clearly making efforts to diversify, this year’s crop of new members is actually less diverse than last year’s — and the Academy overall still remains deeply skewed toward white, male members of the industry.
The expanded membership offerings are part of the Academy’s continued efforts to diversify in response to ongoing backlash about the systemic whiteness of the awards and voting process. Indeed, this year’s Academy Awards ceremony, which gave the Best Picture award to Moonlight, seemed to help counter a traditionally bland awards system that tends to favor blander, bigger films over outsider films — though most of the evening’s honors went to the favorite, La La Land. Presumably, the Academy’s rapidly diversifying membership will help this trend continue.
But while the Academy is eager to tout its growth rates, its overall membership is still woefully homogeneous — and despite the record numbers, the Academy’s push toward greater diversity may actually be slowing. Specifically, last year, 46 and 41 percent of the Academy’s 683 newly issued invites went to women and people of color, respectively. This year, those percentages are significantly lower, with just 39 percent of the total invites going to women and 30 percent going to people of color.
And the percentage shift isn’t just a result of the greater number of invitees overall: even though the total number of invites increased in 2017, the number of women and people of color invited overall actually decreased — from 314 women invited in 2016 to just 301 women in 2017, and from 280 people of color in 2016 to 232 in 2017. And those new members are entering an ever-larger pool of longtime Academy voters who potentially dilute the effects of any incoming diversity.
A glance at its charts for overall membership reveals that while it may be attempting to make up for lost time with record numbers of invites, the Academy, by its own admission, is still incredibly non-diverse. The overall number of women in the Academy is just 28 percent:
And the overall number of people of color is barely out of the single digits:
Still, there are plenty of reasons to be excited about this year’s incumbents — along with plenty of reasons to look askance at the Academy for waiting so long to invite more than a few industry legends.
Among this year’s crop of new inductees were a number of recently ascendant Hollywood A-listers — particularly several of the famed Hollywood Chrises — Chris Pratt, Chris Evans, and Chris Hemsworth. (Chris Pine received his invite in 2015.)
Lin Manuel-Miranda, Rogue One’s Riz Ahmed, The Beguiled’s Elle Fanning, Ruth Negga, Janelle Monáe, Donald Glover, and Jordan Peele (invited as a director for Get Out) are a few of the many names on the list who’ve received invites after doing highly lauded work within the past year. The list also includes a significant number of established directors whose films have recently made waves in Hollywood — notably, Barry Jenkins, director of Moonlight, and Theodore Melfi, director of Hidden Figures. Though Jenkins had only directed one feature film before, Melfi’s career was extensive, so it’s a bit surprising to see them all on the list together following their breakout hits. But then, such is the way of the Academy, which places these breakout names alongside bona fide legends like Japanese director Takashi Miike, finally getting his Academy invite after a long, prolific career helming movies like Audition, Ichi the Killer, and 13 Assassins.
A number of other film veterans both international and local made the scene — including longtime international superstars like Baywatch’s Priyanka Chopra and Hong Kong New Wave legends Tony Leung, Carina Lau, and Maggie Cheung. Sisters Debbie Allen and Phylicia Rashad were invited jointly, while actors like Jon Hamm, Betty White, and Ciarán Hinds also got their chance to make their mark on the Academy after years of solid industry work.
In the “how was this person not already a member?” category, we have actors like Viggo Mortensen, martial arts star Donnie Yen, and Amy Poehler, as well as Justin Timberlake and legendary musician Nick Cave. The Russo brothers (Anthony and Joe, known for directing the Captain America films for Marvel), Guy Ritchie, Simon Pegg, and Joss Whedon also stand out among the litany of industry veterans the Academy seems to have taken a surprisingly long time to invite.
What’s especially telling about this list is that it includes so many women with long industry credits, each of whom seemingly should have been invited years prior to this, because it seems their Academy credentials were earned long ago. These include a number of longtime women film editors, each with about 30 credits to their name according to IMDB: Monika Willi, Tracy Granger, French editor Alexandra Strauss, and Lars Von Trier’s go-to editor, Molly Marlene Stensgaard.
Set designer Beverly Dunn actually won the Academy Award for The Great Gatsby in 2013, yet she only finally received her membership invitation four years later, amid a self-conscious attempt by the Academy to find more women to include. Given the number of industry figures who have been immediately invited less than a year after prominent Academy wins, nominations, and blockbuster hits, it’s hard not to see this as yet another sign that the Academy has a long way to go — not only to truly diversify, but to stop overlooking women and people of color with long, lauded careers within the industry.
The Reagan Show does something that counts as a radical act these days: It looks back at history — actual history — by letting historical footage speak for itself, without any talking heads to tell us what to think. And rather than explicitly drawing the lines between events in the 1980s and America’s politics in 2017, it trusts the audience to do that for themselves.
The film chronicles the Reagan administration, building its narrative entirely through news reports and footage shot by the administration itself. It takes the president’s former work as an actor and one of his common nicknames — “the Great Communicator” — as its jumping-off point, opening with a very prescient-seeming clip of Reagan telling newscaster David Brinkley, at the end of his time in office, that “there have been times in this office when I wonder how you could do the job without having been an actor.”
Rating
Through such footage, The Reagan Show makes the case that the former actor’s onscreen experience was a perfect training ground for his presidency. Reagan’s administration, it explains in one of the film’s few captions, is remarkable for its unprecedented use of film and television to document his presidency — so much so that it generated more footage than the previous five administrations combined.
That footage is a gold mine for directors Sierra Pettengill and Pacho Velez. There are shots of Reagan recording a friendly New Year’s greeting to the Soviet people, then uttering, “Take that, Mr. Gorbachev” while the camera’s still rolling. There are outtakes of him speaking more freely than he ever did on camera, cut in with more traditional news footage that interprets the events taking place.
The film’s arc is that of a three-act TV movie, and it not-so-subtly suggests that Reagan — a Hollywood veteran known for playing the affable good guy — consciously structured his years in office on the same principles and story elements that Hollywood films have long used to keep fans engaged. The main plot points are the Strategic Defense Initiative (a.k.a. Star Wars), the Iran-Contra scandal, and Reagan’s talks with Mikhail Gorbachev — each a dramatic world affair that served as both an “act break” in the presidency and gave new shape and meaning to the legacy Reagan was hoping to leave behind when his presidency reached its finale.
The film is critical of Reagan, to be sure, bringing in voices that question his control of his own administration and his ability to actually make decisions; the implication is that he may have been more glitz than substance, with others doing the heavy lifting.
But there’s admiration and maybe even nostalgia mixed in, even if it feels like a prophetic omen. (The Reagan Show drops in a few clips of the president talking about “making American great again,” to connect the dots). If it is actually true that Reagan was mostly a showman, he was good at keeping the seams of his performance from showing. And if you’re going to pick something to structure your presidency on, it seems to suggest, maybe a movie — which ideally has narrative coherence — is a better model than reality TV.
What keeps The Reagan Show from becoming a polemic is one brilliant move: Save for a few explanatory captions, there’s not one present-day talking head or commentator present in the film. Figures from today’s politics and media show up, of course, but only because they were part of the story back then. There’s nobody sitting in 2017 reflecting on what it was like to live in American in the 1980s. Instead, all we see is real-time media reports and footage. The film lets history comment on itself. And so, rather than coming off as a condescending “told you so,” the film makes us feel like it’s letting us in on the secret.
It turns out reflecting on the past is a terrific way to cast light on the present, and to offer some warning hints about the future. Adding talking heads might have made the film feel far too heavy-handed, but by letting the past speak for itself, The Reagan Show stays both sober and light on its feet.
The Reagan Show will release in theaters on June 30 and VOD on July 4, and will air on CNN soon after.
Seth Meyers’s “A Closer Look” segment has become the most reliable news breakdown in late-night television, and his June 28 take on Donald Trump, Trump’s obsession with the media’s portrayal of him, and how his ego is playing into the ongoing health care debate was no exception.
Take Trump’s recent tweets tearing down Amazon and the Washington Post. As Meyers noted, these came after a Washington Post report that some of the clubhouses at Trump-owned golf courses feature a framed 2009 Time magazine cover lauding Trump and The Apprentice that does not, in fact, exist.
“Trump hung a fake Time magazine cover with his face on it in his private golf clubs,” repeated Meyers in awe. “That is the literal definition of fake news.”
But what makes Meyers’s Closer Look segments so good is that they never focus on just one anecdote or headline, instead together tying related stories to create a larger picture of why one particular piece is crucial to understanding the whole.
“While Trump tweets crazy things,” Meyers said, “the far more urgent thing happening in Washington right now is the GOP’s attempt to ram through their health care bill.”
Given Trump’s unpredictable temperament, it’s not entirely surprising that, as Meyers pointed out on Wednesday, Republicans are largely trying to craft and pass this legislation without the help of the president himself. In one example Meyers shared, Sen. John Cornyn told CNN that Republicans are straight up “trying to hold him back a little bit.” But as Meyers noted in response, “You can only cage the bear for so long. Eventually, he’s gonna bust out.”
Meyers was immediately proved right on Thursday morning, as Trump attacked MSNBC’s Mika Brzezinski on Twitter for her “low IQ” and “bleeding badly ... facelift.” But even before the president delivered that jaw-dropping commentary, Meyers had used his well-honed wry analysis to zero in on what Trump’s ongoing war with the media, his soft spot for Fox News, and his notoriously thin skin mean for his administration’s ongoing policy goals — and the millions who stand to lose insurance should the current version of the Senate’s health care bill pass.
At one point, Meyers played a clip of a contributor on Fox News — the news network the president routinely watches and retweets — laughing that, hey, “the crazy thing is, we’re all gonna die!” and “unless they’re absolutely psychic and have a party line to heaven, they don’t know who’s gonna die or when!”
“Imagine if your doctor came back with your test results,” Meyers said, “and told you, ‘I have good news and bad news, and the good news is we’re all gonna die...’”
The notion that “we’re all gonna die” isn’t exactly fake news. But it’s also not a reassuring stance to take as Republicans keep fumbling to craft a health care bill that won’t immediately cause an uproar, all while walking on eggshells around a president so concerned with unflattering news reports that his own properties resort to framing a fabricated positive one.
You can watch the full Closer Look segment (“Trump Tweets While Republicans Huddle on Health Care”) in the clip above.
On Tuesday this week, Michael Bond, the author of the beloved Paddington Bear books, died at age 91, his publisher announced.
The news was greeted with the kind of nostalgic articles honoring Paddington’s legacy that you would expect following the death of any iconic children’s author: The 10 Paddington Bear Quotes That Will Always Inspire Joy, Paddington Bear Quotes Reveal He Was A Wise & Loving Children's Icon.
But there’s an unexpected political angle to this news, too. Because Paddington Bear isn’t just any beloved children’s character. He’s an illegal immigrant.
Paddington Bear arrived in London in 1958 with nothing but the clothes on his back, a suitcase full of marmalade, and a sign that said, “PLEASE LOOK AFTER THIS BEAR. Thank you.”
“You’re a very small bear,” says kind-hearted Mrs. Brown when she finds him in Paddington station. “Where are you from?”
Before he replies, Paddington looks carefully around for authority figures. “Darkest Peru. I’m not really supposed to be here at all. I’m a stowaway.”
“You’ll be one of the family,” Mrs. Brown promises him, and she takes him home with her.
Paddington was inspired in part, Michael Bond has said, by his memories of watching evacuee children pass through Reading station from London during the Blitz. “They all had a label round their neck with their name and address on and a little case or package containing all their treasured possessions,” he told the Guardian in 2014. “So Paddington, in a sense, was a refugee, and I do think that there’s no sadder sight than refugees.”
Immigration has been part of Paddington’s story from the beginning, but it became more explicit in 2014, when the movie adaptation of Paddington hit London just as pre-Brexit antipathy toward immigration was ratcheting up. One review was titled, “Why Paddington is anti-Ukip propaganda.” An immigration lawyer reviewed the movie and concluded grimly that “I would … assess Paddington’s prospects of success before an immigration judge as virtually zero.”
Now, in the wake of Brexit and the Trump presidency, Paddington’s plight seems more urgent than ever. In Paddington, Bond “gave us a salutary fable,” Rebecca Mead wrote for the New Yorker’s website, “showing how vital that new arrival’s [the immigrant’s] contribution might be—how it might enrich a culture that extends back before even forgotten Anglo-Saxon chiefs—when good will prevails.”
Bond’s death is being treated not just as the death of an iconic children’s author, but as the death of a particular kind of cosmopolitan and globalist sensibility, in which when a person sees someone with nothing asking for help, regardless of where they might come from, the only decent and sensible thing to do is to help them.
RIP #MichaelBond. We'll look after #Paddington for you. pic.twitter.com/gqkxCwgRhm
Bond didn’t only give us Paddington, the lovable and morally upright illegal immigrant. He gave us Mrs. Brown, whose first impulse upon seeing Paddington is to make him a member of her own family. And today, with anti-immigration antipathy ever on the rise, Mrs. Browns seem to be more scarce than ever before.
Spider-Man: Homecoming is a flat-out triumph. Calling it anything would be selling it maddeningly short.
Directed by Jon Watts, Homecoming is a joyful celebration of Spider-Man, a character who’s arguably the most popular Marvel superhero in history. But the movie thankfully doesn’t just rehash what we already know, and Watts makes a few savvy choices to give the iconic webslinger a fresh feel.
Spider-Man: Homecoming is a movie that fans have been waiting for, and it’s a movie that — for its action scenes alone — demands to be seen in theaters. Aside from the typical Marvel dazzle, the performances from star Tom Holland (as Spidey) and Michael Keaton (as the villain, Vulture) are stellar. And Homecoming is fearless in being a teen movie that never forgets that its star is still in high school, which stays true to the spirit of Spider-Man.
Vox will have a full review of Spider-Man: Homecoming closer to when the film opens on Friday, July 7. But for now, here are five great things to know about it.
Tom Holland’s Peter Parker was easily the best thing about 2016’s Captain America: Civil War — he gave the movie much-needed lightness and joyfulness. But I went into Homecoming feeling a little unsure of how that hero, as winsome as he was, would carry an entire movie; since a lot of his character’s appeal in Civil War was that he was able to play off of the stoicism and sternness of the superheroes around him.
About 20 minutes in, Holland vaporized any concern I had.
In Civil War, we got a glimpse of Holland’s charm and stellar comedic chemistry with Robert Downey Jr.’s Tony Stark. In his expanded role, Holland builds on that foundation he established in Civil War and gives Peter Parker a rounded awkwardness and youthful, restless spirit. He makes Peter feel like your childhood best friend — the type of kid you don’t want to see anything bad happen to. But then, as Homecoming unfolds, Peter becomes more aspirational — the kind of kid you didn’t know you wanted to be.
And more than any Marvel superhero before him, Peter Parker is vulnerable. This is a teenager who, in the comic books, experiences loss (see: his Uncle Ben and the love of his young life, Gwen Stacy). His life is a frustrating, jagged journey in figuring out what kind of man he is. In Holland’s nimble hands, Peter sheds tears and aches with heartbreak.
Holland is having so much fun and is so convincing in this role that he creates the most relatable and most human Marvel hero. He’s the best Spider-Man who’s ever been onscreen.
The meta-humor behind Michael Keaton’s villain is that he played a megalomaniacal, bird-inspired ex-superhero in Birdman (2014), the odd, sardonic superhero satire from Alejandro González Iñárritu that was named Best Picture at the 2015 Oscars. Now, in Homecoming, Keaton is playing one of Spider-Man’s classic nemeses, Adrian Toomes, a.k.a. the Vulture.
But even putting that strange meta-irony aside, Keaton is chilling as Toomes. Keaton knows how to flash his own brand of sinister, sharpening the spikiness in his voice and conveying heat in his eyes. But the compelling thing about Toomes is that, like a lot the very best comic villains, he’s impossibly human.
You get the sense that if Toomes had just had one lucky break in life, he could’ve easily become a hero in this world of gods and monsters. Keaton homes in on that, making a case for Toomes, giving him a cogent point of view. He’s not evil for evil’s sake. You won’t necessarily agree with his motives, but you’ll understand why he’s chosen the path he’s on.
Spider-Man is essentially the first teenage superhero who’s also a headliner. Before him, teenage superheroes (think: characters like Robin) were plucky sidekicks (not unlike the role Holland played in Civil War). But Peter Parker rose above that status and became a character who brought to life and gave relevance to the terrifying unsureness of being a teen.
Homecoming stays true to that spirit and carves out a teen experience for Peter that feels so unmistakably familiar. It may make you long for your teenage innocence, and that’s a feat in itself.
What’s even more fascinating is how the film evokes nostalgia for a teenage high school experience that, being honest, many of us probably didn’t have.
The kids in Peter’s school are gifted. There are no smug jocks, mean girls, or other antiquated tropes about social hierarchy. For the most part, the kids are allowed to be kids. But even in this post-modern, post-trope high school setting, the fears of rejection, the yearning for belonging, and the aching loneliness still exist.
What’s it like to be a kid at a time where heroes aren’t myths? What’s it like when your heroes let you down? And for Peter Parker, what’s it like to let them down?
The chaotic world around these kids has turned their adolescence into a sort of charade, because they’ve all had to grow up with death and destruction around them. Prom, pop quizzes, college, and crushes might seem inconsequential compared to the seriousness of alien invasions and Captain America going rogue. But perhaps, as Homecoming explores, those teenage moments are more crucial to growing up than ever.
It’s a strange coincidence that Spider-Man: Homecoming has an invisible plane, and that in Wonder Woman, a man who she can’t save dies and teaches a hero a lesson about responsibility. That’s a flagrant glitch in the comic book matrix. (It’s usually the other way around.)
But I am thankful for Spider-Man’s jet, the acrobatic choreography of Peter Parker zipping through New York City, and all of the movie’s fizzy, absolutely glee-inducing fight scenes. They’re every bit as splendid and as pleasurable as they were imagined in Steve Ditko and Stan Lee’s original comic books.
Spider-Man is a unique hero in that there’s a fair bit of comedic physics going on whenever he performs his heroism. He’s not a brawler like Captain America or Hulk nor is he a gizmo-reliant technophile the way Iron Man is, and he can’t call down lightning like Thor. Spidey is also leaner and meaner than his superhero cohort — he’s not muscling his way to solutions.
It’s about momentum and tension in Homecoming’s action sequences. He slings and flip himself toward bad guys in moments that are both fearless and silly. He’s graceful until he’s not. He’s not a martial arts expert (yet), so it’s more like go-for-broke, wish-for-the-best flailing.
And since Spider-Man can’t fly nor is he old enough to even drive a car, he has to swing from building to building. If there are no buildings, Spider-Man is just like the rest of New Yorkers: He runs or takes the subway.
Marvel superhero fights onscreen convey a visual language. Black Widow is sleek, agile grace. Hulk is sheer power. Thor is shock and awe. Iron Man is stylish tech. But it’s Spidey’s brand of elastic silliness that I think I love most.
When I was leaving the theater after my Spider-Man: Homecoming screening, the friend I saw it with mentioned that Marvel’s superhero movies can often feel like “competence porn.”
When a Marvel superhero is “born,” he explained, all it takes is a snap of the fingers, or a syringe of supersoldier serum or Hank Pym’s magic shrinking formula, a montage, and boom: The hero in question becomes a high-performance do-gooder, fully in command of their newfound super strength, their agility, their super suit, their vibranium shield, and whatever powers they have.
Homecoming is a stark contrast to that.
Instead of repeating Spidey’s signature catchphrase, “with great power comes great responsibility,” Homecoming opts to show us what this idea looks like in practice. We see him soar through the sky with all these gizmos in his new suit, and then completely bork the landing. We see him put people in danger because of teenage stubbornness. We see him fail over and over again.
At some point, watching Spider-Man biff up another scenario becomes an exercise in cringe. But it absolutely works in making Spidey’s credo, and the spirit of his character, crystal clear.
The best way I can find to describe Mackenzi Lee’s new book The Gentleman’s Guide to Vice and Virtue is as a gay Regency road trip heist YA romance/adventure, with alchemy. It’s a warm and joyous romp of a book, with a beautifully constructed romance and a thoughtful examination of intersectional privilege. And it’s possibly the most purely fun book I’ve encountered in ages.
Rating
Henry Montague — Henry to his terrible father, Monty to his friends — is a dissolute young viscount on his grand tour through Europe, accompanied by his best friend Percy and his intellectual little sister Felicity. For Monty, the tour is a lifeline; it’s his chance to drink and gamble and otherwise behave badly before he is forced to tend to his father’s estate and Percy must go off to law school in Holland. But things don’t quite go as planned.
Complicating matters is the following:
As the group slowly makes its way through Europe, Monty scrambles to find a way to save them from the people who want the alchemical device, to keep the party alive with no money and few resources, and to save Percy, ideally while winning his heart in the process.
Monty’s chief tool in this endeavor is his charm, and refreshingly, said charm is only occasionally formidable enough to get things done. As the story continues, Monty realizes he must increasingly lean on Felicity’s intellect — she longs to be a doctor — and Percy’s good-natured common sense.
As he relies more and more on his companions, Monty must not only destroy his image of himself as a hero, but also his belief that his own life is uniquely painful. Monty is a bisexual man in Regency England, and he has an abusive father. As such, he is used to seeing himself as an exceptionally tragic figure — but he is also a wealthy male white nobleman, with all the education and opportunity such a position implies.
Meanwhile, Felicity must educate herself in secret, covertly relying on books, and is bound for finishing school with no chance of ever becoming a doctor; she will probably be forced to marry, even though she is fairly certain she is asexual. And Percy is not only bound for a life of misery in a sanitarium due to his epilepsy; he is also illegitimate and black. What Monty realizes over the course of the book is not that his own life is not so bad, but that his suffering is not unique, and that the people he loves the most have their own tragedies to deal with.
To Lee’s credit, none of the social commentary in The Gentleman’s Guide to Vice and Virtue comes off as didactic: There is no eat-your-vegetables dutifulness to this creampuff of a book. Monty’s education in intersectional privilege and oppression is a fundamental part of his character arc, and serves as the foundation of his growing ability to empathize with people other than himself — but as he learns and grows, he maintains his breezy charm, and so does the book.
In the end, the beating heart of the story is Monty’s love for Percy, which develops into a deeply satisfying romance. You feel every bit of Monty’s wistful yearning, and all of his elation whenever he begins to suspect that Percy might actually return his feelings.
The result is an immensely witty and rollicking adventure, a warm-hearted treat you can easily breeze through over a weekend. The Gentleman’s Guide to Vice and Virtue is a purely delightful read, perfect for summer.
“You know, I saw the evil twin twist coming,” I remarked as the series finale of Pretty Little Liars drew to a close Tuesday night, “but I never thought she’d be British.”
Pretty Little Liars has always been a minor camp masterpiece. It’s a show in which multiple characters have slowly and dramatically reached up to peel back their faces, revealing that it wasn’t Dead Detective Wilden lurking in the shadows — it was Archer Dunhill in a rubber mask all along! It’s a show in which a teenage girl became a Machiavellian super genius because she lived in an adrenalized state of hyperreality that made her omniscient. It’s a show in which a masked supervillain named “A” painstakingly replaced every letter in a box of alphabet cereal with the letter A, resealed the box, and planted it where her victim would be sure to find and purchase it, just to freak people out.
But Pretty Little Liars never executed its reveals with the winking self-awareness of a more grounded show like Jane the Virgin (also a fan of the rubber mask move). Pretty Little Liars always remained deeply committed to its camp, which it took extremely seriously.
Fittingly, the secret evil twin trope has been a beloved camp staple ever since Bewitched’s Samantha and I Dream of Jeannie’s Jeannie had to face off against their evil brunette twin counterparts in the ‘60s. So when in its series finale, Pretty Little Liars revealed that the archvillain was a secret evil twin whose existence we technically didn’t know about until the very last hour of the seventh and final season, it felt right. And when the series revealed that the secret evil twin had a comically overdone British accent? Well, that was just icing on the cake.
People have been writing stories about twins for about as long as they have been writing stories. Twins show up in classical drama and in Shakespeare; they’re all over the canon. That’s because twins make for fantastic narrative engines: For the non-twin characters who can’t distinguish between the two, they’re agents of chaos, wreaking havoc on the status quo. For the twins themselves, having a double creates a way of thinking about the boundary between the public self (the good twin) and the private self (the evil twin).
Evil twins became a TV trope in the ‘60s, when everyone who was anyone had to face off against their secret double. Usually there was a single telling detail to distinguish one twin from another: Mirror Spock had a goatee, Samantha’s evil twin Serena had a black wig and a beauty mark, and evil Jeannie was a brunette.
Daytime soaps got in on the trend in 1969, when The Secret Storm’s Dr. Ian Northcoate battled his evil twin Owen, and they never looked back. Soaps found that the twin trope worked for them on multiple levels: Not only did the evil twin trope drive the plot, but it also provided a good way of keeping around actors you like after you’ve killed off their characters. Now, the evil twin trope is a staple of the genre.
Pretty Little Liars has been teasing the possibility of deploying the evil twin trope for years. In its source material, a series of books by Sara Shepard, the archvillain “Uber A” was the secret evil twin of the girl whose mysterious disappearance kicked off the whole story to begin with. (The main characters all thought the girl who vanished was Alison, but it turned out that the missing girl was Courtney, Alison’s secret twin who lived in a mental hospital and had managed to switch places with Alison. The real Alison had escaped from the mental hospital, murdered Courtney and decided to torture the main characters to get revenge on them for lowering her social status by befriending Courtney/Alison; it’s a long story.) Every so often, Pretty Little Liars likes to throw out a spooky Halloween episode about twins, and most of its major mysteries have involved a few doppelgängers here and there.
And twins are a perfect fit for Pretty Little Liars’ particular brand of camp. It’s a show that does plot by throwing one absurdity after another at the wall, which means it thrives on the chaos the secret twin trope produces. Thematically, it’s always been devoted to the question of what it feels like to be a teenage girl constantly under surveillance from the rest of the world. For teen girls who are hyper aware of being watched, the question of how the public self diverges from the private self — the question that the twin trope naturally lends itself toward investigating — is paramount.
Related
So when Spencer (the Pretty Little Liars protagonists’ de facto leader, played by Troian Bellisario with unnerving intensity) appeared in what seemed to be a dream sequence at the beginning of season seven without her signature bangs, fans leapt on the moment. Everyone knows what it means when you see a main character with different hair: It means it’s time for a twin. Clearly, fans declared, the scene was no dream sequence. It was the introduction of Spencer’s secret evil bang-less twin.
Spencer’s secret evil twin, we learned in the series finale, is named Alex Drake, and she makes 100 percent no sense. In a flashback that is a blatant ripoff of/homage to Orphan Black, we learn that Alex grew up in London, where she managed to fall in with one of Spencer’s previous arch-nemeses (Charlotte, now dead), and then devoted herself to carrying on Charlotte’s legacy and destroying her twin.
On a purely narrative level, Alex is a completely unsatisfying cop-out of a resolution. Her motivation for torturing Pretty Little Liars’ titular Liars is incoherent at best, and offensive to the mentally ill at worst. (“She has some problems,” her mother explains vaguely.) She leaves dozens of mysteries unsolved. (Why was Spencer’s sister Melissa always so sketch if she wasn’t involved in the Alex thing?) The audience didn’t even technically know Alex existed until the last episode of the series, which breaks all Mystery Writing 101 rules. Her accent is the worst thing I have ever heard the preternaturally talented Bellisario produce.
But as the resolution to a committed piece of camp horror/teen soap that is devoted to what it feels like to be a teenage girl, the evil twin resolution feels inevitable.
Spencer is the most tightly wound of the Liars. She’s a high-achiever in a family of high-achieving WASPs, and most of her early plot lines focused on her crippling need to win at everything: to be a field hockey champion and an academic star, and to finally be better at something than her older sister. When she snapped under the pressure of her own enormous expectations, she snapped spectacularly: Her downward spiral involved a brief addiction to a drug that Pretty Little Liars referred to only as Study Aid, followed by time in a mental hospital. The distance between public self and private self has always been at its greatest for Spencer, who projects a winner to the world and thinks of herself as a pathetic loser.
Alex, like all evil twins, is a version of Spencer who has given into her id. We learn via flashbacks that she had an affair with and then murdered the most inappropriate of Spencer’s love interests (he was her older sister’s fiancé and nothing much ever happened between them, but wow did they have chemistry). She turns out to be the one who was hooking up with Spencer’s longtime ex-boyfriend after Spencer had declared him officially off-limits. She revels in building the bunkers and prisons that have always fascinated Spencer as much as they terrified her. In the finale, she kidnaps and imprisons her and Spencer’s birth mother, whom Spencer longs to get know. And she develops her entire elaborate plot to get close to Spencer’s most beloved friends, the people who motivate Spencer throughout the course of the show. Alex is Spencer’s most private and hidden self, let out of her cage.
Plus, she’s British. So that’s fun.
Pretty Little Liars’ series finale is a microcosm of everything that made the show charming and likable and infuriating. The episode’s plot mechanics are so nonsensical that the show seems to be daring its audience to try to interpret it in a way that makes literal sense. It’s not afraid to go there with one of the hoariest old tropes in the book, and then it tosses in “and the evil twin is British, too!” like a cherry on top. It’s frustratingly unsatisfying on a plot level, but it’s so blatantly absurd that it loops right back around to being charming — like the time one of Pretty Little Liars’ characters got locked into an empty school which transformed itself into a death trap and blared “ACT NORMAL, BITCH!” at her through the PA system.
And as absurd as Pretty Little Liars is willing to get, it never loses its thematic focus. It remains devoted to exploring the deepest and darkest fears of teenage girls, to making them concrete and terrifying — and, ultimately, it remains devoted to destroying them in a single cathartic act. That’s what made Pretty Liars such an important and consistently compelling show, and that’s why I’m going to miss it, no matter how frustrating and clumsy it could be.
Whether it’s during a standup set or onscreen, Maz Jobrani has always been acutely aware of the role his ethnicity plays in his audience’s reaction. Since moving to the United States from Tehran, Iran, as a child in the late 1970s, Jobrani has found success in comedy by addressing prejudice and stereotypes in a way that acknowledges harsh realities, but also considers the impact his words have on people with opposing viewpoints.
“In the past couple years I’ve felt confident to go on stage and say, ‘I’m a liberal guy, that’s who I am. This is my voice, if you don’t like it, then too bad,’” Jobrani tells Vox critic at large Todd VanDerWerff on the latest episode of VanDerWerff’s podcast, I Think You’re Interesting. “In the past, I used to be a little hesitant because I didn’t want to get in an argument or alienate people.’”
Though Jobrani says his time in America started off positively, he remembers the sentiment toward him and his family changing dramatically around the time of the Iran hostage crisis.
“That’s when we would get picked on for being Iranian, even though we had nothing to do with the hostage crisis. The older kids would pick on you and call you an ‘F’ing Iranian’ back then,’ he says. “That was the first time I really realized that being Iranian was not good in America.”
These kinds of pointed observations inform Jobrani’s upcoming Netflix special, Maz Jobrani: Immigrant, which debuts on August 1. It’s his latest work in a career spent addressing his ethnicity and immigrant status, notably as an original member of the Axis of Evil comedy group, and also in films like Jimmy Vestvood: Amerikan Hero, as well as his  current role as Fawz, a dry-cleaning store owner and real estate developer on CBS’s Superior Donuts.
Jobrani cites comedians like Richard Pryor, Lewis Black, and George Carlin as people who helped push his work to touch on social issues, but he’s also found through performing that many of the experiences he once felt were specific to his upbringing are more universal.
“For the longest time I was talking about being Iranian in America, but then I realized that immigrants have a lot of similar experiences. I was doing a joke about how my grandmother used to put her cash in her bra at the Laugh Factory in L.A.,” says Jobrani. “There were these two girls in the audience that were Latina, and they were laughing. And that’s when I realized, ‘Oh my God, their grandmother also put her cash in her bra.’ And I realized that immigrants have a lot in common, and that even if you’re not an immigrant you have friends that are, so I stopped saying ‘Iranian’ and started saying that this was an ‘immigrant experience.’”
In his upcoming special, Jobrani hopes to correct some of the misconceptions many Americans have about immigrants. He tells VanDerWerff that one of the posters used for the show incorporates a picture of himself from the third grade as well as the actual visa he used to come to the United States.
“One of the points of the special is to point out that all these people that are anti-immigrant and anti-refugee that there are kids coming, there are people trying to get away from a bad situation, and that’s what was happening with us,” he explains. “We were leaving the revolution in Iran, things were getting worse and worse.”
When VanDerWerff observes that comedy is an arena to discuss politics without people on opposite sides being completely enraged, Jobrani counters with a story from a recent set that complicates that observation:
“There have been shows where after the show I’ve had Iranians come up to me or other people come up to me and say, ‘Listen, I’m a fan, but I don’t agree with you on all that stuff.’ And I’ve had pretty decent conversations and that person and I won’t see eye to eye … and I’ve had people lose their minds. I was at a very hoity-toity black-tie event and I was doing jokes about Trump and some guy got up and started screaming at me, but once I got to my Hillary joke — I had one Hillary joke — and I go, ‘Blah blah blah Hillary’ he goes, ‘Loser! She’s a loser, you’re a loser!’ This guy was in a black-tie heckling me. It shows you that some people can’t, even in a comedic environment, talk about politics.”
Later, Jobrani succinctly sums up that point, saying, “You can bring up serious subjects in a comedic way, but if someone is so stubborn they’re not willing to be self-deprecating or see the fault with the person that they are rooting for, there’s nothing you can do to get that kind of laugh,” he says.
Despite that, though, Jobrani says he’s committed to using his platform to address the orange elephant in the room.
“I’ve been wondering why Trump gets so under my skin, and someone mentioned this to me the other day and I’ve talked about it before: He’s a bully,” Jobrani says. “I think as a kid — back then you didn’t call it bullying, but when you got called an ‘F’ing Iranian’ by the older kid who’s popular it gets into you. You go, ‘I’m always going to fight that guy,’ so I’m always fighting Trump because he’s a bully.”
To hear more interviews with fascinating people from the world of arts and culture — from powerful showrunners to web series creators to documentary filmmakers — check out the I Think You’re Interesting archives.
The latest episode in the ongoing saga of the alt-right symbol Pepe the Frog finds its original creator, Matt Furie — who recently attempted to kill off Pepe — attempting to resurrect his character from the grave, in order to refashion him in a kinder, gentler image.
Furie has launched a Kickstarter for a comic zine called Save Pepe, which aims to recreate Pepe as “a universal symbol for peace, love, and acceptance.”
If it’s successful, the zine could finally give Pepe’s creator some peace of mind — or at least some financial return — after a “nightmare” year in which he’s seen his creation become a universally recognized symbol of white supremacy.
But it’s far more likely that the attempt will be yet another failed effort to reclaim for the general public a meme that seems to have been completely appropriated by the alt-right.
Furie has spent most of the past year trying to disentangle his now-infamous character, who first appeared in the comic Boy’s Club in 2005, from the white nationalism and racism with which it has become associated.
The alt-right members of 4chan, where Pepe had long been the source of numerous popular memes, chose the frog as their unofficial mascot sometime around 2014, when the alt-right began to grow in visibility online. Sparked by the tensions of the 2016 presidential campaign, Pepe’s image began to spread beyond 4chan and its outlying forums into social media and other more mainstream, accessible sectors of the internet, often accompanying sprees of harassment and targeted hate speech.
Pepe’s image became so linked with white supremacy that in September the Anti-Defamation League dubbed the frog a hate symbol, and Hillary Clinton warned the public about his image. Ever since, Furie has been trying and, many would argue, failing to reclaim his tarnished creation.
Furie first launched his "Save Pepe" campaign with the ADL shortly after Pepe was designated a hate symbol, encouraging the public to reengage with Pepe and “use the frog’s likeness as a force for good.” But as he was trying to “save” Pepe, Furie also clearly wrestled with the impact of his comic’s transformation; he drew a sad comic in the Nib in which Pepe transforms into Donald Trump, then awakens from the nightmare only to blink into nothingness. It’s a blunt statement on the creator’s existential crisis, which seemed to reach its apex when Furie seemed to give up and write off the cause as hopeless, killing off Pepe completely. In May, he published a Free Comic Book Day strip in which Pepe’s friends gave him a proper burial.
Now, however, Furie is attempting to revive Pepe — or rather “re-rebrand” the character, according to his accompanying Kickstarter video — eager to return Pepe’s public image to that of the chilled-out stoner Furie originally envisioned him as.
“He began his life as a blissfully stoned frog in my comic book Boy’s Club where he enjoyed a simple life of snacks, soda and pulling his pants all the way down to go pee,” Furie wrote on the Kickstarter campaign page. “I’d like to ask your help in funding a new zine celebrating a resurrected Pepe, one that shall shine a light in all this darkness and feel good again.”
The problem with all of this, of course, is that by now the Pepe meme, with all its horrible associations, is embedded in the cultural consciousness. Throughout Furie’s efforts to re-rebrand him, onlookers have been skeptical that the promotional effort would do anything but create “more nazi pepes,” while members of the alt-right have continued to proliferate the internet with their interpretation of Pepe. Furie’s comic killing off the frog also prompted mocking by the alt-right and remixes that brought him back to life as a zombie — a way of reminding Furie and viewers that you can’t kill a meme.
There’s also the possibility that Furie’s comic just isn’t as popular with people outside of the alt-right base as he’d like it to be; as of this writing, the Kickstarter has gained just over 100 backers. Cynics within the alt-right have so far seemed to mostly shrug off the idea, with some wondering why Furie didn’t just sell meme-friendly Pepe merchandise for profit and donate the proceeds to leftist causes.
It’s clear, however, that Furie wants the comic to mean something different within the current, divisive cultural landscape — and that he’s not done fighting for the cause.
“Before he got wrapped up in politics, Pepe was an inside-joke and a symbol for feeling sad or feeling good and many things in between,” Furie wrote last year. “I understand that it’s out of my control, but in the end, Pepe is whatever you say he is, and I, the creator, say that Pepe is love.”
Every weekend, we pick a movie you can stream that dovetails with current events. Old, new, blockbuster, arthouse: They’re all fair game. What you can count on is a weekend watch that sheds new light on the week that was. The movie of the week for June 24 to 30 is Children of Men (2006), which is available to digitally rent on Amazon, Vudu, iTunes, YouTube, and Google Play.
Health care legislation dominated the news in the US this week, but another country’s struggles kept surfacing as well: those of Great Britain, which has weathered several terrorist attacks and a startling election with big implications in the past month. The latest terror attack happened just after midnight on Monday in North London’s Finsbury Park, when a man drove a van into a crowd of pedestrians leaving a mosque.
Amid an overall atmosphere of uncertainty, Queen Elizabeth delivered the speech that customarily opens the parliamentary year, outlining the laws that the government hopes to have approved by Parliament during its upcoming session — especially important after an election.
This year, the Queen’s Speech was held on June 21 under the shadow of Britain’s upcoming Brexit negotiations, which seems fitting: It took place two days before the one-year anniversary of the June 23, 2016, Brexit vote, and two days after Brexit negotiations — which will have a huge effect on the country as well as the European and world economies — actually began on June 19. And in a not unheard-of but still unusual move, the Queen’s Speech in 2018 has already been canceled to allow members of Parliament more time to deal with Brexit laws.
It’s a bit hard to believe that the Brexit vote was only a year ago, given how much seems to have changed in the world since then. Things are not nearly as bad as they could be, of course, and the British in particular are known for their plucky ability to “keep calm and carry on.”
Yet there’s probably a reason so many of the world’s great dystopian novels come from British writers: Brave New World, Memoirs of a Survivor, High-Rise, That Hideous Strength, A Clockwork Orange, Love Among the Ruins, 1984. Something deep in the collective and composed British psyche seems capable of dreaming up unending variations on the end of the world as we know it — usually with strong class-based overtones.
One of the finest examples of this “skill” is the 2006 film Children of Men, which passed its 10-year anniversary last year. Based on P.D. James’s 1992 novel (though arguably an improvement on it), the movie is set in 2027, 18 years after the world’s last child was born. Clive Owen plays a man who finds himself at the center of a risky and dangerous plan to save a child who could in turn save the world.
Reviewing the film after its release, Roger Ebert marveled at its believable vision of a bleak future in which terrorist attacks, natural disasters, and wars have left Britain as one of the only semi-habitable places on Earth, held together by a police state; immigrants are flooding into the country, which is overstuffed already.
“Are we living in the last good times?” Ebert wondered.
And his answer holds an important lesson for us all: that how we act today has everything to do with whether there are still good times ahead. “Here is certainly a world ending not with a bang but a whimper, and the film serves as a cautionary warning,” Ebert concluded. “The only thing we will have to fear in the future, we learn, is the past itself. Our past. Ourselves.”
The London in Children of Men is still in the future, but the film forecasts that future for just 10 years from now, 2027. And though we’ve escaped some of its nightmare — children are still being born, thankfully — many of its other elements feel chillingly real, not just in England but in many other countries.
Dystopian films are never really about the future, though: They’re always about the world today. Children of Men places its jaded protagonist in a situation that seems hopeless and challenges him to develop compassion and courage nonetheless. That’s a story and an exhortation as old as time itself. Now seems like a great time revisit it.
Watch the trailer for Children of Men:
Watching Netflix’s documentary Nobody Speak: Trials of the Free Press, you sense that director Brian Knappenberger and his team had no idea when they started the project that their final cut would end up focusing on the breakdown of journalistic norms in America. Halfway through, the film pivots away from its initial subject, the court case that brought down Gawker.com, and expands its scope to examine the effect of big money on journalism at large in America.
That freezing effect on press freedom feels like a new concern and a ripe topic for a documentary. Even though most working journalists have been worried about various threats to the free press since 9/11 — a fear that carried through the Obama administration, which was pretty restrictive toward the press — President Donald Trump’s open warfare on reporters has raised the warning bell volume to full blast.
Rating
And so while Knappenberger probably started out wanting to dig into the particulars of a confusing court case — albeit one with serious implications — dramatic shifts in political rhetoric, combined with a new administration that has openly declared war on the press, ultimately led him to create something much more full-throated. Rather than merely chronicle the fallout of a strange but fairly isolated lawsuit, Nobody Speak is a full-scale cautionary tale that starts out as a quasi-thriller about the media’s treatment of public figures and their private lives, and ends by forecasting a dystopian nightmare.
As a documentary, Nobody Speak is conventional, aiming more to inform and convince its audience of the assault on journalism in American than be cinematically innovative. The movie competently builds each chunk of its tale — beginning with Hulk Hogan's sex tape lawsuit against Gawker Media, which Hogan won in 2016 — by presenting both interviews and news footage and having the participants in its events, as well as the journalists who wrote about them, recount their memories.
But there’s a sort of twist in the middle of the film that casts new light on everything that came before, and that gives Nobody Speak the feel of a thriller — one built on very recent history. It’s unlikely that anyone who watches the film won’t have at least a vague memory of the strange court case that ultimately brought down the bad kid of online journalism, Gawker. But Nobody Speak carefully dissects that story, bringing in former employees (including Gawker founder Nick Denton) and lawyers from the case, so that it makes more sense to those who wouldn’t have grasped its significance at the time.
Or at least so that it makes some sense. The battle between Hulk Hogan and Gawker over the site’s publication of the wrestling star’s sex tapes takes some odd twists and turns: For one, the prosecution dropped some of its charges midway through the case for initially mystifying reasons that turned out to make sense once the participation of tech mogul Peter Thiel came to light.
After the trial, it was revealed that the prosecution had been bankrolled by Thiel, probably as an act of revenge for a story that Gawker published about him several years prior. And the trial’s eventual outcome, after Hogan was awarded $115 million in compensatory damages, was that Gawker went bankrupt and shut down — leaving even those observers who hated Gawker uncomfortable with the implications of living in a world where people with deep pockets and a grudge could take out media outlets for personal reasons.
Nobody Speaks covers the Gawker trial in so much detail (and it’s necessary, giving the complexity of the case) that Thiel doesn’t even become a player until halfway through the film. Thiel's involvement is no longer the complete and total shocker it was when it was first discovered — anyone who followed the story in real time know it’s coming — but once he arrives, the movie shifts from a bizarre courtroom story to an ominous, and very convincing, demonstration of the threat that big money tied to big egos poses to press freedom in America.
One of the film’s major comparison points is the casino magnate and big-time GOP donor Sheldon Adelson’s secretive late 2015 purchase of the Las Vegas Review-Journal. That purchase is carefully fleshed out in Nobody Speak by the journalists who formerly worked for the Review-Journal and uncovered the story of their paper’s new owner. They believed the acquisition to be at least partly motivated by Adelson’s grudge against one of its columnists — a parallel to Thiel’s involvement in the Gawker case.
Coupled with accounts of the ideas that people like Thiel and Adelson subscribe to — like the idea that it’s fine to throw around their wealth to take down media they don’t like — and the powerful company they keep, Nobody Speaks hurtles toward its conclusion: that the freedom of the press guaranteed in the First Amendment is fragile, and facing one of its greatest tests to date.
Certainly, Nobody Speaks has its own axe to grind. The documentary also briefly mentions Amazon founder Jeff Bezos’s 2013 purchase of the Washington Post — which by many accounts has been beneficial to the paper — but glosses past it, leaving the whole argument about the danger of business moguls owning or influencing media outlets feeling a tad lopsided. But it’s still a compelling one, and impossible for people who are paying even casual attention to the current media landscape to contest.
And of course, it’s 2017, which means there’s no escaping the looming shadow cast by President Trump’s pathological love-hate relationship with the press, fostered over decades of trying (with plenty of success) to get New York City’s tabloids to pay attention to him. Given that Nobody Speak premiered at the Sundance Film Festival just days after Trump’s inauguration, but includes footage of Sean Spicer’s famous assertions about the size of the crowd at that event, it seems the film has been recut and expanded a bit since its festival premiere. (The original subtitle was more specific: Hulk Hogan, Gawker, and Trials of a Free Press.)
You get the uneasy feeling, watching it, that a new cut of the film could happen every week this year. In fact, its conclusion — which explores the difficult and risky profession of journalism that tips over into valorization, with journalists extolling the calling they feel to their job to a degree that might not play well to the average non-journalist — feels almost like it belongs to a different movie, and may wind up weakening the film overall.
In Trump’s America, most people watching Netflix already have their minds made up about journalists — they may trust them, or they may think they’re the scum of the earth. Nobody Speak is a stirring argument that could sway some of the undecided viewers. But if filmmakers want to make a case about the free press in America — taking the Bezoses of the world into account along with the Thiels — then alongside films like Nobody Speak, we need a strong re-examination of whether, and how, corporate-driven journalism can be ethical and still stay afloat.
Nobody Speaks premieres on Netflix on June 23.
It initially appeared that Bill Cosby was wasting no time firming up his summer plans, after a jury couldn’t decide this month as to whether he drugged and sexually assaulted accuser Andrea Constand in 2004.
Shortly after the case against Cosby ended in a mistrial, Cosby spokespeople Andrew Wyatt and Ebonee Benson announced he would embark on a town hall tour across the country to educate young people on how to avoid being accused of sexual assault.
On Tuesday, Wyatt — the same person who announced Cosby’s plans on the air — released a statement on the comedian’s behalf stating that the plans were a no-go.
“The current propaganda that I am going to conduct a sexual assault tour is false,” Cosby said in a statement acquired by Variety. “Any further information about public plans will be given at the appropriate time.” According to Variety, Cosby’s attorney followed up, adding she would not advise him to speak on such matters, especially since prosecutors are looking to retry the case.
Nonetheless, last week during the interview, Wyatt and Benson defended their client, seemingly taking the outcome of the trial as a win. At the end of the interview, Wyatt announced the plans for the now-abandoned tour, with plans to come right to Birmingham.
“This is bigger than Bill Cosby. You know, this issue can affect any young person, especially young athletes of today,” Wyatt said. “They need to know what they’re facing when they’re hanging out and partying, when they’re doing certain things that they shouldn’t be doing, and it also affects, you know, married men.”
After the anchor interviewing Wyatt and Benson asked, “Is this sort of a ‘Do as I say, not as I do’ sort of thing?” Wyatt laughed nervously, and Benson interjected, reiterating the need for better education around sexual assault and its attendant statutes of limitations. That was a key point for Cosby’s legal team during his trial, since plaintiff Constand’s sexual assault allegation against Cosby stems from an incident that took place more than a decade ago, and was weeks shy of being too late to prosecute.
Related
Benson noted that the statutes of limitations are being “extended” for victims of sexual assault, explaining that “this is why people need to be educated on, you know, a brush against a shoulder, anything at this point can be considered sexual assault, and it’s a good thing to be educated about the laws.”
Of course, these plans have since been shot down completely — they seemed so preposterous and tone-deaf. But the proposal of this plan’s mere existence was simply an extension of the rape culture–propagating, victim-discrediting defense that Cosby’s legal team used during his trial.
The entire interview, as well as Cosby’s defense team’s strategy during the trial, leaned heavily on how many “inconsistencies” were present in Constand’s case. Last weekend, a jury could not come to an agreement on whether Cosby drugged and sexually assaulted Constand, resulting in a mistrial.
Cosby’s attorneys, through cross-examination, attempted to discredit Constand, her mother, and any other witnesses who came forward. Cosby attorney Angela Agrusa questioned inconsistencies in Constand’s timeline of her encounters with Cosby, including details about how Constand and Cosby met, and how she had initially told police that her contact with Cosby was “rare and brief.” At one point during Constand’s testimony, the Guardian’s Molly Redden reported it was clear that Agrusa was attempting to imply that Constand’s relationship with Cosby was “romantic in nature,” since they had private dinners together:
“You were sitting by the fire. The room was dark. There was a nice mood,” Agrusa said, summarizing Constand’s 2005 statement to police.
“I don’t know what that means,” Constand said.
“The lights were dim and the fire was going,” Agrusa continued.
“I don’t really remember how dim the lights were, but I did have to eat my dinner,” Constand replied.
In addition to framing Constand and Cosby’s relationship as a consensual romantic affair, Cosby’s defense team also questioned the political motives of Montgomery County District Attorney Kevin Steele. Benson and Wyatt followed suit in their interview. Steele won his seat in 2016 by campaigning against his predecessor, Bruce Castor, who decided not to pursue Constand’s case in 2005.
Related
It’s not surprising that Cosby and his team have continued to try to shield the comedian from any sense of wrongdoing. But victim blaming in the form of discrediting Constand (as well as the other women who have accused Cosby) is just the latest display of how powerful men nearly always avoid being held accountable for their actions — Cosby even admitted in a 2005 deposition for a civil case that he had indeed drugged Constand.
At least in this moment, Cosby appears to be doing the right thing by revoking this tour. It’s a good thing since prosecutors in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, have already said they will retry the case, and Cosby’s attorney has now said this tour would be a bad idea. Sounds like solid advice.
Serena Williams’s legacy as the most dominant player in tennis speaks for itself. But this week, retired player John McEnroe — who himself is a legendary tennis player and member of the International Tennis Hall of Fame — decided to put his own strange stamp on it.
In an interview with NPR that quickly drew backlash, McEnroe belittled, albeit perhaps inadvertently, Williams’s legacy. He was asked about the greatest tennis players of the sport, and said that while Williams has been dominating women’s tennis since 1999, “if she played the men's circuit she'd be like 700 in the world.”
“That doesn’t mean I don’t think Serena is an incredible player,” McEnroe continued. “I do, but the reality of what would happen would be I think something that perhaps it’d be a little higher, perhaps it’d be a little lower. And on a given day, Serena could beat some players.”
While McEnroe isn’t entirely wrong — Williams has said similar things in the past, and in 1998 she played an exhibition match and lost to the 203rd-ranked male player — his observation, especially the 700 number he seems to have pulled out of nowhere, seems unnecessary. Williams’s litany of accomplishments (which include 23 grand slam championship wins and counting, Olympic gold medals, $84 million in prize money won, and a grand slam tournament win while pregnant) doesn’t need wins over male tennis players to justify its greatness.
Since he first made the comment, McEnroe has been the subject of plenty of outrage for diminishing Williams’s career in a flippant way. And he’s responded by doubling down on his assertions, even throwing out the idea of combining the men’s and women’s tours to prove who is really the best.
At a glance, his stubborn behavior and controversy courting may seem brash and even strange for a man who in the past has gushed about how dominant and transcendent of an athlete Williams is. But there’s also another factor at play here: McEnroe’s got a book to sell.
Right now the tennis season is in a bit of a lull as players gear up for the next grand slam — the four major tournaments (the Australian Open, French Open, Wimbledon, and US Open) — of the sport’s season. The Australian Open concluded earlier this year, the French Open ended earlier this month, and Wimbledon officially starts on July 3.
Even though McEnroe has been retired for years, grand slam tournaments are still an opportunity for him to take home a paycheck — he’s worked as a commentator for CBS, NBC, USA, and ESPN to analyze players’ strategies, temperaments, and tendencies and offer live commentary on how a match is unfolding.
His interview with NPR this week was a rare instance when people heard McEnroe’s thoughts on tennis outside the context of a televised match. In that interview, which is part of McEnroe’s promotional book tour for his new memoir, NPR’s Lulu Garcia-Navarro asked him a series of questions about the best players in the history of the sport, eventually bringing up Serena Williams.
What’s fascinating about this interaction is that Garcia-Navarro does a good job of getting McEnroe to talk himself into a bit of trouble. It’s not like he makes a totally unprompted and organic observation about Williams being ranked 700th; he’s pushed and prodded into it a bit. Here’s the full exchange (emphasis mine):
GARCIA-NAVARRO: We're talking about male players, but there [are] of course wonderful female players. Let's talk about Serena Williams. You say she is the best female player in the world in the book.
MCENROE: Best female player ever — no question.
GARCIA-NAVARRO: Some wouldn't qualify it; some would say she's the best player in the world. Why qualify it?
MCENROE: Oh! Uh, she's not, you mean, the best player in the world, period?
GARCIA-NAVARRO: Yeah, the best tennis player in the world. You know, why say female player?
MCENROE: Well, because if she was in, if she played the men's circuit, she'd be, like, 700 in the world.
GARCIA-NAVARRO: You think so?
MCENROE: Yeah. That doesn't mean I don't think Serena is an incredible player. I do, but the reality of what would happen would be I think something that perhaps it'd be a little higher, perhaps it'd be a little lower. And on a given day, Serena could beat some players. I believe because she's so incredibly strong mentally that she could overcome some situations where players would choke 'cause she's been in it so many times, so many situations at Wimbledon, the US Open, etc. But if she had to just play the circuit — the men's circuit — that would be an entirely different story.
McEnroe could’ve certainly answered Garcia-Navarro’s question more elegantly, and made a point about the differences between the men’s and women’s tours. And in the past, he has, according to ESPN, called Serena Williams “arguably the greatest athlete of the last 100 years.” After Williams won the US Open in 2012, McEnroe declared to those following his live commentary, “You're watching, to me, the greatest player to ever play the game.”
But those sorts of comments don’t really get people talking. Whereas McEnroe’s comparison in suggesting that Williams is “only” as good as the 700-ranked male player (a distinction that belongs to Issam Haitham Taweel from Egypt, according to the Association of Tennis Professionals), even though Williams is unquestionably the most dominant tennis player of all time, is guaranteed outrage fuel.
In short, NPR had a great interview with a great, controversy-stirring quote on its hands. And suddenly, during a quiet period for tennis, McEnroe found himself embroiled in a controversy.
For her part, Williams largely brushed off McEnroe’s comment, which actually falls in line — in terms of the women’s and men’s game being different — with statements she’s made herself in the past.
In a 2013 interview with David Letterman, Williams spoke candidly about competing against male players. She had no qualms talking about how different the sport is on the men’s tour versus the women’s tour:
"If I were to play Andy Murray, I would lose, 6-0, 6-0, in five to six minutes, maybe 10 minutes," Williams told Letterman. "The men are a lot faster, they serve harder, they hit harder. … It's a completely different game."
Williams also explained that the physicality of tennis — on both the men’s and women’s tours — has evolved from decade to decade. Players are now stronger, taller, and more conditioned than they used to be. There’s also, as she pointed out, a massive physical difference, in terms of the velocity of the balls being hit, the power behind players’ shots, and the angles at which the ball comes at you.
That’s easy to imagine if you compare even the most basic stats of two players like the 6-foot-6 male player Juan Martin del Potro, who’s currently ranked 32nd, and the 5-foot-8 Angelique Kerber, who’s currently the No. 1-ranked women’s tennis player in the world. And to be clear, it’s difficult to believe that male players in McEnroe’s glory days would be able to keep up with today’s most elite players.
That said, Williams being self-effacing and talking about her own game is a lot different in tone than McEnroe making an observation about her. She’s not trying to quantify her legacy the way McEnroe is. She’s not making a point in trying to gauge where she’d be ranked among the men. She’s also talking about herself as opposed to someone else judging her accomplishments.
After McEnroe’s comments began circulating, Williams tweeted a plea for him to not mention her name in any future discussions he might have about tennis rankings:
Dear John, I adore and respect you but please please keep me out of your statements that are not factually based.
I've never played anyone ranked "there" nor do I have time. Respect me and my privacy as I'm trying to have a baby. Good day sir
On Tuesday, McEnroe appeared on CBS This Morning — remember, he’s on a book tour — and was offered the chance to apologize for his statements and to honor Williams’s request to keep her name out of this narrative. He didn’t take it.
Instead, he rehashed what happened during his interview with NPR:
She's the greatest female player that ever lived, then the lady said to me, I don't remember which one, but she said, “Why did you say woman, why don't you just say the greatest, you know, tennis player that ever lived?” And so then I felt the need, however unfortunately probably, to defend myself. I don't know, just say what I really felt, which is about what I think she would be.
McEnroe is being brutally honest here and seems to realize (“unfortunately probably”) that in defending himself, he comes off sounding crass or regrettable.
But after repeating what happened, he also leaned into the controversy a bit more by floating a theory about men and women playing on the same tour: "Why don't you combine, just solve the problem — I'm sure the men would be all for this — the men and women play together, and then we don't have to guess.”
To be very clear, Serena Williams’s tennis legacy has long had an unwelcome asterisk attached to it, in the form of people frequently belittling her or tainting her accomplishments. Critiques of her dominance and superiority have, in the past, often devolved into racist and sexist attacks against her.
But I don’t think McEnroe is coming from those nasty places — especially since he’s previously talked about Williams being the greatest athlete ever to play the game of tennis — as much as he is courting controversy and stirring up interest for his new book, But Seriously (it hits stores Tuesday).
McEnroe made a name for himself as player by not only being good but also having a heart-on-his-sleeve attitude. As a tennis player, he was known for having the audacity to fight with chair umpires and referees. He may have stumbled into his comments about Williams’s hypothetical ranking on the men’s tour, but now it feels like he’s solidly leaning into the controversy he caused. And he wouldn’t be in the position he is now — a best-selling author and commentator — if he were a meek or quiet player.
With this drama, he’s setting an expectation that his book might contain similar controversial observations and uncensored glimmers from the mind of McEnroe.
Meanwhile, for Williams, his comments haven’t done as much harm. In fact, they have galvanized her fan base and created a moment to appreciate her accomplishments. One of those accomplishments is that earlier this year, Williams won her 23rd major tournament while pregnant, something current tennis greats like Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal will never have the chance to do.
And if fans’ sentiments weren’t enough, the timing of McEnroe’s controversial comment worked out such that one day after he made it, Vanity Fair revealed its new cover featuring a pregnant Williams:
Must read article. Link in bio
A post shared by Serena Williams (@serenawilliams) on Jun 27, 2017 at 6:20am PDT
In the accompanying profile, Williams talks about her plans to return to tennis in January 2018 after the birth of her child.
“I don’t think my story is over yet,” she told the magazine.
It’s a reminder that Williams’s legacy — of being the greatest tennis player to ever grace the sport — is still being written, and that she’s still capable of achieving even more. And to the McEnroes out there, it’s a reminder that she’s the only one in charge of that legacy.
The Essex Serpent is the malevolent presence breathing through Sarah Perry’s astonishing new novel, lurking below the surface of the Blackwater estuary and haunting the residents of the small country town of Colchester.
It’s 1893, and Britain has gone mad for the sciences. But in Colchester, with animals and boats going missing and a drowned man washing up on shore, studies of the natural and physical world offer no satisfactory explanation. So the mythical Essex Serpent — a sea snake with wings and fangs that Colchester residents are certain is preying on them — becomes a repository for all the uncanny fears and repressed urges that science and rationality are supposed to have banished.
Rating
One character skins moles and hangs them around his property to scare off the serpent. Citizens slip notes to the town rector, urging him to preach repentance so that Colchester can be forgiven its sins and freed from the serpent. In one particularly horrifying scene, children talking about the serpent begin to laugh and cannot stop, snapping their necks back and forth in involuntary spasms as they go into hysterics.
It’s into this atmosphere that Cora, Perry’s radiantly likable main character, makes her entrance. Cora married young, to a monstrous husband (“What a thing it would be: to have me break you, and mend your wounds with gold,” he tells her in a flashback, before setting out to break her), and after her husband’s death by throat cancer, she is a widow. She revels in her newfound freedom: dressing in mannish lumpy tweeds and boots, roaming the countryside for hours on end, and devoting herself to scientific study.
Cora loves science for its own sake — most of Perry’s characters are inveterate knowledge seekers, which is what makes them so compelling — but she also longs for fame and recognition. She wants to see her name engraved on the wall of the British Museum. When she hears of the Essex Serpent, she sets off at once for Colchester on the hope that she might discover an ichthyosaur, a living fossil: The serpent, she reasons, might well be a prehistoric fish that somehow managed to survive and is resurfacing in Essex.
But once she arrives, her attentions are diverted away from the serpent and toward Will, Colchester’s beleaguered rector. Will is a man of the Enlightenment who sees no reason that science and faith may not go hand in hand, and he considers the townspeople’s belief in the serpent to be a dangerous superstition. “Our God is a God of reason and order, not of visitations in the night!” he says.
Will loves ideas almost as much as Cora does, so when they meet, their minds meet and clash and fall in love all at once. But their relationship, too, becomes food for the serpent: Will is married to a wife whom he loves, and he understands his love for Cora to be a sin. As such, he fears it is both caused by the serpent, which surely drove him to sin, and the cause of the serpent, which surely arrived to punish him for his sins. “He wonders,” Perry writes, “if the Essex Serpent has his name written down in a ledger.”
Lust, like the fear of an unknowable natural landscape and all other irrational urges, is a taboo. The only way for Will to deal with it is to displace it onto the Essex Serpent.
Perry’s prose is rich, textured, and intricate. You may recognize a bit of A.S. Byatt in the way Perry leaps into her characters’ philosophical debates, but she is at her lushest and most original when she can describe the natural world — not lyrically, but in a gothic mode, all rotting and fecund vegetation and marshy ground. Perry’s landscape is almost painfully alive, and that makes it redemptive: Her characters are only able to be completely honest with each other when they are outdoors.
The Essex Serpent is a phenomenon in the UK, where it won the British Book Award and has sold more than 200,000 copies. Its reception in the US has been slightly quieter, but it deserves all the praise it’s won across the pond. It’s a thoughtful and elegant book about the human need for knowledge and love, and about the fears and desires we bury.
Margaret Atwood’s time has come.
Her 1985 dystopian novel The Handmaid’s Tale has been adapted into a hit TV show on Hulu, and her 1996 novel Alias Grace will come to Netflix this fall. And her books aren’t just getting the prestige TV treatment: They’re being treated as prophetic texts. Writing in the New Yorker, Rebecca Mead called Atwood “the prophet of dystopia.” Political protesters everywhere are waving signs demanding that we make Margaret Atwood fiction again.
Atwood, whose writing career spans roughly 50 years, 17 novels, 10 short story collections, and 20 poetry collections, is at last having her pop culture moment. So now it’s time for us to explore who she is, what her writing does, and why it’s so compelling.
Related
Atwood has covered a great deal over her extraordinarily prolific career, but she’s returned again and again to certain preoccupations — preoccupations that are not currently fashionable.
When Michelle Dean accepted the National Book Critics Circle Award for excellence in reviewing this March, she mused that she had been rereading The Handmaid’s Tale recently, and was struck by how unusual it felt in the context of 2017.
“There are so few books like that being published right now,” she said. “The application of literary intelligence to this question of power — it’s kind of out of style. And many writers just seem more interested in exploring the self.”
Atwood is a writer with the voice of a poet who has never been interested in the lyrical realist tradition so popular among literary novelists like Ian McEwan or Jonathan Safran Foer, with their minutely observed unhappy families having unhappy sex.
Instead, Atwood puts domestic characters into blown-up situations. Her books are interested in power and dualities; in the impulses we repress until we have the power to explore them, and in the anxieties expressed by dystopias and the fantasies implicit to utopias. They are highly symbolic, and they work as telescopes rather than microscopes, observing the social rather than the individual.
Atwood examines power at the level of the state, at the level of society, and at the level of individual relationships. She looks at how a government might compel a woman to bear children against her will, at how society convinces women to hate their bodies, at how a rich older man might wield power over his naive young wife, or how one teenage girl who has managed to accumulate social capital uses it to punish her less popular friends. And as she examines the way power accumulates and distributes itself, she conjures up the cramped and oppressive sensation of being powerless.
Atwood's analysis of power — how it operates, how it accumulates, what it feels like to lack it and be at the mercy of someone with lots of it — feels especially trenchant in a time when so many Americans feel that those in power are exceptionally untrustworthy. Atwood knows exactly how terrifying it is when a person with power over you doesn't mind if you suffer, when they seem to in fact want you to suffer, and she examines every nuance of that terror without flinching away from it. And that makes her perfectly suited to be the voice of the world in 2017.
Related
Atwood believes the social context into which you are born informs your entire life. “One thing I do for my characters is I write down the year of their birth, and then I write the months down the side and the years across the top, and that means that I know exactly how old they are when larger things happen,” she told me at the beginning of June. “So, if you’re born in 1932, you’re born into the Depression. That’s going to have an effect on you.”
Atwood herself was born in 1939 to a Canadian entomologist, so her early life was dominated by two things: World War II, and the Canadian wilderness. That combination — of the lurking, horrific possibility of totalitarianism and human evil, and the unforgiving brutality and necessity of the natural world — would go on to inform her work for the rest of her career, perhaps most pointedly in the MaddAddam trilogy, in which human brutality nearly destroys the world and nature rushes in to fill the void.
Atwood began to attend school full time at age 8, an age that in most of her fiction is deeply traumatic. One of images that recurs across a few of her books — Cat’s Eye, Lady Oracle — features a sad and humiliated 8-year-old girl standing alone in the winter snow. Her playmates have tied her up with a jump rope and then run away and left her, and what is most humiliating about the image is that the girl is trying desperately to convince herself that this is a game, that it is fun, that it is friendship. There’s no reason to believe this image comes from biographical fact, but it is a perfect microcosm of the vicious doublethink of little girl politics, in which the key is to believe that what is being done to you is fun, even when it is destructive.
Atwood briefly considered skipping college and supporting herself by writing pulp — “True Romances,” she writes in her essay collection In Other Worlds, “seemed easy enough, as they were all basically some variation of Wuthering Heights, in which the girl wrongly falls for the guy with the motorcycle instead of the one with the steady job at the shoe store” — but she found that she didn’t believe in the genre enough to pull it off. Later, she would give that career to the heroine of Lady Oracle and the hero of The Blind Assassin, both of whom joyfully plow through formulaic plot after formulaic plot and support themselves comfortably in the process.
Atwood began writing fiction professionally in 1964 with The Edible Woman, which would be published in 1969 to general acclaim. In 1979, Life Before Man was a finalist for the Governor General’s Award — Canada’s equivalent of the National Book Award — but it wasn’t until The Handmaid’s Tale in 1985 that Atwood broke into the literary A-list, despite a middling review from Mary McCarthy at the New York Times.
But prior to breaking into fiction, Atwood had already made a name for herself has a well-respected poet. She began to publish her poetry as an undergraduate at the University of Toronto: in college literary magazines, and eventually in collections (first self-published, later professionally published and award-winning). She would continue to work as a poet as she began her (uncompleted) graduate studies in literature at Harvard.
At the time, Atwood has said, female poets were expected to be mystical and mysterious and probably suicidal, like Sylvia Plath; interviewers asked her, she writes in the essay collection Negotiating With the Dead, “not whether I was going to commit suicide, but when.” It was an image entirely at odds with the way Atwood describes herself, which is as “a nice, cosy sort of person, a bit absent-minded, a dab hand at cookies, beloved by domestic animals, and a knitter of sweaters with arms that are too long.” (Having briefly met Atwood, based on first impressions I find it much easier to imagine her saying, “I eat men like air,” like Plath’s Lady Lazarus than to imagine her knitting sweaters, but on this she disagrees with me.)
Atwood would expand on this disconnect in her third novel, 1976’s Lady Oracle, in which the heroine is a nice, silly woman who accidentally hypnotizes herself into writing serious poetry when she is procrastinating at her day job of churning out pulpy costume dramas, and is promptly flummoxed by the ensuing publicity. The interviewers want to turn her into a feminist and pretend that she forces them to call her Ms. instead of Mrs. after she politely tells them she has no preference, and they treat her as a mystical goddess figure to the point that she begins to see her public persona as a separate self: “She was taller than I was, more beautiful, more threatening. She wanted to kill me and take my place, and by the time she did this no one would notice the difference because the media were in on the plot, they were helping her.”
It’s a telling characterization from Atwood, who would have a vexed relationship with the press for the rest of her career — especially when it comes to the question of genre: how she sees it, and how her critics see it.
Atwood’s readers often describe her as a writer of feminist science fiction, prompting Atwood herself to declare she is nothing of the sort, thereby offending both feminists and science fiction fans.
In part, that disconnect comes about because Atwood insists on defining her own terms. She’s interested in women’s rights, and she’s interested in the possibilities of technology for the future, but those questions don’t necessarily fall within the bounds of feminism and science fiction as she defines them. Moreover, she is not necessarily a part of the intellectual communities that grew up around feminism and science fiction, and she doesn’t want to set the expectation that she is.
Related
So although The Edible Woman is about a woman whose engagement causes her to lose her identity, Atwood prefers not to call it a feminist book, because she was not part of a feminist community when she wrote it. And she was not a fan of some of the tenets of second-wave feminism, especially what she perceived as the expectation that feminists refused to like pretty clothes or believe there were good men. (Although ironically, in the first half of her career the good men she wrote were all either complicit at worst or boring at best, up until Alex in 2000’s Booker Prize-winning The Blind Assassin; it probably says something that a compelling good man is what it took to win her the Booker.)
“I didn’t want to become a megaphone for any one particular set of beliefs,” she said to the New Yorker’s Rebecca Mead in an interview earlier this year. “Having gone through that initial phase of feminism when you weren’t supposed to wear frocks and lipstick — I never had any use for that. You should be able to wear them without people saying you are a traitor to your sex.”
Today, Atwood is comfortable calling some of her work feminist, as long as she’s able to define the terminology herself.
“Is The Handmaid’s Tale a ‘feminist’ novel?” Atwood asked herself at the New York Times in March. “If you mean a novel in which women are human beings — with all the variety of character and behavior that implies — and are also interesting and important, and what happens to them is crucial to the theme, structure and plot of the book, then yes.”
Similarly, Atwood has avoided calling her dystopias “science fiction” because they don’t fall within her definition of science fiction.
“What I mean by ‘science fiction’ is those books that descend from H.G. Wells’ The War of the Worlds,” she writes in In Other Worlds, “which treats of an invasion by tentacled, blood-sucking Martians shot to Earth in metal canisters — things that could not possibly happen.” In contrast, Atwood’s dystopias are all about things that are very likely to happen. Every atrocity that occurs in The Handmaid’s Tale has happened elsewhere, and most of the technology in the MaddAddam series is already in development.
Confusingly, many prominent science fiction writers — including Ursula Le Guin — define science fiction as being about things that could really happen, and define fiction about things that could not possibly happen as fantasy. At this, Atwood throws up her hands and suggests that after all, they are all “wonder tales” that provide “a doorway into the spirit world, or on the other side of the threshold that divides the known from the unknown.”
While Atwood is reluctant to allow any genre or ideology that she has not clearly defined and labeled to her satisfaction lay claim to her, that shouldn’t necessarily stop us from using whatever labels are useful to us as a means of thinking and talking about her work. Her books are consistently interested in the power dynamics between men and women, and in the possibilities of what developing technologies and scientific catastrophes might allow or force us to do to one another in the near future. Feminism and science fiction are good labels for talking about those questions.
And they are incredibly useful labels when it comes to Atwood’s dystopias.
Dystopias take up a disproportionate amount of the conversation when it comes to Atwood and her work. Although they only make up five of her 17 novels, they’re among her most celebrated writing, particularly in the recent conversations around her and her work. It’s easy to see why: They’re the books where she is able to turn her focused attention to the question of how power replicates itself across multiple stratifications.
Atwood’s dystopias, which go from the immersive claustrophobia of The Handmaid’s Tale to the telescoping world building of the MaddAddam trilogy to the comic sex farce of The Heart Goes Last, tend to concern themselves with pyramids of power. A select few — usually wealthy, male, and white — sit at the top, and as the pyramid widens, power becomes scarcer and oppression more pervasive.
The cramped, claustrophobic Handmaid’s Tale takes place at a single point on that pyramid, which is part of what gives it its creepy force. It examines different stratifications of power — we watch as Offred is oppressed by the state, by the family in which the state has placed her, and by the social caste the state has created — always from the same viewpoint.
Related
But “I could pick a male narrator from somewhere in that pyramid,” Atwood mused in 2009. “It would be interesting."
That’s the strategy she took with 2004’s Oryx and Crake, the first volume of the MaddAddam trilogy. Jimmy, Oryx and Crake’s protagonist, is wealthy, white, and male, by any measure at the top of the social pyramid — but he, too, is destroyed by the world in which he lives. Over the course of the MaddAddam trilogy, Atwood hopscotches around the pyramid of power, looking at society from the point of view of poor women, and poor men, and sex workers, and cultists, and finding it lacking from every angle.
Meanwhile, in The Heart Goes Last, she narrows her focus to the way power reproduces itself at the level of sexual desire. The Heart Goes Last is aesthetically the weakest of the Atwood dystopias, but it’s perhaps her most intimate examination of power, and its focus is on the longing to control utterly the object of one’s desire — only here, that control becomes literally possible, through operating on the loved one’s brains or creating a sexbot replica.
Those sexbots are a particular campy signifier of dystopia, but they also fit neatly into Atwood’s other major preoccupation: the idea of a shadow self.
If there’s a single image recurring throughout all of Atwood’s books, it’s that the main character has at least one double or shadow self. Sometimes that double is literal, like the sexbot replicas of real people in The Heart Goes Last. Sometimes it’s figurative, like the sisters in The Blind Assassin, who live out each other’s fantasies in the shadows. Sometimes it doesn’t even really exist, like the imagined Fat Lady and the famous author in Lady Oracle.
“Novels are often constructed in that way. Not just my novels, but anybody’s novels,” Atwood told me. “There’s a structural principle at work somewhere. That’s just something that has to do with works of art: You have a basic rhythm and then you have syncopation.”
In her criticism, Atwood reads this kind of doubling as a way of thinking about the act of writing. “The mere act of writing splits the self into two,” she writes in Negotiating With the Dead. One half of the writer is the writer who is an ordinary human being — the nice cozy domestic self Atwood described elsewhere as living under threat from the romantic idea of a death-obsessed lady poet. In novels, this half generally takes the form of the protagonist, who is sensible and orderly and only wants for everything to work out all right in the end.
The other half is the writer who is actually writing, who throws complications and horrors at her characters without mercy. It is that half who becomes the uncanny double, a figure filled with menace who threatens and simultaneously acts out all of the deepest and most repressed desires of the protagonist.
“Surely it wasn’t Charles Dickens … who caused poor Little Nell to die an early death?” Atwood writes. “No, it was the necrophiliac he carried around inside himself, like a tapeworm made of ink.”
“I don’t want this to be the story that I’m telling,” says Offred in The Handmaid’s Tale. But her shadow self, the previous Offred, has left a message carved for her in the closet floor.
The shadow self isn’t only a way of thinking about writing, though. The shadow self also offers a way of thinking about the desires that we ourselves repress, and how we would enact them if only we were able to seize the power to do so.
Charmaine of The Heart Goes Last would like to lose herself in sexual abandon the way her sexbot replica does, so much so that she creates an alter ego named Jasmine that will allow her to do just that. Oryx and Crake’s Jimmy hates his shadow self Crake, but he also harbors the fantasy of wiping out the human race, the way Crake does. The three heroines of The Robber Bride fight to keep their domestic lives safe and secure from their collective shadow self Zenia, but they are also immensely drawn to the idea of doing as Zenia does: using and then discarding men with abandon, and ripping up all that is tidy and domestic. It’s just that they can’t afford to live as she does. It would render them powerless.
The shadow self trope is, at its heart, a power fantasy. That’s part of why it’s so fundamental to Atwood’s work.
“I’ve never been a person to believe, ‘Oh, they’re just funning. They’re just fooling around. It’s just to get votes,’” Atwood said at New York City’s BookCon in June. She was talking about whether or not to believe a politician’s threats. “I don’t believe that. I believe that people will actually do the things they say they’re going to do if they get the chance to do them.”
We are currently living in a time in which a politician has talked quite extensively about all the things he would like to do if he were able to — and now he’s seized enough power that he might conceivably do so. The part of the country that many on the left used to think of as America’s shadow self has seized control of the country, and dystopia feels as though it’s looming ever closer.
Part of Atwood’s gift as a novelist is that she gives us the tools and the framework to think about these questions: about what it means to be powerless, and about what anxieties and fantasies we repress when we lack the power to act on them, only to see them turned into weapons in someone else’s hands. Reading Atwood now, at this moment, feels like peering behind a curtain at the invisible levers of power at work all around us: She makes them visible and legible.
Atwood began this work of naming and describing power 50 years ago, and she continued working on it as it cycled in and out of fashion. And now, at last, as she enters the elder statesman phase of her career, her time has come. The questions that have informed her work for the past 50 years are now some of the most urgent questions facing today’s society.
Correction: An earlier version of this article said that dystopias make up 5 of Atwood’s 17 books. They actually make up 5 of her 17 novels.
Halfway through Behold the Dreamers, Imbolo Mbue’s lush and lovely debut novel, Neni Jonga finds her employer, Cindy Edwards, unconscious on a bed, surrounded by pill bottles and an empty wineglass.
Neni is a Cameroonian immigrant, an aspiring pharmacist who’s earning some extra money by working as a temporary housekeeper for a wealthy family that also employs her husband as a chauffeur. It’s 2008, and Mr. Edwards works for Lehman Brothers, so things are tense. Still, Neni can’t imagine why Cindy — wealthy, beautiful Cindy — would need to take drugs.

Rating


She isn’t sure what to do. If she touches Cindy and then Cindy dies, will she be blamed? But if Cindy dies because Neni did nothing, won’t Neni also be to blame? She’s only barely documented; any trouble could get her deported.
So she wakes Cindy up, carries her out of bed, feeds her, and bathes her. The next day, she listens with compassion as Cindy explains her tragic backstory, how she grew up with nothing:
"I came from a poor family. A very, very poor family."
"Me, too, madam — "
Cindy shook her head. "No, you don’t understand," she said. "Being poor for you in Africa is fine. Most of you are poor over there. The shame of it, it’s not as bad for you."
Neni closed her eyes and nodded as if she completely understood and agreed.
It never occurs to Cindy to ask Neni about what her life is like, and Neni certainly doesn’t volunteer details. Their relationship is not reciprocal; it is transactional. But Neni is doing a lot more than Cindy is paying her to do.
The labor that Neni performs for Cindy in the above scene is not only physical; it is emotional. She’s asked not just to keep Cindy’s opulent Hamptons home spotless but also to take on Cindy’s psychological baggage, to soothe her and tend to her, to ignore her own interests and dignity in order to preserve her employer’s.
This is the slippage that lies at the heart of the impressive Behold the Dreamers: how easily the physical labor the Edwardses demand of the Jongas blurs into emotional labor.
So as Neni covers for Cindy’s ever-more-frequent drinking sprees, her husband Jende drives Clark Edwards to seedy hotel trysts with escorts. When Cindy asks him if Clark is cheating on her, he lies. He learns of Clark’s doubts about the worthiness of his work and his confused estrangement from his children. He acts as a kind of confessor in the front seat of the car, absolving Clark of his sins.
By the end of Behold the Dreamers, as Wall Street goes up in flames, it’s clear the Edwardses have outsourced all of their emotional labor to their household staff, and it’s taken a toll on the Jongas.
The toxic relationship between the Jongas and the Edwardses reveals itself slowly, almost imperceptibly. The Jongas are jubilant at the start of the novel, when Jende lies his way into the chauffeur job for the princely salary of $30,000 a year: At last, they say, they can start to save for a house! And then Neni can finish school and become a pharmacist, and their children will reap all the benefits of an American education, and they’ll truly be living the American dream.
But as they spend more time with the Edwardses, Jende and Neni begin to argue more and more. Jende starts telling Neni she’s stupid; Neni starts to hide things from Jende. She even begins to fear that he’ll beat her — but if he does, she thinks, she’ll know it wasn’t really him but "a grotesque being created by the sufferings of an American immigrant life."
It’s not all grotesque suffering, though. Mbue finds room in Behold the Dreamers to highlight moments of intense joy in the Jongas’ life: They feast on fried plantains and cocoyams and smoked turkey neck; they glory in Columbus Circle — "the center of the world"; and they dance ecstatically at a house party:
They jumped and skipped as they pumped their fists, shouting together as loud as they could, Blazo, blazo, zoblazo, on a gagné! On a gangné! When one of Jende’s non-African friends from work asked him what the song meant, he shouted, without pausing to catch his breath, it means we have won, man. It means we have won!
But as joyous as the moment is, it also invites the difficult question: What have they won? Was it just the opportunity to work for selfish wealthy people who unthinkingly suck the life out of them? Is that, ultimately, all the American dream has to offer the Jongas? And if it is, Behold the Dreamers asks, is it a dream worth dreaming?
Twenty years ago, on June 26, 1997, a small children’s press in the UK took a chance on a work of children’s fiction by a debut author — an unknown single mom who’d first gotten the idea for her story while stuck on a train seven years earlier.
That author was J.K. Rowling. And her book, Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone — published in the US a year later as Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone — would go on to change the world.
Related
Harry Potter became such an all-encompassing phenomenon that from this vantage point, it’s hard to see the full scope what it accomplished: It feels as though publishing and fandom and children’s literature and all of pop culture have always been the way we know them today. But Harry Potter had a measurable effect on everything it touched. It made YA book-to-movie franchises into one of the biggest forces in pop culture. It changed the business model for publishing books for kids. And it introduced an entire generation to the idea that it’s possible to interact with the pop culture you love — to write about it and with it, to make music and art about it, and to build a business around it.
Here’s a look back at the way Harry Potter changed and influenced online fandom, millennial culture, and the publishing industry.
Harry Potter did fine when it first emerged in the UK 20 years ago, winning a Smarties Award and garnering respectable sales for its publisher, Bloomsbury. But it only started to approach phenomenon levels when Scholastic bought the US publication rights for an astonishing $105,000, about 10 times more than the average foreign rights sale at the time.
Arthur Levine, the Scholastic editor who acquired the books, had an excellent eye for British books that would work in the US, having already acquired the US rights to Redwall and His Dark Materials. But even he didn’t know that Harry Potter would grow as big as it did. He just knew that he loved it and wanted to publish it. Scholastic President Barbara Marcus Barbara Marcus “kept saying ‘do you love it?’ and Arthur said yes, so we went for it,” a Scholastic spokesperson recalled in 2002. “I would have been willing to go further than that if I had to," Levine said in 2007.
The $105,000 sale granted Harry Potter two things: a built-in publicity hook, and a big budget.
The hook came from the press: Newspapers featured articles about the little English book that had garnered such a huge sale. Reviewers wanted to know what kind of book would justify that kind of money. It was a curiosity, and as such, it was a story.
The budget came from Scholastic itself. Whenever a publisher acquires a book, it creates a budget for that book. That budget is structured so that elevating the numbers in one category means elevating the numbers in the next category: If you’re going to invest $105,000 just in acquiring a book, you’re also going to pour extra money into marketing, publicity, and production, so that you have a reasonable chance of making that money back.
So Scholastic invested in a lovely hardcover design for Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone, with a soon-to-be iconic cover, even though conventional wisdom of the time held that children’s books only made money in paperback. It arranged for Harry Potter to be displayed on the front tables at bookstores, and for ads to appear in the right newspapers and magazines. In short, it gave the book many more resources than are typically afforded to the average debut novel from an unknown author, and that decision paid off.
But none of Scholastic’s efforts would have mattered in the end if the people who picked up the book hadn’t loved it. That’s what pulled Harry Potter out of flash-in-the-pan territory and elevated it into a phenomenon that defined childhood for an entire generation.
A 2012 study found that 55 percent of YA novels are bought by adults. In large part, that boom is courtesy of Harry Potter, which became a surprise crossover hit adored by both children and adults, and which made it acceptable for adults to read books that are ostensibly for children.
For some critics, that’s a worrisome development, suggesting that adults are too dull and stupid to appreciate books actually written for adults. But there are plenty of reasons for a grown person to enjoy Harry Potter.
The Harry Potter books combine the intricate plotting of a mystery with the sweep and scope of epic fantasy and the intimacy and character development of a classic boarding school narrative. The result is purely pleasurable to read at any age: The puzzlebox mystery plotting keeps the pages turning propulsively forward, the fantastic mythology gives the world scope and magic and joy, and the boarding school structure makes the characters warm and familiar and charming. It also makes their eventual death (for some) and trauma (for all) deeply affecting.
It’s true that Rowling’s prose is best described as workmanlike and competent; if the reason you read is solely to enjoy perfectly balanced and polished sentences, you may be best served elsewhere. But if you are an adult who can imagine reading for more than one reason (the pleasures of story, the joy of immersing yourself in another world), the Harry Potter books become enormously appealing.
Part of what made Harry Potter such a literary phenomenon is that so many kids were reading the books despite an unprecedented number of attempts to get them to stop reading the books.
The Harry Potter series, like many works of fantasy, involves wizardry and witchcraft. The feeling that the books thus promoted the occult proved to be the basis for constant challenges to the series’ presence in school libraries and bookstores by concerned conservative parents. The books first topped the American Library Association’s list of the most banned books of the year in 1999, and remained in the top spot for most of the next decade.
In some regions, pressure to censor the series was so high it led to lawsuits: In 2003, a judge ordered an Arkansas school district that had removed the books from schools due to promotion of “the religion of witchcraft” to return them. Similar formal attempts at removal persisted into the latter half of the decade, and the books continue to rile up conservative religious leaders who warn of its “demonic” influence.
But witchcraft wasn’t the only evil the books were accused of peddling. In 2007, after the series’ end, J.K. Rowling retroactively outed the powerful wizard Dumbledore as gay. The news prompted Christian scholars to declare the move “nonsense,” while queer fans were in turn angry that Rowling had done so little to make the queer subtext of Dumbledore’s character overt during the time he was actually being written (and alive). In recent years, Rowling has provoked controversy for her series’ lack of diversity, for denying queer sexuality of characters, and many, many more kerfuffles.
All of this controversy speaks not only to concerns that Rowling’s work would negatively influence children, but to the reality that many of those children grew up to be arguably even more progressive than the books they grew up reading — which is, in a way, a confirmation of conservatives’ worst fears about the series.
Here are just two of the ways Harry Potter changed publishing, and how those changes affected the rest of pop culture:
1) The books made it possible to publish long works aimed at children. Prior to Harry Potter, the accepted wisdom was that kids didn’t have the attention span to read long books. And anyway, the thinking went, kids weren’t buying their own books. Their parents were paying for everything, and they would never be willing to pay an extra dollar or two for a longer book, with its extra printing and binding.
But after Harry Potter became an unstoppable cultural force, and it was clear that fans would keep buying the books no matter what, it started to expand. The last four volumes of the series are all doorstoppers that clock in at well over 700 pages each.
Publishers and children’s writers took notice. Booklist found that middle-grade novels expanded 115.5 percent between 2006 and 2016, the decade in which the Potter novels were at their longest. (They rose only 37.37 percent between 1996 and 2006.)
Related
2) Harry Potter made children’s literature an unstoppable force. Before Harry Potter, children’s literature was often considered an afterthought. Sales were falling. Children, analysts would say wistfully, just weren’t reading anymore.
After Harry Potter, children’s literature became a category full of mega-sellers. In 2004, in the midst of the Harry Potter phenomenon, sales of non-Potter kid lit were increasing by 2 percent a year. Since then, the children’s market as a whole has seen its sales increase by a total of 52 percent (4 percent a year). For comparison, the overall book market has gone up a mere 33 percent since 2004.
The Harry Potter generation likes to read, for sure — millennials read more than any other generation — and it also created a cultural landscape in which books for children are major cultural forces, and a go-to well of ideas for Hollywood. Movie studios scour the children’s bestseller lists for properties they can turn into the next Harry Potter: hence Twilight and The Hunger Games and Divergent and all the rest. Before Harry Potter, the YA book-to-movie franchise was not a cliché. It is now, and that’s because the boy wizard and his friends transformed an entire industry.
Harry Potter has a tremendously outsized cultural reach: One 2011 survey suggested that a third of all American adults ages 18 to 34 at the time had read at least one of the books. But what really makes Harry Potter stand out is the way people loved (and continue to love) Harry Potter.
First and foremost, the series helped make it cool to be a geek. People generally didn’t read the Harry Potter books in isolation; they wanted to talk about it with their friends, and then find more friends who loved the books as much as they did. This pattern coincided with the rise of “Web 2.0” — that is, an increasingly interactive and social internet. As more Harry Potter fans became more active online, they made discussion of YA fiction, fantasy, and science fiction seem commonplace.
This was still a pretty bold concept in the early 2000s; geek culture was largely still underground, and fantasy was seen mainly as an immature hobby — for instance, in 2003, critic A.S. Byatt’s excoriation of “Harry Potter and the childish adult” claimed that adults “like to regress” when they read children’s literature. But between Harry Potter, the Lord of the Rings film adaptations, and the emerging visibility of online Harry Potter fandom, it was increasingly difficult to ignore fantasy and science fiction as a driving force of culture, and to write off fans of these genres as niche. By the time Twilight took over from Harry Potter as the reigning young adult phenomenon in 2005, the idea of a modern, mainstream fandom coalescing around a major sci-fi/fantasy series was well-established and generally accepted.
And Harry Potter fans’ creativity is still being felt in and outside of the fandom. In the early 2000s, Harry Potter fan forums, fanfiction and fan art archives, and email discussion groups exploded across the internet. Harry Potter conventions drew thousands of fans, and Harry Potter cosplay became a well-known sight at larger geek and comic cons.
Around the same time, the “Wizard Rock” trend (shorthanded Wrock) gained momentum as Harry Potter fans on YouTube formed a litany of music groups — the first one being Harry and the Potters — devoted to personifying and singing about various characters from the books. It was later joined by another totally unique-to-Harry-Potter fan pursuit: Quidditch. In 2005, students at Vermont’s Middlebury college created the first real-life Quidditch game, which went on to spawn an international real-world college sport.
A number of Harry Potter fans also went on to make significant marks on mainstream culture. As a member of the University of Michigan theater troupe Starkid, a young Darren Criss starred as Harry Potter in the viral YouTube video A Very Potter Musical, and his popularity catapulted him into the role of Blaine on Glee and a career on Broadway.
Two longtime members of Harry Potter fandom, siblings John and Hank Green — now known more widely as the Vlogbrothers — got their start on YouTube during the site’s relative infancy, but it wasn’t until Hank Green’s 2007 song “Accio Deathly Hallows” went viral on the eve of the final Harry Potter book’s release that they became the true YouTube stars and industry success models they are today.
And the list goes on: The author of the bestselling Mortal Instruments series, Cassandra Clare first gained fame online as Cassandra Claire, author of the incredibly popular Harry Potter fanfic The Draco Trilogy. Other Harry Potter fans, like fan convention organizer Melissa Anelli and social activist Andrew Slack launched careers directly out of Harry Potter fandom. In general, the Harry Potter fandom was among the first to see a number of people actively leveraging their success through fandom toward their professional careers. Just as Harry Potter made it easier for fans to own their geeky habits, the Harry Potter fandom made it easier for fans to market those geeky habits as professional assets.
What made all of this possible — the industries transformed, the careers built — are the books themselves, and the expansive, wondrous world they created. The Harry Potter series is a phenomenon not just because it had a good publicity and marketing budget (although that helped) and not just because the curiosity and controversy surrounding it made it appealing to the press (although that helped). The Harry Potter series is a phenomenon because it tells a story that millions of people loved, and it introduced the world to an enormous and magical world that millions of people have dreamed of escaping into.
That’s why we’re still talking about these books 20 years later, and that’s why all of this matters.


Wonder Woman made an estimated $25 million at the US box office this weekend, and in doing so set a new record: The movie is now the biggest live-action movie in Hollywood history directed by a woman.
According to Box Office Mojo, Wonder Woman has made $652 million worldwide and $318 million domestically since its release on June 2. The previous record holder was the Abba-inspired musical Mamma Mia, which was directed by Phyllida Lloyd and made $609 million worldwide ($144 million domestic) in 2008.
Related
In terms of superhero films, Wonder Woman has already made more money domestically than movies like The Amazing Spider-Man (2012), Man of Steel (2013), Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014), and Doctor Strange (2016). It has yet to beat those movies in worldwide box office figures, but it’s only in the fourth week of its theatrical run and will likely remain in theaters for several more weeks.
It’s also within striking distance of the domestic hauls for last year’s Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice ($330 million) and Suicide Squad ($325 million). What separates those two movies from Wonder Woman is that Wonder Woman has seen less of a decrease in box office sales since its opening weekend. Batman v Superman and Suicide Squad both saw dramatic drops after their premieres (and in Batman v Superman’s case, that drop was a historic one).
Related
These numbers matter to both fans and Hollywood insiders, because there’s unbelievable pressure on Wonder Woman to do well at the box office. It’s an unfortunate reality that in the past, poorly received female superhero movies like Catwoman and Elektra have been cited as a reason not to create more superhero movies centered on female characters. Though, given Wonder Woman’s success, a sequel at this point is nearly inevitable — it’s simply a matter of giving director Patty Jenkins what she wants.
Every May, the Television Circle of Life giveth and taketh away as the broadcast networks — ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox, and the CW — set their schedules for the next TV season. The process inevitably involves each network taking a hard look at its existing programming lineup, to decide which shows to keep and which ones to cut.
And while lots of the verdicts are already in, plenty of shows are still on the bubble. Below, we’ve compiled a comprehensive list of all the broadcast shows you can expect to see again in the coming year, all the ones to which you’ll have to bid adieu, and all the ones that are still awaiting their fate. Stay tuned; we’ll be updating this list as more news comes in.
2 Broke Girls (CBS)
24: Legacy (Fox)
APB (Fox)
American Crime (ABC)
American Gothic (CBS)
Aquarius (NBC)
The Blacklist: Redemption (NBC)
Bones (Fox)
BrainDead (CBS)
The Catch (ABC)
Chicago Justice (NBC)
Conviction (ABC)
Criminal Minds: Beyond Borders (CBS)
Doubt (CBS)
Downward Dog (ABC)
Dr. Ken (ABC)
Emerald City (NBC)
Frequency (The CW)
The Great Indoors (CBS)
Grimm (NBC)
Imaginary Mary (ABC)
Last Man Standing (ABC)
Making History (Fox)
Mistresses (ABC)
No Tomorrow (The CW)
Notorious (ABC)
The Odd Couple (CBS)
Pitch (Fox)
Powerless (NBC)
Pure Genius (CBS)
The Real O’Neals (ABC)
Reign (The CW)
Rosewood (Fox)
Secrets and Lies (ABC)
Sleepy Hollow (Fox)
Son of Zorn (Fox)
Time After Time (ABC)
Training Day (CBS)
The Vampire Diaries (The CW)
The 100 (The CW)
The $100,000 Pyramid (ABC)
The Amazing Race (CBS)
America’s Got Talent (NBC)
America’s Funniest Home Videos (ABC)
American Grit (Fox)
American Housewife (ABC)
American Ninja Warrior (NBC)
Arrow (The CW)
The Bachelor (ABC)
Bachelor in Paradise (ABC)
Black-ish (ABC)
The Blacklist (NBC)
The Big Bang Theory (CBS) — The long-running comedy has been renewed through the 2018-’19 TV season.
Big Brother (CBS)
Blindspot (NBC)
Blue Bloods (CBS)
Bob’s Burgers (Fox)
Brooklyn Nine-Nine (Fox)
Bull (CBS)
The Carmichael Show (NBC) — Season three premieres May 31; the show is not yet renewed beyond that point.
Celebrity Family Feud (ABC)
Chicago Fire (NBC)
Chicago Med (NBC)
Chicago P.D. (NBC)
Code Black (CBS)
Crazy Ex-Girlfriend (The CW)
Criminal Minds (CBS)
Dancing With the Stars (ABC)
Designated Survivor (ABC)
DC’s Legends of Tomorrow (The CW)
Elementary (CBS)
Empire (Fox)
The Exorcist (Fox)
The Flash (The CW)
Fresh Off the Boat (ABC)
The Goldbergs (ABC) – The show has been renewed through the 2018-’19 TV season.
The Good Fight (CBS All Access)
The Good Place (NBC)
Gotham (Fox)
Great News (NBC)
Grey’s Anatomy (ABC)
Hawaii Five-0 (CBS)
How to Get Away With Murder (ABC)
Hollywood Game Night (NBC) — Season five premieres August 7; the show is not yet renewed beyond that point.
iZombie (The CW)
Jane the Virgin (The CW)
Kevin Can Wait (CBS)
The Last Man on Earth (Fox)
Law & Order: SVU (NBC)
Lethal Weapon (Fox)
Life in Pieces (CBS)
Lucifer (Fox)
MacGyver (CBS)
Madam Secretary (CBS)
Man With a Plan (CBS)
Marvel’s Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. (ABC)
MasterChef (Fox) — Season eight premieres this summer; the show is not yet renewed beyond that point.
The Mick (Fox)
The Middle (ABC)
Modern Family (ABC) — The long-running comedy has been renewed through the 2018-’19 TV season.
Mom (CBS)
New Girl (Fox) — The comedy has been renewed for a seventh and final season.
NCIS (CBS)
NCIS: Los Angeles (CBS)
NCIS: New Orleans (CBS)
The Night Shift (NBC) — Season four premieres June 22; the show is not yet renewed beyond that point.
Once Upon a Time (ABC)
The Originals (The CW)
Quantico (ABC)
Riverdale (The CW)
Scandal (ABC) — Season seven will be the show’s last.
Scorpion (CBS)
Scream Queens (Fox)
Shades of Blue (NBC)
Shark Tank (ABC)
The Simpsons (Fox) — The legendary animated comedy is renewed through the 2018-’19 TV season, when it will air its 30th season and break the record for longest-running scripted show of all time.
So You Think You Can Dance (Fox) — Season 14 premieres June 12; the show is not yet renewed beyond that point.
Speechless (ABC)
Star (Fox)
Supergirl (The CW)
Superior Donuts (CBS)
Supernatural (The CW)
Superstore (NBC)
Survivor (CBS)
Taken (NBC)
This Is Us (NBC) — Last fall’s breakout hit is renewed through the 2018-’19 TV season.
Timeless (NBC) — After initially canceling the time travel drama, NBC changed its mind and picked it up for a 10-episode second season that will air in summer 2018.
Trial & Error (NBC)
The Voice (NBC)
Whose Line Is It Anyway? (The CW)
The X-Files (Fox)
Zoo (CBS)
The Biggest Loser (NBC)
Celebrity Apprentice (NBC)
Family Guy (Fox)
Hell’s Kitchen (Fox)
Little Big Shots (NBC)
Match Game (ABC)
MasterChef Junior (Fox)
Prison Break (Fox)
Ransom (CBS)
Shots Fired (Fox)
Undercover Boss (CBS)
Wayward Pines (Fox)
World’s Funniest (Fox)
The Harry Potter books have sold more than 400 million copies worldwide and been translated into more than 60 languages. The books are filled with a tricky mix of wordplay, invented words,  songs, allusions, British cultural references, and more. Translators were tasked with adapting J.K. Rowling's devices to fit the language and culture of their target audience.
Translators weren't given a head-start — they had to wait until the English editions came out to begin the difficult and lengthy task of adapting the books. Working day and night, translators were racing against intense deadlines. Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, the longest book in the series at 870 pages for the US edition, was originally published on June 21, 2003. Its first official translation appeared in Vietnamese on July 21, 2003. Not long after, the Serbian edition was released in early September 2003. Still, groups of eager fans around the world, unwilling to wait for the official translations, took matters into their own hands and translated the book themselves. And there are also complete rip-offs of the Harry Potter books, including Harry Potter and the Half Blooded Relative Prince, Harry Potter and the Filler of Big, and Tanya Grotter and the Magical Double Bass, to name a few.
But how were translators able to bridge the gap between the English  editions and their target readers? How do you translate  Quidditch into Dutch?
Check out the video above to see some of the choices translators made while adapting this beloved series for readers around the world. You can listen to snippets of the Harry Potter and Philosopher's Stone in various languages from the University of Calgary's collection.
A throng of breathless teens craned for a look at their idol, or at the very least, a glimpse of her hair as she whipped around a corner. Some of them had been lining up for hours to take selfies, buy her branded merch, and, most importantly, get 30 seconds of face time with someone who means the entire world to them.
That someone, as it so happens, was a drag queen named Naomi Smalls, who stands 7 feet tall in heels and sports eyelashes so long and bedazzled I could see them sparkling from three booths away. Everyone screamed as she got to the front of her line, inspiring her to fluff her hair and flash a bright smile that indicated she was ready for her close-up. She turned to the first people in line — two teenage girls who only barely reached her chest — and wrapped her arms around them. Each of the girls tried (and failed) to keep from sobbing through the picture.
This was the spirit of DragCon, a sprawling shrine to all things drag but especially to alums of the reality competition show RuPaul’s Drag Race, which wrapped its ninth season on June 23 by crowning Brooklyn queen Sasha Velour as America’s Next Drag Superstar. The first ever DragCon in 2015 attracted about 15,000 attendees for a weekend of panels, pictures, and painstaking choices over which queen’s shirt they should buy (i.e., which queen deserved their allegiance). The third annual edition attracted triple that first audience this April, as some 45,000 people swarmed the Los Angeles Convention Center with the kind of frantic enthusiasm usually reserved for boy band photo calls.
Then again, to many of these Drag Race fans, that’s exactly what DragCon is: a place where anyone and everyone can come within 6 feet of their most beloved icons.
But when I went to the first DragCon, I was struck by how many of these screaming, sobbing teens — many of them the cis girl teens you might otherwise expect to fight for an autograph from a Harry Styles rather than a Naomi Smalls — swarmed the floor. I knew Drag Race was popular, but I didn’t realize how much it had traveled beyond its initial cult audience of queer men and women already ensconced in drag culture to reach this younger, hungry generation of fans.
The same held true — even more so — at 2017’s DragCon. Time and time again, I watched as kids with braces and fledgling attempts at facial contouring traded intel on which queens would be signing things where, swarmed a Teen Vogue panel (“Resistance in Trump’s America”), posed for pictures while their beaming parents stood by, and struggled to hold back rapturous tears in front of their favorite queens. When they did get the chance to actually ask a question, sure, some took the opportunity to show off their encyclopedic knowledge of which queen threw shade during which challenge, or to ask for the kind of behind-the-scenes gossip not even the infamous Drag Race subreddit might have.
But for the most part, these kids just wanted advice.
After RuPaul’s keynote (the final event of the con), one 19-year-old girl summoned the courage to go up in front of hundreds of fellow fans and ask her idol, through so many sobs we could barely understand her, “How do you wake up in the morning and tell yourself you’re beautiful?”
It was a startling moment, but one I’ve come to expect from Drag Race fans after watching, loving, and researching the show’s larger impact for years. The series has always leaned into the human ache to find self-acceptance, and it came up again and again throughout DragCon.
At the “Call Me Mother” panel for “junior fans,” in which the standing mic kept having to be adjusted lower so the tweens standing on tiptoes could reach it, queens answered questions about how they combat stage fright, project confidence, and even stay sober. At one point, Adore Delano — who modeled her persona after the Southern California girls she envied in high school and has more than a million Instagram followers — looked out at the room, teared up, and admitted, “You give me confidence I never had.”
And when one tiny girl in a flower crown asked what it’s like for the queens to know that so many young fans watch the show, Joslyn Fox’s painted face immediately softened into a warm smile. “I see me in you,” Joslyn said, “and me being myself is what inspires you.”
And she’s right. For these hordes of glitter-faced kids, DragCon was a chance to meet the people who not only make them gasp and laugh in awe, but show them what it looks like to live life as someone who’s both entirely yourself and completely spectacular. But well outside of the walls of the con itself, Drag Race has catapulted drag culture far beyond its traditional confines of clubs and bars through word of mouth and the simultaneous rise of social media.
So while the show has broadened drag’s audience in general, its younger audience in particular has exploded into a community all its own.
When RuPaul’s Drag Race debuted in 2009, it embodied the determined spirit that drag has been thriving under for decades. With self-proclaimed Supermodel of the World RuPaul playing host, judge, and mentor, Drag Race first aired on Logo, a so-called “niche” channel prioritizing gay programming for just a couple hundred thousand viewers per episode. The series spotlighted the many skills required to be a truly legendary queen, making it a sort of American Idol meets Project Runway hybrid that also required its contestants to crack a joke at a moment’s notice.
It was scrappy, ready to make something out of a seemingly minuscule budget — and inevitably so dazzling that you’d have to be an entirely joyless person to tear your eyes away as towering talents like BeBe Zahara Benet and Nina Flowers strutted down Ru’s catwalk. Challenges ran the gamut from turning 99-cent store items into haute couture, hosting talk shows, and voguing down the runway à la the seminal New York nightlife documentary Paris Is Burning.
From the start, the key to the show’s success — not to mention drag in general — was its unfailing ability to find joy and wit in anything and everything. As RuPaul’s guiding mantra puts it: RuPaul’s Drag Race rarely takes life, or itself, very seriously at all.
But the show isn’t all about irreverence. From that very first season, the queens let their meticulously crafted personas fall away to let viewers, each other, and even themselves understand the real people underneath. They revealed heartbreaking histories of being shunned for who they are; they shared the joy of finding love. Some came out as transgender, as HIV positive, as struggling with eating disorders. They bonded with each other, finding kindred spirits in their mutual commitment to being beautiful and unlike anyone else, no matter what narrow-minded bullshit life might throw in their way.
So, yes, Drag Race can make for some high-powered bitchy fun — but more than anything, it means watching some smart-as-hell artists fight for the right to be the very best versions of themselves and love themselves for it. As RuPaul says at the end of every single episode: “If you don’t love yourself, how in the hell are you gonna love somebody else? Can I get an amen?” (Amen.)
This combination of smarts and heart launched RuPaul’s Drag Race from cult favorite to bona fide phenomenon. Its ratings have steadily increased year over year, with this year’s season nine moving from Logo to the more readily accessible VH1. The show’s alums — of which there are well over 100 at this point — often go on to sell out shows, attract many thousands of Instagram followers, star in music videos and web series to millions of views, and even headline worldwide tours. To their most dedicated fans, the queens’ lives almost become another show outside the show itself; as with any huge pop or movie star beloved among #teens, no detail is too small to obsess over.
Fenton Bailey and Randy Barbato — longtime friends of RuPaul and co-founders of World of Wonder, the production studio that first guided Drag Race to the airwaves — say they always believed in the potential of Drag Race, especially with RuPaul leading the way.
“It’s RuPaul that makes drag accessible and fun and something that everyone can enjoy,” Barbato said in the week before DragCon. “It’s just taken a few minutes for him, the show, and drag to arrive at the place that we always thought it was destined to arrive.”
Or as Bailey put it, rather more bluntly: “He’s a motherfuckin’ star ... it’s really just been a question of waiting for the world to catch up.”
The season of Drag Race most people point to as the game changer is the fourth, which aired in 2012 and featured such series standouts as the simultaneously no-nonsense and hilarious Latrice Royale, paper-dry comedian Willam, and eventual winner Sharon Needles (tagline: “when in doubt, freak ’em out”). But longtime judge and RuPaul confidant Michelle Visage says it was in 2013, between seasons five and six, that she really saw a difference in the Drag Race audience start to emerge.
As she and the queens started to do more gigs outside of the bar scene in order to accommodate more fans, Visage told me recently in a recent phone interview, they’d see “lots of young kids, little boys dressed in drag with their moms, a lot of teenage girls. … Drag Race went from [serving] a cult gay following to a necessary television show that opens the dialogue of ‘I'm not normal and it’s okay.’”
As Visage and others like Barbato and Bailey see it, Drag Race has made a concerted effort to open its community to a younger generation that’s been traditionally limited in terms of how it could interact with the proud freaks of drag. Even if queer kids longing for community sneaked into drag clubs — as they have for years — they hardly got to see their queen fantasies in broad daylight on convention floors alongside parent chaperones, their safety all but guaranteed.
“This is so much more than just a television show to these people,” Visage said. “This is bigger than any of us could have imagined. It's only grown, and grown, and grown.”
Spent the morning arguing with my 14-year-old cousin about "what makes good drag" in case you're wondering if RuPaul has changed the world.
“Before Drag Race, most of my fans were anyone who was old enough to hang out in a gay bar or club,” season nine finalist Peppermint — a New York City drag staple for going on 20 years — said in an email. “Now, that’s completely changed.”
On this point, literally every single Drag Race queen I interviewed for this piece agreed. Season 9 winner Sasha Velour said her fans used to consist of people who lived within “a 20-block radius of my house and came to my drag show … which was also in a 20-block radius of my house.” Now, she says, “I’m able to talk to people literally across the world, people who I’d be best friends with, people I deeply connect with."
And if you don’t believe her, believe the stats: Sasha had fewer than 2,000 Instagram followers before appearing on the show; after she won, she had over 400,000, many of them ferociously dedicated teens pledging their allegiance to “the House of Velour.” Much to her own thrilled surprise, Sasha has found that having younger fans means having fans who rarely question that a drag look can center on gender-bending weirdness and a prominent unibrow.
“Teens can be really forward-thinking when it comes to drag aesthetics,” Sasha said. “I never felt that I had to defend my style of drag or my more androgynous fashions.”
SPOILERS AHEAD : miss @sashavelour, proud isn't enough of a word tonight. you are a fucking SUPERSTAR. from first finding you on youtube in january to watching you win $100,000 and a goddamn crown, you have made me breathless with your art so many times. thank you for being the artist, person, and role model i have always wanted to exist in this community. thank you for uplifting young queer artists. thank you for believing in me and my photography. thank you for being uniquely sasha in everything you do. i know you're gonna use your platform as the winner of drag race to make our little drag world a little more strange and a little more sasha -- and change it for the better. you've definitely changed my world for the better in the short time i've known you. i love you always. YOU FUCKING DID THAT AND YOU WON. ( i guess i can stop drawing little crowns above your head now that you've got a real one. )
A post shared by aj    (@trixxya) on Jun 23, 2017 at 6:29pm PDT
Between the immediacy of social media, drag’s increased focus on all-ages events, and Drag Race making a concerted effort to appeal to its younger audience with educational segments and younger contestants, today’s teenagers — whether they’re loitering on New York City corners or finding community in the Deep South or partying in Brazil — can now be involved in the drag scene as they’ve literally never been able to before. They can find the queens they love on Instagram, laugh at their YouTube series, tag them in fan art, and find other fans on Tumblr. They can, in other words, find a community of fellow freaks in a minute flat of Googling.
As for the teen girl fans … well, there was no one better to ask about them than Visage, who found her way into drag’s subculture as a restless teen girl herself.
“I realized, these little girls are me. This is who I was as a kid,” she said. “They are the girls that don't fit in; they are the girls that are awkward.”
To find her chosen family, teenage Visage — blue mohawk, musical theater obsession and all — had to leave New Jersey for New York’s East Village, where she snuck into clubs, met RuPaul, and became part of a girl group. But now, she said with some wonder, girls like her can turn on the TV or open Instagram and in an instant find the fabulous freaks she struggled to discover.
At DragCon, Acid Betty — a season eight alum with 16 years of drag experience and a penchant for elaborate mohawks — marveled she’s never seen drag be “more accepted and more mainstream” than it is today.
“Now we’re out in fluorescent lights having conventions all weekend long with kid zones,” she said, eyes flickering to the corner with bouncy castles and a designated parking section for strollers. “It’s fantastic.”
For what it’s worth, RuPaul himself doesn’t quite agree with the “mainstream” label. As he told Vulture in 2016 while season eight was airing, he believes that drag will always be “the antithesis of mainstream” by its very nature of trying to fuck with the status quo. But he also conceded that Drag Race’s popularity may be “the most mainstream [drag] will get,” especially as a new generation of would-be drag queens get inspired by his own show. In his eyes, season eight — starring Naomi Smalls, popular Instagram artist Kim Chi, and “the people’s drag queen” Bob — became what Ru called “the children's Drag Race,” featuring “the kids who grew up watching it.”
Naomi Smalls, who told me in a recent interview with some amused confusion that her fan base seems to consist of kids from 4 years old to 17, said she loves to be a more “accessible” kind of icon for her fans. “When I was their age, it wasn’t as easy to go and meet Lady Gaga,” Naomi said. “I think it's so cool that they have these accessible drag queens they can gravitate toward.”
And that accessibility goes beyond the simple logistics of time, place, and age restrictions. During Naomi’s season, Kim Chi became a fan favorite for being open about not being comfortable telling her mother that she does drag at all, and the struggle that came from growing up not just closeted but “fat, femme, and Asian.” When Ru asked Kim Chi at the end of the season to give her younger self advice, she broke down, but found a way to say that “the things that you're ashamed of are going to be the things people love you for” — which was true.
That ability to be a role model for kids who don’t see themselves reflected in pop culture and/or want to be as fierce as their gender-bending idols can be the true reward for queens involved with the show — especially because there’s something familiar to them about these younger fans’ enthusiasm.
“I always thought that drag is a natural thing for little kids [to be into],” Sasha told me at DragCon. “I feel most connected to my little kid self when I'm doing drag, because I know that that idea of play and flexibility with what my identity is, or could be, is something that children immediately connect with. I think we're going to have a whole generation of amazing adults from these kids that love Drag Race.”
And the kids are, indeed, growing up alongside the show. “Some people come to me and say, ‘I’ve been watching you since I was in the eighth grade,’” season two (and three) queen Shangela told me at DragCon, eyebrows raising in faux outrage before she burst into laughter. Having first appeared on Drag Race as a newbie 23-year-old, Shangela acknowledged that her drag persona “really did grow up in front of a lot of people’s eyes — and with a lot of people, too.”
The power drag queens now have to connect with people on such a large scale, through the show and the internet alike, is an incredibly powerful resource. But as countless celebrities have discovered before and since, the new ability fans have to reach their idols can go awry — and so it has at times for Drag Race, in a way the show is no longer able to ignore.
Not every drag queen is so thrilled about how Drag Race has rebranded drag as a prominent pop culture fixture. Queens like Sharon Needles routinely try to remind fans to learn about the actual history of drag beyond the show, while season seven contestant Jasmine Masters famously declared that “Drag Race fucked up drag” by creating a culture wherein queens who haven’t been on the show get shut out in favor of anyone who has, regardless of their other qualifications or lack thereof.
To that point, one side effect of Drag Race becoming as popular as it has is that in many ways, the queens are no longer playing for the actual title of America’s Next Drag Superstar. Instead, they’re keeping an eye toward what happens after the show, and how to parlay their newfound fame into a lasting career.
People playing for their post-show careers, to be frank, has made for some less than exciting seasons of Drag Race. While the messier, more under-the-radar early seasons featured queens going off on each other at the drop of an eyelash, the contestants of later seasons tend to be much more cautious, much more aware of how any shady comment could get ripped apart by the show’s most enthusiastic fans — many of them teens — who can be eager to find (or stir up) drama where there might not even be any.
Drag race is a great entertainment. Don't take the fun out of it by feeling the need to attack any queen from the show.
The queens’ heightened self-awareness made for some fascinating TV during 2016’s self-referential All Stars 2. Favorites like season seven’s Katya and season five’s Alaska Thunderfuck and Alyssa Edwards returned to the show, having already learned what their time on air had done for their careers, and figured out how to either change or exploit their reputations.
But All Stars 2 made it clear how much the game had changed offscreen, too. There have always been Drag Race fans who target some queens specifically, but the line between contestant and viewer has never been thinner than in the past couple of years, as queens have come to rely on social media more than ever to boost their profiles. And if a fan base sees a reason to go after someone … well, it can get ugly, fast.
At one point in All Stars 2, for example, Alaska’s perceived sneakiness led fans to descend upon her Twitter and Instagram comments with line upon line of snake emojis. Alaska, being a particularly smart comedy queen, almost immediately turned the controversy into a winking “fuck you if you don’t like it” set of videos, starring herself as the Queen of Snakes.
But while Alaska bounced back from that harassment, watching the way season nine has been received by fans has felt like watching a whole other show.
It all came to a head when Valentina, a fan favorite among younger viewers in particular, got eliminated far earlier than expected for not knowing the words to a lip sync. Some furious fans took to other queens’ social media to hurl epithets and threats their way, turning previously supportive spaces into cesspools of abuse.
Aja, a season nine competitor who once questioned why the judges loved Valentina in a scathing (and, frankly, masterful) run that’s since become its own dance anthem, was so bombarded with hate that she turned the experience (and the comments themselves) into an uncharacteristically somber act.
This season nine phenomenon was eventually addressed on the reunion episode, which was taped recently enough for the contestants to ask Valentina point blank why she wasn’t speaking out against the abuse.
“I don’t agree with that kind of behavior because that’s not the kind of person that I am,” Valentina finally said, at which point Peppermint threw up her hands and sputtered, “Why didn’t you say that on the media?!” After the reunion aired, Valentina asked her fans to put rose emojis on the other queens’ Instagrams as a sign of goodwill — a move that maybe tried to subvert the hate expressed through Alaska’s snake emoji onslaught, but some may have found to be more passive-aggressive than genuinely affectionate.
It’s the kind of conflict that even a few years ago might have felt hyperbolic. But now, as Drag Race celebrity has to contend with the same kind of passionate online circles that pop stars have been shying away from for decades, it’s something the queens have to consider from here on out.
“It makes me sad that these kids think it’s okay to put so much hate out in the universe,” says Visage. “Now more than ever, we need kids to post roses and mean it.”
As with most online bullshit, though, that abusive faction of the Drag Race fandom is a vocal minority. While some fans abuse the fact that Drag Race contestants are so accessible, so many more are creating beautiful art and expressing real love for the queens in a way that reminds them of why they wanted to be on Drag Race in the first place.
After the season nine reunion reopened that firestorm of inter-fan fighting, for instance, other fans started supportive hashtags for their favorite queens to buoy their spirits. Searching the #SmilesForSasha hashtag reveals a whole host of beaming teen fans thanking Sasha Velour for being someone who “always makes me smile,” for “helping me to accept myself,” or, more simply, for being “my everything.”
There are, in other words, a whole mess of youth finding a piece of themselves in someone they may not have expected, but are endlessly grateful to have found.
Whatever ugliness might have arisen throughout the season, Peppermint wrote to me, she still loves to use social media “to connect with younger queer youth who may feel isolated and alone in their community.” After all, she continued, “that sense of community we feel in the bars isn’t necessarily available to those teens — but they still need someone to hear them.”
Maybe it’s as simple as that: These kids don’t just want to be listened to — they want to be truly heard, seen, and loved for the beautiful weirdos they are. They can look to people who embrace their strangeness like Sasha, are frank about their anxiety like Katya, allow themselves to be open about their struggles like Kim Chi. They can see these queens acknowledge their vulnerability and emerge more gorgeous than ever, even as they stitch together some last minute eleganza from literal scraps.
Sometimes — and especially when you’re a kid and everything feels like the best and worst colliding in your heart and brain all at once — you just need reassurance that you’re worthy from someone you think might actually understand.
So, no, I wasn’t surprised when that girl at DragCon let herself cry and ask RuPaul, Supermodel of the World, how he gets up every day and knows he’s beautiful — and neither was RuPaul. As the girl fought to keep her composure, he walked to the edge of the stage and held her gaze.
“I’m looking at you,” RuPaul told her, “and you’re beautiful.”
When I was 9 years old, the greatest day of the school year was the day of the Scholastic Book Fair.
Scholastic would set up shop in the school library, piling stack after stack of shiny new books on the tables. They gleamed against the library’s familiar collection of shabby older books, and I would wade into the feast and glut myself.
Mostly I went for the paperbacks; I had a book-a-day habit, and hardcovers were a rare treat. But when I first saw the purple and gold hardcover of J.K. Rowling’s Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone, spangled with stars and looking weighty and solemn and magical, I couldn’t resist picking it up.
Mr. and Mrs. Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were proud to say that they were perfectly normal, thank you very much.
"Mom," I said, "can I get this one? Please?"
Last summer, when Scholastic released the script book for Harry Potter and the Cursed Child — a play by Rowling, Jack Thorne, and John Tiffany that’s currently onstage in London — its publication was accompanied by all the theatricality we’ve come to associate with Harry Potter releases: midnight launch parties, embargoes, and a furious black market for spoilers. It’s easy to forget, in the face of all the hoopla, that back in 1998 Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone was just another book on the Scholastic Book Fair tables.
Sure, even then the book had high production values. Scholastic had shelled out $105,000 for American rights to the title — about 10 times the average — and the publisher wanted to recoup some of its costs. While the book’s British sales had been healthy, there was no indication at that stage that this particular book would become a beloved international bestseller.
But Scholastic had high hopes. So it invested in the production design, which including an eye-catching and soon-to-be-iconic cover. Rowling’s editors pushed her to let them alter the original title, Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone, by taking out "philosopher" to make the book more appealing to children. (Scholastic actually wanted to go with Harry Potter and the School of Magic; Rowling was the one who came up with "sorcerer’s stone.")
The company developed a reasonably aggressive marketing campaign — no midnight release parties, just standard bookselling tricks like paying for the book to be displayed on the front tables at Barnes & Noble.
Still, this was nothing out of the ordinary. It was a budget on the high end of normal.
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone was just a book. A normal book with all the other normal books at the Scholastic Book Fair.
And then, of course, magic happened, and the book became a phenomenon.
The Harry Potter books are a mishmash of a few different genres. The later books feature a lot of epic fantasy/hero’s journey stuff and coming-of-age stuff, but all of that’s mostly gestured at in Sorcerer’s Stone. In some places — most notably Harry’s climactic confrontation with dull, stammering Professor Quirrell and a Voldemort who has not yet managed to acquire a personality — it’s downright weak.
But what works in this first book really works. And that’s the puzzle box mystery, the world building, and, most of all, the British boarding school tropes.
Rowling loves to misdirect, to hide her villains in plain sight and distract you with innocent red herrings. By the end of the series we were all wise to her tricks, but in Sorcerer’s Stone it was downright shocking to learn that, no, the sinister potions instructor who’s always swooping around like a bat and saying menacing things is not, in fact, the villain. The villain is that random guy in the background with the funny hat.
And then, of course, there’s the enormous, expansive reality of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and all the rest of the wizarding world. Most of it doesn’t make all that much sense — never try to make the math of the Harry Potter books work, you will get nothing out of it but a headache — but who needs sense when you have scope? It all feels real.
Rowling has a knack for crafting exact, specific details that make a world feel solid and lived-in. The witch Harry passes in Diagon Alley who’s complaining about the price of dragon liver, Ollivander measuring the space between Harry’s nostrils to fit him for a wand, the cart full of magical candies on the Hogwarts Express: It all comes together to create the sense of a vast, breathing world with its own rigorous rules and systems, one that keeps on existing when Harry’s not looking. It’s teeming with life, and it’s enchanting.
But what really brings this magical world to life is the fact that it exists within a British boarding school novel. As literary critic David Steege (among others) has pointed out, the Harry Potter books draw on the long tradition of "public school stories" that reached their peak in 1857 with Tom Brown’s School Days. These types of tales all concern wealthy bourgeois children having joyous school day adventures at various elite British boarding schools. They’re ubiquitous in the UK, and they come with all sorts of codified tropes.
As outlined in 1941 by one Edward C. Mack (and quoted by Steege), such tropes are as follows:
A boy enters school in some fear and trepidation, but usually with ambitions and schemes; suffers mildly or severely at first from loneliness, the exactions of fag-masters, the discipline of masters, and the regimentation of games; then makes a few friends and leads for a year or so a joyful, irresponsible and sometimes rebellious life; eventually learns duty, self-reliance, responsibility, and loyalty as a prefect, qualities usually used to put down bullying or overemphasis on athletic prowess; and finally leaves school, with regret, for the wider world, stamped with the seal of the institution which he has left and devoted to its welfare.
This is, more or less, exactly what happens to Harry, who enters Hogwarts simultaneously overjoyed to escape the Dursleys and terrified that he’ll be the worst in his class and have to wrestle a troll to find out what house he’s in. He makes friends for the first time in his life, and overcomes Draco Malfoy’s needling and Snape’s bullying to become popular with the rest of his classmates. He becomes a sports star. And he uses his newfound popularity and wisdom to help Neville Longbottom learn to stand up to bullies. It’s all very Tom Brown with magic wands.
The familiar tropes of the public school story genre — first there shall be school chums, then there shall be sports — are part of what makes Harry Potter’s magic feel so real and lived-in. The spell casting and spectacle are folded into this very mundane, bourgeois system whose every beat is instantly recognizable. It’s the same trick that more recent fantasy books like The Magicians use to ground their magic in something ordinary and everyday — it’s just that Harry Potter’s British boarding school story is more old-fashioned and mannered than The Magicians’ American college story.
And The Sorcerer’s Stone’s public school story tropes are its most compelling elements. Voldemort is just a vague outline of a cartoon villain at this point — his pureblood obsession isn’t even mentioned — and it’s hard to care too much about whether his evil plan gets foiled. But boy howdy do I care whether Harry wins the House Cup. I care about his blossoming friendship with Ron and Hermione. And I care about sneering, preening Draco Malfoy, the book’s true antagonist, whose rivalry with Harry is really what gives Sorcerer’s Stone its tension and forward drive.
In the later Harry Potter books, as Voldemort and his agenda grow more developed, Quidditch matches and House points will come to seem petty. But in this first volume, they’re the most important things in the world.
One of the greatest gifts of growing up with Harry Potter is that the books really did grow up with me. They got darker and harsher, with more ambiguity, as I got older and more equipped to handle those ideas. By the time Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows came out, and Harry and his friends left school for the first time to head out into the dangers of the world, I was in college, preparing to leave school myself.
But to this day, opening Sorcerer’s Stone sends me rocketing back to my 9-year-old self, to the time when my whole world was composed of school and my parents’ house. The book reminds me of what it felt like to enter this enormous, expansive, enchanting world for the first time, a world of wonder and whimsy where everything that really mattered happened within the walls of your school.
That feeling is peculiar to the books that imprint themselves on you at a very young age, and what’s astonishing about Harry Potter is that it was able to be that kind of book for so many people all at once. That’s what makes it magic.
On April 24, 1967, Viking Press published a new novel by a 17-year-old girl. S.E. Hinton’s The Outsiders, about teen class warfare, would go on to become a massive bestseller; it would also help to create the publishing category of young adult fiction as we know it today, with its breathless, intimate immediacy.
On June 26, 1997, in the UK, Bloomsbury published a new novel by a young single mother. J.K. Rowling’s Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone kicked off the adventures of a boy wizard and his best friends as they fight the forces of darkness; it and the six Harry Potter books that followed would go on to become an international phenomenon, and they would help make children’s literature one of the biggest money-makers in publishing.
This year, we’re celebrating the 50th anniversary of the book that helped to invent YA as we know it, and the 20th anniversary of the book that helped to make YA an unstoppable force. But where The Outsiders made YA profitable by creating a world exclusively for and about teenagers, Harry Potter made YA even more profitable by creating a world in which YA is for everyone.
Here’s how they did it.
The Outsiders is a very, very adolescent book. S.E. Hinton was 14 when she started writing it and 17 when she finished, and it shows: The entire story reads, endearingly, like a 14-year-old trying to be deep. It’s about the endless, mythic war between the Greasers (the poor kids) and the Socs (the preppy rich kids). The whole thing is told from the point of view of a tragic, noble Greaser named Ponyboy, who loves quoting poetry and watching sunsets almost as much as he loves describing how beautiful his friends’ eyes are in great detail.
Related
But initially, The Outsiders was marketed to adults, and it flopped. “The Outsiders died on the vine being sold as a drugstore paperback,” Hinton recalled in 2014. It wasn’t until a few years later, when publishers saw that the vast majority of the book’s sales were coming from school libraries, that the book found its true market: teenagers.
Other books for teenagers existed at the time, but they tended toward the light and the didactic. Hinton describes them dismissively: “Mary Jane wants to go to the prom with the football hero and ends up with the boy next door and has a good time anyway.” But The Outsiders was about social warfare. It had drugs and alcohol and gang rumbles. And it was told in intimate, confessional first-person that made Ponyboy feel as though he were there in the reader’s head, whispering all his secrets.
In 2017, The Outsiders might feel affected and a little precious, but in 1967, it felt shockingly authentic: a novel by a real teenager, about the things real teenagers care about. After its publishers marketed it to real teenagers, it became one of the bestselling YA novels of all time.
Teenage readers primed by The Outsiders wanted to read voices that sounded like their own; they wanted to read about problems that felt authentic and gritty. To fill the demand, a new kind of book emerged, characterized by a conversational first-person voice and a determination to face the problems of adolescence head-on. Some of The Outsiders’ immediate successors are classics in their own right (1975’s Forever …) and some are embarrassingly dated (1971’s Go Ask Alice), but all of them helped establish expectations for the YA tradition that continues today with books like The Hate U Give.
The Outsiders helped give birth to contemporary YA as a publishing category. Thirty years later, Harry Potter would emerge, and everything would change once again.
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s/Philosopher’s Stone is not a YA novel. It’s middle-grade, meaning it’s for children between the ages of 8 and 12.
Part of this distinction comes from Harry’s age — he’s 11 for most of that first book —and part of it comes from the book’s themes; it’s concerned with childhood and safety and coziness rather than adolescence and independence. But a lot of it lies in the book’s voice.
Like many middle-grade novels, the earlier Harry Potter books are written with a little more distance in their voice than most YA fiction: You get the sense of a wise and benevolent adult narrator telling a child reader about another child, not of one teenager talking directly to another. That would change later on — book five, Order of the Phoenix, which fairly wallows in Harry’s angst-ridden interiority, very much has a YA voice — but at the beginning, Harry Potter was traveling in the same circles as the Narnia series or Roald Dahl’s Matilda.
Related
To the general public, however, that distinction hardly mattered. All that the general public knew was that Harry Potter was a book for children, and that adults were devouring it, at first with their children, and then on their own. The books offered a fully realized magical world that any reader, child or adult, could enjoy visiting. For adult readers in particular, Harry Potter was like candy: compulsively consumable, and nostalgically reminiscent of childhood. And it was concerned enough with deeper questions — morality, mortality, depression, fascism — that an adult reader could read it without feeling too dumb.
As Harry Potter became an unexpected crossover success, middle-grade and YA novels became conflated in the cultural conversation. A voracious appetite arose for books aimed at children that adults would enjoy too, and that appetite quickly shorthanded itself into “books for teens.” So to most people, YA came to mean books for kids that aren’t picture books. The fun ones. You know, YA.
And so, on the back of the Harry Potter craze, came a new YA boom. “When I started,” one bookseller told the Globe and Mail in 2011, “Kids was a relatively small percentage of the business and the teen category within that was my second-smallest category. Today it's the second-largest category in the store. Fiction is one and teen is two."
Bookstores expanded their YA sections; publishers began investing more money in their YA and children’s lists. Blogs like Forever Young Adult popped up to help adults follow YA literature. Film studios leapt on the movie rights to YA properties that might become the next Harry Potter, and so came Twilight and The Hunger Games and Divergent and A Fault in Our Stars.
In the late ‘60s and early ‘70s, the YA market that The Outsiders helped to create built its brand as something fully distinct from the adult market. The Outsiders flopped when Viking tried to sell it to grown-ups, but it sold like hotcakes when teens got their hands on it, because teens understood The Outsiders and The Outsiders understood teens. Part of what made the YA of the era profitable was that it was Not Adult: It was explicitly and ontologically not for the grownups, but for the teens.
Harry Potter reversed all that. It was a global sensation that everyone had to read, even adults, and it created a marketplace in which YA was profitable in part because adults were willing to read it, too. Contemporary YA is a launching point for major franchises because, in a post- Harry Potter world, it is taken for granted that YA is universal.
It took 30 years to get from The Outsiders to Harry Potter, and today marks Harry Potter’s 20th anniversary. So it’s possible we’re only 10 years away from the next seminal YA/middle-grade property that changes the way an entire industry thinks and operates. It might collapse the YA/middle-grade distinction completely, or it might finally allow New Adult — which literally targets “new” adults, from ages 18 to 30 — to take off as a category in the way it has mostly failed to do.
Whatever it is, it’s likely to change the industry in utterly unexpected and unlooked-for ways, and I’m looking forward to reading it. Aren’t you?
When Showtime president David Nevins described the network’s Twin Peaks miniseries as the “pure heroin” version of David Lynch, I suspect this eighth episode is very much what he had in mind.
It’s got cinematic antecedents — the “creation of BOB” sequence reminded me of the lengthy creation of the universe sequence from The Tree of Life, and there are shades of 2001: A Space Odyssey in there as well. But for the most part, “Part 8” is more or less Lynch in his purest form, where he’s teasing out the boundaries between experimental film and nightmares, where he uses images as basic and seemingly inconsequential as billowing clouds to create a sense of all-encompassing dread.
Did I mention it’s mostly in black and white and features what amounts to an overture from “The” Nine Inch Nails (as the band is both introduced and listed in the credits)?
The thing that’s so frequently lost in discussions of Lynch’s work is that it’s too often written off as weird for the sake of being weird. Especially when it comes to Lynch’s imitators (or those who rip him off), there can be a sense of things just being strange, because that’s what David Lynch does, right?
But there’s always a sense of something purposeful to Lynch’s oddities. Even if you can’t figure out what he’s going for, or find the connective tissue between his ideas, you can always tell that connective tissue exists. Truth be told, I don’t know how he does it, but an episode like “Part 8” might be a good place to start. Nothing in this hour should fit together — yet everything does. Let’s try to figure out why.
I guess if I were to assign a grand, motivating idea to “Part 8,” it would be “how does evil come to exist in the world?” Sure, the episode is dealing with some very specific kinds of evil — like BOB seeming to arrive in the fury surrounding the explosion of the first nuclear weapon — but it also plays like a treatise on how the more humans trade in personal connection for the kind of faux-connection that technology promises to give us, the more we allow something dark to seep in around the cracks.
The episode begins in the show’s present, as Evil Cooper and Ray are traveling deep into the heart of the American nowhere. (Let me restate that there are few shows out there that capture, as successfully as Twin Peaks does, how gigantic and unsettling of a country America can feel like in the middle of the night, out beyond the city lights.) Ray gets the drop on Evil Cooper and seemingly kills him, only for strange ghosts to emerge from the wild and dance around him like the characters trying to grow a tree in My Neighbor Totoro. (This is literally just the best description I can think of; it plays out as really menacing in the moment.)
The second sequence involves the performance by Nine Inch Nails, always a band you want to have on hand when you’re exploring the nature of all-consuming evil. (I will probably say nothing more about this sequence — it’s a good song and all, but it mostly serves as a scene-setter.)
The third sequence is the episode’s most seemingly plotless and most purely surreal, as the explosion of the first nuclear weapon in 1945 unleashes all manner of horrible things both here on Earth and in the strange cosmic realm that contains the Black Lodge and all of its inhabitants. “Part 8” suggests that those horrible things were just waiting for something like the arrival of BOB to happen, so they could do something for once — or maybe figures like BOB have arrived many times, and this is why we have the other realm. (The many jittery figures outside the convenience store — an important location in Peaks lore — suggest this interpretation.)
Finally, the episode wraps up with a jaunt to the 1950s, where a small town in New Mexico becomes the staging ground for a warped reinvention of the angel Gabriel telling Mary she was going to give birth to Jesus. (More on this connection in a moment.) It’s simultaneously the easiest and hardest part of the episode to explain. Describing what’s happening onscreen is pretty easy — now the frog-bug thing is crawling in the girl’s mouth; now the weird ghost man is crushing the lady’s skull; etc. — but explaining why is far more challenging. That distance between “what” and “why” is the basis of so much great horror and so much great Lynch.
The throughline between these different segments is pretty much nonexistent — the ghost man pops up as one of the figures dancing around Evil Cooper in segment one (I think?), and New Mexico is the setting for both sections three and four (if we can say that section three — which mostly takes place in what amounts to the universe’s HTML code — has a “setting”). But that’s about it. Those looking for a simple “and then!” plot summary might leave mystified.
Except I didn’t find myself all that baffled, even as I understood that what I was watching was very, very strange. Twin Peaks has always been about the thin veneer of civilization we place over the more elemental forces that tug us between the twin poles of good and evil. And in its universe, evil has become almost like a virus, leaping from host to host, working its will in the world, leaving behind husks. Viewed through that lens, “Part 8” is just three literalizations of that idea and a Nine Inch Nails song.
Do I know what, exactly, happens to the teenage girl who swallows (in her sleep!) the strange frog-bug hybrid that crawled toward her through the desert, after she wakes up in the morning?
No. But as I watched that scene, I had constant thoughts of Gabriel visiting Mary. Except in this case, Gabriel is a strange, smoke-blasted man (whom I believe we saw earlier in the season as a ghost inside the South Dakota jail) who takes over the local radio station and blasts his weird message to an entire little town. Everybody who’s listening passes out, would that the frog-bug — God in this metaphor, I guess — might slide into the girl’s mouth and do whatever it is the frog-bug plans to do.
The concept of inception, of impregnating the world with some ancient evil that needed to find a way to sneak past our defenses, comes up again and again in “Part 8.” Sometimes, it’s even quite literal, as the face of BOB rides into reality on the coattails of nuclear armageddon’s birth. (The sequence is even scored by classical composer Krzysztof Penderecki’s “Threnody for the Victims of Hiroshima,” a none-too-subtle reminder that, hey, thousands upon thousands of people dying thanks to the detonation of a nuclear weapon isn’t a purely theoretical notion, as it was at that first nuclear test.)
Notably, this episode of Twin Peaks spends essentially no time in Twin Peaks (and whether it spends any time there at all depends on how you define the city limits of “Twin Peaks”). But that’s because the series has always suggested the simple pleasures of small-town life as an impotent antidote to the cosmic evils that lurk inside each and every single one of us. BOB is both a malevolent force unto himself and something that could take hold of any one of us at any moment.
I’ve long wondered just how Twin Peaks was going to get around the fact that Frank Silva, the actor who played BOB, died well before production on this season began. The answer has been one part pure sequel to the original show — of course Kyle MacLachlan (whose character ended the original show possessed by BOB) would be his main avatar on Earth. But it’s also been one part suggestion that BOB is everywhere and nowhere, that tapping into his primordial horrors is easier than we might like to admit.
This is why “Part 8” is, in its own, warped way, the perfect mirror image of “Part 7”’s more conventionally plotted hour full of revelations. Twin Peaks can provide answers. It can explain what’s going on, or why a character did something, or what happened to our beloved Audrey Horne. It can even tell us who Diane is and have her played by Laura Dern.
But it can never give us the answers we want, because the answers we want are buried deeper still, in a place where we can’t get to them and wouldn’t dare trying to look. You can’t explain why evil exists in the world — you can only suggest its virality, the way that it spreads from one person to another, a dark religious code of its own, blood acting as its prophet.
You can’t explain evil. Evil is. But you can try to evoke it in the audience, and that’s what “Part 8” does so masterfully. It’s at once thrilling and terrifying, and it’s unlike any episode of television I’ve ever seen.
I think I might go watch it again.
There are two types of people in this world: People who know that the Babadook — the namesake of the acclaimed 2014 Australian horror film — is a queer icon, and people who will soon find out that the Babadook is a queer icon.
Pop-culture LGBTQ heroes come in all shapes and sizes, but those who join the pantheon of legends are often revolutionary, sometimes tragic figures who inspire the community regardless of their professed sexual orientation.
Judy Garland’s death is apocryphally cited as inspiration for the Stonewall Riots. Bea Arthur and Elizabeth Taylor were allies to the LGBTQ community, as talented as they were selfless. David Bowie and George Michael showed us how to live free before they died. Cher and Dolly Parton endured struggle and hardship, but have never stopped working. Madonna, Kylie Minogue, Lady Gaga, Britney Spears, Beyoncé, and Carly Rae Jepsen make music that brings joy to their fans.
Like the icons who came before him, the Babadook’s story is one of hardship, endurance, and queer protest — though that might not be immediately apparent. But while its anointment as an icon might be less straightforward, the Babadook’s status as an LGBTQ hero is ultimately no less valid.
Mister Babadook, as the figure is referred to in the movie, is queer in the most empirical sense. Its existence is defiance, and it seeks to break down the borders of acceptability and establishment.
“Haunting a small white family in an Australian suburb is a radical act, and the Babadook did that,” John Paul Brammer, a journalist and queer Babadook enthusiast, told me. “While I must make it clear that I was not the first to acknowledge the Babadook's burgeoning status as a queer icon, I do count myself among the most vocal supporters of the movement to recognize the Babadook as a radical representation of queerness.”
The Babadook’s rise to queer legend is a remarkable one. It’s appreciation of a horror movie that turned into whisper of a joke that is now a well-established meme. (Several times throughout the day, my spirit yearns to Photoshop the Babadook, jaunty top hat and all, with its finger claws wrapped around a brick, into old pictures of the Stonewall Riots.) But it’s also a fascinating reminder how everything you think is strange and funny on the internet is probably the invention of a bored teenager — and could be co-opted and destroyed at any moment.
But while the Babadook might be a queer hero for the ages, and its ascension as an LGBTQ icon has been almost a year in the making, the fleeting nature of internet-born and bred phenomena suggests that we should appreciate its queer legacy while we still can.
In writer-director Jennifer Kent’s movie, the Babadook manifests itself in a baba-book called Mister Babadook. It’s unclear how the book got there, but Amelia, a widow and the movie’s protagonist, reads it to her son Sam anyway. As she reads the book, she realizes that it’s actually terrifying, but it’s too late — she’s conjured up the menacing supernatural figure known as Babadook.
(Spoilers ahead for anyone who hasn’t seen The Babadook.)
Amelia tries to get rid of the book by tearing it up and incinerating it, but the book and the Babadook keep coming back, each time threatening to kill Sam. In the end, the Babadook possesses Amelia and tries to make her kill Sam, but Amelia and Sam ultimately figure out a way to confront and sort of tame the Babadook. The Babadook posts up in Amelia and Sam’s basement, where Amelia feeds it every day.
Critical interpretations of The Babadook theorize that the Babadook is actually a symbol of Amelia’s grief. While Sam watches her, Amelia goes through stages like denial, anger, bargaining, and depression in battling the Babadook, before finally coming to acceptance of the idea that the Babadook, like grief, will never truly go away.
But that interpretation doesn’t at all explain why the Babadook is queer.
One of the earliest, most popular queer readings of The Babadook surfaced in October 2016, when Tumblr user Ianstagram posted a thought complaint: “Whenever someone says the Babadook isn’t openly gay it’s like?? Did you even watch the movie???” He added on December 13, “Carol (2015), unlike The Babadook, was not a gay movie and was about a scary monster bothering a blonde, stressed-out mom.” To date, the post has received over 91,000 likes and reblogs.
A couple of months later, BuzzFeed’s Ryan Broderick posted a somewhat mocking appraisal of Tumblr’s “Babadiscourse” on Twitter. But Ianstagram defended his reading: “A movie about a gay man who just wants to live his life in a small Australian suburb?” he wrote. “It may be ‘just a movie’ to you, but to the LGBT community, the Babadook is a symbol of our journey.”
my new favorite Tumblr meme is insisting that The Babadook is gay pic.twitter.com/Id1PJpkkgX
“I mean he created a pop-up book of himself for the drama of it all,” another user wrote, coming to his defense.
As Elspeth Reeve explains in a brilliant piece about Tumblr teens, sites like Tumblr offer a chance for users to express thoughts and jokes, but also allow others to tweak, reblog, improve upon those posts. The internet, and sites like Tumblr especially, Reeve continues, encourage users to be funnier, more clever, more biting, more invested:
Sometimes those one-liners spread across continents, tweaked by thousands of other teens who add their own jokes as they reblog the original. The very best tweaks spread further, reblogged again and again, reappearing periodically in the feed, disconnected from time. Some posts get more than a million notes—imagine a joke whispered in biology class getting a laugh from a city the size of San Francisco.
Ianstagram’s Tumblr post and the replies it inspired are a fascinating cultural relic: It’s fantastic trolling, a post written to get an earnest reaction from people who truly believe in discussing the merits of The Babadook within an entertaining and slightly absurd new context. And it’s not really a surprise that the idea of a queer Babadook was first broached on Tumblr — one of the platforms where the internet is made — and then memed into existence, perhaps even earnest existence.
To truly exist on the internet is to be memed, which is perhaps the best explanation for the Babadook’s queer legacy. After the Babadook’s outing was discovered on Tumblr, people began meme-ing the character’s homosexuality and queerness into reality.
In December of 2016, a few months after Ianstagram’s queer Babadook discovery, an Instagram user posted a picture of a Netflix menu that featured The Babadook in its LGBT movies section — though there’s a solid chance this is simply an amazing Photoshop. (We’ve reached out to Netflix to see if this ever truly happened, but haven’t heard back yet).
Brammer professed his admiration for queer Babadook in February (around the same time Broderick noticed the meme taking shape):
good morning the Babadook is openly gay
But the meme really started breaking out this spring. On May 9, Instagram user Mikey Pop posted this spoof of RuPaul’s Drag Race featuring the Babadook (which spawned a few imitation jokes, and which Mic later picked up in a roundup post):
This is how stupid I am
A post shared by Mikey Pop (@djmikeypop) on May 9, 2017 at 3:10pm PDT
And with the beginning of Pride Month, queer Babadook appreciation hit a fever pitch. This tweet, sent into the wild on June 3, has amassed over 28,000 retweets and 65,000 favorites:
happy pride month from queer icon the babadook pic.twitter.com/f2JxwQbRDd
A few days later, my colleague Carlos Maza tried to analyze the deeper meaning of the Babadook, illustrating the meme’s evolution from a trollish observation on Tumblr to a semi-legitimate queer interpretation of the character:
BABADOOK: I'm a terrifying monster that destroys families that try to suppress me.GAY PEOPLE: Oh my god, SAME. Drinks later?
The Babadook’s burgeoning queer legacy isn’t difficult to understand if you know the way the internet functions: Something funny — often created by teens — surfaces on sites like Tumblr or Reddit and 4chan weeks, months, and sometimes years before finding its way to Instagram or Twitter; eventually it finds its way to Facebook and whichever platform your parents use, and by extension into the larger cultural consciousness. (A caveat: At any moment, a popular YouTube celebrity or Instagram “humor” account will probably steal it and ride it until death.)
A prominent example of this internet food chain at work is the practically extinct word “derp.” Derp hit its peak in 2013, when journalists seemed to think they’d discovered a new hip word, culminating in a convoluted post about how “derp” was actually an expression of “Bayesian probability”  and a way to say "the constant, repetitive reiteration of strong priors." But as anyone who spent time on the internet’s various meme-oriented forums and platforms would tell you, the term was circulating on sites like 4chan and Reddit years before as a way to make fun of disability without actually using the words.
The process isn’t always linear or one-way, either. For instance, Harambe, the gorilla that was shot and killed in 2016 after a child fell into his enclosure at the Cincinnati zoo, began with real-life earnest outrage, and eventually ended up as the immortal “dicks out for Harambe” meme.
Related
“Harambe became a referendum on and a satire of social media outrage culture, his name a stand-in for everything wrong with the way social media reacts to news,” Select All’s Brian Feldman explained.
The Babadook’s queer legacy and our infatuation with it borrows on all these ideas: the desire to go with and improve upon the joke, the increasing earnestness around that joke, and the resulting amplification of the absurdity of a homosexual Babadook living a life of queer defiance by terrorizing a white, Australian family.
But although it’s couched in absurdity, the idea of a queer Babadook is also perhaps a way to satirize bigger, real-life ongoing conversations and cultural preoccupations.
Brammer, who admires the Babadook’s radically queer act of terrorizing a white family  and living rent-free in their basement for eternity, tweeted out this observation about the Babadook and representation in April:
openly gay and with an affinity for hats and drama, the Babadook was the first time I saw myself represented in a film
Brammer made clear to me his earnest love for the Babadook, but it’s worth noting that his musing about representation came a few weeks after the release of Ghost in the Shell, a movie that became a flashpoint and sparked national cultural conversation about representation after it featured Scarlett Johansson playing a traditionally Japanese character. Representation is one of the biggest cultural conversations happening right now, and inserting the Babadook into such a conversation simultaneously undercuts the tone of that conversation and highlights the necessity for it.
The Babadook’s queerness could be both a satirical take on cinema’s ongoing failure of representation and a sardonic response to the media and social media’s “hot take” economy. Further, it could also function as an acerbic joke about the nature of “gay icons,” and how quickly and arbitrarily some gay icons (see: Nick Jonas) are anointed.
As I type this, the Babadook’s queer legacy is already dying. As a homosexual connected to the LGBTQ matrix, I can feel its life force waning. Like a lot of things out in this online world, queer Babadook is a click or two away from being loved by millions. For the Babadook, this tipping point came at the hands of YouTube celebrity Tyler Oakley, who declared to his 5.76 million followers that he is totally the gay Babadook:
me this month pic.twitter.com/9X3RJAGLli
In explaining Harambe’s lasting appeal, Feldman mentions how its existence depends on “corporate accounts” not being able to appropriate the meme; its edginess becomes its survival. “In other words, it’s a meme that will never be co-opted by internet-literate corporate Twitter accounts or deployed by some hapless news anchor hoping for a viral moment,” Feldman writes.
Oakley’s Twitter account has more followers than Wendy’s, Target, and Nordstrom combined, making his tweet a possible death knell for the Tumblr-born phenomenon’s countercultural moment. And true to form, some fair-weather Babadook fans are already declaring the Babadook over.
we've hit the point in the Babadook meme when it's being turned into content, AKA the point where a meme dies
Less than a year after his creation, queer Babadook’s future as a cultural phenomenon is already in question; it might not be able to withstand its viral moment, and become a victim of its own success. Though, if there’s anything that the queer Babadook has shown us, it’s that it’s always possible to persevere through adversity — even if it means living in the basement for a while.
There are two types of people in this world: People who know that the Babadook — the namesake of the acclaimed 2014 Australian horror film — is a queer icon, and people who will soon find out that the Babadook is a queer icon.
Pop-culture LGBTQ heroes come in all shapes and sizes, but those who join the pantheon of legends are often revolutionary, sometimes tragic figures who inspire the community regardless of their professed sexual orientation.
Judy Garland’s death is apocryphally cited as inspiration for the Stonewall Riots. Bea Arthur and Elizabeth Taylor were allies to the LGBTQ community, as talented as they were selfless. David Bowie and George Michael showed us how to live free before they died. Cher and Dolly Parton endured struggle and hardship, but have never stopped working. Madonna, Kylie Minogue, Lady Gaga, Britney Spears, Beyoncé, and Carly Rae Jepsen make music that brings joy to their fans.
Like the icons who came before him, the Babadook’s story is one of hardship, endurance, and queer protest — though that might not be immediately apparent. But while its anointment as an icon might be less straightforward, the Babadook’s status as an LGBTQ hero is ultimately no less valid.
Mister Babadook, as the figure is referred to in the movie, is queer in the most empirical sense. Its existence is defiance, and it seeks to break down the borders of acceptability and establishment.
“Haunting a small white family in an Australian suburb is a radical act, and the Babadook did that,” John Paul Brammer, a journalist and queer Babadook enthusiast, told me. “While I must make it clear that I was not the first to acknowledge the Babadook's burgeoning status as a queer icon, I do count myself among the most vocal supporters of the movement to recognize the Babadook as a radical representation of queerness.”
The Babadook’s rise to queer legend is a remarkable one. It’s appreciation of a horror movie that turned into whisper of a joke that is now a well-established meme. (Several times throughout the day, my spirit yearns to Photoshop the Babadook, jaunty top hat and all, with its finger claws wrapped around a brick, into old pictures of the Stonewall Riots.) But it’s also a fascinating reminder how everything you think is strange and funny on the internet is probably the invention of a bored teenager — and could be co-opted and destroyed at any moment.
But while the Babadook might be a queer hero for the ages, and its ascension as an LGBTQ icon has been almost a year in the making, the fleeting nature of internet-born and bred phenomena suggests that we should appreciate its queer legacy while we still can.
In writer-director Jennifer Kent’s movie, the Babadook manifests itself in a baba-book called Mister Babadook. It’s unclear how the book got there, but Amelia, a widow and the movie’s protagonist, reads it to her son Sam anyway. As she reads the book, she realizes that it’s actually terrifying, but it’s too late — she’s conjured up the menacing supernatural figure known as Babadook.
(Spoilers ahead for anyone who hasn’t seen The Babadook.)
Amelia tries to get rid of the book by tearing it up and incinerating it, but the book and the Babadook keep coming back, each time threatening to kill Sam. In the end, the Babadook possesses Amelia and tries to make her kill Sam, but Amelia and Sam ultimately figure out a way to confront and sort of tame the Babadook. The Babadook posts up in Amelia and Sam’s basement, where Amelia feeds it every day.
Critical interpretations of The Babadook theorize that the Babadook is actually a symbol of Amelia’s grief. While Sam watches her, Amelia goes through stages like denial, anger, bargaining, and depression in battling the Babadook, before finally coming to acceptance of the idea that the Babadook, like grief, will never truly go away.
But that interpretation doesn’t at all explain why the Babadook is queer.
One of the earliest, most popular queer readings of The Babadook surfaced in October 2016, when Tumblr user Ianstagram posted a thought complaint: “Whenever someone says the Babadook isn’t openly gay it’s like?? Did you even watch the movie???” He added on December 13, “Carol (2015), unlike The Babadook, was not a gay movie and was about a scary monster bothering a blonde, stressed-out mom.” To date, the post has received over 91,000 likes and reblogs.
A couple of months later, BuzzFeed’s Ryan Broderick posted a somewhat mocking appraisal of Tumblr’s “Babadiscourse” on Twitter. But Ianstagram defended his reading: “A movie about a gay man who just wants to live his life in a small Australian suburb?” he wrote. “It may be ‘just a movie’ to you, but to the LGBT community, the Babadook is a symbol of our journey.”
my new favorite Tumblr meme is insisting that The Babadook is gay pic.twitter.com/Id1PJpkkgX
“I mean he created a pop-up book of himself for the drama of it all,” another user wrote, coming to his defense.
As Elspeth Reeve explains in a brilliant piece about Tumblr teens, sites like Tumblr offer a chance for users to express thoughts and jokes, but also allow others to tweak, reblog, improve upon those posts. The internet, and sites like Tumblr especially, Reeve continues, encourage users to be funnier, more clever, more biting, more invested:
Sometimes those one-liners spread across continents, tweaked by thousands of other teens who add their own jokes as they reblog the original. The very best tweaks spread further, reblogged again and again, reappearing periodically in the feed, disconnected from time. Some posts get more than a million notes—imagine a joke whispered in biology class getting a laugh from a city the size of San Francisco.
Ianstagram’s Tumblr post and the replies it inspired are a fascinating cultural relic: It’s fantastic trolling, a post written to get an earnest reaction from people who truly believe in discussing the merits of The Babadook within an entertaining and slightly absurd new context. And it’s not really a surprise that the idea of a queer Babadook was first broached on Tumblr — one of the platforms where the internet is made — and then memed into existence, perhaps even earnest existence.
To truly exist on the internet is to be memed, which is perhaps the best explanation for the Babadook’s queer legacy. After the Babadook’s outing was discovered on Tumblr, people began meme-ing the character’s homosexuality and queerness into reality.
In December of 2016, a few months after Ianstagram’s queer Babadook discovery, an Instagram user posted a picture of a Netflix menu that featured The Babadook in its LGBT movies section — though there’s a solid chance this is simply an amazing Photoshop. (We’ve reached out to Netflix to see if this ever truly happened, but haven’t heard back yet).
Brammer professed his admiration for queer Babadook in February (around the same time Broderick noticed the meme taking shape):
good morning the Babadook is openly gay
But the meme really started breaking out this spring. On May 9, Instagram user Mikey Pop posted this spoof of RuPaul’s Drag Race featuring the Babadook (which spawned a few imitation jokes, and which Mic later picked up in a roundup post):
This is how stupid I am
A post shared by Mikey Pop (@djmikeypop) on May 9, 2017 at 3:10pm PDT
And with the beginning of Pride Month, queer Babadook appreciation hit a fever pitch. This tweet, sent into the wild on June 3, has amassed over 28,000 retweets and 65,000 favorites:
happy pride month from queer icon the babadook pic.twitter.com/f2JxwQbRDd
A few days later, my colleague Carlos Maza tried to analyze the deeper meaning of the Babadook, illustrating the meme’s evolution from a trollish observation on Tumblr to a semi-legitimate queer interpretation of the character:
BABADOOK: I'm a terrifying monster that destroys families that try to suppress me.GAY PEOPLE: Oh my god, SAME. Drinks later?
The Babadook’s burgeoning queer legacy isn’t difficult to understand if you know the way the internet functions: Something funny — often created by teens — surfaces on sites like Tumblr or Reddit and 4chan weeks, months, and sometimes years before finding its way to Instagram or Twitter; eventually it finds its way to Facebook and whichever platform your parents use, and by extension into the larger cultural consciousness. (A caveat: At any moment, a popular YouTube celebrity or Instagram “humor” account will probably steal it and ride it until death.)
A prominent example of this internet food chain at work is the practically extinct word “derp.” Derp hit its peak in 2013, when journalists seemed to think they’d discovered a new hip word, culminating in a convoluted post about how “derp” was actually an expression of “Bayesian probability”  and a way to say "the constant, repetitive reiteration of strong priors." But as anyone who spent time on the internet’s various meme-oriented forums and platforms would tell you, the term was circulating on sites like 4chan and Reddit years before as a way to make fun of disability without actually using the words.
The process isn’t always linear or one-way, either. For instance, Harambe, the gorilla that was shot and killed in 2016 after a child fell into his enclosure at the Cincinnati zoo, began with real-life earnest outrage, and eventually ended up as the immortal “dicks out for Harambe” meme.
Related
“Harambe became a referendum on and a satire of social media outrage culture, his name a stand-in for everything wrong with the way social media reacts to news,” Select All’s Brian Feldman explained.
The Babadook’s queer legacy and our infatuation with it borrows on all these ideas: the desire to go with and improve upon the joke, the increasing earnestness around that joke, and the resulting amplification of the absurdity of a homosexual Babadook living a life of queer defiance by terrorizing a white, Australian family.
But although it’s couched in absurdity, the idea of a queer Babadook is also perhaps a way to satirize bigger, real-life ongoing conversations and cultural preoccupations.
Brammer, who admires the Babadook’s radically queer act of terrorizing a white family  and living rent-free in their basement for eternity, tweeted out this observation about the Babadook and representation in April:
openly gay and with an affinity for hats and drama, the Babadook was the first time I saw myself represented in a film
Brammer made clear to me his earnest love for the Babadook, but it’s worth noting that his musing about representation came a few weeks after the release of Ghost in the Shell, a movie that became a flashpoint and sparked national cultural conversation about representation after it featured Scarlett Johansson playing a traditionally Japanese character. Representation is one of the biggest cultural conversations happening right now, and inserting the Babadook into such a conversation simultaneously undercuts the tone of that conversation and highlights the necessity for it.
The Babadook’s queerness could be both a satirical take on cinema’s ongoing failure of representation and a sardonic response to the media and social media’s “hot take” economy. Further, it could also function as an acerbic joke about the nature of “gay icons,” and how quickly and arbitrarily some gay icons (see: Nick Jonas) are anointed.
As I type this, the Babadook’s queer legacy is already dying. As a homosexual connected to the LGBTQ matrix, I can feel its life force waning. Like a lot of things out in this online world, queer Babadook is a click or two away from being loved by millions. For the Babadook, this tipping point came at the hands of YouTube celebrity Tyler Oakley, who declared to his 5.76 million followers that he is totally the gay Babadook:
me this month pic.twitter.com/9X3RJAGLli
In explaining Harambe’s lasting appeal, Feldman mentions how its existence depends on “corporate accounts” not being able to appropriate the meme; its edginess becomes its survival. “In other words, it’s a meme that will never be co-opted by internet-literate corporate Twitter accounts or deployed by some hapless news anchor hoping for a viral moment,” Feldman writes.
Oakley’s Twitter account has more followers than Wendy’s, Target, and Nordstrom combined, making his tweet a possible death knell for the Tumblr-born phenomenon’s countercultural moment. And true to form, some fair-weather Babadook fans are already declaring the Babadook over.
we've hit the point in the Babadook meme when it's being turned into content, AKA the point where a meme dies
Less than a year after his creation, queer Babadook’s future as a cultural phenomenon is already in question; it might not be able to withstand its viral moment, and become a victim of its own success. Though, if there’s anything that the queer Babadook has shown us, it’s that it’s always possible to persevere through adversity — even if it means living in the basement for a while.
Every Sunday, we pick a new episode of the week. It could be good. It could be bad. It will always be interesting. You can read the archives here. The episode of the week for June 18 through 24 is The Daily Show’s “June 21, 2017.”
Trevor Noah seemed almost lost for words as he worked through his feelings this week on the Philando Castile verdict. The Daily Show host, who has to crack jokes about awful news four days a week, found himself equally horrified and heartbroken in the face of this particular incident — but somehow he ended up delivering, through his stark grief, some of the most profound moments of his tenure on the Daily Show.
On June 19, he took more time than usual during his “Ain’t Nobody Got Time For That” news roundup segment to acknowledge his flabbergasted disappointment that police officer Jeronimo Yanez was cleared of manslaughter in the death of Castile. “Every time I watch that video, the question I ask myself is, ‘How?’ Just … how?” Noah said as his audience fell silent. “How does a black person not get shot in America? Because if you think about it, the bar is always moving. The goalposts are always shifting. There’s always a different thing that explains why a person got shot. … At some point, you realize there’s no real answer.”
On June 20, he paused between taping segments to talk frankly with his studio audience about how many times he’s been stopped by the police in the few years he’s lived in the United States, grimly joking that this fact always “blows white people’s minds.”
But it was on June 21 that Noah allowed himself to feel and express real despair — and not just about how the Castile case has unfolded, but about the state of American racism and the insidious role it plays in the justice system. The resulting monologue wasn’t typical of The Daily Show’s usual sputtering outrage, but it was undeniably powerful.
“Honestly, I thought that I felt all I could feel about this story, until I got home and I watched a newly released video,” Noah said, referring to the dash-cam footage released earlier this week, which had been submitted to the jury that eventually acquitted the cop in question. “I won’t lie to you … it broke me,” he continued. “It just — it broke me.”
After talking about the case all week, this was the moment in which Noah let the weight of the entire case fall on his own shoulders, and made it his mission to impart to his audience why, exactly, it was hitting him so hard.
Part of the irony of this verdict, Noah explained, is that it comes after years of people saying that the solution to unwarranted police shootings is to require police to wear body cameras, to eliminate any doubt about what had happened. “Black people have already taken that initiative, all right?” Noah said. “Thanks to cellphones, every black person has a body cam now.” But for Castile, neither a dash cam nor a cellphone mattered in the end.
Even worse, Noah went on, is that the jury of Castile’s fellow citizens did see this footage, and concluded that Officer Yanez had reason to claim self-defense. “Forget race,” Noah said, eyebrows raised in disbelief. “Are we all watching the same video? The video where a law-abiding man followed an officer’s instructions to the letter of the law and was killed regardless? People watched that video, and then voted to acquit?”
And even though Noah himself began the segment by marveling that he had anything left to say about this situation, he managed to find a new level of disappointment within himself when faced with Diamond Reynolds’s Facebook Live footage of the shooting’s aftermath, noting that Castile’s loved ones still had to have the presence of mind to be “deferential” to the cop who had just shot him, even continuing to call him “sir.”
“In that moment, the cop has panicked, but clearly, black people never forget their training,” Noah said, his voice dry but simmering with anger.
And on one point, Noah was crystal clear: However awful the video is, it’s just as awful that a jury of Castile’s peers watched it and voted to acquit the officer involved, even after seeing him comply with every demand and consciously work to put Yanez at ease:
The jury [in Yanez’s trial] had to make a decision, and that decision is, “Do you think this policeman was justified in thinking that his life was in danger?” And their opinion, having watched that video, having listened to that exchange, they still said, “Yes, yes, I can see why that cop was afraid.”
But why? ... Was it because Philando Castile was being polite? Was it because he was following the officer’s instructions? Was it because he was in the car with his family? Or was it because Philando Castile was black?
Having made his case, Noah then cut to commercial, his studio quiet as a whisper.
On paper, this might look in line with the kind of disbelieving “can you believe this shit?” vibe The Daily Show has weaponized since Jon Stewart took his place behind the desk. But in Noah’s hands, this monologue was less emphatically outraged than somber, steady in its conviction that he was explaining not just the news, but a clear and absolute injustice.
In an episode that otherwise featured a straightforward interview with musician Jason Isbell and a truly trippy interlude featuring cartoon cheetahs and DJ Khaled, this monologue stood out as unusually bruising. Noah has certainly gotten serious with his audience before — as he did after Donald Trump won the presidency in November — but this monologue is still a standout.
Not only was it the culmination of three nights of Noah delving into this case, but it was an exhausted, wrenching dissection of why the grief over Castile and black victims like him won’t subside anytime soon. Noah, steadfast but openly heartbroken, was determined to use his platform to make his audience stare this injustice in the face — and in doing so, he found a singularly clear, vital voice.
Full episodes of The Daily Show — including “June 21, 2017” — are currently available to watch on Comedy Central’s website.
Welcome to the weekly Vox book link roundup, a curated selection of the best online writing about books and related topics. Here’s the best the internet has to offer for the week of June 18, 2017.
Peele has found a concrete metaphor for the ultimate unspoken fear: that to be oppressed is not so much to be hated as obscenely loved. Disgust and passion are intertwined. Our antipathies are simultaneously a record of our desires, our sublimated wishes, our deepest envies. The capacity to give birth or to make food from one’s body; perceived intellectual, physical, or sexual superiority; perceived intimacy with the natural world, animals, and plants; perceived self-sufficiency in a faith or in a community. There are few qualities in others that we cannot transform into a form of fear and loathing in ourselves.
A lot of YA books I read have main characters who read like they’re in college already. They rarely rely on family, they smoke, and they go on crazy road trips.
I admit this is a really tricky one for writers to capture, because most teenagers THINK that they’re twenty-somethings. Here’s the trick to teenagers: All of us are trying to be older than we really are. As I’ve mentioned before, teenagers are weird creatures. You feel like you’re too young to do anything of importance, so you try to act older. Because it’s cool. Because it makes you feel like you have things under control.
Charlotte would do well in a home where three square meals are placed in front of her each day. She would also benefit from being reminded to shower and having her phone confiscated at night. She’d make a great companion for anyone seeking a poorly adjusted, emotionally unavailable woman to sit in a chair in the corner and stare at her laptop while mumbling.
"'Beach reads' are generally considered fluff pieces for fluff readers, which is a coded way of saying 'lady books for lady readers,'" said Alexandra Franklin, assistant to literary agent Vicky Bijour, echoing many of the responses I received on social media. Which, she added, is a designation that makes her very uncomfortable. "For some reason when I think 'beach reads' I usually think of 'women's fiction,' but when someone mentions an 'airport book' or 'airplane read' I usually think of mass market 'men's' thrillers, like Tom Clancy."
Though hardly anyone knows it, the first person ever to attach their name to a poetic composition is not a mystery. Enheduanna was born more than 4,200 years ago and became the high priestess of a temple in what we now call southern Iraq. She wrote poems, edited hymnals, and may have taught other women at the temple how to write. Archaeologists discovered her in the 1920s and her works were published in English beginning in the 1960s. Yet, rarely if ever does she appear in history textbooks.
Happy reading!
Prince was a pop culture icon who helped define the ’80s. Now, 33 years after the debut of Oscar- and Grammy-winning Purple Rain, the artist’s most dedicated fans have the chance to experience the seminal album in a new way.
On Friday, NPG and Warner Bros. Records released highly anticipated “deluxe” and “deluxe expanded” editions of Purple Rain, featuring a mix of previously unreleased tracks and other special features.
Related
Both editions were mastered by Bernie Grundman, the engineer behind the original album, and include its 2015 Paisley Park Remaster (which was overseen by Prince himself). Hits like “When Doves Cry,” “Darling Nikki,” and “Purple Rain” have an almost surround sound–like quality, as modern engineering sands away the grit and distortion of time.
Both editions also include 11 rare or previously unheard tracks. Some of these tracks have floated around for years as unauthorized recordings or alternate versions distributed among Prince superfans, but this is the first time they’ve been officially released. Notable examples include: “Electric Intercourse,” a ballad that, according to Variety, was bumped from the original Purple Rain album and replaced by “The Beautiful Ones”; a different version of “We Can Fuck” than the one that appeared on Prince’s 1990 album Graffiti Bridge, featuring alternate lyrics; and the haunting, full version of “Father’s Song.” “Father’s Song,” an instrumental, was co-written by Prince and his father, and a portion of it was featured in the Purple Rain film.
On top of all of the above, the deluxe expanded edition of Purple Rain features 15 additional singles and B-sides, including a dance mix of “Let's Go Crazy” and an extended version of “Erotic City.” It also boasts a long-unavailable concert film — Prince and the Revolution Live! — which was filmed in Syracuse, New York, in 1985, during Prince’s Purple Rain Tour.
Prince’s history of creative license and freedom of self, particularly during live shows, is on full display on the deluxe expanded edition, particularly in the extended version of “I Would Die 4 You” and footage of his 1985 show.
And while not all of the newly released tracks benefit from the enhanced sharpness or clarity of the 2015 remasters, they still offer fans a new way to appreciate one of music’s most visceral artists.
The internet mostly didn’t devolve into a political firestorm this week, which makes it a fairly good week as far as 2017 has gone.
Of course, if you were employed at Mattel, maker of Barbie, you might feel differently, since internet denizens expended a great deal of energy skewering your newly rolled-out lineup of modern, ethnically diverse Ken dolls. And if you were Jeff Bezos, well, the internet really didn’t hop on board with Amazon’s Whole Foods acquisition.
But in general, we turned to memes that mocked our childhoods and distracted us from more serious topics. Not that there wasn’t plenty of serious discussion being had, too — just ask Tumblr users who found themselves suddenly unable to access “sensitive” content across the site.
Here’s what you may have missed on the internet this week.
Caity Weaver’s viral piece for GQ on the rollout of Mattel’s new Ken doll in all his ambiguously multicultural glory explored what modern masculinity looks like in the reimagined plastic form of the original “nice guy.” The internet took Weaver’s query a lot further, turning the dolls — in particular, the doll popularly rebranded as “Man Bun Ken” — into fictional representations of Those Douchebags We All Know.
Every one of the new Ken Dolls is a different bartender who has ignored me
Man-bun Ken doll just interrupted me to tell me that Bernie would have won. pic.twitter.com/Mnu8pAXV7F
Man Bun Ken in particular came to immediately represent, at least in meme land, one of those fabled Bernie Bro, nice-guy, startup-owning pseudo-socialists — you know, the stealth misogynist who’s secretly into gentrification and privatizing health are.
pic.twitter.com/ZwHWi8XtAs
"The pay gap is actually a myth." pic.twitter.com/g4daXlYust
I'm the founder/creative director for a startup co-owned by father & I pay my employees in experience, foosball, and kombucha on tap pic.twitter.com/v5gXHl0WIQ
Man-bun Ken thinks having a mother makes him a feminist pic.twitter.com/mW5tOavC6G
Does man bun Ken doll also come with a Soul Cycle membership, vintage record player, and $50,000 in student loan debt? pic.twitter.com/ulEwGSxxb1
"this ken doll looks like this douche i met last weekend" is my favorite new meme
Man Bun Ken wasn’t the only Ken used as fodder for social commentary — particularly racial commentary.
"Black women don't like me because I'm different. I love anime, comics, and playing D&D. Black women don't appreciate me." pic.twitter.com/Zph5y3tK3E
I'm screaming fr pic.twitter.com/R9Oa4REoRy
Welcome to the internet, new Kens. If you’re anything like your stereotypes, then you’re already one of us.
why...why are all the new Ken dolls youtubers pic.twitter.com/x7DDeJf9bN
The unexpected news that Ron Howard is taking over the Star Wars Han Solo spinoff film from newly departed directors Phil Lord and Chris Miller caused a lot of eyebrow raising in Hollywood, and a torrent of Arrested Development jokes from Twitter users.
Phil Lord and Chris Miller: It's so nice how we're in charge of our own Star Wars movie.[Ron Howard voice]: They weren't https://t.co/22059PoFaO
For anyone not in on the joke, Howard was the narrator for Arrested Development, and his form of short, acerbic, often contradictory voiceovers became the basis for a standard brand of modern internet humor, which involves inserting “Ron Howard voice” before one’s own wry commentary.
In the wake of the Star Wars announcement, the joke value doubled.
Me: "It's true. All of it."Ron Howard Narrator: "It wasn't." pic.twitter.com/54VxTzgIlp
Han Solo: "I made the Kessel Run in less than twelve parsecs."Ron Howard voiceover: "He didn't."
Han Solo: I can transport the cargo, no problem!Ron Howard (voice over): He had a bad feeling about this. pic.twitter.com/vuQC4NExtz
You, dumb, regular voice: I bet the narrator joke genre isn't too played out for my Star Wars tweet.Me, smart, Ron Howard voice: It was.
Gang, it's a new day, so let's do what we always do: absolutely CRUSH IT with the 7 available  Twitter joke structures.
Twitter had a field day with this running thread between comedian Paul F. Tompkins and his followers, as they proceeded to outline some of Twitter’s most popular running joke formats, in classic thread format:
There was the “Life comes at you fast” format, which (for anyone not on Twitter) consists of taking two apparently contradictory Tweets from a user’s feed and screencapping them side by side with the caption, “Life comes at you fast.” Like so:
Life comes at you fast pic.twitter.com/svQF99qZG3
There were the requisite ASCI tweets, and the requisite clapping emoji plus “I’m not crying you’re crying” tweet, and innumerable meme-based tweets.
pic.twitter.com/VHZah7jMEK
Roses are redTweets lead to tedium pic.twitter.com/dIKOwsTHXT
Read the entire thread for maximum profit. What can we say? They’re good jokes, Brent.
That’s Yoshizuki Jun, the Japanese half of YouTube’s vlogging couple Rachel and Jun. Jun and Rachel have their own popular channel where they vlog jointly about Japanese culture and the ins and outs of a cross-cultural romance. On his own channel, Jun posts mainly about cooking and kitchenware. His last knife-sharpening video got 4.5 million views in six months; the one above got as many views in two days and trended across YouTube for most of the week.
The video’s viewers seemed to respond eagerly to the video’s narrative as a “revenge” story: After being ripped off by a guy who sold him a completely rusted knife for $3, Jun gets back his dollar value and more by carefully polishing and buffing the knife to incredible new glory — then proceeds to carve up a bunch of vegetables with his new tool to beautiful results.
This video combines several ingredients that tend to spell success on YouTube: the Zen beauty and soothing repetitive motions of Jun’s knife polishing, along with his clear competence and skill in the kitchen. It’s also a simple tale of karmic justice, which always does well on the internet. And, of course, there’s a cat.
This meme has been gaining traction for a while but really seemed to gain peak attention over the past two weeks. You’re probably familiar with the age-old classic living room/student lounge game “the floor is lava,” where the object is to avoid touching the (hot, molten) floor at all costs, necessitating climbing hilariously over furniture and anything else within reach.
Lately on the internet, largely as a response to current sociopolitical turbulence, “the floor is lava” has been remixed into the “floor is...” meme, where the “floor” is anything you’re trying to avoid at all costs. In its purest version, it looks something like this.
The floor is 8 full hours of sleep pic.twitter.com/bTsTQ3ty9A
As Miles Klee outlines at Mic, the original “floor is” image, as seen above, grew out of another popular meme about staying awake all night. Since the image crossed over to join the “floor is lava” concept, it’s has morphed rapidly both visually and narratively to be about avoiding [insert x here].
the floor is admitting lebron and mj are both legendary players who changed the game for the better in their own individual way pic.twitter.com/byTTknblTF
If you’re Twitter the company, as we detailed in last week’s internet culture roundup, you’re trying to avoid, well, the edit button that everyone apparently wants but you:
The Floor is the edit button@Twitter pic.twitter.com/Kr4u9tV9MM
If you’re celebrating Pride month, the floor might be heteronormativity.
the floor is heterosexuality pic.twitter.com/nlYKIsrYOp
This meme generally works well when used literally or sardonically — with results varying depending on context:
the floor is anxiety and self-doubt pic.twitter.com/GrPXplYm2X
The floor is sobriety pic.twitter.com/djmJL83Q2Z
Whatever your floor is, there’s probably a perfect accompanying image waiting for you:
the floor is european beauty standards pic.twitter.com/ka035cU9Wc
It’s the game anyone can play.
While some portions of the internet are updating parlor games and looking to childhood toys for inspiration, other parts are streets ahead. The trend of claiming to be living in 3017 is simple enough, and the Black-Eyed Peas claimed to be “so 3008” nearly a decade ago, but whatever, it’s been catching on.
Y'all living in 2017 meanwhile im in 3017. Catch up. pic.twitter.com/k9uOgQUoZJ
In last week’s roundup we wondered what changes the new Verizon acquisition of Yahoo might bring to Tumblr, the internet’s perpetually undervalued cultural factory. Apparently the changes have been immediate and striking. Within the past week, in addition to numerous layoffs, Tumblr has made a series of noticeable changes that have sent ripples of unease throughout the community.
Foremost among them to outside observers is the issue of net neutrality. Tumblr as a corporation has historically been an avid proponent of equal internet access and has previously urged its users to support net neutrality legislation. However, Verizon, its new owner, has steadfastly opposed the Federal Communications Commission’s net neutrality legislation. The result, as The Verge recently reported, is that Tumblr appears to have gone silent on the issue entirely, and that it will not be participating, as it has in the past, in an upcoming day of action on the issue.
Tumblr users who have blogged about the news are overwhelmingly cynical about Verizon and supportive of net neutrality. But there are other changes on the horizon for Tumblr — including what The Verge reports is new Tumblr chief Simon Khalaf’s wish to use Tumblr as a “weapon” to convert users to Yahoo and beat out competitors:
Two former Tumblr employees said they were alarmed when Khalaf chose Black Lives Matter as an example of a community that the company should focus on converting into Yahoo media consumers. One told The Verge, “Simon explicitly said that Black Lives Matter was an opportunity to [make] a ton of money.”
This statement is fundamentally contradictory to Tumblr’s deeply progressive, diverse, and largely anti-capitalist community, let alone to the Black Lives Matter movement. In essence, the very people Khalaf wants to reach through these alleged means of commodification are the people most likely to be extremely alienated by them. Instead of driving more users to Yahoo, such a focus could drive users away from Tumblr.
Another change that immediately alarmed users: the sudden appearance of “safe mode,” a new default, mandatory filter for all users under 18 that blocks content deemed NSFW. In essence, users who are categorized by Tumblr as under 18, based on their stated age when they signed up for the site, can now no longer access large portions of the site.
Me ever since tumblr decided safe mode was actually a good idea pic.twitter.com/2WDY874goY
The filter crucially excludes large swaths of content that isn’t technically work-safe but features queer and LBGTQ-related content and other “sensitive” content. Tumblr is a major platform for queer teens and other members of the queer community exploring and expressing their sexuality and identities, and — as we saw when YouTube temporarily implemented and then rescinded similar filtering — few members of the LGBTQ community like to see their identities reduced to a NSFW tag.
just a reminder that tumblr is now censoring gay content in a so called "safe mode"if you are under 18, you have NO WAY to turn this off. pic.twitter.com/EDtj09GVuY
Apparently tumblr has just set up a safe mode that also blocks LGBT content from minors regardless if sfw or not. Uh this might be the end?
The results of this new safe mode have outraged Tumblr users and sometimes been contradictory.
thanks tumblr. you blocked your own fucking post about safe mode because it was "sensitive content" pic.twitter.com/X2J3qYFFLf
It certainly wouldn’t be the first time a company has left large internet communities in the lurch — just ask the exiles of LiveJournal, most of whom relocated to Tumblr after a steady site devolution following LJ’s buyout by a Russian company in 2007. The decade-long process finally seemed to hit rock bottom earlier this year when LiveJournal unveiled strict terms of service mandating its users obey Russian laws regarding adult content, which also censored queer content.
Perhaps the takeaway here is twofold: Our internet communities are only as free as the platforms that host them, and producing queer content seems to be an increasingly complicated aim in an increasingly corporatized internet. With Verizon now at the reins, one of the most queer-friendly online spaces has entered a fraught new era.
Update, June 29: Tumblr detailed its response to the backlash in a staff post dated June 23, noting that it had already changed the automated behavior that was causing all posts with queer or LGBTQ-related content to be marked sensitive. The change, which automatically flagged all posts made on self-marked "Explicit" blogs as sensitive, was not intended to deliberately target queer users, and to prevent that from happening, all posts on blogs labeled explicit will now be classified individually. This pattern of auto-filtering and retraction, specifically in order to avoid demonizing queer content, is something YouTube just recently went through, and in fact, so did Tumblr — in 2013, when Tumblr did the exact same thing to queer content in an earlier version of Safe Mode, which it also had to fix.
The staff post did not address the controversial issue of permanently filtering ‘sensitive’ content away from younger Tumblr users by default—at least until they turn 18 according to the age stated in their accounts. Given that Tumblr worked on Safe Mode for over a year, this is a feature it likely won’t be changing any time soon. Still, Tumblr users lambasted the change; they also heavily criticized Safe Mode for being incomplete and doing nothing to curb the presence of porn bots or white supremacist and Nazi blogs on the site.
Over the past few days, Johnny Depp has found himself in the news for two different reasons — one that’s being treated as a potentially career-ending mistake, and another that’s been greeted with a nearly universal shrug.
On Thursday at the Glastonbury arts festival, Depp jokingly suggested assassinating President Trump. “When was the last time an actor assassinated a president?” he asked, adding, “I want to clarify: I’m not an actor. I lie for a living. However, it’s been a while, and maybe it’s time,” in what seemed to be an allusion to John Wilkes Booth, the actor who assassinated Abraham Lincoln. The statement drew immediate and widespread outrage, with many calling for a general Hollywood boycott and many major news outlets reporting on the controversy. The White House issued a statement condemning the joke, and Depp made a public apology.
Earlier this week, Depp’s managers filed court documents alleging that they witnessed Depp being violent toward his ex-wife Amber Heard, and that they can confirm the statements Heard made to the police and in court were correct. (Heard and Depp settled their divorce suit out of court, with Heard dropping all charges.) The story was picked up by a few gossip outlets and small news sites, but it was largely ignored until after news of Depp’s assassination joke broke and it became rhetorically useful to be able to refer to Depp as a “drunk” and a “wifebeater.”
Related
Depp seems to have weathered the domestic violence charges while taking minimal damage to his career — he’s still the face of the Pirates of the Caribbean franchise, and he still has a major role in the Harry Potter spinoff franchise Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them — but the Trump assassination joke may have finally crossed a line. Almost everyone, regardless of political affiliation, agrees it is in poor taste and completely unacceptable. That was not the universal opinion when Amber Heard accused Depp of hurting her; fans and gossip tabloids roundly accused her of being a lying gold digger, and studio executives shrugged and put Depp in major franchises anyway.
The reaction to Depp’s controversies mirrors a larger problem: As a culture, we have a tendency to treat domestic violence as violence that “doesn’t count,” certainly not the way politically motivated violence does. Domestic violence is nothing to ruin a man’s life over, the idea seems to be, but even a joke about political violence? Well, that’s serious business.
But studies have shown that the gunmen who commit mass shootings are likely to have a history of domestic violence — and if we as a culture took domestic violence seriously, we might have much better luck in stopping political violence before it ever happened.
None of this is to suggest that we should take Depp’s joke about assassinating President Trump to be a genuine threat. There is no real reason to think that Johnny Depp is actually planning to leave acting behind to become an assassin, and it would be absurd to treat his terrible joke as the expression of a concrete plan.
But there are multiple credible allegations explicitly stating that he beat his wife.
Our attitude toward Depp’s two crimes — a documented history of abuse that’s met with a shrug on one side, and a tasteless joke about assassination met with mass outrage on the other — mimics our larger cultural attitude toward domestic violence. We generally don’t consider violence against women to be a big deal until it leads to political violence. And ironically, that attitude means we don’t notice when perpetrators of domestic violence are ready to move into the sphere of political violence.
It’s time to recognize that violence against women is violence, full stop, and to take it just as seriously as we take bad jokes about political violence.
As Amanda Taub has pointed out in the New York Times in her article on the correlations between domestic violence and terrorism, about nine times more people die from domestic violence every year in the United States than have died from terrorism in the US over the past decade. Domestic violence is so overwhelmingly common, in fact, that it is rarely considered major news: Man-hurts-woman is generally treated as a dog-bites-man kind of story.
But domestic violence can be an early warning sign for terrorism. The gun control group Everytown for Gun Safety studied all of the mass shootings that took place in the US between 2009 and 2015, and found that 57 percent of the shootings were directed at or involved members of the perpetrator’s family.
Many of the perpetrators of the most high-profile mass shootings of recent years have had domestic violence in their pasts. James T. Hodgkinson, the gunman who shot Republican Congress members at a baseball park last week, was arrested for domestic violence in 2006. Omar Mateen, the gunman behind last year’s Pulse nightclub shooting, had been accused of beating his wife. Robert Lewis Dear, who attacked a Planned Parenthood in 2015, was accused of physical abuse by two of his three ex-wives and of sexual violence by another woman. But these men only came to be considered major threats to society once they had committed politically motivated mass violence.
Related
Taub argues that there’s an emotional link between political terrorism and domestic violence, which some experts call “intimate terrorism”: Both stem from a desire to impose one’s control over the world by force, and a profound need to perform hypermasculinity through violence. She writes:
Intimate terrorism … rests on a broader spectrum of violence meant to preserve the traditional dominance of heterosexual men, and coerce those who are perceived as threatening that order. That spectrum, at the extreme end, includes mass shootings.
Domestic violence, she concludes, can act as a “psychological training ground” for large-scale violence.
If as a culture we truly valued women’s lives and well-being, we would take domestic violence seriously. We would understand that violence against women is real violence, and that a person who is capable of enacting violence against women is also capable of being violent toward other people.
Update: This piece has been updated to acknowledge the White House’s statement regarding Depp’s joke, and Depp’s public apology.
Suppose, for reasons that now seem irrelevant, that you were tossed into a dystopian wasteland beyond the reach of US law. You’re in the desert, surrounded by cracked and parched ground, with little shelter from the sun, and all you’ve got to your name is a baseball hat and a sandwich.
But, feeling unrepentant and maybe even a little relieved to be out from under the auspices of the law, you find shade in a broken-down car and contemplate your next move. In the distance, you hear a rumbling. In the rearview mirror, you see a golf cart hurtling toward you.
Uh-oh.
Rating
That’s the first few minutes of The Bad Batch, a stylish, nightmarish love story with strong Mad Max overtones that come close to compensating for its rather tepid plot. As was the case with writer-director Ana Lily Amirpour’s debut feature, A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night, The Bad Batch is a showcase for Amirpour’s fearless aesthetic choices and willingness to startle her audience. She’s a punk filmmaker, mixing horror with romance and sprinkling it with a healthy touch of female desire.
Yet dystopian stories usually aim to tell us something about ourselves today. And if The Bad Batch, which is basically a semi-convincing love story, is trying for that, it fails. Style overtakes substance, and the movie ends with a little too much of a shrug for having started out with so much imagination.
Set somewhere in the near future, The Bad Batch drops its protagonist — (Suki Waterhouse), whose name we eventually discover is Arlen — into the arid desert and sets some hungry cannibals on her trail. The tribe is led by a character named Miami Man (Jason Momoa, sporting massive pecs and a ludicrous Cuban accent); once they catch up with Arlen, they drug her and hack off a couple of limbs. From there, the world of the film builds, and we quickly realize this is no country for the young or the weak. Everyone out in this desert is part of the “bad batch,” a catchall term for anyone not deemed good enough for polite society.
The Bad Batch doesn’t waste much time explaining itself, but we can fill in the blanks based on the characters we meet as we follow Arlen through the desert, who range from drug dealers and criminals to immigrants and strung-out wanderers who seem to have lost their minds. In the future, people relegated to the literal fringes of society are simply those who — whether by choice or compulsion — refuse to behave. It’s like Dante’s Inferno: None of the Bad Batch are sorry they’re there.
That’s an interesting concept, if not a particularly original one: The desert is ostensibly a prison colony filled with unrepentant sinners who would rather be left to their own devices than forced to live by others’ whims. Whether such a life is sustainable is a question; it seems that, at least in the world of The Bad Batch, people still ache to follow someone strong. Even those who fancy themselves rebels want a leader.
Arlen is scrappy, and she eventually escapes the cannibals’ clutches, making her way first on her own and then with the help of a scummy, toothless drifter (Jim Carrey) to a town called Comfort. It’s a community of Bad Batchers, surrounded by fences and shipping crates, who live in relative, well, comfort, in a makeshift hamlet that recalls an inverted version of The Leftovers’ Jarden, Texas.
You can get noodles for a dollar in Comfort and live in a house, and hang out in a skate park. Or you can live in a tent by the fence and yell a lot, like the Screamer (Giovanni Ribisi). In Comfort, nobody will really bother you. But the name of the town still seems more like a cruel joke than an earnest promise.
Comfort is benevolently ruled by a man known as the Dream (a mustachioed Keanu Reeves), who gives its residents hallucinatory drugs and says things like, “To Enter the Dream, You Must Let the Dream Enter You” (it’s impossible to imagine him uttering such a phrase in any other way than in sentence caps). It’s no surprise that he’s guarded by a horde of pregnant, nubile young women. He throws parties deejayed by Jimmy (Diego Luna) and illuminated by neon lights against the desert sky.
Out beyond the reaches of the town, where the cannibals live by scrounging for food and cobbling together a life from scraps left in junkyards, Miami Man searches for his young daughter, who’s gone missing. When Arlen, high on the Dream’s substances, wanders out into the desert, she meets him there again. And this time, something sparks between them.
The first half of The Bad Batch is remarkably strong filmmaking, largely because Amirpour lets loose her imagination and tells the story just how she wants. There’s next to no dialogue for almost half the film; life is so brutish and nasty in the wasteland that most of the people who exist there are beyond language.
Occasionally, songs from Ace of Base, Culture Club, and White Lies pop up — but the most prominent aural input is just cranked-up sound design that amplifies the feeling of dirty horror, whether via the squeak of the hinges in a prosthetic limb, the fwing of a machete brought down on prey, or the sound of clothing tearing as a body is dragged across the dirt.
Amirpour’s eye for grotesquerie is perfect. Who else would think to stick a crow on top of a sign that says “Seek Comfort,” erected in the cracked desert ground, while a girl missing half her limbs lies on her back, scooting slowly along her way a skateboard in the relentless sunshine? Amirpour likes to keep shallow focus in her still frame, with one person at the center, drawing focus, while something shadowy and blurry approaches in the distance. Every shot is arresting, a carefully thought-out aid to building a world that still keeps some of its secrets hidden, tantalizing the audience and leaving us wanting more.
But though both Momoa and Waterhouse are fun to watch — stripped largely of words, they’re mostly acting with their marvelously expressive faces — their conversations feel somehow both under- and overwritten. Reeves, too, uses most of his limited screen time to deliver monologues that seem pinched and obvious. In fact, almost anytime someone says anything, it’s frustrating; the only good lines of dialogue come from one of the cannibals, Maria (Yolonda Ross), and her young daughter Honey (Jayda Fink).
By the end of The Bad Batch, I found myself wondering if it would be more effective to have just eliminated the talking entirely. Amirpour’s monochrome, feminist Iranian vampire tale A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night was even more silent, and it worked because the director is so good at training her camera on the finely tuned performances she elicits from her cast. Would a silent dystopia, with its heightened sounds and visceral squirms, have made for a more haunting effect?
As it is, The Bad Batch seems not quite able to get a grasp on the reason for its existence. Too bad. There’s so much to work with here, out beyond the reaches of both society and the usual rules of filmmaking.
The Bad Batch releases in theaters on June 23.
Between movies, books, music, comics, podcasts, and the ever-growing glut of TV, there’s a ton of pop culture out there.
It can be a lot to keep up with. So we here at Vox Culture — where our current obsessions include Lorde’s new album, one of the best romantic comedies in years, and a new comic about a man who fights bears while shirtless — have a few suggestions for how to make the best use of your pop culture–consuming time.
Here are some items you should really consider adding to your pop culture diet.
According to Lorde herself, her long-awaited second album, Melodrama, traces the trajectory of a single night of partying, with all its exhilarating peaks and self-loathing valleys. The result is gorgeous, dark, and twisty (see: “Sober II [Melodrama]”), and simultaneously sweeping and intimate (see: “The Louvre”). Listening to the entire album all the way through — which I highly recommend — feels like spying on Lorde’s most gnarled thoughts, the kind you may have also experienced but never knew quite how to express. Every day I have a new favorite, but recently listening to “Supercut” while walking home after midnight in the summer fog was just about perfect. Put on this album when you’re feeling a little vulnerable, a lot sentimental, and definitely ready to indulge your more wicked impulses. —Caroline Framke
Last week, the New Zealand website NewsHub scored a major coup in the celebrity gossip world: It unearthed compelling evidence that pop star Lorde was running a secret Instagram account in which she photographs and rates onion rings.
“Oh, god, it’s me, it’s me, it’s me,” Lorde admitted to Jimmy Fallon. She “naively” didn’t think it would be “a thing,” she says, but look: It’s such a charmingly low-stakes secret that of course it would be a thing. It’s a pop star essentially creating a secret identity — pulling a Hannah Montana, if you will — for the sole purpose of rating second-tier fast food on a five-star system. It’s absurdly endearing.
Lorde has since deactivated the account, but she passed along some of her onion ring knowledge to Fallon. “A batter works better than a crumb,” she said authoritatively — it’s lighter — and to make your onion rings “magical,” you should consider lightly pickling the onions. “It takes on this acidity, and it’s incredible,” she concluded.
Just saying, I would watch a Lorde-hosted food show any day. —Constance Grady
The Big Sick, a new romantic comedy based on the real-life courtship of comedian Kumail Nanjiani and writer Emily V. Gordon (the couple co-wrote the film together), does that thing you want romantic comedies to do: It makes you sincerely hope that everybody in it finds some way to be happy by the end.
Related
Nanjiani stars as a version of himself, while Zoe Kazan fills in as his love interest, Emily. The two meet cute, fall for each other quickly, then confront the differences in their backgrounds. She’s running from past failures; his traditional Pakistani immigrant parents want him to agree to an arranged marriage. And just as things are falling apart, Emily gets sick, which brings her parents (the wonderful Holly Hunter and Ray Romano) onto the scene. The issues the would-be couple must navigate are complex and meaningful, but the characters and relationships are beautifully drawn, warm, and funny. (Read our full review.) —Todd VanDerWerff
Few things have given me as much pleasure recently as Shirtless Bear Fighter; those things include a fried chicken sandwich, a cheese plate, luckiest loser Alexis Michelle getting roasted on RuPaul’s Drag Race’s season nine reunion episode, and that viral news story about a vegetarian woman from Maine drowning a rabid raccoon with her bare hands. But none of them really top the new comic by writers Jody Leheup and Sebastian Girner, with art from Mike Spicer, Nil Vendrell, and Andrew Robinson. It’s the breezy, ridiculous, entertaining comic that summer needs.
The premise is straightforward: A literal bear uprising is upon us, and only one man — a man who was raised by the uprising bears — can stop them. Fueled by the power of nudity and flapjacks, Shirtless Bear Fighter is the world’s last hope, and his story is one of the most enjoyable comics of the summer. —Alex Abad-Santos
A truly great celebrity profile — one that digs into both who the person is and why we care about them — is a rare thing, but Carvell Wallace’s debut for GQ, “Mahershala Ali Thinks We Can Still Make This Country Great,” is a beautiful example I’ll be thinking about for a while. It gives you a real, empathetic sense of how Ali, a longtime actor who “broke through” last year with his Academy Award–winning performance in Moonlight, navigates both Hollywood and America as a black Muslim man. But don’t take it from me; take it from Ali and Wallace’s own words, carefully chosen and deeply affecting:
“I think African-Americans have a very convoluted relationship with patriotism,” [Ali] says. “The fact is, we essentially were the abused child. We still love the parent, but you can’t overlook the fact that we have a very convoluted relationship with the parent. I absolutely love this country, but like so many people have some real questions and concerns about how things have gone down over the years and where we’re at. And that’s from a place of love, because I want the country to be what it says it is on paper.”
In the background, Anthony Kiedis is singing California, rest in peace over and over. Ali doesn’t seem to notice.
—CF
Every so often, I discover a podcast that makes me want to listen to a dozen episodes as quickly as possible. The latest to achieve this high honor is the New York Times’s Still Processing, hosted by culture writers Jenna Wortham and Wesley Morris. The premise is simple: The two writers (and friends) chat about what’s currently on their minds, identify any topics that overlap and/or interest them both, and talk them out.
But Wortham and Morris’s smart and incisive commentary always manages to surprise, whether they’re discussing Get Out or Katy Perry, Beyoncé or James Baldwin. I especially like listening to them when I don’t quite agree (see: their underwhelmed response to Wonder Woman), or when their conversation takes a turn I didn’t see coming (see: their distaste for the new Baywatch movie evolving into a discussion of the beach’s possible healing properties and its fraught history of segregation). —CF
Sofia Coppola’s spin on the 1971 Clint Eastwood vehicle The Beguiled makes a small change to its source material that makes all the difference. Where the earlier film and the novel it was based on both tell their story from the point of view of the film’s sole major male character, Coppola’s version shifts the perspective to the women who first rehabilitate him, then feel threatened by him. The events of the plot are the same; the eyes we see it through are flipped.
Related
The impact is huge. Colin Farrell’s Civil War Union colonel finds himself with a bullet in his leg, at the mercy of the Southern women stranded at a Virginia girls school, led by Nicole Kidman. (Others living in the building include Kirsten Dunst and Elle Fanning.) The scenario ripples with sex, violence, blood, and the meticulously composed frames Coppola is known for. (Read our full review.) —TV
Any new Zadie Smith essay is an instant must-read, and her latest Harper’s piece, “Getting In and Out,” is certainly no exception. Smith has an uncanny gift for making connections between cultural events and her own experience, whether it’s Facebook or Italian paintings of corpses, and tackling the difficult issues they raise. Here, she draws a dotted line between Jordan Peele’s runaway hit movie Get Out, Dana Schutz’s controversial Whitney Biennial painting Open Casket (which depicted the casket of Emmett Till), and her own questions about being biracial, as well as her children’s experiences. The piece is thought-provoking, posing more questions than answers, and inspired plenty of debate. It’s worth sitting with for a while. —Alissa Wilkinson
Shania Twain, the beloved country-pop crossover artist, is finally back after too much time out of the spotlight, and with a brand new song — “Life’s About to Get Good,” the debut single off her first full-length album in 15 years. Twain rose to fame in the ’90s, and her chart toppers were mostly about love (“You’re Still the One”) and female empowerment.
But she’s been under the radar for a while: In 2010, the singer and her husband, producer, and co-writer of 14 years, Robert John “Mutt” Lange, split (after he fell in love with her best friend). Not long afterward, Twain completely lost her voice, which she says was due to Lyme disease. But now, after working to retrain her vocal cords, the queen of country pop is using the get-up-and-go new track to declare that even though life can be about pain and challenges, it’s finally about to get good. The album, Now, will come out on September 29.
Bonus: We’re not the only ones ready for a Twain comeback. Haim expertly covered Twain’s 1999 hit “Man, I Feel Like A Woman!” at a pop-up show last week, and Twain approved. —Bridgett Henwood
I am not precisely sure when I lost the plot of Transformers: The Last Knight, but I think it was probably around the time that a drunk Merlin — yes, that Merlin, of the Knights of the Round Table — showed up at the ruins of an ancient spaceship and began pleading for help from a giant alien robot.
Merlin is somewhat mysteriously played by Stanley Tucci, who appeared in the franchise’s previous installment — 2014’s Transformers: Age of Extinction — but as a completely different character (the scheming technology executive Joshua Joyce). The wizard engages in a bit of comic monologuing, until the robot hands him a staff, which apparently allows him to control a three-headed robot dragon. The dragon emerges from a cave and swoops over the British hillside — it’s really quite pretty — ultimately joining an ancient battle, already in progress, to help the Knights of the Round Table defeat the Saxon army. There are a lot of fireballs and explosions and punishing subwoofer rumbles that seemed designed to test the strength of your kneecaps.
Related
All of this happens in roughly the first five minutes of the movie, and the rest of the film makes about as much sense as the opening. Later on, there’s a fire-breathing baby dinosaur robot, and a bigger dinobot companion (left over from Age of Extinction) that has to be scolded, like a rogue puppy, for eating auto-junk. Steve Buscemi drops by to trade a few quips; he’s a robot, of course. So does franchise regular John Turturro, wearing silly shorts while watching over sun-bathing Transformers in Cuba, because, well, why not?
There’s also a comic-relief butler robot who assists Anthony Hopkins’s character, who turns out to be the last guardian of the legend of King Arthur. And somewhere in the middle of the film, Hopkins delivers a 15-minute-long monologue in which he reveals that Bumblebee, one of the franchise’s key Transformer characters, was actually a legendary World War II hero. There’s an evil Cybertronian sorceress-bot named Quintessa who can control other robots. Unrelated (I think), there is also a series of mechanical horns that were planted around the Earth before the continents separated. Somehow Stonehenge is involved.
After the opening sequence, I never quite recovered my sense of narrative balance, but I sort of enjoyed myself anyway, in part because I knew what to expect right from the start. The Last Knight doesn’t make any sense, but neither do any of the other Transformers films. The franchise is one giant, explosion-riddled mashup of wacky plot contrivances, dazzling special effects, and merchandising opportunities. It’s nonsense, sure, but it’s meticulously crafted, delightful nonsense that falls perfectly in line with both its roots in a line of robot toys and director Michael Bay’s extravagant sensibilities — and that’s part of its charm.
“Magic does exist. It was found long ago — inside a crashed alien ship,” the disembodied voice of Anthony Hopkins says as Merlin stumbles upon his robot interlocutor, as if that explains anything.
But explanations are not what’s on order in The Last Knight. Indeed, the moments at which the film attempts to explain itself, to provide context or plot cues, are among its most incoherent. For example, Hopkins’s aforementioned extended monologue is supposed to explain the movie’s complex mytho-historical backstory, which dictates that the Knights of the Round Table were real, but also that they all relied on the aid of — you guessed it — giant sword-wielding robots.
What’s more, the whole thing is punctuated by a slew of pseudo-comic distractions and interruptions, including the appearance of an organ playing butler-bot, as if to make sure that viewers can’t possibly focus or concentrate for too long. I got the gist, which is essentially, Actually, the Transformers were a crucial part of the Knights of the Round Table. But I doubt I could explain much more.
With that said, I’m not sure it would make any difference if I could. Like most of the rest of Bay’s cars-and-robots franchise, The Last Knight dips in and out of history and legend, myth and nonsense, cynicism and silliness. It is not just impossible to follow; it comes across as intentionally designed to repel logical thought. It is a machine made to dampen thinking.
Even more than its predecessors, the film is a maelstrom of spectacle and sensation, a special effects–driven free-for-all that has somehow escaped the gravitational pull of traditional storytelling in favor of something more immediate and abstract, a kind of caffeinated nonsense cinema, designed to pleasure even as it pulverizes. At their best— or at least their most brutally effective — the Transformers films induce a form of audiovisual euphoria that seems to cast a spell over viewers, one that renders plot and narrative conventions useless. The Transformers movies speak to something deeper, something primordial, deep inside your mechanized lizard brain, the place where three-headed robot dragons live.
That’s fitting for a franchise that is, after all, based on a children’s cartoon designed primarily to sell a line of toys to preadolescent boys. For better or for worse, Bay has crafted a series of films that replicate the mindset of an 8-year-old kid playing alone in his room, letting his imagination run wild as he goes about inventing the most elaborate adventure he can think of. The films are both deeply focused and easily distracted. They are built around jokey comic relief and mindless violent conflict, as well as simple character relationships in which recognizable adult characteristics or responsibilities are entirely absent.
They possess deep mythological backstories, some of which are interlaced with real-world events, but they rarely make sense when considered for even a moment. They can be obnoxious and creatively scatological — if you’ve ever wished to see a giant robot car “urinate” on John Turturro, Michael Bay has your back — but for the most part, they are rather naive, and even innocent in their outlook on the world.
Bay’s Transformers films do not merely appeal to a childlike sensibility; they capture it, channel it, inhabit it. They are stunningly complex $200 million studio blockbusters that seem to have sprung directly from the sugar-addled fantasies of a particularly inspired child.
The Transformers films have grown more abstract over the years, less tethered to the mechanics of character and causality. And in the process, they have made their director's intentions even more clear.
The first movie, 2007’s Transformers, is the most coherent — and arguably the best — of the bunch. It’s a relatively conventional YA story about a young boy who gets a car that turns into a robot. But in the decade that’s passed since its release, the franchise has only grown stranger and more abstract.
The first sequel, 2009’s Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen, revolves around a MacGuffin called the Matrix of Leadership and a machine that makes suns explode, which requires the matrix to work. It also involves secret cosmological signals being implanted in Shia LaBeouf’s brain, which can only be translated by John Turturro. Actually, that makes it sound more straightforward than it is. But if summarizing the movie’s plot is already difficult, trying to explain it is nigh impossible. Don’t believe me? Read this old FAQ, which attempts to break down what actually happens in the film and why — and ends up making painfully clear how disjointed it is.
The other sequels aren’t any more cogent. The third film in the franchise, 2011’s Transformers: Dark of the Moon, ties the Transformers movies to the moon landing, and includes a scene in which the evil Decepticons plan an attack while casually lounging around the monuments on the National Mall in Washington, DC.
And when giving an interview about the fourth film, Age of Extinction, screenwriter Ehren Kruger described it as “quasi experimental” and said that as a writer, “you start to make your peace with the idea that logical sense doesn’t have to be the be-all, end-all.” That film ends with an absolutely bonkers sequence in which a massive magnet sucks up all the metal vehicles in Hong Kong, and then Optimus Prime brandishes a sword and rides a robot dinosaur:
But the Transformers films’ nutso, erratic storytelling isn’t the result of Bay not knowing what he’s doing. His nonsense narratives and hyperactive editing are consistent stylistic choices. His smaller films — in particular, the smartly satirical criminal-bodybuilders film Pain & Gain­ — tend to be more narratively coherent. And he has been willing to toy with his own image as a filmmaker who puts “awesomeness” — usually in the form of explosions that escalate in both size and scope — above all else.
The careful attention Bay devotes to these trademark elements is apparent in The Last Knight; on several occasions, the film comes across as more than a little self-aware, piling on frenetic explosions and showdowns and special effects extravagance, deflating its own self-importance even as it builds it up. It never quite descends into self-parody, but it winks and nudges you, letting you know it knows exactly what it’s doing, even amidst the chaos.
Related
There's a sense that somehow Bay is in control, that he is orchestrating all of this for your delight, that he genuinely wants to entertain you, and is willing to work to do it. You didn't really decide to see a Transformers movie for the plot, did you? Bay's movies are expensive (but confident) bets that you did not. And they are bets that have consistently paid off. The first four films have earned more than $3.5 billion combined at the global box office.
The Transformers franchise’s whiff of organization among the chaos is also part of the secret to its charm: Michael Bay knows his movies are silly and ludicrous and deliriously nonsensical — and he wants you to know he knows too.
The Beguiled masquerades as a Southern Gothic tale, with all the requisite grotesquerie. But beneath its frilly, corseted bodice, it’s a stone-cold revenge fantasy, laced with a potent cocktail of toxic comedy and pungent desire.
The film’s fixation on revenge means it feels considerably tighter and simpler than its marketing might have led you to believe. This isn’t the wild, extravagant romp of director Sofia Coppola’s Marie Antoinette, nor does it lean so plainly on the hormonal teenage angst of The Virgin Suicides. Simple, irresistible desire is what drives revenge movies — desire for retribution, inexorably enacted. And The Beguiled is set at Miss Martha Farnsworth’s Seminary for Young Ladies, a hotbed of sublimated desire and good breeding. (Following the film’s premiere at the 2017 Cannes Film Festival, Coppola became the second woman in Cannes history to win the Best Director award.)
Rating
In her adaptation of Thomas Cullinan’s Civil War-set 1961 novel — on which a 1971 Don Siegel film, starring Clint Eastwood, was also based — Coppola turns Miss Martha’s Seminary into a secluded, mist-heavy wood between the worlds, populated by women rendered helpless by the Civil War and scarce resources to do anything but pray and wait it out.
In The Beguiled, women are frustrated at being left to flap in the wind like a lacy frock on a clothesline, while the boys go out to fight the real war. But society requires them to remain civilized, embroidering in the drawing room to the sound of booming cannon fire on the battlefield beyond the seminary’s gates. They’re reduced to praying for the soldiers, hiding their cow so nobody steals it, and trying to keep away from the gaze of the men who march by, lest they be tempted.
Years of that kind of thing can make you crazy, or it can be a clarifying force. In The Beguiled, much of the fun (and suspense) comes from trying to guess which is the case.
The sister to The Beguiled in Coppola’s oeuvre is certainly The Virgin Suicides, another film about a house full of young women held captive for their own good (and in which Kirsten Dunst also starred). In that film, the girls are hungry for male interaction, partly because they want to have sex and partly because they’re just desperate for an outlet and an escape from their intense loneliness.
Those elements are in The Beguiled, for sure. But they’re best taken with the historical context in mind, and what the characters are experiencing from their secluded vantage point: the dismay of knowing their social order is disappearing, and the dreariness of living from day to day with nothing to do but keep at the embroidery, practice conjugating French verbs, maybe practice the violin.
The story picks up three years after the secession, when pigtailed Amy (Oona Laurence), gathering mushrooms in the Virginia woods, stumbles upon a wounded Union soldier, Corporal John McBurney (Colin Farrell). She brings him back to the sprawling house that’s home to the seminary and its headmistress, Miss Martha (Nicole Kidman, in one of her four roles at Cannes this year).
Most of the seminary’s students have gone home because of the war, but Edwina Morrow (a subdued Dunst) has stayed on as a teacher, and a cadre of other girls remains, stranded by the dangerous situation in their own hometowns across the war-torn South. The oldest of these girls is Alicia (Elle Fanning), a 19th-century version of Virgin Suicides’ Lux Lisbon (played by Dunst in that film), all flirtation and seduction.
The residents of the seminary first consider turning Cpl. McBurney over to soldiers — either his own or theirs — but appealing to “Christian charity,” they elect instead to bring him inside and tend to his wounded leg. Miss Martha puts him under with chloroform, then cleans the wound and stitches it up. And then, while he’s still out, she strips him down to his knickers and washes him off, pausing to take more than a few deep breaths.
All the women and girls are worried about him in the house, but when he wakes up, relations slowly improve between the affable McBurney and the women, particularly the oldest three: strong-willed, mature Miss Martha, quiet and dutiful Edwina, and precociously tantalizing Alicia, who all but winks at him the moment he sets eyes on her.
But it gradually becomes clear that McBurney (an Irishman fresh off the boat from Dublin who took a man’s place in the army for $300) fancies himself a charmer, and that he’s found himself in a rather ideal situation: surrounded by beautiful women and charming girls of all ages and personalities. And he’d rather not go back to the army anyway.
Naturally, he plays the field. Let’s just say it doesn’t end well.
Coppola again wields her talent for stylizing films to set up our expectations for The Beguiled. The Spanish moss and mist hangs heavily over the trees, as in a twisted fairy tale, the colors are a little washed out, and the edges of the frame are darkened slightly, all signifying a decaying Confederacy and its carefully tended social niceties, which Miss Martha is still trying so desperately to preserve.
But this is a comedy — a dark one, but a comedy nonetheless, in which a candlelit dinner table becomes a minefield of dramatic irony. So lest we take things too seriously, Coppola employs a pink cursive script for the title card, embellished with flourishes and compressed slightly from both ends. It calls to mind a trashy and inconsequential romance novel, which, when punctuated with the film’s moments of violence, wounds, and blood, feels more hilarious than horrifying.
In fact, it’s the mashed up stylistic markers of The Beguiled that make it so effective, especially as they skitter across the revenge plot humming along beneath the surface. As a film, The Beguiled is thrilling, delicious, wicked fun. But there’s also something purely pleasurable — and no less cathartic in the 21st century than it might have been in the 19th — to see a cowardly man with far too much self-regard and far too few scruples get what he deserves.
The Beguiled premiered at the Cannes Film Festival on May 24 (this review was originally published during the festival) and opens in US theaters on June 23.
Calling all campers and/or comedy aficionados: Wet Hot American Summer will officially ride again with an all new eight-episode TV series, 10 Years Later, set to premiere August 4 on Netflix.
The last time the band got together was for 2015’s Wet Hot American Summer: First Day of Camp, a Netflix series in which all the actors from the classic 2001 film played their younger selves, logic be damned (because it’s just not as funny). That series was a prequel of sorts, taking place as everyone kicked off their summer at Camp Firewood.
But the newest series will be more of a sequel: At the end of Wet Hot American Summer, which focuses on the last day of camp, all the Camp Firewood counselors gather on a porch to reminisce about their bonkers summer, and sigh that they should all meet up again in 10 years. Now they’ll actually get to do it, as Netflix has confirmed with this new trailer showing the counselors living their 1991 lives, for better and (mostly) for worse.
At this point, most members of the Wet Hot American Summer cast — which is pretty incredibly stacked with people who were unknowns in 2001 but went on to comedy stardom — have since become much more famous for other work. So seeing them reunite in the 10 Years Later trailer in the context of one of their first movies is still a trip, and a hilarious one at that. From Amy Poehler crashing a party in full-on Madonna cosplay to Christopher Meloni tying on that musty pink bandana (and meeting a kid with a suspiciously similar one) to Paul Rudd playing beautiful slacker Bobby after 10 years of living hard, the cast is back and ready to play.
Also featured in the trailer — and giving hope to anyone who was worried by all of First Day at Camp’s obvious scheduling issues — are Josh Charles, Elizabeth Banks, Janeane Garofalo, Adam Scott, Chris Pine, and Kristen Wiig. (Just about the only person missing, it seems, is A Star Is Born director Bradley Cooper.) There’s even bonus Jai Courtney and Alyssa Milano, not to mention “Michael Showalter as Ronald Reagan” and “Michael Ian Black as George H.W. Bush.” Truly, anything is possible at Camp Firewood.
Wet Hot American Summer: 10 Years Later premieres August 4 on Netflix.
Usually when filmmakers leave a project citing “creative differences,” people assume they mean they couldn’t quit fighting long enough to actually make the film.
But in the case of Phil Lord and Christopher Miller’s exit from the upcoming Han Solo prequel film — a Star Wars spinoff slated for May 2018 release — it’s totally believable.
In a message posted on Tuesday to the official Star Wars site, Lord and Miller wrote, “We normally aren’t fans of the phrase ‘creative differences’ but for once this cliché is true.” Lucasfilm head Kathleen Kennedy added that “it’s become clear that we had different creative visions on this film, and we’ve decided to part ways.” And on Thursday, veteran director Ron Howard was announced as their replacement. A source told Variety that the pair was fired.
Lord and Miller are the rare directing pair beloved by critics, fans, and fellow directors for their work on comedies like The Lego Movie and its sequels, both Jump Street movies, and Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs. (The pair also directed the pilot of the beloved sitcom Brooklyn Nine-Nine and several episodes of The Last Man on Earth.)
It’s hard to precisely describe Lord and Miller’s style, but their work always exhibits a goofy, offbeat sense of humor and, probably most importantly, is self-aware and a little irreverent about its source material, whether it’s the Batman movies (as in Lego Batman) or the old 21 Jump Street TV show. A Lord and Miller movie knows on some level how silly movies can be, and it winks at viewers so they know they’re in on the joke, too.
That style of self-referential humor is well suited to audiences in 2017, but though the Star Wars series also exhibits a goofy sense of humor at times, its ethos is still a bit more sincere. Few details have emerged about the creative differences between the pair and Lucasfilm, though a source told Variety that Kennedy’s ideas about how a film set should run clashed with Lord and Miller’s, who reportedly prefer to work improvisationally. But one can imagine that a more self-referential take on Star Wars that pokes fun at the main series — even if it’s in keeping with the personality of its subject, Han Solo (played by Alden Ehrenreich) — could be unwelcome.
Whatever the reason for the departure, it’s a highly unusual move for directors to be replaced mid-production, particularly if those directors were hired for their specific and quirky vision, as in the case of Lord and Miller. Granted, directors leaving or being replaced on high-profile projects is not exactly unheard of: Michelle McLaren was originally attached to Wonder Woman, and Edgar Wright to Ant-Man, for instance. And while Gareth Edwards was the credited director of the last Star Wars spinoff, 2016’s Rogue One, substantial reworking happened under the supervision of writer Tony Gilroy. Yet directorial changes almost always happen before production begins, or sometimes a few weeks into the shoot, when it becomes clear that something isn’t working.
But this exit is different. The Han Solo prequel isn’t titled yet, but it’s been shooting in London since February, with a source telling the Hollywood Reporter that there are only a few weeks left in the shoot. Reshoots (which are normal, especially in action films) are scheduled for later in the year. Presumably whoever takes over the film following Lord and Miller’s exit will supervise the remaining shoots and reshoots.
It’s hard to say what effect Lord and Miller leaving so late in the game will have on the final film, which has not been moved from its original release date of May 25, 2018. Lord and Miller’s style is so distinctive that it seems unlikely their influence will be totally erased in the final product — and you can be sure that fans of the pair will scrutinize every moment of the film to detect their fingerprints. Some of that can be mitigated in edits and extended reshoots, but scrubbing them out completely is expensive and difficult.
On the other hand, bringing in Howard is an interesting, and possibly telling, move. The director isn’t known for having as distinctive of a style as Lord and Miller, but he turns out lush, earnest, crowd-pleasing dramas — everything from Apollo 13 and A Beautiful Mind to the limp but high-grossing Da Vinci Code series — and while that’s a switch from Lord and Miller’s ironic self-referential style, it may please the older segment of the Star Wars fan base.
Several directors had been floated for the project before Howard was announced. The film’s screenwriter, Lawrence Kasdan (who co-wrote The Empire Strikes Back, Raiders of the Lost Ark, and Return of the Jedi) had also been floated as a possibility — and the Hollywood Reporter suggested that Kasdan was the real reason the pair left — but it’s unclear if the union rules of the Directors Guild of America would have permitted him to take over. Some also suggested Joe Johnston, who directed Jumanji and Captain America: The First Avenger.
What the final product looks like, at this point, depends on how much Lucasfilm and its owner, Disney, is willing to invest in reshoots or extending production. As with almost everything about a movie before it wraps production, anything is possible. But even with the conventional choice of Howard to take over, fans of Lord and Miller — and of the franchise — will probably still be scratching their heads (and speculating on social media) about what really went wrong, and wondering about the goofy, self-aware Han Solo movie that might have been.
Note: this article was updated on June 22 to reflect Ron Howard’s role in the project.
“Honestly, I thought that I felt all I could feel about this story,” Trevor Noah said during Wednesday’s episode of The Daily Show, as he sat solemnly next to a picture of Philando Castile for the third time this week, “until I got home, and I watched a newly released video.”
The host was referring to the police dash-cam footage that was made public for the first time on June 20, a few days after Minnesota police officer Jeronimo Yanez, who shot and killed Castile last July, was found not guilty of second-degree manslaughter.
As Noah warned his audience before playing it, the video — which was shown to jurors during Yanez’s trial — is graphic, and disturbing.
After Officer Yanez politely informs Castile that he’s been pulled over for a broken taillight and asks for Castile’s license and insurance, Castile calmly discloses that he has a firearm (Castile had a permit to carry the gun). Then the situation rapidly devolves. Yanez places his hand on his holster and tells Castile not to reach for the gun; within a few seconds, Yanez is yelling “Don’t pull it out!” as Castile and his girlfriend try to assure Yanez that no one is grabbing for it. Then Yanez fires seven times into the car.
Though Castile’s girlfriend, Diamond Reynolds, had previously streamed the immediate aftermath of the shooting on Facebook live, the moment of the shooting itself was not made available to the public until this week.
“I won’t lie to you, when I watched this video, it broke me,” Noah said. “It just — it broke me.” Noah continued to say that seeing a little girl (Reynolds’s then 4-year-old daughter, who was in the backseat) climb out of the car after Castile was shot broke his heart “into little pieces.”
Part of the irony of this verdict, Noah explained, is that it comes after years of people saying that the solution to unwarranted police shootings is to require police to wear body cameras, to eliminate any doubt about what had happened. “Black people have already taken that initiative, all right?” Noah said. “Thanks to cellphones, every black person has a body cam now” — and for Castile, neither a dashcam nor a cellphone mattered.
Even worse, Noah went on with palpable horror, is that the jury of Castile’s fellow citizens did see this footage, and concluded that Officer Yanez had reason to claim self-defense. “Forget race,” Noah said. “Are we all watching the same video? The video where a law-abiding man followed an officer’s instructions to the letter of the law and was killed regardless? People watched that video, and then voted to acquit?”
And as Noah pointed out, the jury also saw Reynolds’s Facebook Live video, in which she sits next to Castile’s body and still manages to call the officer “sir” as she agrees to remain still.
“It’s fucking mindblowing ... that she has the presence of mind to be deferential to the policeman,” Noah said. “In that moment, the cop has panicked, but clearly, black people never forget their training.”
He continued:
The jury [in Yanez’s trial] had to make a decision and that decision is, ‘Do you think this policeman was justified in thinking that his life was in danger?’ And their opinion, having watched that video, having listened to that exchange, they still said ‘Yes, yes, I can see why that cop was afraid.’
But why? ... Was it because Philando Castile was being polite? Was it because he was following the officer’s instructions? Was it because he was in the car with his family? Or was it because Philando Castile was black?
The segment, which you can watch in its entirety above, was part of Noah’s usually raucous opening monologue. His audience, which had been primed to laugh at Trump jokes not two minutes earlier, fell completely silent as Noah worked through his feelings, becoming more visibly frustrated and despairing with every word and offering no punchlines to alleviate the tension of this moment that so horrified him.
In other words, the clip is not your typical Daily Show fare — but it’s one of show’s most powerful moments in ages.
Late in the seventh episode of Fargo’s third season, Sy Feltz (an impressively mustachioed Michael Stuhlbarg) comes home to his wife on Christmas Eve.
He’s been out at a business dinner with his longtime colleague and friend Emmit Stussy (Ewan McGregor), in hopes of persuading Emmit to sell the pair’s parking lot business to an intrigued businesswoman. But the meeting is interrupted by the news of Emmit’s brother’s death. When Sy drops off Emmit at home, he glances up to notice the villainous V.M. Varga (David Thewlis) peering down from a second-story window.
Rating
So Sy goes home — home being the constant source of security and sanctity in the Fargo universe. But he can’t shake what has happened. The devil is living in his own friend’s house, and for whatever reason, he can’t be cast out. Things have spun out of control.
“The world is wrong!” he wails to his wife. She tries to comfort him, tries to stop his tears, but there’s nothing to be done. In previous seasons of the show, this simple reassertion of domesticity would have been enough to keep the wolves at bay. But now Sy, one of the most decent characters in season three, can’t hold off his despair.
Something is broken in the world, and even though Fargo’s three seasons follow completely different sets of characters, in three separate timelines (with a tiny bit of overlap), they combine to form a convincing argument that what’s broken isn’t the souls of its characters but the economic systems that grind them down. Fargo, see, is ultimately a series about the death of capitalism, where the only people who can profit are con men and hucksters, who see the world for what it really is.
When you start to look at Fargo as a show about the economic wheels that make the world turn, it snaps into focus in a way it often doesn’t when considered solely as a nifty bit of Coen brothers pastiche.
The 1996 Oscar-winning film that gives the FX series its name, setting, and overall aesthetic was a darkly comic but ultimately hopeful tale that suggested the laws of decency and justice would win out in the end. In its final image, a couple sits down to dinner together, while waiting for their first child to arrive; there’s a darkness in the world, it seems to say, but also enough light to shut it out.
Noah Hawley, who created the TV series, has worked with his writers to slowly but surely turn that idea inside out over three seasons of television. Justice might still be meted out on a micro scale. Murderers might be sent to jail, and thieves might be forced to return their ill-gotten gains. But on a macro scale — forget it. You can’t stop the tidal waves that swamp otherwise ordinary Americans, because the tidal waves have become surly, implacable gods, caring little for the rest of us.
That’s why it’s so fitting that the first three seasons of the show are all set during vital moments in American capitalism’s slow strangulation. Season one, set in 2006 and 2007, takes place on the verge of the collapse of the housing market, as an otherwise standard murder investigation in a small town is sidetracked by the presence of Lorne Malvo (Billy Bob Thornton), an amoral contract killer who works for a faceless organization that seems to permeate everything, even if no one realizes it’s there.
Season two is even more explicit, taking place in 1979, at the dawn of Ronald Reagan’s rise. Reagan himself is a character, though Fargo portrays him as a well-meaning dupe who didn’t understand what he was about to unleash. The season’s true story is about a mom-and-pop outfit swept aside by the rise of corporate crime — a symbolic retelling of the corporate invasion of the heartland that kicked off in the ’80s and ran rampant in the ’90s and 2000s.
And finally, season three takes place in 2010 and 2011, just as Americans are beginning to realize that whatever economic recovery they might see after the housing collapse will be long and grinding and unevenly distributed. Here, the well-meaning dupe is at the show’s center; Emmit believes himself to be an upstanding citizen and, indeed, doesn’t do anything wrong. But he nonetheless ends up destroying everything he cares about, solely because he gets into bed with a massive global organization he doesn’t fully understand. The rising tide of globalization raises all boats, but only in theory. Most people — even Emmit in the end — are swamped.
And if you chart Fargo’s storyline chronologically — meaning season two, then season one, then season three — this overarching throughline becomes even more clear. Season two contains hints of the chaos to come, but justice reasserts itself in the end. The American small town is still robust, worth fighting for. Then season one comes along and darkens this idea considerably, but justice arrives in the end (albeit in an anticlimactic and unsatisfying finale). Finally, season three closes in deliberate ambiguity, offering little to no justice whatsoever. Is the cavalry coming? Probably not, but we can hope.
Truth be told, the first half of Fargo’s third season is a little hard to take. It feels like a dull, hollow echo of everything the show did in its first two seasons, with less airtight construction. The season’s initial crimes are two murders committed in comically baroque fashion: one in which a man’s nose and mouth are glued shut, and the other featuring an air conditioner dropped on someone’s head.
Fargo has always been slightly too impressed with itself, as if it’s amazed that it gets to exist on television and trade on the Coen brothers’ name. (A friend of mine once posited that maybe all Hawley truly wants is to have one of the Coens tell him he’s done a good job, and that friend might be right.) The series carries itself with a certain swagger, one that it only barely earned in its first two seasons, thanks to the careful, puzzle-box structure of its stories. Setups and payoffs were deployed with ruthless efficiency in the first two seasons, in a way that feels almost comically unsuited to season three’s messier, less-sure-of-itself plot.
But about halfway through season three, I started to wonder if all of its repetition and unearned bravado wasn’t intentional on some level, wasn’t Fargo having some fun. And then it suddenly veered off course, driving off the well-trod path of puzzle-box fun and into the snowy woods, where it promptly crashed into several trees. I kinda loved it.
The season had opened as the story of two brothers, Emmit and Ray Stussy (both played by McGregor), who had found themselves at odds after Emmit tricked Ray into trading the car the boys’ father had given Emmit for the rare stamps he had given Ray. The car proved fleetingly useful; the stamps funded Emmit’s business enterprises. Their story was, in other words, a tale as old as Jacob and Esau.
Yet Fargo struggled to make Emmit and Ray even half as compelling as everything else going on around them. It was frequently exasperating to see that Emmit didn’t really bring doom down around his ears like previous seemingly upstanding citizens of Fargo, your Lester Nygaards (Martin Freeman) and your Peggy Blumquists (Kirsten Dunst). Instead, he was just in the wrong place at the wrong time, even if he didn’t understand the unparalleled shadiness of the shady characters he took a loan from in the wake of the financial crisis. His feud with Ray felt like old news both to the characters and to Fargo, a catalyst for another season of wacky crime shenanigans.
But the season ultimately wasn’t about wacky crime shenanigans. Instead, the Ray and Emmit feud proved to be a ruse, a way for the show to distract us from the real crimes going on around the two men, which turned out to involve Varga and his cronies using perfectly legal but deeply immoral means to bleed dry everybody they possibly could in order to enrich themselves.
Ray died in episode six, in an accident that Emmit kept trying to claim was a murder because he needed somewhere to put his guilt. And the only one who saw the bigger picture as clearly as possible was Ray’s girlfriend, Nikki Swango (Mary Elizabeth Winstead), who might have been a small-time criminal but recognized the likes of herself when she saw them. Varga, she realized, was just another hustler. He simply had the weight of governments behind him.
As Nikki slowly took over the show, proving to be the only character with a moral compass just broken enough to challenge Varga on his own turf, Fargo snapped into place. She and the deaf assassin Mr. Wrench (Russell Harvard, the first actor to play a major role in two seasons of Fargo, having previously appeared in season one) launched scheme after scheme to get back at Varga. Nikki insisted she didn’t really want his money — she wanted him to feel pain.
At the opposite end of the spectrum from Nikki was the season’s most notable representative of law enforcement, Gloria Burgle (Carrie Coon). Early on, Gloria felt like another waltz through well-trod territory; the Fargo universe has already introduced us to the good and just cop nobody pays attention to. But even though Gloria was the one character to suss out all of the season’s players and exactly how they fit together, it didn’t matter. Varga and company orchestrated an alternate explanation that forced some minor player to take the fall for the season’s string of murders, then skated away with cash in hand. Gloria might have figured out the truth, but those with the money engineered their own version of events and made it into the truth.
The notion of truth and fiction has always animated Fargo — which even in its movie incarnation was based on a “true story” that the Coens had made up. But season three took this idea to an entirely new level, with its casual insistence that since the “truth” is already a story we tell ourselves, that story can be shattered, until everyone has their own truth, their own reality.
At (or near) the start of every episode of Fargo, “THIS IS A TRUE STORY” appears in text on the screen. But in season three, the individual words in that phrase would frequently fade out at different speeds, often leaving just “THIS IS A STORY.” At one point, Varga tells three “true” stories about major world events, and the third involves the moon landing being faked. He’s doing so to get a rise out of Sy, but Fargo has more on its mind. If enough people don’t believe in the moon landing, then it didn’t really happen for them. We construct our own realities inside of our heads, and if they’re true to us, then they’re true, no matter how damaging.
Which is where Gloria — the season’s most overt nod to its Midwestern roots — comes in. At first, I felt Gloria was a waste of Coon’s extraordinary talent, but by the finale, the character felt as vital to season three as Varga and Nikki. Where Varga didn’t seem to exist because he’d gamed the system to hide his true identity, Gloria didn’t seem to exist (and, indeed, she couldn’t get automatic doors or soap dispensers to respond to her and didn’t turn up in online search results) because she still believed in a kind of righteousness the world doesn’t have as much room for these days. She is who we might hope we still can be, just as Nikki is who we probably need to be, and Emmit is who we probably are. And all the while, Varga is sucking every one of us dry before we realize what’s happening, leaving the husk behind.
There’s still an immense power around the mythology of the American small town in American pop culture, but in the third season of Fargo, even the small town is broken down for component parts and subsumed into larger organizations. (Literally! Gloria’s police department is being disbanded and absorbed into the county department.) The good characters are government bureaucrats who still believe in the rule of law, be they police officers or IRS agents. But they’re specks in the ointment for the characters who see the world as something to squeeze until it gives up more money, as something that’s easily discarded.
Nikki dies in a freak encounter, because she must. Emmit gets to putter on because he’s a useless idiot, though he, too, eventually dies (the one muted moment of karmic justice that Fargo’s season three finale serves up). Varga poisons Sy, who ends up a shell of himself. Varga’s operation closes down Emmit’s business and moves on to the next, leaving Emmit behind to foot the bill. And on and on it goes.
Fargo’s third season started out more straightforwardly comic than either of the previous two, but by the time it concluded, the laughter it inspired was almost entirely hollow. The joke was on the characters and maybe on us. Something is deeply broken inside the world, it seemed to say, and even God (or at least his approximation, played here by Ray Wise) was powerless to do much. The season nodded to current events — Russian meddling here; the 2016 election there — but never overtly. It captured, instead, the feeling of being trapped in a system you didn’t invent or no longer want to be part of but have no effective means to change.
In season three’s final scene, Gloria and Varga face off in airport customs in 2016. She now works for the Department of Homeland Security. He’s going by another name. She says she has him, dead to rights, for money laundering. He suggests that someone higher up the government food chain than her will soon arrive to set him free. We’d like to think the world needs people like Gloria, but Fargo argues that the world we’ve built over the past 40 or so years is more likely to need people like Varga than we’d care to admit.
The two sit and wait for the door to open, for either Gloria or Varga to be proved right. Everything we’ve seen in season three so far, everything we see outside our own windows, suggests he’ll be set free. Fargo’s previous seasons suggest that justice will somehow, freakishly, reassert itself, and Gloria will catch her man. But the door remains closed. We wait and wait and wait for answers that never come.
Cut to black.
Fargo season three is streaming on FX Now. Seasons one and two are available on Hulu.
Thanks to a poorly sourced news story, the power of Twitter to make something go viral, and the erotic allure of online outrage, an urban legend was born on Tuesday morning: that the $300,000 Gal Gadot was paid for her starring role in Wonder Woman was pennies compared with Henry Cavill’s alleged payment of $14 million for 2013’s Man of Steel.
It all began when Lauren Duca, a columnist at Teen Vogue, tweeted the following (now deleted) sentiment:
Duca’s tweet was retweeted more than 14,500 times and quickly drew attention to the story. And it’s easy to see why: Not only is it absolutely absurd to think that Gadot was paid 46 times less than Cavill for a better movie, but if it happened to Gadot, the insinuation is that other actresses are likely suffering from the same pay gap.
There’s only one problem: The scenario in Duca’s original tweet wasn’t true.
To be certain, there is absolutely a gender pay gap between actors and actresses in Hollywood, but Gal Gadot’s salary for Wonder Woman isn’t an example of it.
The apparent culprit behind this false comparison is a story published by Elle that has since been updated to reflect its error. The original piece stated that Gadot was making $300,000 for Wonder Woman and that Cavill had made $14 million for Man of Steel. Elle cited a story from Variety as its source for Gadot’s salary, which in turn cited an Israeli entertainment show.
For Cavill’s salary, the Elle piece cited Forbes, which had in turn cited a website called the Richest, one of the internet’s many websites that “tell” you a celebrity’s net worth. The Richest speculates that Cavill’s net worth is $8 million, though that assessment appears to be based on only two pieces of “earnings and financial data,” both from 2013. Those two pieces of data are a $14 million salary and “box office gross” bonuses from Man of Steel, and a $23,900 Omega De Ville Hour Vision wristwatch; the site does not list any other earnings or assets whatsoever, from before Cavill worked on Man of Steel (like the payment he would have received for appearing in The Immortals and Showtime’s The Tudors) or since.
The Elle article spurred Duca’s popular tweet. And after people pointed out to Duca that the $14 million figure had come from a questionable source, she tweeted — and also later deleted — a clarification, while still making the point that Gadot’s salary is tiny compared with the worldwide box office gross that Wonder Woman will haul in:
People were far less interested in that subsequent tweet, and it was only retweeted 198 times before it was deleted.
Meanwhile, Vanity Fair reported that “a source with knowledge of studio negotiations on franchise films” said that it would be “insane” for a studio to pay Cavill that much. And Vulture reported that “Cavill made a six-figure paycheck comparable to Gadot’s for Man of Steel and that his co-star Amy Adams, a much bigger name, pulled in seven figures to play his Lois Lane.”
Vanity Fair’s and Vulture’s sources were unnamed, but both outlets are more reputable and trustworthy than the Richest.
Essentially, the point that Elle, Duca, and others were trying to make about a gender pay gap and Wonder Woman is already broken if the $14 million figure is false — no matter how noble their intentions. That point becomes even more entertainingly incorrect and ironic if Vulture’s source is right about Adams getting paid more than Cavill.
To be clear, the gender pay gap in Hollywood is real — the Sony email hack of 2014 revealed that Jennifer Lawrence was actually paid less than her male co-stars in American Hustle even though she was arguably the biggest star of the movie.
But Gadot’s contract is actually the norm for debut superhero movies: Little-known or unknown actors don’t make that much money when starring in their first superhero films.
Deadline, a well-sourced trade publication like Variety, reported in 2010 that Chris Evans was paid around $300,000 to star in Captain America: The First Avenger. And the Hollywood Reporter points out that Chris Hemsworth made $150,000 initially for appearing in Thor.
These salary numbers feel like drops in the bucket compared with what superhero movies usually rake in at the box office — Captain America: The First Avenger made $370 million worldwide and Thor made $449 million worldwide. Wonder Woman has already surpassed $570 million worldwide. But they also don’t include or consider things like a box office bonus, whether an actor has contractual obligations to appear in future movies, and whatever kind of deals are made for additional compensation that is dependent on the movie’s success.
What Evans and his fellow Marvel stars — most notably Robert Downey Jr. — have done in the wake of their respective successes is renegotiate their contracts. Downey famously parlayed the initial $500,000 he made for Iron Man into $50 million for his appearance in 2012’s first Avengers film.
And Gadot will have the same opportunity as she negotiates potential future Wonder Woman films.
According to Vanity Fair, she hasn’t signed on for the inevitable Wonder Woman sequel. Because Wonder Woman is a smashing box office success, Gadot now has an advantage in negotiating a bigger payday for herself.
After 56 years at Barbie’s side, Ken is getting a makeover.
Mattel announced this week that it’s expanding its fleet of Mr. Rights, offering 15 variations of Ken dolls in three body types, seven skin tones, eight hair colors, and nine hairstyles. Like Barbie’s own makeover last year, which busted the mold on her shape, size, and color, Ken will follow suit for a long-overdue transition into the 21st century.
Translated, Ken — not his friends, distant relatives, or neighbors — will look like the men all around us. Doll purchasers can choose to buy Ken with a fade or man bun; a multiracial, Asian, or Latino Ken; a broad-chested, slimmed-down, or “fit” Ken. And just like the Ken of yesterday, he can be a lawyer, a garbage man, a model.
The release of the broadened Ken line coincides with the introduction of 25 additional Barbie dolls that will join more than 100 diverse dolls and looks launched for Barbie’s Fashionistas line since 2015.
Overall, the announcement is in line with Mattel’s larger public commitment to making toys for the modern era — a commitment that’s seen the company shift away from outdated messaging about attractiveness, opportunity, and success. For decades, Barbie was a vision of exceptionalism that seemed to exclude everyone who wasn’t unrealistically attractive, fit, and white (or at least brown with otherwise white features). Now Mattel’s latest makeover is helping the company rebrand 58 years of marketing that largely defined diversity through a range of hair colors.
Of course, “new” Ken will also offer a range of hair colors, but from waist dimensions to eye shape accentuation, the male doll line’s expansion is more than just a dye job. It’s an evolution.
“Evolving Ken was a natural evolution for the brand and allows girls to further personalize the role they want him to play in Barbie’s world,” said Lisa McKnight, senior vice president and general manager for Barbie, in the statement.
McKnight’s statement reinforces the idea that the impact of the new Kens will still largely benefit young girls, and there’s ample reason to both believe and rejoice over that. Whether it’s redefining the very idea of male attractiveness (something long determined by white male features) or normalizing the body types, races, or styles of people around them, girls can now choose a Ken that better reflects multiple communities and identities. But it’s also very clear that boys can benefit — even if not always directly — from the dolls as well.
Pop culture is one of the most accessible influencers of identity formation, and it’s well reported how media can negatively impact the way girls and young women see themselves. After viewing advertising campaigns and commercials, a 2007 study reported that women increased their belief in the importance of attractiveness and decreased their personal body satisfaction. Furthermore, this negative relationship between representation and self-image has been linked to the media’s influence on perceptions of social reality and happiness — things the Barbie brand, with all its dream houses, occupations, and “perfect boyfriends,” also influences.
But boys — especially boys of color — can have a similar negative relationship with media, self-esteem, body image, and identity formation. For example, an Indiana University study released in 2012 determined that black and white girls, as well as black boys, experienced a hit to their self-esteem after watching extended amounts of television. In fact, white boys were the only children who received a confidence boost from the images they saw on television. The researchers found that the lack of identity ideals for white girls and black children is compounded since kids generally spend so much time in front of the television.
But the boost of self-esteem for white boys should come as no surprise considering that the “Inclusion or Invisibility” report from the University of Southern California found that “across the 11,306 speaking characters evaluated, 66.5 percent were male and 33.5 percent were female,” while 71.7 percent of characters whose races could be determined turned out to be white. Most of our pop culture figures — like that of the old, mostly white Barbie line — ascribe success, power, attractiveness, wealth, and worth of attention to particular characters with particular sets of traits. They are often men, but they are also often not men of color either.
In Media, Gender, and Identity: An Introduction, author David Gauntlett concluded that the imagery and content of magazines can promote self-confidence when it comes to boys and men through indirect messages about ways to live, be happy, and be successful.
“Television programmes, pop songs, adverts, movies and the Internet all ... provide numerous kinds of 'guidance',” Gauntlett writes. “[Magazines] offer some reassurance to men who are wondering, 'Is this right?' and 'Am I doing this OK?’” In short, they can reinforce a stronger management of self-identity and, although not directly “advice giving,” implicate ways of living, happiness, and success.
In short, as a figure of our pop culture imagery, Ken is a role model. Boys, if they aren’t playing directly with Barbie, are playing with toys that are on the shelves next to Barbie. They are potentially seeing Ken in commercials, on shelves, and in their homes, driving Corvettes, being a lawyer, and getting married.
So whether we realize it or not, Ken’s presence is sending messages about confidence, attractiveness, and success. With this newly expanded Ken line, now all boys can receive them.
On the longest day of the year, HBO’s Game of Thrones granted its fans — who have been enduring the longest wait of the year — a new trailer for the show’s seventh season.
The trailer offers several tantalizing glimpses of Westeros’s many warring factions — and of dragons! — but is ultimately wrapped around the main theme of uniting against a common enemy.
"For centuries, our families fought together against their common enemy, despite their differences — together," intones a voice that seems to belong to Jon Snow, who was last seen being declared king in the North at the end of season six. "We need to do the same if we're going to survive, because the enemy is real. It's always been real."
It may be the first day of #Summer, but #WinterIsHere on 7.16 on @HBO. Watch the new #GameofThrones Season 7 trailer. pic.twitter.com/o6VGkGCG4r
We can’t be certain exactly which common enemy that voiceover is referring to, since it’s played over several different images of battle — but it’s pretty easy to guess. One of the first teasers we got about the seventh season played up the presence of the Night King, and this talk about uniting seems to point to a big battle with the White Walkers. And we do get a couple of images that suggest that very thing (including Beric Dondarrion, wielding a giant flaming sword).
But there are also glimpses of some brutal human-on-human fighting, involving the Greyjoys, Daenerys’s army (we saw the Yara and Dany form an alliance at the end of last season), and of course, Dany’s dragons — who are briefly seen flying toward the castle Dragonstone, the ancestral home of the Targaryens, confirming Dany’s return to Westeros this season.
But the trailer returns to the theme of unity by its end, with a concluding voiceover from Sansa that calls back to her father’s death, and underlines the idea that the many squabbling houses of Westeros will have to come together against a greater enemy: "When the snows fall and the white winds blow, the lone wolf dies — but the pack survives."
Game of Thrones will premiere on HBO on July 16.
Over the course of a 20-plus-year career covering television — a career that began with NYPD Blue write-ups in his University of Pennsylvania dorm room and is still going strong — one of the most crucial things Alan Sepinwall has learned is how ephemeral both great TV and television criticism can be. The rise of prestige TV especially has led to a change in how he sees his role as a writer.
“Now because of peak TV, there are just so many shows that the thing I hear most from people is just, ‘Help me, I don’t know what to watch.’ One of the reasons I’ve taken a step back from recapping more things is because I want more time to watch more things so I can function as some kind of a gatekeeper for the people who say they need that,” Sepinwall tells Vox critic at large Todd VanDerWerff on the latest episode of VanDerWerff’s podcast, I Think You’re Interesting.
In addition to working as the TV critic at Uproxx, Sepinwall has been adding to his print bibliography. He wrote TV (The Book): Two Experts Pick the Greatest American Shows of All Time with Matt Zoller Seitz, which was published in September 2016, and he has Breaking Bad 101: The Complete Critical Companion coming later this year. The latter is a compilation of his episode recaps written for the New Jersey Star-Ledger and HitFix, along with interview snippets from conversations with series creator Vince Gilligan and star Bryan Cranston.
Sepinwall says he felt the need to majorly overhaul many of the recaps for Breaking Bad 101, including those for the first season and the show’s finale; he estimates the recaps were just about 50-50 in terms of needing to be changed versus going into the book intact.
“Some of them I didn’t want to touch; I looked at them and it was like, ‘This is perfect, I don’t need to do anything with that.’ And then there are a lot of others where it was like, this is my reaction from Sunday night or whenever I had just watched the screener and turned around and wrote the recap, and that’s how I was feeling then. I didn’t know what was coming in the next episode; it was a lot of breathless speculation,” Sepinwall explains. “The book is still designed to be read as you watch [the episodes]; someone who has never seen the show before could buy the book and read each recap as they watch the series and be okay with it.”
Though he’s been through peaks and valleys since he began covering the industry full time for the Star-Ledger back in 1996, Sepinwall says this current era of “peak TV” has had a profound effect on both his work and the way the medium is perceived by the public.
“I never run out of things to write about. There were definitely times when I had a newspaper column in the late ’90s and early 2000s where I was like, ‘I don’t know what I’m covering today. I don’t know what I’m covering this week, this month.’ Now there’s never a lack of things to do,” Sepinwall says. “When I started doing this and I would tell people what I did for a living they would say, ‘Oh, really, do you write about movies too?’ And I would say no, and they would seem disappointed and like they felt sorry for me. Now I say I write about TV and they instantly list off six or seven shows that they love that they want to talk about, or they want to know the next big thing they should be seeing.”
One of the major changes Sepinwall has noticed over his career is the rise of the season-long narrative arc as opposed to the more traditional, episodic manner of storytelling. He cites many Netflix originals as well as shows like Game of Thrones as being influential in pushing this shift, and says he prefers episodes that focus on a single location as opposed to taking the tour guide approach and boomeranging the audience around Westeros.
Sepinwall is also tepid on the current trend of TV revivals, saying that Terriers is maybe the only one he would wholeheartedly support, even though it would follow in the lukewarm footsteps of the Full House and Gilmore Girls returns.
“TV is alchemy. Shows are made at a certain moment in the lives of the people making them, of the characters on the show, and of the audience watching it. If you change any of those things, let alone all three of them, something is going to be off,” he says.
Still, Sepinwall is highly enthused about the state of television, and has plenty to share on the evolution of his career, what kinds of shows he’d like to see make a return, and whom he’d want to see siting on the Iron Throne. You can hear about all that and more in the full episode, so download today! (And don’t forget to rate, review, and subscribe on the podcast app of your choice.)
To hear more interviews with fascinating people from the world of arts and culture — from powerful showrunners to web series creators to documentary filmmakers — check out the I Think You’re Interesting archives.
Transformers: The Last Knight is probably better than at least some of the four other Transformers films. This is high praise. Maybe?
Now, I never saw the fourth film, Age of Extinction, and the first three all sort of blend together in the memory — though I still maintain the second is one of the worst films I’ve ever watched. But I laughed a few times at The Last Knight, and a couple of those laughs were intentional. It has a certain gonzo purity that kept me waiting for the movie to find some other gear it never located.
Rating
By the time the film reaches its final battle, it’s essentially impossible to distinguish it from any other film in the Transformers franchise, even though this one features a three-headed dragon and Anthony Hopkins calling Transformer Hot Rod a “bitchin’ ride.” At one point, I half wondered if I had fallen asleep and missed some scenes, because the movie seemingly skipped over such a major plot point (one that all of the marketing has centered on!) so quickly — but a viewing companion assured me that, no, the movie just worked that way.
True to the spirit of the film (I guess?), it’s easier to distinguish each Transformers movie from the others by which toys are involved in the battles. The dragon’s presence in The Last Knight might well be the only thing I remember about the film’s final battle a month from now. It might be the primary thing I remember about it now! I could tell you other things about it, sure, but inevitably I’d keep coming back to that dragon. It’s really cool! I’ll bet the action figure of it is cool too!
In the end, The Last Knight kinda washed over me, like all the other Transformers movies. Others with more affection for the franchise have suggested it worked really well for them. So, sure: If you like the Transformers, you might like this a lot. If you’re mostly indifferent, it’s not going to change your mind. But I also had a hard time hating it. There’s fun to be had in The Last Knight, if you can find it among the chaos — and if you can remember it after the fact.
The Last Knight is a good reminder that in the eyes of director Michael Bay, the Transformers movies have always been at least one part disaster flick. (One of Bay’s earliest hits was Armageddon, and almost all of his films since have carried a sense of impending apocalypse.)
Here, a diverse, disparate cast of characters scattered around the globe have to deal with the latest threat to humankind posed by the Transformers: the arrival of the planet Cybertron into near-Earth orbit, that it might suck up all of our resources and return to glorious mechanical life. There’s some business with Arthurian legend, but the bulk of the film consists of waiting for Cybertron to show up.
That diverse, disparate cast of characters includes Cade Yeager (Mark Wahlberg), the hero of the last film, who is here reduced to standing around while people and/or robots tell him how important he is; when it’s revealed what role he has to play in the overall plot, it’s over so quickly you might miss it. (Free idea to the online video makers of the world: Transformers Minus Transformers, which is just Mark Wahlberg wandering around, shouting at giant robots that aren’t there. I think it would most accurately capture the spirit of his performance.)
He’s joined by plucky young orphan Izabella (Isabela Moner) and love interest Vivian (Laura Haddock, bringing a surprising amount to an underwritten part), who was, I suspect, originally written as “British Megan Fox.” And that’s to say nothing of the rest of the motley cast, which includes everybody from the voice of John Goodman to Jerrod Carmichael.
And finally, there’s Hopkins, who is having the time of his life as an elderly British lord who really cares about Transformers. The movie gives Hopkins the most preposterous dialogue, and he delivers all of it like it’s grand theater. He elevates the movie at least a half-star.
The imminent arrival of Cybertron is, as robot disaster movies go, not a bad premise for a robot disaster movie. But it takes forever to get to this point — much less to externalize the threat Cybertron poses to Earth beyond really, really fucking with our tides. This leaves the first hour (of a 160-minute running time) for the film to catch up with all of the returning characters and the state of the world in re: Transformers since the last film. (My favorite detail: Cuba is now a safe haven for Transformers, where they reside under the watchful eye of Castro and John Turturro.)
This gives the film the weird sense of being the season premiere and season finale of a TV show awkwardly sandwiched together. Here’s the episode that catches us up on where everybody is after the cataclysmic events of the last finale, along with some new character introductions. Then there’s a little world building in the midsection (including the slightly daffy reveal that almost every significant person in history — including Harriet Tubman! — has had as one of their primary goals keeping the existence of Transformers a secret). And then we pivot, almost immediately, into the big final battle.
Oh, sure, there are some distractions along the way, like a lengthy prologue set in the times of King Arthur — who was a real dude in the Transformers universe — that is mostly notable for its choice to cast the great Stanley Tucci as Drunk Merlin, a goofy con man who accidentally stumbles upon a downed Transformer ship and makes it the source of his magic. (There’s a weird current of “Magic vs. Science” running throughout The Last Knight, even though the movie’s version of “Magic” is just “Really Advanced Science.” Throughout much of the final battle, Tony Hale — yes, that Tony Hale — runs around screaming, “Why don’t we try physics?!”)
But for the most part, this is Transformers: Another Transformers Movie. It avoids the lows of the second film, in that its story mostly makes sense if you don’t try to think about it for two seconds, and its actors (especially Hopkins and Tucci) are having fun. But it also doesn’t hit the “highs” of the first movie — a movie I don’t really like but still one that tried to tell an actual story about a boy and his cool car, which just so happened to be a robot from beyond the stars.
It, like so many other major Hollywood franchise films, feels like another installment in a middling TV show you keep up with when new episodes hit Netflix.
This means essentially everything the movie has going for it rests at Bay’s feet. So much of this movie has seemingly been hammered out via committee — four credited screenwriters! six or seven credited editors! — that Bay’s hypermasculine, sun-streaked aesthetic becomes the only thing to hold on to.
Bay’s style has a lot of problems (as this movie proves, he tends to shoot all women as if he’s ogling them, including teenage girls), but he gets really, really excited about the prospect of making impossibly good-looking robot disaster movies. Somehow that sweeps the audience along, just as long as you don’t think about any of this for a moment longer than the shot lasts on the screen.
But Bay is also chronically incapable of making action scenes that make any goddamn sense. His sense of geography within a scene is so bad that it affects his sense of geography on Earth, as when the characters enter an “abandoned town” in South Dakota, then race into a skyscraper (in an abandoned town in South Dakota?!) and seem to exit it in an abandoned New York City. Yet he’s good at creating stylish individual shots where you can sort of try to figure out what happened in between them, like in a comic book.
Oh, and, also, there’s a Shia LaBeouf “cameo,” of sorts, but don’t blink or you’ll miss it — or, as with so much in The Last Knight, immediately forget it.
Transformers: The Last Knight is showing in theaters starting Wednesday, June 21, with preview screenings Tuesday, June 20. The fact that the review embargo lifted exactly as preview screenings were beginning on the East Coast doesn’t suggest the studio is super confident in it.
The fourth season of Bachelor in Paradise is officially resuming production after an investigation into possible “misconduct” that allegedly took place during filming of the Bachelor spinoff in Mexico. This news, which comes at the end of an investigation by production studio Warner Bros. that concluded on June 20, is a development that few people expected in what has been both a confusing and utterly concerning story of serious allegations of sexual misconduct.
While the investigation was underway, calls for the show to be canceled grew louder as competing and often contradictory details and rumors about what had happened on set emerged from the contestants in question, Bachelor in Paradise alums, and anonymous crew members alike.
As such, the future of Bachelor in Paradise has been uncertain since June 10, when Warner Bros. first suspended production of season four and released a statement saying that it was “conducting a thorough investigation” into "allegations of misconduct" and would “take appropriate responsive action” once that investigation was concluded.
Related
Those allegations reportedly involved alcohol and a sexual encounter that was captured on film, but according to Warner Bros. in a statement obtained by Variety, the video does not support the charges made against a cast member.
Warner Bros. said:
As we previously stated, we recently became aware of allegations regarding an incident on the set of Bachelor in Paradise in Mexico. We take all such allegations seriously. The safety, security and well-being of the cast and crew is our number one concern, and we suspended filming so that the allegations could be investigated immediately and thoroughly. ... Out of respect for the privacy interests of those involved, we do not intend to release the videotape of the incident. We can say, however, that the tape does not support any charge of misconduct by a cast member. Nor does the tape show, contrary to many press reports, that the safety of any cast member was ever in jeopardy.
In response, an attorney for the female contestant in question has rejected the Warner Bros. statement, insisting that “it needs to be made crystal-clear that production of Bachelor in Paradise was shut down because of multiple complaints received from BIP producers and crew members on the set, and that their “own investigation will continue based on multiple new witnesses coming forward revealing what they saw and heard.”
Shutting down filming is a drastic action for any TV show to take. And in this case, production was stopped less than a week after ABC, which airs Bachelor in Paradise and the rest of the Bachelor franchise, first announced the season’s cast — so the interest in what could’ve caused the stoppage has been especially high. Here’s how the investigation and its ripple effects unfolded.
Bachelor in Paradise is meant to be the looser cousin of The Bachelor, ditching the pretense of a storybook romance in favor of a spring break vibe. The series throws together a group of former Bachelor and Bachelorette contestants in a tropical location in the name of giving them “a second chance at love” (but more likely, drama and salacious hookups).
The show’s fourth season was filming in Mexico when the alleged incident took place. Though Warner Bros.’ official statement about stopping production didn’t include specifics, reporters and online sleuths immediately began piecing together the details.
On June 11, the LA Times’s Amy Kaufman reported on Twitter, via an unnamed Bachelor source, that the incident being investigated stemmed from two contestants getting “extremely drunk” on the first day of filming and then going to the pool, “where they got naked,” at which point their encounter “turned into ‘soft core porn.’” According to Kaufman’s source, a producer who witnessed the interaction not only didn’t show up to work the next day but sued the Bachelor in Paradise production itself for misconduct.
Meanwhile, Bachelor expert Reality Steve (nickname his) reported that season four “has been cancelled. They’re done. Everyone’s being sent home.”
This seemed to be confirmed when Reality Steve tweeted a picture that a Bachelor in Paradise fan took with some cast members at the Puerto Vallarta airport, signaling that the cast had been released from the Bachelor in Paradise set.
Here's most of the cast at the airport an hour ago. Being told they're being flown to Houston. Still don't know what's going on pic.twitter.com/eNgGp0tyZ1
While at first the identity of the contestants in question wasn’t revealed, People reported on the morning of June 12 that DeMario Jackson was the subject of the investigation, with sources saying that the female contestant was alleging that she had been too drunk to consent to a sexual encounter that took place between them — and that other contestants said as much to crew members, who allegedly took no action.
Later that afternoon, People published an interview with an anonymous contestant who said the cast knew “something bad had happened” when they were placed on “lockdown mode,” which in reality TV speak means that “the contestants aren't allowed to speak to each other and are constantly monitored by production.”
According to TMZ, which interviewed unnamed sources connected to Jackson, producers told Jackson they had seen the footage and were “uncomfortable” with what had happened. Soon thereafter, TMZ reported again through sources connected to the female contestant — whose name was initially withheld by some news outlets but later identified as Corrine Olympios — that she remembers nothing and, again, that the crew didn’t listen to contestants who alerted them to her state.
On June 14, Olympios released a statement to BuzzFeed through her publicist:
I am a victim and have spent the last week trying to make sense of what happened on June 4. Although I have little memory of that night, something bad obviously took place, which I understand is why production on the show has now been suspended and a producer on the show has filed a complaint against the production. As a woman, this is my worst nightmare and it has now become my reality. As I pursue the details and facts surrounding that night and the immediate days after, I have retained a group of professionals to ensure that what happened on June 4 comes to light and I can continue my life, including hiring an attorney to obtain justice and seeking therapy to begin dealing with the physical and emotional trauma stemming from that evening.
Hours later, Jackson released his own statement through a publicist to E! News:
It's unfortunate that my character and family name has been assassinated this past week with false claims and malicious allegations. I will be taking swift and appropriate legal action until my name is cleared and, per the advice of legal counsel, will be seeking all available remedies entitled to me under the laws.
The Hollywood Reporter then reported on June 16 that neither Olympios nor Jackson were aware “that anything questionable had happened until they were approached by members of production and the cast the following day,” and were therefore working with their lawyers to request access to the video footage of the incident. Warner Bros.’s statement on June 20, however, suggests that no one but those directly involved in the investigation have seen the footage in question.
After suspending production and conducting an investigation into the allegations, Warner Bros. released a statement to announce that no video supported the claims and that Bachelor in Paradise would resume production:
As we previously stated, we recently became aware of allegations regarding an incident on the set of Bachelor in Paradise in Mexico. We take all such allegations seriously. The safety, security and well-being of the cast and crew is our number one concern, and we suspended filming so that the allegations could be investigated immediately and thoroughly. Our internal investigation, conducted with the assistance of an outside law firm, has now been completed. Out of respect for the privacy interests of those involved, we do not intend to release the videotape of the incident. We can say, however, that the tape does not support any charge of misconduct by a cast member. Nor does the tape show, contrary to many press reports, that the safety of any cast member was ever in jeopardy. Production on this season of Bachelor in Paradise will be resuming, and we plan to implement certain changes to the show’s policies and procedures to enhance and further ensure the safety and security of all participants.
As of Tuesday afternoon, details were still scarce in terms of whether Bachelor in Paradise’s season 4 cast will remain the same and whether Jackson and Olympios will return to the show, with no specifics available regarding the “certain changes” that Warner Bros. will be making. Bachelor in Paradise was originally scheduled to premiere on August 8; there is no word yet on whether or not that date will shift now that production is set to resume after the delay.
Having completed its investigation, Warner Bros. is clearly ready to move past the incident and get back to business. But its statement on its findings, paired with an apparent “full steam ahead” attitude toward restarting production of season four, almost raises more questions than it answers.
For example:
Why would a producer make a move to shut down a production — an enormous decision that inevitably costs jobs and money — unless there was a reason to do so?
Unless Olympios gave consent while sober, what kind of conclusive proof could the video contain as to whether or not she was too drunk to give consent during a sexual encounter that no one is denying took place?
Why did so many of the on-set reports contradict each other?
And how, exactly, will the final cut of Bachelor in Paradise season four aim to handle this incident (or ignore it) within the context of what is otherwise a candy-coated dating show?
The only thing we currently know for sure is that, while Warner Bros. might have concluded its investigation, this is likely only the beginning of the questions Bachelor in Paradise will face going forward.
The city of Philadelphia recently learned that the rainbow flag, a symbol of LGBTQ pride, isn’t quite as unifying as it may seem.
For Pride Month, Philly added two colors — black and brown — to the existing pride flag, and hoisted it outside City Hall. The colors, according to the Philadelphia Office of LGBT Affairs’ More Color More Pride campaign, represent inclusion of people of color in the LGBTQ community.
“In 1978, artist Gilbert Baker designed the original rainbow flag,” the campaign states. “So much has happened since then. A lot of good, but there’s more we can do. Especially when it comes to recognizing people of color in the LGBTQ+ community. To fuel this important conversation, we’ve expanded the colors of the flag to include black and brown.”
Philadelphia’s initiative to be more inclusionary toward nonwhite LGBTQ people comes from a good place, but its reception has been marked by controversy. The flag has historically represented LGBTQ people as a whole, and critics of Philly’s changes to it believe those changes are unnecessary, since the flag is already a symbol of unity.
“The stripes [on the original rainbow flag] were not chosen for skin color — they were chosen to reflect the spectrum of color in nature,” a longtime friend of Baker’s, Charley Beal told NBC. “The only thing we would ask is that other people would not take it and put Gilbert’s name on it, because they didn’t do it in consultation with him, and he didn’t do it.” (Baker died earlier this year, on March 31.)
Though Beal believes that Philly’s adaptation of the rainbow flag should be viewed as an independent symbol from the one Baker created, he acknowledged that he supports the intentions behind it. That’s a lot more elegant than some of the conversation surrounding the new flag, like people asking for a white stripe, or people claiming that adding to the two colors to the flag is disrespectful or that it’s racist for not explicitly including white people.
And those sentiments have been met with a vocal, spirited response:
White gays dont like us including PoC in the Pride Flag? How about fuck off. Eat it.✊ ✊ ✊ ✊   pic.twitter.com/xRTIWvZSOY
At a glance, fighting over the rainbow flag might seem unnecessary. On one level, the conflict feels like a simple byproduct of disconnect between the message of the flag and the people criticizing it, rather than anything malicious. But on another, it represents a deeper divide and frustration that exists within the LGBTQ community, and the realization that, in spite of the LGBTQ’s community’s ongoing fight for equality, civil rights, and progress, there’s still divisiveness and discrimination within the community itself.
Philadelphia and its Pride campaign’s addition of two stripes to the rainbow flag comes amidst the city’s underlying problem with racial discrimination in its gay bars. As Eater reported in February, 11 gay bars and nightlife venues were recently required to take anti-racism training after complaints were made that the bars and clubs were discriminating against nonwhite patrons. One of the complaints involved iCandy Philadelphia owner Darryl DePiano, who was caught using the n-word on tape:
Other complaints involved bars and clubs denying entry to nonwhite people based on vague dress codes, and white male patrons getting preferential treatment. And according to a 2017 report from the Philadelphia Commission on Human Relations, which investigated and studied these complaints, it found that “transwomen of color are particularly vulnerable to discrimination, harassment, and physical violence.”
The flag seems to be a response to this problem.
“It’s a push for people to start listening to people of color in our community, start hearing what they’re saying,” Amber Hikes, the new executive director of Philadelphia's Office of LGBT Affairs, told NBC. “And really to believe them and to step up and say, ‘What can I do to help eradicate these issues in our community?’”
Hikes told NBC that most of the pushback her office has received in response to the new flag has come from white gay men. And to be fair, it’s unclear whether the white gay men who have complained about the flag are fully aware of the discrimination that’s been documented within Philadelphia’s LGBTQ community, or the context of the flag’s inclusionary message that’s specific to the city.
But the controversy over Philly’s flag is telling.
In particular, it brings attention to what Vice aptly sums up as “the lack of intersectionality” in LGBTQ culture. In simple terms, there are some LGBTQ people who will fight for LGBTQ-specific rights — e.g., same-sex marriage — but then fall short when it comes to other issues that affect LGBTQ people, like racism or sexism or economic inequality.
And there have been many times when the LGBTQ community at large has failed its poor and non-white members, and that many LGBTQ people, particularly white gay men, have failed to recognize or ignored those failings.
The LGBTQ community has frequently shown that despite being discriminated against for being gay or queer, its members are fully capable of discriminating too.
One example of this is casual discrimination within the community that’s based on race, or body type, gender, or mannerisms, specifically among gay men — the idea that anyone who doesn’t fit the image of the “ideal” gay man is somehow less than. Discrimination in gay bars based on race (and not just in Philadelphia) is another example.
Other examples include failing to recognize or address escalating violence against transgender people in America, the country’s problem with LGBTQ homeless youth (who are disproportionately likely to be nonwhite), and insufficient attention and action around the fact that HIV/AIDS disproportionately affects black American gay and bisexual men  And then there’s the constant erasure of LGBTQ people of color in the community’s history, like the white-washing of the role of nonwhite individuals in the Stonewall Riots.
Further, reports surrounding recent elections in France, the UK, and the US have documented white gay men adopting alt-right, white nationalist, and white supremacist movements.
It’s no surprise, then, that symbols like the pride flag, messages of equality, and civil rights victories like same-sex marriage, can feel empty for many LGBTQ people of color and other communities under the LGBTQ umbrella. Earlier this month, a group called No Justice No Pride boycotted Capitol Pride in DC, and plans to do it at New York’s Pride march on Sunday.
“This movement has come from a point of exhaustion and frustration — from queer and trans black and brown people and other marginalized communities who have felt that their experiences and their truths have been ... dismissed,” the group’s DC organizer Emmelia Talarico told USA Today.
In that context, it’s understandable that supporters of Philadelphia’s pride flag think that adding black and brown stripes is the least the city could do to be more inclusive.
“I'm proud to live in a city that would dare to advance important conversations and race during Pride like Philly has,” Zach Wilcha, the executive director at the Independence Business Alliance, Greater Philadelphia’s LGBT Chamber of Commerce told me. Adding these stripes to the pride flag is a small gesture toward showing that previous efforts of inclusion have not been enough.
When the culture of hip-hop first began to take shape in the 1970s, it consisted of at least four fundamental elements: deejaying, emceeing, graffiti, and breaking.
Breaking, popularly known as breakdancing today, was created in the Bronx in New York City. The term breakdancing as it’s used in the media often mixes New York’s b-boying and West Coast–developed dance styles like popping, locking, and the electric boogaloo. B-boy dance moves are influenced by a number of cultural sources, including African-American and Afro-Caribbean music, kung fu, and capoeira.
Breaking reached peak popularity in the mid-1980s, when a number of films  showcased the moves and the youth who created it. Breaking began as a mode of self-expression; it was a part of a larger culture that reflected the social, economic, and political conditions of the youth at that time. Now, decades later, as the style and moves of breaking have changed, so have some of its traditions.
Watch the video above to learn more about breaking and how it’s changed since its humble beginnings.
Trevor Noah has so much news to get through every day that he frequently packs as much as he can into a segment called “Ain’t Nobody Got Time For That” — but on his June 19 show, he made sure to devote some of the segment’s airtime to Philando Castile.
After the cop who fatally shot Castile in July 2016 was acquitted of all charges last week, Noah had a couple questions. The main one, however, was simple: How?
“Every time I watch that video,” Noah began, referring to the Facebook Live video that Castille’s girlfriend, who witnessed the shooting, streamed in its immediate aftermath, “the question I ask myself is, ‘How?’ Just ... how? How does a black person not get shot in America? Because if you think about it, the bar is always moving. The goalposts are always shifting. There’s always a different thing that explains why a person got shot ... at some point you realize, there’s no real answer.”
What’s more, Noah continued, is that at least one group is demonstrating some appalling hypocrisy by not speaking out on this verdict in particular. “Philando Castile wasn’t just a man shot at a traffic stop,” Noah said. “He was a legal gun owner whose family was in the car, and who had committed no crime at all ... because he was lawfully armed, you would think that one powerful group in America would say something about it. This is a group you’d expect to be losing their goddamn minds about this.”
But, no. As Noah pointed out, the NRA has been “completely silent” on the Castile verdict, despite his case being, “according to their rhetoric, everything they stand against: an officer of the state depriving a citizen of his life because he was legally carrying a firearm.” Noah then played a clip of NRA CEO Wayne LaPierre giving a speech at 2014’s CPAC in which he declared that there’s “no greater freedom” than the right to defend oneself with “all the rifles, shotguns and handguns we want.”
“...‘Unless you’re black,’ is what [LaPierre] should’ve said,” Noah countered. “It’s interesting how the people who define themselves by one fundamental American right — the right to bear arms — show that once race is involved, the only right that they believe in is the right to remain silent.”
You can watch the full clip above; the Philando Castile segment starts around four minutes in.
If you want someone to explain exactly why you can’t stop talking about that one celebrity — and why no one else you know can either — there’s no one better qualified for the task than Anne Helen Petersen, the author of Too Fat, Too Slutty, Too Loud.
Rating
Petersen is a former academic with a PhD in media studies. Her specialty is star studies, a discipline that reads celebrity personas like texts, unpacking all of the fantasies and anxieties that audiences project onto celebrities — and that celebrities, in their turn, exploit in order to build up their fame.
Petersen built her online presence writing about the personas of classic Hollywood celebrities for the Hairpin, where she established her distinctive voice: academic and rigorous, but not jargon-y; always smart and informed, but never condescending. Most recently, she’s been a senior culture writer for BuzzFeed, where she analyzes how Angelina Jolie used semiotics to refurbish her post–Jennifer Aniston reputation, and the peculiar blankness at the heart of Melania Trump’s celebrity image. (Petersen recently announced that she would be turning her focus to covering the Mountain West.)
A great Anne Helen Petersen piece uses a celebrity as a lens for examining what we as a culture care about. Celebrities fascinate us because they embody certain cultural preoccupations — Jennifer Lawrence is cool in the way we think girls should be cool; Tom Hanks is an ideal white middle-class dad — so by taking apart the way a celebrity performs a persona, Petersen can analyze what about that persona is most compelling to us. She uses celebrity as a way of talking about what ideas we find attractive and what we find threatening.
In Too Fat, Too Slutty, Too Loud, Petersen turns her attention to 10 women whose celebrity personas overreach the boundaries our culture has prescribed for women: Serena Williams is “too strong,” Madonna is “too old,” Hillary Clinton is “too shrill.”
These 10 “unruly” women have garnered public approbation for living public lives while overstepping one of the many invisible, brutally policed boundaries of socially acceptable femininity. How dare Madonna show her hands in public, at her age? How dare Kim Kardashian spend her pregnancy in skin-tight dresses — especially that pregnant? How dare Serena Williams grunt when she hits a tennis ball? And isn’t Hillary Clinton’s voice annoying?
By analyzing her 10 subjects, Petersen is able to make the invisible boundaries of femininity visible and legible: Hillary Clinton is considered too shrill because it makes us uncomfortable to listen to women campaign for public office. Serena Williams is considered too strong because she violates tennis’ racial and class expectations. Kim Kardashian was considered too pregnant during her first pregnancy because her body failed to conform to the polite, contained outline we demand of famous pregnant women and their petite “baby bumps.”
Petersen gives her subjects all due credit for maintaining their unruliness in the face of public pressure, but Too Fat, Too Slutty, Too Loud is not a hagiography. Petersen is a nuanced enough writer to explore, for instance, the transphobia Caitlyn Jenner (“too queer”) has faced as one of the most famous trans women in America, and to acknowledge that Jenner transitioned from a place of enormous privilege and has consistently championed policies that hurt the rest of the trans community. Petersen recognizes that all your faves are problematic, but that doesn’t stop her from analyzing what makes them your faves in the first place.
Too Fat, Too Slutty, Too Loud is the best kind of celebrity gossip book: it’s a book that shows us what celebrity gossip says about us. It demands to know why we are so obsessed with the ways in which these unruly women perform their femininity — and what it finds is not flattering to a society that likes to insist that sexism is over.
The two best episodes of American Gods’ first season are about Laura Moon (Emily Browning). But Laura Moon is not supposed to be the main character. She is the dead wife of the ostensible protagonist.
There’s “Git Gone,” in which we see Laura fitfully flirting with death until she actually dies, and discovers that she’d like to live after all. And there’s “Prayer for Mad Sweeney,” in which the now-dead-and-reanimated Laura sets off on a road trip across the country with a leprechaun and a Muslim cab driver who’s in love with a djinn, like a demented Dorothy in Oz, looking for a way to live more permanently.
Other episodes of American Gods have been more philosophical. They’ve spotlighted the flashy, immensely charismatic performances of Ian McShane as the grandstanding divine conman Mr. Wednesday, and Gillian Anderson as the chameleonic Media. But those episodes are by and large grounded in the character of Shadow Moon (Ricky Whittle) — the protagonist, the audience stand-in, the figure offered up to viewers for our identification. And since American Gods does not seem to be all that interested in Shadow as a character, those episodes had a tendency to feel hollow.
But while Shadow Moon is the show’s narrative anchor, Laura is the character in whom American Gods is emotionally invested. Her episodes have heart and sparkle and emotional resonance. It is easy to care about Laura’s well-being, while Shadow’s well-being can easily become an afterthought, secondary to the plot mechanics driven by his character.
To understand why Laura is the best part of this TV show, you need to understand the relationship between American Gods, the TV show produced by Bryan Fuller, and its source material American Gods, the novel by Neil Gaiman. The TV show’s Laura is specifically a Bryan Fuller character, while its Shadow is Bryan Fuller interpreting a Neil Gaiman character. That distinction lies at the heart of what makes the TV show’s Laura so compelling.
Neil Gaiman’s American Gods is a hybrid road trip novel/epic fantasy with a sprawling mythology to match, but in its heart of hearts, it’s noir. It’s smoke-filled rooms and neon reflections on wet pavement. It’s the Raymond Chandler-esque story of Shadow Moon, a man walking down mean streets who is not himself mean.
Shadow is a fundamentally good and moral person in an immoral world, mixed up in a conspiracy that he struggles to fully comprehend. He’s not afraid to throw a punch, but he’d prefer to handle things peacefully, and he says little but thinks a great deal. When presented with the impossible, he is unflappable. “I’m a leprechaun,” Mad Sweeney says, and “Shadow did not smile. ‘Really?’ he said. 'Shouldn't you be drinking Guinness?’” It’s that unflappable chill that makes Shadow so likable: Miraculous things might be happening all around him, but Shadow will just take things as they come. He goes with the flow. He’s cool.
Gaiman’s Laura, in the meantime, is a cipher. She is not central to any of the novel’s aims. She is the wife who was unfaithful in life but devoted in death, a deus ex machina who can be counted on to rescue Shadow whenever he finds himself in a particularly sticky situation and then disappear into the background. She serves both to establish Shadow’s bona fides as a nice guy — he loves his wife! — and to absolve him when he sleeps with other women on his journey: He might still have a wife walking around, but after all, she died in the act of giving his best friend a blowjob, so who could blame him for sleeping around a little?
This is not an unusual combination for Gaiman, who tends to like everyman protagonists with faithless, abrasive girlfriends. Neverwhere’s Richard is a charmingly bumbling Martin Freeman type who finds his inner hero over the course of the novel; his domineering girlfriend, Jessica, steps over the prone body of a girl lying bleeding in the street without blinking. Stardust’s boyish Tristran Thorn sets off on a quest to bring a fallen star back to Victoria Forester, but Victoria is only playing with Tristran’s feelings and actually loves another.
I don’t mean to suggest that Gaiman can’t write compelling women — Neverwhere has plucky, likable Door and terrifyingly efficient Hunter; Stardust has the delightfully angry Yvaine — but that there is a slot at the beginning of every Gaiman book that seems to be marked “girlfriend: not good.” In Gaiman novels, the girlfriend or wife at the beginning of the book tends to stand for domesticity, for the mundane world that the hero must leave behind. And because the world of adventure and excitement must be seductive, the woman who represents domesticity must be vaguely off-putting: She’s faithless to the hero, or doesn’t care much for him, or is simply not a very nice person.
In American Gods, Laura shambles after Shadow and trails the promise of the mundane world behind her, but Shadow, fully engulfed in the world of gods and conspiracies, refuses to be tempted back. As far as he’s concerned, Laura is dead, and the world she symbolizes is dead, too.
In Gaiman’s American Gods, Laura is significant for her role as a symbol in Shadow’s personal journey. As a character, she is a cipher.
Fuller, like Gaiman, uses Shadow as the central protagonist, the audience’s proxy in a marvelous and unknowable world. But where Gaiman’s Shadow had the luxury of emoting inwardly and presenting the outward world with a cool, blank stare, Fuller’s Shadow is visibly shaken by the miracles around him. He blusters; he yells; he is angry and afraid.
The result is that he loses the Philip Marlowe cool of Gaiman’s Shadow, which is a mixed blessing. On the one hand, it’s nice to get a hero with Ricky Whittle’s impressive musculature who has little machismo and who blushingly admits that he likes little marshmallows in his hot chocolate. But this change also means that Fuller’s Shadow loses most of the suggestions of an inner life that made Gaiman’s Shadow compelling. Fuller’s Shadow appears to be exactly who he says he is: a straightforward and simple man who is not that bright and not that interesting, surrounded by bright and interesting people.
Most of the cool of Gaiman’s Shadow appears to have landed on Fuller’s Laura instead. Laura reacts to her new world of gods and monsters with a dead-eyed and implacable smirk. “Did you just name drop Jesus Christ like you know a guy who knows a guy?” she sneers. Laura has no chill, but she’s cool — and she’s cool while maintaining a rich and compelling inner life that the audience can see.
That inner life is, in fact, lovingly rendered: We see Laura’s depression during her life, and how she self-medicated by sniffing bug spray and picking up guys who seemed dangerous; we see her fumblingly attempt intimacy with a puppy-like Shadow and then sink back into depression; we see her existential horror at the afterlife with which she’s faced and her desperation to return to her old life and to Shadow.
Fuller’s Laura goes through the character arc of a Gaiman hero in reverse: Shadow represents domesticity for her, and he is running away. Laura is chasing him down to get out of the world of excitement and adventure and back to mundanity.
Laura has the charisma and the emotional arc of a main character. And for Fuller, she also has the thematic resonance of one.
Fuller’s most recent shows tend to revolve around variations on the same relationship: One character represents life, the other character represents death, and they are drawn to each other, and at the same time repelled by each other.
On Pushing Daisies, Ned the pie-maker has the power to resurrect the dead, and he represents life. He is in love with Chuck, the dead girl he resurrected, but if they touch, he will kill her. Their relationship is charming and just on the right side of twee, but it’s also fundamentally tragic — and because Ned and Chuck can never touch, their relationship can never be fully resolved. (Or at least, it wasn’t before the show’s untimely cancellation.)
On Hannibal, Will Graham represents life: He rescues and fosters dogs; he solves murders; he’s always surrounded by lush natural landscapes. And Hannibal Lector, the cannibal, is a Satanic incarnation of death. Will and Hannibal are implacably imposed in their missions, but there is an erotic and romantic charge to their connection that they are only able to fulfill when they first commit murder together and then leap to their probable deaths.
This is not a new thematic fixation for Fuller: The first series he created on his own, 2004’s Dead Like Me, doesn’t contain a romantic life/death pairing, but it is about a group of dead people helping usher the living to their preordained deaths, while simultaneously struggling to function as dead people in the living world. Fuller left Dead Like Me before its first season concluded, and the series’ focus quickly shifted, but its fundamental tension — the push and pull between life and death, constantly drawn to and repelled by each other — was one Fuller has continued to explore in his subsequent work.
The object of Fuller’s aesthetic interest is consistently death: death made charming and whimsical and romantic in Pushing Daisies, or death made seductive and demonic in Hannibal. At the heart of those two most recent stories is, put very simply, a living man who wants to fuck death and feels weird about it.
In American Gods, Laura is Fuller’s way into this preoccupation. Laura is death made rotten: Her flesh turns gray over the course of the first season and begins to fall off of her body, and when she kisses Shadow, the kiss tastes of cigarettes and bile and formaldehyde. American Gods is a show about gods, and death is the god in which Bryan Fuller is most interested. But death as a god wasn’t a major presence in Gaiman’s American Gods, so Fuller found another way to get to it. Laura is the embodiment of the god about whom Fuller makes his art.
Shadow is the other half of the traditional Fuller relationship — he should represent life to Laura’s death. But Shadow is busy moving plot, doing all the things that Gaiman invented him to do, the things that Fuller seems to think are just pretty interesting but not, like, the most compelling things in the world.
But Gaiman left plenty of blank space around Laura’s comings and goings. Gaiman’s Laura has little to do besides periodically appear to rescue Shadow, and her backstory is minimal. Fuller had plenty of room to rewrite Laura as his own character, designed to investigate the ideas and questions in which he is most interested.
American Gods currently exists as two TV shows. First, there’s the one that’s mostly based on the Neil Gaiman book. That TV show is about Norse gods going to war with the gods of media and the internet, and while it’s doing a pretty serviceable job as a showcase for some fantastic performances by its gods, it’s really struggled to flesh out its main character.
And then there is the TV show that is pure Bryan Fuller, about a dead woman trying to bring herself to life again, with occasional appearances from the husband who is both drawn to her and disgusted by her. That show has a terrific main character — but it only makes up about a quarter of American Gods’ first season.
As American Gods heads into its second season, one of its biggest challenges will be to find a way to integrate those two different shows. And if it can’t come up with a way to make Shadow as compelling as it has made Laura, it should seriously consider switching its focus to its other main character.
This article discusses the fifth season of Orange Is the New Black in full. Reader beware, because there are:
Now that Orange Is the New Black has gone for broke in its fifth season, it’s time for the show to admit there’s no fixing what it’s done with Litchfield — and to start over from scratch.
Season four ended with an inmate pointing a gun squarely at a guard; season five is entirely focused on the prison riot that ensues once she pulls the trigger, unfolding over three frantic days of negotiations, inmates torturing guards, and everyone doing pretty much whatever the hell they want. A riot is a really tricky corner for the show to try to write itself out of and neatly resolve — so season five doesn’t even try.
Instead, it leans into the spirit of total chaos, making for the sloppiest, most confusing season of Orange Is the New Black yet. The show’s signature flashbacks are random and blunt, rarely having anything to do with what’s happening elsewhere in the episodes they appear in. The show’s tone, which has always swung wildly from comedy to drama and back again, becomes a whirling dervish of total nonsense. Inmates do horrific things like rape guards and auction off a fellow inmate as a slave, but with such genuine giddiness that their actions might as well be punctuated by a laugh track.
There are sporadic moments in season five that reminded me how good Orange Is the New Black can be — mostly those including Danielle Brooks’s Taystee and Selenis Leyva’s Gloria — but for the most part, it’s a total goddamn mess.
By the time the season ends, a SWAT team has swept through almost all of Litchfield, apprehending inmates and separating them onto buses headed to different prisons. The woman who shot the guard (Dascha Polanco’s hangdog Dayanara) is led away in handcuffs. And while the finale ends on a cliffhanger — 10 of the show’s main inmates hold hands in the basement and wait for a potentially deadly show of force — it feels more than anything like the show is exhausted by the effort required to keep up with its increasingly stupid stories.
If Orange Is the New Black wants to keep going — and it must, thanks to a triple renewal that will keep it around through at least season seven — it needs to let go of its convoluted baggage and find a way to reset. With Orange Is the New Black’s narrative spinning out of control, it’s officially time for the show to embrace something akin to an anthology format by recycling the cast and giving another set of deserving stars and stories a shot.
When Orange Is the New Black premiered in 2013, it (rightfully) earned praise for focusing on the kind of stories TV still rarely tells. With blonde prepster Piper (Taylor Schilling) acting as what creator Jenji Kohan called “a Trojan horse,” the show gave real time and consideration to women of color, poor women, immigrants. It made a point of showing how no one person was defined by what landed them in prison, highlighting the systemic rot that puts so many people at a constant disadvantage.
The show also succeeded because its casting is generally spot-on. Schilling, and Laura Prepon as her star-crossed lover Alex, might have been the initial stars, but actors like Brooks, Leyva, Uzo Aduba, Laverne Cox, and Samira Wiley soon became the best reasons to follow all the screwed-up ins and outs of Litchfield Penitentiary. The cast of Orange Is the New Black didn’t, and still doesn’t, look like any other on television.
But by the end of season five, everyone has just about hit their wall. Taystee, after hours upon hours of negotiating, fails to get any kind of justice for either her dead friend or the prison at large. Gloria both breathes a sigh of relief after her son — revealed to be seriously ill midway through season five — has a successful surgery, and accepts that it will probably be years before she ever sees him again. Suzanne (Aduba) recovers from a mental breakdown with the support of women who, once plainly exasperated by her, would now move mountains to save her. Piper and Alex get engaged.
I’ve followed these women for years, but it says something about how frustrating their stories have become lately that I truly don’t care what happens to them next. As good as these characters have been in the past, I’m more than ready to spend time with some new ones who are completely unburdened by the past five seasons of increasingly confused storytelling.
Season five’s cliffhanger might be a last-ditch effort to keep us invested in the next stage of the riot, but from where I’m standing, the more interesting narrative possibilities lie outside Litchfield’s walls, now that so many of the prison’s inmates are being split up and sent to different prisons.
There’s obviously no getting back to the Litchfield we and they once knew — if the riot didn’t kill that possibility, I will call serious logical bullshit — so why not just call it? Even if Orange Is the New Black doesn’t want to devote itself completely to an anthology format, which requires a narrative reset with every new season, it could at least follow a couple of the characters we’re already familiar with and have season six center on them meeting and interacting with an entirely new slate of people.
Call this kind of reset the Grey’s Anatomy approach: Keep some of the characters that still work, and bring in a whole host of new ones to infuse Orange Is the New Black with fresh stories. That way, the show can get back to what it does best — telling unexpected stories and pulling back the curtain on corruption — without having to wade through its own narrative bog to get there.
Honestly, I won’t be surprised if this turns out to be the show’s plan all along. Kohan is a demonstrated fan of upending her show’s premise to try something else (see: Weeds’ sixth season forcing the cast to move elsewhere and live undercover). It would be strange if she gave the go-ahead for the show to write such a disastrous prison riot without considering the idea that, y’know, real disasters have real destabilizing consequences that aren’t so easy to tie up even throughout an entire season.
And here’s the thing: Starting over with a new cast (ideally one that’s a little less sprawling than the one season five eventually had to juggle) would be easy. The revolving door that is the show’s prison system lends itself well to bringing in new characters and releasing old ones without it feeling too easy. It’s not like the kinds of stories Orange Is the New Black thrives on depend on the setting of Litchfield specifically — and now that the show has almost literally blown up Litchfield, it might as well make it official and leave the rubble behind for good.
Seasons one through five of Orange Is The New Black are now available on Netflix.
The news about why Bachelor in Paradise shut down its fourth season mid-production started as a trickle of rumors, and has since became a full-on flood of increasingly disturbing information.
While production studio Warner Bros. conducts “a thorough investigation,” reports have emerged of a possible sexual assault occurring on set — along with, allegedly, an inexcusable lack of in-the-moment crew intervention when some contestants realized the woman involved may have been too drunk to consent; according to the LA Times’s reporting, a producer seems to have filed a formal complaint after the fact, which is what halted production. (The two contestants in question have since released statements vowing to get to the truth of the situation, with both requesting access to the video of the incident, which Warner Bros. has so far not released to either the contestants or ABC.)
By all accounts, whatever happened on the Bachelor in Paradise set was horrifying — but taken in the context of what reality shows of its type often encourage of their contestants in the pursuit of drama, it’s unfortunately not entirely shocking, either.
To be very clear (so clear that I would skywrite the following if I could afford it): In no way does this mean an assault could have been avoided if only the alleged victim or her alleged assailant hadn’t had so many drinks. Being drunk is not and will never be an adequate excuse for one person assaulting another.
But reality shows like Bachelor in Paradise, which assemble a group of people under one roof and give them almost nothing to do but date and drink in hopes of sparking salacious situations — all while producers nudge them to interact in one way or another in service of the best “storylines” — are all about blurring the line between “normal” interactions and ones “salacious” enough for TV.
Or, to be even more blunt: When a show encourages shitty behavior, truly shitty things just might happen.
On the one hand, this burgeoning Bachelor in Paradise disaster isn’t typical of The Bachelor franchise, or any reality program. No production wants to be liable for any criminal activity whatsoever, and so it’s a producer’s job to keep things in line as much as it is to find good stories among the cast. Shows like Real World and Road Rules have gotten much stricter over the years about sending home contestants who get into physical fights, drunken or otherwise, and reportedly conduct psychological tests before casting to evaluate contestants for possibly violent behavior.
But even the most carefully worded liability waivers — those contracts protecting shows from contestants suing over potential damages suffered on the show — can’t guarantee that a show will catch every situation before it gets out of control. Stricter policies or no, incidents still happen, to the point where drunken fights have become a staple of the genre; Jersey Shore, for example, featured multiple drunken altercations onscreen, at least one of which resulted in a lawsuit against MTV.
Incidents like the alleged Bachelor in Paradise assault are still much more rare — but unfortunately not unheard of, either.
In 2003, Real World: San Diego came to a halt when a 22-year-old woman, found naked and disoriented in the house’s bathroom after a night of drinking, alleged that a cast member’s guest had drugged and raped her. According to reports, MTV and Bunim-Murray, the production company behind Real World, did not report the rape allegation, and initially resisted letting the police search the house for evidence. The show lost a month of footage; no arrests were made.
In 2012, MTV settled a lawsuit filed by Tonya Cooley, a Real World alum who accused two of her castmates on Real World/Road Rules Challenge: The Ruins of raping her with a toothbrush while she was passed out. (Like the alleged Bachelor in Paradise victim, Cooley reportedly learned about the assault from other castmates.) In its initial response to Cooley’s allegations — which included a charge that the production itself had “condoned, encouraged, and ratified” aggressive behavior from the men while on set — Viacom’s defense included the following jaw-dropping paragraph:
[Cooley] failed to avoid the injuries of which she complains. ... [She] was frequently intoxicated (to an extent far greater than other contestants), rowdy, combative, flirtatious and on multiple occasions intentionally exposed her bare breasts and genitalia to other contestants.
As defenses against rape allegations go, saying that the alleged victim “failed to avoid the injuries of which she complains” is such classic victim blaming that it’s almost unbelievable — almost.
The case was settled out of court, and Cooley is legally unable to discuss the case any further. But a recent BuzzFeed oral history of the Challenge franchise still covered the case, with some contestants throwing doubt on the alleged sequence of events. The one thing the Road Rules women from throughout the years seemed to agree on, however, was the fact that the house felt like a frat, in which some bored men got drunk and made a sport out of making the women feel uncomfortable.
“The guys try to take your tops off in the pool or whatever, and there’s unlimited alcohol,” contestant Susie Meister told BuzzFeed. “It’s sort of like a breeding ground for bad behavior. So it does become difficult if you want to maintain any sense of dignity or self-respect when you are a woman on this show.”
Real World, Road Rules, and Bachelor in Paradise all live and die by the drama that producers and contestants create onscreen. And for the many series in the live-in reality show genre — which usually isolate their cohabitating contestants by depriving them of TV, phones, books, or anything else that may distract them from creating said drama — supplying alcohol to exhausted contestants and prodding them to stir shit up is a go-to tactic to jump-start the action.
This method of causing drama now has a more high-profile showcase in UnReal, the scripted Lifetime show that dramatizes creator Sarah Gertrude Shapiro’s experience as a Bachelor producer. The extreme lengths to which UnReal’s producer characters go to get their contestant to bend and break in the ways the producers want are intentionally horrifying — and, according to real-life Bachelor contestants, not entirely hyperbolic.
In 2016, Bachelor season five contestant Jessica Holcomb told Cosmopolitan that while producers aren’t “forcing alcohol down your throat,” there’s just “nothing to do” but drink and eat — a strategic choice that results in more pliable contestants.
“The boredom is truly the worst part,” Meister said to BuzzFeed on why things could get so out of hand on The Challenge. “It’s mind-numbing, and that, for me, is why people are acting like they’re in a zoo, because it feels like you’re in a cage.”
Reality producers who’ve spoken on the record about their behind-the-scenes process of masterminding storylines usually insist that they are in control of every situation, as a Bachelor franchise veteran recently did in an interview with Variety in the wake of the Bachelor in Paradise scandal. And one male Bachelor in Paradise veteran has publicly defended the franchise against claims that it fosters bad behavior, saying that “Alcohol is treated with the respect it deserves” on set, and that “sometimes contestants are asked to stop.”
But the fact remains that it’s ultimately the producers who are in control of the situation; a producer can decide to intervene, or can decide to take a step back and let a situation run its course. Producers are responsible for setting and enforcing the show’s limits, both legal and ethical, when it comes to destructive behavior on set. One of the inexcusable mistakes that happened on Bachelor in Paradise, it seems, is that those with the ability to step in and do something about an unfolding assault allegedly chose not to, in favor of keeping the cameras rolling.
The contestants involved in Bachelor in Paradise are adults who can decide how much to drink or not drink. If one contestant made the decision to assault the other — whether or not he sees it as such — that is also a choice he made. But this incident didn’t happen in a vacuum. If the allegations that crew members were warned that the victim couldn’t consent and failed to stop what was happening are true, they reflect a larger corrosive culture: one that encourages reality shows and everyone involved in them, from the crew members to the contestants to the producers, to get the most salacious material possible while turning a blind eye to common decency.
For decades, conservatives have darkly warned that failing to teach the Western canon of literature to students — that deeming books and plays by dead white guys irrelevant to today’s concerns — would lead to disastrous consequences.
They recently proved their own point.
For its annual Shakespeare in the Park program, New York City’s Public Theater mounted a production of William Shakespeare’s 1599 play Julius Caesar in Central Park — a play that, among other things, strongly warns those who commit political violence, even in service of their country, about the futility of their actions.
But right before its opening night on Monday, June 12, the production was met with conservative outrage, which continued all throughout its short run (Sunday marked the last performance, as planned) and is still going strong. Early in the outrage cycle came the cancellation of two corporate sponsorships. Then, Friday’s performance was interrupted by two protesters, one of whom crashed the stage stage to yell, “Stop the normalization of political violence against the right!" Sunday’s final performance was interrupted by a similar event.
The uproar all stems from one key creative decision: namely, portraying Julius Caesar as Donald Trump.
Even before the production officially debuted, Julius Caesar was drawn into the perpetual outrage machine that powers modern American political media. Right-wing outlets such as Breitbart and Fox News expressed horror over the Public Theater’s particular staging of the play, in which a blond, coiffed politician who resembles the US president — he tweets from a golden bathtub and wears a red tie, and his wife has a Slavic accent — is assassinated in Act III beneath an American flag, by a cast that contains women and minorities. Though the play, being more than 400 years old, never mentions Trump’s name, the resemblance was noted by critics who were present at the show’s previews (which began in May), and their reviews were picked up by the broader conservative media.
“NYC Play Appears to Depict Assassination of Trump,” Fox’s headline read. (Readers had click a “read full article” button, five paragraphs into the story, to learn what the had to is.)
The Daily Caller — which published several opinion pieces in 2016 explicitly linking Trump and Julius Caesar, both fawningly and not — took an innovative angle, drawing on a conservative outrage target du jour in its headline that declares, “NYT Is Sponsoring an Assassination Depiction of Donald Trump.” (The New York Times Corporation is one of Shakespeare in the Park’s corporate sponsors.)
Within hours, two other corporate sponsors, Bank of America and Delta Airlines, pulled their sponsorships. Delta, citing in an emailed statement the “graphic staging” that “crossed the line on the standards of good taste,” elected to end its sponsorship as the official airline of the Public Theater altogether. Bank of America maintained its relationship with the theater but issued a statement ending its sponsorship of the Julius Caesar production because it was presented “in such a way that was intended to provoke and offend.”
The controversy found new fuel later in the week, after a gunman opened fire at a congressional baseball practice in Alexandria, Virginia leaving House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA) critically wounded. In response, many on the right — including the weekend’s protesters — were quick to draw a direct connection between the shooting and the play.
Events like today are EXACTLY why we took issue with NY elites glorifying the assassination of our President
Certainly, there’s a long tradition of outrage in theater, as well as provocative political protest. Private corporations are free to signal their values by pulling sponsorship or advertising from anything they like, whether it’s Bill O’Reilly’s show, Breitbart’s website, or a production of a Shakespearean play dressed up to “provoke and offend” the president of the United States and some of the people who support him. Individuals, too, are free to act as patrons and consumers, supporting both the art and the companies they agree with and speaking against those they find offensive.
But right-wing media outlets’ swift move to offense and outrage over the production — and the uproar that ensued — does call into question how well any of those who are upset grasp the history of Shakespeare and his place in the Western canon, and whether they’re at familiar with Julius Caesar itself.
Because in short, a lot of people have completely missed the point of both the production and the play.
Every summer, the Public Theater — often referred to simply as “the Public” — stages a series of plays at Central Park’s Delacorte Theater under the auspices of its Shakespeare in the Park program. Typically the program features Shakespearean plays and sometimes other, similar classic works (by Chekhov or Ibsen, for instance). Hopeful attendees enter a lottery for tickets, which are free but in very high demand.
How can tickets to such a big production be kept free to the public? In fact, Donald Trump Jr. recently asked this question on Twitter:
I wonder how much of this "art" is funded by taxpayers? Serious question, when does "art" become political speech & does that change things? https://t.co/JfOmLLBJCn
The answer is that most of Shakespeare in the Park’s funding comes from corporate sponsors and private foundations. This summer’s productions also received a portion of their funding from the New York State Council on the Arts (supported by the taxpayers of New York) but not the National Endowment for the Arts, which is supported by federal taxes.
These partnerships benefit New Yorkers who want to see Shakespeare in the Park’s productions, as well as others who visit New York for that purpose, no matter whether they can pay for a ticket — though acquiring a ticket through the lottery, as any New Yorker can attest, is a challenge that favors no man. That means it’s members of the general public who benefit, rather than just elites who typically can afford expensive tickets to high-profile theater in New York.
The Public’s stagings of Shakespeare follow the tradition of most professional productions of the Bard’s work, which honor the magnitude of Shakespeare’s accomplishments by using staging clues to draw connections between his plays and contemporary movements in politics and culture.
In 2016, for instance, the Public produced Troilus and Cressida (set in ancient Greece), as well as The Taming of the Shrew — the latter with an entirely female cast. And so one of the major topics of discussion in cultural circles that summer was whether, and how, the misogyny and subjugation of women that are seemingly advanced by The Taming of the Shrew could be staged in 2016.
Shakespeare’s ability to speak to every time period is considered one of the marks of his mastery as a playwright. As early as 1623, 7 years after Shakespeare’s death, the poet Ben Jonson declared, in his preface to the First Folio (an early collection of 36 of Shakespeare’s major comedies, tragedies, and histories) that the playwright was “not of an age but for all time!”
Jonson was exactly right. Shakespeare’s plays about real-life political figures were never meant to be strict live-action reenactments of historical records for educational purposes. The Bard wrote plays about the history of his own country, England, but he also wrote about major figures from Roman history, in addition to using old poems, myths, and stories as the basis for his work.
Even in his own era, his audiences recognized that a play about a Roman general or a Danish king wasn’t an education in the past, something that had relevance to them only because it happened. Shakespeare was able to capture essential truths about human nature, treachery, loyalty, love, politics, societies, justice, and both the noble and corrupting uses of power in his plays. He wrote about populism and elitism. His plays tell stories about tribalism, and treachery, and honor. For him — as with classic theater in virtually every time and place — plays weren’t just entertainment, but a place to confront people with challenging notions about their own world.
In fact, in Hamlet, Shakespeare points to this function: Seeking to prod the consciences of his guilty, murderous uncle, the Danish Crown Prince Hamlet stages for the king and queen a play that mimics some of the motivations and actions he ascribes to them. “The play’s the thing / Wherein I’ll catch the conscience of the King,” he tells the audience.
This tradition, of leaning on Shakespeare to speak to every age and not just his own, has resulted in or inspired some of the most enduring artistic works of all time. The list is endless, ranging from Orson Welles’s various (and controversial) film and theater adaptations of many of Shakespeare’s plays — which Welles often tweaked, sometimes substantially, to play with their meanings — all the way to House of Cards, which is explicitly based on Richard III (a role the show’s star, Kevin Spacey, played onstage months before the Netflix show premiered) with a hefty dash of Macbeth.
So the timelessness of Shakespeare’s work — and the reason the Bard is considered one of the foundations of the Western canon of literature — is not just that it’s old and has been performed a lot. It’s that he got at something about human nature that seems relevant no matter the time period, place, or circumstance. And thus his work lends itself to endless reinterpretations that always feel relevant, and even pointedly critical.
Which brings us to the Public’s Shakespeare in the Park production of Julius Caesar, and the remarkably ahistorical reaction to it.
The play — which draws on Plutarch’s Lives, from about the second century CE — begins with the triumphant return of the ambitious Julius Caesar to the Roman Republic following his defeat of the sons of Pompey. Caesar is a popular hero whom the common people celebrate, even though they used to love Pompey. And Rome’s politicians fear that if he rises to power, he will become a tyrant and take advantage of the common people, changing Rome from being a republic to being an empire ruled by an authoritarian leader: Caesar himself.
So a band of elite politicians plot to kill Caesar. His friend Brutus is wracked by indecision over joining the plot, but finally decides to put country over friendship and throw in with the conspirators, comparing Caesar to “A serpent’s egg / which hatch'd, would, as his kind, grow mischievous / and kill him in the shell.”
Spoiler alert, I suppose: Caesar is assassinated, though not before uttering the famous line “Et tu, Brute?” when he discovers his friend Brutus among the assassins.
Caesar’s killers are convinced they’ve undertaken this act on behalf of the people and for the greater good of Rome, and not for their own glory. Brutus eloquently proclaims as much to a crowd of commoners, who are at first won over to his side. But then Caesar supporter Mark Antony (in his famous speech beginning “Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears”) turns public opinion against the conspirators by manipulating the crowd’s emotions, and the mob turns violent.
Battles ensue, and ghosts appear, but in the end, even though the conspirators manage to keep Caesar out of power, they lose in their attempt to prevent Rome from abandoning its roots as a republic to become an empire, and they die brutal deaths themselves. Mark Antony, meanwhile, manages to launch himself into a major point of political power.
The tricky part about Julius Caesar is that it doesn’t have one clear “message.” Shakespeare was too keen an observer of human nature and political will to simplify his stories that way. He captured the complex ways in which history tends to twist and turn.
Instead, there are several warnings in Julius Caesar. One is a warning to would-be authoritarian leaders who may be surrounded by people clinging to patriotic ideals and willing to act on them. One is a warning to populists, with the play showing how public opinion is easily swayed and manipulated by charismatic figures. (In a canny move, Shakespeare includes the sad story of Cinna, a poet who is in no way related to the plot against Caesar but who is mistaken for a conspirator with the same name. The crowd realizes the error, but kills him anyway.)
And there’s a warning to those who, like the conspirators, believe themselves to be acting in service of country over their own interests as individuals. Violence begets violence. Scholars have long argued that the play casts their motivations in a less-than-flattering light, with Shakespeare suggesting that just because you think you’re acting patriotically doesn’t mean you don’t have your own private reasons for doing it, and your own drive to gain power. By the end of the play, Antony concludes that Brutus — Caesar’s friend who betrays him — is the “noblest Roman of them all,” and the only one who truly acted in service of the republic. And coming from the mouth of Antony, who has a vested interest in his own power, even that is in question.
Julius Caesar is a political play, one that plumbs the uneasy relationship between power and populism, as well as the conflicts that arise between personal relationships and loyalty to country. It even explores the pitfalls of various forms of government, from democracy’s potential for mob rule manipulated by showy speakers to the potential for personal power seeking in a republic to the dangers of iron-fisted, people-crushing authoritarian rule.
And it’s not as if those concerns were limited to ancient Greece or Rome, or to Shakespeare’s Elizabethan England. So whenever and wherever it’s mounted, the play feels fresh.
In fact, in the play itself, the character of Cassius foreshadows the play’s future to Brutus, declaring in a remarkably on-the-nose statement, “How many ages hence / Shall this our lofty scene be acted over / In states unborn and accents yet unknown!”
That eternal, built-in freshness is why Julius Caesar so attractive to theater companies. As far back as 1770, a production at the Philadelphia’s Southwark Theatre was lauded by one commentator as showing “[t]he noble struggles for Liberty by that renowned patriot Marcus Brutus . . . shewing the necessity of his [Caesar’s] death” — and of course, this was in front of an audience chafing under the rule of King George III, just three years before the Boston Tea Party.
And since the 20th century was a battleground for competing political ideologies, it’s no surprise that Julius Caesar was considered ripe material for innovative — and bitingly contemporary — treatments of the old story.
In 1937, at the age of 21, Orson Welles staged a groundbreaking version with the Mercury Theater in which the set and costumes were specifically designed to make the audience think of fascist Italy and Nazi Germany. In 1973, the BBC produced a modern adaptation of the play called Heil Caesar, ostensibly set in an unnamed country. In 1984, New York’s Riverside Theater Company mounted a production of Julius Caesar set in modern Washington, DC, where America is on the verge of handing its popular leader a lifelong presidency. And a 2012 Royal Shakespeare Company production set the play in a modern African state.
Also in 2012, in a piece in the American Conservative titled “Obama’s Ides of March,” Noah Millman praised the Acting Company’s production of the play, which featured black actors in both the Caesar and Brutus roles, in a DC-esque Rome “rocked by Occupy Rome protests.” Of Bjorn DuPaty, who played Caesar, Millman wrote that “the audience is unquestionably going to read him as an Obama stand-in.” And thus the play worked by “connecting [the play] to ideas that people we know take seriously.”
Millman further compared the conspirators’ rhetoric to the Tea Party’s opposition of Obama, which, he wrote, “partakes of an intellectual tradition that self-consciously traces its lineage back to Brutus: republican as well as Republican, a tradition that includes both Jefferson Davis and Patrick Henry.” Delta Airlines, which dropped its support of the Public’s production, provided partial support for this production. (The Acting Company revived this production just last year, during the 2016-’17 season, with the support of the National Endowment of the Arts.)
And last month, writing about a new production of Julius Caesar at the Crucible Theatre in Sheffield, England, the Guardian’s critic Catherine Love said the version, though set in a contemporary political world, was “deliberately non-specific” precisely because Caesar, Brutus, and Antony could “be anywhere in the world, steering any precarious democracy,” especially amid the current rise of populism.
The Public Theater’s Shakespeare in the Park production seems to have followed in the footsteps of its long list of predecessors, with its tweeting, coiffed Caesar played by Gregg Henry. Brutus is played by Corey Stoll, Antony by Elizabeth Marvel, and Cassius by John Douglas Thompson. The play’s director, Oskar Eustis, says he chose the play for this year’s Shakespeare in the Park program on election night last November.
In his June 9 review of the production, the New York Times’s Jesse Green wrote of its obvious Trump connections, “Its depiction of a petulant, blondish Caesar in a blue suit, complete with gold bathtub and a pouty Slavic wife, takes onstage Trump-trolling to a startling new level.” Several other reviews noted the resemblance as well.
And the play does seem to have some lines lifted straight from 2017, though in truth only three words have been added to the script. One character, Casca, tells Cassius in Act I, while speaking about the commoners, that “If Caesar had stabbed their mothers, they would have done no less”; the production inserts the words “on Fifth Avenue” before the comma, an echo of Trump’s proclamation during his campaign that “I could stand in the middle of 5th Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn't lose any voters.”
The conservative outrage over the Public’s Julius Caesar as read through the lens of right-wing media outlets like Breitbart and Fox seems to stem from the fact that such a Trump/Caesar character is not just depicted but assassinated onstage. On Fox News, Guy Benson said the fact that “he is being stabbed by women and minorities gives it away.”
Certainly, Trump supporters (and perhaps others) can be offended by a depiction of a sitting current president being assassinated, though one might ask (fruitlessly) why there wasn’t similar outrage when the Acting Company did the same with Obama. And there’s no question at all that this production intended to take aim directly at Trump by depicting some of his most well-known characteristics: his wealth, his hairstyle, his affinity for Twitter, and his wife Melania, who is Slovenian.
It’s also reasonable to assume that this production of Julius Caesar, staged in New York City — where the president, despite being born and raised in one of its boroughs and a famous (or infamous) resident of another, received only 19 percent of the vote — functions as a bit of a revenge fantasy, cathartic for both the politically progressive thespians at the Public and a sizable majority of those in the audience.
Is that in bad taste? Perhaps. It’s certainly not subtle. Unlike the aforementioned British production running at the Crucible on nearly the same dates, it’s the opposite of “non-specific.” Trump is being painted as a canny political leader, but it’s definitely him.
You can only read Julius Caesar as a simple revenge fantasy if you don’t actually read the play. And casting a Trump-like character as Julius Caesar does a lot more for him than merely let an audience watch him get assassinated onstage. Just as Julius Caesar is a play with many warnings, a specifically Trump-oriented Julius Caesar contains many warnings and implications — and bafflingly, right-wing media hasn’t bothered to point them out.
For instance, casting Trump as Julius Caesar (which presumably would be supported by those conservatives who think Caesar’s the good guy) suggests that Trump, though portrayed with petulance, is still a charismatic war hero who has earned the love of the common people by vanquishing his enemies — a narrative certainly supported by the president and his own supporters. Shakespeare’s Caesar is a mighty, courageous, determined leader whose own closest friends are so loyal they must deliberate long and hard before deciding to act on principle; loyalty is one of Trump’s most dearly held priorities.
And while Caesar/Trump is assassinated onstage by a group of elite political leaders, some played in the Public’s production by women and minorities, the story of Julius Caesar doesn’t end there. The common people are provoked by Mark Antony to an anger over Caesar’s death that’s so fierce that casualties ensue. The people are loyal to their fallen leader.
But most importantly, Julius Caesar functions as a strong warning to those who might resort to violence for purposes they believe are patriotic. Those who conspire against Caesar set in motion a violent chain reaction that leads to their own deaths, and doesn’t get the results they want anyhow.
Director Oskar Eustis — who is also the Public’s artistic director — points this out in his analysis of the play. “Julius Caesar can be read as a warning parable to those who try to fight for democracy by undemocratic means,” he writes on the Public’s website. “To fight the tyrant does not mean imitating him."
Opponents of the Shakespeare in the Park production of Julius Caesar, if they were familiar with the text, could have seized on the chance this production handed them. For one, it puts Trump in the position of the beloved leader of the people, casting him as a legendary hero. And it warns about the futility of violence against him (something that has new resonance in the wake of controversy over Kathy Griffin’s “beheading” of the president). A canny right-wing response to the production could have praised it for embedding conservative and even Trump-supporting ideas inside the more obvious, arguably even ham-fisted depiction of the president. (National Review came closest to this approach, calling it “boring.”)
For people worried about the decline of the Western canon, the Julius Caesar controversy has delivered a golden opportunity to reclaim its relevance, showing how a careful reading of the play is relevant to leaders and to citizens in every context. It also presents an opportunity to demonstrate that the world’s best literature knows there are no simple solutions to complex problems. For those worried about “Trump derangement syndrome,” the Public’s production offers a way to set up today’s quarrels as belonging to a long, long history of political disputes, and a prime moment to share a warning against violence as a means of change.
But angry right-wing news outlets have neglected to do any of this. Easy outrage gets more clicks than principled stands. High school English class was a long time ago. And — as Julius Caesar itself shows — instructing people to get mad is easier than asking them to think.
So it’s not all that shocking that right-wing media outlets have chosen to trade the possibility of complex and even sly critique for a simple freakout over Julius Caesar showing the assassination of the president, and corporations — fearful of their bottom line — have gone along with it.
And yet, whether or not you think the Public crossed a line with its production of Julius Caesar, there’s some rich — maybe even Shakespearean — irony in the whole saga, something you might even call comedy. Who could have guessed it would be the right-wing outrage machine that delivered the hit on the Western canon this time?
No matter. They’ll get another chance. Shakespeare also wrote a play about an old king with three children among whom he must divide his kingdom. Several of the Bard’s plays, including Julius Caesar, address the perils of mob rule. And he wrote another about a cynical, power-grubbing king scared witless that he isn’t a legitimate ruler — who turns out, in a twist only Shakespeare could imagine, to be the president’s distant cousin.
Pop culture is in the middle of a several-years-long witch moment — an only occasionally ironic, girl-power-inflected, “we nostalgically watch Hocus Pocus” witchcraft moment.
Lana Del Rey is casting binding spells on Donald Trump, and Tumblr teens are curating witch-vibe aesthetics. It’s a moment that is, as Mikaella Clements wrote at the Establishment, “tied up in intersectional feminism, in a desire to reclaim power, and to laugh as [one] does so.”
And every pop cultural aesthetic needs a celebrity avatar, somebody to perform the aesthetic and thus embody all of the contradictions and fantasies and anxieties the aesthetic creates. For the pinup aesthetic of the ’50s, and its attendant obsession with sex and virginity and innocence, that was Marilyn Monroe. For the witch aesthetic, it’s New Zealand pop star Lorde.
Lorde emerged into the pop cultural consciousness in mid-2013, releasing her smash single “Royals” and debut album Pure Heroine right around the time the witch aesthetic was getting off the ground. The ’90s revival had brought interest in The Craft and Buffy back with it. Witches were more popular than Congress. Think piece after think piece emerged about the sudden and enormous presence of witchery. And when Lorde arrived, she was immediately lumped into the trend.
There was the penchant for dark, tentlike dresses and dark lipstick that had Vanity Fair dubbing her “the Queen of Darkness.” (“Sometimes I'll go for a goth-witch vibe,” she admitted to Teen Vogue.) There was the way she moved her hands onstage, like she was casting a spell. There was the time she briefly rebranded Taylor Swift’s girl squad as a “witch’s coven” in an interview, while posing with her arms outstretched in a dead tree, staring into the camera with the face of someone who is preparing to do some very dark magic. (Cosmo dubbed it “a look that can only be described as ‘goth teen witch princess.’”)
Lorde drifted out of sight a bit after her 2014 Grammy wins for “Royals,” but she’s moving back into the spotlight now as she releases her sophomore album, Melodrama (out as of Friday). In the time she’s been gone, the witch aesthetic has only grown more ubiquitous — and Lorde’s witch vibes have only grown more polished. She now looks, Jonah Weiner wrote in the New York Times Magazine, “like an extremely chic witch ready for a night of haunting.”
We are in a pop cultural moment that loves witches, and Lorde is the witch we need.
The witch aesthetic emerged as a simultaneous evolution from and backlash against the aesthetic of weaponized femininity that rose to prominence in the late aughts and early teens. One parody video would famously sum up the weaponized femininity aesthetic as, “You want the wings of your eyeliner to be so sharp they could kill a man, allowing it to drain his blood so you may use it to summon the goddess Athena.”
More seriously, a Tumblr user called it “girl shit that cuts,” and elaborated with examples: “vicious maidens vicious in their maidenhood, vicious mothers vicious in their motherhood, vicious seductresses vicious in their seduction, women who make the tenets of their aggressive conspicuous femininity cruel.”
The idea of weaponized femininity is that girls can take all the things the patriarchy throws at them — all the limitations and boundaries inscribed on their bodies and their ways of being, all the things the patriarchy uses to hurt women and girls — and turn them into things that hurt other people. It’s Emily Thorne on Revenge tossing her perfectly curled hair before she crosses out another face with her red Sharpie. It’s Peggy Carter knocking someone out with poisoned lipstick. It’s a power fantasy.
It’s also an inherently limited power fantasy. Critics fretted over its problems: Weaponized femininity is aggressive, but it also works within the boundaries of the patriarchy instead of trying to destroy it; the aesthetic is both high femme and fairly white as a default, and that’s exclusive.
Helpfully suggested by the ’90s revival, the witch aesthetic emerged as both a corrective and the next logical step forward for weaponized femininity. The witch aesthetic is, like weaponized femininity, a power fantasy for women: If you are a witch in a fairy tale, you have more power than anyone else in the story; certainly more power than the princess does. And like weaponized femininity, there’s an undercurrent of anger to the witch aesthetic: You don’t declare yourself a witch if you don’t think the world has screwed you over a little bit.
But as Clements notes in her fantastic history of the Tumblr witch, the driving motivation of the witch aesthetic isn’t to enact violence so much as it is to recognize how ridiculous the world is. She writes:
Formed seething and seeping from a swamp of ways to tackle a world that seems skewed against you, the Tumblr witch is resolutely unfriendly and intractable. She’s something to meld to when the only guides are moving up and out. She offers new ways to burrow in and down.
And I like her nastiness, her paranoia, her bitter laughter. “Take a bath and moisturize well,” the self-care guide soothes us. The Tumblr witch howls: “Mercury is in retrograde, lock your doors and don’t go out!!!”
Witch aesthetics also have more flexibility than weaponized femininity does. You don’t need to go high femme to get witch vibes. You don’t even really need to go goth: Almost any aesthetic can be turned into a witch aesthetic if you try hard enough. Clements quotes a Tumblr witch and Etsy shop owner on what she thinks of when she thinks of witch vibes:
Goth witches in black maxi dresses and capes, Wiccan girls in flowy boho looks with handfuls of rings and jarred herbs . . . sea witches with mermaid hair and tattered shipwreck looks, prairie witches in calico dresses magicking tumbleweeds across the dirt, pink-haired mall witches in anime buns and belly shirts.
Witch aesthetic is less a specific wardrobe than it is an attitude, an expression of female power that doesn’t depend on the male gaze to do its work.
The witch aesthetic lets girls proclaim that they and their performances of femininity — whatever form those performances take — are powerful, and a little angry, and that they are laughing about it. And they can do it with whatever kinds of clothes they’re already interested in.
Lorde’s witch aesthetic is specifically goth witch, all black clothes and dark lipstick and wild hair; you wouldn’t be surprised to see her in a cape. It insists on its witchiness in a way the aesthetics of Lorde’s pop star cohorts rarely do: Taylor Swift, certainly, would never call her girl squad a witch’s coven in an interview.
That’s because the power fantasy Taylor Swift is working with isn’t a witch fantasy. Swift in her “Blank Space” video — tapping her red nails together as her hapless boyfriend chokes and cooing, “Darling, I’m a nightmare dressed like a daydream” — is performing weaponized femininity.
Lorde smearing her lipstick across her face and writhing her way out of a white tent as she performs “Yellow Flicker Beat,” snarling, “I got my fingers laced together and I made a little prison and I’m locking up everyone who ever laid a finger on me,” is performing witch aesthetics.
Lorde’s witchiness gives her a specific kind of girl power vibe. It lets her laugh off criticism about ways in which she fails to live up to traditional standards of femininity. Her dancing isn’t sexy or pretty — it’s witchy, and she’s cool with that. “i totally know i look like gollum when i perform, so it's cool,” she told Reddit breezily.
Her aesthetic can be anarchic, and it frees her to focus on specific images rather than prettiness. Her clothes don’t have to be immaculate, her hair can be shaggy, her lyrics can be angry, and she’s not sacrificing any power when she makes those choices. When she performed on Saturday Night Live in March 2017, she was shrouded in what looked like an oversize antique lace nightgown, with matching headdress, because she wanted to look like a moth, she said. (Moth witch vibes.) She got rave reviews.
Lorde is the celebrity avatar of the witch aesthetic, and as such, she stands for the fantasy it represents: of female power without objectification, of the freedom to be angry, of ironic detachment from the rest of the world.
It’s the fantasy of finding an escape hatch from the things the world demands of women — the enforced prettiness and sweetness and sexual availability — and turning the rejection of those tropes into power. That’s the power fantasy at the bottom of the witch aesthetic, and that’s the power fantasy that Lorde embodies.
Rough Night knows what people have come to expect from a movie bachelorette party, and for a while, it delivers exactly that: a group of hot college friends dance through a blur of tequila shots while sparkly pink penises bob like alien antennae on top of their hair. But then, in a shocking twist, they get tired and head back to the house they’re using for the weekend, shrug their way into comfier clothes to hang out by the pool, pass around a bottle of wine, and debate the merits of ordering a stripper and/or pizza sooner rather than later.
Such an ordinary scenario really shouldn’t feel revolutionary. But in hard R-rated comedies, getting to see women — even ones as star-powered as Scarlett Johansson, Zoe Kravitz, and Kate McKinnon — be so casually themselves is still so rare that it’s downright jarring.
For director and co-writer Lucia Aniello, though, it was just instinct.
As Aniello told me last weekend while shuffling into hotel slippers and getting comfortable herself, what she and her writing partner Paul Downs, who co-wrote Rough Night, have always been interested in — as seen in everything from their web sketches to some of Broad City’s best and most bizarre episodes — is showing real people dealing with surreal situations. “Real crazy shit happens, but people react in the way you would react,” Aniello said. “That is, to me, what makes things the most interesting.”
So yes: Things in Rough Night do go truly sideways after that casual pool hangout thanks to some drunken mistakes and a striptease gone deathly awry. But Aniello and Downs (who also plays Johansson’s sweetheart fiancé) are still confused to hear anyone describe Rough Night as inherently edgier than any other R-rated comedy. “When people are like, 'wow, this is edgy,' it's because there are women in it smoking pot and being horny,” Downs shrugged.
"They do swear casually,” Aniello allowed. “It feels more unrealistic and stilted to me [otherwise]. That's the looseness we have in our movie, is we let them talk just the way people talk.”
Which, again, shouldn’t feel like nearly as huge a deal as it does. But Rough Night stars an unusually woman-centric cast and is only the third R-rated studio comedy directed by a woman in 20 years — a fact Aniello only found out a few weeks ago, at which point she wished she were more surprised. Aniello and Downs have always written casually crass women, but now that their romp of a bachelorette movie was going to be a major studio release, the conversation about it rapidly spun out of their control.
“Maybe part of what feels 'R' about it is that it's like, R for realistic,” Aniello mused at one point. “Hyper-realistic women. Maybe that's the thing that is most shocking." And then she wrinkled her nose, disgusted — but again, not exactly surprised.
If you love Broad City, chances are you love an episode that came from the eerily in-sync mind-meld that is Aniello and Downs’s comedic partnership.
The two have been working together for over a decade now as “Paulilu” on sketches and webseries like “The Real Housewives of South Boston” (in which Aniello’s Masshole roots get a wicked fun showcase) and “Diary of Zac Efron” (in which Downs practically weaponized his signature sincerity in service of portraying Efron’s oblivious charm offensives).
But their collective big break came when Amy Poehler brought them on to help shape Broad City, a new series from New York comedians Abbi Jacobson and Ilana Glazer (who also stars in Rough Night). Even though Glazer and Jacobson’s partnership is the heart of the series both onscreen and off, Aniello and Downs’s episodes launched the show into weirder and more ambitious directions. “Paul and Lucia were such important architects for Broad City,” Poehler told me via email. “They have such distinctive, imaginative and hilarious voices."
Just some of the classic Broad City moments to come out of their heads include Garol (season one’s yogurt-eating gatekeeper of North Brother Island), Blake Griffin’s willingness to experiment with dynamic sexual stretching in season three, and Abbi’s foray into pegging her longtime crush.

While they’ve always juggled writing, directing, and performing duties depending on the project, Aniello and Downs’s seemingly effortless writing process is what tended to propel their comedy to the next level. I’ve talked to a bunch of writing teams, and I can’t honestly say I’ve heard of one that works quite like this one does. After completely outlining their project — whether it’s an episode of TV or a feature film — both Aniello and Downs write their own version of each and every scene, show them to each other, and find a way to combine their individual visions from there.
"It forces you to not be in your head,” Aniello insisted. "And I know what tickles him, so it makes the voice really specific.”
Downs agreed, comparing their singular process to a particularly fun game of timed chess. “I get to just try and surprise her and make her laugh,” he said with a smile, “and she does the same for me.”
What they found is that they both love and excel at what Downs calls “big, pants-down moments that are also grounded, and have heart." So when, for instance, Broad City’s Abbi decides to try a strap-on for the first time, it’s not just played for laughs; it’s played as the monumental moment in her sexual history that it is.
And for Rough Night, sure, they wanted to have a whole lot of slapstick fun, but they also wanted to tell a story about this group of friends who were so incredibly close in college, and 10 years later, have drifted to the point where they struggle to click back into the same kind of rhythm. Even the movie’s game-changing death is played as hyper-real, with Aniello switching to handheld cameras to capture everyone’s horror.
That’s why the idea that Rough Night might be sold as “edgy” due to its female-driven cast is one that frustrates them both. “To us, this seems totally normal,” Aniello said. “It's based on ourselves, it's based on how people we know talk and act ... it's just supposed to be funny and real."
Before I first talked to Downs, he had been at a morning television interview with the rest of the cast. They tried to talk about a running joke in the movie where the women use the code “do you need a tampon?” to ask each other for help when creepy men are making them uncomfortable — and were floored when their host balked at letting them use the word “tampon” on air. (Surprising no one, Glazer immediately doubled down and used it anyway).
But beyond being surprised, Downs was also just kind of exhausted by the exchange, since it’s exactly the kind of thing Rough Night has been crashing up against in its life as a studio comedy, as people try to wrap their heads around the fact that it’s happening at all.
Something else that came up after making the movie — and something that Aniello and Downs are straight up baffled by — is that Rough Night was constantly compared to and pitted against other women-led comedies like Bridesmaids even before it came out. There’s even been some speculation over whether or not Girls Trip — the upcoming road trip movie starring Queen Latifah and Tiffany Haddish — will “beat” Rough Night, as if it should be a competition.
"Now people are like, 'uh oh, which is gonna win?' And it's like, 'who's gonna win?’” Aniello said, rolling her eyes. “Anybody who goes to the movies and laughs! That’s who’s gonna win.” (And for what it’s worth, she “can’t wait” to see Girls Trip.)
“We're not trying to take anybody on,” Downs said, then grinned, “other than the patriarchy.”
But the idea that female comedies should be in competition because they’re rare is, unsurprisingly, a real frustration for anyone who just wants to write good jokes for funny women.
"No one's saying, 'Hey Will Ferrell, did you know Kevin Hart also has a movie coming out this year? Is that a trend? What do you think of that? Is your movie the white version of his movie?’” Aniello said. “They don't have to deal with any of that. They just get to make movies. And sometimes they make money, sometimes they don't, but guess what? They still get to make another one."
Like just about every aspect of the entertainment industry, comedy has always been a boys club first and foremost — but it’s also been one of the slowest to change. And while there were more women directing R-rated comedies in the ’90s (like Betty Thomas’s Private Parts or Tamra Davis’s Half Baked), in recent years, that hasn’t been the case outside of independent film (like Leslye Headland’s excellent Bachelorette or Gillian Robespierre’s Obvious Child).
In fact, Sharon Maguire’s Bridget Jones’s Diary (2001) was the last R-rated studio comedy to be directed by a woman until Nancy Meyers stumbled into an R-rating in 2009, because she dared to show Meryl Streep smoke a joint onscreen in It’s Complicated. Otherwise, the hard-R comedy has been a total no-woman’s land.
Aniello, for her part, only found out about that depressing statistic a few weeks ago. Not that she wasn’t aware of the depressing dearth of women in comedy directing; that fact was part of the reason she’s kept prioritizing directing. "I like it, but also, it felt like there was a demand for more women in comedy directing,” Aniello said, “and I felt like I could supply that demand."
Comedy, like most industries, can be incredibly insider-y; people tend to turn to the people they already know — and when the people in charge are predominantly straight white men, that’s usually who ends up getting the chances. Again: It took Amy Poehler throwing her weight behind Broad City to make it happen, and for Aniello to get her TV directing debut, besides. (Poehler not only calls Aniello’s direction “precise and flexible,” but the woman herself “a badass.”)
"[Aniello’s] very skilled, and there aren't a lot of women who are given the opportunity,” Downs said. “So when you are really good and you're getting the opportunities, it's hard not to take those." But as Aniello was quick to point out, they’re also determined to pass along the same chances to other people who might not have been able to crack the industry otherwise. After all, she said, “the reason we're in this position is because some women helped us ... you gotta try to help people whose voices you know are important."
So Aniello’s determined not to waste the momentum she’s got going now, both for her sake and the others who might come up after her. Being involved with comedy for years and knowing the sporadic history of not just woman-directed comedies, but big studio comedies that dare to give women more than 10 lines, makes her aware of the high-profile gamble she’s taking. But to her, there’s something kind of thrilling about that, too.
“There's something overconfident to say ... this story, or these characters, these actresses, these jokes all deserve to be blown up on a big screen,” she said. “There's something brash about that that's usually reserved for white men."
Still: She’ll admit that once a major studio got involved, the idea of failing became a real fear.
“I knew I had to be cool, casual, and confident, because comedy lives and dies by the air that it exists in,” Aniello said, “but it can't be too much fun, because then it's like, lazy and not in line with the storytelling ... and it needs to be a really, really good movie, because something like this hasn't happened in a long time."
So while Aniello is breaking ground with Rough Night, she isn’t exactly counting on it being the definitive crack that will break the industry wide open for women. After all, Bridesmaids came out six years ago and was directed by a white man and it’s still the go-to example of explicit women-led comedies being able to succeed. But Rough Night is still a step forward — and one that will hopefully not remain a piece of “can you believe this shit?” trivia for long.
Eugene Lee, a set designer for Saturday Night Live, is the man SNL producer Lorne Michaels sometimes calls “the heart of the show.” Now 78 years old with an Emmy and three Tony awards (he also designs sets for Broadway shows like Wicked and Sweeney Todd), Lee started working on the long-running sketch series in 1975 when he was a young man living on a boat and SNL was just debuting.
For 42 seasons and nearly 500 episodes, Lee has built set after set for the show every week, working through the nights to design effective, unobtrusive sets that can be ripped down almost immediately after they go up.
Related
I recently spoke with Lee over the phone about his work with SNL. He’s an old-fashioned raconteur: He peppers his conversation with references to “the old days” and the kind of New Jersey jokes that would have been at home on SNL in its earliest episodes. He’s a walking encyclopedia of institutional knowledge: Having worked on every season of a show that has become a comedy icon, he knows it inside and out.
Over the course of our conversation, Lee walked me through the hectic, sleepless nights that come with working on SNL, how to put together the thousands of moving parts that make up a successful Broadway set, and what to do when you accidentally order the wrong color of llama.
Our conversation has been lightly edited for length and clarity.
Walk me through the process of building sets for SNL. When in the week do you find out what you’re going to have to build?
It’s very simple at the moment. There’s a general read-through scheduled on Wednesday at 3. We read the scripts, and then we wait for the producers in question to decide what they would like to produce.
Once they’ve decided, we have the director come in, and between the various designers and the director, we try to decide where these various sketches might fit into the studio. We eventually get the writers involved. We talk to everybody. It’s usually kind of a craziness.
The way it always has worked on Saturday Night Live is that the writers produce their own pieces. It’s a great show that way for writers, because they learn a lot. If they have special effects, they have to go talk to those people. Costumes, same thing. Set design? Well, they have to come talk to set designers.
We have to figure out what they want. Some writers are clearer than others. You have to ask them everything. Sometimes they don’t [say] whether it’s night or day. Sometimes they say it’s a restaurant, but they don’t get into the details.
And then, guess what? They’re gone! Boom! Room empties out!
We look at each other, and we decide who might draw things. We draw it up by hand, in the old-fashioned way. By this time it’s 9 o’clock, 10 o’clock. We’d be lucky to get out of the building by midnight.
As a hangover from the old days, we eventually send someone to the shop [where set pieces are constructed] to explain things. Communication [back then] wasn’t so good — this is no longer true, but remember, there was no fax machine, there was no cellphones, so things were a little simpler when we started. We’ve been doing it for so long.
The set decorator goes out the next day [Thursday] with the prop people, and they prop the furniture and the pictures and whatever. Joe [DeTullio, a production designer] goes to the shop, and he organizes the construction. Leo [Yoshimura, another designer] and I usually go to the studio. He gets in at 6 am; I get in at 7. He likes to come early. It’s the best time of the day. It’s nice and quiet. Things we didn’t finish drawing, things we want to make more clear, we work on that. We figure out if there’s backdrops to order. If we make them, we used to paint them all, but now we do them with computer printouts.
Also happening at the same time: The musical guest’s equipment is being loaded in. We go on camera at roughly 1 o’clock and rehearse the music. We do it many times. Then we do promos, a few quick little promos.
After the promos, we rehearse. Sometimes sketches are being changed, they’re being rewritten, but they decide what we can do at the time. We don’t have the set for it, but we just show the director how much size he has to work in so he doesn’t shoot off.
Let’s say we finish around 9, 10, 11, that area. Overnight comes the night crew, a kind of throwback to the live days at NBC. It’s a crew that starts around 5 o’clock and works all night in the building. They work on Jimmy [Fallon] and Seth Meyers, also two sets I designed [for Fallon’s Tonight Show and Meyers’s Late Night, both of which also tape at 30 Rock].
Whatever has been built by that time is shipped in at night [to studio 8H, SNL’s famous berth within 30 Rock] and set up by the night crew. But they don’t get all of it, and it comes not painted. It comes with no doorknobs. In the early years — since I’ve been there so long, and NBC had a number of different shops since then — they used to paint everything in the shop, and then they wrapped it in brown paper so it didn’t get messed up, and then they sent it in. That didn’t last too long. It wasn’t terribly cost-effective.
We get in, and you never know what’s going on. Particularly in the political years, every time you turn on the TV, there’s some new problem. People getting shot in the park. There’s always something going on that’s changing. And with this president, it changes all the time.
Often there’s things in the schedule that the writers haven’t worked out yet. So we work on what we can do, you know?
Friday is kind of a hard day. We have gotten more scenery, and we get painters. We work on Friday late. It’s lucky that we get out of there by midnight.
You get a little tired. That’s the hardest part of it. It’s a hard schedule.
Friday night, the painters, they stay on late, because it’s the only time they can get into the studio and move the equipment to the side if they want to paint the floor — we often paint a lot of the floors. They work all night. It’s a good show for painters.
Lorne [Michaels, SNL’s producer] always has a meeting late on Friday. Not many come, just a few: the director, the head writers, a few writers. The purpose of that meeting is to see if we can actually do the show the way it’s laid out in the studio. Can we get from this sketch to that sketch? There’s all kinds of conflicting things: the costume department, the wig department, people have makeup issues. That meeting happens late. Usually I don’t walk out of the building until 1 or 2 o’clock.
Saturday we come back and we dress the sets. We do new sets if there’s new ideas — things have a way of changing if there’s new ideas, which is okay with us. Sometimes you just get it built in the shop, and it’s standing up, ready to ship out, and it gets cut. It’s gone.
It’s like theater. We do a technical, just like we would on Broadway or anyplace else, a run-through of the show that has within it any technical issues: if someone gets tossed through a wall, if someone does this or that, if you get a lot of water on you, whatever it is.
We come back with an audience at 7 o’clock and do a complete show. It’s usually long by 15, 20 minutes. We also at this time figure out if our assumption about how things are laid out is actually working. The makeup and costume people say, “We need more minutes, we need this, we need that.”
It’s kind of like organized confusion. Which is kind of nice, actually. I kind of like it.
We do the dress rehearsal. We wait around. Three or four pieces for sure get cut right then and there. I wait around until we know for sure what the show is.
Since I live in Rhode Island, I have a longtime driver, Sam. Sam picks me up at 11:15, 11:30 at 30 Rock and drives me home. Of course, someone is always there in case there’s a last-minute disaster.
And that’s a week.
And how many sets are you doing per episode?
It’s hard to say. Ten or 12. Two or three get cut.
You’ve been at SNL for pretty much the entire span of the show.
I got hired because Lorne saw a Broadway play of mine. He was looking for a set designer, and he saw Candide on Broadway. I’d won a Tony for it, and it was a very hot show at the moment, when Saturday Night began.
I was living out of a sailboat in Rhode Island. They just called me, and the next thing you know: 40 years.
How has the show changed in the time you’ve been there?
As a general thing, from show one to now, they want more scenery, not less. They also want the scenery to be more realistic, like movie scenery. If you look at the first few years, things were a little simpler back then. It’s not a good or bad thing.
Movies affect us. They have great detail. It’s just gotten more real. So the capacity of the audience [to suspend disbelief] has taken a little hit because of that.
What else has changed? There are so many people now. In the first year, there was, what, seven cast members? So you knew them all more intimately. It’s not a bad thing. It’s just like anything that’s been on a long time. It’s nice to get new people, because new people bring new ideas about things. It’s good that way.
The only thing that makes it bearable at all is that it’s live. I like Jimmy and I like Seth’s show, but those shows are not live, okay? [On SNL] we actually do it live.
It’s sometimes kind of difficult. Someone made a videotape this year: We had to do a very complicated change in the middle of the studio. We had to go from Putin’s office to the beginning of the show. It was a big set and it was an important set, so we put it in the middle of the studio. It looked impossible to change live. The crew just said, “Well, we’ll try to do it.”
Someone made a little video of it, and it looked insane. At the last second there was someone onstage, and it was like, “GET OFF THE STAGE, GET OFF THE STAGE! GO FASTER! JUST STOP WHAT YOU’RE DOING!” It was a kind of craziness, which is kind of fun.
Live is good. If it’s not live, then you always get the chance to go back and mess with it, and then it’s like, “Well, if we did it again it might be better.” Which is terrible. Live is the only salvation.
Is there a set you particularly liked that stands out in your memory?
I don’t have favorites, really. “Church Lady” was kind of fun. Looking at it now, it’s really simple, just some painted stained glass windows on black velour.
I always liked “Wayne’s World”: a real simple basement, with a furnace on one side and an icebox and a crummy sofa. The prop guy found some funny stuff to hang on the walls.
The thing about it is, the scenery shouldn’t get in the way. It doesn’t matter how good you try to make it. That does not usually affect whether it gets on the show. If it cost a fortune to do, and we’ve propped it all and painted it all and did the best we could, and then, in the dress rehearsal, no comedy? Gone! It’s kind of heartbreaking sometimes, because those things usually never come back.
How is the process of designing sets for SNL different from the process of designing a set for a Broadway show, where you have much more time and space to work with?
I’m really a theater designer. The television thing just happened accidentally. And with theater, it’s all about the transitions. That’s all that it’s about. You can make it look like anything, but the transitions have to look seamless.
If it’s a hit like Wicked, it goes every place on the planet. So it’s been unbelievably documented. And if someone’s playing in London and they want to come and play in New York for a week or two, they can. The set’s exactly the same in London as it is here. The props are exactly the same. If the director occasionally has little ideas, if we change something in one company, it ripples through all the companies everywhere.
There’s an old-fashioned quality about Saturday Night Live that is kind of nice. We have this thing where, if we shoot in the hallway, we have a llama, Abe Lincoln in a top hat, and a chorus girl. We have forgotten why we do this. We just do it. We get a script, we see it says, “They’re shooting in the hallway,” the next thing we do is call the llama people. Last year the llama came once and it was the wrong llama, the wrong color. We had to send the llama back and get a different llama.
We used to have something, it must have been in the first years. The design department had a cow, a white cow with black spots, soft, with foam rubber inside it. We used to hang it above sketches that we didn’t like, and at the end it would just fall down.
Broadway is just different. I like theater. I just opened a little play; it’s in previews now. [Outside of the theater world, I was also] working on that Barry Diller project that at the moment has been frozen by a federal judge, Pier 55.
Why was it frozen?
It’s like New York. [Diller’s] wife, who was a self-made millionaire, I guess, and Barry Diller, who’s a billionaire — but he’s a good billionaire, I think — they gave money to build a city park, more money than any park ever in Manhattan.
It instantly got sued right away. Everybody was suing everyone. Hey! It’s Manhattan. That got settled, and it was about to start work. They had come to me because there was a space about the size of the football field, just offshore of the Hudson [that they wanted Lee to design]. Then suddenly some judge stopped it.
It was for “environmental reasons.” The funniest thing I read was that “it blocks the view of New Jersey.” We get a medal for that, don’t we?
I may work on that anyway, a little bit. Who knows?
It’s always better to be busy. [SNL is] doing four shows in August, just “Weekend Update.” They said to me, “We need a set designer and an assistant, and that’s all we’ve budgeted, because there won’t be any scenery. It’ll be simple. Do you believe that?” Nope! Don’t believe that! It won’t be true! There’ll be suddenly the need for Putin’s office.
I feel lucky to do the show, I really do.
In the lead-up to this season of Twin Peaks, co-creator David Lynch, who co-wrote and directed all 18 hours of the miniseries, said that it wasn’t just a season of TV. It was an 18-hour movie.
Often, when I hear a comment like this, it sets off alarm bells. TV seasons aren’t typically able to get by on just a single story for as long as they run, and even a show like Stranger Things, which had only eight hours to fill, still had to do a lot of plot stalling in the middle. TV shows that earn the “X-hour movie” label are usually ones that cleverly hide how episodic they really are, series like The Wire and Breaking Bad, where every hour of the show is a small piece of a larger puzzle but a complete piece unto itself nevertheless.
But Twin Peaks is tackling the “X-hour movie” descriptor in a very different way, which is to say that it’s basically taking the plot of a Twin Peaks movie and streeeeeeetching it ouuuuuuut over 18 hours. If you think of a typical three-act structure (and assume it neatly divides the story in thirds — which it might not), then we reached the end of act one at the end of episode six, and we’re just heading into the early portions of act two as “Part 7” begins.
And, intriguingly, the episode contains some hints of this stretched-out approach, moving with a momentum and purpose the series hasn’t always had since Cooper escaped the Black Lodge and assumed the life of Dougie Jones. Leads are pursued, questions are answered, and Evil Cooper gets out of prison.
But there’s still time for tangents, like a scene of a guy sweeping a floor to the tune of “Green Onions,” or a lengthy bit where Ben Horne and Beverly attempt to ascertain the location a strange ringing sound that’s emanating from the Great Northern. (Might it have something to do with the return of Cooper’s room key to the hotel? I think it might!) Lynch and Twin Peaks co-creator/writer Mark Frost aren’t tackling the “18-hour movie” as one long story but as many long stories, all running parallel, and you never know which one might take over the hour.
Just as the anti-Dougie takes had reached fever pitch with last week’s episode — in which he drew ladders and staircases all over a bunch of insurance files — “Part 7” turns the story over to Twin Peaks’ other characters, whether that means checking in on the various plot threads set up in Twin Peaks or spending a lengthy amount of time with Gordon, Albert, Tammy, and Diane as they look into the case of the Evil Cooper.
Thus, when Dougie turns up, with only about 20 minutes left to go in the episode, it allows the hour to provide a more concentrated dose of the guy, which works well. In particular, it only underlines what might be the most intriguing question about him: Why does no one seem particularly concerned that he apparently has forgotten how to speak English or function as a human being?
I’m a Dougie fan, but I can also recognize him as a plot stall — a way for the series to keep the character of Dale Cooper from getting to Twin Peaks before everything else is ready for him to arrive. Yet because Dougie so directly ties into some of the themes that animate this season of the show, like the nature of identity, or how we become the people we are, I’m enjoying what he’s up to.
Still, the way the guy leaped into action when attacked by the assassin (with some help from his wife — Naomi Watts remains a scream in this), and the sudden vision he had of the talking tree from the Black Lodge while subduing said assassin, suggest that he’s much closer to snapping out of this state than you might expect.
And as goes Dougie, so goes Twin Peaks. “Part 7” was filled with characters having revelations that were either years or moments in the making. The pages Hawk found in the bathroom stall door, for instance, were confirmed as missing pages from Laura’s diary (presumably hidden there by her father), with a direct tie to the message Annie Blackburn left for Laura in Fire Walk With Me.
Similarly, Diane’s meeting with Cooper’s evil doppelganger was an eerie scene filled with teases of secrets yet to be revealed. What happened between Diane and Cooper the last time they met? We’ll find out later — and we might even find out which Cooper she had such a fateful encounter with as well. (In general, Diane is a shot in the arm for the show, if only because Laura Dern knows how to give Lynch and Frost’s dialogue the acidic bite it sometimes needs.)
All of these things together give “Part 7” the feeling of great import and great forward momentum, even as it has time for, again, scenes of people sweeping the floor. “Part 7” doesn’t speed things up that much. It just provides a few trickles of information that give the story a little nudge in a different direction.
Even as I write all of the above, I’m aware of how easily it could be construed as either a long series of complaints about or an apologia for this new season of Twin Peaks. And yet I don’t mean it as either — at this point, I’ve more or less accepted Twin Peaks: The Return for what it is, and I’ve come to love its open willingness to zig precisely when the audience is hoping it will zag.
When, say, Gordon tried to explain to Tammy why he’s so troubled about Evil Cooper saying “yrev” instead of “very” a few weeks ago, he did so by attempting to tell her about the mystical properties of her own fingers — which is the sort of glorious nonsense that sets this series apart but also the sort of thing that might leave you rolling your eyes if you’re looking for anything like an actual explanation. (Though how have you made it this far in Twin Peaks if that’s the case?)
Despite the fact that it has so many mysteries sprawling all over the place, Twin Peaks is yrev, very good at making sure you take all of it in the spirit it’s intended. I find it hard to imagine the show’s audience getting to the end of its 18th hour and erupting in fury that not everything was explained, simply because the show thumbs its nose at the idea that conventional explanations could ever be satisfying.
It leans, instead, on emotional payoffs — or at least the promise of them. Now that Evil Cooper is out of prison and Regular Cooper (still masquerading as Dougie) appears to be on the cusp of revelation about his true identity, it seems more likely than ever that the miniseries is headed toward some sort of confrontation between the two, most likely in Twin Peaks itself. But it’s building to this so deliberately that every little step toward that denouement feels like a major victory in and of itself.
For instance, with every week of the show, we spend a little more time in Twin Peaks, as the series teases out what happened to various characters we haven’t seen just yet. (We still haven’t seen Audrey, though, which is starting to feel like a deliberate withholding strategy. At least we heard her name in this episode.) This storytelling conceit also gives the growing sense that Twin Peaks itself might have been tapped into some mystical strangeness, but it was simply another tip of another iceberg in a whole world of weird.
That’s why hours like “Part 7” are necessary — they give the sense that the show is headed somewhere, even if it’s taking its time getting there. You can watch it and try to puzzle out its weird clues, or you can simply enjoy its all-pervasive atmosphere, or you can let yourself be swept along by the emotional undercurrents. But hours like this are necessary to all of those approaches, if you’re going to feel like the show has somewhere to go.
Make no mistake, however: This isn’t a suddenly plot-heavy hour of TV. It’s just plot-heavy for Twin Peaks. It’s still weird and wonderful and warped, with all sorts of strange little bits and pieces around its edges. It’s still the show where characters will have a relatively straightforward meeting — about the identity of that headless corpse found way back in the premiere — while a dark, strange figure shambles along in the background and the soundtrack burbles ominously. Twin Peaks only works if it feels like a normal TV show that’s being haunted by something hard to explain. Of all of the hours of this miniseries, “Part 7” comes the closest to achieving that ideal.
Every Sunday, we pick a new episode of the week. It could be good. It could be bad. It will always be interesting. You can read the archives here. The episode of the week for June 11 through 17 is Showtime’s four-part miniseries The Putin Interviews.
The most telling moment in The Putin Interviews, director Oliver Stone’s four-hour conversation with Russian President Vladimir Putin, recorded over the course of nearly two years, comes late in the second hour.
Stone is trying to get Putin to say whether he does or doesn’t like then-presidential candidate Bernie Sanders. Putin demurs entirely, but offers up a theory of how power functions.
Should Sanders become president, Putin says, he would suddenly realize the vast weight of the American bureaucracy that existed underneath him. He might make some changes to the US on a domestic level, but he would ultimately be unable to change that much — the person at the head of the state matters less than the centuries of power the state has accumulated and will protect at all costs. People aren’t responsible for what happens; the vast structures surrounding them are. Look at Barack Obama, Putin suggests. He sincerely wanted to close the Guantanamo Bay prison, and did he? No. You can’t fight the state.
This is telling for two reasons. The first is that it, if true, explains Putin’s motives in regards to the United States in the time since that interview was conducted in 2016. But the second reason is even more telling. This isn’t just how Putin sees [insert US president here]. It’s how he sees himself: as a conduit for the vast sweep of history, guided less by his own political beliefs and desires than by forces even he can barely understand.
The knock against The Putin Interviews is that it’s a bit of hagiography on the part of Stone, who’s the kind of reflexive old lefty who sees the US as the root of almost all of the world’s ills and, therefore, anyone who opposes the US even mildly as a necessary evil to push back against the American-imposed darkness.
Regardless of how much you agree with this point of view, it’s animated nearly all of Stone’s films and documentaries, both good (JFK) and not so good (W.).
And it’s not a bad framework for a scripted film. In JFK, for instance, the idea that the US power structure is so entrenched that it will create a byzantine conspiracy to remove one man who dares oppose it even slightly becomes a vivid portrayal of the country’s darkest self. You don’t have to believe that JFK conspiracy theories are literally true to believe JFK is true, in other words. At his best, Stone gives us a way to discuss these fears we have about our country’s true aims.
But in a documentary — even a documentary with aims of propaganda — that framework works less well, because it becomes just as simplistic a frame for reality as “US good, everybody else bad.” Of Stone’s documentaries, his 10-part 2012 Showtime series The Untold History of the United States probably came closest to blending his worldview with a truly compelling nonfiction film. But even there, Stone often went in for tit for tat — sure, the Soviet Union might have done this bad thing, but the US also did this bad thing.
It worked there as a way to try to jar Americans out of a post-Cold War complacency, a belief that we might have done some bad things in that period, but it was all justified in the name of beating back the Soviet menace. But it works less well in The Putin Interviews, which too neatly glosses over plenty of things that Putin is doing to his own people in the name of painting him as a reasonable critic of the US.
This is particularly egregious when the film turns to, say, Russia’s treatment of its LGBTQ citizens, or its frequent military incursions into former Soviet republics like Ukraine and Georgia.
Stone will suggest that critics find Russia’s anti-LGBTQ laws overly harsh, and then Putin will say, “Oh, hey, I don’t really agree with people who are gay, but we don’t persecute them either.” But Stone doesn’t otherwise provide evidence to the contrary. He just suggests it exists, then lets Putin respond to it, within a framework that has already written off most critics of Russia, especially those in the US media, as untrustworthy.
What’s most frustrating about this is that it’s clear Stone doesn’t intend for the film to be a direct celebration of Putin. He’s cagier with Putin than I expected, given the prerelease hype, and he’ll occasionally pounce on one of the leader’s contradictions. He also films Putin, frequently, from jittery, off-center angles, in ways that make you question not just the man but the presentation of the entire interview itself. (My favorite choice in this regard is Stone’s decision to let you hear his Russian-to-English translator softly murmuring over most of Putin’s answers.)
But Stone simply isn’t a good enough interviewer to make this a valuable exercise. He leaves obvious follow-up questions dangling, and he’s too indebted to his original vision of the project — as a sort of “let’s figure out who this man is, instead of who we’ve heard he is” biography — to really roll with major world events, be they the Syrian conflict or accusations of Russian meddling in the 2016 election. The events depicted in this documentary are fluid, and Stone isn’t good enough at pivoting to match them.
But as with all Stone projects, even the worst ones, it’s hard to simply dismiss The Putin Interviews. As a journalistic enterprise, it’s basically worthless, and as a filmmaking enterprise, Stone has done far better. There are times when I was simply tempted to write off the whole thing as a cagey interview subject getting one over on a not terribly experienced interviewer.
But I’d always return to the idea introduced in the very early portions of the film, when it was clear Stone wanted to demythologize Putin a bit — to make him less of a god-emperor and a Bond supervillain. He begins with a quick, short biography of Putin, placing him in the context of both Soviet and Russian history, and Stone keeps returning to these biographical details throughout, like when he suggests that Putin’s desire to possess the Crimean city of Sevastopol is due to the fact that his father was stationed there during the war. (Putin merely chuckles at this suggestion.)
I’m sure there will be people who watch this documentary and believe Stone went too easy on a figure who threatens the globe, or at least US hegemony over it. They are probably right. Even removing foreign policy from the equation, there is plenty to critique Putin on when it comes to his governance of his own country, from the way he’s turned it into a de facto authoritarian dictatorship to the aforementioned problems with LGBTQ rights to the complete inability of opposition parties to gain a toehold against him.
But somewhere in the midst of all of this, I was reminded of a coffee shop I used to visit, and a patron of that coffee shop, who spent long hours every night braying the tale of how thoroughly Putin had played the West, what a brave and strong leader he was, and how Obama had better get out of the way of the coming Russian century. The Putin he talked about sounded less like a human being and more like a long-lost king, reawakened and brought to our reality to guide us into some new, beautiful kingdom.
Putin is not that. But he is also probably not the root of all of the world’s evils. Americans were very good at belittling each other’s political opinions and believing in demonstrably false news stories long before Russian hackers allegedly got involved in the first place. Putin might put his thumb on the scales here and there, but so do leaders of nations as powerful or more powerful all over the globe. The scales, it sometimes seems, are made to be tipped.
Thus, I think, there’s value in exposing him as a man, as someone who tries to write off his worst tendencies as part of history’s epic sweep, or as part of being a creature of his particular political system. Putin might be a man with political values I wildly disagree with, and I might find the specter of further Russian involvement in world affairs disquieting. But knowing that he’s a human being, not a bogeyman, has a value of its own. At this moment in history, it’s still edifying, for a moment, to look at the man and realize he’s only that.
The Putin Interviews is available on Showtime Anytime.
The Carmichael Show, an NBC sitcom that routinely tackles difficult subjects and social issues, was supposed to air an episode on the evening of Wednesday, June 14, that deals with the aftermath of a mass shooting. But earlier that day, very real mass shootings occurred in Alexandria, Virginia, and San Francisco. NBC ended up pulling the episode, titled “Shoot-Up-Able,” in the wake of those shootings and airing a completely unrelated one instead — a move that Carmichael Show creator and star Jerrod Carmichael says he understands but vehemently disagrees with.
On this week’s new episode of Netflix’s Chelsea talk show — which was taped the day of the shootings, after NBC made the call to pull the episode — Carmichael brought up the decision himself to express his disappointment that it wouldn’t air at the exact time when he feels it could have been the most helpful.
"I thought that [the] episode would have an opportunity to talk about these tragedies in a meaningful way, to really lend itself to conversation," Carmichael said. "A lot of times when things like this happen and someone wants to talk about it in an outlet that's not the news, people will say, 'Too soon.' But when is it not too soon? Unfortunately, these things happen constantly, and it's a thing that breaks all of our hearts."
“Shoot-Up-Able” doesn’t depict a mass shooting, but instead focuses on the complicated feelings that Carmichael’s character grapples with after having survived one. “When something like this happens, we realize that we all suffer from fear of going out, fear of enjoying your life,” Carmichael continued. “We all suffer from the pain of knowing that families have lost loved ones. And that’s what the episode is about.”
While Carmichael insisted during his Chelsea appearance that he does understand the thinking behind NBC’s decision, he also argued that the network did “a disservice” to its viewers. “What it says is that you don't think America is smart enough to handle real dialogue and something that reflects real family conversations and something that feels honest and true and still respects the victims," Carmichael said. "We handled the episode with as much love and integrity as we could. To pull that is just criminal. It does a disservice to the viewer, it does a disservice to you, it does a disservice to all of us."
The Carmichael Show, which is now in its third season, has made a name for itself by taking on subjects that other family sitcoms rarely touch. Previous seasons have devoted episodes to abortion and Bill Cosby’s legacy, and an upcoming episode in season three will air the n-word multiple times as the Carmichael family debates its use. So it’s not surprising that The Carmichael Show would take on mass shootings, nor that Carmichael himself would be disappointed that NBC pulled the episode and cut off the very thing the show values most: an open, honest dialogue about hard topics that many are often too afraid to touch.
The Carmichael Show currently airs Wednesdays at 9 pm on NBC; seasons one and two are streaming on Netflix, and previous episodes of season three are streaming on NBC.com and Hulu. Carmichael’s episode of Chelsea is streaming on Netflix.
After jurors in the Bill Cosby trial had deliberated for about 31 hours, they told the judge they were deadlocked. The judge told them to “keep trying,” but on Saturday morning the jurors declared that they were still deadlocked, and the judge declared a mistrial.
The jurors had heard five days of testimony from prosecution witnesses, and a six-minute defense from Cosby’s lawyers. They had heard transcripts from police interviews in which Cosby admitted to giving sedatives to women with whom he wanted to have sex.
They had listened to Andrea Constand testify that Cosby gave her what he initially claimed were “herbal pills” to “take the edge off” — the pills turned out to be prescription sedatives — and then assaulted her while she was incapacitated. They had listened to Kelly Johnson testify that Cosby drugged and assaulted her too.
And they had heard suggestions from Cosby’s defense team that probably these women slept with Cosby consensually, and are pretending he assaulted them for fame and money.
After reviewing the five days of testimony from the prosecution, six minutes of testimony from the defense, and closing statements, the jury has been unable to come to a decision. In the face of enormous and compelling evidence against Cosby, they can’t decide whether or not he is guilty of sexual assault.
Related
To be clear, Cosby’s defense team doesn’t have to provide evidence to back up its story. The burden of proof in our judicial system is on the prosecution, not on the defense. All the defense has to do is create a reasonable doubt in the jury’s mind that Cosby is maybe not a serial rapist.
His defense team appears to have successfully created reasonable doubt for at least one juror, enough reasonable doubt to deadlock the jury. And it did so by repeating the myths of rape culture: that women routinely lie about sexual assault for fame and money, that if you talk to your rapist after he attacks you — as Constand did before reporting her experience to law enforcement — that means you wanted it, that if you visit a man’s home alone, you are asking for it.
Related
These ideas have all been ripped apart ad nauseam for decades by feminists and by social scientists, but they persist because our culture needs them: They make it possible for powerful men to hurt women with impunity and get away with it, and our culture loves powerful men and hates women. That’s what it means to live in a rape culture. That’s why we award convicted rapists with Oscars and insist that women who accuse famous movie stars of hurting them are lying. That’s why Cosby’s jury has been unable to convict him.
Related
Bill Cosby’s trial is deadlocked despite the evidence against him and a shockingly minimal defense because our culture has already stacked the deck in his favor.
After six days of deliberations regarding accusations that comedian Bill Cosby drugged and sexually assaulted a woman, a jury in Pennsylvania could not come to an agreement on whether he drugged and sexually assaulted Andrea Constand, resulting in a mistrial, the New York Times reports.
On Thursday, the jury told Judge Steven T. O’Neill they were deadlocked, but he urged them to continue working on the case. Now with a hung jury, the prosecution will have to decide whether to retry the case involving the alleged assault on Constand, a former Temple University employee who first made the allegations more than a decade ago.
Cosby, now 79, faced three charges of aggravated indecent assault, all related to one incident that took place in 2004 in his Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, home. While the case was initially seen as a long shot to go to trial due to its tumultuous history, relentless media attention, and the looming statute of limitations, it did.
Constand is one of dozens of women who have accused the comedian of sexually assaulting or harassing them, but because of statutes of limitations, most of their cases (some women allege Cosby assaulted them more than 40 years ago) couldn’t go to trial. The women’s stories have forced Americans to confront the idea that Cosby may not be the silly but responsible dad that his Cosby Show and standup persona suggested — resulting in a public reckoning that intersects complicated themes of race, celebrity, and our society’s shifting attitudes about sexual consent. Here’s how Cosby, Constand, and the dozens of women who accused the comedian got to this point.
Nearly 60 women have now come forward to say Cosby either sexually assaulted them or attempted as much, in incidents occurring from the early 1960s, when Cosby was a young comedian and TV star on the rise, to 2008. Many of the allegations against Cosby follow similar patterns: The women say Cosby offered them a beverage — sometimes a cup of coffee, or sometimes a glass of wine or liquor, sometimes to chase down a pill. Then, they say, Cosby sexually assaulted them while they were impaired or even unconscious (though some women have said they were not drugged when Cosby attacked or groped them).
Related
The women span social classes and occupations — from servers, aspiring actresses, and lawyers to celebrity models Beverly Johnson and Janice Dickinson. In Constand’s case, she was the director of operations of the women’s basketball team at Temple University. Cosby, a Temple alum and former student-athlete, kept close contact with the school and its athletics program. By 2002, he was acting as a mentor to Constand.
In January 2004, Constand was visiting Cosby at his home, seeking career advice, when she told Cosby she was feeling stressed. That’s when, she says, he gave her three pills, telling her they'd take the edge off. When she asked if they were herbal, he reportedly said, "Yes. Down them."
After taking the pills and drinking wine at Cosby's urging, Constand testified, her vision became blurry and her speech slurred. Cosby then went on to grope and digitally penetrate her, and also guided her hand to touch his genitals, she said. Hours later, Constand said, she awoke in his house with her clothing askew. Cosby greeted her in a robe, gave her a muffin, and walked her out of his house.
Constand reported the ordeal to local authorities in 2005, a year after it was alleged to have taken place. Cosby was questioned, and claimed the sexual acts were consensual. (Even before this incident, Constand said she refused Cosby’s advances from him two other times but wrote it off as flirting.) When the news of Constand's allegations first went public in early 2005, California attorney Tamara Green appeared on the Today show shortly after with a similar story about how Cosby gave her pills to help with a fever, and then sexually assaulted her in her apartment.
Cosby denied both allegations, and then–Montgomery County District Attorney Bruce Castor said Constand's case lacked enough evidence to move forward. Constand, who had moved back to Toronto at that point, filed a civil complaint against Cosby. Thirteen women had come forward to Constand and were mentioned in her case as Jane Doe witnesses.
Some of the women who had provided testimony for Constand's case even came forward publicly, telling reporters their stories of what Cosby had done to them. These stories got some coverage, but it never quite broke through to the national consciousness. Cosby and Constand settled the case on undisclosed terms in 2006.
But nearly a decade after that case was settled, a joke went viral. Standup comic Hannibal Buress skewered Cosby with a not-so-subtle reminder that the elder comedian had been accused of raping or sexually assaulting several women.
“I guess I want to just at least make it weird for you to watch Cosby Show reruns,” Buress joked to a Philadelphia audience after a bit about Cosby and respectability politics. “Dude's image is, for the most part, a public Teflon image. I've done this bit onstage and people don't believe me; people think I'm making it up. I'm like, ‘Bill Cosby has a lot of rape allegations,’ and they go, ‘No, you do!’ No! ... That shit is upsetting. If you didn't know about it, trust me, if you leave here and Google ‘Bill Cosby rape,’ that shit has more results than ‘Hannibal Buress.’"
The allegations had laid mostly dormant until that moment at a Philadelphia comedy show in 2014. In the eight years since Constand settled with Cosby, America’s general understanding of sexual assault, rape, consent, and power had evolved, and the public appeared less willing to ignore the idea that “America’s dad” could be capable of sexual assault.
As Kathy McGee, a former radio host and one of Cosby’s accusers, told the Hollywood Reporter, "For 40 years, I didn't say anything because I thought it was just me. Imagine a girl in the early 1970s trying to make it in Hollywood and have a career. He was in his heyday when it happened. My common sense told me nobody would believe me."
Initially few did, as those who brought complaints against Cosby found. But after the seal was broken three years ago, more women came forward to add their names to the list of those who said Cosby had abused them in one way or another, creating a striking avalanche of individual stories.
In July 2015, Constand filed a motion just weeks before Pennsylvania’s 12-year statute of limitations would have run out for this case. Prosecutors didn’t pursue the case a decade prior. But a devastating deposition Cosby gave during Constand’s civil suit against him was made public by the New York Times that summer. There, he admitted to drugging her with Quaaludes and then having sexual contact with her, though he still maintained that contact was consensual. The deposition provided an avenue for prosecutors to pick up the case.
At the trial this month, Constand’s attorneys called 12 witnesses over five days last week. Though 60 women have made allegations against Cosby, spanning decades, only one other woman was allowed to testify at the trial aside from Constand. The woman, known as Kacey, was an assistant to Cosby’s former agent Tom Illius in the 1990s. She testified that Cosby invited her to his hotel room to discuss her acting career, according to the Guardian’s Molly Redden. There, Kacey said, Cosby urged her to swallow “a big white pill,” and then sexually assaulted her.
“I was very afraid because I had a secret about the biggest celebrity in the world at that time,” Kacey said on the stand. “And it was just me and my word against his. I was afraid.”
Constand herself took the stand, explaining that she had trusted Cosby as a university trustee, donor, and alum. That was until Cosby gave her three pills that debilitated her. She recounted the story as she had previously, though this time, on the witness stand, through tears.
“I was frozen and I was very limp,” she said through a cracked voice, reports the Guardian, “and so I wasn’t able to fight in anyway. I wanted it to stop.” After she awoke from being drugged, she said, she “felt humiliated and I was really confused because of what I remembered, and I just wanted to go home.”
Through attorneys and spokespeople, Cosby has vigorously denied the accusations, but since the allegations hit their peak, he has hardly spoken publicly. In a rare interview earlier this year, he told Sirius XM’s Michael Smerconish that he wanted avoid getting in the way of his legal team, which is why he would not testify.
“I just don’t want to sit there and have to figure out what I believe is a truthful answer to whether or not I’m opening a can of something that my lawyers are scrambling,” he said. In line with his defenses in the years since the civil case against Constand, Cosby added that the women making allegations against him were trying to take advantage of him, in order to gain money and fame.
The closest the jury got to hearing his side of the story was his unsealed testimony from the 2005 civil case, where he disclosed that he did give women Quaaludes with the intention of then having sex with them.
And after the prosecution presented its case for a week, Cosby’s defense took just six minutes to do the same on June 12 — to the shock of trial watchers — followed by a dramatic, two-hour closing statement, according to the Washington Post.
Cosby’s attorneys, through cross examination, attempted to discredit Constand, her mother, Kacey, and any other witnesses that came forward. Cosby attorney Angela Agrusa questioned inconsistencies of Constand’s timeline, including details of how Constand and Cosby met, and how she had initially told police that her contact with Cosby was “rare and brief.” During another point of Constand’s testimony, Redden reports for the Guardian, it was clear Agrusa was attempting to imply that Constand’s relationship with Cosby was “romantic in nature,” since they had private dinners together:
“You were sitting by the fire. The room was dark. There was a nice mood,” Agrusa said, summarizing Constand’s 2005 statement to police.
“I don’t know what that means,” Constand said.
“The lights were dim and the fire was going,” Agrusa continued.
“I don’t really remember how dim the lights were, but I did have to eat my dinner,” Constand replied.
Cosby’s defense attempted to portray his relationship with Constand, who is an out lesbian, as consensual (the defense could not bring her sexual orientation into the case, because doing so would violate Pennsylvania's rape shield law). Cosby’s defense team also questioned the political motives of Montgomery County District Attorney Kevin Steele. He won his seat in 2016 by campaigning against his predecessor Bruce Castor, who decided not to pursue Constand’s case in 2005.
When Buress inadvertently revived the allegations, it was in the context of criticizing Cosby’s famous finger-wagging messages urging black people to live up to the work of the civil rights movement by pulling up their sagging pants and putting an end to out-of-wedlock births.
“It’s even worse because Bill Cosby has the fuckin’ smuggest old black man public persona that I hate,” Buress said in 2014. “He gets on TV, ‘Pull your pants up black people, I was on TV in the '80s! I can talk down to you because I had a successful sitcom!’ Yeah, but you rape women, Bill Cosby, so turn the crazy down a couple notches. ‘I don't curse onstage!’ But yeah, you're a rapist, so … I'd take you saying lots of ‘motherfuckers’ on Bill Cosby: Himself if you weren't a rapist.”
While the case has been about women coming forward to disclose their experiences with sexual assault, to Cosby’s defenders it’s also been framed as a case about another black man being publicly hung out to dry. Smerconish brought up Cosby’s daughter Ensa’s defense of her father in an audio clip, in which she said, “I strongly believe my father’s innocent of the crimes alleged against him, and I believe that racism has played a big role in all aspects of this scandal.” Following up by stating that his accusers are “both black and white,” Cosby responded:
Well, let me put it to you this way. When you look at the power structure and when you look at individuals, there are some people who can very well be motivated by whether or not they're going to work. Or whether or not they might be able to get back at someone, so if it's in terms of whatever the choice is, I think that you can also examine individuals and situations and they will come out differently. So, it's not all, not every, but I do think that there's some.
Like his daughter, several other Cosby defenders have echoed this concern. As a black entertainer, after all, Cosby was a trailblazer on television and through comedy. Comedian Eddie Griffin told Vlad TV that he saw it all as part of a larger effort to tarnish black men in the entertainment industry. Rapper Waka Flocka Flame echoed this, calling the situation "an organized lie." So did Cosby Show co-star Phylicia Rashad, and, as Jenée Desmond-Harris wrote for Vox, her attempt to clarify her statements only made her sound more callous to the women involved.
Whoopi Goldberg, another pioneering black comedian and one of the co-hosts of The View, initially defended Cosby outright. More recently, she's been more neutral about the criminal accusations but still has extended words of support to Cosby and his wife, Camille.
By last year, Cosby had lost major points with Americans overall — 61 percent had an unfavorable view of him, according to YouGov. Among black Americans, it was more polarized: 35 percent approve of the decision to prosecute him, and 28 percent don't.
"It’s difficult for black people to accept the idea that Cosby could be guilty," University of Connecticut professor and New Yorker contributor Jelani Cobb told Goldie Taylor, who wrote a controversial Ebony magazine cover story about Cosby’s downfall last year. "Certainly the long history of prominent African Americans being torn down in public lends itself to the idea that Cosby is being targeted because of his wealth and influence."
For many, the acts Cosby was accused of were incomprehensible, especially for someone who had built a career on a fun yet somewhat wholesome family image, while also pushing for education and upward mobility for black Americans. So, yes, part of what people are debating is whether Cosby is guilty of the overwhelming number of sexual assault or attempted sexual assault claims.
But the mountain of allegations and the public debate that followed were also about those who have seen Cosby rise as an elder statesman and a cultural icon, and the reluctance to tear down a black man who has done so much to build himself up while helping others.
As my colleague Constance Grady wrote for Vox this week, Cosby’s defense team was able to plant the seed that Constand’s accusations were simply not credible; that women lie about being sexually assaulted regularly; that she hesitated to report her story to law enforcement, therefore casting doubt. It’s the reason the jury couldn’t come to a decision after five days of arguments from Constand’s side and less than 10 minutes from Cosby’s.
As far as what’s next for Cosby and Constand, it will be up to prosecutors to decide whether to bring this case to trial again. If they do, it will no doubt spark yet another wave of controversy.
Every weekend, we pick a movie you can stream that dovetails with current events. Old, new, blockbuster, arthouse: They’re all fair game. What you can count on is a weekend watch that sheds new light on the week that was. The movie of the week for June 17 to 23 is The Loving Story (2011), which is available to stream on HBO Go and digitally rent on Amazon, Vudu, iTunes, and Google Play.
This week marks the 50th anniversary of Loving v. Virginia, the landmark Supreme Court case that struck down laws against interracial marriage in the United States.
When Mildred and Richard Loving’s case came before the Supreme Court, 21 states — including Virginia, where the couple lived — had “anti-miscegenation” laws on the books. The Lovings were rural Virginians; he was white, she was of African-American and Native American descent. They married legally in the District of Columbia and returned home to Virginia, but were awoken in the middle of the night by a flashlight, wielded by a sheriff, who had entered their home and demanded to know why they thought they could be together in the same bed. Eventually, the judge offered them a deal: If they left Virginia for 25 years, they wouldn’t go to jail.
They moved to DC, had children, and began raising them there. But eventually, the Lovings decided to return to Virginia to be near their families. This led to a set of cases as well as jail time that, eventually, attracted the attention of the ACLU, which had been searching for a case that would test and overturn such laws in the US. And in 1967, they did just that.
A film based on the Lovings’ life, Jeff Nichols’s Loving, came out in 2016, with Joel Edgerton and Ruth Negga in the leading roles. That film is well worth watching. But in an HBO documentary titled The Loving Story, the couple tell their own story, in their own words.
The most remarkable thing about the Lovings may simply be their reticence to be in the spotlight — they steered clear as much as possible of being the “face” of a cause, trying mostly just to live their lives quietly. As a result of their reluctance, most people knew more about Loving v Virginia than the Lovings.
So The Loving Story is valuable as a fuller, more expansively humanized portrait of the couple than you could get from the newsreels and history books. (The film forms the basis for the portrayals of Richard and Mildred in Nichols’s film.)
But it’s also just a strong and riveting look at one of the most important and consequential Supreme Court cases in American history. Striking down anti-miscegenation laws was an important blow to segregation and a victory for civil rights activists in the 1960s. And it has also been cited in many cases since, including Obergefell v. Hodges in 2015, which made same-sex marriage legal in the United States.
And the couple at its center were just two rural Virginians who wanted to live their lives with each other and their children, quietly, without threat of violence or separation by the law. They don’t seem to have ever thought they’d be famous — but their courage in the face of opposition had huge consequences for many.
Watch the trailer for The Loving Story:


This week, Bill Nye — TV host, science enthusiast and author of Everything All at Once — answers our questions.
What’s the first piece of media you consume every day?
SN First Up by Jeff Foust of SpaceNews. I also watch CBS morning news. I like to watch the “Eye Opener — Your World in 90 Seconds," and stay tuned until they get into the health issues.
Name a writer or publication you disagree with but still read.
I disagree with virtually everything I’ve ever seen on Fox News, but I watch it anyway.
Who is the person who has most influenced the way you think?
My father.
When was the last time you changed your mind about something?
Every day I change my mind. On a bigger level, I changed my mind about genetically modified foods about a year and a half or two years ago. I used to think that genetically modified food was not provably safe for the environment, but I’ve changed my mind about it because of the speed and accuracy that we can now assay or sequence genomes of plants. It’s amazing how fast we can get genomes of plants, and it is remarkable how diligent seed companies are about their seeds. Farmers want the latest seeds; it’s a very competitive business.
What’s your worst intellectual habit?
Jumping to conclusions. We all create hypotheses in undisciplined fashion, and then you have to go back and be intellectually disciplined.
What inspires you to learn?
Everything! How can you not be inspired to learn about things? I am curious and I try to be observant, although I miss a lot of stuff. Maybe that’s my worst intellectual habit; I miss a lot of things when I’m observing.
What do you need to believe in order to get through the day?
I’m optimistic. If you’re not optimistic, you won’t be able to get anything done.
What’s a view that you hold but can’t defend?
That I don’t have any views I can’t defend. I can’t defend that; I just believe it.
What book have you recommended the most?
The Elements of Style by William Strunk and E.B. White.
You can read last week’s edition of 9 questions with Lisa Randall here.
The news was tense and even more tragic than usual this week, but on the internet, things were as close to a sunny summer vacation as they’ve been in a while. Perhaps the most massive controversy to hit the web was a pointless french fry debate, followed by typical hemming and hawing over Twitter’s latest redesign. All in all, it was sort of a relief to have relatively few politicized firestorms blowing up our feeds.
In case you were off enjoying the weather or following Senate investigations, here’s what you may have missed.
Twitter rolled out an Instagram-inspired redesign on Thursday, but people on Twitter mostly still want the two changes Twitter doesn’t seem willing to make — allowing users to edit tweets and banning Nazis and harassers. The square-to-round overall design change — square icons, avatars, and reply boxes all retouched with rounder, smoother looks — prompted many funny visual comparisons. (It also prompted a few reminders that the third-party Twitter dashboard Hootsuite still exists.)
We asked for an edit button and got circles  #NewTwitter pic.twitter.com/f2VCez1iaE
Old Twitter vs New Twitter pic.twitter.com/0kDh9qOEoY
Of course, if this redesign goes the way of previous redesigns, we’ll all have forgotten what the old design looked like within days anyway.
Prominent queer Twitter user Anthony Oliveira, an academic and contributor to the popular film website Birth Movies Death who tweets as @meakoopa, attracted attention across the broader Twitter community this week after his account was suspended. The suspension sparked outrage among queer Twitter users and allies, particularly because the public felt it was yet another example of Twitter’s longstanding perceived tendency to ban and suspend victims of harassment rather than the perpetrators.
Hey, unsuspend @meakoopa's account. It's a travesty that homophobes constantly abuse us and tell us to kill ourselves. and nothing happens
As The Verge reported on Tuesday, Oliveira’s suspension may have been due to his retweeting of, and subsequent kerfuffle with, a straight couple who were mocking Pride month. Oliveira mentioned their real names — which may have been misconstrued as a doxxing, even though the couple had listed their real names on other social media accounts. But the exact reason why he was suspended remains unclear.
Oliveira claimed that Twitter had given him no reason for the suspension. In an email to Vox, a Twitter spokesperson confirmed that Twitter does communicate with all its suspended users but declined to say whether a reason had been provided to Oliveira. As of late Tuesday evening, Oliveira’s account was restored.
twitter suspended me bc I was impolite to straight people mocking the Pulse massacre.they have not apologized and I will not apologize.
The backlash over Oliveira’s suspension spawned another harassment debacle. Twitter user @pettyfemme, who formerly tweeted under @thecaroldanvers and then @deathbyliberals until both of those accounts were suspended, posted a thread about what she views as Twitter’s backward approach to harassment. She described having her previous accounts repeatedly brigaded — assaulted en masse — by groups of alt-right supporters and 4chan members who harassed her and repeatedly reported her accounts to Twitter for violating its policies. The results of the brigading? Twitter suspended her.
In fact, after @pettyfemme explained that 4chan members had brigaded her previous accounts, noting that they were currently doing the same thing to her new one, her @pettyfemme account was suspended as well.
aaaaaaand now the quoted account has been suspended
Like Oliveira, @pettyfemme eventually had her account restored. But without more information available from Twitter on what kinds of behaviors prompt suspensions in these specific cases, it’s usually left up to the public to assume the worst — and that can’t be doing Twitter any favors.
Unsurprisingly, both @pettyfemme and Oliveira were frustrated by their experiences, which left them wondering if they should quit using Twitter altogether.
this has taught me I've given twitter, an explicitly anti-gay corporation, too much power over my messaging. Time to find a stabler home. https://t.co/RNoi0pabAC
Most of us don’t have time to do more than block or mute trolls and move on. But if someone is trolling you while you’re at the airport and you’ve got four hours to kill because your flight was delayed, you could always consider Renee Sherman’s response to being sent a Pepe the Frog meme over public wifi from a user bearing a Pepe avatar.
This is Jacob. He sends people Pepe memes as threats via AirDrop in the airport. Then when approached about it, doesn't have shit to say. pic.twitter.com/bW5xIPnQqE
Sherman, who is a self-identified “reproductive justice” advocate and black feminist, repeatedly snapped Jacob’s photo and tried to question him about why he did what he did. Alas, Jacob’s answers weren’t even close to satisfying: He alternately deflected, played dumb, professed innocence, and then refused to answer the question because, per Sherman, “the airport was not the time & place to talk about why he sends strangers racist memes.”
So all in all, it was a thrilling but anticlimactic confrontation. Perhaps the real takeaway here is don’t allow people to send you unsolicited files through Apple AirDrop.
On Tuesday, the veterans group VoteVets, a progressive veterans lobby that claims to represent 500,000 military veterans and families, tweeted that the US president had blocked it on Twitter.
As Vox’s Sarah Wildman noted, the group “was trying to get under Trump’s skin, and seems to have succeeded.” The block followed a number of antagonistic tweets from VoteVets’ account calling Trump and his various political actions “a threat to national security.” Trump’s response of blocking the group sparked outrage from leftists who saw it as hypocritical.
In 2014, the GOP was outraged when Obama saluted two Marines with a coffee cup in his hand. In 2017, Trump blocks vet groups on Twitter. https://t.co/9S1gbomjup
How quickly we forget.
What’s a Milkshake Duck? What isn’t a Milkshake Duck might be the better question.
The concept of a Milkshake Duck was born last year, via this particularly observant tweet from @pixelatedboat:
The whole internet loves Milkshake Duck, a lovely duck that drinks milkshakes! *5 seconds later* We regret to inform you the duck is racist
The Milkshake Duck is an apt stand-in for that now-familiar internet phenomenon — the overnight celebrity who’s suddenly revealed to be problematic for one reason or another. On the internet, anyone from Ken Bone to Gary from Chicago can become a Milkshake Duck, crossing the line from beloved fave to problematic issue all within a single news cycle.
In other words, as long as we have troubling pasts (or futures) waiting to be revealed, we’re all Milkshake Ducks waiting to happen.
As Jay Hathaway explains at the Daily Dot, the new trend of labeling things as “Milkshake Duck” has been growing for a while. It got a huge boost recently when video game developer Tim Soret, whose new project The Last Night made a splash at last weekend’s E3 gaming conference, was revealed to have been a Gamergate supporter. Soret in 2014 had claimed to stand “against feminism” — though he declared during the post-E3 backlash to “completely stand for equality and inclusiveness.” He also said he designed The Last Night to “challenge techno-social progress” — leading some to turn the game artwork itself into Milkshake Duck parodies:
pic.twitter.com/fSCPdpK815
Mentions of the Milkshake Duck ran rampant as a catchphrase deployed in response to the Soret backlash — and coincidentally, it all happened on the one-year anniversary of the original Milkshake Duck tweet.
we are now milkshake ducking at speeds heretofore unseen by man
Ordinarily, business deals threaten few ramifications for internet culture, but the reach of Verizon’s Yahoo acquisition, finalized this week, could bring major changes to Tumblr, long one of the web’s culturally richest yet least-understood communities. The buyout officially turned the previous merger of Yahoo and AOL into a hybrid organization called Oath (yes, “ ... Oath”), and has already meant layoffs at Yahoo subsidiary HuffPost — as well as, reportedly, at Tumblr.
As business writer and marketer Andréa López wrote in a Tumblr post on Wednesday, the implications for Tumblr are significant — because “even at its most popular, Tumblr is not just underestimated, but under-observed.”
Tumblr tends to get covered breathlessly by cool-hunting advertising/marketing press (whose understanding of Tumblr is minimal and therefore vulnerable to becoming PR stenography of whatever Tumblr ad exec happens to be in power at the moment) and heartlessly by public market tech reporters who compare everything to Facebook scale, and wave away Tumblr’s immense cultural influence (which punches way above its weight).
In other words, the media has a longstanding habit of devaluing Tumblr as a niche website for rich hipsters, extremist progressives who are somehow creating fascism, and gross teen fangirls, all without taking into account the site’s diversity of age and opinion, and the sheer range and quality of its typical contributions to what’s happening on the internet, from “The Dress” to the greatest boy band conspiracy of our lifetime. All of this has made it difficult to explain the magic and uniqueness of Tumblr to investors in the past, and, as López suggests, could make things harder for the site without the protective umbrella of Yahoo to shield it from more profit-driven scrutiny.
“Whether you’re tracking bad stuff like account suspensions, DMCA take-downs, or good stuff like ad revenue and account growth,” she concludes, “we should mark this date on a chart.”
In our efforts to chronicle highlights in internet culture, we almost missed the Reddit exit, earlier this month, of one of the site’s power contributors — the rare user whose participation on the oft-polarized site was universally beloved. Redditor AWildSketchAppeared has spent the past five years randomly appearing in comments to illustrate things that other redditors have said in passing. Among his greatest hits include an epic art battle widely viewed as one of Reddit’s greatest moments and having a sketch of a guinea pig featured on CNN.
The redditor, who is reportedly a 26-year-old man, spent a week or so alerting the Reddit community that he would be abandoning his role as the site’s resident drive-by sketch artist due to increased real-life time commitments and “other long-term artistic projects in the works.” When he finally said goodbye on May 30, he did so with fan art of the hero of Cowboy Bebop in his famous departing moment. “And here it is: Likely the last sketch I'll ever post on Reddit,” he wrote. “It's been a wild ride, guys and girls. Thanks for everything.”
And so we send off one of Reddit’s greatest into the night — or at least to other corners of the internet, since you can still follow him on Snapchat. (Or was he a Milkshake Duck all along? Let’s pretend we can have nice things on the internet, just this once.)
Welcome to the weekly Vox book link roundup, a curated selection of the best online writing about books and related topics. Here’s the best the internet has to offer for the week of June 11, 2017.
Ford has form in taking hostile criticism extremely personally: after a poor review from Alice Hoffman, he told the Guardian that he took one of her books into the backyard and shot it (then mailed it to her); decades after Larry McMurtry tore apart his first novel in 1976, Ford was driven to “‘explain’ to him my feelings about his review”. (McMurtry couldn’t remember writing it).
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of the authors whose books I have reviewed for not hunting me down to spit on me.
Though Ms. Smith often takes on current social and political issues in her poetry, she doesn’t plan to use her position as poet laureate to advocate social causes, she said. Instead, she aims to be an advocate for the medium itself and to instill the same awe she felt when she read Dickinson’s “I’m Nobody! Who Are You?” as a girl.
“Rather than talking about social issues, I want to give more readers access to more kinds of poems and poets,” she said. “Poems are friendly, and they teach us how to read them.”
Many books cover heartbreak well and there are plenty on obsessive love and of course there are the many comedies that end in marriage, but I’m after another sort of story. No Disney endings. No platitudes. No montage sequences. The book I’m still looking for would encase the reader so completely in feeling that reading it could transform the reader into a lover or beloved, a book so utterly consuming and wrecking that it would make the quotidian seem suddenly foreign, just as love has the power to do.
Happy reading!
Two protesters interrupted the Public Theater’s Shakespeare in the Park performance of Julius Caesar on Friday night, with one of them crashing the stage to yell, “Stop the normalization of political violence against the right! This is unacceptable!"
The production, which features a Donald Trump-esque figure in its title role, has been a target of right-wing outrage since before its official opening on June 12. Because the 400-year-old play sees Julius Caesar assassinated by members of the Roman Senate — and thus, in this production, it’s the Trump-esque figure who meets an untimely demise — the Public Theater’s staging has drawn condemnation from news outlets such as Breitbart and Fox News and lost the support of two corporate sponsors as a result.
Related
The incident on Friday night was filmed by one of the two protesters, Jack Posobiec,  who posted video footage on Twitter:
BREAKING: Julius Ceasar Gets SHUTDOWN pic.twitter.com/ITgfMR0tHE
The woman in the video has been identified as Laura Loomer, who, according to the New York Times, is a self-described “right-wing investigative journalist and activist.” As Loomer approaches the stage, Posobiec yells and gestures toward his fellow theatergoers, calling them Nazis, likening them to Nazi propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels, and seemingly blaming the production for Wednesday’s mass shooting in Alexandria, Virginia, by screaming, “The blood of Steve Scalise is on your hands!”
The Times reports that Loomer was ultimately charged with criminal trespass and disorderly conduct and released — in part because she would not step away from Central Park’s Delacorte Theater, where Julius Caesar is being performed, upon being escorted out. “Because of liberal violence like this, a congressman this week was shot in Virginia,” she reportedly declared.
I'm out of jail, but I'm not apologetic. Thanks to everyone who is supporting me & condemning political violence. https://t.co/QkZkxu1yCj
Such claims have been a theme among many on the right in the aftermath of the shooting, which left House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA) critically wounded. As Vox’s Jeff Guo writes:
Many Republicans condemned Democrats and the “liberal media” for promoting a combative tone against the GOP. They pointed to raucous town halls, protests in the streets, and, of course, that controversial photo of Kathy Griffin holding a bloodied, beheaded figure of Trump. "The rhetoric has been outrageous: The finger-pointing, the tone, the angst and the anger directed at Donald Trump,” complained Chris Collins, a Republican representative from New York.
Related
And since the shooting happened in the same week that the uproar over Julius Caesar hit a fever pitch, some — including both Friday’s protesters, apparently, as well as the president’s son Donald Trump Jr. — have been quick to draw a direct connection between the shooting and the play:
This https://t.co/RD5jExTSjc
Events like today are EXACTLY why we took issue with NY elites glorifying the assassination of our President
But as many Shakespeare fans and scholars have been pointing out since the outrage over the Public Theater’s Trump-tinged production first began to draw criticism, Julius Caesar is an inherently political play with warnings for everyone — and one that specifically implores those who commit political violence, even in service of their country, to consider the futility of their actions. It also lends itself to different interpretations for different political contexts.
As Alissa Wilkinson writes for Vox:
Julius Caesar is a political play, one that plumbs the uneasy relationship between power and populism, as well as the conflicts that arise between personal relationships and loyalty to country. It even explores the pitfalls of various forms of government, from democracy’s potential for mob rule manipulated by showy speakers to the potential for personal power seeking in a republic to the dangers of iron-fisted, people-crushing authoritarian rule.
And thus, with regard to the Public Theater’s production of Julius Caesar in particular, Wilkinson explains that those who’ve argued that it incites violence are completely missing the point:
You can only read Julius Caesar as a simple revenge fantasy if you don’t actually read the play. And casting a Trump-like character as Julius Caesar does a lot more for him than merely let an audience watch him get assassinated onstage. Just as Julius Caesar is a play with many warnings, a specifically Trump-oriented Julius Caesar contains many warnings and implications — and bafflingly, right-wing media hasn’t bothered to point them out.
...
Opponents of the Shakespeare in the Park production of Julius Caesar, if they were familiar with the text, could have seized on the chance this production handed them. For one, it puts Trump in the position of the beloved leader of the people, casting him as a legendary hero. And it warns about the futility of violence against him (something that has new resonance in the wake of controversy over Kathy Griffin’s “beheading” of the president). A canny right-wing response to the production could have praised it for embedding conservative and even Trump-supporting ideas inside the more obvious, arguably even ham-fisted depiction of the president. (National Review came closest to this approach, calling it “boring.”)
But Friday’s protesters clearly viewed the Public Theater’s production of Julius Caesar as a call for violence against the right.
As for what happened post-protest during Friday night’s performance, the Public Theater’s artistic director, Oskar Eustis, gave a statement to the Daily Beast in which he characterized the incident as a both minor and meaningful:
Two protesters disrupted our show tonight; we stopped the show for less than a minute and our stage manager handled it beautifully. The staff removed the protesters peacefully, and the show resumed with the line ‘Liberty! Freedom!’ The audience rose to their feet to thank the actors, and we joyfully continued. Free speech for all, but let's not stop the show.
The comic book industry doesn’t care if you’re a New York Times best-selling author or the winner of a National Book Award — it has no problem canceling books, even great ones, even ones featuring Black Panther, the star of Marvel’s next big movie after Thor: Ragnarok.
New York Times best-selling author Roxane Gay confirmed on Twitter this week that Marvel has canceled Black Panther: World of Wakanda, after publishing only six issues.
Sadly, the series was cancelled but I hope to revisit the characters. https://t.co/7kieeBWdQy
Gay was co-writing the book with National Book Award winner Ta-Nehisi Coates and Yona Harvey, while Alitha Martinez and Afua Richardson provided the art. It centers on exploring the stories of the other, intriguing characters who live in Black Panther’s fictional country of Wakanda.
The book’s cancellation comes as a surprise to many, since Gay and Coates are well-known and critically acclaimed authors. And its timing, to an outside observer, might seem shocking: Coates announced that Marvel canceled his Black Panther and Crew comic in May, and both cancellations have come just as Marvel Studios is kicking off its marketing campaign for its 2018 Black Panther movie, whose first teaser trailer was released earlier this month.
The decision to cancel both of these titles will no doubt ignite the perpetual debate over Marvel’s commitment to diversity in its stories and comic books. Canning two books that feature black characters seems egregious, especially when there are plenty of marquee superhero titles that bumble along in mediocrity. But the cancellations also represent a deeper struggle of the comic book industry, simply because the industry is built in a way that makes it hard for newer, lesser-known comics to succeed.
The blunt reason why Marvel canceled Coates’s and Gay’s comic books, or any other comic book, is that they weren’t selling. Gay’s World of Wakanda debuted in November and sold an estimated 57,073 issues according to Comichron, a site that catalogs the yearly and monthly sales of comic books. Its last issue, the sixth in the series, was published in April and sold 14,547 copies. That’s a major drop; a “good” sales figure for a typical comic book is around 30,000 to 35,000 copies.
Quite simply, World of Wakanda wasn’t selling well enough — but the solution isn’t as simple as going to your local comic store and buying more copies of Gay’s books.
That’s because, in Marvel’s eyes, the number of copies of World of Wakanda that were sold in comic book stores was decided months ago.
Considering the numerous ways and formats in which we are now able consume different kinds of pop culture, from books to music to television shows to movies, the comic book industry is unique in that it still relies on an outdated method of distribution.
Every major US comic book company — Marvel, DC, Image, etc. — relies on one company, Diamond Comic Distributors, to print and ship their books to independent retailers, a.k.a. the owners of comic book shops. Diamond sells comics to comic book shops as final sale, meaning owners aren’t allowed to return or exchange books that didn’t sell. This is in contrast to traditional book retailers, which can sell back the books they weren’t able to sell.
Further, the process for these orders begin three months in advance of a comic book’s release, based on what the industry calls “solicitations.” Solicitations are a couple of pages’ worth of unlettered previews that show off the issue and give retailers a gauge of how many copies to order. The final order cutoff — the deadline for when these retailers are allowed to adjust their orders — is 20 days before shipping.
Faced with this system, retailers may hedge their bets. They want to pick the comic books they can sell the most copies of, since they’re taking that final sale hit, which means titles focused on A-list superheroes like Batman, Superman, and Spider-Man are favored over titles that feature newer characters, and big events and crossovers like Secret Empire take priority over regular stories.
Marvel, in turn, tends to lean into what those retailers want, producing more titles that feature A-list superheroes or that involve big events and crossovers, and culling titles featuring lesser-known characters that might not sell as well. As a result, lots of new books and stories don’t have much of a chance to succeed or a margin for error.
It’s a system that rewards the status quo, instead of taking risks and breaking new ground.
Back in April, one of Marvel’s vice presidents said in an interview that Marvel had learned from retailers that diversity hasn’t been selling. It caused a massive, angry backlash against the company and was widely covered by news outlets.
Clearly, fans and critics were upset by the statement, and feel passionate about the importance of diverse comic books. But turning that passion and anger into something tangible is difficult.
The comic book industry isn’t going to magically change its distribution system overnight, and in order to flourish within the system, comic books must be preordered. Since comic books are sold to retailers as final sale and are ordered three months in advance, walking into your local comic book shop and buying a book off the shelf does nothing to directly support the book in the eyes of the publisher or Diamond’s sales.
The only real way around this is to preorder a book from your local shop in advance of its release, which alerts the shop owner that there’s interest in a title, and that they should stock it in on their shelves. Comic book writer Kelly Sue DeConnick explained the importance and effect of readers’ preorders on her Tumblr:
If the shop knows you’re going to buy, well then, that’s a no-brainer sale for them, isn’t it?  Most stores will reward a guaranteed purchase with a discount. And at some stores the discounts get deeper if you subscribe to (or “pull”) a title, and deeper still if you pull multiple titles. If they get enough pre-orders on a book, the book has “buzz” and they may take a chance and order a few extra copies for the shelf as well. Orders numbers go up, customer is happy, publisher is happy, book exists for at least another month.
Truth be told, that’s a lot of work and money to invest into comic books — let alone books with no guarantee, due to the limitations of solicitations system, that they’ll be great or have staying power — but it’s the nature of the industry.
This problem is exacerbated by the fact that digital copies of comics that you can buy and read online don’t have the same clout with publishers as sales of physical copies from traditional retailers — comic book companies like Marvel don’t release the digital sales of their individual comic books, making it hard to know how much of a difference they make. And waiting for collected editions of comic books to be published so that you have multiple issues in one volume — which comics fans do because of convenience and because it allows a whole story to be told — doesn’t really do much to support a comic whose fate is determined by how well it sells month to month.
What makes the situation even trickier is that more casual Marvel fans who don’t follow lots of comic books may not be privy to how the system works.
Since its release last week, the teaser trailer for Black Panther, the Marvel studios blockbuster based on the comics, has been viewed more than 22 million times. If 1 percent of the people who watched the teaser trailer had also preordered Gay’s or Coates’s comic books, the books would be Marvel’s best-sellers by a long shot.
There’s no question that Marvel could do a better job of promoting its lesser-known, more diverse comic books, and of educating its massive fan base about the existence and importance of preorders. Perhaps the company could also experiment with different publishing strategies when it’s launching new titles that might not sell at first — perhaps by making them digital-first, or by releasing books like World of Wakanda in the same style that Netflix uses for its TV shows, as a bingeable collection. But there’s also a responsibility for fans to support the art they say they want to see.
Father’s Day is upon us once again this Sunday, June 18, and while you’ve hopefully already bought dear old Dad a cool gadget or witty card to mark the occasion (and if you haven’t, stop reading this and go get one!), you may have some questions about the holiday. Do we have Hallmark to thank (or curse) for it? Which came first, Father’s Day or Mother’s Day? Read on for answers to those questions and more.
The lore goes that the holiday is the brainchild of two different women. The first, Grace Golden Clayton of West Virginia, suggested to her pastor in 1908 that the church honor fathers, an idea likely inspired by a mining disaster in nearby Monongah the year before that killed 362 men and left 1,000 widows and children.
The other woman, more widely recognized as the creator of Father’s Day, was Sonora Dodd of Spokane, Washington. Dodd and her five siblings were raised by a single father in a time when that was largely uncommon, and in 1910 she started a petition to recognize the holiday.
The first piece of legislation regarding the day was a 1913 bill by Congress specifying that "[t]he third Sunday in June is Father’s Day." While its popularity waxed and waned over the years thanks to — no joke — tie manufacturers, it slowly gained popularity from the 1930s to the '60s. (Read my colleague Phil Edwards’s piece "How the necktie industry saved Father’s Day" to get the whole fascinating story.)
In 1966 President Lyndon Johnson issued the first presidential proclamation to mark the celebration of Father’s Day, and in 1972 President Richard Nixon finally signed it into law.
Father’s Day is now celebrated in many other countries, including Russia, Thailand, and Australia, though not always on the same day as in America, and not always in the same fashion. For instance, the Telegraph notes that in Germany, "[in] certain regions it is traditional for groups of men to go into the woods with a wagon of beer, wines and meats. Heavy drinking is common and, according to official statistics, traffic-related accidents spike on this day."
It’s definitely Father’s Day, with the apostrophe before the S. If you want to dig into the grammar of it, Dictionary.com offers this rather touching explanation:
With the apostrophe before the s, Father’s Day "belongs" to each individual father. If the apostrophe fell after the s, the meaning slightly changes. That would be a holiday "belonging" to all fathers as a collective.
In other words, Father’s Day is a time to celebrate the greatness of your own dad, and to hell with the rest of them. (More broadly, if you're confused by apostrophes in general, Vox’s German Lopez has a great explainer.)
If you don't care about grammar in the slightest, here’s the simplest explanation: Though founder Dodd spelled the name Fathers’ Day on her original petition to recognize the holiday, the 1913 congressional bill spelled it Father’s Day. And thus it has remained.
There are at least two (very different) movies about the holiday. The Father’s Day of 1997 stars Robin Williams and Billy Crystal as two strangers who go on a quest to find a boy after the ex they share informs them both, separately, that the kid is their son. Roger Ebert was not a fan, calling it "a brainless feature-length sitcom with too much sit and no com."
The Father’s Day of 2011 is an "American-Canadian action-horror comedy" about a quest for revenge against a serial father killer, which has a surprisingly high 71 percent rating on Rotten Tomatoes.
But if you’re looking for something more family-friendly, perhaps featuring Julia Roberts, we assume it’s only a matter of time until someone takes a cue from the late "holiday-themed supervillain" Garry Marshall and unleashes a hellish vision of Father’s Day upon the world.
You may love both your parents equally, but in this aspect, at least, the moms have a clear lead. Though greeting card companies and sporting goods stores now rake in profits every third Sunday in June, there are a few pieces of evidence for Father’s Day being the smaller of the two parent-focused holidays.
One is that Mother’s Day has just been around longer — as Edwards explains, the mother of Mother’s Day, Anna Jarvis, created the holiday in 1908, and President Woodrow Wilson made it a national holiday six years later. Father’s Day, meanwhile, didn’t become an official holiday until 1972, courtesy of Nixon.
It could also reflect a difference in home life structure. According to the Census Bureau, there were 1.9 million single fathers with kids under 18 in 2015, versus 9.9 million single mothers. And in two-parent families where one parent stays home with the kids, there’s a big discrepancy in who it is: The census found that among married couples, there were 5.2 million stay-at-home moms in 2015, versus just 199,000 stay-at-home dads.
The sales data bears this out: The National Retail Federation estimates that Mother’s Day this year resulted in $23.6 billion in spending, while Father’s Day–related sales are expected to be around $14.3 billion — not exactly chump change, but a significantly smaller sum nonetheless.
Here’s how Father’s Day gift giving breaks down, according to National Retail Federation data:
If you’re under 10, congrats — not only do you have excellent reading skills and taste but you’re one of the lucky few who can get away with presenting a novelty neckwear item of some sort (Tabasco ties were my go-to). Otherwise, you could take your dad to the movies; per CNN, Father’s Day weekend was the fourth-highest-grossing box office weekend in 2015. You could send him a card (like 74 million people do each year, according to Hallmark), though if you haven’t already put one in the mail, an e-card is more realistic this year.
Regardless of what you get him (or don’t get him), your dad probably just wants your love, so spend time with him if you can or give him a call if you can’t. Unless, of course, he’s one of the 14 percent of dads Zagat surveyed who just want to be left completely alone on Father's Day.
The Great British Baking Show is, on the surface, the most stressful show in the world. Twelve (occasionally 13) amateur bakers gather in a tent to spend 10 weekends baking everything from gingerbread sculptures to steamed buns. Judges Mary Berry and Paul Hollywood cast wary eyes over potential mistakes, and one bout of runny icing could get a contestant kicked out of the running for the title. There's even the obligatory time's-running-out theme song to heighten tension whenever things are down to the wire.
But bakers clap for one another, Berry and Hollywood are as likely to soothe nervous contestants as to question cocky ones, and that title amounts to a cake stand and some flowers. We're all in this for fun.
The Great British Baking Show (The Great British Bake Off in the UK) is empty of the backbiting or schadenfreude that many American reality shows use to ramp up dramatic tension. There are no twists built into its setup; contestants learn what two of each week's three baking challenges are ahead of time so they can practice at home, and there's no false scarcity driving contestants to fight over the last dozen eggs. It assumes that the pressure of doing your best is enough, and seems more invested in encouraging camaraderie than competition: Contestants regularly offer one another tips and even helping hands.
Half of the appeal of the Baking Show is that it's so genuine (maybe uncomfortably so for Americans used to cooking shows like Cutthroat Kitchen), which makes it all the more remarkable how deftly the show avoids treacle. The show has found success by knowing exactly how far it can invest viewers without forcing them to pick favorites, and how tightly it can edit the competition without stressing them out. The stakes are low enough to encourage a gentle remove from the bakers; their determination is sincere, but the stakes are sufficiently small that they — and we — aren't worried.
The newest season of The Great British Baking Show, premiering June 16 on PBS, brings back everything that makes the show tick. We know little about the contestants; they develop baking styles as the season goes on, but there are no tragic backstories here. (Hosts Sue Perkins and Mel Giedroyc deliberately deemphasize this sort of drama, cursing near any crying bakers to prevent the show from using the footage.)
Though Berry and Hollywood are exacting, they're never above jokes at their own expense — Hollywood's hardscrabble vanity, Berry's tippling poshness, their strained fondness for each other. And in their judging, persona rarely trumps practicality: Even the brutal critiques are constructive, and they almost always find something to praise. What we see instead of typical reality fare is a group of earnest amateurs, sincerity, self-deprecation, and the bakes.
It's a winning strategy in the UK, where the Bake Off is a runaway success and a cultural lightning rod. (The good: Brits are baking more. The ill: Viewers on Twitter have attacked Muslim and Sikh contestants, and Hollywood was once accused of favoring a baker because of her looks.) Many former Bake Off bakers have written cookbooks or newspaper columns in the UK. And the ratings are gangbusters; the season premiering this month on PBS aired last year in the UK, and scored nine of the 10 most-watched TV episodes of the year for the BBC.
It took American TV a while to catch up. Though Bake Off first aired on the BBC in 2010, it was four years before PBS caught on. Even then, it seemed PBS wasn't quite sure how to handle it: It aired the fifth BBC series as its season one, and its fourth as season two. But season two garnered an average of 2.1 million viewers, and the third season was PBS's most popular streaming show — good news for a network trying to popularize its streaming service against Netflix, which also has the American seasons. The show's become a social media phenomenon here as well as in the UK, and after three seasons it's so ubiquitous even Saturday Night Live had a go.
But PBS hasn't quite kept pace with the American appetite for the show. The network has yet to announce plans to buy the previous seasons, and this most recent season (seven in the UK, four here) is hitting American airwaves nearly a year after the UK saw it (it premiered in late August 2016). Further complicating the show’s stateside future, this is the last season of the show that will appear on the BBC, which lost the rights to the show. When the next season airs on Channel 4, Perkins, Giedroyc, and Berry will be missing; they opted to stay at the BBC, where disparate shows are being planned for them.
No matter how next season turns out, though, it will be hard to recreate the oddball magic of the Baking Show that audiences have come to know — certainly if American attempts are any indication. CBS tried it in 2013 by bringing Paul Hollywood to The American Baking Competition; ABC tried it in 2015 with Mary Berry judging The Great Holiday Baking Show (renamed in its second season to The Great American Baking Show); neither drew big numbers or critical praise. There's just something about that white marquee on a green British lawn.
This bake-off is treated as intense competition in the UK; it even had its own bookie scandal, when booking agents refused to take bets on the grounds that the show was filmed ahead of airing and the winners were known. (Oddsmakers now take only "illustrative" bets, meaning there’s no money involved; even the betting has become no-stakes.) But the Baking Show is something else here. Those reality TV trappings are familiar, but the lack of internal conflict means it's more of a collective well wish performed by people piping icing with all their might. Everyone's doing their best, and no matter how it turns out, the camera pans appreciatively over it all.
It becomes an almost meditative viewing experience; the outcomes vary, but the rhythms are the same, and the small tricks of editing — knowledgeable asides, shots of the tranquil park and wildlife outside, supportive smiles between bakers — are designed to soothe. There's a sense of acceptance in these nearly impossible challenges. Something will go wrong. Nothing will ever be perfect. That's all right; everyone's fine, and the bake goes on.
In its aesthetic commitment to low stakes and tranquility, the Baking Show is less at home in the competitive-cooking canon than it is part of a particular subset of media that's gleefully abandoned frenetic pacing and high stakes: Slow TV.
The term was originally coined to describe a show following a low-stakes event in real time — less a narrative documentary than a gentle freezing of an experience in time. Norway set the trend with a camera mounted to a train for a picturesque seven-hour train ride; since then, the genre has expanded into such thrilling adventures as boat rides and knitting bees. And the appetite for experiences with no stakes is growing: since Norway's first foray, the UK, the Czech Republic, and Belgium have produced similar offerings.
Despite appearances, a lot is happening under the surface of a Slow TV event. The very concept stands opposed to the idea that the only way to be interesting is to up the stakes; the landscape changes, but the approach never escalates — a Slow TV boat ride is unlikely to end with the boat perched on the edge of treacherous rapids. But the heart of any Slow TV event is the aching, lovely detachment of it all. The stakes are so low that Slow TV events aren't even constructed with the assumption you'll watch it all. Instead, the rhythm of the journey (or the knitting bee) becomes its own background noise, something calming and occasionally meditative. Slow TV is designed not to draw you into its story, but to lull you into not worrying about one.
There's a similar idea behind the rising popularity of ASMR podcasts and videos. ASMR (autonomous sensory meridian response, the calming tingle of a particularly soothing activity — say, getting a haircut) has recently become a mainstream coping concept. For some, ASMR stimulation is a way to combat anxiety or insomnia, an all-natural way to lower your blood pressure. Whole YouTube channels are devoted to mostly whispered monologues or quiet soundscapes about something satisfying that has very low stakes: someone writing on thick paper, someone painting your nails, someone carving soap. And though the audio is carefully calibrated to be calming, the most soothing thing about these videos is that nothing will go wrong.
Related
The Baking Show has some lulling cadence of its own; with the limited theme music indicating moments of success, kindness, and suspense, you can track an episode from another room. But if that's not enough, the show has embraced the slow-comfort feedback loop and developed an even gentler version of itself: Masterclass.
Masterclass is a Baking Show offshoot designed for those who find competition too stressful and just want to watch Mary Berry and Paul Hollywood stack cakes while chatting about ingredients. (With the gentle whirr of the mixer and their even-keeled rapport, each season is practically a four-hour ASMR video.) They bake much more efficiently than real time, so it's not officially Slow TV, but the series' meditative calmness goes even beyond a regular Food Channel segment. It's the Baking Show, but without having to worry about anyone, in case all you want is a list of fruits in a tennis cake and Mary Berry's resignation as Paul Hollywood jams his hands into yet another bowl of dough. There's nothing to lose in Masterclass.
Admittedly, Baking Show proper can't promise quite that level of calm. The season that’s premiering this week on PBS — which now feels like the last of a golden age after the departures of Berry, Perkins, and Giedroyc — has the same ambient pressure as the rest. (One contestant admits with marvelous resignation, "I've never been so stressed about dough in my life.") There's a new flourish to the countdown music suggesting this season is more intense, Paul Hollywood snarks a little more than usual, and the voiceovers are studded with dramatic pauses to remind us these bakes are tougher than ever. We know that at least once a season, someone will cry over a bad bake or forget to turn on the oven; we know there will be one or two eliminations that feel unfair.
But this is also a show where many eliminated contestants agree it was their week to go; this is a show that holds a reunion picnic in the season finale. So this season also spends more time than ever on the teasing and sympathetic faces among the bakers, and gives everyone plenty of time to make fun of the show's competitive trappings, its judges, and its own rhythms. Giedroyc and Perkins's pun machine long ago abandoned the fourth wall, but now the show is a known quantity to everyone, and it shows. (Even this is an odd comfort by reality standards; no one has to pretend they've never seen the show they're on.) And the show is careful not to let tension tip over into stress. It's hard to think of an American reality competition that could provide this season's Val, whose idea of trash talk is, "Everybody wants to do their best, and I'm going to do my best as well."
The Baking Show is a series where everyone is striving rather than competing; the difference has been the key to the show's success. Rare is the reality show that's designed to make us admire effort, notice goodwill, and accept things on their own terms. (This is a series in which nearly every winner has come close to being eliminated at least once; nothing is perfect.) Despite that ticking clock, it's a show that wants us to enjoy what's being made, however it comes, and remember the bright green summer just outside. It's the rare competition that understands the comfort of knowing the bake goes on.
The new season of The Great British Baking Show premieres on PBS Friday at 10 pm Eastern.
Since Steven Spielberg’s 1975 film Jaws first ushered in the era of the summer blockbuster 41 years ago, sharks have been among summer cinema’s favorite perennial villains. They rank right up there with the alien from Alien and Sadako from The Ring in terms of habitually recurring evil forces with a single-minded purpose: to destroy everything in their path.
There’s something so elemental and irresistible about the shark movie that over the course of the past few decades, it has become one of Hollywood’s most well-trodden paths to terror. The genre now spans a wide range of films, from classics like Jaws and Deep Blue Sea (yes, Deep Blue Sea is a classic) to serious indie projects like The Reef to sillier D-movie affairs like the Sharknado, Mega Shark, and Shark Attack franchises. And if you’re among its many fans, you know that the only thing that can cure shark movie fever is more shark movies.
Lucky for you, there’s always another shark movie on the way. The genre’s newest man-eating — or in this case, Mandy Moore-eating — entry swims into movie theaters this weekend, with the opening of the cage-diving disaster movie 47 Meters Down. And later this summer, the fifth installment in the Sharknado franchise arrives with Sharknado 5: Global Swarming.
But why sharks? Ordinarily, the prospect of watching Mandy Moore and Claire Holt (who, as Moore’s much more competent sister, is regrettably not the star of the film) try to survive an ocean-floor disaster scenario would be only a so-so draw for moviegoers. But throw in a battle to the death against a group of enormous great whites — and, yes, the sharks in these movies are almost always great whites — and we’re hooked.
In real life, sharks are mainly non-aggressive creatures who barely resemble the evil killing machines they morph into onscreen. They’re anything but an unstoppable force — humans kill a staggering 100 million sharks each year, or 11,000 sharks every single hour, a jaw-dropping statistic that mainly results from the high demand for shark fin soup in some parts of the world. You’re statistically more likely to die from a lightning strike or a toppling vending machine than from a shark attack.
So why are we so fascinated by shark movies, even though they barely represent reality and their plots tend to be incredibly repetitive?
Oh, there are so many reasons.
You may believe sharks are limited to the sea, but you are wrong.
Thanks to the magic of cinema and the relative ease with which a shark fin can be CGI’d to pop out of something and move ominously toward the viewer, we don’t just have sea sharks. We also have sand sharks. Avalanche sharks. Sharks in a sharknado! Sharks in a sharkcano. (That one really happened.) Sharks in a blizzardnado! Sharks on land! Sharks in shark lake. Sharks in swamps. Sharks in the bayou. Sharks in apartments! Sharks at Sea World! Sharks on the Jersey Shore. Sharks at the Golden Gate Bridge! Sharks at the supermarket! Sharks in Japan. Sharks in bathtubs and puddles. Even sharks in the sky.
Much like the 2006 Samuel L. Jackson film Snakes on a Plane relied on the surprise factor of slithering reptiles wreaking havoc at 30,000 feet, a crucial component of shark movies is sharks’ seemingly inherent knack for appearing where and when you least expect them: Just where are the sharks going to be lurking today?
Spoiler alert: They are everywhere.
If you don’t think your average shark is a super genius hell-bent on avenging the atrocities perpetuated against its species by the human race, you’ve never watched Jaws 3-D (mama shark seeks revenge against SeaWorld for killing her baby), Jaws 4: The Revenge (shark seeks revenge against Lorraine Gary’s character Ellen Brody, ostensibly for killing its shark family but more broadly for the sad and rapid demise of the entire Jaws franchise), Mega Shark Versus Crocosaurus (shark seeks revenge on Jaleel White for Jaleel White’s entire acting career), or Deep Blue Sea (shark seeks revenge against scientists for experimenting on it).
To wit: Please enjoy the following GIF from Deep Blue Sea, in which a shark holds a stretcher-bound Stellan Skarsgård captive underwater so that it can throw him against an underwater window in order to spite his grieving girlfriend:
I mean, come on, who among us hasn’t wanted to throw Stellan Skarsgård against a window? Bring on the shark uprising!
The shark can do what no other villainous horror movie creature really can: In addition to engaging in epic bite-offs against other creatures, it can combine with those other creatures to create animalia supervillains. Sure, Hollywood will invent a demonic vampire here and there, but you can’t really give a demonic vampire tentacles. That’s simply not the case with a shark. In the world of shark movies, if you create an undead demon sharktopus, that’s just the first act.
Would you like your shark with one head or two? How about three? Would you like an actual prehistoric mega shark? How about a giant robot shark?
Few, if any, animals have enjoyed such creative big-screen depictions as the noble shark. There are demonic sharks! Sharks with tentacles! Zombie sharks! This shark-horse! Ghost sharks! A shark that walks on land! And coming later in 2017, there will be flying sharks controlled by Nazi zombies!
In other words, if part of the fun of any shark movie is rooted in the nervous anticipation of where and when a dangerous shark might appear, a significant number of shark movies up the ante by combining their shark threats with other things. Not only does this approach allow the sharks to travel farther and kill harder, it ensures an endless supply of shark movies, because Hollywood will never run out of shark-based combination hazards. Killer koala shark from Down Under? Done.
Shark movies can be as minimalist or as full-scale as you want or need them to be.
As Blake Lively illustrated in last year’s The Shallows, shark movies can be a one-woman-versus-one-shark show where the shark is a threatening but largely implied presence. They can involve just two people facing off against a small but deadly herd of sharks (47 Meters Down, Open Water), a tiny ensemble of stranded swimmers trying to avoid getting picked off one by one (The Reef), or a full-scale cast with big-budget shark action like Shark Night 3-D or Dark Tide.
And one of the best things about shark films, regardless of their scope, is that shark size has no correlation to shark excellence — as anyone who actually saw Shark Night 3-D or Dark Tide can attest. The bigger shark doesn’t always have the better bite. In fact, films like Open Water and The Reef can succeed without showing any sharks at all. Believing they’re there is all that matters.
On the other end of the spectrum, the first appearance of a shark — it’s always bigger than you were expecting, no matter the film — never gets old:
This is a pretty obvious reason, but it remains the most compelling of all. Stories pitting man against the terrors of the deep have always been a mainstay of human folklore, from the biblical fable of Jonah and the whale to nautical tales of the great kraken, from Moby Dick to The Old Man and the Sea to Lovecraft’s tentacle monster Cthulhu to Disney’s Pinocchio.
Each of these narratives involves great sea creatures that provide opportunities for heroes to face their fears, come to terms with their humanity, and, you know, be manly men who fish and hunt and conquer the wilderness.
But as formidable opponents, many of these sea creatures lack a significant, shall we say, bite. Giant squid generally stay too far below the surface to really pose a viable threat to humans. Even a big swordfish is no match for a skilled modern fisherman — and the swordfish wouldn’t want to eat you anyway. As for whales, the bigger they are, the more peaceful and harmless they seem to be. Even the ones with teeth are passive and don’t really want to hurt you (unless they’ve been subjected to lifelong animal cruelty).
Sharks, by contrast, are big. They have teeth — sometimes really big, really sharp teeth! They come into the shallow parts of the ocean where humans like to swim and play. Because they are drawn to loud noises and activity in the water, it’s possible, if not probable, that they could be lurking in the water where your loved ones are splashing around. They’re durable and intimidating, and even though in real life sharks are almost never aggressive toward humans, the biggest ones have the power and the potential to chomp you in two.
In sum: Like all man-versus-nature tropes, man-versus-shark movies — and man-versus-sharks-versus-other-creatures movies — can reveal important truths about human nature and serve as fascinating, in-depth character studies. Unlike most other man-versus-nature tropes, they do it with a side of terrifying, razor-sharp teeth.
Sharks combine mankind’s desire to conquer nature with its fear of and fascination with the mysteries of the ocean. Even in this modern age, when we’ve been able to plumb the depths of the seas, we still know surprisingly little about sharks. Jaws’ famous description of a shark’s "cold, dead eyes, like a doll’s eyes" in the film’s USS Indianapolis monologue (which was based on the real sinking of a US World War II Navy ship and subsequent shark attacks on its sailors) is still a testament to how unknowable they are.
In essence, in fiction if not in real life, sharks are the perfect scary force of nature: an ever-present threat waiting to happen, in a deep blue setting that humans are still learning to navigate.
But when all is said and done? As with all great horror movie villains, ultimately we’re always rooting for the shark.

Following British Prime Minister Theresa May’s disastrous attempt to prop up her standing via snap election, her Conservative Party — in an attempt to hang on to its power — has been attempting to forge an alignment with the ultra-religious Northern Irish Democratic Union Party, or DUP.
The broad implications of that alliance were deftly explored by Vox’s Tara Burton, who noted of the DUP’s founder, Protestant minister Ian Paisley — who once denounced the pope as the Antichrist on the floor of the European Parliament — that “his rhetoric was as incendiary as it was powerful,” particularly in targeting the nationalist Irish party Sinn Féin.
“His language, though extreme, represents the sentiments of many in Northern Ireland at the time, on both sides of the political spectrum, for whom religious imagery and evocations of past violence were closely intertwined,” Burton writes.
Rating
In 2007, though, Paisley agreed to share power with Sinn Féin’s leader, Martin McGuinness, signaling an end to decades of conflict in the country, as the two became both leaders and very unlikely friends.
And in eerily prescient timing, the film The Journey, which opens in US theaters this weekend, imagines the conversation between McGuinness and Paisley that led to that agreement.
Paisley and McGuinness (who passed away in September 2014 and March 2017, respectively) had been mortal enemies for decades but had never met before the two sides were brought together in St. Andrews, Scotland. The aim was to broker an agreement about sharing power in Northern Ireland, thus bringing about a cessation of the hostilities that had taken the lives of not just activists but ordinary people as well.
But before the talks got too far on, Scottish weather threw a wrench into the works. Paisley needed to get back to Belfast for the celebration of his 50th wedding anniversary, but a rainstorm made it impossible for him to take a previously scheduled nearby flight. A private jet at an airstrip an hour’s ride away was arranged. And to avoid attacks from either faction, McGuinness decided to join him.
What we know from the public record is that Paisley and McGuinness were driven to the airport together, got on a private jet, and went to Belfast. Not long after, they agreed to begin their famously improbable power-sharing arrangement, as well as what by all accounts was a genuinely affectionate friendship between two men who had nothing in common except the land they called home.
What The Journey sets out to do is imagine what could have happened on that trip to lead to such an extraordinary conclusion. Studiously calling itself “fiction,” the film makes no claims to historical accuracy, and it’s best taken that way. The story that ensues — written by Colin Bateman, who hails from Northern Ireland — is the politics of identity in a microcosm. And even when it leans out perilously into sentimentality, it’s reeled back from the edge by the fact that its two central characters are from Northern Ireland, and can’t let anything get too far down the path of sappiness.
The Journey supposes that the two men being thrown together in a van on the way to the airport was no accident. Colm Meaney plays McGuinness and Timothy Spall plays Paisley, with Toby Stephens as Tony Blair, Freddie Highmore as the young lad driving them to the airport, and John Hurt (who passed away in January) as the intelligence chief engineering the whole thing.
Yes, it’s a little over the top, conceptually, and the image of two guys in a van — even two as explosive as McGuinness and Paisley — just doesn’t make for great cinema. (The only riveting talking-in-a-car movie that’s ever been made is Locke.) The film feels like a play, in that it’s mainly marked by conversations broken up by seemingly random set pieces, and Hurt, unfortunately, is reduced mostly to uttering platitudes meant to fill in the men’s backstory for viewers who are less up on Northern Irish history. So things have to go wrong to generate drama, and some of the mishaps imagined by The Journey feel pretty contrived. (On the other hand, the movie leaves open the possibility that they were contrived.)
But the point of The Journey isn’t to strictly “reimagine” the trip as some sort of historical reenactment. It’s really more about unpacking the ideologies and personalities that drive conflicts like that of Northern Ireland, where despite the rhetoric — as Burton points out in her piece — it’s not as much about theologies and philosophies as it is about identities, and about belonging to a group.
And that, the movie gets. Listening to Meaney and Spall sling epithets and, later, biting and often unanswerable accusations at each other gets at a deeper truth about these sorts of conflicts: There’s just no one clear, satisfactory answer. Long conflicts result in a long history of grievances on both ends. Spall’s version of Paisley is a humorless, unmoving, angry Protestant minister with a scriptural rejoinder for every one of McGuinness’s statements, no matter how innocuous. Meaney’s pragmatic McGuinness is largely unrepentant about the violence in which his group has engaged.
If the film were totally fictitious, the fact that the two come to some kind of understanding in the end would seem utterly improbable. But truth is stranger than fiction, and that actually did happen, no matter what really went on in that van. The Journey is the rare hopeful political film rooted in both reality and very recent history. Mark Twain is supposed to have said that history doesn’t repeat itself, but it rhymes. At the end of The Journey, you find yourself hoping history will decide to rhyme once again.
The Journey opens in limited release on June 16.
The Book of Henry feels cursed.
And by that, I mean literally cursed. It reminded me of the famed videotape from The Ring — once you’ve seen it, you have to pass it along to somebody else, have to make them watch it, too, or else you’ll be dead in a week, the movie’s strange, twitching form crawling out of your local multiplex to haunt you down.
Rating
I only saw it because a friend saw it, and when I asked him to explain it to me, he said, “Dude, you just have to see it.” So I went, and it changed me, on some cellular level.
Honestly, I may have told you too much already. Just telling you that this movie is bad might be too much knowledge. The ideal condition for seeing this movie is probably staying up way too late and seeing its description float by you on cable. “Hey, I like some of those actors,” you might think, “Maybe I’ll check it out.” And then, one hour and 45 minutes later, you, too, will be changed.
But for those of you who don’t want to risk being cursed by a well-meaning but fatally misguided bit of dramedy dreck that feels like a 1997 throwback in all the worst ways, well, I’m going to tell you about 11 things that happen in The Book of Henry, getting more spoiler-iffic along the way.
At all times, The Book of Henry feels like a screenwriting exercise gone horribly wrong. All of the characters are cranked up to 15. The dialogue is always, always quirky for no good reason. And every other scene features a new bit of story from what seems like another movie entirely. This is probably the only feel-good family comedy you’ll see this year that features an Alfred Hitchcock-inspired subplot about child abuse.
Anyway, if the movie has a central story, it’s probably about Susan (Naomi Watts) and her oldest son, Henry (Jaeden Lieberher), who at times seems to parent her. He does her finances! And makes sure she goes to bed instead of staying up late playing video games!
Yet Susan seems to run a pretty tight ship around her house. There don’t seem to be any adverse consequences to the arrangement the family has, which means that this isn’t a story, and when the movie tries to turn it into one — by having Susan slowly come to realize her son is just a child — it feels like it comes out of nowhere. Weren’t things just fine before?
Henry isn’t a character. He’s a collection of weird odds and ends that are meant to suggest a character. In one scene, he’s the odd one out at school. In another, everybody loves him. It’s really hard to track how anybody feels about him, because he doesn’t feel like a real person. (The fatal flaw of this movie is that nothing in it feels like it’s happening to real people — it’s a movie that feels at all turns like it was made by people who only understand humanity from watching other movies.)
Anyway, Henry has over $600,000 in a checking account from playing the stock market, and we don’t find out about it until about midway through the movie. Also, he’s a would-be genius inventor of Rube Goldberg-style devices, though the movie struggles to make this fit within the story.
I didn’t hate either Colin Trevorrow’s breakthrough feature, Safety Not Guaranteed, or his mega-hit Jurassic World, though I found both very, very bland, their filmmaking mostly notable for its competence, rather than its spark. That Henry is as bad as it is was a surprise to me, at least.
That said, Trevorrow is probably not the guy you want tackling something like Book of Henry, because the best possible version of it — a film I’m not sure could possibly exist — would require very precise control of tone and an imaginative eye for capturing, say, Henry’s various devices.
When one of them is set off, you want to see the device’s components and its full scope and the way all of the pieces fit together and then watch it do its thing. Trevorrow shoots the various pieces of the contraptions as though they were co-stars who refused to appear in shots together, turning the whole thing into a series of closeups that only create chaos where he probably intends suspense about what the machine will ultimately do.
Of all of the misshapen pieces of this movie that exist in Gregg Hurwitz’s script, the one that gradually comes to take over is a subplot about Henry’s obsession with proving that the girl next door, Christina (Maddie Ziegler, famed dancer of Dance Moms and Sia videos, making her big-screen debut), is being abused by her stepfather, Glenn (Dean Norris). The film doesn’t bother to show us Henry building his case — he just tells us a bunch of things about Christina and concludes she’s being abused.
And then he sees evidence of it by looking out his window and seeing Glenn enter Christina’s room late at night. The movie’s PG-13, so we don’t really know what happened (though we can infer), but the movie’s entry into Rear Window territory is pretty strange.
Watts, God bless her, holds Susan together so well that I thought for about 20 minutes that her character made sense, until I realized, wait a second, she didn’t make any sense at all. Similarly, Norris and Lee Pace (as a kindly doctor) and Sarah Silverman (as Susan’s friend) are all bringing their best to this movie. Even the younger performers — who include Room star Jacob Tremblay — are doing solid work.
It’s not enough. The movie’s awkward, ungainly construction and lack of throughline will just leave you saying, “Oh, right. He’s in this movie,” when, say, Bobby Moynihan pops up for a couple of scenes.
Everybody in this movie is in love with Henry on some level. It’s weird.
If you’ve seen the trailer for The Book of Henry, you almost certainly know this is going to happen, because the trailer’s cut like Henry’s a ghost or something. That’s not quite accurate, but it’s close enough. Henry spends the last few weeks of his life traveling around his little town of Calvary making arrangements for … something, and then he’s suddenly having intense headaches, and we learn he has a brain tumor. (This movie only foreshadows things one scene before it needs them to pay off as plot points.)
Then he dies!
Yes, the second half of this movie is Naomi Watts listening to a tape left to her by her dead son about how she needs to set up an elaborate trap to kill Glenn while Christina (who is basically a non-character) is performing a moving ballet at the school talent show.
The script for this film was written in the ’90s, before the advent of smartphones, and it does its best to keep them out of the story (except, curiously, for a scene where there are a whole bunch of them, breaking the film’s slightly timeless vibe). But Henry carries around a Polaroid camera earlier in the film, and those were around in the ’90s.
What I mean by all of this is that Glenn commits his crimes right out in the open, where Henry’s family can see them transpire. The reason Glenn can’t come to justice through traditional means is that he’s the police commissioner, and his brother is the head of child protective services, but it’s not like Susan can’t get evidence of the horrible crimes happening right next door to her.
What I’m saying is: They don’t have to jump right to murder. There are other methods.
This is when the movie is awkwardly trying to be about the relationship between Susan and her younger son, Peter (Tremblay). It’s kind of funny, but not in a good way.
The movie ends with Susan enacting Henry’s plan to kill Glenn, intercut with the student talent show that she’s supposedly supervising (providing her with an alibi). It’s reaching for some of that early Spielberg magic — like when he cut between the kids in class refusing to dissect their frogs and E.T. puttering around the house in E.T.  But Trevorrow doesn’t seem to get that cutting from a kid belching the ABCs to Watts trying to commit murder isn’t going to fly.
And what’s sad is that everybody is really trying. Watts is emoting. Norris is menacing. Ziegler is dancing beautifully. The score by Oscar-winning composer Michael Giacchino is soaring. And it all lands with a thud, because Trevorrow doesn’t understand how to modulate any of this, and basically none of it has been built to. (At one point, there are ominous tap dancers!)
The Book of Henry is such a good bad movie because all involved really want to do something meaningful but haven’t really thought about how to guide the audience to that point. It’s a movie that wants to dance but settles for flailing.
Then the end arrives — and I just can’t spoil it. The last emotional beat of this movie is so stupid it made me howl with laughter. It must be seen to be believed. And the second you’re done, tell a friend. I told my friend Genevieve. She’s seeing it tomorrow, and I’m relieved to be rid of the curse.
The Book of Henry is showing in movie theaters nationwide. I dare you to see it.
In March, rapper and activist Talib Kweli got so frustrated with Donald Trump news, he decided to make a visit to the US Capitol.
He spent about a week listening to anti-Trump figures and emerged with a manifesto for activism in the Trump era. “Hashtags and RTs are cute and make us feel all warm and fuzzy inside, but without actual flesh on the ground, there is no movement,” he wrote in Medium post that called for sustained protest and political engagement.
It’s a theme he came back to several times in an interview with me earlier this month: “There are people who really have convinced themselves that all they need to do is make a cool Facebook post,” he said. “That type of shit is really, really, extra corny.”
Kweli, a fixture of the New York underground rap scene in the late ’90s and early 2000s, has weaved activism into his music for his entire career. His collaborations with Mos Def, together called Black Star, and solo work have spawned multiple albums meditating on issues like mass incarceration, misogyny and police brutality. Throughout his career, he’s advocated for social justice, protesting and speaking at Occupy Wall Street and Black Lives Matter protests.
Today, Kweli runs the independent record label Javotti Media and continues to make music, his latest a collaboration record The Seven with rapper Styles P. He continues his political advocacy and vocally opposes the Trump administration.
I chatted with Kweli on the phone about the danger of a renewed war on drugs, why we need to engage with Twitter trolls, and fake “woke-ness” on social media.
What’s your reaction to the recent Jeff Sessions memo and the pullback of Obama-era criminal justice laws? Some are saying this will be the return of the worst days of the war on drugs.
The only thing I can say is that the people who support Trump and Sessions and sat before him knowing he said Elizabeth Warren is Pocahontas, grab them by the pussy doesn’t bother them, all the Mexicans are rapists doesn’t bother them — all of these things that Trump has said, if none of those things bother them — maybe when Sessions comes for their pot, they’ll start to care. If humanity doesn’t matter to you, accountability doesn’t matter to you, bigotry doesn’t matter — maybe when it comes to you getting high, then maybe you’ll start to care.
So you feel like there’s been a cultural shift in attitude toward drug use?
Oh, absolutely. Especially when it comes to weed, we shifted to a society of everyone smoking pot. We all smoke weed. We pretend we don’t, but the whole society does. Even your hardcore racist KKK dude is smoking a big fat blunt.
Today’s libertarians, I know many who are not racist, who are not bigots — they just believe in certain things about the government. They’re really about their freedoms. A lot of them overlap when it comes to government regulation and states’ rights with the Confederates and the Nazis. But a lot of them know people with meth habits or heroin habits that they have sympathy for. That’s been the shift and change, pretty recently. They see the effect of the drug war on these people directly.
Given that cultural change, do you think Obama went far enough in terms of trying to dismantle some of the worst war on drugs laws? He’s faced criticism that he should have done more.
Well, in order to be the United States president, you have to be certain things. You need to be a Christian. You need to be an imperialist. Before Obama, you needed to be white. At this point, you need to be a man. Obama was never going to be a revolutionary. He has always been a pragmatist and always been someone who has tried to work with both sides.
So when people say Obama didn’t go far enough, from my perspective I think he did what he could do considering the crazy amount of obstructionism he faced. I think Obama being a black man and having that experience allows him to see things from a different perspective than most US presidents before him.
Now, intentions don’t matter as much as results matter when it comes to policy. But I do think his intentions were to roll back mass incarceration — he let out more prisoners out than any other recent president, and he told me personally that he wanted his legacy to be criminal justice reform. He said that to a room full of artists. I think Obama used what he thought could work to try to help more traditionally grassroots causes. But I think there’s different ways to do it and his way was definitely working within the system. His way was not revolutionary, and I don’t think he ever pretended to be.
You’ve always been critical of consumer culture in your music. Do you think the more consumer elements of our culture and celebrity worship are all things that led to Trump?
We worship the dollar. Our holidays are Black Friday and Christmas. Our religion is consumerism and Trump is a patron saint of that religion. Anybody who was in New York City in the ’80s knows the whole concept of greed is good, capitalism is good — that was being sold as mainstream culture. We had yuppies, people celebrating capitalism, people celebrating credit. That was a big thing in the ‘80s — you spent what you didn’t have. And Trump, with his casinos and real estate, those were businesses all about spending what you don’t have. And he sold that image. He put his name on anything. He was an empty suit.
And that image is one reason why Trump has been repeatedly name checked in lots of rap songs — although you’ve never done this in your own music. What do you think about that switch from admiration to criticism for so many people in the hip-hop world during and after this election?
I hesitate to say that rapping about Trump, seen as a symbol of opulence or a symbol of decadent wealth, was necessarily admiration. When you hear him in music back in the day, it wasn’t as much admiration as it was acknowledgement for what he represents.
In the ’80s and early ’90s, especially New York rap, you heard a lot of references to Trump. In ’96 and ’97, Raekwon was rapping “Guess who’s the black Trump.” But they aren’t saying I’m admiring him as a human being. They are saying he’s the universal symbol of wealth. It’s actually very dehumanizing of Trump. It’s not about who he really is. It’s not like they’re saying I admire the man for his politics or the way he treats women.
As far as the activist or the conscious community, Trump was always known as the guy trying to get the Central Park Five on death row. He took out a full-page ad in the New York Post saying they were guilty when they turned out to be innocent.
I was 15 when this happened. I was the same age as those kids when they got caught up in that. It was vivid. They were called the “wolf pack” by the media. So any random group of black kids was also called a wolf pack. I remember going to the mall and they made a rule at the mall that if there’s more than four of y’all, you can’t walk together cause then you constitute a wolf pack. They wasn’t happening to the white kids. The Central Park Five had a very real effect on my life.
I’m really impressed by how much you engage with trolls online. But there is also a line of thinking on the left that engaging with them legitimizing them in some way or that that tactic isn’t going to change any minds.
I would believe that if Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders were president. I’d believe it if you said when you ignore the trolls, they’ll go away. But racism is a disease, and what disease do you know of that, if you ignore it, it goes away? Nothing. So this whole ignore thing — that’s the result of an overly polite, nonconfrontational society, and that’s from people, and some on the left as well, who benefit from the racist status quo.
The fact of the matter is, now they’re changing visa applications so they can look at your social media accounts. We have Senate congressional hearings with Republicans and Democrats saying that Russians bots have influenced the election with fake news. We got AI running around this motherfucker, and people are saying we can ignore the online space. That the online world isn’t real. We don’t have the luxury to say that.
If I’m a guy who’s only on Twitter, then you have every right to criticize me. But I’m not that guy. When Twitter’s gone, I’ll still be doing what I do in the flesh, whether it’s making music for the movement or physically putting my boots on the ground. But I agree that just tweeting or just posting on Facebook is wack. There are people who really have convinced themselves that all they need to do is make a cool Facebook post. That type of shit is really, really, extra corny.
Speaking of, I saw in a recent interview that you used scare quotes around the word “woke.”
People be like “I’m woke” when they just aren’t. Others use it to disparage people of color. Some people think it’s a trendy word and don’t want to use it just to be trendy. It’s just become a meme.
Maybe when you hear the term woke, you’re thinking of people who may have good intentions but who are not really going to marches or rallies or doing the actual work. But that’s your association with the word. There is also a large number of people who are not maybe as savvy as a journalist or as a rapper. Who say woke and mean it sincerely. They don’t know, they’ve never been to a march.
But let me go further there’s a lot of people who organize and rally, contribute money, and still use the term woke. Who are not knowing where the trend, where the culture has moved who are not as hip as you and I might be. That’s why I evoke the term at all — because of them.
What are your thoughts on the debate over punching Richard Spencer, the white nationalist leader who got punched at the Trump inauguration protest in a viral video?
I am anti-violent. I don’t believe that violence solves problems. But I am pro-karma. So when I see karma play itself out, I am not mad at it. Would I be the guy to punch Richard Spencer? That wouldn’t be me. He would have to physically threaten me for me to want to punch him, me personally. But when I see a white boy going all out of his way to use his privilege — that white boy who punched him knew that he wasn’t going to get shot by the cops as quickly as a black dude — I think, well the right calls us snowflakes all the time. Okay, this guy isn’t a snowflake!
I am not crying for any ethno-nationalists or any guy who likes Pepe the frog to get punched in the face. That’s the consequence of that free speech they’re always talking about. Freedom of speech isn’t freedom from consequence.
What’s the difference between the politically conscious rappers of today versus your generation?
The most glaring difference is with the hip hop that I listened to when I was growing up, the consciousness was more wear-it-on-your-sleeve. There were songs about blackness, wearing dashikis, all coming from a strong pro-black strain in our community.
As far as the music artists now that are pushing that pro-black message, they’re more in tune with the sonics and the frequencies of what the average person not as studied is on. So, I bring up Kendrick and J. Cole a lot. Those are artists that are making songs that are highly successful and when you hear them, you don’t automatically think consciousness or activism. But when you listen to the layers, it’s like a Trojan horse.
These younger artists who are conscious, who are inspired by my generation, they have gotten better, as they should have, at the messaging to new audiences with the way that they are making their music.
What’s your message to progressives and activists today?
I can’t really say that I’m in a position to give a message to the activists. My job in that situation is to show solidarity with people doing the work and not tell them what to do. It’s for me to listen, for them to tell me what to do. That’s the best way I can be an ally.
Everybody else — you gotta put your flesh on the ground. Listen to what these front-lines activists are saying. Just posting isn’t enough.
To call the Cars movies the black sheep of Pixar’s filmography does a disservice to black sheep. The first one (released in 2006) is considered the one major black mark in the animation studio’s killer run from 1995’s Toy Story to 2010’s Toy Story 3, and 2011’s Cars 2 is the only Pixar film with a “rotten” score on Rotten Tomatoes.
And, okay, I won’t speak up too heartily for Cars 2 — may it always be the worst Pixar movie — but the original Cars is a good-natured, even-keeled sort of film, one that celebrates taking it slow every once in a while. It’s no Incredibles or Wall-E, but few movies are. Its heart is in the right place.
Rating
Thus, it’s a relief that Cars 3 skews more toward the original flavor than the sequel (a spy movie–inflected mess that revealed a Pixar slightly out of its depth with something so action-heavy). It’s not to the level of that first film, but its amiable, ambling nature keeps it from becoming too boxed in by its needlessly contorted plot (which all but spoils its own ending very early on, then spends roughly an hour futilely avoiding said ending).
Like all Pixar movies, Cars 3 is gorgeous — the landscapes the characters race through are more photorealistic than ever, recalling The Good Dinosaur (another recent Pixar misfire that nonetheless looked great) — but like most of the studio’s 2010s output, its storytelling is perhaps too complicated to really register. The movie is constantly trying to outmaneuver itself, leading to a film that’s pleasant but not much more.
Still, that doesn’t mean it’s devoid of value. Here are six useful ways of thinking about Cars 3.
This is the angle Disney is pushing most in the trailers for the film. Lightning McQueen (Owen Wilson), the hotshot race car who learned to take it easy in Cars, has succumbed to the ravages of time, as we all must. Newer, sleeker race cars are outpacing him on the track, and he’s desperate to make a comeback.
But Cars 3 resists the most feel-good version of that story, to its credit. Lightning isn’t going to suddenly become faster in his middle age. If he wants to beat the young whippersnappers, he’ll have to either outsmart them or out-train them. But Lightning isn’t one for high-tech gadgets that might help him eke out a few more miles per hour from his chassis. Instead, he goes on a random tour of the American South, visiting hallowed racetracks.
It gives the movie a tried-and-true spine — old-fashioned knowhow versus new tech — but it also means that every time the story seems to be gaining momentum, it veers completely off course in a new direction. Pixar used this tendency to let its stories swerve all over the place to great effect in 2012’s Brave and 2013’s Monsters University, but Cars 3 has maybe a few too many head fakes. By the time Lightning tries to tap into his roots by visiting legendary racers in North Carolina, I felt slightly checked out.
Seriously! This is a major part of Cars 3’s climax!
The movie argues that the best thing Lightning (who’s always been coded as a good ol’ Texas boy) can do to help preserve his legacy is try to find ways to hold open doors for cars that are not at all like himself. And the leader of the new class of racers, Jackson Storm, is voiced by Armie Hammer as a sleek, might-makes-right bully who never nods to the fact that he’s so much faster because he’s got access to a lot of great technology.
A major scene at the film’s midpoint involves Lightning learning that his trainer, Cruz Ramirez (voiced by the comedian Cristela Alonzo), always wanted to be a racer herself, but felt intimidated by how she wasn’t like the other race cars the one time she tried out.
How did Lightning build up the confidence to race? Cruz asks. Lightning shrugs. He doesn’t know. He’s just always had it.
Just the description of this scene — or the even earlier scene where Cruz dominates a simulated race — probably telegraphs where all of this is headed. But it’s still neat that Pixar used its most little-boy-friendly franchise to make an argument for level, more diverse playing fields. Except...
The Cars movies have always moved merchandise, and even if all involved parties insist they continue to make Cars movies for reasons other than “because they sell toys” — c’mon. The fact that the movie’s major new character is an explicitly female car, who gets a variety of new paint jobs throughout the film, no less, feels like somebody in a boardroom somewhere said, “Yes, but what if we had a way to make the toys from these movies appeal to little girls as well?”
(And that’s to say nothing of the numerous other new characters introduced throughout the film, all of whom your children will simply have to own the action figures for. My favorite was a school bus named Miss Fritter who dominates demolition derbies.)
So it goes with Disney, one of the best companies out there when it comes to diversifying the points of view that are represented in its films — but always, as the cynics among us are prone to assume, because it sees those points of view as a way to sell you more stuff.
Kerry Washington plays a new character named Natalie Certain, a journalist who pops up every so often to point out how her data can’t lie and how Jackson Storm has a 96 percent probability of winning the film’s climactic race. I’ll let you draw your own conclusions from there.
When Pixar made Cars 2, it faced a major challenge. The first film, dealing with Lightning’s slow embrace of small-town life, didn’t leave much room for another story, and its second-most-important character, Doc Hudson, was voiced by Paul Newman, who died between the two films.
So Cars 2 made a hard pivot into spy movie action, ramped up the role of kiddie favorite Tow Mater (voiced by Larry the Cable Guy), and largely lost the soul of the first film.
Cars 3 is most successful when it finds ways to reintegrate Lightning into the tone and world of the first film, as he tries to grapple with his legacy and realizes Doc (who appears in flashbacks that seem as if they might have been cobbled together from outtakes and deleted scenes Newman recorded for the first film) might offer him wisdom even from beyond the grave. (Since cars can’t really die, Doc is just not around anymore. But, again, c’mon.)
However, because Lightning already learned his lesson about appreciating life and taking it easy, there’s just not a lot to mine here. Cars 3 makes some awkward attempts to suggest technology is no replacement for really experiencing life, and Lightning visits other famous race cars, even detouring to hang out in a bar with famous, groundbreaking cars voiced by Margo Martindale and Isiah Whitlock Jr.
But the movie struggles to figure out how to make all of this mesh, right up until the very end, when it finally nods toward keeping one eye on the past but always letting the future take precedent.
Many thinkers who consider the question of what happens when human beings finally create an artificial intelligence that is on the same level as the human brain have concluded that it will not take very long for such a being to evolve into a superintelligence — which is any artificial intelligence that’s just a smidgen smarter than the smartest human. And from there, they will continue to improve, and we will be left in the dust, ruled, effectively, by our robot successors.
Anyway, the Cars movies don’t take place in an explicitly post-human future, but this is the biggest “c’mon” of them all. At some point, self-driving cars rose up, they killed us all, and now they long for the good old days, not realizing those days are impossible to return to.
Thus, the rise of Jackson and his pals allows the film to broach the subject of those early days of artificial superintelligence, with Lightning in the role of humanity. What will happen when we try to keep up with beings that are simply made better than us? Will we accept our obsolescence with grace? Or will we push back with all we have? Cars 3 suggests no easy answers.
Lou is better than, say, Lava (the odious singing volcano short attached to Inside Out). With that said, it is also about how all of the toys in a lost-and-found box become a sort of “toy golem” that wanders a playground, returning toys to children and making sure bullies pay for their misdeeds.
The audience I saw Lou with ate it up, but reader, I found it terrifying. If Toy Story posited a world where toys wake up when you’re not around, Lou posits a world where toys have no knowledge of what it means to be human but are cursed to make an attempt all the same: strange, shambling beasts from outside of time, wandering our playgrounds.
Make it stop. Kill it with fire.
Cars 3 opens in theaters Friday, June 16, with early screenings on the evening of Thursday, June 15.
At the end of the first episode of The Handmaid’s Tale, I knew that viewers were in good hands.
“My name is June,” says Offred, played by Elisabeth Moss. In the Margaret Atwood novel the Hulu TV series is based on, readers can deduce that Offred — a “Handmaid” who is kept in sexual slavery in a religious theocracy — is probably named June. But Atwood never comes out and says so. The TV series drags that bit of the subtext into the text by the end of hour one.
On the one hand, that’s just something the series needs to do to function. Considering that it cuts between timelines — one in the present, when June is living as Offred, and one in the past, before the rise of the Republic of Gilead and its Handmaid program — it would be very strange to have characters in the past never refer to June by name (especially when we see the first meeting between June and her husband).
But it’s also a sign that The Handmaid’s Tale has put careful consideration into what it needs to do to function as a TV show. The book shows a very slim snippet of Offred’s life; the show will have to go beyond that snippet if it wants to run for multiple seasons. And by setting up the central conflict as being not between Offred and her society, but between June (the woman who would burn down everything) and Offred (the woman who doesn’t realize how much she’s already been changed by her time as a Handmaid), it’s evident the series has thought at length about how to leave itself room to maneuver.
The first season of The Handmaid’s Tale hit rough spots here and there, but even in its weakest moments, it showed again and again that it understands the number one rule of TV adaptations: They can’t just be transcriptions of source material. They have to be windows into worlds.
All TV adaptations must walk a line between faithful duplication and expansion of the worlds they’re set in, no matter the nature of the source material. Fans of Atwood’s book would have rightly cried foul if Hulu’s series focused on the people fighting to overthrow Gilead, rather than the subjugation of the main character. But, conversely, an overly faithful adaptation of the book would have run out of material within six or seven episodes.
There are certainly some shows that succeed as more straightforward adaptations. Notably, Game of Thrones spent five years changing George R.R. Martin’s novels, but not too much. The events of the books largely happened in the right order and still had mostly the same results. Yet even still, the show realized very quickly in season one that it needed to devote more time to characters who were less important on the page than they would be onscreen. (The books followed a strict point-of-view structure, focusing on the interior of one character’s head per chapter; TV, by necessity, couldn’t do that.)
The best TV adaptations, then, study the stories they’re based on — whether novels or comics or films — and find ways to turn them into larger explorations of the source material’s world. The Handmaid’s Tale’s first season hit many of the book’s plot points, but it also directly depicted the backstories of various characters whose tales were only hinted at in the book, as well as checked in with American refugees living in Canada, having fled their homeland.
Not all of these choices were greeted with hosannas by viewers, and not all of them were successful. But the simple fact that the series was constantly thinking about ways to make the book feel more like a TV show always gave me the sense that the people involved in the show knew what they were doing, even when I didn’t agree with a creative choice.
Something similar has happened on one of TV’s other terrific adaptations, Syfy’s The Magicians. That show’s writers have three whole books to play with, but thanks to the realities of TV production, they needed to include, in their first season, a character who doesn’t become a major figure until the second book. That forced them to expand the series’ world in the pilot, and by the end of season one, even though The Magicians show was using plot events from the source books, it was twisting them through its own version of the books’ universe. (It even explicitly suggested that its events had happened before, in other permutations, to let book traditionalists off the hook.)
You can also see this approach in Starz’s American Gods. That series is a more straightforward adaptation of Neil Gaiman’s novel — and occasionally suffers for it — but when it drops into the backstory of one or two characters in particular, as it does for whole episodes at a time, it has to flesh out the short stories about those characters from the book (where Gaiman will occasionally include character-specific interludes that run few pages in length). And in doing so, the show can indulge co-creators Bryan Fuller (who also helmed the even more skillful TV adaptation Hannibal) and Michael Green’s talents for building on these sorts of pop texts and turning them into modern myths.
This method of respecting the source material while simultaneously opening it up doesn’t always work. For example, I more or less liked the first season of AMC’s Preacher, but its season finale suggested that the show should have simply started from where the comics that inspired it began, rather than trying to ladle on a bunch of backstory. But as TV adaptations become more and more commonplace, it’s a strategy that’s paying dividends for the best of them.
You can point to older TV adaptations when having this discussion, too. Little House on the Prairie arguably opened up the world of Laura Ingalls Wilder’s books to form a TV show, and plenty of detective series — including, in recent years, Bones and Bosch — have been based on crime solvers who were first introduced in the pages of crime fiction.
But these older adaptations had a slightly lower bar to clear than many of the newer entries. Bones didn’t need to be especially faithful to the books it was loosely based on because “someone who solves murders by looking at bones” was already a solid basis for a crime procedural. Similarly, Little House quickly moved away from the specific details of its source books, to live in the space between TV Western and small-town show — two genres TV fans were already familiar with.
With The Handmaid’s Tale or The Magicians, though, those specific details from the source books and the worlds they inhabited were a big part of what made the books so beloved. The Handmaid’s Tale couldn’t suddenly become just another exploration of an anti-women dystopia because, well, there aren’t any examples of that in TV history. The show has source material to fall back on, but when it comes to transforming that source material into a TV show, the series operates with less of a net.
You only have to look at a series like AMC’s The Son — a bland, ineffective Western based on a Pulitzer-nominated novel — to see the problems that arise when a show holds its cards a little too close to its chest, in order to give itself plot points to lay out in seasons to come. Like too many TV book adaptations, it all but comes out and says, “Don’t worry; this will all pay off later.”
Or think of HBO’s recently concluded The Leftovers. Though I enjoyed its first season, it was occasionally too wedded to the Tom Perrotta novel that inspired it, and its finest hours are the ones that go way, way off-book to explore some other corner of the story’s universe.
The show got even better — and, indeed, became one of the best TV shows I’ve ever seen — when it left the novel behind to explore scenarios of its own construction. It kept the spirit of the book (interpersonal stories told in the midst of an unfolding supernatural crisis), but it began singing its own tune.
The Handmaid’s Tale and The Magicians and other successful TV adaptations know this is the only way to survive in an increasingly crowded television landscape. If you’re going to make a successful adaptation for TV, you have to be a TV show first, and a faithful adaptation second. Reverse that equation and you’ll end up with a bland show that withers onscreen.
Between movies, books, music, comics, podcasts, and the ever-growing glut of TV, there’s a ton of pop culture out there.
It can be a lot to keep up with. So we here at Vox Culture — where our current obsessions include the Netflix debut of Nick Kroll and John Mulaney’s Oh, Hello on Broadway, the best new additions to your summer reading list, and a fascinating documentary on the Grateful Dead — have a few suggestions for how to make the best use of your pop culture–consuming time.
Here are some items you should really consider adding to your pop culture diet.
Kelly Sue DeConnick and Valentine de Landro’s Bitch Planet is one of the most exciting comic books to come out of the past few years. The concept is a mashup of exploitation films, dystopian stories like The Handmaid’s Tale, and science fiction — it’s set in a not-so-distant future where “non-compliant” women are sent to a prison planet that forces its inmates to fight battles to the death.
In Bitch Planet: Triple Feature, DeConnick and de Landro yield their book to three teams of guest writers and artists, to zoom out of the central story about the women on the prison planet and give us smaller, splendid vignettes about this dystopian future and the women who live in it. —Alex Abad-Santos
What we know from the public record is that in 2006, DUP founder Ian Paisley and the IRA’s Martin McGuinness — archenemies in the decades-long conflict in Northern Ireland — found themselves in a van together on the way to the airport, both of them en route to Belfast. Not long after, they agreed to begin their famously improbable power-sharing arrangement, as well as what by all accounts was a genuinely affectionate friendship between two men who had nothing in common except the land they called home. The Journey is a fascinating guess at what the two might have talked about — and examines the stakes in resolving any complicated, longstanding conflict. —Alissa Wilkinson
By all rights, John Mulaney and Nick Kroll’s take on two men they once saw buying the same Alan Alda biography in New York 2005 should have been the kind of bit that five people found hilarious and everyone else just blinked at before it eventually died out. But Mulaney and Kroll are two of the sharpest comedians working today, and so they’ve managed to bring “George St. Geegland” and “Gil Faizon” with them through TV shows, podcasts, a live tour, and, in 2016, a Broadway run. And now that the Broadway show is on Netflix, you can see it for yourself, in all its bizarre glory, with a bonus of Steve Martin tapping in to get pranked with “too much tuna.” (You’ll get it later, or maybe you won’t! Either way, George and Gil will be charmed to meet you, I’m sure.) —Caroline Framke
Though SZA’s 2014 EP Z and collaboration with Rihanna on “Consideration” caught people’s attention, the R&B artist’s new release, Ctrl, sees her coming fully into her own. It’s a total dream of an album, lacing affirmations of self-worth with smooth bass, sweeping synths, and even voicemails from her mother and grandmother. The opening track — the pointed, confessional “Supermodel” — sets the tone for what’s to come; “Drew Barrymore” is a gorgeous ode to loneliness filtered through a haze of smoke; I’ve barely stopped listening to the dreamy “Prom” since I first heard it. There’s hardly a better way to spend 50 summer minutes than with this album in your headphones. —CF
The Unseen World is a lyrical and lovely coming-of-age story set at the dawn of the computer age, lightly inflected with touches of speculative fiction and American gothic — there’s both an AI and a torrid backstory of mistaken identities and amnesia. It was one of my favorite books of 2016, and now you can get it in paperback. Bonus: The author, Liz Moore, is celebrating the paperback release with a riddle game. —Constance Grady
The late, lamented feminist humor and literary website the Toast closed up shop for good in July 2016, but its legacy still looms large for the tight-knit community of readers, contributors, and commenters that made the site so special. Motherboard’s sprawling new piece on Mallory Ortberg (a.k.a. Slate’s Dear Prudence), who co-founded the Toast alongside Nicole Cliffe in 2013, is called “Mallory Ortberg’s Internet,” and while it’s ostensibly a profile of Ortberg, it’s more accurately a celebration of the worldview that led her to the Toast and brought the site to life. It’s a warm, essential read for anyone still mourning the Toast, or simply curious about how it — and Ortberg herself — came to be so celebrated. —Genevieve Koski
Flora Banks has a very simple problem: She has no short-term memory. Every few hours, she needs to learn all over again that she is no longer 10 years old, that she is now 17 and also has trouble remembering things. Until she kisses a boy on the beach, and everything comes back.
What’s fun and thrilling about Emily Barr’s The One Memory of Flora Banks is that it sets you up to think it will be about a boy saving a girl through the power of first love, but it’s nothing like that. It’s about a girl coming into her own, and learning about how strong and brave and capable she is by herself, without anyone’s help. It’s a joyous romp of a story. —CG
The Grateful Dead sometimes seem like one of those “you had to be there” bands. If you weren’t around for a concert at the band’s height in the 1970s, well, you’d never really understand them from listening to recordings of their legendary live shows. But the four-hour, two-part documentary Long Strange Trip, which is newly streaming on Amazon, offers a two-pronged take on the legendary group.
Its first half tackles all the standard music documentary tropes you’d expect — the group discovering its sound, finding fans, going on tour, etc. — but the second half transcends those roots to consider the cost of fame, even amid a group of jolly hippies. In other words, the first half will help you understand the Grateful Dead, while the second half will help you understand something about being human. Director Amir Bar-Lev (previously of My Kid Could Paint That and Happy Valley, among other exemplary docs) has made a sprawling film that never feels overlong or unnecessary. —Todd VanDerWerff
The annual video game expo E3 takes over downtown Los Angeles every June, filling attendees with excitement for games to come. This year’s event was a bit more downbeat than usual, with few big announcements. But there was still some substantial buzz for one of gaming’s oldest faces: Mario. In the upcoming game Super Mario Odyssey, the intrepid plumber has somehow gained the ability to possess others by throwing his hat onto their heads. In the trailer, we see him possess his greatest foes, a T. rex, a frog, and, yes, a human being. It’s alarming — but it also looks like a lot of fun, especially set to the jaunty original tune that scores the trailer. If you’re into it, you can also watch someone actually playing the game, which comes out in October, sooner than you might think. —TV
In some ways, it’s fitting that the women-led, hard-R raunch-com Rough Night is coming out only a couple weeks after Patty Jenkins’s Wonder Woman bounded into theaters, upturning long-held perceptions of what audiences want out of their superhero movies. Like that film, Rough Night plays in a genre that’s been historically dominated by men — both in front of and behind the camera — and it does so with confidence and charisma. The movie places its male lead in a role typically ascribed to women, a role where he unexpectedly and gloriously shines. And it features beautiful women physically kicking men’s asses, albeit a little less gracefully than Diana Prince does.
But the biggest connection between Rough Night and Wonder Woman is the degree to which both films don’t divert from the expected tropes and narrative machinations associated with their genres. For all its differences, Wonder Woman dutifully hits all the typical superhero-origin-story beats, right down to the hero’s joyful discovery of her powers and a fiery CGI-assisted final battle. And Rough Night hits all the expected hapless-partiers-in-over-their-heads beats, right down to the inebriated poor decision-making and out-of-nowhere violence.
Rating
Put simply: There’s little in Rough Night’s plotting or pacing that will surprise viewers familiar with the conventions it embraces; if you’ve seen The Hangover or, especially, the  1998 dark comedy Very Bad Things, there’s a pretty good chance you’ll be able to predict every element of Rough Night’s narrative.
And yet Rough Night manages to surprise again and again, in its go-for-broke comedic approach (which shares a lot of DNA with that of Comedy Central’s Broad City, which Rough Night director and co-writer Lucia Aniello helped shape from behind the scenes); in the attention the film pays to its characters’ emotions and motivations; and, most of all, in its performances, which range from serviceably funny (Scarlett Johansson) to scene-stealing (Kate McKinnon).
Johansson plays Jess, a party-happy sorority girl turned political hopeful, who’s in the midst of a flagging campaign for state Senate when she heads to Miami for her bachelorette party. The weekend is planned down to the minute by her overeager college bestie, Alice (Jillian Bell); the two meet up with their former sorority sisters (who are also ex-lovers) Blair, a classy designer business suit in human form played by Zoë Kravitz, and Frankie, a full-time activist and ersatz hippie played by Ilana Glazer. Later on, they’re joined by Jess’s friend from her semester abroad in Australia, Pippa (McKinnon, sporting a broad but hilarious Australian accent), whom Alice regards with not just suspicion but outright hostility.
For a while, the biggest tension Rough Night throws at its bachelorette partiers is the Alice-Pippa rivalry and Jess’s reluctance to do anything that might endanger her political aspirations. It makes for good camaraderie and a handful of great laugh lines — but then Rough Night kicks off its second act with involuntary manslaughter, as Alice accidentally knocks the head of a stripper into a fireplace hearth, leaving the inebriated and panicking women with a dead man on their hands.
Rough Night is at first very careful about the laughs it chooses to mine out of its dead-body humor, and for a while the film dials back the raunch and ribaldry as the women struggle to deal with the dead stripper lying in the middle of the borrowed house they’re staying in (which, in a nice touch, happens to be made almost entirely of floor-to-ceiling windows). But the restraint doesn’t last, and soon Rough Night is solidly in Weekend at Bernie’s territory in terms of its respect for the guy’s corpse, and the film’s humor gets both more heightened and more uneven.
But Rough Night’s dead-body hijinks hit at least as often than they miss, and serve to help tease out the smaller, deeper tensions at play in this formerly tight-knit group of friends who have drifted apart in the ways most people drift apart after college. The requirements of the genre dictate that Rough Night must continue ratcheting up its characters’ bad decision-making and hysteria as the film progresses, but Aniello and her co-writer Paul Downs (also of Broad City) keep the mania grounded in the subtleties of the group dynamic.
Aniello and Downs also make the smart decision to provide a comedic counterpoint to the happenings in Miami via Jess’s fiancé Peter, played by Downs. At first, Peter’s bachelor party — a staid affair marked by group wine tasting and conversations about the men’s feelings — is a fun and funny inverse of the debauchery taking place in the main plot. But as things go awry in Miami, Peter embarks on a poorly considered adventure of his own, the comedic escalation of which keeps Rough Night’s rhythm from becoming too expected or repetitive.
At times Downs’s quest — which, in the name of not spoiling further, I will simply say hinges on a plan characterized as “the sad astronaut” — threatens to overshadow the main action in Miami, but McKinnon’s zany, utterly unique comedic energy keeps that storyline buzzing through its narrative ups and downs. Johansson is a solid grounding presence, while Bell brings gung-ho commitment to a less-than-likable character who embodies the very definition of “extra.” It’s hard to love, or even like, Alice, but Bell’s prickly performance adds dimension and verve to a character who could have been the dead weight that sank the film.
Instead, Rough Night floats on the strength of its performances and its anything-for-a-laugh sensibility. Like its protagonists, it’s far from perfect, and arguably not trying to be — it’s just trying to have a good time. And, give or take a dead body here and a leaden gag there, it ultimately succeeds in doing exactly that.
The GIF is now 30 years old, but it already feels immortal — possibly because it’s already outlasted the internet’s most turbulent periods of evolution. And as we consider the legacy of the internet’s greatest file format, we must pause to recognize a special category of GIF that’s left an indelible mark on social media: the reaction GIF.
The internet would appear to have many, many, many candidates for “greatest GIF of all time,” but it’s undeniable that some reaction GIFs are so ubiquitous that the average internet user can likely picture them simply from reading a description. When you can shorthand “blinking white guy” and have people understand exactly which blinking white guy you’re talking about, your reaction GIF has reached peak internet saturation.
Here are Vox’s choices for the most iconic reaction GIFs on the internet — ranked by order of necessity to our lives, from occasionally essential to can’t-use-the-internet-without-them.
Origin: Tumblr word art artist Cat Frazier made this GIF in 2012. And many people thought it summed up the national zeitgeist then.
When to use it: Whenever the state of the world or the news or your life or anything else makes you feel like absolutely nothing matters anymore.
Origin: This iconic awkward Simpsons moment appears in season five, episode 16, “Homer Loves Flanders”; it’s Homer’s reaction to finding out that the Flanders family wants some non-Homer time to themselves.
When to use: You’ve walked into an awkward situation, or just stumbled upon a major internet can of worms that you’d prefer not to open.
Origin: 2013’s The Great Gatsby was a sumptuous visual feast, but this meme-orable moment has transcended its context to become an all-purpose reaction for the ages.
When to use it: Whenever you want to toast or congratulate someone on the internet — either ironically or sincerely.
Origin: When President Obama finished his remarks at his final White House Correspondents’ Dinner in 2016, he literally dropped the mic.
When to use it: Whenever you need to drop the mic, make a killer exit, or end on a high note.
Origin: Steve Buscemi’s 2009 guest appearance in 30 Rock’s fourth season led to this timeless moment — timeless because, for as long as the world continues to turn, old and uncool adults will continue to flail while attempting to connect with Today’s Youth.
When to use it: Whenever an Old is attempting to blend in with the Youngs. Warning: Using this GIF while Old may not actually make you appear more hip.
Origin: One of the newest additions to the reaction GIF canon has been everywhere this year. The blinking white guy in question is gamer Drew Scanlon, and the meme is his priceless reaction in 2013 to a fellow gamer’s casual description of “farming with my hoe.” (Admit it: You like it even more now that you know this.)
When to use it: Whenever Nathan Fillion’s speechlessness (see #6) just isn’t quite enough to convey your level of speechlessness.
Origin: This is actually a pivotal moment for Dawson’s Creek fans — it’s the season three finale, “True Love,” and the decisive moment comes when our (controversial) hero, Dawson, loses it over his realization that the girl he loves would be better off with her much healthier soul mate ... who isn’t him.
The famous moment reportedly wasn’t scripted — Van Der Beek–as–Dawson was just that upset. According to Vox’s own teen drama expert Constance Grady, “the fandom really hated Dawson and hardcore shipped Joey/Pacey, so there was a lot of schadenfreude in that moment where he essentially ‘lost’” — all of which helped catapult this GIF to perennial meme status.
When to use it: When you just can’t hold back your emotions or want to sarcastically overreact — or, if you’re feeling particularly mean, mock someone else’s overreaction to whatever situation is at hand.
Origin: Jim Henson’s most famous Muppet is known for his frequent flailing jags on The Muppet Show, and this GIF captures the height of that tendency.
When to use it: When your excitement just can’t be contained.
Origin: It took seven seasons of Mad Men for Peggy Olson to amass the confidence and life experience required to make her famous penultimate-episode hallway walk a viral moment — but actress Elisabeth Moss sold every step, incidentally sauntering into internet history.
When to use it: This GIF is usually read as a mic drop moment, even though Peggy is technically entering her new office for the first time. Use it whenever you want to make an exit and leave ’em wanting more, or react to someone doing likewise.
Origin: Orson Welles determinedly applauding the critically panned opera debut of his mistress, as the title character in the classic 1941 film Citizen Kane.
When to use it: This GIF is tricky because, while its subject is fiercely clapping, contextually we know that the target of his applause is objectively Not Great, Bob. If you’re committed to a contextual reading, you should save this GIF for times when you’re mocking someone who’s standing alone in their commitment to an unwise idea. But if you just want to declare your unwavering support for someone online, go forth and slow clap them all the way home.
Origin: This famous GIF features actor Nathan Fillion in Castle’s title role, and comes specifically from the 2009 episode “Love Me Dead.” The hour sees Castle rendered momentarily speechless after his daughter tells him she wants to go to college overseas.
When to use it: Whenever someone leaves you at a loss for words — and usually not in a good way.
Origin: Satirical rapper Supa Hot Fire bested upstart challenger B-Bone in 2011 in one of the greatest parody rap battle videos on YouTube.
When to use it: In context, the reactions from the fans surrounding Supa are meant to be over the top. Out of context, their hysteria provides the perfect reaction GIF for that moment when you’re overwhelmed by the ultimate diss, mic drop, witty bon mot, or other supremely badass event.
Origin: Tyra Banks’s unexpected eruption at an America’s Next Top Model contestant who just wasn’t cutting it in 2005 went viral and became a famous reality TV moment — a reaction GIF before the reaction GIF really existed.
When to use it: Whenever someone disappoints you, and the internet collectively, as they inevitably will because life isn’t fair.
Origin: Simon Cowell’s viral reaction to hearing Susan Boyle sing for the first time on The X Factor in 2009 captured a rare moment when the famously hard-to-impress reality host experienced unexpected bliss.
When to use it: Whenever a blissful ray of pure, unfiltered delight punctures your dark and cynical soul.
Origin: The 2012 episode of Community that spawned this GIF was nominated for an Emmy, and this “everything is on fire” moment is even funnier in the context of the scene it’s part of.
When to use it: Whenever you’ve briefly stepped away from something and returned to find chaos ensuing, drama unfolding, or madness happening — or whenever you think you may have entered the Darkest Timeline.
Origin: This GIF is so ubiquitous that internet users will often simply write “popcorn.gif” as shorthand for sharing the actual image, which hails from Michael Jackson eating popcorn in a scene from the 1982 video for “Thriller.” It’s fitting that one of the most famous pop songs ever written has also produced the internet’s most recognizable and all-purpose reaction GIF.
When to use it: Whenever there’s a debate, someone’s making an ass of themselves, or in general something entertaining is happening online. So basically, anywhere and everywhere.
The GIF is officially 30-something, and in the prime of its internet life.
Three decades ago, on June 15, 1987, the most beloved image file extension on the internet was birthed by a team of CompuServe developers seeking a way to compress images with minimal data loss. The solution: the GIF, a simple, flexible file format for lower-resolution pictures.
My, how far we’ve come since those inauspicious beginnings. These days, the GIF is so ubiquitous as a piece of internet culture that it’s got its own offshoot formats like reaction GIFs, GIF art, and Tumblr GIF sets. The question of how to pronounce the word “GIF” has become a rote topic of cultural debate. (The man who invented the GIF, Steve Wilhite, says it with a soft ‘G,’ like Jif peanut butter, but most people on the internet say it with a hard ‘G,’ because a) it’s more fun, b) it avoids confusion with said brand of peanut butter, and c) come on, it’s Graphical Interchange Format, not Giraffe-ical Interchange Format.)
On the surface, it might sound strange that a file format that has essentially remained unchanged since the ‘90s has managed to outlast so many other kinds of higher-level internet tech, from Flash animation to early JavaScript. But as the blog Enthusiasms notes, “the story of how [the GIF evolved] is really the story of the internet growing up.” It’s simultaneously a tale of how the internet’s design evolution impacted the GIF, and one of how the GIF impacted the internet’s design evolution.
Ah, the ‘90s. The internet was awash in garish designs, thanks to websites with noisy wallpaper backgrounds, Comic Sans font, and the ubiquitous Website Under Construction sign. That Under Construction sign, along with many other cute, small animated icons, served as the average human’s introduction to the GIF.
Netscape, Marc Andreessen’s early web browser, reigned supreme for a hot moment in late 1994 and early 1995, just before the advent of Internet Explorer (released along with Windows ‘95) and other competing browsers like Netscape’s eventual successor Firefox. The fate of the GIF was intertwined with Netscape’s early success.
Netscape was the first browser to allow the user to interact with an image on a website instead of just text — meaning you could click on an image and have it link you to another webpage or new information. And when Netscape Navigator 2.0 was released in 1995, it supported the .GIF format, including animated GIFs. Thus, if you wanted an easy way to decorate your website, GIFs, whether static or animated, were simple and available.
Plus, when compared to other file formats, these early GIFs took up very little space on your hard drive and required very little bandwidth to download.
But even back in the ‘90s the GIF was already starting to transcend its workhorse origins. Early viral images like the Dancing Baby and meme-ish GIF-based websites like YTMND (You’re the Man Now, Dawg, a reference to a famous early meme) laid the groundwork for the later GIF-splosion. In fact, though the “Baby Cha-Cha,” as the boogying infant was known to 3-D modelers, began its life as a video in 1996, it wasn’t until developer John Woodell released it as a GIF later that year that its popularity began to spread.
Another early meme was a literal whole page of GIFs — the famous “Hamster Dance” website, created by an art student named Deidre LaCarte in 1998.
Early GIFs revealed two crucial things about the format: It was easy to pass around, and  no matter how many frames it contained, it could be looped an infinite number of times, for an infinite supply of delight.
As web design evolved during the early 2000s, the GIF largely fell out of favor except among meme fans, due to the popular conception that GIFs were tacky and garish. (At that point in the GIF’s history, popular conception wasn’t exactly wrong.) The emergence of Flash animation, JavaScript, and other more sophisticated tools for transmitting video and images online outstripped the GIF’s usefulness.
Still, the GIF remained a useful way to transmit early memes and replicate Flash-based animation — like the 2001 Dancing Banana from the famous Flash animation Peanut Butter Jelly Time.
Throughout the mid-2000s, the concept of “Web 2.0” was the reigning approach to web design. Flash was beginning to falter under the weight of its own clunky load time and the public’s dislike of splash pages — those time-consuming, graphics-heavy “front doors” to websites that would take forever to load and which didn’t always allow you to navigate freely on the corresponding website. Web 2.0 coincided with the advent of Google, Wikipedia, and the first social media platforms — MySpace, Facebook, and YouTube, which all debuted between 2003 and 2005. It emphasized less Flash-heavy design, better load times, and more elegant, prettier web pages.
Smartphones, like the iPhone prototype that first appeared in 2005, were beginning to emerge, and their operating systems and early mobile browsers required more portable, lightweight web design and image handling, which would eventually shift the “Web 2.0” movement into an emphasis on responsive cross-platform design.
By 2004, all of the existing patents on licensing for the GIF had expired, and the format essentially entered the public domain. The combination of fewer legal restrictions on the GIF and a broader, smartphone-boosted demand for a simple, quick, and more lightweight substitute for Flash animation brought the GIF back in a major way. GIF editing was becoming more advanced thanks to the growing accessibility of editing software like Photoshop,  and people were beginning to convert video into GIF formats in order to quickly present video images.
Meanwhile, the advent of YouTube in 2005 had begun to spur the confluence of meme culture with emerging vlogger culture and celebrity culture, and the GIF was there to capture it all. A classic example: 2007’s “Leave Britney Alone” meme, which gave us a famous proto-reaction GIF:
These early video-to-GIF viral memes paved the way for the deluge of celebrity reaction GIFs in our future.
And then came the onset of social media, and lo, GIFs were everywhere.
Reddit, Twitter, and Tumblr launched in 2005, 2006, and 2007 respectively, and each of them played major roles in shifting the culture of social media toward the use of GIFs — especially the image-friendly Tumblr, where GIFs could be uploaded in sets of up to 10 images at once. On Tumblr, GIF sets were frequently elaborate, and people used them to tell stories or encapsulate and circulate current news.
GIFs could also be easily embedded into the text of Tumblr posts or added to a “reblog” in order to react to an earlier poster’s thoughts. And on Reddit, entire subforums arose that were devoted to sharing the perfect reaction GIF or the perfect video moment in GIF form.
Historically, the animated GIF could be a static image or series of static images looped continuously, looped only once, or looped as many or as few times as the user desired. While it’s always been true that GIFs could be looped infinitely or not looped at all, but the modern GIF is generally looped infinitely by default. The infinite loop has become a crucial part of its social function, and advances the GIF’s role in allowing viral videos to spread more easily across the internet in meme form.
And today, it’s relatively easy for the average internet user to screengrab video or still images as GIFS and convert, edit, and add text and additional imagery to them. There are even services that automate the process, allowing GIFs to be more portable and versatile as they travel the web.
Another crucial aspect of the modern GIF is its nature as a quick, all-purpose form of expression. “MFW/TFW” (“My Face/That Feeling When”) and “MRW” (“My Reaction When”) have become standard parts of internet lingo that precede the use of a reaction GIF. And while basically any GIF can be a reaction GIF, some GIFs have become so well known as reaction GIFs that they’ve essentially entered the cultural lexicon.
Reaction GIFs are so broadly recognized as fundamental parts of expression on social media that modern social media platforms, from Twitter to Slack, now support GIF searches through third-party GIF platforms like Giphy and Gfycat. Meanwhile, innumerable smartphone apps support the sending of GIFs through texts.
Finally, the modern era of GIFs has also seen the emergence of GIF artists — particularly on Tumblr, where people have made inroads in animated art while forming a complex and unique community. In 2013, Tumblr chose GIF artist and game designer Roger Von Biersborn as its first artist in residence, inviting him to create original art for the site.
At the same time, more retro movements like the Glitch and Vaporwave art movements combine the GIF with the classic pixelation of the early internet to create a unique kind of magic.
Similar to the GIF art on Tumblr is a form of GIF art called the “Cinemagraph,” a popular style of Instagram art begun by photographers Kevin Burg and Jamie Beck which attempts to create high-level GIF photography.
In 1987, it’s highly unlikely that anyone imagined what a broad range and role the GIF would play in modern internet culture. But as the internet has evolved, the GIF has shown a surprising ability to evolve with it. It’s this durability, flexibility, and — let’s face it — just a touch of kitsch that has allowed the GIF to become the internet’s primary purveyor of memes and looping pictures.
So where will the GIF take us from here? History would suggest that the future of the GIF will depend on how the internet itself evolves. Notably, Tumblr, Twitter, and Reddit, the current drivers of GIF culture, are all struggling to attain sustainability — and as we saw in the case of Vine, some kinds of internet art can’t outlive the death of a platform that birthed the culture surrounding them.
But the GIF would seem to be here to stay. Technologically speaking, it’s portable and durable. Perhaps more importantly, it’s also expressive and fun. It has hopped from platform to platform for three decades without stopping, and remained popular in its highest and lowest resolutions, whether animated or cinematic, ironic or sincere.
So GIF on, internet. Here’s to another 30 years.
Roxane Gay’s new memoir, Hunger, is a radical book. It challenges readers to recognize and reassess cultural norms through the lens of personal experience. It is a book that insists that human bodies are worthy of respect regardless of their size, and that although our culture moralizes and pathologizes bodies that are fat, the presence or absence of fat has no bearing on a body’s essential value.
Gay became fat after she was gang-raped at age 12 by a boy whom she thought she loved and his friends. In the aftermath, she writes, fat made her feel strong; it also made her feel undesirable, and the combination of the two made her feel as though no one would hurt her again. “I needed to feel like a fortress, impermeable,” she says. “I did not want anything or anyone to touch me.”
Rating
There are certain expectations that come with writing about one’s body in public, for women in general and for feminists in particular. Women in general are expected to hate their bodies with a kind of performative smugness, as if the more loudly they announce their loathing of their thighs and their butts and their bellies, the more feminine they will become. Feminist women are encouraged to aggressively love their bodies, to understand that one can be healthy at any size and to fight against the culture that teaches women to hate their bodies.
Gay’s position means she can’t quite conform to either expectation. She treats her fatness as a physical expression of her PTSD, which means it’s not something that she can love and accept about herself unconditionally. She doesn’t like that when she starts to lose weight, she begins to feel unsafe and compulsively eats until the danger has passed. “I no longer need the body fortress I built,” she concludes. “I need to tear down some of the walls, and I need to tear down those walls for me and me alone.”
On the other hand, she holds the very reasonable opinion that her body is not made immoral or dangerous or unclean by the fact of its fatness. Her body has the right to exist and to be treated with dignity, and that so often she and her body are not treated with dignity is a profound failing on the part of our society.
In Hunger, Gay describes sitting in an airplane exit row next to a man who becomes convinced that she is unable to “fulfill the responsibilities” of the exit row because of her size. She describes being covered with bruises after being forced to squeeze into a chair with arms when it is too small for her. Strangers shout slurs at her; professional acquaintances are shocked when they meet her in person because they cannot imagine that a well-respected author might also be fat; doctors refuse to treat her for strep throat without first scolding her about her weight.
Our culture, she concludes, treats fat people with enormous cruelty and disrespect, and hides that cruelty under faux concern for the health of the people in question.
Hunger is an intimate and vulnerable memoir, one that takes its readers into dark and uncomfortable places. Gay examines wells of trauma and horror, not sparing her own self-loathing from her forthright analytic eye. But all the while, she insists on her right to be treated with dignity.
Kim Dickens is tearing it up as Madison Clark, a single mother who tries to protect her children in the zombie apocalypse, on AMC’s Fear the Walking Dead, which just began its third season.
But the actress is well-known to TV fans for other roles as well — in particular her part as madam Joanie Stubbs on David Milch’s beautiful, brilliant HBO Western Deadwood, which ran from 2004 to 2006 and was taken from us too soon, at the end of its third season.
The gigantic, sprawling series — which included dozens upon dozens of important characters by its final season — is perhaps my favorite ever made. So when Dickens and her Fear the Walking Dead co-stars Colman Domingo and Frank Dillane joined me on the latest episode of my podcast, I Think You’re Interesting, I had to ask her about the persistent rumors that Milch has written a script for a reunion movie that he and the Deadwood cast all hope HBO will make.
Related
(Milch has said that he always wanted the original series to feature the historically accurate burning of Deadwood, South Dakota, followed by the residents gathering together to rebuild, but he never got there. I have no inside knowledge but have always thought a reunion movie or miniseries might cover this ground.)
But Dickens didn’t just confirm the rumors — she told me she’s read the script.
“I loved it,” she said. “It brought tears to my eyes just to hear those voices again, so perfectly. It was funny at times and sad and painful and beautiful, really beautiful.”
Dickens said that Milch himself sent it to her to read; she also reiterated earlier reports  in which her fellow Deadwood star Ian McShane (who played the saloon owner Al Swearengen, one of the best TV characters ever conceived) said the script had been delivered to HBO.
“It’s in their hands now,” Dickens said.
For further tales of working on Deadwood; discussion of a big, big moment in Fear the Walking Dead’s season three premiere; and a whole bunch of great stories from Dickens, Domingo, and Dillane about shooting Fear the Walking Dead — which happens to be the only major American TV series shot on location in Mexico — listen to the full episode.
To hear more interviews with fascinating people from the world of arts and culture, from powerful showrunners to web series creators to documentary filmmakers, check out the I Think You’re Interesting archives.
The 1932 film The Mummy is an unlikely progenitor of one of the major summer movie revivals of 2017. An eerie, surreal film, it’s part of Universal’s proud lineup of monster movies — but even for its day it was unique, focused more on atmosphere and character development than on traditional horror scares. In fact, its titular monster is barely shown as a mummy at all.
So how did this unlikely film spawn a beloved 1999 reboot and a disastrous new revival that serves as the rocky kickoff for an entire slate of new films in Universal's upcoming “Dark Universe”?
The answer lies at a strange crossroads, between humanity’s fear of the unknown, the war between science and religion, and our love of adventure. It's there that the mummy in pop culture resides — and the lack of attention to this heritage may be at the root of the new film’s critical and commercial failure.
Mummies — the preserved bodies of ancient Egyptians — have been a cultural fascination since the early 19th century, when interest in archaeological excavations of Egyptian tombs swept across Europe.
“There’s been interest in mummies since the 18th and 19th century, when English travelers went to Egypt and took mummies like souvenirs,” Vicky Almansa, an Egyptologist at Brown University, told me in a phone interview.
The European interest in Egypt was sparked by an odd episode in history: the year Napoleon spent invading the country. Napoleon’s initial 1798 attempt, which was spurred partly by the desire to block English trading routes and partly by his fascination with the region, was mostly successful — or it was until British Adm. Horatio Nelson obliterated the French navy on the Nile and essentially left Napoleon stranded in Cairo.
But while Napoleon’s Middle Eastern campaign was failing, the scientists he brought with him to Egypt were beginning to explore the region and unearth countless finds — including the Rosetta stone — which they took from burial sites and sent back to French and later British museums.
In 1822, France formed the first official study of Egyptology, and the European fascination with Egypt — dubbed “Egyptomania” — kicked into high gear. Mummies in particular were all the rage: The 1851 London World’s Fair included an Egyptian bazaar, and 350,000 entrants to the 1908 Franco-British Exhibition saw an exhibit in which a mummy transformed into Pharaoh’s daughter and back again; societies and lecturers would host “unwrapping parties” in Victorian England in which mummified corpses were dramatically revealed to the public.
The origins of Egyptomania are significant because they connect cultural interest in Egypt to colonialism, conquest, and the consequences of tampering in the wrong domain — themes that have been associated with cultural depictions of Egypt for nearly two centuries. The mummy was the most prominent nexus of this fixation, in no small part because taking mummies from tombs was literal grave robbing.
“The ancient Egyptians didn’t want the mummy to come back to life,” Egyptologist Federico Zangani told me. “The body of the mummy had to be preserved in order for the deceased to attain eternal life.”
Almansa added that “taking the body out of the tomb, not even offering him food that he’d need to survive the afterlife, would be seen as some kind of sacrilege against the deceased.”
This sacrilege manifested itself in the many rumored curses that were popularly believed to be attached to the excavation of such finds — and which in some cases were actually written in tombs as warnings. Various real-life Victorian adventurers were believed to be impacted by the mummy’s curse. In 1901’s The Romance of the Mummy, Théophile Gautier ascribed to the mummy a supernatural knowledge of its disturbed afterlife: “The clear, fixed glance, gazing out of the dead face, produced a terrifying effect; the body seemed to behold with disdainful surprise the living beings that moved around it.“
In other words, the mummy wasn’t just an artifact; it bore the cultural anxieties incumbent upon the spoils of colonialism. Nineteenth-century scientists could sell mummies across Europe with impunity, but in fiction there would be consequences for the cultural ravaging of their tombs, and the mummy would have its day.
Because the mummy was a primary focus of the British public’s fascination with Egyptian culture throughout the 19th and early 20th centuries, the emerging genre literature of the era — specifically adventure narratives and weird fiction  — began to feature mummies. In these stories, the duality of the mummy played a major role: It was a dead corpse that could also enact vengeance upon the living, through supernatural reincarnation or ghastly curses. This framework for viewing the mummy essentially hasn’t changed since, and continues to inform today’s horror tropes about mummies.
The mummy was a prominent part of popular British adventure narratives at the turn of the 20th century. Writers like H. Rider Haggard and Arthur Conan Doyle, who invented the exotic “lost world” genre of pulp fiction, wrote mummy narratives, like Conan Doyle’s short story “The Ring of Thoth.” This is the pulp tradition that ultimately led to Indiana Jones and his brand of adventurous archaeologists and treasure hunters.
At the same time, the mummy in turn-of-the-century literature coincided with the rise of weird fiction with exotic occult overtones. Writers like Ambrose Bierce, Robert Chambers, Algernon Blackwood, and H.P. Lovecraft would frequently write about terrifying mystical encounters in faraway or unknown lands, and the mummy came to be a conduit for both the dread and the inspiration of these moments. In Blackwood’s “Nemesis of Fire,” the mummy is almost a portal to the universe: “time fled backwards like a thing of naught, showing me in haunted panorama the most wonderful dream of the whole world.”
Compared with other exotic horror tropes of the time period, like the monkey’s paw and any number of similar “cursed” artifacts, the mummy often exercised an unusual degree of agency and a will of its own. Early “curse” stories, including Louisa May Alcott’s 1869 “Lost in a Pyramid, or The Mummy’s Curse,” tended to involve a female mummy coming back to life in order to revenge herself upon the person who had stolen her from the tomb and parted her from her lover in the afterlife. (If this plot sounds familiar, it should — vengeful female mummies play a role in all of the Universal Mummy films, including the new one.)
Each of these tropes catered to the West’s growing interest in spiritualism and occultism, but they also, again, dealt with cultural anxiety surrounding the West’s role in colonialism. Edward Said famously argued in Orientalism that US and European writers othered Asia and the Middle East by portraying it as bizarre, regressive, and innately opaque and impossible to understand — all characteristics that recur throughout weird fiction and 20th-century horror. In these narratives, the mummy’s agency serves to justify the West’s fascination with the mummy and ancient Egypt while bearing out Westerners’ fears of the supernatural terror the mummy brings with it.
These are all traits that recur again and again throughout the most famous modern depiction of mummies: Universal’s movie franchise.
By 1932, when Universal produced The Mummy, starring Boris Karloff, the studio was already enjoying a full decade of success from the days of its early silent monster films starring Lon Chaney, and Karloff was in the midst of megastardom thanks to his turn in Frankenstein for Universal the year before. These early horror films typically relied heavily on strong ensemble casts, and a prominent star such as Chaney or Bela Lugosi in the title role, and many of them went on to have sequels like Bride of Frankenstein.
The original 1932 Mummy differed from the typical monster fare of the time (and it would soon be followed by the even weirder The Black Cat in 1934). The plot is essentially a slow-paced cat-and-mouse chase between Boris Karloff and a group of wary Westerners rather than a fast-paced thriller full of terrifying monster moments. And the story is rooted in actual Egyptian mythology, with Karloff’s character, Imhotep, named after a historical Egyptian figure and his ancient bride named after King Tutankhamun’s real princess. Tut’s tomb had been excavated in 1922, and audiences were still familiar with the details.
“Finding King Tut’s tomb would have had a huge impact on the popularity of mummies because that was an international event,” Egyptologist Christian Casey told me.
Notably, the core plot of The Mummy involves a rare trope for horror films of the day: a reciprocated love story between Imhotep and his lady love. But what makes The Mummy really stand out among its monster movie brethren is that there are almost no “shock” moments. Instead, a creeping atmospheric tension builds through plenty of expressionist cinematography until we finally, and only briefly, see Karloff in his full “mummified” form. The film overall was far more romance than horror, and more melodrama than thriller — a genre-hybrid formula that Universal would return to for its unexpected 1999 hit.
Though the 1932 Mummy was unusual in the pantheon of Universal films, it was quite typical in its presentation of the tropes associated with fictional mummies. The discomfort surrounding Western appropriation of ancient Egyptian artifacts is on display; the plot kicks off with archaeologists ignoring warnings about tampering with an ancient Egyptian scroll, with dire results. The portrayal of Karloff’s sinister Egyptian is steeped in Orientalism, reflected in our scientist heroes’ accompanying fear and mistrust of his true motives. The war between Eastern occultism and Western science is another major theme, as is the mummy’s obsession with his reincarnated bride and his dual existence as an evil but civilized scholar and a reanimated corpse.
Universal’s subsequent follow-ups to The Mummy (The Mummy’s Hand, The Mummy’s Curse, Abbott and Costello Meet the Mummy, et al.) weren’t direct sequels, but rather new stories with no connection to the 1932 original except their reliance on the well-established tropes of the genre.
The 1999 film The Mummy resurrected this tradition with a new story using elements taken from the 1932 original. The film, starring Rachel Weisz and Brendan Fraser, was an unexpected cultural phenomenon, merging the mummy’s adventure and horror roots into a new Indiana Jones–esque hybrid: It was a screwball comedy, an action adventure, and a horror movie — a modern pulp narrative that audiences loved. Not only was the film a surprise hit, grossing nearly $500 million worldwide, but it also became a pop culture mainstay.
Despite receiving criticism for its Orientalist portrayal of the Middle East and its stereotyped portrayal of Arabic characters, The Mummy has remained popular among geeks, and in particular feminists, who praise it for its spirited heroine. Weisz’s character Evy, in addition to being an homage to Katharine Hepburn’s scatterbrained but sexy scholar in Bringing Up Baby, is allowed to be smart, adventurous, feisty, fun, and competent — and she even gets to drive the plot. This all means a lot to a lot of people — particularly on Tumblr, where love for the film and its 2001 sequel has remained strong.
So why is a Mummy reboot happening in 2017? There’s a simple, obvious reason:  Universal, seeking to compete with other studios with major ongoing film worlds in development, is creating its “Dark Universe” and starting with its most financially successful horror franchise to date. (Though technically, the plan to kick off this universe dates back to 2014’s lackluster Dracula Untold.)
The subject of The Mummy also speaks to contemporary concerns in a moment when the Middle East is a constant subject of international conversation. At one point in the new film, bullets from Iraqi insurgents “shred apart some of the local antiquities.” The idea of the titular mummy continues to justify Western interest in the preservation of Egyptian culture while also serving as a vehicle for the prurient othering and Orientalism that’s still at work in the way many US viewers discuss the Middle East.
The idea of the mummy also focuses debate around mysticism and science, pitting religious beliefs in the idea of souls and the afterlife against scientific inquiry and exploration. This, too, is a conflict that feels all too trenchant in the current cultural moment.
But of course, the allure of the mummy in pop culture could also boil down to horror fans’ ever-ravenous desire for scary supernatural objects — and that’s something the new film apparently didn’t tap into enough for fans and critics, one of whom noted that “The Mummy, Princess Ahmanet … is a supporting character in her own movie.”
This is a wasted opportunity for a franchise that began in full awareness that the mummy was the nexus of a host of cultural anxieties and contradictions, the kind that easily generate horror. The titular mummy in the 1999 film was also a supporting character in his own film, but the obsession between the mummy and his reincarnated bride remained the scary driving force of the plot. In the new film, the mummy mostly just wants Tom Cruise, and as Vox’s own Todd VanDerWerff points out, Tom Cruise is just too Tom Cruise-y to imbue that connection with any of the usual sociocultural overtones.
Another complicating factor in the mummy’s place in pop culture circa 2017: Modern mummies are handled differently in contemporary culture than they were during the Egyptomania era that birthed our current cultural perceptions of the fictional mummy. Almansa points out that museums now debate the ethics of displaying human remains in exhibits, and mummies are almost never unwrapped for study anymore.
Yet “the scary image of this dead body plus the curses that we actually find in tombs” continue to make mummies a recurring interest for horror fans — or at least they do when the story understands what makes mummies interesting to horror fans.
And it’s not just horror fans who understand and embrace the mummy’s ongoing cultural relevance; Casey also noted that Egyptologists tend to universally love the Mummy films — perhaps more than they love actual mummies.
“They are just dried-out corpses,” he said. “They’re pretty gross.”
Tommy Wiseau’s 2003 film The Room is by many accounts the worst movie ever made. The plot barely makes sense, the set design is comically inept, and most of the dialogue sounds like it was fed through Google Translate multiple times. Yet for 14 years, people have been congregating at midnight screenings all across the globe to watch what some call “the Citizen Kane of bad movies.”
The production of The Room is the stuff of legend. The script started out as a 600-page book, which Wiseau translated into a stage play before finally settling on a screenplay. He allegedly raised money to shoot the film by importing and selling Korean leather jackets. He also simultaneously shot the entire film on two cameras, one 35mm and one digital, because he says he didn’t understand the difference between the formats.
I talked to Tom Bissell, who co-wrote a book about the making of the film called The Disaster Artist and has seen the film more than 100 times. He says:
It’s fascinating to watch somebody who has total belief in themselves and no evident talent for the medium they’re fanatically pursuing to throw themselves into the maelstrom with as much force and enthusiasm and boundless belief in themselves as Tommy does in that movie.
According to Bissell, the film gets its “bizarro power” from the fact that it’s “a movie that was made by someone who had maybe seen some movies but didn’t really understand how they were supposed to work.”
Despite the film’s incoherency, audiences ritualistically throw plastic spoons, shout call-and-response lines at the screen, and toss around footballs in the aisles at monthly screenings. Knowing all the inside jokes and participatory cues gives viewers what sociologist Pierre Bourdieu termed “cultural capital.” People who know when to shout specific lines or when to hurl spoons are deemed Room veterans.
Contrary to what you may think, researchers have found that an appreciation of this kind of “trash cinema” can actually indicate higher levels of intelligence. Trash films share more characteristics with avant-garde art films than they do with typical commercial Hollywood fare. Audiences are drawn to both “trash” and “art” films for many of the same reasons, like their transgressive nature and their rejection of mainstream aesthetic norms.
Watch the video to learn more about The Room, and pick up Bissell’s book (which he co-wrote with Greg Sestero, one of the film’s stars) to read many more legendary stories about the production of the “best worst movie.”
Every week, a few members of the Vox Culture team gathered to talk out the latest episode of The Handmaid’s Tale, Hulu’s adaptation of Margaret Atwood’s 1985 novel. This week, critic at large Todd VanDerWerff and staff writers Constance Grady and Caroline Framke discuss the season finale, “Night,” and the first season in full.
Caroline Framke: Over 10 episodes, The Handmaid’s Tale has done its utmost to be a study of power: how to attain it, how to keep it, how it can lead to widespread corruption that seeps into every splintering crack. Like Margaret Atwood’s original novel, the series has been a study in how finding a will and a way to be defiant under oppressive rule can be all the oppressed have — and how the reality of having to be a hero can be both harder and easier than you ever imagined. It can be as hard as trying to smuggle a package out of an underground brothel, or as easy as looking at a stone you were supposed to throw at someone’s skull and just dropping it onto the frozen ground.
But outside of those grander themes, The Handmaid’s Tale is also just about a mother being desperate to find the daughter who was taken from her, and the hell she endures in the aftermath of that heartbreaking event.
The Handmaid’s Tale has an awful lot of tricky elements to balance, and the strain of that task showed in the middle of its first season as flashbacks and tangents focusing on people other than the actual Handmaids overshadowed most everything else. But “Night” is a really good season finale, if only because it manages to tie together so many of the season’s most pressing conflicts and themes and the characters they center on: June’s fear versus her determination, Serena Joy’s impotent fury, the Commander’s willful oblivion. The season’s final scene is almost exactly like the book’s, with June being taken away in an Eye van. The biggest difference, though, is a crucial one: A test confirms that June is pregnant.
Between that, Moira’s escape to Canada, Serena trying to keep her Handmaid in line by almost literally dangling June’s daughter in front of her as collateral, and the Handmaids’ refusal to stone Janine to death, there’s a lot to talk about. How did you both like the finale? Was it a satisfying end to the season and/or a decent setup for season two?
Constance Grady: For me, this was the most successful ending — and the most successful use of ironic pop music — that the show has managed since its stunning first three episodes. The final shot of June's serene face in the Eye van struck exactly the right note of ambiguity: She is either about to be punished horrifically for her crimes or to escape because Nick is secretly an undercover member of the Resistance (and let's face it, that's the most likely outcome), but either way, she has decided she will not be ground down. And in Gilead, that is a radical act.
When The Handmaid's Tale first introduced the idea that there could be something subversive and powerful about being a Handmaid, back in episode four with that triumphant power walk, it did so clumsily. June's exultant, "We're Handmaids. Nolite te bastardes carborundorum, bitches" — after she convinces the Commander to let her leave the house — felt at best unearned and at worst malignant. It felt like part of the same ideology that suggests that soft power, which is the ability to influence those who actually have power to act on your behalf, is secretly preferable to hard power, which is the ability to actually act on your own behalf. Who needs the right to vote if you can convince your husband to vote the way you want him to, right? Who needs to be legally considered a person if you can manipulate your owner into overruling his wife and letting you walk outside?
But in "Night," The Handmaid’s Tale works its way back around to finding an emotionally true way of thinking about the power of the Handmaids as a caste. It's a power that lies less in the ability of the Handmaids to manipulate their way to survival, and more in their ability to find solidarity with one another, to stand together and resist.
Of course, June is most likely going to miss facing the full consequences of that resistance, because she is probably on her way to Canada. So next season, I hope the series somehow finds a way to show us what happens to the other Handmaids who followed her lead.
Caroline: I was really encouraged by the way the stoning ended up unfolding (which is not a sentence I ever saw myself writing). Both on the show and outside of it, via statements from its creative team, Hulu’s adaptation of The Handmaid’s Tale has gone out of its way to emphasize women’s culpability in their own subjugation, addressing the lengths some people will go to to maintain their own power by pitting women against each other (such as with the Commander’s wives often being more ruthless with the Handmaids than their husbands).
Like you said, Constance, the Handmaids’ refusal to stone one of their own shows how powerful unity can be. This may be an outcome Aunt Lydia and the others in charge of Gilead once feared, but as we saw in a flashback to June’s first day as a Handmaid, those in power also assumed they could shock and beat the fight out of the Handmaids. Whatever happens to the Handmaids next — and as Lydia says, “There will be consequences” — they’ve at least proved their oppressors wrong.
However, we're going to have to agree to disagree on the music, because man, did this episode's song choices bring me out of the episode. Nina Simone's "Feeling Good" — a powerful song when used right — just about killed the momentum of the Handmaids leaving the stoning, and Tom Petty's "American Girl" was timed so bluntly at the end that it left me frustrated and rolling my eyes.
But I know Todd feels differently. So Todd, won't you please tell us why these music choices were great and the finale was great and stop hating good TV, Caroline, god?
Todd VanDerWerff: "Feeling Good" I can defend less strenuously. I tend to think about music on TV not as how the showrunner wants us to feel, but as how it feels to be inside the character's head at that moment. So I bought June being jubilant in that moment. Her life doesn't leave much room for such emotion, and this is a big win for her. I've also always found that song a little sadder and more desperate than most people do, I think. Nina Simone's voice is so world-weary that it's not hard to find those hints here and there.
But "American Girl" I thought was pretty much perfect. Talk about a song that’s laden with melancholy but hides it via seemingly enthralling melody! And I thought it worked well here, in particular, because director Kari Skogland staged the scene so that as the doors of the Eye van close, cutting us off from seeing June, Elisabeth Moss gradually turns to look directly at camera. But you can barely see it, because the light is being removed from the shot. It does what I want a TV season's final shot to do, in summarizing essentially the entire season to this point, and I don't think it would’ve worked if the music didn't seem so effusive.
That said, I thought "Night" was pretty close to the best finale this season could have had. I might quibble with a few decisions here and there, but I have no outright complaints. The episode isn’t at the level of The Handmaid’s Tale's pilot or that devastating third episode, but it's right up there. Between it and the ninth episode, I imagine there will be a few sighs of relief among those of us who bet on the show, then worried slightly as various midseason missteps seemed to portend worse things to come.
Indeed, I can't count all the times this finale walks right up to the edge of doing something disastrous, then backs away. The package June secreted away in her bedroom, for instance, simply turns out to be a huge bundle of letters that Handmaids have written to tell their stories, rather than a bomb or something. Choosing the emotional beat over the action beat at this point in the show's run is the smart move, and it gives the non-stoning additional heft. (Similarly, Moira and Luke reuniting in Canada benefits from being played in a more muted fashion than you might expect.) This approach doesn’t apply to every storyline — we saw Warren get his hand cut off! — but it applies to most.
Or maybe I just loved that “Night” put June right back at the center, and Moss's tremendous performance with it. Watching her dissolve at the sight of Hannah in one of those tiny pink robes was almost too much to bear. Something that's so close is still so far out of reach, indeed.
Constance: I agree that the last shot of “Night” is just about perfect, and part of what makes it work so well is the way it plays off a shot of June that we see halfway through the episode: She's walking down a staircase, and the camera lingers for just a beat too long on her stomach, cropping her head out of the frame. Gilead wants to turn her into nothing but a pregnant womb with no identity of her own, and June keeps fighting to assert herself, to bring her identity and her face back into focus — and at the end of the episode, she's finally able to do so.
This episode made me think about showrunner Bruce Miller's recent remark that the most intimate relationship in The Handmaid's Tale is the relationship between June and Offred, between June's desire to escape Gilead and assert her own personhood and Offred's desire to comply and stay safe. Because totalitarian states destroy trust, the only "person" June can trust to be completely open with her is herself — and ultimately, her struggle isn't with Gilead in the form of the Commander or Serena Joy, but with Gilead in the form of her own fear.
That idea puts June's regular stream of inspirational speeches and voiceovers into some context, in that the show seems to be thinking about them as a series of episodes in her fight with herself, but I still think a lot of them were too clunky to be as dramatically effective as they were intended to be. That said, when June dropped the stone in "Night," it felt earned: She was choosing to direct her anger toward Gilead, instead of letting Gilead redirect her anger onto a probably blameless target the way she did during the Salvaging all the way back in episode one, and we could see the emotional impetus for it.
Todd: I should say here that my assumption is that June will be back in the Waterford household next season, reporting on Waterford to the Eyes. Her pregnancy is too good of a screenwriting "ticking clock" for the show to put her in another location. So take all of the below with a grain of salt if she does end up in Canada.
But I loved the way "Night" framed June's pregnancy as something that finally weaponized her, in a way. She doesn't want this pregnancy in the slightest. But if she was already unlikely to lose her life for stepping out of line as a fertile woman, there's much more she can get away with now that she's pregnant, and some part of her must know this. For nine months, she has an added layer of protection that will let her, say, scream curse words at Serena or try to pit the Commander and his wife against each other.
Now, it's not like June is going to suddenly become a revolutionary. The conflict inside her is still there, and Gilead almost assuredly has thought of ways to subjugate pregnant women, despite their value to the country's overall fertility project. June's life won’t stop being an unending nightmare. But the first half of this episode is just a long series of shoes dropping, and June's dropping a lot of them. Pregnancy hasn't given her anything even close to freedom, but it has given her the opportunity to be a little more reckless. I'm excited to see that side of the character.
Caroline: June’s pregnancy is one of the most shocking things to come out of this season, but in retrospect, I really should’ve seen it coming. If The Handmaid’s Tale is to live beyond the scope of its source material, it was only a matter of time before a pregnancy re-complicated things. This development puts a huge rift in June’s world. But we looked on as she desperately, ferociously snarled at Serena that Serena is an “evil bitch” and a “motherfucking cunt” while they drove away from Hannah; June knows she can be bolder now that she’s fulfilled the one duty Gilead believes in the most.
“Night” also contextualizes the fact that June’s biggest, boldest action to date happens after finding out she’s pregnant, after spitting fire at Serena and getting nothing but ice in return. Even though it’s incredibly brave to drop the stone, June knows she can do it and walk away, even if there are other consequences. The fact that the rest of the Handmaids immediately follow suit is what makes the moment extraordinary.
It also brings the subtext of the Handmaids’ collective horror — previously traded through quick glances from behind their bonnet wings — into stark text that’s impossible to ignore. It’s the kind of action that, like Constance said, might have felt cheap or unearned earlier on in the season, but 10 episodes later, we not only know the weight of this action but feel it.
I think that’s partly why I wasn’t quite as moved by the final sequence as either of you were. The moments leading up to June making her slightly smirky way down the Waterfords’ staircase and the credits smashing to “American Girl” were saturated with voiceover, verbatim from the book, telling us exactly what we’d already understood from June’s face before, during, and after the stoning. It was an unnecessary recap that, for me, undercut the power of the moments themselves — a deflating balloon instead of the piercing burst it could’ve been.
Constance: That final voiceover is absolutely overly literal, but I was honestly a little relieved to hear it. It's just about word for word the last few lines of the book, before the epilogue, in which Offred heads off to her final ambiguous fate, and I think part of the reason the final sequence works so well for me is that it’s devoted to hitting the creepy, anxious release of tension that makes the end of Atwood's book so moving. We've talked a lot in these recap discussions about how much The Handmaid’s Tale has struggled to make its end-of-episode catharsis tonally consistent with the claustrophobia of the rest of the show’s universe, but that kind of release — which is also somehow a little oppressive — is exactly the kind of emotional register Atwood excels at capturing.
Would it have been more artistically compelling if the show had found a way to hit those notes without having Moss recite Atwood's exact words at the same time that we saw them dramatized? Yeah, probably. But to be honest, I don't entirely trust this show to get there on its own. I'm okay with it keeping the Atwood training wheels on when the song it's playing (to mix my metaphors wildly) is this impressive.
Caroline: I can accept that! And I can also agree with Todd that “Night” is by and large the best finale this season could have had. It centers June and the Handmaids in a way the middle of the season largely forgot to do. As those letters in June’s bundle reminded June of the fact that she and her fellow Handmaids were and are people — each starring in their own Handmaid’s Tale — it felt like the show was remembering the same. If season one was all about deconstructing how power shifts and steals agency and pushes people to their moral edges, I hope season two’s story finds a way to give power back to those who need it most.
The entire first season of The Handmaid’s Tale is now available to stream on Hulu.
Halfway through his interview with filmmaker Oliver Stone, whose latest project is a new Showtime documentary series in which he interviews Vladimir Putin, Stephen Colbert blinked in surprise behind his glasses.
“Anything negative you found?” the Late Show host asked. “Anything? Or does he have your dog in a cage someplace?”
The audience laughed, but Stone decidedly did not. “Maybe it’s because you hate Trump,” he replied, “... or don’t trust him ... Russia is convenient as an excuse for hacking the election.”
Neither the studio audience nor Colbert himself seemed to know quite what to make of this comment from a man who spent two years corresponding with the Russian president — which is emblematic of just how bizarre the entire interview was.
Colbert had started the segment seriously, insisting that when he has “an Oliver Stone” type on the show, “I want to talk about philosophy, I want to talk about politics, I want to talk about what is truth, what is not truth, what we can understand, so: let’s talk about Vladimir Putin.” He then kicked off the interview by bringing up the fact that early reviews of the documentary, titled The Putin Interviews, are saying that Stone is “too cozy” with his subject, that he “believe[s] him too easily.”
Colbert, who has not yet seen the documentary, pointed to the clip The Late Show had played before Stone walked onstage, in which Stone pressed Putin on reports that Russia interfered in the 2016 presidential election. Putin rejected the charge, at which point Stone promptly ended the interview for the day.
“I took that at face value,” Stone said. “This is an important point that he keeps insisting on.”
Colbert then asked Stone, point blank, if Stone likes or trusts Putin. Though Stone tried to deflect by saying Colbert should just watch his film, he conceded a couple of points that made Colbert raise his famously agile eyebrow so high it almost disappeared into his hairline.
“[Putin is] the head of state; he has his own interest of Russia in mind. I respect him for that,” Stone said. “I know why he’s doing it — he’s a strong nationalist. ... I never heard him badmouth the US. ... He still wants a partnership. That I can tell you.”
Stone even said that he’s “amazed” by Putin’s “calmness, his courtesy,” especially because “he’s been through a lot; he’s been insulted and abused.” In response, the audience — which had been eerily quiet to this point — started to laugh. Stone tried to clarify that he meant Putin had been abused “in the press and the media,” but the damage was done.
“Putin is an oppressive leader of his country who suppresses the free press and arrests his enemies,” Colbert said. “That is not something that I as an American or a member of the press can respect. And I am surprised that you respect that.”
Stone’s reaction? “No question, he’s a social conservative in that way.”
At this point, the audience fully burst into laughter, a fact that confused Stone enough that he said he didn’t understand why that was so funny. And to be fair, even as Colbert cracked that it was “a mild description” of Putin’s policies, he didn’t seem to think it was all that funny either.
You can watch the entire very strange interview in full in the clip above.
Conspiracy theorist Alex Jones has spent years trying to convince people that the parents of children slain at Sandy Hook Elementary School are liars.
Now freshly minted NBC host Megyn Kelly, formerly of Fox News, is giving him a mega platform to cast his doubt on them once again in one of the first sit-down interviews of her new Sunday night show.
After a teaser for the show, which will air this Sunday, was released, Kelly was blasted on Twitter for giving Jones airtime, with calls for a boycott to support the Sandy Hook parents. Advertisers have subsequently pulled ads from NBC, and Kelly was dropped as the host for a Sandy Hook fundraiser.
In the preview, Kelly attempts to be tough with Jones, and accuses him of dodging her questions. She said in a statement that she interviewed him to “shine a light” on an increasingly important media figure. An NBC executive also defended the program, saying there was value in having Jones sit down for an interview.
POTUS's been on & praises @RealAlexJones' show. He's giving Infowars a WH press credential. Many don't know him; our job is 2 shine a light. https://t.co/5e88BJyqnz
Reporting on Jones makes sense; he has indeed gained prominence since the last election. But a serious sit-down interview was a poor choice of format for covering him. It’s extremely difficult to have a reasonable exchange with a person who regularly rants and spews nonsense, as Jones does. It’s like running a straight one-on-one with a climate change denialist or someone who refuses to accept the Holocaust happened.
Jones doesn’t live in reality, and Kelly’s interview risks validating him and disseminating his bullshit. It doesn’t leave space for context and debunking.
It also sends the message that in an era of “fake news” and a president who regularly attacks the media, hoaxers like Jones are worthy of an hour of primetime TV to share their ideas.
If Jones’s words didn’t have dangerous real-world consequences, it wouldn’t matter much that he’ll soon have this megaphone. But they do — from spurring people to violent action to undermining institutions such as the media, science, and government.
If you’ve ever watched hours of Alex Jones’s Infowars, as I have, you might come away steeped in a dark and distorted view of the world. Jones alleges that 9/11 was “an inside job,” that the Sandy Hook massacre was designed to get Americans to side with gun control, and that there’s a secret fungus epidemic spreading across the country and slowly killing Americans.
He delivers these bizarre claims, and many others, red-faced, in his signature husky rasp. They’re framed as truths the mainstream media and elites are hiding from public view, with Jones as the bearer of the truth.
The president of the United States, meanwhile, has applauded Jones and perpetuated falsehoods that originated on the show, like the suggestion that Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama started ISIS and that the election was rigged. Along with Breitbart and Fox News, Infowars was one of the keys sources of information for conservatives in the last election. (The White House recently gave Infowars press credentials.)
This is one reason Jones’s audience is growing: Jones is now broadcast on some 150 radio stations, with a website that reaches more than 6 million unique US users each month and a YouTube channel that has more than 2 million followers — numbers that rival those of mainstream media outlets.
But his lies have also had real consequences for real people. The parents of the Sandy Hook victims have been harassed by “Sandy Hook truthers” spurred on by Jones. Even last week, a woman who claimed Sandy Hook is a hoax got five months in prison for threatening the father of a Sandy Hook victim.
There was also the so-called Pizzagate scandal late last year. Jones often talks about the pedophile rings that elites are helping to organize, and his suggestion that Clinton was running one out of a pizza restaurant in Washington, DC, was the reason a man walked into that shop with a gun last year threatening to kill people.
In April, Jones was entangled in another legal skirmish that once again demonstrates how seriously people take him. On the show, he’s argued that the Chobani yogurt company’s practice of hiring refugees has brought “migrant rapists” and tuberculosis to areas near their factories. The claim activated his audience, prompting people to boycott Chobani products, and the company is now suing Jones for what it says are “false” and “defamatory” reports.
We don’t know what the full interview holds, but the teaser suggests Jones will roll out his standard erroneous rants on topics like 9/11 and Sandy Hook.
And family members of some of the 26 people who were killed in the Sandy Hook massacre are furious. In tweets, Nelba Márquez-Greene, whose daughter Ana Grace was killed in Sandy Hook, admonished NBC and Kelly for their decision to showcase Jones:
Every week. 5 years later. Still harrased by truthers. You do NOT give crazy a platform. You're better than this @nbc https://t.co/aIPM73FZgr
Here you go @megynkelly - her name is Ana Grace Márquez-Greene. Say her name- stare at this & tell me it's worth it. @nbc #SandyHook pic.twitter.com/mKrU63KWmA
So did many others who are standing with the families.
Shame on @NBCNews and @megynkelly for normalizing that creep Alex Jones. It's time to boycott and protest to  @NBC advertisers #SandyHook
Instead of airing the sit-down, NBC could run an annotated interview, where it could use the exchange to explain to viewers what Jones gets wrong — about 9/11, Sandy Hook, the HPV vaccine, etc.
The network could also use the opportunity to give its viewers context on how a figure like Jones has gained such a huge following, and what it means that Jones can count the president among his fans.
For now, the teaser suggests that Jones will be shown sitting across from the anchor, as heads of state, important authors, and serious scientists have in NBC interviews before him. It suggests he’ll be given lots of latitude to promulgate nonsense.
The president told Jones in a 2015 interview, “You have an amazing reputation.” And he’s been known to share Infowars articles and videos. Kelly has a choice between helping Jones become even more “amazing” — or treating him the way he deserves to be treated: as a reservoir of falsehoods that have serious and dangerous repercussions.
Original Bad Feminist Roxane Gay has not been having an easy book tour, but you wouldn’t know it by the interview she did with Trevor Noah on The Daily Show on Monday night.
Gay’s new book is called Hunger, and it’s about her experience navigating the world as a fat person. But it’s not, she hastens to clarify, a weight-loss memoir.
“Generally when people write about weight, there’s a woman standing in half of her fat pants on the cover,” she told Noah. “And she’s smiling, like, ‘Look what I’ve done!’”
Instead, Gay’s book is about how she responded to a horrific childhood trauma — she was gang-raped at age 12 — by becoming fat. “My world was shattered, and I just thought, ‘I want to be stronger. I want to be bigger,’” she said. “I thought, ‘If I eat a lot, those boys won’t do this again, because I’ll be able to fight them next time. And they won’t want to do this because I’ll be fat, and boys don’t like fat girls.’”
Hunger chronicles the way Gay’s world has shrunk since she became a fat person. She describes how people take food out of her cart at the grocery store or offer her unsolicited nutritional advice at her book signings. She talks about the double horned dilemma of whether or not to buy an extra airplane seat when she flies. “The bigger you become, the smaller your world gets,” she told Noah. “No matter what you do, you can’t fit, and the world is not really interested in creating a space for you to fit.”
The palpable disdain with which our culture treats fat people has extended even into Gay’s book tour. On Sunday, a podcast that interviewed her blurbed the episode by discussing the interviewer’s fears over whether or not Gay would fit into the office elevator. (That blurb has since been removed.)
Oh Mamamia. When good intentions just do so much damage... this is appalling pic.twitter.com/Kni2nKpvkp
“It is cruel and humiliating,” Gay wrote on Twitter.
“My body is not a problem,” she said to Noah on Monday night, but much of the world still seems to want to believe that it is.
A week ago, Bill Cosby walked into the Montgomery County courthouse in Pennsylvania to begin his trial for sexual assault. The 79-year-old comedian is accused of drugging and sexually assaulting Andrea Constand, a former Temple University employee.
If convicted, Cosby is facing up to 30 years in prison.
The prosecution took five days to make its case, calling 12 witnesses to the stand, including Constand. She testified that Cosby, a notable Temple alumnus, offered to mentor her but instead took advantage of her at his home just outside Pennsylvania in 2004.
She alleges that Cosby gave her three pills which he claimed were herbal supplements. "Put them down, they're your friends. They'll take the edge off," Cosby told Constand, according to Constand’s testimony. "I said, 'I trust you.' I took the pills and I swallowed the pills down."
Constand claims that Cosby waited for the drugs to take effect and then placed her on a couch and sexually assaulted her.
The defense, on the other hand, took less than a day to make its case: It called just one witness to the stand. It lasted six minutes.
The Washington Post called the defense “startlingly brief.” The New York Post said Cosby’s lawyer “all but threw in the towel.”
Does the brief defense signal anything substantive about the quality of Cosby’s case? How unusual is a move like this? What tactical or strategic goals might it serve? Is it as simple as Cosby’s legal team being unwilling to put him on the stand, or does it mean they don’t think the prosecution has proved its case?
To answer these questions, I reached out to Diane Marie Amann, a professor of criminal and constitutional law at the University of Georgia.
Here’s what she told me.
How unusual is it for the defense to rest so quickly in a criminal case like this?
When the defense rests abruptly, that’s a sign either that the prosecution case is weak or that putting on a defense case would only make things worse. Typically, it’s a little of both.
Is there an obvious strategic or tactical reason why a defense lawyer would take this approach?
The prosecution has the burden of proving all charges beyond a reasonable doubt, of course, and so if jurors have seemed skeptical about the prosecution’s witnesses or other evidence, the defense well might choose simply to reinforce that skepticism through closing argument.
Is there another reason why Cosby’s lawyer might have no choice but to rest in this way?
Sometimes the defense has little choice but to rest. That’s because when a defendant testifies that the charged conduct didn’t occur, he opens the door for prosecution rebuttal evidence. This could include what are called bad-character witnesses ready to testify that the defendant committed similar bad acts on other occasions.
Can we or should we infer anything about the quality of Cosby’s defense from this?
News media have reported over the years both that the defendant admitted obtaining drugs and that the chief prosecution witness is not the only woman who's accused him of criminal behavior. Assuming those allegations are true, it was wise for defense counsel to rest quickly.
If you’re Cosby’s lawyer and you’re 100 percent confident in your case, is this a wise strategy?
Putting in testimony or other evidence denying the prosecution's case would have opened the door to this other evidence. It's hard to imagine a scenario in which jurors would have felt more favorable to the defendant after hearing such evidence than if they did not hear it at all.
I think a lot of people are interpreting this as pointing toward Cosby's likely guilt, but you seem to be cautioning against that interpretation.
Yes. Given what has been reported, it seems like a wise decision by defense counsel. And again, in run of the mill criminal cases, it is not at all unusual for the defense to concentrate on attacking the prosecution's case through cross-examination of prosecution witnesses, rather than attempting to defend itself by calling its own witnesses.

Sometimes lawmakers can’t resist trolling Donald Trump. One Democrat is trying to take a misspelled Trump tweet all the way to the House floor.
Rep. Mike Quigley (D-IL) introduced a bill on Monday that would amend the Presidential Records Act to include Donald Trump’s personal Twitter account. The bill’s name? The “COVFEFE” Act.
The PRA — first enacted in 1978 following the Nixon administration’s Watergate scandal — governs how records of presidential communication are collected, archived, and made public. The bill’s full title is the “Communications Over Various Feeds Electronically for Engagement Act” and it would add “social media” to the list of documentary materials preserved under the PRA and send Trump’s tweets to the National Archives. It would also make deleting tweets from this account a violation of the PRA subject to “disciplinary action.”
The current language of the PRA does list any form of “electronic communication” as worthy of archiving, but Quigley’s bill makes specific mention of “social media” in reference to the president’s personal Twitter account. Something that is probably a long time coming, seeing as press secretary Sean Spicer said last week that Trump’s tweets are all official White House statements. Despite the Trump administration’s insistence that his tweets are not worth reporting about, it’s clear they have become an integral part of the president’s communication efforts.
As for the name, the acronym “covfefe” is a tongue-in-cheek reference to the viral Trump tweet in which the president misspelled the phrase “press coverage.” Trump had been in the middle of writing a late-night tweet complaining about his treatment by the media and apparently published a typo. The mistake was immediately picked up and joked about all over the internet. The original tweet has since been deleted.
Years of research and billions of dollars were spent to bring us this Internet and this is what we get #thankyouinternet #covfefe pic.twitter.com/mNGf9uJ8cY
In response, Trump tweeted a joke of his own.
Who can figure out the true meaning of "covfefe" ???  Enjoy!
Trump inherited the official @POTUS Twitter account — which President Obama used to announce policy positions and general White House news — but he prefers to use his personal @realDonaldTrump account, which has nearly twice as many followers. This has raised questions as to how that account will be handled after his time in office.
A press release from Quigley’s office states:
While his personal account has become the de facto account for government business, it is unclear as to whether or not it would be archived in the same manner as the official @POTUS account under the Presidential Records Act.
And Quigley is no stranger to creative, Trump-related bill titles. In March, he introduced the “Making Access Records Available to Lead American Government Openness (MAR-A-LAGO) Act,” requiring publication of visitor logs to the White House or any other places where President Trump regularly conducts official business including his Florida Mar-a-Lago resort. The Trump administration last month announced that the White House visitor logs would be kept secret.
According to Government Accountability Office stats, Trump’s trips to the “Winter White House” in Florida cost taxpayers nearly $10 million in his first month in office.
Wonder Woman beat the boys’ club at the box office.
This weekend, Patty Jenkins’s new entry in Warner Bros.’ DC movie universe took in an estimated $57 million, according to Box Office Mojo — around a 45 percent drop from its opening weekend. And while drawing just over half the number of opening-weekend viewers may not sound impressive on the surface, that figure is actually really great news for Warner Bros. and the team that put the film together.
When it comes to superhero movies — all movies, really — the drop between an opening weekend and its second weekend is often precipitous. Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice saw its box office haul drop 69 percent from its first to second weekend, and Suicide Squad had a decrease of about 67 percent. So Wonder Woman’s second-weekend box office numbers are pretty stellar compared with those two movies — in fact, as BuzzFeed’s Adam Vary points out, Wonder Woman had the best second weekend of any modern superhero movie, in terms of first-to-second-week domestic box office decrease:
Box office: With $57.2M, #WonderWoman has the lowest 1st to 2nd domestic weekend drop for a modern superhero movie. It is a phenomenon. pic.twitter.com/OcssHZ5nYR
When you add in foreign box office, Wonder Woman sits at around $435 million in its first two weekends — a figure that shatters the initial projections for the film, which was tracking for an estimated $65 million opening weekend domestically.
These numbers matter to both fans and Hollywood insiders, because there’s unbelievable pressure on Wonder Woman to not only be a good movie but also do well at the box office. It’s an unfortunate reality that in the past, poorly received female superhero movies like Catwoman and Elektra have been cited as a reason not to create more superhero movies centered on female characters.
Though a sequel hasn’t officially been announced, Wonder Woman’s successful box seems to indicate that a second Wonder Woman film is a no-brainer at this point. THR reported last week that negotiations for director Patty Jenkins to return for a second movie are expected to begin soon.
If the uproar over Shakespeare in the Park’s production of Julius Caesar — in which the title role is obviously staged to look like Donald Trump — sounds eerily familiar to you, then you might be a Naked Gun fan.
On Monday morning, journalist and editor Jared Keller pointed out on Twitter that a scene from the zany 1988 spoof The Naked Gun: From the Files of Police Squad! contains a gag that reads like it’s ripped, literally, from today’s headlines.
Here’s the clip:
In it, the mayor warns Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) that she doesn’t want any more trouble like last year’s on the south side. “Understand?” she says. “That’s my policy.”
“Yes, well,” he says, looking more than a little pompous about it. “When I see five weirdos dressed in togas stabbing a guy in the middle of the park in full view of 100 people, I shoot the bastards. That’s my policy.”
“That was a Shakespeare in the Park production of Julius Caesar, you moron!” she shoots back at him as Drebin stares and then gulps. “You killed five actors! Good ones!”
I asked Keller (who said he’s subscribed to the “Frank Drebin Theory of Politics” for years) about the clip. “There’s a growing cottage industry of reexamining pop culture from the past several decades for clues to Trump's ascendency, but this clip from one of the most raunchy and raucous comedy franchises of the pre-9/11 era — one centered on the ascendency of milquetoast incompetence within institutions of power — is particularly depressing,” he said.
The Trump era, more than any other presidency, seems tailor-made for a pop cultural reading. Everything from Citizen Kane to Lego Batman seems to forecast the president’s rise — not to mention many of Shakespeare’s plays. And as Vox’s Caroline Framke pointed out, last week’s James Comey’s testimony before Congress was a genuine pop culture event that felt like a reunion special for the reality show that is the Trump administration.
And the Naked Gun resonance is so close that it almost feels like someone’s trolling us. “Life imitates art, just three decades later and in the worst possible way,” Keller said. “Frank Drebin is the perfect avatar of modern-day law-and-order politics: Overwhelming oblivious, belligerently simplistic, and blindingly white.”
While the resonance between the Naked Gun scene and the Julius Caesar outrage is really just a funny coincidence — I think — it also points to the problem that’s at the root of the whole Shakespeare in the Park incident. The “outrage machine” on the internet and in the media is often fed by a fixation on bite-sized, surface-level readings of cultural artifacts that don’t take into account the fuller context. It’s like focusing on the language rather than what the language is saying.
When Drebin sees “five weirdos dressed in togas stabbing a guy in the middle of the park in full view of 100 people” without realizing he’s seeing a play, it’s not all that different from seeing five actors stabbing someone who looks like the president and failing to realize what the point of the story is.
Drebin’s response to his surface reading is to “shoot the bastards.” In this case, at least, one hopes life will not continue to imitate art.
The 71st annual Tony Awards, honoring the best and brightest of Broadway for the 2016-'17 season, handed out 24 golden statuettes on Sunday night. Actor and former Tony winner Kevin Spacey hosted, in a ceremony that had fewer big-band song-and-dance numbers than past Tonys telecasts, and a lot more impressions of various men who were relevant in 1993.
As expected, the runaway favorites in the musical acting categories took away the top prizes: Broadway legend Bette Midler picked up the prize for Best Actress in a Musical for her turn in Hello, Dolly!, and Pitch Perfect’s Ben Platt took away the Tony for Best Actor in a Musical for his role in Dear Evan Hansen.
Dear Evan Hansen was the big winner of the night. In addition to Platt’s Tony, it also won in the categories for featured actress, book, score, and orchestrations, as well as getting crowned Best Musical. It was the crowning achievement in a very good year for Benj Pasek and Justin Paul, the songwriting team behind both Dear Evan Hansen and La La Land.
Here are all of the winners at the 71st annual Tony Awards.
Dear Evan Hansen
Bette Midler, Hello, Dolly!
Ben Platt, Dear Evan Hansen
Hello, Dolly!
Oslo
August Wilson’s Jitney
Christopher Ashley, Come From Away
Rebecca Taichman, Indecent
Andy Blankenbuehler, Bandstand
Alex Lacamoire, Dear Evan Hansen
Rachel Bay Jones, Dear Evan Hansen
Laurie Metcalf, A Doll's House, Part 2
Kevin Kline, Present Laughter
Steven Levenson, Dear Evan Hansen
Benj Pasek & Justin Paul, Dear Evan Hansen
Cynthia Nixon, Lillian Hellman's The Little Foxes
Gavin Creel, Hello, Dolly!
Michael Aronov, Oslo
Mimi Lien for Natasha, Pierre & The Great Comet of 1812
Nigel Hook, The Play That Goes Wrong
Santo Loquasto, Hello, Dolly!
Jane Greenwood, Lillian Hellman's The Little Foxes
Bradley King, Natasha, Pierre & The Great Comet of 1812
Christopher Akerlind, Indecent
Non-competitive awards
James Earl Jones
Baayork Lee
Dallas Theater Center
Gareth Fry & Pete Malkin, Sound Designers for The Encounter
Nina Lannan & Alan Wasser
Every time I read a book by Megan Whalen Turner, I immediately have to flip to the beginning and start the whole thing over again. Not just because her books are so fun — although they are — and not just because her characters are so witty and likable and compelling — although they are — but because invariably, the ending comes with a revelation that completely changes the way I see the whole book, and I have to go back and read it again for the pleasure of seeing all the signs that I missed the first time.
Turner won the Newbery Honor Award in 1996 for her first novel, The Thief, in which a trickster named Gen sets off on a quest for a sacred object called Hamiathes Gift. Since then, she’s published four additional novels set in the same world —The Queen of Attolia, The King of Attolia, A Conspiracy of Kings, and now Thick as Thieves — devoted both to Gen’s continuing exploits and to the elaborate, Machiavellian political intrigues going on all around him. Her books are a careful examination of how to achieve and consolidate political power, and they’re perfectly structured heist novels to boot.
I sat down with Turner to discuss her most recent book, Thick as Thieves, and how it fits into the larger universe of the Queen’s Thief series — and the problem of writing fantasy without repeating Tolkien. Our conversation has been edited lightly for length and clarity.
Related
I wanted to ask you a little about the development of this incredibly complex political system that you have in your world. Did you know when you started out that it was going to be as complex as it turned out to be, or does it sort of reveal itself to you with every book?
Well, when I wrote The Thief, I had meant for it to be a standalone novel, but the complexity of the political system was always there. I pruned out some of the information that didn’t have to go in to actually support the story of The Thief, but I  really wanted to make a world where you had a sense that there were more and more and more countries. That there was an entire fantasy world as opposed to like, three nations in a void surrounded by nothingness.
Historically, even if Ancient Greece didn’t know anything about China, China was still there. I wanted my fantasy world to be like that right from the beginning.
I know that a lot of the political maneuverings in your world have historical antecedents. What would you say are the most important of those antecedents?
The most important thing I can point to is the landscape. Twenty-five years ago, when I was trying to find a setting for a story that I had in my head, I couldn’t write until I figured out where to set it. I went to Greece in 1992, and I thought, “This is perfect, because it gives me that opportunity to have these small nation-states, and an empire on the other side of the body of water.” Really the most important thing for the whole story is figuring out where to set it, so that the geography supported the story that I wanted to tell.
And then, yes, the story that I wanted to tell had a lot of things in it, like things that happened around the Mediterranean in the past 3,000 years. But it’s a mix and match of the past 3,000 years, it’s not like I picked one time period and I’m trying to mimic that. It’s more like I read a lot about the ancient world, and then evolved it further. So it’s like a Byzantine level of technology, but it’s not supposed to be an echo of the Byzantine world. By the time the Byzantine world had gone on, the Mediterranean was really a very different place than the world that I’m imagining.
When I was reading Thick as Thieves, I kept waiting — I’m going to try to be vague and unspoilery — for certain characters to reveal what tricks were up their sleeves, because I knew from the other books that they always have tricks up their sleeves. How do you balance the expectations of a reader who is coming to the book with those expectations, versus a new reader who isn’t waiting on tenterhooks for that reveal to come?
I’m always simultaneously writing, not so much for the new reader versus the old reader, but the reader who’s on the inside and the reader who’s on the outside. So when I first wrote The Thief, it was really important to me while I was writing it — because I thought that some significant part of my audience was going to cotton on early, and I didn’t want it to be really boring and frustrating for the people who figured it out on page 33 — I deliberately wrote a book that would be satisfying for someone who already knew what was going to be revealed at the end of the book.
So when I’m writing Thick as Thieves, I’m writing for people who already know some things that I’m going to reveal. And at the same time, I’m writing for people who don’t.
Actually, it’s a little bit the same, because it’s amazing how when you put things right under people’s noses that they don’t see it. So when I’m writing, the little fan-service moments that I would put in, that I know my in-the-know reader would be like, “Whoa, that’s so great!” are exactly the same things that I put in for the reader that’s never read it before. And the meaning of those things changes; they’re double entendres. I love the double entendre, where if you know something, this phrase means something completely different.
But all of those things, they really serve a purpose to the reader for building the world. So I guess the answer is, the way I handle it is that I love doing those two things at exactly the same time.
Do people tell you that they figured out the twist in The Thief very early on? That surprises me, but then I was 9 when I read it the first time, so I guess I couldn’t have figured it out.
The thing is, if someone tells you there’s a twist, you’ll find it. The main reason The Thief worked so well when it first came out is that I never hinted that there was going to be a twist. People were used to the idea that if there’s going to be a twist ending, the author’s like rubbing her hands and saying, “Twist ending coming! You’re never gonna get this!” And I didn’t do that. I was completely straight-faced about the whole story, and people were surprised.
Back in the last century, when librarians were writing reviews for Kirkus and Horn Book and everything, they were writing for librarians, who were not supposed to care about whether there was a spoiler or not. This was a professional review for other professionals who need to know how the book ends before they give it to a kid, right? What was amazing — and I think was one of the biggest reasons that I got the Newbery Honor — is they didn’t. They didn’t spoil it. They didn’t even say, “Ooh, big twist coming!” And so all of these people read the book, and they were surprised. They were professionals, and they didn’t expect to be surprised by something written for 12-year-olds.
It was really important that there weren’t spoilers in the reviews, and really important that people didn’t even get a hint. Because if you hint, yeah, people figure it out.
I wanted to ask a little bit about the pretty jarring tonal shift between The Thief and The Queen of Attolia. How did you arrive the decision to make that change?
I knew, when I was writing The Queen of Attolia, that it couldn’t be in first person. Because he [Gen, the protagonist] is a whiny, sarcastic, snarky, funny, self-deprecating, cutting, insulting, occasionally unkind, totally-a-jerk-at-times character. And he was going to be in a really, really dark place. And if it was in first person, he was going to lose everything that people had come to the book to read for, because it would either be really sad and depressing, or he’d be really whiny.
He was whining for large stretches of that first book, and it’s one thing to see that from the outside, but very difficult to see it from the other side and still either remain sympathetic or not be totally devastated. So I decided third-person would have to be the way that book would go.
But I also realized, after The Thief got the Newbery Honor award, Barbara Bastow from Cuyahoga County Library said, “Where’s the sequel?” And I thought, “Whoa. I have all this other information that I had to cut out when I wrote The Thief, because I thought it was a standalone. I could do so much more with this! I know where everything’s going!”
And I could have written, like, four books where he just keeps stealing things, and I knew that people would really like it. But I also knew that the next important thing that happened in the storyline would be that he gets caught. And that he would have to be caught, because he was just going to keep pushing the envelope. That’s who he was, is the person who pushes the envelope until everything comes crashing down.
And so that was obviously going to have to be — I mean, I just skipped over the four books and went right to the next big thing, which is, he gets caught. And yes, it was dark and sort of surprising.
It was very surprising to me when I found it. But I loved it.
Not everybody does. I get hate mail. Just every once in a while, I get, “How could you?”
It’s a difficult scene to read, that opening. Was it difficult for you to write?
It was, but it was really important, I thought, that it happened at the beginning of the book. I hate suspense. I am such a softy. I write these incredibly violent books, and I just, I do not like to know that there’s a train wreck coming. I hate watching train wrecks. I much prefer that we just have our horrible thing, and the whole rest of the book is recovery. And so although it starts in a very dark place, the whole rest of the book, things get better and better and better and better. That’s the kind of story arc I like.
The Thief is about 21 years old now, so it’s just about old enough to buy a drink. What makes you keep coming back to this world? What makes it your playground of choice?
Well, largely the fact that when Barbara asked me for the sequels, I saw this enormous story arc. Right from that moment it spooled out, like one of the best internal movies ever. I’ve just been slowly working my way through everything that I wanted to say about all of these people.
So do you have lots more ideas coming of how everything’s going to develop?
Well, I’m working on the next book now. I’m trying very hard not to get distracted by people who suddenly started cropping up with other storylines.
Can you say anything about the next book, or is it all under wraps right now?
It’s pretty much under wraps right now. Because I take so long sometimes to write books — because I have taken so long sometimes to write books, not that that’s going to happen again — I try not to tease people with stuff, because I feel like it’s mean. It’s not funny, it’s just mean.
Other authors who know that their books are coming out in eight months can say things like, “A major character dies in book seven of Harry Potter,” but people only have to wait eight months. God forbid, you spend eight years thinking, “Who died?! Who died?!”
So as a habit, I don’t like to talk about what’s going to be in the upcoming books. At least not until they’re in print, on their way.
Can you talk a little bit about some of the authors that you imprinted on as a kid who you find have influenced you?
How long do you have? Because Thick as Thieves was originally meant to be the second half of The King of Attolia, but then The King of Attolia got to be like this big and it was its own book. And I thought, “I will finish this book and then I will write Thick as Thieves,” and so I finished King of Attolia and then I wrote Conspiracy of Kings. That just happens. And I knew that the reason that I wanted to tell the story of Thick as Thieves is I wanted to revisit a story that meant a lot to me by Rosemary Sutcliff, who was a British author who wrote historical fiction set in the Roman Britain era.
My favorite — one of my favorites — one of my many favorites by her is The Eagle of the Ninth. In The Eagle of the Ninth you have somebody — he’s a newly made centurion coming to Britain, and he’s all excited, and he has a whole plan for his life: He’s going to be a soldier. He’s going to get his pension in 20 years, and then he’s going to go back and he’s going to buy back the family farm in Italy.
By the end of the first chapter, he’s been in his first battle. And his leg has been so badly broken that he’ll never be a soldier again. So there go all of his plans, right? So he goes on this quest, essentially, to Scotland, to retrieve the lost eagle from the ninth Roman legion. And he takes with him the gladiator that he accidentally bought, as you do. It’s a physical journey, and it’s a psychological journey for both of them, because they both have had their plans for their whole life go up in smoke, and of course they both come back free men.
Reading Sutcliff, I asked myself for the first time, “Who gets to be the hero in an adventure story?” Because Sutcliff wrote the kind of stories she liked to read when she was in the hospital for long periods of time in her childhood, because she had juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. At this time all the boy books would have been in the boy ward, and all of the, quote, “girl books” would have been in the girl ward, and she didn’t want to read Pollyanna. She wanted to read Treasure Island. She had to have a nurse bring those books to her. And she grew up to write these fabulous adventure stories.
But here’s a guy who can barely walk, who’s the hero. I thought it was really interesting who she chose to be the hero of her story. And I knew I wanted to revisit that story with Thick as Thieves, but I wanted it to be about Kamet [a minor character in The Queen of Attolia who becomes the protagonist in Thick as Thieves]. I wanted to focus on his story. And one of the things I realized after one whole draft in third person is that it really had to be his voice telling his story.
Why was that?
Because — how long do you have? — because when I first started writing The Thief, I was trying really hard not to set a story in Middle-Earth. I wanted to do something different from Middle-Earth and from standard fantasy, and I’ve only realized over the years how much I’m influenced by people like Joan Aiken and Peter Dickinson and Rosemary Sutcliff, and Tolkien and Lewis and Lloyd Alexander, right?
So here I am, trying really hard to be different, and I’m writing quest novels. It’s like, I could have called them the Fellowship of the Hamiathes Gift. I realized I’m writing quests, still. And in some sense, Thick as Thieves is a quest. The soldier in my story has been given a job by his king, and he’s absolutely determined to carry that job out. So for him, it’s a quest.
It’s not his story. It’s Kamet’s story. And for him, this is not a quest story. I just really felt like his voice had to be the one telling his story, instead of him being essentially an object of the story.
The 71st Annual Tony Awards was a relatively quiet affair compared to last year’s historic event, but the show still had the power, as newly minted Tony winner Bette Midler put it, “to lift your spirits in these terrible terrible times.” Midler was talking about her award-winning revival production of Hello, Dolly, but it’s an apt description of the Tonys at their best.
Related
Dear Evan Hansen stole the spotlight with its win for Best Musical and a slew of other awards, while Hello, Dolly walked away with laurels for Best Revival of a Musical, in addition to Midler’s trophy for Best Actress in a Musical. But as always on awards night, there are official winners and there are losers — and then unofficial winners and losers. Here are seven highlights from the latter for the 2017 Tonys.
NOBODY plays @BetteMidler off. #Shutthatcrapoff #TonyAwards2017 pic.twitter.com/VYk9LaQzhF
“Shut that crap off,” said Hello, Dolly’s Bette Midler breezily, plowing right through the playoff music during her acceptance speech for Best Actress in a Musical, her first Tony win. Without missing a beat, Midler thanked a litany of creatives, friends, and teachers, and then sailed into a laudatory description of the musical itself, outlasting the attempt to play her off. Midler’s speech lasted 4 minutes and 14 seconds; then she went offstage and continued to thank people, like the ultimate diva.
BETTE MIDLER YELLING "SHUT THAT CRAP OFF" AS THEY TRY TO PLAY HER OFF IS HOW I'M TRYNA BE EVERY SINGLE DAY OF MY LIFE
Plus, Midler probably saved us an embarrassingly self-laudatory House of Cards skit from Kevin Spacey, which appeared to be truncated at the end of the night. Thanks, Bette. We owe you all the Tonys for that one.
After Tina Fey turned down the invitation to host this year’s ceremonies, the Tonys reportedly sought a staid host who would neither sing nor dance. Instead they wound up with Spacey, who, despite being a longtime stage veteran, is primarily known as a star of film and TV dramas. He brought his best singing game to the Tonys’ opening number, turning in a tongue-in-cheek medley about his desperation to host. Alas, the song went on too long and was a little too inside baseball to please critics, who were dissing the number even before the ceremony was over.
Viewers were considerably more positive about Spacey’s overall performance. But a couple of inexplicable impressions Spacey did of Johnny Carson and Bill Clinton seemed outdated and out-of-touch, and a bit that saw him team up with his Usual Suspects co-star Chazz Palminteri just increased the feel of surreal time regression.
Kevin Spacey is killing the Tonys in 1993
To his credit, though, it was Spacey who earned the best laugh of the evening when he quipped late in the ceremony that “I wanna get the hell out of here before Bette Midler thanks anyone else.”
Throughout the night, Platt, the wide-eyed 23-year-old star of Dear Evan Hansen, continually charmed the Tonys viewership, whether he was slaying the show’s opening number, “Waving Through a Window,” or interacting with presenters from his seat in the audience.
@BenSPLATT pic.twitter.com/v2Arz2EsCC
The actor fully embodies the role of Evan Hansen’s title character, a socially anxious teenage wallflower who learns to embrace his individuality and find his voice. On Sunday night, he acted his heart out while showing off vocal chords apparently made of molten steel. The audience couldn’t get enough, but then it’s hard to overstate how much Platt’s breakout performance as Evan Hansen has impacted Broadway audiences.
Ben Platt isn't just giving the performance of a lifetime, he's giving the performance of *our* lifetime   ‍♂️
Platt’s manic, excited speech for his entirely predictable win for Best Actor in a Musical just sealed the deal. “Don’t waste any time trying to be anybody but yourself, because the things that make you strange are the things that make you powerful,” he said. Evan Hansen couldn’t have said it better himself. Plus, actors who bring their parents to the ceremony, as Platt did, always win.
After a film awards season that was rife with charged anti-Trump speeches, the Tonys were downright balmy in terms of political temperature. Except for a few one-off mentions here and there, politics barely raised its head during the ceremony.
Kevin Kline, who won for Best Actor in a Play, briefly mentioned the ever-embattled National Endowment for the Arts and the National Endowment for the Humanities, while Rebecca Taichman, who won Best Director of a Play for Indecent, thanked her parents “who taught me to follow social justice,” an increasingly charged description of left-wing politics. In the Tonys press room, Taichman spoke more forcefully on the subject of the importance of the NEA and NEH, as did Bette Midler. But apart from these minor and backstage mentions, political issues were largely absent from the evening.
More noticeable was the utter lack of engagement with the theater controversy of the  weekend — a production of Julius Caesar at the Public Theater’s annual Shakespeare in the Park program. After right-wing news outlets and reviews discussed the presentation as Trumpian, sponsors like Delta and Bank of America began to pull funding from the program. (It’s worth noting that a similar 2012 production in which Caesar was an Obama-like figure drew raves from conservatives.)
With all due respect, this is the important news in the theater tonight. Let's see if Spacey or anyone ar #TonyAwards takes it on. https://t.co/pRU5FmsJVt
But critics hoping for the Tonys to address this controversy — in the same vein as the awards memorably did last year when the ceremony aired the same day as the Orlando Pulse nightclub shooting — were disappointed. The evening’s most pointed political comment was a soft-shoe from presenter Stephen Colbert, who, without naming Trump directly, spoke of a surprising new production opening out of town. “This DC production’s supposed to have a four-year run, but reviews have not been kind,” Colbert quipped. “Could close early, we don’t know.”
An ecstatic Benj Pasek and Justin Paul made their mark on the Tonys for Best Score for a Musical after nabbing both the Golden Globe and the Academy Award earlier this year for contributing the lyrics to La La Land’s “City of Stars.” The two theater kids started their collaboration while still in college, producing a string of cult favorites like 2012’s Dogfight. Their score for Dear Evan Hansen is already beloved. (The duo’s Evan Hansen collaborator, Steven Levenson, also took home a Tony, for Best Book of a Musical.)
“We hoped to write a show where people who were looking for a home would find one,” Paul gushed, but it was clear that for the two of them, winning the Tony was their ultimate homecoming.
Despite being one of the most nominated productions of the evening, the critically acclaimed revival of Hello, Dolly trotted out its stodgiest look for the Tonys — a mustachio’d David Hyde Pierce looking like a confederate colonel and singing one of the musical’s weakest numbers, “Penny in my Pocket.”
The song was cut from the original Broadway production but still appears in the revival, and while Pierce has drawn raves for his performance, the Tonys setting did him no favors. In front of a young audience clamoring for Platt’s Evan Hansen, Pierce, just like Spacey, seemed hopelessly out of place. Why couldn’t Dolly have just played to expectations and put on its Sunday clothes?
Rachel Bloom, the star of The CW’s musical theater-infused Crazy Ex-Girlfriend, was having an absolute blast as the Tonys’ backstage correspondent. This time she didn’t charm us with her usual song stylings, but with her endless glee — and series of progressively tinier hats — as she greeted a string of stage stars, all of whom she seemed to be as awed by and excited to interact with as any diehard musical fan would.
Rachel Bloom is such wonderful representation for those of us who have Zero Chill
Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Dogfight was a Tony-nominated musical; it was exclusively an off-Broadway show. The article also incorrectly stated Hello, Dolly had the most nominations of the evening; it had 10. Natasha, Pierre and the Great Comet of 1812 had 12.
Ever since that shot of Sarah Palmer watching a wildlife documentary in the Twin Peaks premiere, I’ve been toying with the idea that the whole show is, on some level, about the act of watching television, of sitting back passively and taking a story in, rather than trying to become a part of it.
On its surface, the season’s sixth episode would seem to support this hypothesis the least. It doesn’t feature scenes of characters watching TV, or really any screens of any sort. It features a lengthy sequence where Cooper — still in the guise of Dougie Jones — draws ladders and staircases and swirling black vortexes all over the insurance case files he’s been tasked with completing at home. It occasionally feels as if it takes place in an era pre-television, until you’re reminded that it’s taking place very close to our present.
But this episode also captured a lazy rhythm that the rest of the season has been pushing toward. It really felt, at times, like sitting on your couch and flicking through the channels, looking for something to watch. Except we’re not the ones running the remote. David Lynch is the one in control of the remote. And just when you might feel invested in one story, he flips away to something else.
Is that a little cruel? Maybe. But the series suggests something in the juxtapositions anyway. Or maybe we’re all like the people who do stop to watch in this episode — the bystanders of a horrible hit-and-run accident who simply stand around amid the gory aftermath, even as an old man named Carl (played by the great Harry Dean Stanton) seems to implore all of them with his eyes to do something.
And then — blip! — the channel changes.
The viewers of this season of Peaks seem to be split roughly down the middle. There are those, like me, who are enjoying its weird meandering and occasional feints toward openly trolling its audience, because the show’s naked emotionalism and bizarre sense of humor provide all the undercurrent we need to keep going.
And then there are those whose patience is being tried by all of the above. Twin Peaks has never been about straightforward, completely coherent storytelling, but the original series did have more forward momentum than this. This is the second week in a row where the biggest plot development in an episode was Cooper-as-Dougie (whom I’m just going to call Dougie, if you don’t mind) learning a new phrase or two.
If you’re not as into the idea of Dougie standing in for a whole theory of the self, or how we construct our identities, or whatever, I get it. The story is taking its sweet time getting to anything, and Dougie is the one story that’s mostly moving in a standard progression. So if you’re feeling bogged down in it, well, your patience is probably starting to fray.
But even setting Dougie aside — and I’m still digging everything about him — the slow, kaleidoscopic view of these characters and this world that Twin Peaks is offering is really something else. It’s not that the show is anti-viewer, or anti-plot, or anything like that. It’s that it keeps flitting between a bunch of different shows, all of which are progressing at their own rhythms, then drawing little connections here and there, when and where it can.
So you might be watching that scene with the hit-and-run, only to realize that the yellow flame rising from the dead boy’s body looks very like the little green torches that Dougie has seen to signify when someone is lying, or when a slot machine is ready to pay out a jackpot. Or you might note the way the coin flip that seems to hang in mid-air for eons (before landing in a man’s mouth!) feels exactly like something that would play out in the Black Lodge.
I’ll be the first to admit that telling a story this way runs the risk of trying certain viewers’ patience — especially if it never adds up to anything concrete (and Twin Peaks is not really known for adding up to easy explanations). But seeing it done as well as it’s being done here, or seeing how casually the show will drop in the reveal of the oft-mentioned, never-before-seen Diane (played, as long theorized by fans, by Laura Dern), or Hawk finding what appear to be more pages of Laura Palmer’s diary, in the middle of everything else, makes me enjoy all the more every little connection being drawn.
And the biggest one of them all? There’s a whole lot of murder happening.
Nearly every episode has featured a sequence like the one in this episode, where a little person races into a woman’s office and starts wantonly stabbing her. We’d previously seen him getting the order to kill this woman — and Dougie! — in an earlier scene, and given Mike’s earlier warning to Dougie (“Don’t die”), the murderer’s very presence carried with it certain ominous undertones.
But this miniseries has been suffused with awful, sudden, violent deaths. Now, granted, this has always been a show that was kicked off with the death of a teenage girl, with her killer ultimately revealed to be her own father, possessed by a dark presence, who had abused and raped her from an early age.
Yet the miniseries has taken this to a new level. Murder and death will come out of nowhere, destroying everything, and the characters have as little warning of it as we would in real life.
Yes, viewers are shown the assassin getting the image of the woman and Dougie earlier in the episode, but enough time passes — or Lynch flips through enough channels — between that scene and the murder of the woman that it recedes a bit in the memory. So when it arrives, it feels terrible and random. (Also beautifully Lynchian: the assassin cooing slightly over his bent knife after committing murder. He really loved it!)
This is, I would argue, a good thing. What TV does too often is numb this sort of crime, numb this sort of pain. It turns death into just another plot point, and if you get bored, you switch the channel to something else. But by replicating watching TV with the remote in hand, flipping over to something new when you start to zone out, Lynch forces you to pay attention to all of this. When horrible death can arrive at any time, in any storyline, it ceases to feel like a plot point and more like a thing that can happen out of nowhere.
In its original incarnation, Twin Peaks was uniquely tuned into the medium it existed within, both a part of the greater TV landscape and utterly unlike anything else. What if this Twin Peaks is doing the same thing? What if all that random death exists on the same continuum as the random death on countless other TV series? What if this story isn’t pointing forward, but outward, toward the rest of television itself? The offices of Dougie’s insurance firm, for instance, look a little like the offices of Mad Men’s Sterling-Cooper, don’t you think?
I wouldn’t want every show on TV to be like this, but I’m glad this one is, and I’m glad Lynch is the one holding the remote. When this miniseries is all said and done, we may look back on it and realize that it was about all of the ways television desensitizes us to the world all along.
Orange Is the New Black’s fifth season is a staggeringly ambitious piece of work, unlike any other TV season I’ve ever seen.
It’s also a huge mess, at times borderline unwatchable. The show’s always-jarring tonal shifts — between comedy and drama and any other genre you can think of — start to feel as if they’re in poor taste when dropped into the midst of a season about a prison riot. The flashbacks to the inmates’ lives before prison have less and less bearing on the action of the show. And there are multiple bizarre storytelling decisions, including a late-season homage to slasher films that is simultaneously played for horror and cutesy laughs.
Rating
And yet it’s hard to shake. This is probably the show’s least successful season, but I’d hesitate to call it its “worst” season. Its epic sweep and intimate storytelling offer up something that’s completely unlike anything else on TV — including the previous seasons of Orange Is the New Black.
It’s about a dream of a better world that everybody involved knows can never come true. It, at times, offers a nearly Shakespearean view of its little prison society, complete with characters swapping outfits to put on new guises of the self, and one character speaking largely in monologues about the absurdity of the characters’ situation as the season goes on, like the Fool in King Lear. It’s a mess, but maybe it has to be a mess to get to the places it goes in the end.
So let’s dig into the good, bad, and wondrous of season five. And beware, because there are...
The first two seasons of Orange focused on, respectively, Piper Chapman’s first few weeks in prison and the growing war between Red and Vee. They remain the two seasons when the show felt as if it had most penetrated the public consciousness, the seasons that got nominated for major Emmys, the seasons that spawned all those “Which inmate are you?” personality quizzes.
Season three was messier, by design, telling the story of the last few moments between Litchfield prison’s change from a public institution to a privatized one. And season four revealed its cards late, as the show built a slow-boiling but ultimately damning critique of corporate influence over American life and the tendency of businesses to think of human beings as numbers on a ledger.
The tack everyone involved in season five seems to have taken is to offer a suggestion of what sorts of systems might be better, both specifically when it comes to the prison industrial complex and more generally when it comes to society as a whole. To do this, the season turns Litchfield from a prison to a sort of women’s commune in the wake of a riot that overthrows the usual power structure. The guards become hostages, and the prisoners go about setting up an ad hoc society, while Taystee (the amazing Danielle Brooks) attempts to negotiate better living conditions for the prisoners with MCC, the corporation that runs Litchfield.
This means that the entire season takes place over about 72 hours — give or take — with the first six episodes taking up only 24 or so. It’s an incredibly compressed timeframe to tell a story in, one that only heightens the connections between this show and HBO’s classic Western Deadwood (where every season covered a little over a week in the life of the titular town).
Thus, if you didn’t like the scattered nature of seasons three and four, season five offers stronger focus. And if you’re someone like me who tends to shy away from those “every season is its own movie!” sorts of shows, the long-standing character histories and complex web of plots in Orange means that season five never gets bogged down by the sorts of lulls those stories can be done in by. However...
The hallmark of Orange Is the New Black is that it can never entirely be pinned down. It might offer up a screamingly funny scene right next to one that ends in tragedy, and then it might cut to another character offering a soliloquy to the powers that be or a representative of the prison or a chicken. It has bizarre tonal shifts because it knows that life has bizarre tonal shifts, and its overwhelming empathy for everybody onscreen carries through no matter the storyline.
But for the first time, season five made me feel the hand of the writers in its need to shove some comedy into the proceedings, lest they become too dark. (A prison riot is not a great vehicle for laughs.) Too often, the show will desperately cut to something that’s supposed to be funny, and it will only be so in theory, or it’s played for laughs despite being in murky moral territory.
Related
As an example: Season four’s greatest strength might have come from the way it depicted the horrors of torture and the way even mild forms of such abuse grind down and dehumanize those who are subjected to it. Too often, season five turns such torture — or even suggested sexual assault of the guards-now-hostages — into a joke.
Could this be grist for a great story? Sure. But the season too often seems scared to really run with its “what if the prisoners ran the prison?” idea as a metaphor for life at large, which leads to many of these tonal issues.
Season five of Orange sometimes feels like one of Shakespeare’s great tragedies awkwardly mashed up with one of his great comedies, to the degree that some of the season’s most horrifying scenes are immediately followed by a marriage proposal. (Hey, that reminds me of Much Ado About Nothing.)
But it’s also one of the few TV shows out there that genuinely earns the comparison to the Bard. In particular, the season uses Suzanne (Uzo Aduba) as an analogue for the truth-telling Fool from King Lear after she goes off her mental illness medications, and offers up a dueling trio of Rosencrantz and Guildensterns, hanging back from the action but always there to comment on it.
Perhaps not coincidentally, this was my favorite season for star-crossed couple Alex (Laura Prepon) and Piper (Taylor Schilling) in quite a while — using the two simply to offer snide commentary on the injustices around them while attempting to wash their hands of them fit the season’s overall critique of power structures and those who unknowingly perpetuate them.
But it also has fun with characters trying on different guises — a nice suit Warden Caputo (Nick Sandow) brought to the prison flits from character to character, and still others put on guard uniforms, while a different character decides to hide out in the prison as an inmate, rather than the MCC employee she is — and with the sort of convoluted, coincidental plot twists that marked many of Shakespeare’s plays. Hell, there’s even a séance where a very significant ghost might be contacted, and the show’s flashbacks resurrect characters who have long since left the series.
Orange always indulges in puzzle-piece storytelling, where every little thing is significant, and it all eventually adds up to a full picture. That’s always reminded me of how Shakespeare’s plays combine lots of little details and many characters with very different motivations into one big, satisfying whole. And when it comes to Orange, season five might be the apex of that approach.
The first is to bring the brutish Piscatella (Brad William Henke) into Litchfield during the riot, so he can stalk around the prison in the middle of the night, abducting and tying up inmates like he’s in a Friday the 13th movie. Even the show seems to know this is sort of a dumb idea, because the characters keep commenting on how unlikely it is and comparing it to, well, a Friday the 13th movie.
But for as dumb as the slasher episode is — and it’s so dumb — it at least gets the series to a place where it can explore one of its favorite themes, the difference between justice and mercy.
When Red, who has lost so much at the hands of Piscatella, ultimately decides to let him go rather than hold him hostage any longer, it feels like a decision with real weight, like her act of mercy would have a real impact on his life, if he weren’t shot seconds later by law enforcement agents invading the prison. (This is the kind of sick twist Orange delights in, and usually pulls off.)
But a far worse exploration of the idea of mercy versus justice occurs in the story of Pennsatucky (Taryn Manning), who ends the season ensconced in domestic bliss with the man who raped her in season three. She’s escaped prison and gone to his apartment, and when he arrives home, the two simply settle onto the couch to watch TV together.
The character’s decision to ultimately forgive her rapist so she could move on made for a powerful moment in season four, but the growing flirtation between the two didn’t make a lot of sense in season five. I have every faith in the world that the show is going somewhere with this — but the reconnection between the two is played far too much as some hopeful romance just getting its legs under it, which feels like a strange choice all around.
Honestly, this season of Orange gets better and better the longer it goes (though, weirdly, the slasher homage is dropped into the middle of the otherwise very good back half of the season), and the final three episodes go from strength to strength. The series has never lacked for strong finales, but this one just might be my favorite.
There’s a simple reason why: It’s an episode that genuinely attempts to answer the question the whole season asks. Can you build a better society? Or is it always doomed to fail because of the forces of the status quo waiting at the door to tear it down?
I won’t lie: It’s a convoluted road the series takes to a point where it gets 10 of its most important characters together in a room, waiting for law enforcement to enter, knowing that some of them might die. There are a lot of plot holes and missteps along the way. But that doesn’t negate the power of the closing passages of the season, or of the other characters being separated as the riot ends and they’re put onto different buses, presumably to go to other prisons.
Orange has never shied away from the idea that there are crimes worth punishing. But it’s also never shied away from the idea that justice is something for institutions to mete out (usually poorly) and mercy is something human beings should generally try to show to each other. We are weak and fallible, and we might feel like we only have so much kindness to give to each other. But it’s a necessity, when what others might call justice comes to blow in the door, guns at the ready.
Orange Is the New Black is streaming on Netflix.
Broadway cast albums are great, but there’s nothing like actually seeing a musical, with all those fancy details like dancing and staging and facial expressions. The only problem is that if you’re not in New York, actually getting to a show can be cost prohibitive, even if the show’s not already sold out into eternity like Hamilton.
That’s part of what makes the Tony Awards so valuable. Every year, the telecast features excerpts and medleys from all the musicals nominated for Best Musical or Best Revival — and for thousands of theater kids around the country, it’s the closest they’ll get to actually seeing the current season’s shows.
So to prep for Sunday’s 71st annual Tony Awards, here are the eight best Tonys performances of the past 15 years.
John Doyle’s minimalist production of Sweeney Todd makes the already dark show pitch black. In this stripped-down production, the actors tote around instruments to accompany themselves as they tell the story of the demon barber who kills his customers and bakes them into pies.
Both Michael Cerveris, who plays Sweeney, and Patti LuPone, who plays his accomplice Mrs. Lovett, appear again later in this list, and in this 2006 Tonys performance it’s easy to understand why: They have the kind of rich, plummy voices and unforced stage presence that Broadway dreams are made of.
Mama Rose, the controlling and conniving stage mother of Gypsy, is a classic diva part. To really pull it off, you need someone with the kind of charisma that can bring the house down. So thank goodness for Patti LuPone, who won her second Tony for the role and in this 2008 performance brought the audience to its feet the moment she started singing. Listen to the barely controlled shake in her voice as she starts in on the last “Everything’s coming up roses and daffodils,” and the way it builds into a full-on snarl as she rips her letters apart. The number concludes with a beautifully nasty moment of emotional unraveling that lets you see right into Rose’s cold, indomitable heart.
Before Hamilton, there was In the Heights, Lin-Manuel Miranda’s first Broadway musical about a Latino community in Manhattan’s Washington Heights neighborhood. A lot of other performances on this list are dominated by a single brilliant singer, but this 2008 medley is, like most of Miranda’s best work, a true ensemble performance. Its most thrilling moment comes at the end of the number, when all of the individual melodies that have been building throughout the song come together in a single wall of sound.

Six years after its 2011 debut, The Book of Mormon, by South Park creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone and composer Robert Lopez, is still one of the funniest shows on Broadway. And as you’ll see in this performance from the 2012 Tonys, from the stalwart, aw-shucks earnestness on Andrew Rannells’s face as he outlines his beliefs to the blank amazement on Brian Tyree Henry’s face as Rannells bursts into his camp to the deadpan simplicity of the musical’s joke structure — everything just works. Plus, that deceptively simple melody is such an earworm that you’ll catch yourself singing, “I belieeeeeeeve that plan involves me getting my own planet!” all day.

Idina Menzel’s powerhouse voice is a mixed blessing: Composers love writing big, belty power ballads for her to murder at top volume, but they tax her voice so much that the live performances she does for awards shows don’t always showcase what she can do when she’s at her best. So her performance of Wicked’s “Defying Gravity” at the 2004 Tonys was just okay; her rendition of Frozen’s “Let It Go” at the 2014 Oscars was, you know, nothing special. (Of course, she had the Adele Dazeem thing as an excuse in that latter case.)
But she’s in top form during this number from the 2014 Tonys, playing a grieving widow who is deciding at long last to give up her grief. (One might even say she’s … letting it go.) (I’m sorry.) That final, soaring note has the audience standing for a reason.

At the 2014 Tonys, Neil Patrick Harris shows us all why he won that year’s Best Leading Actor award for his starring turn in John Cameron Mitchell’s weird and lovely rock musical about a genderqueer singer from East Berlin named Hedwig (music and lyrics by Stephen Trask). As Hedwig sings about the American GI who gave her favors in exchange for sex, Harris, fully in character in fishnet stockings and skyscraper heels, gives Sting a lap dance and licks Samuel L. Jackson’s glasses (Jackson’s look of utter shock in response may be the best moment of the whole thing). And that’s Harris’s real-life husband, David Burtka, he’s kissing at the end there. It’s a live performance that’s queer and anarchic and awkward and sexy — everything Hedwig is at its best.

Be honest: This clip made you cry. Fun Home was the 2015 season’s runaway hit, and as you watch pint-size Sydney Lucas’s Alison experience her first moment of identification as she sees a butch lesbian, it’s easy to see why. Listen to her sing, “I thought it was s’posed to be wrong, but you seem okay with being strong,” and just try to keep your eyes dry while you wonder where someone that small keeps so much emotion.

Hamilton’s official Tonys performance last year — “The Battle of Yorktown / World Turned Upside Down,” in costume and with full choreography — was great, but for sheer joy and elation, you can’t beat their surprise closing number. Fresh off of winning 11 Tonys, including Best Musical, the cast came out to perform an abbreviated version of “The Schuyler Sisters” in their formalwear, voices shaking just a little with excitement. It was a celebration not just of their enormous achievement, but of Broadway itself, and of the joy of being alive right now in New York City.
The Tonys — the most earnest and warm-hearted of all the major award shows, even if they only barely count as major — are back! Kevin Spacey will be hosting the 71st annual Tony Awards ceremony, recognizing excellence in Broadway theater, on Sunday, June 11, at 8 pm Eastern on CBS.
The Tonys ceremony is nominally there to grant awards to this season’s Broadway shows, both musicals and plays, but in practice, its true job is to be an ambassador for live theater itself. Most of the country doesn’t have access to the theater performed every day in New York City, and even if you live in New York, tickets can be prohibitively expensive. For theater kids across the country, the Tonys telecast is the closest that they’ll come to actually seeing the alchemy of live actors doing their thing onstage, in front of a live audience.
To that end, the Tonys traditionally feature a lot of song and dance numbers. All of the nominees for Best New Musical and Best Revival of a Musical get a chance to show off their stuff. Other, non-nominated shows can purchase a performance slot if they wish, although the result is often just a little embarrassing. (Here’s looking at you, Royal Caribbean production of Hairspray.) And usually the host — often a songman like Neil Patrick Harris or James Corden — will launch into a prepared number or two, about how important theater is to children and how Broadway is not just for gays anymore. Sometimes there’s even a composer backstage who writes a song about the ceremony as it goes, and then the host frantically learns it and performs it at the end of the night (Hamilton’s Lin Manuel-Miranda wrote it in 2011).
But this year, in the absence of a deafeningly buzzy musical like Hamilton, the Tonys appear to be going in a different direction. Host Kevin Spacey isn’t an outsider to the community — he’s a theater vet who won a Tony in 1991 for the play Lost in Yonkers, and he’s been known to sing on occasion — but he doesn’t have the “theater kid” vibe of a James Corden or a Sean Hayes. In April, Michael Riedel reported in the New York Post that Tonys producers believed the show-stopping musical performances of the past few Tonys ceremonies to be “impossible to top,” and that they were searching for a host who wouldn’t sing or dance.
So when you tune into the Tonys on Sunday night, it’s safe to expect a lot of discussion of how vital and important live theater is, and how necessary it is to America’s cultural heart — but it’s an open question as to whether that moral will come in the form of a catchy song-and-dance number.
Where: Live on CBS. Or, if you subscribe to CBS All Access, you can live-stream coverage.
When: June 11 at 8:00 pm Eastern.
Why: Why not!
Every Sunday, we pick a new episode of the week. It could be good. It could be bad. It will always be interesting. You can read the archives here. The episode of the week for June 4 through 10 is “The New Frontier,” the second episode of the third season of AMC’s Fear the Walking Dead.
If a major TV drama kills off one of its most important characters, and the online TV discussion sphere doesn’t seem to notice, does it make a sound?
That’s a question I’ve been pondering all week in the wake of Fear the Walking Dead’s two-hour season premiere — technically the first two episodes of season three stitched together — which killed off one of the show’s main characters but seems to have barely caused a ripple in the places that drive so much of the chatter surrounding TV nowadays.
Oh, sure, the series’ showrunner, Dave Erickson, made the rounds to explain the call, and there were the usual shocked recaps and other reactions. But even two years ago, a storytelling choice like this would have prompted hushed, surprised reactions and a string of think pieces that talked around the big death while still trying to touch on how it affected television (as I am doing in this intro). As a point of comparison, even those who don’t like The Walking Dead buzzed about its comparatively shocking choice to kill off the protagonist’s wife four episodes into its own third season.
But here we are. It’s a week on from the Fear premiere, and there’s almost nothing. That says a lot about how much TV there is, how much favor the Walking Dead franchise as a whole has lost in just the last year, and how much less shocking TV deaths are in 2017 than they were a few years ago. But to unpack all of it, I’m going to have to tell you who died.
When Fear the Walking Dead premiered in 2015, it was sold as having two main differences from its parent series. First, it would begin shortly before the outbreak of the zombie apocalypse, where The Walking Dead began after the zombies had taken over the Earth. And second and most importantly, it would be, at its heart, a family drama about the complicated dynamics of trying to blend two families together, with zombies as the backdrop.
Related
To be clear, the series struggled to realize the second ambition. But I always admired the way it put first and foremost the struggles of Madison Clark (Kim Dickens) and her boyfriend Travis Manawa (Cliff Curtis) as they worked to turn their two separate families into one.
Madison’s husband passed away before the series began. Her son, Nick (Frank Dillane), was a heroin addict, and her daughter, Alicia (Alycia Debnam-Carey), was the sort of perfectionist who suggests someone trying desperately to hold themselves together. Travis, meanwhile, had to navigate co-parenting his son with his ex-wife. When the dead arose, these difficulties only became more fraught. The two families went on the run together, accumulating a few other characters along the way — notably the smooth-talking Strand (Colman Domingo) — but the core of the series was always the Clark-Manawa family unit.
The best stretch of episodes probably came over the first two-thirds of the series’ second season, when the characters escaped to Mexico on a boat, only to find that things weren’t any better south of the border. This was basically just The Walking Dead at sea, to be sure. But the ocean-bound setting, the slowly deteriorating family dynamics, and the generally strong ensemble cast made up for a lot.
Yet the longer the show went on, the more the Clark-Manawa family became… just the Clark family. Travis’s ex died at the end of season one, after a zombie bite, and his son perished near the end of season two, after leaving his dad to hang out with some American tourists turned murderous end-of-the-world opportunists. (This arc might have been interesting had it not felt like such a blatant attempt to give a previously bland character something to play.)
As season three began, then, Travis was the only Manawa left, while all three Clarks were still alive. And then, in the opening moments of episode two, Travis escaped a hairy situation with some of the other characters onboard a helicopter, only for someone on the ground to open fire on said helicopter. A stray bullet hit Travis, and he realized he would die and, thus, reanimate as a zombie. He took a last, long look at Alicia, then pitched himself out of the helicopter and to the ground below, where he presumably splattered. (The show did the courtesy of not showing us exactly what happened, but made sure to note that he had fallen from too great a height to survive.)
The sequence was so jarring and unexpected that when watching it for the first time, my initial thought was, “Geez. Cliff Curtis must have really wanted off of this show.” And given the actor’s recent casting in the Avatar sequels, maybe he did. (Erickson claims in the interview linked above that the plan this season was always to kill off Travis, but some versions of the story would have had him survive deeper into said season.)
Curtis is a great actor, and he and Dickens had an easy, lived-in chemistry. But there were moments, particularly in the second half of season two, when the actor seemed slightly disengaged from the material and when it became all the more clear that the show never had as firm a grasp on the Manawas as it did on the Clarks. That’s too bad.
But the fact remains: Killing your second lead in the teaser of your new season’s second episode is a pretty bold storytelling choice, no matter the reasons for having to make it. And yet how many articles have you read about Fear doing this? This one?
In 2016, Vox’s own Caroline Framke and myself collaborated on a project to calculate the number of significant characters to have died on TV in the 2015-16 season. We found, above all, that TV’s body count was ridiculously high, and we embarked on the project in the wake of a bunch of high-profile, controversial character deaths on a variety of major scripted dramas (notably The 100 and Sleepy Hollow).
TV’s death fever was, at the time, nothing new. Spurred on by Game of Thrones and, yes, The Walking Dead, killing off a character in a shot of sudden brutality was a good way to get people talking and goose a go-nowhere storyline. Indeed, the number of deaths had only been building throughout the 2010s, and it seemed as if it showed no signs of stopping.
Yet the 2016-17 TV season was less death-friendly on the whole. TV Line’s calculation of major deaths in May sweeps — a.k.a., season finale season — went down from the previous year for the first time since the site started calculating such things. And though TV was still killing off characters, few of them seemed to cause much discussion, outside of a handful of notable exceptions.
There are numerous reasons for this waning interest in the topic, but I might lay the blame most directly at the foot of Fear’s parent series.
When The Walking Dead killed off two long-running characters at the hands of the villainous Negan back in October, it was greeted not with critical praise or even audience intrigue. It was, instead, greeted with a sort of weariness: Not this shit again. Indeed, the show had spent all of summer 2016 teasing the question, “Who’s going to die?” and seemed to have forgotten that the answer would only be compelling if the audience cared.
It seemed to crystallize an argument I’d seen more and more TV fans making of late: Too many TV deaths didn’t have any resonance and were, instead, cheap stunts designed to get attention in a world of ever more viewing options, since a death was usually guaranteed to get you some attention on social media and pop culture sites. And yet that may no longer be as foolproof a plan as it once was, if the death of Travis is any indication.
Plus, the entire Walking Dead franchise as a whole has seemed, in the last year and a half, to have lost some of its cultural primacy. The ratings for the seventh season of the parent series were well off its sixth season ratings, and while Fear has always enjoyed solid viewership, it’s never come close to the level of the original show. There are only so many ways to do a zombie storyline, and the franchise may have finally stopped flirting with overkill and stepped right over the line.
A well-done TV death is still going to be like nothing else in the medium. It can have resonance and prompt earned wellsprings of emotion. But too many TV deaths in recent years have felt cheap and unearned, random acts designed to jolt the story forward. That has its place, especially on a horror show like either Walking Dead series, but push that button too often and you risk becoming a dead show walking.
Fear the Walking Dead airs Sundays at 9 pm Eastern on AMC. Previous seasons are available on Hulu.
“Oooh, okay, darkness!” actress Jenn Lyon said approvingly, reaching over to take a closer look at my shimmering black manicure. I played it cool, but I won’t lie to you like I did to her: that shimmery polish was 100 percent a trap for this exact occasion. After all, if I was going to talk to the cast of Claws — TNT’s new drama starring five tight-knit manicurists, premiering on June 11 — I figured I’d better come prepared.
But my own vanity aside: Claws isn’t at all like the sleek promotional event in which I met Lyons and her castmates, all decked out with fake palm trees and white walls splashed with neon pinks. The drama takes place in and around a dingy South Floridian strip mall, where ambitious salon owner Desna (Niecy Nash) rules with an iron fist and strategically sharpened nail extensions while the men trying to run a drug ring out of the back of the salon keep complicating things.
The show starts off not quite sure what its tone should be — it could stand to be either 10 percent more serious or 10 percent campier — but its Floridian noir aesthetic is immediately and undeniably different enough to help it stand out in the oncoming glut of summer TV.
Still: the best thing Claws has going for it is its cast, headed up by the ferociously good Nash.
Nash has been a reliably fantastic actor in comedies (Reno 911, The Soul Man), dramas (Masters of Sex), and everything in between (Getting On), but with Claws, she has a starring role that’s catered to her talents.
“So often times when I get [a script], it’s the sidekick, to someone, or you know, there’s a guy leading the charge,” Nash told me. “But this was like, five badass women leading the charge of this story, and I thought, ‘yeah.’ I wanted to be a part of it right away.”
Next to Nash, two of those “badass women” nodded vigorously. Lyon (Justified) plays Desna’s righthand woman Jen, while Carrie Preston (The Good Wife) plays Polly, whose “bless your heart” Southern sweetness keeps her together as she struggles to restart her life after being incarcerated for identity theft.
“It’s women supporting each other, not tearing each other down,” Preston insisted, before pausing. “For the most part.”
Lyon, no doubt thinking of the Claws scene in which Desna literally throws new manicurist Virginia (Karrueche Tran) out onto the street, chimed in. “I mean, we’ll throw down,” she said, laughing.
“For sure,” Preston replied, “but usually it’s in service of the group.”
And having seen the first episode, that’s a fair assessment. As leering men with too much power and not enough smarts get in deeper over their heads and abuse the women in their lives just because they can, Desna and her loyal employees slash best friends stick ever closer together. It’s not always the case — again, there is a literal beatdown in the salon’s parking lot — but more than the larger drug conspiracies or any inter-salon rivalries, the five women at the show’s center take priority.
“So many times when you put a lot of women in a movie or a TV show, it’s all about catfighting and all of that,” said Preston, “which becomes pretty uninteresting.”
To foster a real sense of sisterhood amongst the cast — which also includes Judy Reyes, sadly absent from the Claws brunch and its strawberry champagne floats — Nash said that she made it a point to “date the women individually” before they even stepped on set in Florida. “I came to New York and I was able to have lunch with Jenn, I hung out with Carrie at an industry party, I took Karrueche to dinner,” Nash said. “My favorite thing is the fact that it goes beyond what you see on camera.”
“We have a text thread between the five of us that goes all day long,” Preston added, as Lyon threw back her head and laughed that it’s just full of “stupid shit.”
But for Nash, the unequivocal star of the show (and it’s about time), getting the core cast to love and support each other in real life wasn’t just fun for sharing dumb links, but also crucial to having the same kind of dynamic translate on camera.
“There’s a real connective tissue underneath,” she said, then grinned, “which I think is delicious.”
Claws premieres Sunday at 9 pm EST on TNT, and will be streamed on Twitter at 10 pm.
Adam West, best known for playing a spandex-clad Batman on TV in the 1960s, has died at the age of 88. And even if you never watched the famously, gloriously campy Batman in which West starred, you probably knew he was Batman anyhow.
That’s because decades after his Batman years, West displayed a particular talent for playing “Adam West” on TV — not himself, but a fictional character like himself. Sometimes, he played the actor about whom people knew nothing except that he was Batman. Sometimes he played a character named Adam West who had nothing to do with Batman. And sometimes he just played a totally wacky character with an eerily recognizable name.
A quick perusal of his IMDB page makes it clear that any exhaustive compilation of his cameos and self-owns would be lengthy, ranging from cartoons to sitcoms to children’s shows. But here are seven that show the wide range and self-referential good humor that made West a recognizable figure even to those who never saw him as the Caped Crusader.
In one of the storylines from “Apollo Apollo” (season 3, episode 16), NBC chief Jack Donaghy’s 50th birthday is coming, and he’s determined to throw himself the best party ever. In examining a list of life goals he made as a child, he discovers that he’s done all of them except one: become Batman’s friend. Determined to complete the list, Jack invites Adam West to his birthday party — and he comes. (Who wouldn’t?) But West is not nearly as cool as Jack hopes anymore, and when West calls Jack his “good friend, Jake Delahee,” he sets in motion a final epiphany for the birthday boy. The whole episode is hilarious, but it’s West’s willingness to pretend he’s become deeply uncool in the years since Batman that really make it sing.
West showed up twice on The Simpsons: in “Mr. Plow” (season 4, episode 9) and in “Large Marge” (season 4, episode 14). In this clip from “Mr. Plow,” West plays a version of himself who finds all of the new Batmans (Batmen?) a little . . . disappointing. Homer tries to introduce Bart and Lisa to West — the kids are less than impressed — and then winds up backing away from him verrrry slowly. This version of Adam West, the one who isn’t all that impressed with the actors who have to wear prosthetic chests to play the superhero, is both hilarious and totally believable.
West played a recurring Family Guy character named Adam West, the Mayor of Quahog, Rhode Island, who debuted in season 2 and showed up many times since, including the season 13 premiere, “The Simpsons Guy” (a crossover episode with the Simpsons). Mayor Adam West is notable for his eccentricity, but also for the fact that he never mentions Batman — a kind of recurring joke by omission.
West voiced the young version of SpongeBob SquarePants’ semi-retired superhero Mermaid Man, who — in a bit of reference to West’s physique in his young days — is described as being a “young, handsome, muscular lad” who nonetheless seems to need a lot of saving. The joke, of course, is that Mermaid Man and his sidekick Barnacle Boy are obvious spoofs of the 1960s Batman show in which West starred; the pair even conduct their operations out of the “Mermalair” (a send-up of the Batcave) and ride in a vehicle called the “Invisible Boat-Mobile,” a knock-off Batmobile.
On “Shear Torture” (season 8, episode 6), Spence (Patton Oswalt) wants to bring Lou Ferrigno to Fantasy Fest — that is, until Adam West agrees to go with him instead. As you might guess, this does not end particularly well for Spence. West was himself a regular at Comic Cons around the country right through this past April, along with his Batman co-star Burt Ward, who portrayed his sidekick Robin.
West made clips for comedy website Funny or Die on several occasions, but one of the best is “Batman Garage Sale,” in which Batman — having been ripped off by Bernie Madoff — needs to sell some stuff from his Batcave in order to fix his cash-flow situation. Unfortunately for him, the shoppers are less than impressed with his stories and his goods. It’s not strictly TV, but the bit showcases his ongoing tongue-in-cheek persona as someone who’s blurred the lines between Adam West and Batman a little too much. (Also worth watching, if you can track them down: his series of segments on the HBO series Funny or Die Presents titled “Adam West Hits On You . . . Hard.”)
No list of West’s best self-referential TV appearances would be complete without his appearance of the 200th episode of The Big Bang Theory. Obviously the show’s nerds are obsessed with Batman, but in this clip they argue about who was the best Batman with Adam West. He says he’s at the top of the list. Christian Bale is way down near the end. And at the very bottom? “That pretty boy, Clooney.”
The clip defines West’s late cameo years for a few reasons: Because it’s funny, because it portrays him as a curmudgeon who’s still convinced no Batman can be as good as the original, and because it was a highly anticipated guest appearance, which shows just how enduring West’s legacy will always be for both fans of Batman and fans of the man who was Batman.
Adam West, the actor who defined Batman for a generation, has died at age 88.
West was an army veteran whose acting career took off when he appeared in the 1959 movie The Young Philadelphians with Paul Newman. But to his fans, he would always be Batman.
West’s Batman, which ran from 1966 through 1968, was a campy, color-saturated, pop-art inflected frolic, a light-hearted look at a superhero who’s usually celebrated for his darkness. West’s Batman wasn’t the Dark Knight of the Christopher Nolan/Christian Bale era: he was archer and funnier, a Batman who took himself completely seriously in a world that was utterly ridiculous. West was self-aware, but his Batman wasn’t, which made his Batman someone who could simultaneously awe children and make adults laugh.
Reportedly, West was not a fan of the darker turn the Batman franchise took after his own tenure under the cowl. Although his iconic turn as Batman trapped him in typecasting for years, eventually he began to embrace it.
“I decided that since so many people love Batman, I might as well love it too,” he told Variety. “Why not?” He took self-referential turns on shows like The Big Bang Theory and Family Guy, and he reprised his role as Batman in animated shows like SuperFriends: The Legendary Super Powers Show.
Variety reports that West’s death comes after a short battle with leukemia. In a statement, his family said, “Our dad always saw himself as The Bright Knight, and aspired to make a positive impact on his fans’ lives. He was and always will be our hero.”

This week, Lisa Randall — professor of theoretical physics at Harvard University and the author of Dark Matter and the Dinosaurs — answers our questions.
What’s the first piece of media you consume every day?
Often it's what Twitter directs me to. Which means British publications if I wake up too early.
Name a writer or publication you disagree with but still read.
I read the New Yorker film critic Anthony Lane. Don't always agree with his opinions on movies but he's always deadly funny.
Who is the person who has most influenced the way you think?
I'm guessing Galileo but that's because he was a key driver of the scientific method.
When was the last time you changed your mind about something?
Now. I decided to do this interview after thinking I wouldn't.
A few days ago when I realized just how bad a human being Neil Gorsuch is.
And today when I realized the merit of an idea about currency I had rejected.
And when I realized I had thought about gas fragmenting into stars incorrectly.
What’s your worst intellectual habit?
Checking email when I don't know an answer.
What inspires you to learn?
Everything.
What do you need to believe in order to get through the day?
That I will make progress. On something.
What’s a view that you hold but can’t defend?
That I will make progress. On something.
What book have you recommended the most?
Probably The Power Broker. Mostly because it explains why I had such an awful commute to Stuyvesant.
You can read last week’s edition of 9 questions with Tyler Cowen here.