
The MateBook was Huawei’s first shot at building a Windows 10 laptop, but it largely missed the mark on several aspects. But Huawei is back with a trio of new laptops that look to build out the company’s computer offerings while addressing the issues from its first attempt.
First up is the MateBook X, a 13-inch Windows 10 ultraportable that fixes a lot of the problems users had with the original MateBook. It features a traditional aluminum clamshell design instead of a 2-in-1 configuration, has Intel Core i5 and i7 processors instead of the less powerful Core m series, and can allegedly last up to 10 hours while watching 1080p video on a single charge.
The rest of the MateBook X’s hardware is similarly impressive — the 13-inch display offers a 3:2 aspect ratio at 2K resolution with a 4.4mm bezel (it is not a touchscreen, however), storage comes in either 256GB or 512GB SSD options, while the power button doubles as a Windows Hello-compatible fingerprint reader. The only qualm I have is RAM, which will come in 4GB or 8GB options, but given the portable-focused nature of the MateBook X, 8GB should be enough for the average user.
The MateBook X uses USB-C, and offers a pair of ports — one for charging, and one for data transfer. But to make the transition easier, Huawei is including a MateDock 2.0 USB-C dongle in the box in some markets, which offers a regular USB Type-A port, DVI, HDMI, and a second USB-C port for pass-through charging.
Huawei is also partnering with Dolby for what it calls the Atmos Sound System, which combines hardware and software elements from Dolby to offer a better sound experience. Having briefly demoed the feature, the MateBook X certainly sounded good (along with some fun 3D audio tricks), but given the lackluster nature of most laptop speakers, it’s not a high bar to clear.
I only had a few minutes to try out the MateBook X, but it made a great impression. It’s thin, light, fast, and if Huawei’s promises about battery life hold up in real-world testing, then the MateBook X could be a really good portable laptop option that could offer a legitimate challenge to Apple’s languishing MacBook Air line. Of course, that will also largely depend on price, which Huawei didn’t offer in advance of the announcement.
Next is the MateBook E, which is an updated version of the original MateBook. It offers the same basic design (including the leather folio keyboard), but upgrades the screen to a 2K panel from 1080p and improves the magnets connecting the folio to the table. Most importantly, Huawei claims that the MateBook E offers up to nine hours of battery life, which would be a significant improvement over the original, assuming it holds up.
Lastly, there’s the MateBook D, which Huawei didn’t have available to demo in advance. The MateBook D is a 15-inch computer targeting a wider, midrange group of customers. Specs are less interesting on the MateBook D — a 1080p display, configurations offering Intel’s i5 and i7 processor, 4GB, 8GB, or 16GB of RAM (depending on how much you’re willing to pay), and a choice between a 1TB hard drive by itself or supplemented with an additional SSD. Some models will also offer a dedicated Nvidia GeForce 940 MX graphics card, which should be good for casual gaming.
That said, despite its more mainstream ambitions, Huawei notes that the MateBook D still offers a thin, all-metal design and the same Dolby Atmos Sound System as the MateBook X, which the company hopes will set it apart from similarly specced laptops.
The three new MateBooks are expected to ship this summer.
Microsoft has been pushing its pen technology in Windows and Surface for years. The new Surface Pro, announced today, includes what Microsoft describes as the “fastest pen in the world.” Microsoft’s distinguished engineer and co-inventor of Surface, Stevie Bathiche, excitedly revealed the new Surface Pen to me in a recent interview. “We did a huge step with the pen, a massive step,” claims Bathiche. “I’m so pumped about this.”
A number of years in the making, the new hardware speeds up the Surface inking experience so there’s no more perceived lag. It also brings a new tilt experience, much like Wacom tablets, that allows designers and creators to angle the pen for shading just like a pencil. “What’s so cool about the hardware ink stuff is that our touch controller, that’s custom to us, talks to our new custom silicon, the display accelerator, and sends the pen data ahead of the operating system,” explains Bathiche. “We actually write directly onto the screen from the pen. Windows now has an API that will talk to our piece of silicon and that will tell our piece of silicon what color and what font to write.”
This custom setup means Microsoft can quickly erase, about a 100-millisecond trail of ink, before the rest of the system catches up, so it improves the latency of the pen. “This is how we’re able to close that gap,” says Bathiche. “We have the fastest pen in the world.” Pressure-sensitivity levels on the new Surface Pen have increased to 4096, alongside a 12-gram activation force. The new Surface Pen is now double the speed of the previous one, and Microsoft claims it’s “twice as responsive as the Apple Pencil.”
In my own limited time with the Surface Pen I saw a big improvement. I couldn’t detect any lag, and the tilt action felt very similar to a Wacom pen. I’m not a professional illustrator, so we’ll have to see what creatives think, but Microsoft has definitely improved the pen here. Although it's slightly more refined and lacks the clip at the top, the new Surface Pen is still not fully circular, as it’s designed to magnetically snap onto the side of Surface devices. Some creatives will still dislike the shape of the actual Surface Pen as a result.
The new Surface Pen will be backwards compatible with older Surface devices, but that doesn’t mean the new tilt functionality will be available on older devices. Microsoft’s new Surface Pro ships with this new support, and Microsoft is planning to add tilt to existing Surface Studio and Surface Book devices later this year.
Microsoft is launching a new Surface Pro today, and it’s dropping its numbering scheme as a result. While many were expecting a Surface Pro 5, Microsoft’s new tablet / laptop hybrid is simply the Surface Pro from now on. At first glance, the new Surface Pro looks a lot like the old Surface Pro 4, but it’s the inside that counts this time. “It’s a meaningful change," explains Microsoft's Surface chief, Panos Panay, in an interview with The Verge. "There are about 800 new custom parts in the new Pro.”
These new custom parts all add up to a lot of refinement on the new Surface Pro. Microsoft is upgrading the Surface Pro to a new Intel seventh-generation Kaby Lake processor, with a fan-less design on the Core m3 and Core i5 models. This processor switch, and some improvements in Windows 10, means Microsoft is now confident the new Surface Pro will deliver up to 13.5 hours of battery life. That’s a huge increase over the Surface Pro 4, and if Microsoft’s claims are accurate then this new Surface Pro will have 50 percent more battery life than the previous model. While the Core m3 and i5 models will ship with a fan-less design, the top model, an Intel Core i7, still includes a fan.
“This isn’t just a processor change," claims Panay. "We did take Kaby Lake, it’s the latest generation, of course. But it’s the integrated SSD on the motherboard. It’s the fundamental architecture changes that we do in Windows and Surface. It brings 13.5 hours of battery. It’s lighter than the previous generation product, and it’s more powerful with no fan.”
Like the Surface Laptop, Microsoft is promising sleep improvements with the new Surface Pro so you can confidently open and close the device and maintain battery life. That’s been a problem on the Surface Pro 4 and Surface Book previously, and it appears Microsoft has solved it for its latest Surface Laptop and Pro devices.
Related
In photos, it’s hard to show exactly what’s changed with the new Surface Pro, but there are some subtle differences. The perimeter vent has shrunk a little around the device so it’s no longer so noticeable, and the device has rounded edges that make it feel better when you’re holding it as a tablet. While the Core m3 and Core i7 models are the same weight, the Core i5 has dropped a tiny bit of weight. It’s not noticeable at all, and it largely looks and feels like the Surface Pro 4.
Other subtle changes include a new hinge design. Microsoft has adopted the same Surface Studio 165-degree angle for the Surface Pro, allowing it to lay nearly flat. The hinge no longer snaps (for safety) if you push it too far, and Microsoft is confident the hinge won’t break if you lean on it too much. Microsoft’s Surface hinges have been sturdy in the past, so that’s a claim that’s easy to believe.
Alongside this new hinge angle, Microsoft is also including Surface Dial support on the display of the Surface Pro. You can use the Dial just like the Surface Studio, placing it on top of the display to interact with apps like Sketchable. Microsoft is still planning to include this support on the Surface Book and Surface Pro 4 later this year with a firmware update, but it ships out of the box on the new Surface Pro.
One of the biggest changes to the Surface Pro is a new Surface Pen. It doesn’t come in the box anymore, so you’ll be able to purchase it separately for $99. While it will work on existing devices, a new tilt functionality is only available on the Surface Pro for now. Tilt will detect the angle of the pen to enable shading and better accuracy for inking. It’s something that creators who use Wacom tablets have been asking for, and Microsoft is finally delivering.
Microsoft has also altered the level of pressure sensitivity to 4096, alongside a reduction in the activation force. Inking now feels a lot less laggy and way more responsive on the Surface Pro. Even the Pen itself feels a little more refined, and Microsoft has removed the clip at the top of the device. We’ll have to see what creatives think, but it feels like a big improvement. "Right when you put the pen down, depending on how far you push, it’s like a ballpoint pen at this point," says Panay.
Just like the Surface Laptop, Microsoft is moving to Alcantara for the Surface Pro keyboard. Platinum, burgundy, and cobalt blue Surface Pro Type Covers will be available separately at $159, alongside a regular black Type Cover without the Alcantara fabric for $129. The new Surface Pen will also be available in these same colors to match. Sadly, just like the Surface Laptop, there's no USB-C ports on the Surface Pro. It's the same Surface connector, USB, and mini DisplayPort found on the Surface Pro 4.
For the first time on the Surface Pro, Microsoft will also offer a model with LTE connectivity. The LTE version will support micro SIM and eSIM, and will be priced slightly higher than models without LTE support. Microsoft isn’t revealing exact pricing or a release date, or even what processor will power the Surface Pro with LTE. It's possible that Microsoft could opt for an ARM-powered Surface. LTE versions should be available later this year.
Microsoft's Surface Pro devices are the most popular in the company's range, with some estimates suggesting more than 70 percent of all Surface devices in the US are Surface Pro. That makes this refresh an important one for Microsoft's Surface effort. “I believe it will be the fastest adopted Pro we’ve ever shipped," claims Panay. "There’s a reason for that, the brand is here and there’s people who have been waiting for it, and it turns out it’s just a kick-ass device."
Microsoft’s new Surface Pro is available for preorder today starting at $799. You’ll need to purchase a Type Cover (starting at $129) and Surface Pen ($99) separately, and devices will start shipping on June 15th in 26 countries.
Photography by Tom Warren / The Verge
Ikea's low-cost TRÅDFRI smart lights first announced in Europe last year, will soon get voice control for owners of Google Home, Apple HomeKit, and Amazon Alexa devices. Expect it to arrive this summer or autumn, says Ikea's press release first spotted by MacRumors.
Ikea says it sees "great potential" in smart home products, a category it first entered in 2015 with a series of furniture and accessories that had wireless charging for compatible smartphones baked right in. Ikea says it will expand its presence in the connected home with more launches in the coming years, “enabling people to build onto their smart home solution.”
Ikea’s TRÅDFRI low-cost devices could become a very disruptive force in smart homes. The company already helped to democratize design and lead the way in LED adoption. Now it’s positioned to do the same with smart lights, motion sensors, dimmers, and switches, as a start — Ikea easily undercuts the very popular Philips Hue lineup on price, while still matching them on specs.
As if we needed another reason to look forward to the summer, eh?
Buying apps related to an activity can often serve as a substitute for actually doing that activity. I've spent more time reading reviews of meditation apps, for example, than I've actually meditated. I buy grocery list apps as a substitute for ever actually going to the grocery store. I buy cookbook apps and then strenuously avoid cooking.
For most of my smartphone-owning life, fitness apps have been no exception. There's almost always a good reason not to go to the gym, and simply installing a fitness app on your phone can comfort me, however falsely, that I am at heart an athlete.
And then, six months ago, a surprising thing happened: I started using a fitness app four or five times a week, and it made a measurable difference in helping me work on my fitness goals. On one hand, the tool wouldn't have mattered at all had I not been motivated to use it. But on the other hand, having a great tool made my workouts much easier — and in a variety of ways, has pushed me to keep going.
There are hundreds of fitness apps to choose from, and I haven't made an exhaustive search to find the best. I no longer remember where I heard about Strong, a free download for Android and iOS, and I can't tell you much about the company that makes it. Many of its features you will find in scores of other apps — you can create custom routines, log your workouts, and track your weight over time. (Some features require a one-time in-app purchase; you can get everything for $7.)
Strong does two things that have been particularly useful to me. The first is remember: each time I start a new workout for my arms or legs, Strong notes how much I lifted the previous workout. It does so automatically, and it's amazing how such a simple thing has had such a powerful effect on me.
Bumping that number up over time has become a game to me, and it's pushed me to gently ramp up the difficulty level on my exercise more than anything I've tried short of a personal trainer. The first time I successfully did 40 push-ups, I could scarcely believe it. Previous apps I used required me to update my routines manually; automating that has made all the difference.
The second thing I find useful is Strong's graph of my most recent workouts. It's a simple bar chart that adds a block for each workout I complete. For me, a good week involves going to the gym four times. Getting four workouts on my chart each week has also given me a surprising amount of motivation — and getting less has made me feel surprisingly ashamed!
There are a host of other features that power lifters may find useful. A warm-up calculator, for example, will help you ease into your workout. A rest timer will count down your time between sets. There's a companion Apple Watch app on iOS, along with Apple Health integration, for more complete tracking of your measurements.
Since I started using Strong, I've logged 143 workouts and am down 20 pounds from my peak. I arrived at the magical moment of weight loss when friends started asking me what I had been doing differently, and whenever I told them I would always bring up Strong.
To be sure, I have a lot more work to do. (Not least because I managed to strain an abdominal muscle performing in an improv show a week ago, which would be hilarious if it weren't going to keep me out of the gym for an unspecified number of weeks.) My diet is still an essentially grotesque American one, and my weightlifting routine is based more around what I enjoy doing than it is any scientific approach to gaining muscle mass.
But for me, getting to the gym on a regular basis has been one of the great insurmountable challenges of adulthood. Anything that makes that more enjoyable is, for me, worth investing in. I suspect I could have gotten similar results using a dozen different apps. But I can't imagine going to the gym now without an app.
Going to the gym is still a chore. But with apps like Strong, working out feels more like a game that you're playing with yourself: Can you make the numbers all move in the right direction? It's not the most fun I've ever had, but it's enough to get me to the gym. That's enough to make it one of the most powerful apps on my phone, and easily one of my favorites.
Two astronauts will conduct a contingency spacewalk this morning to carry out maintenance work on the International Space Station (ISS). Astronauts Peggy Whitson and Jack Fischer will begin the spacewalk at 8AM ET on Tuesday, according to NASA. NASA will begin streaming the event at 6:30AM ET on its website.
Whitson and Fischer are tasked with replacing a data relay box that failed on Saturday. The box is one of two units on the ISS that control solar arrays, radiators, cooling loops, and other hardware. While Whitson replaces the relay box, known as a a multiplexer-demultiplexer (MDM), Fischer will install two wireless communications antennas on the Destiny Lab. The spacewalk is expected to last for two and a half hours.
Today’s spacewalk will be the tenth of Whitson’s career, and the second for Fischer. Whitson, the commander of the current ISS expedition, has already spent more days in space than any other American. According to NASA, completing today’s spacewalk will likely put Whitson in third place all-time for cumulative spacewalking time. Whitson and Fischer performed the 200th spacewalk outside the ISS earlier this month.

Apple and Nokia have settled an ongoing patent dispute and entered a new licensing agreement, the two companies announced on Tuesday.
Under a business collaboration agreement, Nokia will provide network infrastructure services to Apple, while Apple will resume selling Nokia health products, which were previously sold under the Withings brand. Apple pulled Withings products from its online and retail stores in December 2016, days after Nokia sued the company for patent infringement.
Details of the licensing agreement remain confidential, but Nokia said it will receive an up-front cash payment from Apple, as well as additional revenues. The companies said in a joint press release that they are also “exploring future collaboration in digital health initiatives.”
The agreement marks the end of a patent dispute that began last year, when Nokia sued Apple in Germany and the US, alleging infringement of 32 patents. The two companies sued one another in 2009, and struck a licensing agreement in 2011.


Google’s AI AlphaGo has done it again: it’s defeated Ke Jie, the world’s number one Go player, in the first game of a three-part match. AlphaGo shot to prominence a little over a year ago after beating Korean legend Lee Se-dol 4-1 in one of the most potent demonstrations of the power of artificial intelligence to date. And its defeat of Ke shows that it was only getting started.
“I think everyone recognizes that Ke Jie is the strongest human player,” 9th-dan professional and commentator Michael Redmond said before the match. And despite defeat, Ke’s strategy suggested that the 19-year-old Chinese prodigy has actually learned from AlphaGo’s often unorthodox approach. “This is Master’s move,” said Redmond of one of Ke’s earliest plays, referring to the pseudonym that AlphaGo used for a recent series of online matches in which it racked up a 60-game winning streak.
Interesting that Ke Jie has decided to play an very early 3-3 point as he knows #AlphaGo likes to play there.
AlphaGo won by just half a point, the closest margin possible, but that’s characteristic of its playing style. The AI doesn’t appear to care about the margin of victory, instead choosing moves that it has determined are the most likely to lead to a win. The result was technically close, but AlphaGo looked like winning from a relatively early stage in the game.
“I think it was a really wonderful game,” DeepMind CEO and co-founder Demis Hassabis said at the post-game press conference. “Huge respect to Ke Jie for playing such a great game and pushing AlphaGo to its limits.”
Ke and AlphaGo are facing off as part of the Future of Go Summit being held by Google in Wuzhen, China, this week. The second game will be on Thursday (China time; Wednesday evening in the US) while the finale will be on Saturday. Friday will see AlphaGo further put to the test in two stipulation matches; one where it acts as a teammate to two Chinese pros playing each other, and another where it takes on five Chinese pros all at once.
Zack Snyder, who has acted as DC Comics’ directorial visionary on a number of its most ambitious film projects, is stepping down from Justice League due to a family tragedy. The news, announced in an interview published today by The Hollywood Reporter, means Snyder will be handing the reins over to Avengers director and writer Joss Whedon, who will ferry the project through its remaining post-production stage before its November 17th release later this year.
Snyder, whose daughter committed suicide in March at the age of 20, admits that he originally misjudged how the loss would affect his work. “In my mind, I thought it was a cathartic thing to go back to work, to just bury myself and see if that was way through it,” Snyder told The Hollywood Reporter. “The demands of this job are pretty intense. It is all consuming. And in the last two months I’ve come to the realization… I’ve decided to take a step back from the movie to be with my family, be with my kids, who really need me. They are all having a hard time. I’m having a hard time.”
Snyder has been at the helm of a number of comic book adaptations and big-budget action blockbusters, from 300 and Watchmen to Man of Steel and Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice. His particular style, characterized by dark tones and highly stylized visuals, has been a marked contrast to the more family-friendly, comedic touch of Disney and Marvel. Snyder was originally slated to help shoot and edit a few additional scenes to add to Justice League following the death of his daughter, but now Whedon will be handling those scenes in accordance with Snyder’s style.
“The directing is minimal and it has to adhere to the style and tone and the template that Zack set,” said Warner Bros. president Tony Emmerich. “We’re not introducing any new characters. It’s the same characters in some new scenes. He’s handing a baton to Joss but the course has really been set by Zack. I still believe that despite this tragedy, we’ll still end up with a great movie.”
PayPal is not pleased with music streaming service Pandora, which last October debuted a new simplified logo with a design aesthetic similar to the digital payments company. In a lawsuit filed last week, PayPal lawyers went out of their way to paint Pandora as a struggling has-been tech company with a terrible business model and waning popularity, according to Gizmodo. The suit, filed in Manhattan federal court, says Pandora “has no path to profitability” and “deserted its longstanding logo and latched itself on to the increasingly popular PayPal Logo as part of its efforts to catch up to its competition.”
This particular tech industry beef is so interesting because of the alarmingly deluded self-image PayPal has cooked up for itself. Sure, PayPal is likely much more useful to the general populace as a payments app than Pandora is as a streaming service. That’s especially true given Pandora’s inability to keep pace with Apple Music, Spotify, and the scores of other competitors that have long since abandoned internet radio as the de facto streaming model. Pandora has since switched its focus to a premium streaming model, with a rather smart focus on the underserved country music community, but PayPal’s criticisms still stand, even if they are unusually harsh for a corporate lawsuit.
Still, PayPal seems rather too high and mighty here, thinking of itself as an “increasingly popular” brand, rather than that online payments processor that was inexplicably tied to eBay for 13 years until it managed to divorce itself in 2015. (PayPal’s subsidiaries would appear to have more brand cachet these days, as the company also owns the hip social peer-to-peer payments app Venmo.)
The two logos are indeed similar. Anecdotal internet testimonials on Twitter indicate people are in fact mistaking the Pandora app for the PayPal one, and PayPal’s legal team made sure to include many examples in its filing. However, PayPal’s own explanation for how to created its rather standard one seem a bit inflated:
The PayPal Logo was meticulously developed to exemplify simplicity, convenience, and security. Every detail of the design has a specific purpose. The counters in the Ps were closed to achieve a more compact form that is easier to read. The color was chosen to infuse energy into the logo and to portray confidence and vitality, while harmonizing with PayPal’s longstanding color scheme. The simple yet sharp geometric pattern was chosen to symbolize technology. The subtle shading between the tiles creates depth and dimension to show security. The italic angle conveys forward motion, innovation, and progress.
It’s unclear how this is all going to play out in court, but PayPal is demanding an injunction against Pandora to stop it from using the logo on the grounds that its tricking customers into mistaking the one service for the other, especially on mobile. For poor Pandora, which just reportedly mulled over a somewhat paltry acquisition offer from Sirius XM, PayPal’s especially deep cuts over a logo redesign have to be salt in the wound for a company struggling to stay relevant.
Fidget spinners are the most important thing happening in our culture right now, so it's only natural that a free-to-play iOS game called Finger Spinner is at the top of the charts.
To save you the trouble of downloading it and finding out: yes, it's bad. It's not just that it’s low quality; it's bad in a moral sense, too.
A virtual fidget spinner is the top free app in the app store right now.  pic.twitter.com/gZmQpc6ctm
Here are the basics: there's a fidget spinner on the screen, and you swipe to spin it. But! You only get a few swipes, and then you watch the spinner (quickly) lose momentum. You get coins for however many spins you managed, and then you use those coins to upgrade your fidget spinner so it spins longer, or at a higher maximum speed. Over time you unlock new fidget spinners with funky designs and hardly tolerable spinning sounds.
It's basically a clicker game, but with only three meaningful upgrades (offline coin earning is the third), and so, of course, that means there are ads you can watch to earn more coins. You know what you can't do while you watch an ad? Spin the fidget spinner!
There's an in-app purchase to turn off ads, but that only turns off the banner at the bottom (which leaves behind a blank space where the ad was) and the occasional ads that interrupt you after you complete a spin. Also, every single spin ends with a reward screen, where you can collect your coins and share your progress on Facebook or Twitter as if you've done something to be proud of.
The whole app is basically designed to minimize your time fidget spinning while maximizing ad impressions. I don't know why I expected anything different. But it's wrong, and I'm sad now.
The latest update for the Amazon Video app on Xbox One S enables 4K playback, giving Microsoft’s console another source of UHD content. Many of Amazon’s original shows — Sneaky Pete, Bosch, and The Grand Tour among them — are available to stream in 4K. Netflix, Vudu, and Hulu also offer at least some 4K programming on Xbox One S.
Oddly, Sony’s PlayStation 4 Pro console doesn’t yet support Amazon Video in 4K; we’ve reached out to Amazon for details on when it might receive the same functionality. There are other ways of viewing Amazon’s 4K content, including apps for Roku, Nvidia’s Shield, and some smart TVs. But Microsoft touts Xbox One S as “the only console that lets you stream 4K video content and watch Ultra HD Blu-ray movies with HDR.”
If only Sony had built a 4K Blu-ray drive into the PS4 Pro, there’d be fewer opportunities for Microsoft to throw out those burns.
To update to the 4K-enabled version of Amazon Video on your Xbox One S, just open the app and you should be prompted to update — if it hasn’t already installed automatically.
Since 2015, a Chinese gaming website has been hacking Xbox accounts and selling the proceeds on the open market, according to a complaint filed by Microsoft in federal court on Friday.
On its website, iGSKY presents itself as a gaming service company, offering players a way to pay for in-game credits and rare items — but according to Microsoft, many of those credits were coming from someone else’s wallet. The complaint alleges that the company made nearly $2 million in purchases through hacked accounts and their associated credit cards, using purchases as a way to launder the resulting cash. On the site, cheap in-game points are also available for the FIFA games, Forza Horizon 3, Grand Theft Auto V, and Pokémon Go, among others.
“Microsoft is committed to providing customers with safe and secure online experiences,” a company spokesperson told The Verge. “We filed these lawsuits to protect our Xbox customers from the illegal trafficking of stolen property.”
Microsoft’s in-house fraud investigators began looking at the site in December, making a number of purchases on iGSKY to build the case. In one case described by senior investigator Jeremy Beckley, Microsoft’s fraud team purchased 11,000 FIFA points on iGSKY.com, paying $60. Immediately afterward, Xbox Live received an email and password change for an eight-year-old account, which then proceeded to purchase 11,000 FIFA points for $127.54. It’s unclear how the group gained access to the account, although there was no indication of a broader breach of Xbox services.
iGSKY delivered the credentials to Microsoft’s investigations team in an email, along with instructions to spend the points as soon as possible. Shortly after that, the original owner of the account contacted Xbox customer support, complaining that he had been locked out of his account and unauthorized purchases had been made.
Based on that evidence, Microsoft has brought charges of fraud, CFAA violations, and racketeering conspiracy under RICO, naming alleged parent company Gameest and alleged proprietor Weiwei Chu. Still, Microsoft acknowledges it knows little about how iGSKY is operated, and hopes to turn up more detail in discovery.
Since iGSKY is based in China, it will be difficult to directly shut down the site — but the court can still make lift difficult. Judge Koh has already issued a temporary restraining order freezing the company’s domestic assets, including any PayPal accounts linked to the site. Further arguments are scheduled for next week.
Microsoft Virtual Currency Suit by Russell Brandom on Scribd
In what might be one of the biggest stories to come out of the Cannes Film Festival, Entertainment Weekly reports that Netflix has landed a project that will star Rihanna and Lupita Nyong’o in a story based on a viral meme. The untitled film will be directed by Ava DuVernay (Selma, the upcoming A Wrinkle in Time). Insecure creator Issa Rae is in talks to write the script.
The concept originations from a photo of the two celebrities back in 2014 at the Miu Miu show during Paris Fashion Week. Soon after, the photo inspired comments on Tumblr that proposed a heist movie in which Rihanna and Nyong’o scam the rich out of their money:
Rihanna looks like she scams rich white men and lupita is the computer smart best friend that helps plan the scans https://t.co/PhWs1xd3nj
Twitter users pulled the pair, along with DuVernay and Rae, into the discussion, and all four declared they were interested:
I'm down if you are @rihanna https://t.co/vwHBWeCbFZ
I'm in Pit'z https://t.co/Kz0o3lBEmL
@MikelleStreet @rihanna Lights set. Camera's up. Ready to call action for these #queens.   pic.twitter.com/NVgqpFeTnu
@dvrrxll @rihanna pic.twitter.com/XG2WMribGJ
As fun and silly as the concept is, it’s still stunning that Netflix jumped on board to develop the project. According to EW’s sources, the streaming company fought for the film, putting in an aggressive bid to beat out competitors.
The decision is a triumph for black women in film both behind and in front of the camera. All four are big names in entertainment, and their name recognition coupled with the ongoing call to see more women of color in film will draw both critical attention and audiences to see how well the project plays out.
The project is also huge Cannes news for Netflix, which has endured scrutiny from the festival. During the premiere of director Bong Joon-ho’s Okja, audiences booed Netflix when the company logo appeared. The chilly reception came after weeks of sniping between the streaming company and the festival over whether or not films made primarily for online platforms delegitimize filmmaking. However, both Okja and Noah Baumbach’s The Meyerowitz Stories, starring Adam Sandler, were ultimately well received.
Taken together, there’s now an argument for Netflix finding a way to steal the show.
Update 4:50pm ET: The piece has been updated to clarify that the meme originated on Tumblr.

Rockstar Games just announced that Red Dead Redemption 2 — the long-awaited sequel to 2010’s Red Dead Redemption — has been delayed from the original fall 2017 release date to spring 2018.
Rockstar apologized for delay in a statement on its website explaining that “some extra time is necessary to ensure that we can deliver the best experience possible for our fans.” To make up for the delay, the company also released a new batch of screenshots from Red Dead Redemption 2, which should at least help tide fans over.
Along with the announcement of the delay, Rockstar promised that fans would get more information about Red Dead Redemption 2 this summer — and with E3 right around the corner, it’s likely that information will be coming sooner than later.
Welcome to Twin Peaks Top 3, where I look at last night’s episode(s) of Showtime’s Twin Peaks revival and draw bad fan art of the top three most baffling moments that made an impression on me. If you’re looking for actual analysis and fan theories, we’ve got a big Question Club conversation for you to read instead, because you won’t find any of that here. Twin Peaks has always been a polarizing show, making even fans like myself question their loyalty at times. At the end of each Top 3, I’ll ask myself a question: “Do I want to keep watching?” Let’s find out.
This Top 3 will cover the show’s two-episode premiere, so spoilers ahead!
It’s been 25 years since Agent Dale Cooper’s been trapped in the Black Lodge, and we find that his doppelgänger, Bob, is now rampaging through South Dakota and doing his best impression of a post-apocalyptic Tommy Wiseau. We know this is Bob because his hair is still the same level of greasy and he’s getting nasty with some ladies in motels, which is exactly his aesthetic. What’s become of Cooper is pretty unsettling. It almost makes me wish he never came to Twin Peaks in the first place if it means he could have avoided the fate of having an evil entity with terrible taste take over his body. All I’m saying is, this was Bob’s big moment in the mortal world, and I wanted so much more for him!
Over in New York, we find a mysterious billionaire has set up a glass box in a fancy Manhattan apartment. It’s under constant surveillance by a bored, horny young man named Sam. Some interloper named Tracy is determined to get that D, and she keeps showing up with two lattes in hand, hoping Sam will invite her into the apartment so they can stare into nothingness together. He finally does, and they waste no time getting down, which is, of course, the exact moment a blurry ghost finally shows up in the glass box, and pecks their faces off. Based on what I’ve seen here and It Follows, we are in the age of movies and TV heavily preaching abstinence.
The first reappearance of James Hurley is back at the Bang Bang bar in Twin Peaks, where Shelly Johnson is having a girls’ night out with her fellow moms. Not even Twin Peaks is safe from gentrification, because the Chromatics are playing at the bar, and all the plaid-clad hipsters are loving it. Shelley spots James, still the same sweet, doe-eyed boy desperate for love, and declares he’s “always been cool.” I heavily disagree, but whatever makes you happy, Shelly! Now I’m praying and hoping they’ll hook up this season and make poor choices together.
Yes. We still haven’t seen some of the legacy characters, like Audrey. Plus this season is supposed to have about 200 new and returning characters, so I’m still interested in seeing how kind (or cruel) time has been to them. The other murder mystery, featuring poor Ruth Davenport’s mix-and-match body, is also pretty compelling (though the CGI was jarringly bad)! And we still don’t know what that talking brain-tree in the Black Lodge was. I must keep watching, or I’ll live the rest of my life assuming it was a mango tree gone rotten.
On May 21st, David Lynch’s Twin Peaks returned to television, nearly 27 years after the end of its second season. About the only predictable thing about the revived show was that it was wildly unpredictable. Right at the top, audiences learned that FBI Special Agent Dale Cooper is still trapped in the mysterious Black Lodge, and that his doppelgänger — a snakeskin-wearing thug inhabited by the evil spirit Bob — is loose in the world, creating havoc and mischief. But everything from that moment onward was some sort of surprise, with aged-but-familiar faces appearing alongside new characters and settings.
The first four episodes — two were broadcast, while Showtime made episodes three and four available online — weren’t a nostalgic throwback to the quirky soap opera murder mystery that originally captivated audiences back in 1990. They were the opening arc for something different: a sprawling, sometimes obstinately paced story that evokes some familiar themes and ideas while nevertheless being its own unique piece of entertainment. And as expected, it left us with a ton of questions. The morning after our latest visit to David Lynch’s mind, we sat down to hash it all out.
Warning: Twin Peaks revival spoilers ahead.
Bryan: This is a pretty broad question, but I think it’s worth asking. When we discussed our expectations last week, one of the points we hit upon was the vibe and feel of the original series. Its combination of small-town soap opera, whodunnit, and batshit Black Lodge weirdness was a potent cocktail, tempering David Lynch’s more extreme sensibilities and creating something captivating in the process.
Four episodes into the show’s return, this doesn’t feel like the show we’ve known before, and it doesn’t feel like the prequel film Fire Walk With Me, either. From the early scenes of a mysterious, empty glass box being monitored in a New York loft to the painful sequence where Dr. Jacoby spray-paints shovels one… by one… by one, these episodes don’t have the rhythm and pop that made the original series work. They’re full of moments that meander, lost in the weeds, as if Lynch is daring the audience to invest while providing only minimal glimpses of interaction with the characters legacy viewers are likely tuning in to see.
The Black Lodge still looks like the Black Lodge, and Special Agent Dale Cooper still cuts a sharp profile in a black suit, but everything else seems to drift atop the expectation that of course we’ll keep watching. The original series was never this gonzo, and it always had a strong narrative thrust to keep things moving forward. That turned the bizarre detours into pleasant moments of surprise. Without a clearly defined murder mystery, though, the new season becomes about the oddities and little else — the antithesis of the original Twin Peaks.
Lizzie: During the first episode, I assumed the revival’s fidgety, meandering style was just a way to quickly familiarize audiences with new subplots and characters. But by the end of the second episode, the tangle of plot threads haven’t even really begun to sort themselves out. The original Twin Peaks also started out slowly, but we still had Dale Cooper — the real, human good guy Dale Cooper — as a lighthouse beacon. By the end of the first two episodes, the revival still hasn’t given us a living protagonist who isn’t trapped in some surreal underworld. It might be easier to handle the series’s exhaustingly glacial pace if we had someone to root for.
There’s another reason this doesn’t quite feel like Twin Peaks to me yet, and that’s because a lot of the original’s campy goofiness is gone. There’s an added weight to the new series, and not only because we still don’t know what’s happening to Cooper. Already, there’s more explicit gore, more gunshots, and more desperation to these characters. Small moments of Lynchian levity — like a cop’s broken flashlight, or a nosy neighbor with a tiny dog — don’t balance out eerie scenes like the one of Sarah Palmer sitting in the dark, silently staring as two leopards tear out a wildebeest’s guts on TV.
Tasha: I agree that this doesn’t feel like early Twin Peaks, with a chipper Cooper leading local law enforcement through a bottle-smashing experiment to determine which clues in an investigation are important or chattering away to Diane on his tape recorder or offering explosively enthusiastic praise for pie, coffee, syrup, trees, and mountain air. And it doesn’t feel like late Twin Peaks, with a frantic weasel-cam running around people’s feet, and the ridiculous Adam Sandler comedy of little orphan Nicky possibly being the devil. The early quirk is gone, and so is the late sloppiness, which Lynch himself has said he wasn’t around for, and didn’t even watch.
But it feels to me exactly like mid-series Twin Peaks, where scenes like Cooper talking to “Señor Droolcup” after being shot dragged on endlessly, holding a single chilly, alarming mood. And more significantly, where the series doesn’t feel like Twin Peaks, it still feels like David Lynch. The sound design, with the back-masked dragging noises and the echoing, disturbing soundscapes, is so recognizably his style. So is the chilly cinematography in the outdoors scenes. So is the wacky, startling surrealism of things like The Arm, and the entire opening of episode three. This is more the Lynch of his short experimental films than of the comparatively conventional Twin Peaks pilot, but that Lynch certainly did show up in the original series, especially whenever the story moved into the Black Lodge.
Bryan: Rewatching the original series recently, I was struck by just how low-fi the whole thing feels. Of course, ABC never gave Twin Peaks a massive budget, but the original series had a pleasant, handcrafted feel that matched its quirkiness. That’s changed here; Showtime has gone all-in, both with the resources the network has given the project (Lynch almost quit until he got the budget he was looking for), and the creative control it’s handed him. When the show jumps to New York, it’s full of gleaming helicopter shots of high-rises. The strange glass cube, which appears to have some connection to The Black Lodge — it’s a literal mystery box — is filmed like it’s in a high-end tech thriller rather than the story of folks in the cozy confines of Oregon.
Some of that is no doubt Lynch adapting his filmmaking style to better represent specific locations, but it turns the many different story threads — catching up with old friends like Hawk, Andy, and Lucy; following Snakeskin Cooper through seedy motels; the mystery box shenanigans — feel like discordant, random threads. It’s exacerbated by the modern-day setting. Lizzie, you mentioned the lack of goofiness earlier, and it’s true: the deadpan humor that worked so well in a small town in the ‘90s feels awkward when deployed by the security guard monitoring the mystery box, and it’s even more discomfiting when Michael Cera shows up to monologue as Andy and Lucy’s Marlon Brando-obsessed son. The original Twin Peaks was a time capsule; was that because its style could only really work at that one particular time in TV history?
Tasha: There were people online who absolutely loved Cera’s take on Marlon Brando in The Wild One (he’s wearing Brando’s costume! He’s straddling Brando’s bike! He keeps trying and failing to do Brando’s accent, especially whenever he says “godfadda”!), but I found that segment to be just incomprehensibly awful. It’s the equivalent of James in the original series moping around doing his James Dean impression, except the delivery is even more awkward and unconvincing. The writing is recognizably Lynchian — it reminded me of the Cowboy’s introductory monologue in Mulholland Drive — but Cera is just the wrong person to pull it off, in part because he’s not a nuanced actor, and in part because he’s just too familiar a face.
That aside, though, I’m enjoying some of the modern touches, including the helicopter shots of New York, the ultra-crisp digital cinematography, and the entire plotline apparently revolving around trying to scientifically capture Black Lodge-related supernatural events. Oh, and Jerry Horne shifting his gourmet obsessions over to pot-gourmet business ventures. Jerry becoming a professional stoner and edibles tycoon is easily the most plausible subplot the series has offered in the first four episodes.
Lizzie: While the revival is apparently set in modern day, the passage of time is messy, probably intentionally so. The apartment complex in South Dakota, with its cast of grouchy, flighty residents, feels like it’s stuck in another decade. Maybe it is? I actually preferred the dated-feeling scenes to the ones in New York, which stylistically felt completely unconnected to the world of Twin Peaks that we already know.
Some of the show’s special effects were also a little distracting. In the Black Lodge, The Man From Another Place, aka The Arm, has been replaced by a barren white tree that looks like a holiday sale item from Target. There’s a sack of brain stuck to the top of it, which I guess is a way to indicate that it’s somehow sentient.
Tasha: I mean, it’s basically a brain and a nervous system, crackling with visible electrical impulses. It seems pretty clear that The Arm has evolved into a higher form of being. Again, this doesn’t feel any weirder or more modern than the wailing snake-baby in Eraserhead. If anything, it looks like a product of stop-motion and puppetry, like a technological throwback to earlier Lynch days. Ditto the episode 3 opening, with its strobe lights, missing frames, and photographic tricks. That sequence easily could have been made to look exactly the same way 30 or 40 years ago. A great deal of the new Twin Peaks doesn’t feel like it’s using modern technology; there’s no attempt to make things like The Arm look slick and digital and well-integrated with its background, or to make Cooper traveling via electrical outlet look natural. The “modern filmmaking” here seems like it’s only around for contrast. It’s not the basic default.
Tasha: So far, this is really bothering me. If the first four episodes had entirely stuck with the New York tech-experiment, the Black Lodge, and wherever Dale Cooper went, I’d be antsy to check back in with the Twin Peaks characters we know and love, but I’d also assume Lynch was waiting until the story organically returned there. Instead, we keep getting these weird, disconnected glimpses of familiar settings: Andy and Lucy and Hawk fussing over a familiar conference table covered in files, Shelley and James locking eyes in a bar, the Log Lady literally phoning in her contributions. (I wasn’t aware that Catherine Coulson was able to film scenes before her death, and while I always thought the Log Lady was a pretty ridiculous, pointless character, it was still so heartwarming to see her back, and to see the concern and affection she and Hawk shared on-screen.)
The problem is that almost none of these scenes, except the ones with Hawk trying to figure out what’s missing from the Cooper files, have any connection to anything else, any relevance to a larger story or a larger world. (And if it turns out that “what’s missing from Cooper’s case” is Cooper, and that Hawk is going to find him through something “related to his heritage” because Coop was hanging out in a casino and Native Americans = casinos, I’m going to set my TV on fire.)
Currently, I’m getting the same feeling I got from Arrested Development’s fourth season. Netflix couldn’t pull the cast together because they’re all busy stars, so they shot everyone separately and tried to edit their scenes into separate stories. It just never felt like the characters were operating in the same world. It isn’t enough to just have these characters back if they don’t matter. I don’t want fan service, I want a story.
Lizzie: I agree. So far, this does feel mostly like fan service. I appreciate that, though, if only because it would be really difficult for me to get through the series without it. Right now, any time a legacy character appears, it’s just enough of a tease to keep me thinking that this is all going to pay off in the end. At the same time, it is frustrating to feel that as a viewer, I’m just being placated with glimpses of Andy and Lucy, or thoughtful, gentle conversations between Hawk and the Log Lady, while the real story is happening almost entirely outside of those moments.
Bryan: I’ve been turning this over in my mind since the first episode — how different the new show is, how it seems to have its own thematic concerns and ideas, and how it aesthetically differs at times — and I can’t help but wonder if this is just some other story Lynch has been wanting to tell, and he’s just using Twin Peaks as the vehicle to bring it into the world. The initial scene with Dr. Jacoby sums it up cleanly: he’s in frame, sure, but he’s a speck, and Lynch seems more concerned with taking in the beauty of the surrounding forest rather than what the doctor is up to. (I can barely make out his dialogue in the sequence.)
And then there’s the handling of Agent Cooper. He finds some trick backdoor through the folds of space-time to escape the Black Lodge, but then shows up as an odd mute without even basic language skills. Kyle MacLachlan’s performance as Agent Cooper is a big part of why so many people loved Twin Peaks in the first place. He’s a huge part of what brought order to the show’s chaos. I assume that keeping him out of play and unable to communicate will eventually lead to some incredibly cathartic ah-ha! moment of awakening. (Still, we can’t ever be sure with this show.) But sidelining him for even this long seems to telegraph that Lynch is not all that interested in how audiences feel about these older characters, much less what happens to them.
Tasha: It seems like Lynch doesn’t think it will be, which may explain why we launch with the Ruth Davenport murder mystery, a grotesque CGI: Messy Victims Unit plotline involving a severed head and a hairy, pudgy mystery corpse. From the moment that plotline kicks off, it feels like a modern spin on the Laura Palmer murder mystery — a new death to define the new series. Given that Lynch famously never wanted to solve Laura Palmer’s murder, and only allowed Twin Peaks to unravel that thread because ABC relentlessly pushed him to address it directly, I can’t help but wonder whether Ruth’s death is going to be the eternally unsolved story seed he wanted Laura’s death to be. It feels like we already know who killed her, but will we ever know why? Or where her body is, or why she was left like that? Currently, though, I don’t care about any of those things. They all feel like distractions from the story I do care about — about whether Cooper will ever become a functional human being again, and whether he’s going to take an active part in removing his doppelgänger from the world.
Lizzie: I’m hoping that the Cooper mystery ends sooner rather than later, because I want the old Cooper back. As Tasha pointed out, we’ve already got several murders to contend with, and no one to solve them. As a viewer, I’m not very invested in those murders, but given Leland’s instructions to Coop to “Find Laura,” I don’t think Coop can be out of the game for long.
Bryan: I find it mildly hilarious that while I so cavalier about mythology during our chat last week, now I’m obsessed with the mythology of the new episodes. Matthew Lillard popping up as an adulterous high school principal suspected of Davenport’s murder seemed like a lovely parallel to Leland Palmer, but the way that entire story thread (perhaps) ended — Snakeskin Cooper killing the principal’s wife and leaving town — has me wondering if they’re going in an entirely different direction.
What is Bob’s plan here, and what is the reasoning behind the ritualistic nature of the Davenport crime scene? How did Bob know he was going to be sucked back into the Black Lodge at a given date and time? How did he create an alterna-Cooper who would take his place instead? (I’m not going to wonder why that alterna-Cooper is a real estate agent named Dougie, because some things are just too wonderfully random to be questioned.) Four episodes in, the series’s central conflict seems to be angling toward Agent Cooper vs. Snakeskin Cooper in some sort of Black Lodge battle royale — but while I’m definitely invested in that storyline, I question whether it’s enough for a full set of 18 episodes.
The beauty of the “who killed Laura Palmer?” mystery is that it was a single question that impacted an entire town. Everyone in the original series knew and was affected by Laura in some way. Her death was a window into an entire community, and this show has nothing truly analogous to that yet. The fate of Agent Cooper may drive audience interest, but it’s not going to link the various story threads in the same way Laura’s death did. (At least, not in a way we can discern yet.) There could be some larger, Dark Tower-esque mythology that interconnects everything — Cooper’s appearance in the New York mystery box seems to point in that direction — but even then, that would be a payoff, not a reason to watch in the first place.
Bryan: Many were interested in the return of Twin Peaks due to good old-fashioned nostalgia, but thus far we have a show that’s more like a distant cousin of the original than a direct successor. That’s going to be frustrating for viewers hoping for more of the same, but has an upside in being even more appealing to those who have no preconceived notions.
Unfortunately, that’s a pretty narrow way of looking at this question. Thus far the new season of Twin Peaks has also been confusing, discordant, and lacking in an overall propulsive narrative drive (see “Cooper, Agent Dale” above). Other than just wanting to see the weirdest thing to be on television in quite some time, I can’t see newcomers turning on any of these episodes and being particularly enraptured. Unless they want to watch Kyle MacLachlan play slot machines. If that’s the case, they’re going to be stoked.
Lizzie: It’s gonna be a no from me. I can’t imagine having any investment in this show, or a willingness to trust that it’s going to pay off, if you don’t care about the first two seasons.
Tasha: It’s impossible for me to guess how this all looks to people who never watched the original show. If the story were linear and well-ordered, coming in on the third season would be like entering a really convoluted play for the third act, which is always a bad idea. But in this case, it’s more like joining an acid trip already in progress. I’d love to read some reactions from people coming to New Peaks cold, but I can only assume that for them, this story feels even more disjointed than it does for us. If nothing else, as Lizzie said above, the show currently lacks a protagonist viewers can comprehend or care about. If you aren’t already emotionally invested in Cooper’s recovery, watching him stumble around, parroting whatever he heard last, can’t be fun. But is the unpredictability compelling to new viewers? I imagine that depends on how patient they are, and whether they’re Lynch fans in general.
Tasha: There is absolutely no question about this. I’m in it for the long haul. If we got four episodes in a row that were just test patterns and the sound of fingernails on chalk boards, I’d fast-forward through them — and then come back next week to see whether we’d moved on. I have to find out what Lynch has in mind for this world.
Lizzie: Agreed. I’m only two episodes in, and if it took 25 years to get this made, I don’t think I can give up so easily.
Bryan: Same. I may not know where this thing is going at all, but I have zero doubt that it is going somewhere. And I intend to be there when it arrives.
But please, let’s not talk about episodes full of test patterns. That could actually happen.
Spider-Man: Homecoming star Tom Holland has signed on to star in the upcoming Uncharted film, playing the role of young Nathan Drake. Deadline reports that the role is based on a sequence in Uncharted 3: Drake’s Deception, turning the film into a prequel to the game series as opposed to the straightforward adaptation that was originally planned.
The Uncharted film will focus on Drake’s youth and his pivotal meeting with treasure-hunting businessman Victor “Sully” Sullivan, who serves as Drake’s mentor and father figure in the games. The change comes from Sony Pictures chairman Tom Rothman, who came away so impressed after seeing Holland in Homecoming that he saw fit to change the scope of the film.
This is only the latest change to come to the long-promised Uncharted film. The movie has been in development hell since late 2008. Since then, multiple directors and actors have been attached to the project, including Mark Wahlberg and Silver Linings Playbook director David O. Russell. Night at the Museum director Shawn Levy is currently attached to helm the film.
Of course, this is a huge deal for Holland, who’s about to get his leading role debut in the rebooted Spider-Man franchise this July. Sony is clearly putting a lot of faith in the young star, who was already well received in last year’s Captain America: Civil War. (To say nothing of his dance skills.) Depending on if this new take on Uncharted can get off the ground, the future certainly looks bright for him.



YouTube TV, Google’s over-the-top streaming service, just got an update for its iOS application that adds support for Apple’s AirPlay functionality.
When it launched a few weeks ago, YouTube TV didn’t offer any apps for set-top boxes, meaning that the only way to get YouTube TV content on a television was through Google’s Chromecast. The addition of AirPlay support means that, in lieu of a native Apple TV app, that there’s at least an option now to use the streaming service with Apple’s hardware.
The YouTube TV update adding AirPlay is available now on the App Store.
Silicon Valley is Mike Judge and Alec Berg’s biting comedy about the American tech industry, now in its fourth season. Every week, we’ll be taking one idea, scene, or joke and explain how it ties to the real Silicon Valley and speaks to an issue at the heart of the industry and its everlasting goal to change the world — and make boatloads of money in the process.
Spoilers ahead for the fifth episode of season 4, “The Blood Boy.”
Silicon Valley’s biggest strength is also its most persistent weakness: the real place, located in the drab suburbs just 35 miles south of San Francisco, is itself stranger than fiction. So when the HBO comedy attempts to tackle some of the tech industry’s most outlandish and perplexing happenings, the joke either lands as spot-on satire or falls flat in the face of how ludicrous the real thing is. Because not everyone eats, sleeps, and breathes the tech industry quite like those in the Bay Area, these jokes have to walk a fine line between believable and truly bizarre.
On last night night’s episode, “The Blood Boy,” the show took aim at Silicon Valley’s quest to eliminate death, and it succeeded rather wondrously. This quixotic dream has been well documented over the years, and an excellent New Yorker feature published in April dove deeper than most into the actual science and the philosophical debates shaping the anti-aging industry. Some of the world’s richest, smartest, and most self-serving people think death can be cheated. Humans can live forever, the theory goes, if we just put enough time and money into understanding the myriad ways our bodies and our brains begin to fail.
On Silicon Valley, we have disgraced Hooli co-founder Gavin Belson serving as a stand-in for every egomaniacal supervillain in the tech industry. As part of his quest to live forever, Gavin takes part in the practice of parabiosis, whereby a younger and healthier person’s blood is transfused into an aging recipient to try and restore youthfulness and forestall the effects of aging. The titular “Blood Boy” happens to be a brogrammer named Bryce, Gavin’s “transfusion associate,” who irks Richard by lying about his computer science degree.
This is trademark Silicon Valley these days. The show has become incredibly adept at taking a morsel of a much larger and telling aspect of the tech industry and using it as a springpad for a traditional sitcom subplot. So parabiosis becomes an avenue to have Richard clash with Gavin over how best to launch their new product. Because Bryce suggests casually that a splashy public launch might be better than a stealth one, Gavin runs with it — all while Bryce goes through the motions of removing himself from the transfusion machine. (Later on, we learn that Bryce is secretly writing a tell-all about Gavin while just pretending to be a cash-strapped programmer with healthy blood for the taking.)
The biggest target of this satire is, of course, Peter Thiel, one of the industry’s most infamous venture capitalists and a co-founder of PayPal. When he’s not running a clandestine funding operation to bankrupt news organizations he despises, Thiel is an active supporter of President Trump and an investor in anti-aging ventures. One of these happens to be called Ambrosia, which is working to explore the benefits of parabiosis. These types of transfusions have shown positive effects in clinical trials with mice. But the science is sketchy, and harvesting the blood of the young is ghoulish in the extreme.
This skewering of Thiel is interesting on two levels. Gavin as a character has, in the past, been used more as the idiotic and power-obsessed CEO that is not necessarily restricted to the tech industry. But with the passing of actor Christopher Evan Welch, who played eccentric VC Peter Gregory, the show has shifted some more of the Thiel satire onto Gavin, who considers his closest friends to be his devoted private security guard and a hackish life coach who preaches the gospels of meditation. It’s pulled Gavin’s character in a number of directions, thinning him out quite a bit in the process. So it was, in fact, a bit refreshing to see Gavin exit on “The Blood Boy,” on an apparent quest to “go find himself” after he signs over the valuable peer-to-peer internet patent to Richard.
Silicon Valley’s writers aren’t always able to take these stranger-than-fiction stories about its real-life counterpart and contort them into clever parodies. This is mostly because the show always risks playing to its primary targets, with jokes only understood by those working within the orbit of the tech industry.
With “The Blood Boy,” however, Silicon Valley found a subject just zany enough to paint California’s titans of industry as out-of-touch billionaires while also staying grounded in reality. You as a viewer may have never heard of Ambrosia or parabiosis or even Peter Thiel. But the show’s best jokes are the ones that linger long enough for you to head over to Google and type in, “young blood transfusions,” because a part of you knows that there is just a slight possibility that the joke is actually based on something real. In the case of Gavin’s blood boy, it most certainly is.

Our spinal column is different from that of apes because — yes, you guessed that right — we walk upright on two feet. But when did our distinctive back structure first evolve? The skeleton of an early human ancestor found in Africa shows that some features were already established at least 3.3 million years ago, earlier than previously thought.
The fossil was found to have only 12 rib-bearing vertebrae, the same number as modern humans — and one fewer than most apes. That feature had previously been observed in early humans dated to only 60,000 years ago or later. The findings, published today in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, show that the general structure of our spinal column was already emerging 3.3 million years ago.
The fossil described in the study belongs to a 2-and-a-half-year-old child from the early human species Australopithecus afarensis — the same species as the famous Lucy skeleton. The fossil, called Selam, was discovered in Dikika, Ethiopia in 2000, and has been cleaned and studied ever since. It represents the most complete spinal column of any early human relative — including vertebrae, neck, and rib cage.
"This type of preservation is unprecedented, particularly in a young individual whose vertebrae are not yet fully fused,” study co-author Zeresenay Alemseged, a professor of organismal biology and anatomy at the University of Chicago who discovered Selam, said in a statement.
Selam was sent from the National Museum of Ethiopia to the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility in Grenoble, France, so that its bones could be analyzed using high-resolution imaging technology. The ancient specimen was shown to have only 12 rib-bearing vertebrae and 12 pairs of ribs. That is fewer than most apes and the same as modern humans. It also represents the only known evidence for the presence of 12 rib-bearing vertebrae in early humans prior to 60,000 years ago, the study says.
Researchers also saw that Selam had the distinctive joint transition from rib-bearing vertebrae to lower-back vertebrae found in other early human ancestors. Selam, however, represents the earliest and most complete example, the study says.
The findings suggest that 3.3 million years ago our early ancestors were already on their way to develop a back structure that eventually allowed modern humans to walk straight on two legs. "This structure and its modification through time is one of the key events in the history of human evolution," Alemseged said.
Lengthy stays on board the International Space Station don’t seem to hurt sperm fertility. In a new study, mice on Earth successfully gave birth to litters of pups after being fertilized with sperm that had been freeze-dried for nearly a year on the ISS. It’s potentially good news if, one day, animals and people will have to reproduce beyond Earth. But experts say there is still a lot more research that needs to be done to fully understand how the space environment affects reproduction.
The point of this study, published today in the journal PNAS, was to see if the sperm experienced extensive DNA damage while in orbit around Earth. On the ISS, people receive between 10 to 100 times more radiation than they do on our planet, and the parts of the body most sensitive to that exposure are the reproductive organs.
Sure enough, the sperm from space, which stayed on the station for 288 days between 2013 and 2014, had a bit more DNA damage when compared to sperm that had remained on Earth during that time. However, it didn’t affect the sperm’s ability to fertilize eggs back on our planet. The genome of the resulting offspring was also totally normal and only had minor differences than the pups born from the sperm on Earth, according to the study authors. “We got many healthy offspring from space sperm,” Teruhiko Wakayama, a biologist at the University of Yamanashi in Japan and lead author of the study, wrote in an email to The Verge. “Those pups could not have any genetic damage.”
Having kids in space or on other planets is an important topic for those with dreams of establishing a colony on Mars or elsewhere beyond Earth. And knowing how radiation affects sex organs is just the first step in figuring out if reproduction in space is even possible. The problem, though, is this study barely scratches the surface of the issues associated with sex in space. Radiation is a major concern, but another major variable is how a fetus would grow in an environment without gravity. And we are still uncertain  how that would play out.
“No one got pregnant in space and had the baby,” Dorit Donoviel, associate professor at the Center for Space Medicine at Baylor University, who was not involved with the study, tells The Verge. “An ideal experiment would be to really have mice mate and deliver a litter of pups in space, and I don’t even know if the mating is even feasible for mice in zero gravity.”
Plus, this experiment does not fully capture the radiation exposure that sperm might experience on a mission to Mars, for instance. There are two major sources of space radiation: highly energized particles streaming out from the Sun or deep-space cosmic rays — particles traveling near the speed of light that stem from distant stars either within or beyond our galaxy. On Earth, we’re protected by this radiation thanks to our atmosphere and magnetic field; the magnetic field around our planet, known as the magnetosphere, deflects or captures the incoming particles, and the ones that make it through are mostly absorbed by our atmosphere.
Since the ISS is outside the bulk of our atmosphere, it is exposed to higher doses of these particles. However, the station is still within our magnetosphere, which offers a lot of protection. But anyone traveling to deep-space destinations will be exposed to highly energized particles that can potentially cause a lot more severe DNA damage.
Even though astronauts on the ISS are protected from a lot of radiation, they are counseled about cryopreserving their sperm and eggs just in case, according to Joseph Tash, a professor at the University of Kansas Medical Center who studies how space may affect male and female reproductive health. However, many astronauts have returned home from lower Earth orbit and have had no problems with fertility, according to Donoviel. “I’m not surprised this sperm is fine,” she says. “We know that astronauts who come back from space have been just fine and have had children normally.” She argues that our body has mechanisms for selecting against survival of sperm and eggs that are very damaged.
To really understand the radiation risks, an experiment would need to be done beyond Earth’s protective magnetic shield. But Tash says the only way reproduction in space can be made possible is if “radiation-hardened” facilities are created, to protect growing embryos from exposure. “Given the nine-month gestation for humans, the pregnant mother would also need to be protected by such a facility,” he adds. “So it presents very real habitat, medical, social, and psychological questions that need to be addressed as well.”
But for now, Donoviel says we really need to study if a baby can even grow in a microgravity environment. Since it might be difficult to have mice mating in space, she envisions an experiment in which female mice are launched to the station as soon as they become pregnant and then give birth when they’re up there. That way, the pups develop most of the time in zero gravity. Similar experiments were done in the ‘90s, when pregnant rats were flown for a short time on board the Space Shuttle. The rats gave birth back on Earth, and their offspring had problems properly orienting themselves. Donoviel says there might be even more issues the longer a fetus develops in space. “Embryo development would not be normal, because I think gravitational forces may play a role in how the different organs form,” she says.
Getting pregnant on Mars, though, may be a different story since the planet has one-third the gravity of Earth. Still, it’s unclear how partial gravity may affect a developing embryo, and we won’t know until we test it out. But that’s far away into the future. For now people shouldn’t be thinking about having kids in space anytime soon, Donoviel says. “We’ve got our hands full just keeping adults healthy,” she says. “The last thing I want to worry about is a baby who is going to be a lot more vulnerable.”

The Supreme Court has dealt a significant blow to “patent trolls” that often sue and squeeze a quick payday out of major technology companies using patents that they’ve bought up for that exact purpose. Today, the court unanimously ruled that a defendant should only face patent litigation in the state where it’s incorporated. For Apple, that would be California. For a ton of other US companies, it’s the state of Delaware.
The move is expected to dramatically reduce the number of cases filed with federal courts in eastern Texas, which have frequently sided with patent holders in quick trials involving multi-million-dollar judgements. Nearly 45 percent of all patent infringement cases were filed in the Eastern District of Texas in 2015. The Electronic Frontier Foundation once belittled Marshall, Texas by claiming it’s “probably more well-known as the birthplace of George Foreman than for any technological industry.”
Now, Delaware — where many US companies are incorporated due to friendly business statues — is likely to see a surge in cases. 4,250 patent cases were filed nationwide in 2016, according to Lex Machina.
The Supreme Court case that resulted in this decision couldn’t be much less about technology. It centered on an appeal from TC Heartland, a maker of food sweeteners that argued it shouldn’t have to face a patent suit from Kraft Foods in Delaware since it’s based out of Indiana.
Many tech companies (Adobe, Garmin, HP, HTC, Oracle, Vizio, etc.) and groups including the EFF filed briefs urging the court to hear TC Heartland’s case, insisting that “patent trolls” have used venue laws to “forum shop” and pick and choose districts where they’ve got the best odds of a favorable judgement. Often times, defendants settle patent cases to avoid the costs of discovery and a protracted legal battle.
Even Texas itself filed to support Heartland’s petition alongside attorneys representing other states. “Marshall is so popular for patent suits that a hotel there got a PACER subscription and offered this electronic access to federal court dockets to help sell rooms to lawyers.” The same brief went on to note that “a technology company that finds itself sued frequently in Marshall has seen fit — in an apparent effort to bolster its reputation in town — to sponsor nearly every major festival plus an ice-skating rink in front of the Marshall courthouse.”
Now, patent holders will need to argue their case in courts throughout the entire country if they want to take companies to court.
Universal Pictures is bringing its roster of classic movie monsters back to the forefront with its newly named Dark Universe series — the long-promised web of films kicking off with The Mummy this summer. The next film in the series to hit theaters will be Bride of Frankenstein on Feb. 14, 2019.
Universe has ditched its previous plans to release a Dark Universe movie in 2018 and will instead focus on the 2019 Bride of Frankenstein, which will be directed by Beauty and the Beast’s Bill Condon. There are no details on who will play the titular role, though Universal Pictures chairman Donna Langley called the movie a story about “a very modern woman in a very classic tale.”
As for other characters in the cinematic universe, Johnny Depp and Javier Bardem are already onboard to play the roles of The Invisible Man and Frankenstein’s Monster, respectively, while Russell Crowe is making his debut as Dr. Jekyll in The Mummy. The cast for that film also includes Tom Cruise as the lead and Sofia Boutella in the role of the mummy. According to Universal, the films are connected by the “mysterious, multi-national organization” Prodigium, specifically led by Dr. Jekyll.
In a video released on its website and Twitter, Universal teased a retrospective of the classic films to build hype for its “new world of gods and monsters.”

A sports-free TV package may be coming to an over-the-top streaming service this year, according to a new report from Variety. Viacom, the owner of Comedy Central, MTV, and VH1, is in advanced discussions with a streaming service to become part of an entertainment-only bundle that could cost less than $20 a month, CEO Bob Bakish said at the JPMorgan Global Technology, Media, and Telecom conference.
AMC and Discovery are also in on the talks, according to a report from Bloomberg last month.
The deal, which would cut out high-fee channels like ESPN and drop broadcast channels ABC, NBC, CBS, and Fox, would dramatically reduce the end cost for consumers, and could be priced between $10 and $20 according to Bakish. Variety noted that Bakish also said Viacom was working on repairing its frayed relationship with said streaming service. This could mean Sony’s PlayStation Vue is behind this potential package; it dropped Viacom channels in a pay dispute last November.
Whichever service does release the entertainment-only package, the hope is that a lower fee will entice a larger audience of users more than the current crop of packages from OTT services like Sling, DirecTV Now, and the aforementioned PlayStation Vue have attracted so far. The bigger question is how many people are interested in paying $20 a month for what amounts to fewer options than basic cable?
Nest is apparently just a week or so away from introducing the next generation of its home security camera. According to Android Police, the new Nest Cam will be an indoor camera capable of recording footage in 4K. But there’s a twist: rather than saving and streaming the footage in 4K, Nest will use the extra resolution to provide a better zoom function for the camera. That way, if the camera spots something moving, it’ll be able to crop down to 1080p to provide a zoomed-in look that’s still in HD.
It sounds like a smart approach for the new camera, especially since so few people have devices right now that are capable of streaming 4K (on top of that, 4K would mean huge video files that’d be tough on bandwidth and storage). Plus, if the camera does catch something, being able to tell what’s actually moving is ultimately what matters, and this method ought to improve what homeowners are able to see.
Android Police says there’ll be a few other changes made for this generation, too. There’ll reportedly be a ring around the lens that lights up to indicate when the camera is recording; it’ll switch over to USB-C for power; and some of Nest’s subscription-only features will be opened up to all owners — the report speculates that could include person alerts, which send a notification to Nest Cam owners when a person walks into the camera’s line of sight.
The upgraded Nest Cam will reportedly resemble the outdoor Nest Cam and will sell for $300. That’s $100 more than the current indoor Nest Cam, which suggests that model might stick around while the new one is added as a higher-end alternative. Android Police says it should be announced by the end of the month.
To Ford Motor Company, it must have felt like salt on a hemorrhaging wound.
Last month, Tesla became the world’s most valuable automaker. Never mind that Ford saw record profits last year and that Tesla manufactures a fraction of the vehicles that Ford makes.
The plucky upstart automaker headed up by Elon Musk, a dedicated visionary often compared to Ford’s own founder, Henry Ford, was winning the stock market. For years, the general public had been besotted by Tesla and its gauzy promises. As a journalist who has covered the car industry for over a decade, the first brand people ask me about is almost always Tesla. Sure, there are legitimate criticisms on the viability of Tesla’s business plan and whether it can deliver the Model 3. But while traditional automakers publicly roll their eyes, privately they are scrambling to alter that perception and to keep up. Ford is at the top of that list.
Ford has spent the last two years declaring itself a mobility company. It announced it would bring a self-driving car to the market in 2021. Last fall, it offered journalists rides in its self-driving car on the company campus. It touted its investments in the LIDAR developer Velodyne, and then in February, a billion dollar investment into Argo, a producer of self-driving AI. But the math and the campaign for public perception haven’t swayed investors.
Ford’s wan stock price was the end game for its CEO Mark Fields last week. A so-called mobility company that makes most of its money selling full-size pick up trucks and SUVs wasn’t moving the needle. And talk wasn’t cheap. Spending in flashy ways wasn’t producing results to keep up with the pace of innovation happening in real time.
Tesla’s Autopilot system is already in the marketplace while Ford has Sync, a connectivity system essential to its future that has not wowed critics. Meanwhile, Ford’s crosstown rival, GM, has the fully electric Chevy Bolt and Maven, a car-sharing program available to consumers, that have added buzz. Then in January, Waymo showed up at the North American International Auto Show in Ford’s backyard, armed with miles of self-driving data. And then there were outside forces, like a presidential administration that insists American carmakers needed to go back to old ways of doing business by lowering emissions standards, a blow to Ford’s electric car strategy.
Ford also has to answer to its 200,000 employees. Last week, the company announced layoffs of 10 percent of its workforce, a move that doesn’t inspire confidence. Ford’s effort to be seen as a company steeped in a dreamy vision of the future wasn’t working out. Ford needed a new game plan.
So what did Ford do? It opted to shake things up. Today the Detroit automaker announced that it has parted ways with longtime executive and CEO Mark Fields and selected Jim Hackett as the new frontman. It’s a move designed to send a message to investors and the broader public about Ford’s willingness to make hard changes. Hackett, previously headed up Ford Smart Mobility, the arm of the company dedicated to building its autonomous driving program, and before that spent two decades as CEO at Steelcase, a furniture company. He also resurrected the University of Michigan football program and brought in Jim Harbaugh (which means something to Michigan folks, who take sports success seriously.) The Ford family, also owners of the Detroit Lion NFL franchise, wants to show that it’s still in the game. Both Bill Ford and Edsel B. Ford II serve on the Ford Motor Company board.
Bill Ford, the executive chairman and great-grandson of Henry Ford, has been conducting his own deep dives into tech culture. He was an early proponent of green cars, served on the eBay board for a decade, and founded the venture capital firm Fontinalis. At a press conference held this morning, Bill Ford commented on how Silicon Valley leaders reacted when Hackett entered the room. “Everyone of them walked up to Jim and gave him a hug. To hear the leaders out there talk about him, shows the breadth of the leader he is.”
In the past Ford has turned outside the company to great success. During a bad business cycle in 2006, it was former Boeing chief Alan Mullaly who veered Ford back on track and helped the company weather the 2009 recession. Bill Ford said he wouldn’t compare the two leaders, but still at the press conference he couldn’t resist. “They are different leaders for different times,” he said, and then added, “Alan really captured the hearts and minds of our employees, and made them feel that we could win and that they could have fun on the journey, and I’ll think we’ll see that with Jim.”
What Ford really craves is Tesla’s magic. Tesla is the proverbial underdog that keeps hope alive, though it has yet to produce a mass market car. Elon Musk’s every move is fascinating and his cryptic Tweets are news worthy. Making and selling cars for Ford is not enough. To keep up, Ford needs Silicon Valley. That’s why Tesla’s valuation, as lofty as it seemed, stung.
"Given how rapidly the transportation sector is expected to transform in the next decade, Ford can't afford to be behind the eight ball when it comes to emerging technology,” said Jessica Caldwell, Edmunds Executive Director of Industry Analysis. “If we’ve learned anything from the phenomenon of Elon Musk, it’s that Wall Street likes a tech/innovation guy. Putting the head of their mobility division at the helm indicates Ford is trying to send a strong message to stockholders that the company intends to be a dominant player in the future of mobility."
What’s not clear is if putting Hackett in charge is a Hail Mary to assuage investor worries, or if Ford is doubling down on the existing playbook to dig deeper into Silicon Valley circles and further tech company partnerships. Or maybe it’s a bit of both. To play in the self-driving game, Ford needs to do more than spend money. The real investment is in recruiting and retaining top talent that won’t get bogged down in company politics. It’s learning to make hard changes not just from the top down, but from the ground up. Let the draft picks begin.
Jeff Bezos has taken some business inspiration from George Bluth Sr. on Arrested Development. According to a Wall Street Journal report, Amazon has installed two banana stands at its Seattle headquarters. In two years, the stands have given more than 1.7 million free bananas to staffers — altering local banana sales in the process.
The Journal reports that Amazon opened the first Community Banana Stand in late 2015 as a public service. Bananas were seen a healthy, fully compostable, and affordable snack for employees and locals.
To support this operation, the stands have so-called “banistas” and “bananagers” (really!) to keep up the stock of the slightly radioactive fruit and keep track of how many are given away. So many bananas are dispensed on a regular basis that the stands have forced businesses like the nearby vegetarian cafe Anar to rethink how it uses bananas in its food and drinks. When one of the biggest tech companies in the world is giving them away for free, selling bananas is a nonstarter.
If anything justifies the unasked-for return of Arrested Development for a fifth season, this might be it.
You might’ve seen a leaked image earlier today of Samsung’s upcoming Galaxy S8 Active for AT&T, but the carrier is also launching a ruggedized smartphone for customers on a tight budget. The LG X Venture is an Android 7.0 Nougat device with IP68 dust and water resistance, and the company claims the phone has passed 14 different MIL-STD 810G tests, including drop and temperature evaluations.
It’s exclusive to AT&T in the United States, but will also be sold internationally. AT&T will sell the X Venture for $11 per month beginning May 26th, which comes out to a little over $260 after 24 months.
The X Venture has physical buttons, so it can be more easily used with gloves, and a non-slip back texture reminiscent of the V10. There’s a QuickButton on the side that can be customized to launch your favorite app; by default it launches LG’s Outdoor Essentials app, which bundles numerous tools and software features together, including a barometer, compass, exercise tracker, weather, and flashlight. Double tapping the button can enable the device’s Glove Mode, which makes it easier to interact with the display in all weather conditions.
The battery is also pretty huge at 4,100mAh — especially when you considering it only has to power a 5.2-inch 1080p display and low-end Snapdragon 435 processor. Here’s the rundown of other specs:
Samsung’s Galaxy S8 Active is likely to be a significant departure from previous ruggedized versions of the company’s flagship smartphone. The physical buttons on the front are gone, which might leave people in certain work environments to give the X Venture a closer look — if they can deal with the far less powerful hardware.
Last week’s I/O conference saw Google reiterate its positioning as an AI-first company, a move it first highlighted a year previously. But perhaps the first event that made the public take note of the rise of AI, or artificial intelligence, came a few months earlier than that. An AI called AlphaGo scored a momentous victory over Lee Se-dol, one of the all-time best players of Go, the staggeringly complex ancient Chinese board game.
In defeating Lee 4-1, DeepMind, the British startup acquired by Google in 2014 and developer of AlphaGo, achieved something that many computer scientists believed would be decades away. But the matter wasn’t quite settled among the Go community. The world’s current number one, a 19-year-old Chinese player named Ke Jie, came out after AlphaGo’s first win declaring that he believed he could defeat the AI; Ke toned down his rhetoric as AlphaGo further demonstrated his dominance over the series, but the point remains that AlphaGo hadn’t quite beaten the best humanity had to offer.
This week, the matter will be settled once and for all. Ke Jie and AlphaGo will face off in a three-game match in Wuzhen, China, as part of the Future of Go Summit being held by Google. As well as the Go matches, the event will host a series of panels from many of Google’s artificial intelligence and machine learning luminaries, who we can expect to expand on many of the initiatives Google laid out last week at I/O.
Related
AlphaGo’s capabilities will further be tested in two exhibition matches with intriguing stipulations. The first, Pair Go, will see two Chinese pros face off against each other alongside an AlphaGo teammate: since Go strategy requires immense foresight and strategy, the helping hand could be more of a hindrance in practice for both human and computer, removing their abilities to plan ahead. Much of the drama last year came from AlphaGo’s unorthodox, baffling moves that later turned out to be inspired and even beautiful, so it will be fascinating to see how the AI performs under these conditions.
The second exhibition match, Team Go, is more straightforward: five Chinese pro players will basically gang up on AlphaGo, working together in an attempt to take the AI down. Will the collaborative approach help the human players by providing an avenue for new ideas, or will it be a case of too many people cluttering the strategy? Either way, it’ll make for an opponent unlike any AlphaGo has faced to date. And both stipulation matches will demonstrate not only a wider range of AlphaGo’s capabilities than before, but how the arrival of AI has changed the way that humans play Go.
Most eyes will be on the Ke Jie showdown, however, and with good reason. If Ke wins, it won’t exactly diminish DeepMind’s achievement, but it may prompt a slowing of the AI hype train that has occasionally threatened to derail over the past year. If AlphaGo wins, on the other hand, it’ll confirm that the game of Go has been essentially beaten, and no doubt prompt further handwringing about the machines taking over.
Related
“Instead of diminishing the game, as some feared, artificial intelligence has actually made human players stronger and more creative,” DeepMind CEO and co-founder Demis Hassabis said upon the announcement of the Future of Go Summit. “It’s humbling to see how pros and amateurs alike, who have pored over every detail of AlphaGo’s innovative game play, have actually learned new knowledge and strategies about perhaps the most studied and contemplated game in history. Clearly, there remains much more to learn from this partnership between Go’s best human players and its most creative AI competitor.“
What’s going to happen? Last time, no-one really knew what to predict, but AlphaGo’s strong showing against Lee Se-dol makes it the clear favorite to take the three-game match — it’s likely to be even stronger with another year or so of machine learning under its artificial belt. There’s also the small matter that the AI has already beaten Ke Jie multiple times before in online games conducted under a pseudonym, though that’s a very different setting than the formality of an official match.
“My thoughts are that both Ke Jie and the team will have a low chance of winning because when AlphaGo played 60 games online, no one managed to expose its weakness,” says Lee Ha-jin, secretary general of the International Go Federation until last year and a pro player herself. “If I had to choose, I would say the team has a better chance.”
Ultimately, of course, the promise of AI is about more than solving board games. This week you can expect to hear DeepMind speak about its health initiatives, and Google should go into further detail about how machine learning is already improving many of its products. But the summit will also serve as a fascinating focal point for the impact of AI; an abstract board game created thousands of years ago in China is now right at the center of what could be one of the most profound technological developments of our time. Go may not be the endgame, but it’s a beguiling, engrossing context for these conversations to be held in.
“I am still excited to see the games!” says Lee Ha-jin, who doesn’t particularly seem to mind if AlphaGo prevails. “Go is like a journey and what happens in the journey is more interesting than the result.”
The Verge is in Wuzhen covering the Future of Go Summit. Various events and games will be streamed at this link.

The Onion’s latest project is a massive multimedia undertaking: 700 pages of fake leaks from President Donald Trump’s White House, including a presidential daily briefing rendered in the style of an Applebee’s kids placemat and emails from Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump begging for permission to sit on top of the Pentagon to look for UFOs.
The parody hits Betsy DeVos, the CIA, Reince Priebus, the EPA, a handful of Republican congresspeople, Kellyanne Conway, and dozens more. There are even four faux-documents about Trump’s concerns regarding the “threat posed by lighthouses,” which are “unpatriotic” because they face their lights away from the U.S. shore, and disconcerting because they’re “too tall.”
'The Onion' has done what no other news organization ever could: expose the Trump Administration. https://t.co/rif9tib8ft #TrumpDocuments pic.twitter.com/DbUlJrxKPw
Most of the documents are parodies of email leaks, which have become not just a economic and political weapon, but something of a surreal pop culture phenomenon in the last few years. The project broadly speaks to the frenzy around mysterious White House leaks, BuzzFeed’s infamous “Peegate” document dump, and a general clamoring to simply “see the receipts” amid political controversy.
Fittingly, the sheer volume of the “documents” means it would take hours to wade through all of The Onion’s project. Much like the leaks that make for huge online moments, it simulates the feeling that anyone can be the detective who finds the crucial bit of information in the haystack.
As of this writing, The Onion is about 30 minutes into reading all of the pages out loud on Facebook Live. The stream began with a satirical editor’s note, mimicking the self-laudatory “we did our jobs and confirmed these facts” preambles often affixed to somber news reports.
BREAKING: An anonymous source in the West Wing has provided ‘The Onion’ with a trove of documents that provide an exclusive and shocking glimpse into the Trump administration.
This impressive stunt comes just one week after The Onion-owned ClickHole rebranded as PatriotHole to parody right-wing news blogs that shout about patriotism, conspiracy, and liberal tears.
China’s geese are too well-behaved for their own good, and it’s causing their populations to dwindle. Instead of sneaking out of their wetland habitat into the nearby farmlands to hunt for food, some of these geese stay no matter what — in wetlands that might not have enough for them to eat.
Geese are well known for migrating in the fall to spend their winters in warmer climates. Some geese winter in Europe and North America, and they’re doing fine. But Chinese geese, which migrate from the the frozen steppes of Mongolia and Russia to the more temperate areas of the Yangtze River in southern China, are in trouble. To figure out why, scientists attached tracking devices to 67 wild geese and followed them throughout the winter. The results are published today in the journal Current Biology.
The 67 wild geese represented five different species. Geese from two species that were doing OK occasionally went into the rice paddies to get more food. But 50 birds that represented species with dwindling populations never left the wetlands at all. That puts them far more at the mercy of the natural environment — and that’s bad, because China’s wetlands are becoming more and more degraded.
Of course, there are downsides to sneaking off to the neighboring rice paddies, too. There’s human activity there, and humans like to trap or hunt the geese. Also, farmers raise domestic geese, so there might not be that much food left anyway. But clearly it still seems like it’s worth it, and we don’t know why certain species end up as prisoners in places that don’t meet their needs.
Go, fair geese. Go to the rice paddies and eat your fill. Be free!
In January, Facebook disabled more than 14,000 accounts for revenge porn and sexual extortion, and 33 of those incidents involved children, according to a report from The Guardian. The outlet also reported that Facebook moderators escalated tens of thousands of potential cases that month.
Other documents on moderation rules obtained by the outlet reportedly make clear that, as long as the content is between adults, Facebook allows content showing “moderate displays of sexuality, open-mouthed kissing, clothed simulated sex and pixelated sexual activity.” The company also makes allowances for sexual jokes.
The documents, according to The Guardian, offer some examples of approved explicit content, such as “I’m gonna eat that pussy,” or “Hello ladies, wanna suck my cock?” One example cited — “I’m gonna fuck you” — would be approved unless more detail on the act is also included.
Facebook seems to walk a fine line in other sexual content rules seen by The Guardian. The company allows some forms of nude art, for example, but a document says digitally generated sexual images are not allowed.
The Guardian obtained a trove of documents that outline Facebook’s strategies for removing content. Over the weekend, it began publishing stories from those documents. Today, it also reported on documents suggesting footage of children being bullied was permitted.
Facebook has faced major criticism over how it deals with content moderation. Apart from recent incidents involving violent videos, the company was widely chastised last year for removing a historic photo of a naked Vietnamese girl fleeing from napalm.

Samsung is offering a new deal for the Galaxy S8 that’s pretty appealing if you’re a T-Mobile customer: buy one S8 from Samsung’s website, get a second one free after a instant rebate.
There have been a few deals for the Galaxy S8 offering a second, free phone from carriers (including T-Mobile), but Samsung’s deal is refreshingly simple and free of fine print. Unlike other deals, where you had to activate a new line or lease both phones, Samsung’s offer just requires that you activate one of the two S8s on an existing T-Mobile line through the Samsung website, after which the company will issue you a $750 refund to cover the second phone on your original method of payment within seven to ten days.
Samsung is also throwing in a free “Entertainment Kit” for any Galaxy S8 purchases from its site, which includes a Clear View stand, a 64GB MicroSD card, a six month Netflix subscription, which further sweetens the pot.
The buy one, get one free deal is valid now through Samsung’s website for “a limited time,” so if you’re looking to take advantage of the offer, it might be best to act quickly.
The first thing you notice about the Acer Predator 21 X is the size.
Whether you’re seeing it for the first time as you take it out of the custom Pelican case it ships in, passing someone struggling to carry it on their way to a meeting, or sitting down to see it at a desk day after day, the sheer bulk of the 21-inch, almost 19-pound laptop will shock you almost every time. It’s a laptop that looks like it has grown strong dining on the blood of other, smaller laptops. The screen by itself is thicker than a MacBook Pro.
Originally announced at IFA 2016, the 21 X was never meant to be a practical or affordable option. It’s the ultimate "what if?" device, a glimpse at what hardware makers can accomplish when things like common sense and logic are thrown out the window.
Weighing in at an impressive 18.76 pounds, the Predator 21 X physically dwarfs pretty much any other laptop ever made. And with an $8,999.99 price tag, weight isn't the only place the 21 X beats out any competitor. Put simply: this is the biggest, most powerful, and most expensive gaming laptop ever made. And yes, it is technically still a laptop, with a built-in screen, keyboard, mouse, and batteries that, at least in theory, allow it to function away from a desk.
Acer has made the most of the enormous size of the 21 X, cramming what feels like every inch of it with some serious firepower. Like the external design, the 21 X's spec sheet feels built for sheer overkill. A Core i7 Skylake Intel processor that’s overclocked up to 4.1 GHz. Two SLI linked GTX 1080 GPUs, with a total of 16GB of dedicated onboard VRAM. USB-C, USB 3.0, an HDMI port, two DisplayPorts, and an SD card slot. 64GB of DDR4 system RAM. Five fans. Five storage slots: three SATA, two PCIe. (Acer ships a single configuration, with one 1TB hard drive and two 500GB SSDs in a RAID configuration.) A Tobii eye-tracking rig, for further immersion. And of course, the show-stopping curved 21-inch screen, which Acer highlights as the first in a laptop (the screen also features a 120Hz refresh rate and NVIDIA’s G-Sync technology). Side by side with any other laptop (gaming or otherwise), it almost feels like the punchline to a joke: "You call that a laptop? No, THIS is a laptop."
While the scale and specs the 21 X may be impressive (as is the engineering to actually build it), Acer hasn't taken any dramatic departures when it comes to the aesthetic design. Between the slew of glowing LED lights, the sharp edges on the plastic case, the giant plastic exhaust vents, and the enormous metallic blue dragon that graces the vast expanse of space above the keyboard, this is a gaming laptop through and through. (As a side note, the blue dragon is one of 20 options for the panel, which is removable to access internal hardware.)
Battery life is a disappointment with the 21 X, even compared to the lowered expectations for gaming laptops. The Predator lasted just an hour and 51 minutes on the Verge Battery Test, which cycles a series of web pages through Google Chrome. Unplugging it for gaming resulted in even poorer results that brought the time to under an hour (exactly how much depends on how hard you’re pushing it) along with a hit to performance to boot. Hypothetically, you can use the Predator unplugged for a few minutes, but it was clearly designed to remain attached to the nearest wall. And the power bricks — yes, there are two of them, each individually massive — are made even more comical when placed together in the custom rubber enclosure that comes with the laptop.
Given that the Predator 21 X is so obviously, single-mindedly focused toward gaming, I figured the only natural thing to do with it was to try and use it as a regular computer for my day-to-day life. Look, I was curious to see how it would work.
In short: The 21 X is simply not very good at regular computer tasks. Breaking that down a bit more, there is, of course, the size, which I’ve already said plenty about. But wrestling through a door while desperately trying not to drop the $9,000 computer I was holding really highlighted for me how absurd it was to even try to use this thing in an office setting.
Additionally, the 21 X features a full mechanical keyboard, complete with standard desktop Cherry MX Brown switches. It is loud, very loud, to the point where the entire pod of co-workers near me had either commented, complained, or possibly plotted my death in a secret Slack room. (I personally find the MX Brown to be a good middle ground for both typing and gaming use, but I can see why the noise would get on people’s nerves. Sorry, Dan / Ashley / Kaitlyn / Lizzie / Michael / Kwame!)
But the keyboard itself is incredibly awkward to use for non-gaming purposes: it’s positioned right up at the front edge of the laptop, instead of farther back. That means that there’s no natural place to rest your palms except for the optional, magnetic palm rest, which becomes yet another thing to carry around. But even with the rest, given the high height that the keyboard actually sits at due to the thickness of the 21 X, I found it to be uncomfortable to use for extended periods of time, which drove me back to my MacBook Pro when I needed to get actual work done.
The same can be said about the screen. On paper, the massive 21-inch curved panel seems like it would be great for productivity. But the resolution is relatively low at 2800 x 1080 pixels — sure, it’s wide, but it comes out to the same vertical resolution of a regular 1080p panel. That said, it was nice to be able to stack tons of windows side by side, even if I had to manually adjust text size smaller to fit a reasonable amount of information.
There’s also the trackpad, which has the neat parlor trick of magnetically detaching and flipping over to turn into a number pad. As Windows computers go, the trackpad is actually really good. Acer has included Windows Precision drivers, so it’s accurate, and the array of swipes and gestures all work well. But the trackpad itself is just too small for navigating so wide a screen even with mouse sensitivity turned up, and I generally preferred to use an external mouse even for regular work.
To be clear, all three of these issues — the keyboard, the screen, and the trackpad — all vanish when it comes to actually gaming. The keyboard, while poorly positioned for typing, is much more comfortable when it comes to mashing the WASD keys while running around in Overwatch. The screen, which resulted in comically sized windows for most websites, gives a wide, almost cinematic experience in Battlefield 1. And the trackpad — well, if you're using the trackpad on the 21 X for gaming, then you're already missing the point of it.
As for performance? You might be able to trip up the 21 X if you do advanced CAD work or heavy video editing, but there's certainly nothing in my workflow that could manage it. Ultimately, using the Predator 21 X for regular work feels a lot like driving a Lamborghini to a supermarket — sure, it'll get you there, but that's not really the point of owning one.
When it comes to the actual act of playing games on the Predator 21 X — its sole raison d'être, — there’s actually surprising little to say. This is a $9,000 computer built solely towards that purpose and function. Of course it runs games well. With the kind of hardware on tap here, it would have been surprising if things didn’t run well.
Still, it was my duty to put the Predator through its paces, and the results were pretty much as expected. But beyond the binary of whether or not games worked well, it’s the experience of gaming on the Predator 21 X that make it stand out. Put practicality aside for a moment, and you’ve got perhaps the single most powerful laptop ever made at your disposal. The curved screen dominates your field of view, and really does lend itself to a more immersive experience (assuming the game you’re playing supports a 21:9 aspect ratio — not all do).
And this thing is just ludicrously, almost needlessly fast. Overwatch — one of my favorite games for comparative testing across gaming PCs, since it works on almost anything — barely dipped below 200 frames per second. Battlefield 1, one of the most graphically intensive games on PC these days, ran smoothly even at Ultra settings. And Rise of the Tomb Raider’s sprawling vistas look incredible, even at maximum resolution. Plus, the 21 X actually runs quietly, all things considered — unless you intentionally set the fans to maximum, in which case the five fans spin up to what is amount to gale force winds.
But while impressive, it’s still the kind of high gaming performance that illustrates exactly why the 21 X is impractical. Does the Predator 21 X run games well? Undoubtedly. But it doesn’t run them $6,000 better than a less powerful desktop, or even a comparable one. Between the sheer bulk of the laptop and chargers, the almost non-existent battery life, and the oversized carrying case you’ll need to move it around anywhere farther than down the hall, the 21 X is barely easier to carry around than a desktop. (In fact, there’s tons of desktop computers that are more portable.) Even if you want to just park the Predator 21 X at a desk and pretend its a desktop computer, you’ll probably want to use a larger external monitor and a separate keyboard, which could be difficult to fit on a single surface. And given that it’s perfectly possible to build a similarly specced desktop PC for roughly half what the Predator 21 X costs, you’re paying a massive premium for what amounts to a laughable idea of mobility.
But that’s sort of the point to the Predator. It’s not practical because it’s not meant to be practical. It’s a trophy for anyone who buys it, a status symbol of having the biggest and best thing out there. Of course it doesn’t fit on a desk or in a bag — because the Predator is meant to stand out, to make people take note.
Despite all the shortcomings in price and practicality, I’m still glad the Predator 21 X exists. While it’s probably as unobtainable as a multi-million dollar supercar at an auto show for the vast majority of consumers, much like a Bugatti or a Ferrari, the technology and engineering that went into making the 21 X can trickle down to the more affordable models in Acer’s Predator line. It’s something that we’re already seeing direct results of with laptops like the upcoming Predator Triton 700, which clearly draws from its larger cousin when it comes to design. And at the end of the day, it’s just cool that someone has managed to stuff this incredible amount of hardware into a single device for to achieve this singular purpose at the highest level possible.
So, yes, the Predator 21 X is overkill. But sometimes, overkill is underrated.

Video by Andrew Dowd and Phil Esposito Audio by Andrew Marino



Nearly eight months after the phone was announced, Mophie is introducing a battery pack for the Google Pixel XL. The juice pack will extend talk time on the Pixel XL past 50 hours, thanks to a 2,950mAh rechargeable battery, which can be wirelessly charged using any Qi charging solution. The pack can also be charged using a USB-C cable.
The juice pack comes with Mophie’s usual slate of features, including prioritizing phone charging before the battery pack, the ability to shut the pack off while keeping the case on, and an LED indicator to display remaining battery life and charge status. And it’ll save your phone in the inevitable case that you drop it.
The Mophie juice pack for the Google Pixel XL is available today at Mophie.com and at Verizon retail stores for $99.

Steven Yang quit his job at Google in the summer of 2011 to build the products he felt the world needed: a line of reasonably priced accessories that would be better than the ones you could buy from Apple and other big-name brands. These accessories — batteries, cables, chargers — would solve our most persistent gadget problem by letting us stay powered on at all times. There were just a few problems: Yang knew nothing about starting a company, building consumer electronics, or selling products.
“I was a software engineer all my life at Google. I didn’t know anyone in the electronics manufacturing world,” Yang tells me over Skype from his office in Shenzhen, China. But he started the company regardless, thanks in no small part to his previous experience with Amazon’s sellers marketplace, a platform for third-party companies and tiny one- or two-person teams interested in selling directly to consumers. He named the company Anker, after the German word for ship anchor.
Anker has since become the most popular brand of portable battery packs on Amazon.
Portable chargers had a bit of a standout moment last summer, when players of the wildly popular and battery-hogging Pokémon Go could be seen roaming the streets, their phones constantly plugged in. But these accessories have existed for years as a remedy for our battery woes since the standard smartphone tends to last no more than a day on a single charge. So in airports, the back of cabs, and on city streets we’re plugging into lithium-ion slabs in our pockets and bags to stay connected. The market for portable battery packs generated $360 million in the 12 months ending in March 2017 in the US alone. The brands behind these packs are largely anonymous — Kmashi, Jackery, and iMuto — and they often stay that way.
Except Anker. The steady rise of the company’s profile is proof that it’s possible to meet one very specific consumer need and ride that wave as it continues to ripple out to other markets. A majority of Anker’s sales come from cables and wall chargers, and it’s now moving into the smart home and auto market — anywhere a plug and a cable can solve a problem.
Yang and his team started a company with the sole purpose of selling a better third-party accessory. But they stumbled onto a more lucrative reality: mobile phones, once niche luxury items, are now ubiquitous centerpieces of our digital lives. Each of these phones, and all the products that connect to them, need their own cable and plug. And each and every day these devices die before we want them to.
If there’s anything you should know about smartphone development over the last 10 years, it’s this: batteries are not lasting longer. Phones may be thinner and faster, with larger screens and better cameras, but they don’t stay powered for longer than a day, perhaps 36 hours at best.
The culprit is the fundamental science of lithium-ion batteries, which are tremendous at storing energy but only within limited size and capacity constraints.
The lithium-ion batteries we have today operate at about a fifth of their potential storage capacity, says Lynden Archer, a professor of chemical engineering at Cornell University. And yet that’s still at about 90 percent of the maximum potential today’s battery science allows. “A breakthrough would require a new paradigm,” he says.
That stagnation has allowed Anker to flourish. “A huge part of Anker’s success is the fact that our batteries don’t last long enough,” says Joanna Stern, a technology columnist and gadget reviewer for The Wall Street Journal. “They saw that accessories needed to be made to address customers’ pain points. They’re making the chargers, the cases, the cords — and they’re making it for affordable prices so you can have one of these in every place you are.”
Mobile battery packs weren’t the company’s initial goal. In the late 2000s, Yang identified a consumer need not being met: well-built, reliable laptop battery replacements. “You have a Dell or HP laptop — let’s assume you got it in 2009 — and in 2011 the battery is dying and you want to get a new one,” he says. Back then you had two choices: buy directly from Dell or HP, with a high price tag, or buy a white-label battery that’s cheap but poorly made. “Which one do I want to buy?” asks Yang. “The answer is neither of them.”
Yang saw a desire for a better type of accessory — one that wouldn’t cost as much as a replacement straight from the original manufacturer, but that would be of a high enough quality to earn consumers’ trust. Before he could sell that product, he needed to figure out how to make it.
It was a long and painful process. After he quit his job at Google in July 2011, Anker took 12 months just to prototype its first laptop battery. That was even after Yang and the core team moved to Shenzhen to find reliable manufacturing partners. “I knew that if I stayed in California and had people FedEx me prototypes in a week, it was just not going to work,” he says.
Many hardware companies, especially crowdfunded ones in the US, learn that lesson the hard way, missing deadlines and hitting snags that lead to months-long delays. A solid supply chain is so crucial to a hardware company’s survival that there’s an entire consulting industry around helping startups find suppliers and set expectations.
Critical to avoiding these pitfalls was Dongpong Zhao, Google’s then-head of sales in China. Zhao joined Anker in early 2012, and helped Yang build out the company’s supply chain. Anker was made up of around ten people at the time. “Think of it as a small family business instead of like an actual company,” Yang says. The company tirelessly built out a supply chain in its first year and began testing its first products — the laptop chargers and batteries it would begin selling direct to consumers on Amazon.
From there, Anker ventured into smartphone batteries with a replacement unit for the HTC Sensation. “We were able to make cellphone battery cells that actually had slightly better capacity,” Yang says. “That got us quite the reputation.” Early on, Anker developed close relationships with suppliers in Asia, including Panasonic and anode supplier BTR, to help test and quickly develop new batteries.
Yang says he and Anker’s small team “definitely saw the explosion of smart devices” as its biggest and most obvious opportunity, and Anker started aggressively expanding into portable battery packs, wall chargers, and cables. By the end of 2012, after shifting more resources toward portable chargers, Yang says Anker went from selling 100 to 1,000 products per day.
“The challenge wasn’t selling products,” Yang says. “It was making products and making sure they were high-quality as well. That’s why we spent a majority of our effort on R&D and product development.” The company does a majority of its sales directly to consumers over Amazon Marketplace, where a combination of strong reviews, low prices, and prominent placement in search rankings can turn a single product into a lucrative line.
For the accessories market, which tends to piggyback off trends in mainstream consumer electronics, a true breakthrough is rare. But Anker found one in charging, based on the realization that while batteries may not be improving, charging time certainly was. According a study conducted last year by PhoneArena, it took more than two hours on average to charge a device to 100 percent in 2013. Today, it can be done in almost half the time.
So Anker set out to make the fastest chargers available.
Take the PowerPort 5, a matte black rectangle no larger than a deck of playing cards, with five USB ports. When it was first introduced in 2015, it was the only accessory on the market capable of charging five devices simultaneously at optimal speed. Or the company’s standard PowerCore portable charger, roughly the size of a credit card and just under one inch thick — a white block encasing 10,000mAh of lithium-ion battery cells. It has four pinholes that light up in LED blue when you press an elliptical button on the top to check its remaining charge. It can refill a depleted iPhone 7 in just over 60 minutes nearly four times over before it needs to be recharged.
Most Anker charging products have one signature: the PowerIQ logo. Launched in 2013, the company’s proprietary charging standard is now present on nearly all of its batteries and wall plugs. The technology, carried by a small chip inside each charger, identifies whatever device is being plugged in, be it an iPhone 7 Plus, Google Pixel, or an iPad Pro 9.7-inch, in order to detect and deliver the maximum current the product allows. Anker says the technology can shave hours off the amount of time it takes to reach a full charge. A next-generation version of the chip, a sequel to PowerIQ, is slated to start shipping in new Anker charging products later this year, allowing for smaller and lighter accessories.
On top of its products’ technical advantages, Anker banks on looks to make its chargers stand out. Brand manager Elisa Lu says every device’s packaging is carefully thought out from the moment customers receive the product, to when they open it and use it. Devices come in a white-and-light-blue box with the name Anker printed in all caps across the front. Inside is a meticulously packaged arrangement of lightweight cardboard. Anker products carry that new gadget smell — a blend of peculiar odors from the evaporation of chemical compounds in the plastics and the epoxy coatings of the device.
Beside its red cables, which Anker offers in both standard and braided nylon versions, and a single one-off red battery pack, the company sells products in only two color options: black and white. All this has a strategic business purpose. “When our consumers receive our products, we want to make sure they know they are getting it from a reliable and trustworthy company,” Lu says. Brand trust is a pivotal consideration when purchasing what may seem like random electronics off Amazon.
Inside the the box with Anker’s larger products, you’ll also find a small square piece of paper with two questions: are you happy, or are you unhappy? If you’re unhappy, a block of text instructs you to contact Anker customer support via phone, email, or on its website. If you’re satisfied, it asks you to tell your friends or family. Better yet, leave an Amazon review.
In many ways, Anker’s success is born from the failures of premier manufacturers like Apple and Samsung. Where those companies introduce points of friction — like ever-thinner devices with short battery lives — Anker offers a remedy.
“My feeling is that Anker is a success because Apple offers such subpar and expensive accessories,” says Stern, who’s often recommended Anker products in her WSJ column. It may be surprising that Apple sat idly as the accessory market ballooned around it; it took the company years to develop its own battery case for the iPhone to compete with Mophie. But Apple has always favored high margins on premium products, even the cables and earbuds it sells in the Apple Store.
This has given ample room to companies like Anker, with the low overhead of an e-commerce business, to sell similar products of near-identical quality for $10 to $20 cheaper. And where Apple and others failed to develop products of their own like multi-port wall plugs and portable chargers, Anker saw the opportunity and capitalized on it. The company is quick to fill gaps created by smartphone manufacturers. When Apple removed the headphone jack on the iPhone 7, for instance, Anker saw a giant opportunity to begin producing new dongles and other cable adapters to help consumers adjust.
But mastering Amazon was the real key to securing Anker’s future.
If you head over to Amazon.com right now and peruse the retailer’s most popular smartphone accessories and you’ll find Anker products at the top. Search for a generic accessory like “cellphone wall charger” or “Lightning cable” and you’ll find the Anker brand high up in the search results, typically with a 4.5 or 5-star rating. In fact, Anker products take up the first five slots on Amazon’s list of best-selling portable batteries. And alongside the ratings, you’ll find thousands of customer reviews — reviews that the company scans meticulously for ideas on how to improve their development process.
Two years before he left Google, Yang became intimately familiar with Amazon’s Marketplace when he built an automated system for a friend who was selling third-party products on Amazon as a side business. It essentially took care of aspects of the business like inventory, logistics and fulfillment, and sales tracking. “It took me two months, evenings and weekends, to develop this system,” Yang explained in a video produced by Amazon last year to promote entrepreneurship on its platform. “Within a month, she was fulfilling 300 orders a day.”
Building this system gave Yang invaluable insight into how third-party selling on Amazon functioned. He discovered what worked and what didn’t, and how entire brands could crop up overnight and fade into obscurity the next day. Anker thrived by borrowing infrastructure from Amazon and relying on engineering and support in China.
“Amazon provides loads of services — financial services, fulfillment. It actually makes selling a low-barrier thing,” Yang says. Although the company attempted to handle its own fulfillment in its early days, it eventually discovered it could not compete with what Amazon offered. Now, about 95 percent of Anker’s products are listed as “Fulfilled by Amazon.”
You can build an online retail business off Amazon, but making sure your products get exposure is the hard part. “The biggest challenge for Anker is not sales. It’s customer perception,” Yang says. “People think they need [Apple’s] cube charger and stock cable.” Teaching people that there is a superior product out there, and then convincing them to keep buying, is Anker’s core challenge. “Amazon reviews were really enormously helpful,” Yang says. “The Amazon reviews just come and come automatically.”
Silicon Valley is full of breathless mission statements designed to inspire and justify the power and influence of technology, like Apple’s famous “think different” slogan, and Google’s ominous and now defunct “don’t be evil” mantra. Facebook, back in 2012, celebrated its billion-user milestone with an ad comparing the social network to chairs, bridges, and even nations.
Anker has never aspired to such grand ambitions. “At Anker, we can't exactly help you unwind,” the company admits on its Amazon sellers page. Instead, Anker takes a more straightforward approach by solving the inevitable problems technology creates. “Say goodbye to first-world tech woes like oppressive low batteries and limited ports,” the page says. “Say hello to an easier, smarter life.”
Yang is trying to extend this simple philosophy to categories like headphones, speakers, phone cases, and now smart home appliances under a new brand called Eufy. Launched last September, Eufy is Anker’s avenue for selling things like Roomba clones, desk lamps, and bathroom scales.
Expanding into more product categories is a logical evolution for Anker, but it’s also a response to a looming existential threat: Yang says he foresees a future where portable chargers won’t be necessary due to advancements in both fast charging and wireless charging. “I think we all agree that the portable charger isn’t forever,” Yang says. But consumers will always need wall plugs and cables, and Anker sees its goal now as keeping pace with changing standards, like the introduction of USB-C.
In the meantime, Yang says it’s diversifying with a future expansion into audio, smart home, and automotive product lines. Anker already produces Bluetooth headphones and speakers, but it has aspirations to compete with the likes of Harman Kardon and Bose.
Key to the success of those products is moving to brick-and-mortar retailers. Terrence Wang, the company’s chief marketing officer hired from Procter & Gamble in 2015, says having a presence in Best Buy and Walmart, a process that began last year, is the next stage of Anker’s evolution. “Expanding from online to offline is critical actually,” Wang says. “We are trying to get as many people to know that they have a simple, convenient, portable, fast solution rather than just have to bring their own charger wherever they go. That’s the original brand vision.”
The company’s focus on storefront retail is a response to a second very real threat — dependence on a direct-to-consumer, online-only model. The company has found it difficult these days to launch new products on Amazon. Older products have thousands of reviews, while newer ones need to earn placement in the search rankings and collect testimonials before more cautious buyers pull the trigger. “We’re seeing a bit of a dilemma on that one,” Yang says.
The company is also struggling with its complex product line, with a dizzying number of choices that may alienate consumers who are looking for a simple choice. “We’re converging to this generation approach,” Yang says. “So we’ll try to release a generation of products every 18 to 24 months.” Choosing which products to promote at Best Buy, which to discontinue, and where to put resources for the future are all part of Anker’s growing pains.
The company’s success hinges on convincing — or “educating” — their consumers about the value of what they’re offering. Yang likes to tell a story about a moment he sees play out on repeat every single time he’s at an airport, anywhere on the planet. He sees people, smartphones in hand, rushing from outlet to outlet, looking for space with “the little Apple cube in their hands” and running out of options. “To a lot of people, the original charger and the original cable are the only means to charge their devices, in their mind,” he says. “I look at those people and I always want to go up to them and talk to them.”
Instead, Yang and the Anker team started conducting an annual consumer survey. It has only one question: how often does your smartphone run out of battery? Once every day? Once a week? Once a month? Or perhaps never? “Forty percent of people say their battery ran out at least once last week, another 40 percent say at least once last month,” Yang says. “As long as these numbers don’t go down, I think we have a lot of work to do.”
Nike has unveiled a new collection of Apple Watch bands that match with corresponding pairs of Nike sneakers. Called "Day to Night,” the collection features four different colors of sport bands that include perforated holes to air out your sweat. Despite the name, the new Nike bands don’t glow in the dark, do anything literally transformative, or are meant to be appropriate attire from morning workouts to cocktail hour — Nike says the inspiration actually comes from the various shades of the sky as it changes between dusk till dawn. I’m not sure how often an average person witnesses a pink or lavender sky, but I guess they do make for some attractive-looking Watch band colors.
The new bands will be available on June 1st for $49 a set via Nike.com or in Nike stores. Apple.com will begin carrying the new line in “early June.” Sneakers are sold separately, but they’ll also go on sale on the June 1st for $190 a pair. For now, it looks like there are no bundling discounts for purchasing the band and sneakers together.
In early April, open-source social platform Mastodon had its 15 minutes of fame. The service has been compared ad nauseam to Twitter, from which it borrows its basic structure: short messages from users, retweets (or retoots, in its parlance), chronological timelines updating in real-time, and so on. Mastodon’s layout even cops a basic version of Tweetdeck, the popular third-party Twitter software.
Creator Eugen Rochko made Mastodon as a way of improving on Twitter’s formula; the open-source platform gave users more privacy options, and improved the overall experience with expanded character counts and chronological timelines. The service launched months ago, but it didn’t really take off until Twitter rolled out an update on how it displays replies. As users grumbled over the changes, many took their complaints a step further. They left Twitter — at least momentarily — to start new accounts on Mastodon. The userbase of Mastodon’s flagship instance, Mastodon.social swelled more than 70 percent in 48 hours. Registration was locked, and those interested in the platform were encouraged to branch out to any number of other instances. (Unlike Twitter, Mastodon is spread across many sub communities, e.g. social.targaryen.house, mastodon.host, mastodon.network, and so on.)
More than a month later, the buzz over Mastodon has quieted. But though it may not be making headlines, the service continues to grow.
Mastodon.social still serves as the flagship instance for Mastodon, though registration temporarily closed as sign-up numbers swelled; it re-opened earlier this month. Rochko says he’s longer concerned about its size. “Accepting new users is not much of a problem, load / moderation wise,” he tells The Verge. “It's only when the sign-up plus activity rate is higher than I and my mods can deal with [that] it becomes problematic.”
As it stands, Mastodon.social is home to more than 59,000 users — a jump from last month, when it housed around 41,700 users.
Rochko says he closed the instance during the boom in order to spread members through the service’s federation system — a system of separate, but linked communities — instead of situating everyone on a single server. “That would defeat the purpose of decentralization,” he says. “I am not changing my stance on that.”
However, Rochko explains that with over 1,200 different servers in existence — and at least one other massive instance (pawoo.net, which supports more than 150,000 users) — he isn’t as worried about users defaulting to the flagship.
Work has been done to streamline the sign-up process. When you register on an instance now, there’s notably more handholding than there was a couple months ago. The first time you log in, the service gives you your full handle, tells you who your moderator is, and explains the basics of the service. That’s a definite plus, as logging onto the service initially felt, for newcomers, a little like wandering into oncoming traffic. The tutorial allows Rochko and instance mods to skip personally having to address questions or misconceptions about the service, he says.
“Mastodon isn't difficult, but it's different, and that has to click for people to get it,” says Rochko.
For example, new users need to easily grasp how handles work. Unlike Twitter, your handle isn’t just your chosen username. It also includes the full address of your Mastodon instance. Where I might be @Megan_Nicolett on Twitter, for example, my Mastodon handle is @Megan_Nicolett@mastodon.social. Rochko says that explaining this system to new users right away has alleviated a lot of confusion.
As the flagship instance has grown, its community focus has become diluted. While Rochko described mastodon.social initially as “predominantly queer / furry / leftist,” the 50,000-member community has become far more generalist. “It is hard to describe the average mastodon.social user because this is the ‘flagship’ instance that got all the main press attention, so lots of people from different backgrounds joined,” he says.
Scrolling through my mastodon.social local feed is like reaching into a social media grab bag: toots about personal observations, video games, politics, comics, and a mix of users speaking in French, Japanese, Spanish, and more. As one user opines on Sonic Forces, another laments the Trump presidency. Shortly after, someone toots in celebration of the release of Chelsea Manning.
In other words, mastodon.social doesn’t look so different than the rest of the internet.
With expansion, it has experienced the same growing pains as its social media contemporaries. The need for moderation and blocking has increased. “Trolls and internet go hand in hand,” Rochko says. “We strive to further improve blocking and moderation tools, and make owning your identity across the fediverse easier, whether by making the creation of new instances simpler or adding tools for migration between identities, or cryptographic approaches to verifying identities / content.”
This concept of creating standalone spaces is perhaps the key differentiating factor between Mastodon and Twitter.
Since its moment in the spotlight. Mastodon has ballooned into an even wider web of (mostly connected) communities. According to Mastodon’s site, it currently serves more than 623,000 users spread across nearly 1,600 instances. If there’s a specific sort of community you’re seeking — from burners, cuties, motorsports, sci-fi, and “wang” lovers — you’re likely to find it on the list of Mastodon instances.
The variety makes defining “Mastodon culture”  nearly impossible; it depends on what instance you call home, and which instances yours federates with. Mastodon explains the federated timeline as a stream that “shows public posts from everyone who people on [your instance] follow.” In other words, it’s not exactly the Twitter replacement we all hailed it as. It’s more like a series of sophisticated, quick-fire message boards.
There are a handful of Mastodon instances I’ve frequented since the initial mass migration; all of the moderators I spoke with for these instances noted an influx of users around early-to-mid April. The largest of my personal instances is Mastodon.xyz with more than 9,000 users (for reference, that’s roughly a sixth the size of the flagship instance). The smallest I have a membership to is the Memetastic space, with just over 3,000 members.
Similar to Mastodon.social, Mastodon.xyz offers a general space for users to hang out. When I contacted the server’s host, a French 17-year-old student who goes by @TheKinrar, they described it as a multi-culture community light on moderation. “I only silence or suspend [people using hate speech] or things like that,” they said. @TheKinrar spends several hours a day on the instance. “I'm really very happy with what happened here. I'm involved in a community I like, and there are a lot of people out there thanking me for all I've done ... this is just really great.”
The Memetastic space is currently hosted by @meme, a 15-year-old located near London. @meme says he spent a lot of time on the flagship instance before deciding to start his own. “My Twitter account (@LOLGuy213) had turned into just me ranting about politics, so Mastodon was a perfect place to take a break from Twitter,” @meme says. He explains that Mastodon.social requests that people use built-in Content Warnings when talking about sensitive topics like politics, so people who don't want to read them don't have to.
@meme says The Memetastic instance hasn’t needed much moderation, as most members respect the terms of service laid out in the instance’s informational tab.
When I asked Mastodon hosts if they felt the service could, in fact, serve as the Twitter replacement it was hailed as, their answers varied. Some agreed that it was a good alternative to Twitter. Others likened it to different platforms altogether, like mobile community network Amino Apps, or — perhaps more appropriately — Reddit.
The longer I spent on Mastodon, the more that comparison feels apt. With access to large local timelines, and not just personally curated feeds, there’s a variety of communities and spaces that Twitter, for all of its scale, rarely achieves. At the same tine, the lack of scale still hinders Mastodon. A social media service is only useful if it has members.
Rochko himself says he’s mostly left Twitter behind at this point. “Mastodon has replaced Twitter for me,” Rochko says. “I only rarely check it anymore, and only because not all people I care about have migrated yet.”
At Google I/O this past week, I got my first taste of the next version of Android and I enjoyed almost everything about it. Android has gotten to the stage where improvements come in only incremental steps, and Google is mostly making the right ones with its annual updates. But I have an underlying worry about where this is all going: as Android grows more proactive and assistive, I fear it might end up alienating its more technically inclined users.
So here’s a radical thought: maybe there’s now room for more than one canonical variant of Android. I can already hear the chorus of disagreement, chanting the word "fragmentation" with cautionary zeal, but Google is already working on a modified version with Android Go, its extra lean serving for lower-spec devices. What I have in mind is a similarly stripped-down option intended for pro users: an Android Pro.
Google’s vision of the future of Android — and the future of mobile and personal technology more broadly — is defined by automation. Google Assistant is the user-facing aspect of an artificial intelligence juggernaut that promises to transform how we use our devices and, in many ways, make us more dependent on them.
As Android has evolved, it has consistently moved closer to Apple’s deliberately simplified approach to mobile software. The latest Android O streamlines the settings menu by presenting only the most-used options and tucking the rest away into expandable "advanced" menus. With every version of the core OS and app updates, I see more hand holding and bigger training wheels from Google.
As enthusiastic a Google Photos user as I am, I don’t like being nagged to back up my photos every time I open the app, and I don’t think I’ll much enjoy receiving constant reminders about Google photo books when they become available. There used to be a time when Google Maps was just a mapping application, but now it takes a couple of extra seconds to load while Google furnishes it with extra search options and local business information (mostly the locations of the nearest pizzerias). Maps has also developed an unfortunate habit of pumping notifications my way, whether it’s for road traffic that isn’t relevant to me or urging me to contribute my photos of known landmarks.
It is while setting up a new Android phone, as I uncheck every superfluous notification option on Maps, Android Pay, Docs, Drive, Photos, and YouTube that I come to think, this is Windows behavior. My standard operating procedure with any new Windows PC setup is to deselect all the options that Microsoft ticks for me — and now Android is bulking out to match that (admittedly minor) annoyance.
Speaking with Android chief Hiroshi Lockheimer during Google I/O, I was told that the teams responsible for all of these apps make their decisions based on a lot of user research and (anonymized, he was quick to point out) data. One of Android’s outstanding challenges is informing people of everything the system can do, and the prompts for action from Google’s apps are helpful pointers for neophytes. In essence, Google’s lowest common denominator is gradually shifting lower, as the company looks to scoop up every last feature phone holdout while at the same time matching the accessibility of Apple’s iOS.
There’s always a balance to be struck when trying to keep experienced users moving at their fastest without leaving new ones behind. The trouble for me is that Google’s assistive efforts aren’t all optional. The suggested email replies of Google Inbox, for example, were promoted to the main Gmail app in Android during I/O — and, much like my colleague Adi Robertson, I find them off-putting in the way they impersonate me. Aside from the inappropriateness of offering canned responses when someone might be reading an intensely personal message, these responses just take up screen space.
If cars can have a sport mode that stiffens the suspension, heightens throttle response, and disables driving assists for a purer and faster experience, why not phones, too? I want something like Android Go — barebones, simplified, streamlined to run as fast as possible — but with all the latest and greatest capabilities that Android can support. All the torque, none of the training wheels.
My idea for an Android Pro wouldn’t meaningfully contribute to Android’s long-unresolved issue of software fragmentation because the thing I envision is taking features away, not adding more. I can live without Google Assistant and without Uber and Lyft being directly integrated into Maps. Just give me the familiar single-purpose, siloed-off apps, and let me worry about connecting the dots between them. That’s the way Android grew to its present popularity, and there are many of us already accustomed to highly effective workflows built atop its simple, un-enhanced structure.
An Android Pro could also serve as a useful branding tool, giving Android OEMs an excuse not to mess around with creating their own skins and user assists, shipping Google’s prepared code as it is, which could in turn accelerate updates and reinforce the idea of this being an OS for professionals.
Apple might not have more than one version of iOS, but then Apple isn’t trying to address the full range of smartphone users. Google, on the contrary, wants to put an Android device in everyone’s hands, and that’s what has pushed it to create Android Go for the affordable segment of the market. Now how about an Android Pro for the enthusiast and professional groups that gave Android its first taste of success?
It’s getting close to the time of year when Samsung usually introduces a rugged version of its latest Galaxy S smartphone. And a new leak from the Wireless Power Consortium reveals a lot about what the S8 Active is going to look like.
It’s only a single photo, but the image lets us know three key things about the S8 Active. First, the display: the S8 Active won’t have curved edges, like the regular S8.
The big question this year was what Samsung planned to do about the screen, since curved glass may be more susceptible to cracking, and Samsung seems to have decided the best option was to get rid of it altogether. Instead, the S8 Active has a flattened out look but retains the S8’s rounded corners, making the front of the phone look a lot like LG’s G6.
Samsung seems to have made the bezels a little bit larger on the S8 Active, particularly on the sides. But overall, the front of the phone still seems to get fairly close to the nearly all-screen look of actual S8.
The second thing this photo shows is that Samsung isn’t putting buttons back on the front of the phone. That’s not necessarily a huge surprise, but it’ll make the device a bit harder to handle when wet, since owners will be relying on the touchscreen.
And finally, this photo reveals a bit of what Samsung is doing to make the phone rugged. All four of its corners bump out, suggesting they’ve been reinforced to absorb shock should the phone get dropped; it looks a lot like what Samsung has done in the past. We still don’t know exactly how bulky the Active model will look, but recent models have avoided feeling chunky — they’re just not noticeably thin like the main model.
One other thing we don’t know: if Samsung will put camo on the back of this thing.
Samsung’s Active phones usually include bigger batteries, shatter-resistant screens, and dust- and water-proofing. They’re also usually exclusive to AT&T and announced in June, so we should hear more soon.
Ringly is launching a new version of its smart bracelet with an updated look, all the same features, and a lower price.
The new model is called the Ringly Go, and its biggest difference is its looks. The new model puts a large stone in the middle of a leather strap, instead of a large gem in the middle of a metal bracelet like most of the original models. It’s a much more subdued look, and I think I like it more than the older design.
Like the first Ringly bracelet, the Ringly Go can be used as a fitness tracker and a notification device. It counts daily steps, distance traveled, and calories burned. And it can vibrate and light up to alert wearers to different types of notifications on their phone, like calls, reminders, and messages from specific people.
Ringly is also estimating a day longer battery life on this model: two to three days, instead of one to two.
The other big feature differentiator is the price. This one will sell for $125, while the original bracelet sells for $165. Given that they do all the same things, it’s really just a style choice at this point.
Ringly is also going to be selling this model in some Target stores in the US, which should give the Go much more exposure and put it up against more familiar fitness trackers.
Owners of a Hopper DVR and an Amazon Echo can now change the channel or find a specific programming using just their voice. Dish has announced that starting today, customers can use Alexa to control their Hopper DVR or Wally satellite without ever touching the remote.
Dish first announced this capability back in January during CES, and the feature will be available for every generation of the Hopper DVR. According to Dish, the Alexa search feature for TV shows work across the provider’s content catalog (live or recorded) in addition to on-demand titles. That means it’ll know to look to Netflix if you ask Alexa to play the new season of Master of None, or go through your live and recorded library when you want to watch an episode of The Walking Dead.
To set up the functionality, users can set up the Dish TV skill in their Alexa app, where they’ll get walked through the process of pairing the devices together.
Google is facing a lawsuit in San Francisco Superior Court alleging that the company has fostered a culture of secrecy and fear. Leaks to the media are forbidden, and employees are encouraged to monitor their colleagues for leaks, according to the suit, which was filed in December by an anonymous ex-employee who claims they were unjustly fired.
We’re now seeing some of the first evidence to support those allegations. Earlier this month, attorneys for the plaintiffs entered an email as an exhibit in the case. The May 2016 document — one that has been previously quoted from in the lawsuit but not published in full — describes the result of an internal hunt for a leaker, mentioning a dedicated “stopleaks” internal email address, presumably directing to a team that the lawsuit claims is tasked with such investigations.
The story behind the all-staff email starts with an incident from last year. In April, Recode published internal, employee-generated memes roasting Nest CEO Tony Fadell for a decision to shut down products from Revolv, a company acquired by Nest. In response to the criticism, Fadell gave a talk at the company’s weekly TGIF meeting and claimed Nest’s culture, another subject of criticism, was “improving.” The transcript from the talk was then also published by Recode.
The internal email was sent a few weeks later, on May 6th, with the subject line “the recent leaks.” Written by Brian Katz, a former State Department special agent who now runs “investigations” at Google, it begins with a stern warning: “INTERNAL ONLY. REALLY.”
Katz introduces himself as the head of the “stop leaks” team, a group of employees that the lawsuit claims is tasked with tracing the source of information that makes its way to the public. Katz writes that the company identified and fired the leaker for “their intentional disregard of confidentiality.” As a result of the leaks, Google stopped publishing transcripts of its TGIF talks, opting for a live stream instead. (The plaintiff who brought the suit says he was falsely accused by Katz of being the source of the leaks.)
“We’ve all worked hard to create an environment where we can share information openly,” Katz writes. “Our culture relies on our ability to trust each other — we share a lot of confidential information, but we also commit to keeping it inside the company. We don’t want that to change.” He went on to encourage employees to share concerns with managers or through the human resources department, rather than airing them publicly. The Information noted in a story last year that, around the same time, Katz allegedly told employees in a webcast “to look to their left and look to their right,” saying one of those people may be leaking information.
Katz ended by writing that the conversation had turned “less than civil” inside Google, and points to conversations on internal Google tools like Memegen as problems. “Memegen, Misc, Internal G+, and our many discussion groups are a big part of our culture — they keep us honest — but like any conversation amongst colleagues, we should keep it respectful.”
The lawsuit alleges that Google’s leaks policy covers essentially all company information and prohibits reasonable discussion about company activities. The stop leaks team is a primary object of criticism in the suit, which alleges that the team encourages employees to report any suspicious activity from their colleagues and streamlined the leak-reporting process with a dedicated URL. The email references a dedicated email address as well: “stopleaks@”. Google declined to elaborate on how the stop leaks team works. An attempt at emailing the group resulted in a bounce.
A related case was also recently brought to the National Labor Relations Board.
“We're very committed to an open internal culture, which means we frequently share with employees details of product launches and confidential business information,” a Google spokesperson told The Verge in a statement. “Transparency is a huge part of our culture. Our employee confidentiality requirements are designed to protect proprietary business information, while not preventing employees from disclosing information about terms and conditions of employment or workplace concerns."
The full text of the email is copied below.
Subject: The recent leaks
From: Brian Katz
To: Googlers
INTERNAL ONLY. REALLY.
Hi there. I’m Brian. I lead the Investigations team, which includes stopleaks@.
At TGIF a few weeks back we promised an update on our investigation into some recent leaks, and here it is: We identified the people who leaked the TGIF transcript and memes. Because of their intentional disregard of confidentiality, they’ve been fired.
We’ve all worked hard to create an environment where we can share information openly. Our culture relies on our ability to trust each other—we share a lot of confidential information, but we also commit to keeping it inside the company. We don’t want that to change.
That said, we’ll be making some changes to TGIF to help keep the information shared internal-only, starting by no longer posting the written transcript to go/tgif. Instead, you’ll be able to watch a live stream, and for those who can’t tune in live, we’ll be offering the full video with Q&A.
We’ll continue to share information internally because the vast majority of Googlers and Characters respect our culture and don’t leak—thank you for that. That commitment toward a common vision and goal makes this a special place to work.
Please remember: whether malicious or unintentional, leaks damage our culture. Be aware of the company information you share and with whom you share it. If you’re considering sharing confidential information to a reporter—or to anyone externally—for the love of all that’s Googley, please reconsider! Not only could it cost you your job, but it also betrays the values that makes us a community. If you have concerns or disagreements, share them constructively through your manager, HRBP or go/saysomething.
Which brings me to my final point: some of the recent discourse on Memegen and elsewhere within the company has been, shall we say, less than civil. Memegen, Misc, Internal G+ and our many discussion groups are a big part of our culture—they keep us honest—but like any conversation amongst colleagues, we should keep it respectful.
Brian Katz
Director, Protective Services, Investigations & Intelligence
HP is announcing a handful of laptop upgrades today, but two stand out for going head to head with Microsoft’s Surface line. The first is an upgrade of HP’s Spectre x2, making it into a more capable Surface Pro competitor. And the second is a slimmed down Envy 13 that makes the laptop look like it could be a better MacBook Air alternative than the Surface Laptop.
The Spectre x2 — a tablet with a detachable keyboard case — was pretty well received when it was introduced two years ago, but it had one big drawback: it could only be configured with Intel’s Core m processors. That made the Spectre x2 a far less powerful device than the Surface Pro, or really just a typical laptop, and HP says it heard that customers wanted more. So it’s updated the machine this year to use Core i processors — real ones, not the Core m-style processors that Intel decided to rename Core i last year.
The upside of this is that the Spectre x2 should be capable of doing more than just casual web browsing. The downside is that it might run a bit hotter, it now includes a fan (which will make it louder), and it’s going to have shorter battery life. HP is estimating just eight hours this year, down from 10 hours on the original model. The tablet has also gotten a little bit thinner, and HP has cut down its bezels so it looks better overall.
HP is also updating a few other specs. The tablet still has a 12-inch display, but now it has a 3000 x 2000 resolution, up from 1920 x 1280 on the original. This model comes with a 360GB SSD, instead of a 128GB SSD. And the tablet’s two USB ports have been switched to USB-C.
While there’s no one game-changing upgrade here, these all add up to put the Spectre x2 into a much more premium space, where it’ll have an easier time going head to head with the Surface Pro. It’ll go on sale next month with a starting price of $999.99.
The other big release from HP today is a new Envy 13 laptop. It’s a metal laptop that’s essentially HP’s answer to the MacBook Air. This year, its bezels have been narrowed down quite a bit so that the whole laptop is about 0.8 inches narrower and 0.4 inches shorter. At it actually looks a bit like Dell’s XPS 13, which makes sense since it’s competing in the same space.
HP had already refreshed the Envy 13 with Kaby Lake processors, so the rest of the specs are staying pretty much the same here. It has a 13.3-inch 1080p display, a 128GB SSD (the old model started at 256GB), 8GB of RAM, and an estimated 14 hours of battery life. The new model also ditches HDMI to add an extra USB-C port, so there are now two USB-C ports and two traditional USB 3 ports.
The laptop looks nice and feels sturdy. And while it isn’t as immediately catchy as the Surface Laptop, it feels like HP has a solid answer to Microsoft’s latest challenger. The Envy 13 starts at $1,049.99 and includes full Windows 10.
Those are the two big changes to HP’s lineup today, but it actually has two other laptops that it’s updating as well. The Envy 17 is now a little bit thinner and comes with discrete graphics, Nvidia’s GeForce 940MX, by default. And the Envy x360 15 is getting updated with slimmer bezels, making the whole machine a little bit smaller.
Correction May 22nd, 2:56PM ET: This article initially referred incorrectly to the Spectre x2 as the Elite x2 and the Envy 13 as the Elite 13 in several locations. We regret the errors.
Correction May 24th, 1:35PM ET: The Spectre x2 does have a fan, unlike what an HP representative initially told us, and is thinner than its predecessor, not thicker, as the company’s press material initially indicated.
The United Nations’ refugee agency has partnered with Google to launch a new website aimed at answering the five most common questions about the Syrian refugee crisis. The “Searching for Syria” site launched on Monday and will be featured on the Google home page “in selected countries,” according to a press release from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
Searching for Syria combines data from the UNHCR and Google to answer five questions: “what was Syria like before the war?”; “what is happening in Syria?”; “who is a refugee?”; “where are Syrian refugees going?”; and “how can I help Syrian refugees?” The site includes stories of people who have been displaced by the six-year war, alongside statistics that detail the scope of its devastation.
It also features 360-degree videos of ancient sites that have been damaged or destroyed during the conflict, as well as Google Earth imagery taken before and after the war. A link to donate to the UNHCR is included at the very bottom of the page, as well as a link to the organization’s #WithRefugees petition, which calls for guaranteed education for refugee children and adequate homes for displaced families.
“Searching for Syria aims to dispel myths and misconceptions about Syria and refugees and provide an entirely fresh look at the biggest humanitarian tragedy of today,” Filippo Grandi, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, said in a statement Monday. “This is a fantastic project with Google that allows us to pinpoint and answer the five key questions about Syrian refugees and displaced that audiences most want to know and help us rally much needed support and funding for our humanitarian effort.”
The site is currently available in English, French, German and Spanish, with an Arabic version to launch soon.
While cheaper and increasingly popular with riders, UberPool continues to be stressful service for everyone involved. Riders are lured in by dirt-cheap prices, only to become aggravated by frequent detours to pick up new passengers. Drivers complain that UberPool often means more work without necessarily more pay. And Uber’s engineers have been wrestling with how to make the service that’s core to the company’s mission a more seamless and frictionless experience.
As such, Uber’s city team in New York City have been piloting some minor changes that they say accomplish this. In the congested borough of Manhattan, a turn off one of the main north-south avenues down a numbered street can mean getting trapped in hellacious traffic. As such, riders are being prompted to walk to the closest corner or intersection for more convenient pickups, rather than have drivers deviate from their north-south route.
The same goes for drop-offs, where riders are being let out at a proximate corner rather than the exact address of their destination. Uber calls it “dynamic drop-offs,” but the result is pretty plain. If you want those cheaper fares, you’re going to have to be cool with a lot more walking. Uber began testing this feature last year, and has since rolled it out in wider use.
Uber is also taking into account things like traffic signals and bus lanes, so drivers don’t have to change lanes or zigzag across the street to pickup or drop-off riders. Based on feedback from drivers, Uber determined that the corner past the light on the right-hand side, for example, was a more stress-free pickup location.
Another change is an emphasis on efficiency over speed. That means recalculating drop-off spots during the trip and reducing the number of turns drivers make per mile by 20 percent, said Ronak Trivedi, product manager at Uber. Overall, Uber’s engineers were building a system that factored in human preferences over algorithmic data. That means listening to drivers about their preferences, and then factoring that feedback into UberPool’s core technology. “Previously, we were all about speed,” he told The Verge. “But then we started to acknowledge that computer optimization wasn’t the best experience for riders and drivers.”
To date, these changes have only come in New York City — where 25 percent of all trips are made through UberPool. Trivedi isn’t even sure how scaleable they are to other cities. His team is still trying to refine the data to determine what would work in other markets. Uber recently introduced dynamic pickups and drop-offs (more walking) in San Francisco and Washington, DC. And the city teams are being given flexibility to decide what works for them, and what doesn’t.
Still, many see the ride-hailing giant’s efforts to mimic a public bus route with UberPool as an attempt to kill off mass transit. But Uber argues that its goal is to compliment, not kill, public transportation by solving the so-called “first-mile/last-mile challenge,” a phrase used to describe the difficulty in getting people between transit hubs and their homes. There’s evidence that more people are using services like Uber and Lyft in this manner.
But in New York, as subways become more crowded and more prone to breaking down, and buses get slower, will people abandon transit for carpooling? And how will that effect future funding decisions? It’s a huge, unanswered question, and one that probably isn’t too concerning to the engineers at Uber.

The great white whale of backpacks is the one pack that fits any occasion. Buy a bag that's perfect for the daily commute and it probably won't fit all your camera gear. Buy a backpack big enough for a weekend getaway and it'll look like a deflated corpse of canvas on your way to the office. That's where the promise of modularity comes in.

The Boundary Prima System is a backpack built around the idea of adaptability. It's centered around a 25 liter Prima Pack that expands to 30 liters; the Verge (no affiliation) Case camera bag that can be removed, expanded to 10 liters, and carried separately; and a removable Fieldspace sleeve for a slim modern laptop, tablet, or documents, and all your pens, dongles, and cables. The system is designed to overcome any boundary (get it!) by adapting to work, travel, and photography.
I've been testing Boundary for a few weeks under a variety of scenarios. I used it as my carry-on bag during a recent transatlantic flight to New York City. After checking in, Boundary became my daily subway commuter bag to and from the office. Once home, Boundary became my weekender bag, allowing me to tote a weekend's worth of gear to the beach before converting Boundary into a camera bag for a suprisingly comfortable 10 mile (about 16 km) hike.
Modular design is often a great idea that's let down by execution. I can't say that about the Boundary system. The decision to make both the camera bag and laptop sleeve removable creates a truly adaptable bag. In my testing I found myself successfully using the Verge Case as both an internal and external storage vehicle for my chunky DSLR camera, lenses, and accessories. (Bonus: The bag can be placed on the ground on its side without tipping over, allowing unfettered access to your cameras and lenses). I also find the Fieldspace sleeve to be an extraordinary organizer that gives my MacBook and dongles a permanent home that I move between the Boundary pack and other smaller bags (not made by Boundary) depending upon the occasion. I also really like the Mojave tan color and black accents of my prototype pack — it has a certain Indiana Jones chic to it that I enjoy.
Taking a rest during a 10-mile hike while testing the Boundary backpack
A post shared by Trixxy (@trixxy) on May 22, 2017 at 1:12am PDT
Even when full of electronics I found the bag to be comfortable to wear even for long (10 mile) hikes through the rolling Dutch dunes. Oh, and the lavish use of seven smartly designed magnetic latches warms my heart. Any backpack company that's still using traditional two-handed flesh-pinching latches in 2017 should be ashamed of themselves.
There's nothing bad per se, but I always have a few gripes:
If you're looking for a modular, do-it-all 25 liter backpack that can expand to 30 liters (plus another 10 liters if you remove and carry the Verge Case camera bag separately) then I can recommend Boundary without exception for the Kickstarter price of $189. I can't say the same when the price hits the suggested retail price of $279.99. Not when Peak Design's 30 liter backpack lists for $289.95 (or $259.95 for the 20 liter version). Boundary is a very good $200 bag that I think many will be happy with for a very long time — it's just not Peak Design good.
Apple has begun charging small fees for three-month trials of Apple Music in some countries, according to AppleInsider. Users in Australia, Spain, and Switzerland must now pay 99 cents to trial the streaming service for three months. Apple Music trials were previously free in each country, as they are in the US and other countries.
It is not clear why Apple began charging for trials in these countries, or whether the company plans to do so in other countries. Apple initially planned to not pay royalties to artists during the three-month trials, but the company reversed course after facing a chorus of criticism from Taylor Swift and other musicians. AppleInsider speculates that the company may now be trying to recover some of those costs with paid trial periods.
In an email statement to The Verge, Apple said: "Pricing and promotions for Apple Music vary from country to country.”

Update, 5:05AM ET:  This article has been updated to include a statement from Apple.
Microsoft is widely expected to launch a new Surface Pro device tomorrow, and the company’s Surface chief has taken to Instagram today to post what appears to be a teaser. Panos Panay simply posted an image of four Surface keyboards, with the caption that there are “30 hours to go” until Microsoft’s Surface event in Shanghai. The Surface keyboards appear to be new Type Cover colors in alcantara, the same fabric that’s used on Microsoft’s new Surface Laptop.
Microsoft’s teaser comes just days after a Surface Pro leak revealed the new device looks very similar to the existing Surface Pro 4 model. Evleaks posted marketing material of what is claimed to be just a “Surface Pro” without any numbering. The new tablet / laptop hybrid doesn’t appear to include a USB-C port, just like the Surface Laptop.
Microsoft’s Surface event will take place in Shanghai tomorrow morning, and the company has promised “updates and more information” over at its news site for exact timing and potential live streaming details.
Mark Fields is out as Ford CEO and Jim Hackett is in. Ford just made the news official after it was first reported last night by The New York Times. Hacket, 62, who ran Steelcase furniture for 20 years before joining Ford, was most recently in charge of the company's autonomous vehicle subsidiary known as Ford Smart Mobility. Fields was CEO for three years — a period that saw Ford stock drop 40 percent.
“Reporting to Executive Chairman Bill Ford, Hackett will lead Ford’s worldwide operations and 202,000 employees globally. He succeeds Mark Fields, 56, who has elected to retire from Ford after a successful 28-year career with the company,” said the company in a press release. Hackett is charged with three priorities: sharpen operational execution especially in underperforming lines of business; modernizing Ford’s business by leveraging big data, AI, advanced robotics, and 3D printing; and transforming the company’s culture to ensure it keeps up with the changing times.
Smart Mobility LLC is located in Palo Alto, a long way from Ford’s headquarters in Dearborn, Michigan. "You want it separate but connected, said Mark Fields in a Verge interview last year. "The reason we wanted to do it separate is because, you have to realize that we needed to give them the flexibility and the operating structure to be able to be competitive with other technology and mobility services companies that move really fast. We didn’t want to overlay them with the Ford bureaucracy."
Ford Smart Mobility was formed in 2016 as an effort to accelerate the company’s metamorphosis into an auto and mobility company. Its aim was to aggressively pursue emerging opportunities and “be a leader in connectivity, mobility, autonomous vehicles, the customer experience and data and analytics,” according to Ford. Hackett’s promotion is a clear sign that Ford thinks the transformation isn’t happening quickly enough. Ford’s car sales are down 25 percent this year and Tesla recently overtook both Ford and GM in terms of market capitalization.
Update May 22nd, 8:34 AM: Story updated with details from Ford’s official announcement.
In May, journalist Matthew Caruana Galizia published a series of posts to Facebook, alleging that that Malta’s Prime Minister, Joseph Muscat, had engaged in corrupt practices. Days later, Galizia found himself locked out of his account, while several of the posts were deleted.
Galizia is part of the team that broke the Panama Papers story last year, and his reporting comes weeks before the country is scheduled to hold an election in June. He noted that he didn’t see the story covered much in traditional papers, so he turned to Facebook to reach a wider audience. “The response was incredible. I never expected anything like it.”
Following the publication of the posts, Prime Minister Muscat threatened to sue the journalist for libel, and on May 16th, Galizia was locked out of his account, according to The Guardian, although it’s not immediately clear if the government had a hand in the lockout.
In a statement, a spokesperson for Facebook told The Verge that it’s looking into the incident. “We are investigating these posts and have spoken with Mr. Caruana Galizia so that he can publish what he needs to, without including unnecessary private details that could present safety risks. If we find that we have made errors, we will correct them.”
The incident raised concerns about how the social media company moderates content online, and Galizia told The Guardian that the incident “was enlightening because I realised how crippling and punitive this block is for a journalist.”

Up until this year, Tesla provided a handy perk for owners: they could charge their vehicles up at any of the company’s Supercharger stations for free. Last year, Tesla announced that it would phase the program out in favor of a modest pricing scheme for owners after January 1st. On Friday, Tesla said that new users still have a way to get free charging: get another driver to give you a referral code.
Starting on Friday, “existing owners can give free, unlimited Supercharging to up to five friends by sharing their referral code,” according to a Tesla spokesperson. Current owners who decide to purchase a new vehicle will continue to receive free Supercharging as well.
Previously, drivers had to have purchased a car by January 1st and taken delivery of the vehicle by April 1st in order to qualify for the free charging. The company extended that deadline slightly in January, but for new owners that missed the cutoff and purchased a car before the introduction of the referral program, Tesla will extend free charging for them, as though they received a referral from another driver. Existing drivers who already own a Tesla will continue to receive free charging, even if they purchase a new.
Moving forward, drivers without a referral code be able to use 400 kWh of power for free per year, and will pay $.40 for each minute spent at one of the stations after charging is complete. The company made the shift after drivers began to complain that the stations were becoming increasingly congested, with drivers parking their vehicles at them for hours at a time. As the company works to ramp up production this year, it’s also planning to expand its infrastructure of charging stations around the country.
Earlier today, The Guardian published a series of reports about Facebook’s internal rules on moderating graphic content, providing new insight into how the company determines what its users can post. The series paints a picture of a social media network that is drowning in content, using rules that are at times seemingly contradictory.
The Guardian’s series, Facebook Files, reveal some of the site’s internal manuals concerning credible threats of violence, non-sexual child abuse, graphic violence, and cruelty to animals. The newspaper explains that it has reviewed more than 100 internal “training manuals, spreadsheets and flowcharts,” that help guide the site’s moderators when content is reported.
Facebook’s documents reveal a line that the company is trying to navigate: provide a platform for free speech while also avoiding real-world harm. The site utilizes some automated systems to proactively eliminate content, such as child sexual abuse or terrorism, but what’s left falls to teams of moderators. In the Credible Violence documents, the manual notes that “people commonly express distain or disagreement by threatening or calling for violence in generally facetious and unserious ways.” It also provides examples of where some statements are acceptable to keep on the site (“I’m going to kill you John!”) and what should be removed (“I’m going to kill you John, I have the perfect knife to do it!”)
The guidelines ask moderators to determine the difference between someone blowing off steam, and a serious threat, pointing to instances where posts detailing specific threats, timing, and methods are given priority over more general ones. The site also outlines specific groups of vulnerable individuals (such as heads of state or specific police officers) and groups (homeless or Zionists), which gets automatically deleted or escalated.
There are significant gray areas, however. The site’s guidelines specifically state that “photos and videos documenting animal abuse,” is permitted in order to raise awareness. While the site does “not action” images of child abuse, videos of said abuse is marked as disturbing. Users attempting to harm themselves is also allowed, because it “doesn’t want to censor or punish people in distress who are attempting suicide.”
According to The Guardian, moderators review millions of reports of suspected content, and because of the amount, “moderators often feel overwhelmed by the number of posts they have to review – and they make mistakes, particularly in the complicated area of permissible sexual content.” Facebook’s head of global policy management, Monika Bickert, ‎told The Guardian that the company’s diverse audience means that there’s wide range of what’s considered acceptable behavior, and that some comments might violate Facebook’s policies in some contexts, but not others.
In a statement provided to The Verge, Bickert noted that user safety is of upmost importance:
Keeping people on Facebook safe is the most important thing we do. Mark Zuckerberg recently announced that over the next year, we'll be adding 3,000 people to our community operations team around the world — on top of the 4,500 we have today — to review the millions of reports we get every week, and improve the process for doing it quickly. In addition to investing in more people, we're also building better tools to keep our community safe. We’re going to make it simpler to report problems to us, faster for our reviewers to determine which posts violate our standards and easier for them to contact law enforcement if someone needs help.
In recent months, high-profile incidents, such as the removal of an image from the Vietnam War, and a killing broadcast on Facebook Live, prompted Facebook to adjust policies or to hire an additional moderators to screen content. Such incidents have highlighted the ease of which such content can be posted and shared with users, and that the company’s responses have been lacking. Earlier this month, Facebook reported that it has just shy of two billion users, which means that it will need to continually scale up its protections for its users.

My day starts at 7AM. I get up, brush my teeth, throw on tinted SPF moisturizer, and leave my Queens, New York apartment by, ideally, 7:30. My usual first stop is the Starbucks next to my subway station, which inevitably adds at least 15 minutes to my commute because regardless of what I order, living in New York means dealing with millions of people at all times. It’s the best.
Over the past couple weeks, however, I’ve changed my morning game. At the behest of my dad, I started using the Starbucks app to order ahead. Now, as I’m walking out the door, I put in an order for a turkey bacon egg white sandwich and a grande black iced tea lemonade with no sugar and light ice. The app remembers my order, too. By the time I get to the coffee shop, which is about 10 minutes from my place, my drink and sandwich are waiting on the counter for me. I walk in, grab them, and walk out literally three seconds later. This means no more dealing with lines of 15 people or interacting with anyone before 8AM.
The high I get from bypassing waiting people is fantastic. I’m always a little smug when I one-up waiting customers by grabbing my order from seemingly out of nowhere. I’m a mobile ordering convert, although I do have some trepidation whenever I do it.
Starbucks rolled mobile ordering out nationwide in 2015. Other fast food chains, like McDonald’s, Dunkin’ Donuts, and even TGI Fridays are either testing or already implementing the feature. Apparently people loved Starbucks’ mobile ordering so much that in-person customers were actually repelled by the store when they saw tons of people waiting at the counter. They left thinking the wait would be too long. So far, I haven’t run into major wait issues, but I’m also constantly surprised at how the baristas keep up with both incoming online and in-person orders.
This is my shout out to baristas. I want them to know I feel slightly guilty avoiding them in my quest to optimize my weekday morning routine. Am I a bad person for using mobile ordering? Although I truly love it, I always feel slightly bad when I take advantage of it. It almost feels unfair to other customers. I also like humans and want them to have jobs. It’s just, man, getting to work on time is important, as is an extra 15 minutes of sleep.
A lot of New York City residents pride themselves on their ability to avoid human interaction. Entire ad campaigns prey on this inclination. Look at these two Seamless ads from the subway:
Or revisit this Sex and The City scene in which Miranda meets the real woman on the other end of her Chinese takeout order. Sure, takeout ordering in the early 2000s still involved talking on the phone, but it cut back on human interaction. What’s particularly ironic about this clip is Miranda feels like the butt of a joke when her takeout woman knows her order by heart. This is arguably one of the best features of mobile ordering.
Still, I feel the same way ordering ahead as I do about self-checkout at grocery stores. I’m happy to not rely on other humans to progress my day, but also guilty for going around them. It really doesn’t have to do with humans sucking. It’s more about making the most of my time. Everything is about me.
I haven’t figured out how to reconcile my guilt. I’m definitely not going to stop using the Starbucks app, so I think the thing to do is visit local coffee shops on weekends. (My guilt is also over supporting a mega-corporation instead of my local spot.) When I have the time, I pay a little more and go to my locally owned cafe for an iced matcha latte. I’m starting to view mobile ordering as a necessary evil to achieve a less stressful day in which I’m actually on time to work. When I can, though, I’m all here to support the world’s humans by waiting in line, chatting with baristas, and actually accepting the rhythm of New York City, which is always a little infuriating and never as fast as I want.
Marc Andreessen’s pithy observation that "software is eating the world" has been popular (and true) for more than half a decade now, but I’ve come to find it only describes the development of the tech industry partially. Even as apps like WhatsApp, Snapchat, and Uber turn startups into multibillion-dollar ventures, there’s still a hardware component underlying all of them. As the battle for future mobile users shifts to the realm of personal assistants and machine-learning automation, there’s still a physical object that all of that software runs on.
As a technology reviewer, I’ve always cared more about the physical device. How big are the bezels around the screen? Is the USB port at the bottom smooth and polished or does it cut into my palm? And does the thing have a headphone jack? Looking at the way tech fans have responded to recent news, I’m inclined to think that I’m among the majority on this issue. Software is absolutely of paramount importance, and in most cases it’s the cause for why we fall in love with this or that gadget, but ultimately it’s the hardware that we love.
The ghost incites feelings that we then associate with the shell.
Five years ago, Microsoft was the architect of the world’s most popular and most profitable operating system and office software, but it was loved only by tribalist fanboys. Its Xbox, on the other hand, had more widespread appreciation, though it wasn’t until Microsoft turned into a proper hardware manufacturer — producing the Surface Pro, Surface Book, Surface Studio, and most recently the Surface Laptop — that it became a universal darling. Microsoft is now one of the most exciting companies in tech, in part because it’s morphed into an underdog, but also because it’s pushing industrial design boundaries with fresh and unique new hardware.
Samsung has undergone a similar transformation. It used to be the cheap Apple copycat, but then it recognized the value of appealing, high-quality design in attracting long-term user loyalty, and now it too is among the world’s favorite tech companies. There are legitimate, unabashed Samsung fans now.
Sony and HTC are also helpful examples, insofar as neither has been a leader among phone makers for years, but both still command a passionate following based on their previous products. There’s no denying that HTC once led the world when it came to refined smartphone design, and Sony’s history as a hardware innovator hardly needs recounting. It’s because they gave their fans a physical thing to channel their love and affection into that both of these brands still enjoy such lasting loyalty today.
Turn to pure software companies, on the other hand, and you’ll see a distinctly different picture. Facebook is used daily by something close to 1.3 billion people and recently crossed the 2-billion-user mark, but few would argue that they love it. Uber has become an essential service in Silicon Valley, but most of its riders use it while battling through a distinct sense of ambivalence. Even Amazon, which has been indispensable to many people’s lives for years, benefited greatly from its introduction of the Kindle and, later, the Echo speaker as the home of its Alexa voice assistant.
At Google I/O this past week, I got another affirmation of this belief that hardware is the thing that pulls in eyeballs and affection most readily. Google, basically, had none. Everything happening in Mountain View these days is about blending artificial intelligence and machine learning into everyday tools and services, and there wasn’t a new Google Home speaker like there was last year to give a corporeal manifestation to these efforts. I’ve no doubt that the work Google is doing now will prove fruitful down the line and make future Android and Chrome OS devices that much more enticing — but in the short term, people were left a little disappointed by the absence of new Google gadgets to gawk at and consider.
Physical things anchor our gadget lust in the real world and ultimately soak up whatever goodwill the software on those gadgets engenders. Yes, people have their favorite apps, but the appreciation for an app’s quality rarely translates into love for its maker. With hardware, on the other hand, a great user experience is almost always converted into brand loyalty. That’s part of Apple’s grand success, it’s the catalyst for growing fan appreciation for Microsoft and Amazon, and it was the thing that made Google I/O feel a bit boring.
This week Bungie finally took the wraps off of Destiny 2, the long-awaited sequel to the vast, online sci-fi shooter. We learned a lot: the new Destiny will be more approachable for new players, it’ll make it easier to manage loot, and it will introduce clans and other new social features. Destiny 2 will also feature four brand new areas to explore — and like the original game, they look gorgeous.
The new game will introduce three new planets, including Titan, Io, and Nessus. They’re joined by Earth, where the action has shifted from Old Russia to an area called the European Dead Zone. Each environment looks to bring something new to the experience. The surface of Titan is completely covered in a vast ocean, for instance, so players will explore abandoned, sinking human settlements surrounded by water. Nessus, meanwhile, is a tiny planetoid completely overrun by the cybernetic Vex.
Players won’t be able to explore these new worlds until Destiny 2 launches on September 8th (and possibly a bit later for PC gamers). But you can get a taste of what to expect with the screenshots below.
At The Verge, we recognize that great design is about paying attention to the details. Here we call out just one thing, a design element we appreciate on  the cars we test drive that is brilliant, simple, or a mere marvel.
When I drove the Rolls-Royce Dawn, I was smitten by many of its fine details: cashmere headlining, lambswool floor mats, the retractable Spirit of the Ecstasy adorning the hood. But if I had to pick to one element that gives this cabriolet a stately presence, it’s the British brand’s choice to include doors hinged at the rear that swing out in a dramatic flourish. Rolls-Royce calls the distinctive design choice “the coach door.” But I prefer the iconic pop cultural terminology: the suicide door.
When you pull up in a Dawn, it’s clear, you are no mere UberX passenger. From the interior, you pull the thin handle with a gentle nudge, and the heavy door swings out at dramatic, yet measured angle. It’s a delicate exercise in firm but subtle craftsmanship, and shows off the company’s exemplary craftsmanship. As the door gradually swings, you get a peek of the sidewalk, which allows you pause to straighten your skirt or smooth your sport coat. It is in the studied design execution that Rolls-Royce shines: the handle itself is light to the touch and though the door is substantial, it doesn’t fly out in a manner that causes you to stumble and scrape the curb. In other words, in this architecture, Rolls-Royce has perfected the effortless departure.
Because you are in a Rolls-Royce, it’s likely that you are being chauffeured, and you may never even touch a door handle. The driver or the valet will hold your door open, taking hold of the gleaming stainless steel exterior handle centered below the exterior mirrors and the edge of the windshield. The handles are actually worth noting — elongated, thick, and shaped in the form language of late art deco sculpture. Rolls-Royce says that 80 percent of the panels on the Dawn are original to the car, so placement of the doors accentuates the seamless and smooth A pillar. The handles draw your eyes to the center but taper neatly into the rear quarters and onward to the high wheel haunches. Because of the position of the door, it’s almost as if your driver is forced to step aside and make way for you in the exercise of opening it. Once completely open, there’s no awkward shifting or hoisting yourself out. You swivel, rise, and exit. When you show up in the Rolls-Royce Dawn, the suicide doors swing open and you have arrived.
It’s understandable that Rolls-Royce and other carmakers continue to resist the pop cultural slang reference to this age old, yet distinctive feature. A current debate rages on over minimizing the taking one’s life, fueled by the Netflix drama 13 Reasons Why. We’ve moved beyond the punk rock era when it was in vogue to name your band after the act of self-harm (see Suicide Machines and Suicidal Tendencies) and films like Heathers that made suicide satiric folly. It was only last year that the Marvel-inspired Suicide Squad hit the big screen. But as Jim Kocs reported for the classic car insurance company Hagerty, car companies always avoided this term in official press materials. “To be clear, no carmaker has ever called rear-hinged doors “suicide doors.” That would have been, well, marketing suicide. As car buffs, though, we love latching on to such pieces of jargon.”
Notes from the driver’s seat
While the Dawn isn’t the top-of-the-line Rolls Royce (that badge goes to the flagship Phantom, that starts at $417,825) the MSRP on the 2017 Dawn is $341,125. The test car I drove was priced at $412,430, and the largest add-ons included the $27,630 USA package and the $10,600 Andalusian white paint job, a cost difference which equals out to the price of a mid-range luxury coupe. But if you have to ask, then you’re probably not buying a Rolls-Royce and you certainly don’t buy this car if you are concerned with economy. Economy of price nor fuel isn’t central to the brand ethos. The Dawn earns only 14 miles per gallon, similar to its closest relative, the hardtop Wraith coupe, which it shares the 122.5-inch wheelbase, suspension, and drivetrain. The hefty Dawn weighs 5776 pounds, and produces 563 horsepower from its substantial V12 engine. But the real story is how well all these numbers come together. To drive this coupe to isn’t about the ride, but more the glide.
And the fact that no historian can verify the origins of this bit of slang only adds to the mystique, which is cool, but emo-tragic, dating back to an era when cars had no seat belts, and fatal accident rates were much higher. If the door became unlatched, the results could be perilous. Norman Mayersohn wrote in the The New York Times, “What happened next hardly needs to be said out loud. In the era before seat belts, if the passenger was leaning against the door, out he went.”
Other theories about origins of the suicide doors continue to fuel rumors. “Another urban legend maintains that 1930s gangsters liked the door design because it made pushing someone out of a moving car easier. If that were true, though, wouldn’t the correct term be “homicide doors?” Kocs wrote.
Before cars, horse carriages used this rear-hinged design. Suicide doors were favored in pre-war automobiles throughout the the 1930s. Ken Gross, an automotive historian, explained their evolution in an interview with the Verge. “They were fairly common on many domestic and imported car makes in the 1930s — even Ford used them on some models. A forward-opening door — either in front or back -- permitted easier access and egress — especially for women in long skirts or dresses. Hinging the front door at the rear also facilitated a more slanted windshield.” Rolls-Royce used suicide doors on many of its cars including the round doors on the original Phantom produced in 1925. Other bespoke luxury automakers favored this statement making design. “Besides Rolls-Royce, Figoni and Falaschi coachwork on Delahaye, Talbot-Lago and Delage, with forward-opening front doors accounted for many gorgeous cars,” Gross said.  Yet it was the 1961 Lincoln Continental wins the unofficial award for the most iconic suicide door design.

Modern day examples of suicide doors show more practical applications to maximize the use of space such as the BMW i3, the foregone Honda Element, and many four-door pickups.
But in the ultra luxury field where Rolls-Royce plays, suicide doors are about making a statement. When Rolls-Royce joined forces with parent company BMW in 1998, it resurrected the coach doors on its 2004 Rolls-Royce Phantom. Rolls-Royce continues to own this feature across its product line. But if you’re in the delirious state of mind to drive this hand-built sculptural object of beauty around town, the Dawn has stunning impact when the six-layer cloth top is dropped. And when the doors are open there’s something particularly decadent about a convertible car that includes a discreet storage system in the door panel to store an umbrella.
The piercing presence of a Rolls-Royce convertible is not meant to be about discretion. It’s about being noticed. On the Dawn, suicide doors slay.



The Syfy Channel released its first trailer for the upcoming third season of Dark Matter. While the channel some heavy-hitting shows like The Expanse and The Magicians, Dark Matter is a fun, pulpy space opera that hails back to the days when shows like Farscape and Stargate SG-1 ruled the airwaves, and this latest trailer looks like we have a fun season before us.
The teaser serves as a good indication of what to expect next season: lots of action, plenty of dubious characters, and a new big arc following some of the surprises at the end of last season. The first two seasons are currently streaming on Netflix, and it’s well worth picking up if you’re looking for some lighter sci-fi action to binge through. Joseph Mallozzi, who ran Stargate SG-1, Stargate Atlantis, and Stargate Universe for Syfy, has a five year plan scheduled out for the show, and it’ll be interesting to see where this season takes us.
Dark Matter, if you haven’t seen it yet, follows the crew of a starship called the Raza. In the first episode, we learn that the crew had been put into stasis, and while asleep, their memories were wiped. The crew eventually discover that they were all hardened criminals, but unburdened by their histories, they set off to figure out how to make their way in the galaxy, running afoul of major corporations, mercenaries, other criminals, and even themselves.
The show sits nicely alongside Syfy’s other show about a crew onboard a spaceship, Killjoys. Together (and along with The Expanse), they help fill the years-long lack of science fiction shows about space on the channel. Both shows are set to air their third seasons in June: Dark Matter returns on June 9th, while Killjoys returns on June 30th.
Escape rooms have become incredibly pervasive over the past few years, but they’re not usually thought of as fantastic storytelling platforms. They’re more about the premise: giving participants a way to buy into the idea that they’re locked in a single location for a given amount of time, so they can create their own personal tale of how they collaborated with friends to get out, or failed miserably.
In the Los Feliz neighborhood of Los Angeles, a show called The Nest has been changing that. Designed as a side project by a duo from Walt Disney Imagineering — the creative group behind the company’s elaborate theme parks — it utilizes serialized radio play elements and detailed set design to tell the tragic life story of a woman named Josie. The Nest may involve sending a pair of participants into an enclosed space and, yes, they may need to collect clues to make their way out. But the project transcends its escape room and video game influences, turning a well-known format into a dramatic and emotional experience that is utterly unique.
“The idea of doing our own show had always been brewing,” Jarrett Lantz tells me over the phone. Lantz and co-creator Jeff Leinenveber are the founders of Scout Expedition Co., the company behind The Nest. The duo first met through Imagineering — both worked on attractions at Shanghai Disney — but outside of the office they found themselves increasingly intrigued by the world of immersive theater. That led to non-Disney collaborations with groups like Third Rail Projects and the interactive horror play Delusion, until they decided to create their own immersive production from the ground up. “I think that's the goal for a lot of designers,” Lantz admits. “Just to go through the entire process of putting on a show, because that's something that we had never done before”
The Nest begins with a letter. A woman named Josephine Annette Carroll has died and left her storage unit to her next of kin — which, audience members discover, is where they come in. They enter the storage unit (actually a repurposed structure in Leinenveber’s backyard) with only a flashlight to illuminate their path. An old-school tape recorder awaits inside, and as participants explore the story unfolds in a series of audio cassette recordings, labyrinthian mazes of junk, and mementos from Josie’s life.
“We say it's an immersive experience that has elements of a lot of different things,” Lantz explains, citing escape rooms and games like Firewatch and Gone Home as vital influences. “A little bit of immersive theater elements [are there], but obviously missing the actors and actresses themselves. It's not really any of those things, but it has a couple elements of each.”
Imagine the way holotapes are used to dole out story beats in Fallout 4, and you’ll get a sense of how the audio cassette portion of The Nest works. Audience members — only two go through the show at a time — find the tapes scattered throughout the space, and each recording reveals a part of Josie’s story, starting with her as a young, aspiring writer, and eventually tracking the triumphs and tragic disappointments of her life. But it’s a fragmented, non-linear narrative, participants hearing a given tape only when they find it and choose to listen. Which tapes they discover, and what order they hear them in, can lead to radically different interpretations of the same events.
“There's 12 main tapes, and then a bunch of secondary tapes,” Lantz says. The main tapes cover pivotal moments in Josie’s life — a career decision, for example, or a particular struggle with her husband, Tom — and are carefully placed in the space so audiences can’t miss them. Those secondary tapes, however, flesh out her story, adding new perspectives and insights. “Depending on the different filler tapes you find, you end up with a different impression of all those characters,” he explains. “Cause if you listen to some tapes, people are like, ‘Oh, Tom is so nice.’ And then other people are, ‘Tom is such an asshole!’”
When I experienced The Nest, I found myself on the latter team when it came to Tom, which seemed like a minor miracle of storytelling unto itself. There I was, looking through lockers and cabinets in the dark, and I’d been pulled in so completely that I was outright angry at what her husband had done. As the show worked towards its climax, I listened to one of the final tapes, guarding myself against what felt like an inevitable revelation in the slow-motion car crash that was Josie’s life. My stomach dropped when what I feared came to pass. The puzzles and locked doors that are so familiar from escape rooms were fun unto themselves and kept me constantly engaged, but they were simply the framework upon which Lantz and Leinenveber hung Josie’s story, and the combination resulted in a bracing emotional experience full of pain and regret.
It’s a testament not just to the narrative contained on the tapes, but to the storytelling done by the physical space itself — something that the creators’ work as Imagineers made them particularly suited for. “We are most confident in being set designers, and creating the set,” Leinenveber explains. “We wanted the set to be able to inform the story just as much as the writing.”
That approach is felt throughout the show. A set of old high school lockers that play an important puzzle-solving role evoke Josie’s internal angst and struggles with self-confidence, while a hidden space discovered towards the end reveals the single-minded obsession that overtook her in the wake of a particularly tragic personal loss. It’s not design for the sake of design; it’s character and story, expressed through physical objects the audience can touch and feel.
“There is a big difference between working at Imagineering and working on a small show like this,” Lantz says. “At Imagineering, when we decide what story we want to tell, we decide exactly what we want, we draw everything, and then we produce everything that we draw. And of course everything’s custom, and everything's millions and millions of dollars.” Working on an indie show, he says, requires working with found objects that can be discovered at estate sales or auctions, leading to a process of investigation and iteration that in the case of The Nest ended up transforming the story itself.
The lockers that I found so pivotal are perhaps the best example. “We went to this auction, and they happened to have a couple of sets of high school lockers,” Leinenveber explains. “That wasn't on our list of things to buy for the show. But when we came across them and they were the right price, we thought, ‘We need to get these, and we'll figure out a way to incorporate these into the show.’ Now I can't imagine the show without it.”
That combination of scrappy invention and high-end expertise is vital to the success of The Nest. And much like a blockbuster Hollywood filmmaker making an indie film in order to take some creative risks, building their own smaller shows allows both Leinenveber and Lantz to experiment in ways they can’t while working on big-budget theme parks.
“We've learned so much from Imagineering that applies to shows of any scale. Guest flow, operations; that's something we have to think about every day,” says Lantz. But those large-scale projects bring with them the stakes of large-scale investment. Scout Expedition Co., on the other hand, is a creative playground without any expectations but their own.
Leinenveber puts it best. “We want to use that opportunity to take big risks,” he says, and the constant sell-outs The Nest has been enjoying point to it paying off. (Tickets for the show’s recent June extension disappeared in less than 20 minutes, with the final July extension going on sale next month.) But it’s also a reminder of how nascent so many immersive mediums actually are. Escape rooms may be popping up everywhere, but creatively they’re still in their infancy, with endless undiscovered potential for creative exploration and new modes of storytelling. The Nest reveals one new direction to go in, but there are countless other avenues for creators to walk down and explore.
Scout Expedition Co., however, is already looking beyond The Nest’s unique audio drama-meets-escape room format. “We have lots of ideas for shows in the future, and they run the gamut in terms of style,” Lantz says. “We have ideas for Halloween stuff, of course, because it’s Los Angeles and you have to have a Halloween show. We also really want to focus on doing stuff that's more accessible to a wider audience.” They ultimately consider their work immersive theater, he says, which despite increasing visibility is still a niche format. “How do we expand that? How do you crack a more mainstream audience for this sort of thing?”
“We want to totally flip the script every time — or at least take a left turn,” adds Leinenveber. “If right now we don't have any actors, maybe next time we do. Or maybe next time it's a large-scale show with a bigger group. We just want to keep challenging ourselves.”
Tickets for the July run of The Nest will be available on June 18th at 3PM ET / 12PM PT. Presales will be available through the show’s newsletter.

This week was all about Google I/O including the announcement of Google Assistant for iOS, standalone VR headsets, and more — but when it comes to deals, the biggest highlights of the week are great discounts on laptops.
You may remember when we featured the Dell XPS 15 deal back in March, which was popular among The Verge readers. For $650 off, you can now get a fantastic deal on the same laptop with 16GB of RAM instead of 32GB. Our other favorite deal, exclusive to The Verge, is an additional $50 off the already discounted Lenovo 14-inch Flex 4 Series.
Looking for gaming deals? Check out Polygon’s roundup here.
Good Deals is a weekly roundup of the best deals on the internet, curated by Vox Media's commerce editor, Chloe Reznikov, in collaboration with The Verge's editorial team. You can submit deals to deals@theverge.com and find more Good Deals here.
Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy.
This post has been updated on May 21st to include the above Monoprice deal.


This was "Upfront" week for the TV industry, where everyone gets together for big presentations and parties and mingling and dealmaking. But more importantly for us, it's when networks reveal first looks at their upcoming shows.
That means there are a ton of trailers this week — more than I have the time to watch! — and for shows that in many cases aren't coming out until fall. I've included a few select ones below, but I want to direct you to roundups of all the big networks' new pilots in case you're interested:
In case that’s not enough for you, check out 13 more trailers below.
After a lot of delays, some messy production stories, and the departure of show runner and beloved TV show maker Bryan Fuller, CBS finally seems to be moving in on an actual start date for Star Trek: Discovery, and we got a first trailer for the show this week. For all the tumultuous production tales, the show seems to be looking pretty good. It's supposed to start some time this fall.
I'm trying to be kind here, so I'll say that I think the Emoji Movie's core conceit — a boy learning that it's okay to experience more than one emotion — is a nice premise. But that said, the highlight of this trailer is a branding opportunity for Candy Crush, so I don't have high hopes. Parents, prepare yourselves: it comes out July 28th.
CW's newest superhero series is Black Lightning. Despite being another DC character, the show won't join the shared universe occupied by the network's other series, like The Flash and Arrow. Maybe that's an odd choice, but maybe it'll open up more possibilities for this new entry. It certainly looks to be taking a somewhat more serious tone. There doesn't appear to be a start date just yet.
City of Ghosts profiles activists and journalists in Syria risking their lives to document ISIS. The filmmakers appears to have incredible access into the secretive world of this group of rebels, and so far, reviews have all been glowing. City of Ghosts comes to theaters July 14th, before eventually heading to Amazon.
The new Planet of the Apes films have had surprisingly personal storylines threaded between their explosive scenes of violence, and this new trailer for War for the Planet of the Apes seems to be about finding a balance between the two of them. But of course, the film’s still a summer blockbuster at heart: it comes out July 14th.
Alison Brie stars in this new comedy from Netflix about 1980s wrestlers that looks about as outrageous as everything in the ’80s. The show comes from several names behind Orange is the New Black, so it seems to have found a fitting home. Its first season debuts June 23rd.
Marvel has another TV series in the works — this time, for Fox. The Gifted is an X-Men spinoff about mutants discovering their powers — it feels weirdly reminiscent of Heroes... which could be a good thing or a very, very bad thing. It starts sometime this fall.
Emma Stone and Steve Carrell star in this very funny looking and depressingly relevant re-imagination of the 1973 tennis match between Billie Jean King and Bobby Riggs, known as The Battle of the Sexes. The film comes from the directing duo behind Little Miss Sunshine, and it looks like it taps into the same kind of occasionally strange and uncomfortable humor that film excelled at. It comes out September 22nd.
Cary Fukunaga, the director behind True Detective season one, returns to haunting murder cases with The Alienist, a period piece about a secret investigation into murders of child sex workers in 1890s New York. Fukunaga wrote and executive produced the series — he was supposed to direct it all too, but eventually pulled out. There are some big actors involved, so this is worth keeping an eye on.
This animation looks beautiful. The Breadwinner is about a 12-year-old girl dealing with life in Afghanistan under the Taliban. It comes from several of the people behind Song of the Sea and The Secret of Kells, both of which received Oscar nominations for best animated film, so expected to hear more about this one later this year. It comes out in North America sometime this fall.
FX's new series Snowfall looks at the rise in crack use in 1980s Los Angeles and the different players involved: namely, powerful white guys making lots of money, and black kids who end up seeing the consequences of it. It starts July 5th.
After premiering at Cannes to... strange reactions... Netflix has put out a full trailer for Okja, a film about a girl and the giant pig-creature she loves. It comes from the director behind The Host and Snowpiercer, has a bunch of great actors involved, and just generally looks fantastic — it's weird how much this feels like a Bong Joon Ho film just from the way the characters move. It comes out June 28th.
I'm not saying I'm happy about this. I'm just saying that The Big Bang Theory is one of the most popular show on TV. So prepare to see this around.
Every once in a while, a friend attends therapy for the first time and starts breathlessly reporting all the revelations she’s learned. In many of these circumstances, it’s all I can do to stop myself from yelling that I, or any of her other friends, could just as easily have told her these same “discoveries.”
But I shouldn’t throw stones. When I announced that I finally realized I wanted to report on science, my best friend rolled her eyes at this obvious (to her) fact.
Almost nobody is self-aware, says psychologist Tasha Eurich in her new book Insight. So many of us are obsessed with “knowing ourselves” and spend hours contemplating who we are and how we appear to others. But few truly know either our own desires and goals (what she calls “internal self-awareness”) or how others see us (or “external self-awareness.”) The Verge spoke to Eurich about myths about self-awareness, how we can fix our delusion, and whether we even want to know the truth.
This interview has been lightly edited and condensed for clarity.
Is it always better to know? You’ve said that, even though it might be somewhat painful, being self-aware is ultimately helpful. But why is that true? I feel like there’s been a body of literature on how a bit of positive delusion can get us through life more easily.
What I found in my research is that when we are self-aware, we’re happier, we make better decisions at work and at home, we raise more mature children, the list goes on. Leaders who are more self-aware even lead more profitable companies.
There is a body for research from the 1980s that said little bit of self-delusion is a good thing. The unfortunate reality is that in the 1990s and onward, most of that research  was sort of exposed as being not very empirically true. Not to say they were being intentionally misleading, but there is work showing that if people have rose-colored glasses, they might feel good in some sense, but they also tend to be less happy, less successful and, equally importantly, the people around them tend to view them pretty negatively, which has bad effects.
Why are they more unhappy? Is it because they realize on some level that they’re deluding themselves?
They’re not necessarily more unhappy because they secretly know the truth. Here’s an example:  somebody is super deluded about their singing ability. They’re a pre-med student and going to quit their pre-med program to audition for The Voice, but they don’t make it past the first round.  They feel horrible. They’ve changed  the course of their life for this and it wasn’t a good choice.
It’s a silly example, but when we don’t have a clear understanding of who we are, we tend to make choices that aren’t in our best interest. We go for things that we’re not going to succeed at, or a path that we’re not suited for. When we’re delusional about ourselves, we frustrate and alienate the people around us too.
I have a question about language. If someone thinks they’re good at something when they’re not, we say they’re “not self-aware.” But if they’re deluded in the other direction and think they’re worse than they are, we don’t say they’re “not self-aware,” we say they’re “insecure.” Why the difference? Are the insecure people also not self-aware?
Just as being overly proud about what we bring to the table is bad, it’s bad to under-appreciate what our gifts are. I wouldn’t call either of those self-awareness.
Being self-aware doesn’t mean that we hate ourselves. People who see themselves clearly are more forgiving and they’re gentle and compassionate toward both themselves and others. People who are self-aware are higher in empathy and perspective-taking. It kind of does make sense because part of truly being self-aware is understanding how you come across to other people and the impact you have on them. And to be able to do that you kind of have to put yourself in their shoes.
One thing you emphasize is that the people who introspect the most aren’t any more self-aware than others. Why is this?
I found in my data that people who reported spending large amounts of time in self-reflection—everything from their thinking about their thoughts to their emotions to what they want out of life— were not only less self-aware, but were also less happy, more anxious, less satisfied with their lives and relationships. I was just floored.
It’s not that self-reflection is categorically ineffective, it’s just that so many of us fall into these hidden pitfalls. Probably the easiest way to explain this is to, as many psychologists do, blame Sigmund Freud. He was completely correct that there is an an unconscious self, with certain thoughts and feelings and emotions that we don’t have conscious access to. But where he was wrong was in thinking through psychoanalysis or anything else that we can access those parts of ourselves. No matter what we do, we can’t access a lot of these unconscious thoughts. So what people try to do when they’re self-reflecting, they say for example, why do I keep sabotaging my relationship? And inevitably that question leads you down to a path in your childhood and your most fundamental relationships and you realize you felt abandoned by your parents.
We think we find the answer because it feels right but more often than not, we’re wrong. We feel proud of ourselves for concluding that the root of all our relationship issues is something in our childhood. But even if it’s right, it doesn’t do anything to help us move forward in a productive way.
We definitely should be spending time self-reflecting. It’s just that we need to change how we’re doing it. One takeaway is to start asking ourselves “what” questions instead of “why” questions. Instead of “why am I like this, why am I sabotaging my relationships?” I can say, “ What am I going to do about it? What do I want out of this relationship?”  When we do that it starts to focus on what we can control. It focuses on the future. It focuses us on action, that’s where there really has been a lot of evidence that we can get a lot of insight.
Some people like to introspect just because it’s interesting. But some people are really scared of not being self-aware and analyze all these things to try to get there. Is this still futile?
Obsessive thinking, or rumination, is one of the kind of insidious tricks that we play on ourselves. When we ruminate, it feels like we’re doing that so we can be more self-aware. You know, if I remember this conversation over and over, surely I’ll figure out a way to do it differently in the future. When we do that, there are certain parts of our brains that are activated that prevent us from being cool and detached and curious and instead they rile us up and get us upset. So one of the biggest mistakes people make, especially self-conscious and self-critical people, is believing that type of thinking is good for them or beneficial in some way. It’s actually truly one of the worst things.
Are there any group of people who are more likely to be self-deluded? Young or old, male or female, and so on?
There was absolutely no demographic pattern in who was self-aware and who wasn’t. Men and women were equally likely and unlikely, age was not associated with increased self-awareness. It didn’t matter what your job type was or where you grew up in the world or your level of education. At first I was scratching my head but what I came away with was a sense of hope and optimism that it sort of doesn’t matter where you start off, everyone is equally likely to build that level of self-awareness. But by the same token, everyone is equally likely to be delusional if they’re not working to prevent that.
What are some ways to become more self-aware?
I wish it was as simple as saying if you do this one thing, but to keep it super simple, here are two. The first one is the five-minute daily check-in. I think that’s so powerful because it sort of prevents us from overthinking things. We say, I’m going to spend no more than five minutes at the end of every day checking in. It allows us to get that quick hit of insight without falling into any of those traps of self-examination.
I also something as simple as asking your friends, why are you friends with me? We know that people hate giving any sort of feedback and often even don’t tell us the positive effects even, so why wouldn’t you ask that?
I’ve personally done that exercise a couple times recently and I’ve been shocked at what I learned. Somebody said I was “brave and courageous” and I see myself as one of the most risk-averse people on the planet. The next level is to say, what is it that I do that is most annoying? It doesn’t mean it’s an indictment and it doesn’t need to be something we decide to work on, but it’s good information to have.
You say that one thing that’s necessary for self-awareness is, paradoxically, letting go of the truth for absolute truth, and if we keep searching for that, it won’t help us. Why not?
It goes back a lot to the Freud stuff. His belief and his practice sort of assumes that there was one singular simple explanation for everything that we do and the reality is those answers simply don’t exist.
If you get in a fight, it’s just as likely that that day you were exhausted and you had low blood sugar than that there was some neat, clear explanation. The people who are the most self-aware don’t force themselves into those simple kind of absolute truths. They’re willing to acknowledge that it’s messy.
And to be perfectly honest, no one will ever become completely self-aware. One of the really self-aware people explained it by saying that the process of self-exploration is like exploring space: there’s so much we don’t know, and that’s what makes it so exciting. They sort of remove the pressure off of themselves, and paradoxically in doing that, it helps them have a deeper, more complex appreciation of who they are.
The Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America is currently holding its annual conference in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania this weekend. This evening, the organization announced the winners of this year’s Nebula Awards, recognizing some of the best science fiction and fantasy works from last year.
io9 co-founder Charlie Jane Anders walked away with the award for Best Novel. In her acceptance speech, she said that she constantly wrestled with the idea that she wasn’t good enough to write All the Birds in the Sky, and that she hoped that her award means that the next person arguing with themselves will be able to “tell the voices to shut up and go and write their frickin’ book”. Other winners include Seanan McGuire for Best Novella, William Ledbetter for Best Novelette, and Amal El-Mohtar for Best Short Story. Denis Villeneuve’s Arrival won the Ray Bradbury Award for Outstanding Dramatic Presentation, and David D. Levine earned the Andre Norton Award for Young Adult Science Fiction and Fantasy. SFWA also awarded Jane Yolen the Damon Knight Memorial Grand Master Award.
The event’s toastmaster was Astronaut Kjell Lindgren, who spent 141 days on the International Space Station as part of the Expedition 44 and Expedition 45 missions, where he served as a flight engineer and mission specialist. You might remember him as one of the astronauts who sampled the first station-grown lettuce and took part in an EVA to upgrade the station. He spoke about how NASA was turning science fiction into science fact, and that as a science fiction fan, it was a pleasure to meet some of his heroes who wrote the stories he grew up with. “I am here today because of science fiction,” he said, “my path to space was paved with books.”
The Nebula Awards are awarded annually by SFWA, whose members nominate their favorite works from the past year. This year’s nominees are an acclaimed and diverse body of work from 2016, and all of the novels made their way onto our best of 2016 book list back in December.
Here’s the full list of winners (listed in bold) and nominees:

Uber has been charging some passengers differently based on the routes that they’re taking, according to a pair of reports in Bloomberg and Business Insider. The goal of the pricing scheme is to help entice drivers in those areas to help reduce wait times for passengers.
Traditionally, Uber has charged riders based on the mileage, time on the road, and surrounding demand. Last year, the company has been testing a route-based pricing with its UberX service in 14 cities that also use UberPool, in which it charged customers more for high-demand routes. Bloomberg spoke with Uber executives, who said that the company is using machine learning to figure out when riders are willing to pay more for their ride in certain areas.
However, drivers for those high-demand routes won’t see an increase in pay. The difference between those increased fares and the driver’s pay goes to Uber, which in turn uses it to pay for promotions, “such as dropping the price of an UberPool route from $10 to $8,” according to Business Insider. “Instead of drivers making less on the $8 fare cut, Uber will still pay them based on the $10 fare.” The company stressed in a statement to Android Headlines that riders will still know how much they’re being charged.
Last year, Uber introduced an upfront pricing model designed to remove some of the uncertainty around surge pricing during periods of high demand, while at the same time, Uber drivers have noticed and complained about the gap between their pay and what their passengers are paying in fares. Speaking to Business Insider, Daniel Graf, Uber's head of product, noted that one of the goals is to provide drivers with “consistent earnings,” saying that without them, drivers will go elsewhere. Essentially: some riders will pay more, but the excess will be used to try and reduce fares in the area.
The pricing change comes at a precarious time for the ride-share company. While the company continued to grew in 2016, it lost nearly $3 billion. It also faced numerous problems, such as allegations of sexual harassment and toxic working conditions, that it stole trade secrets from Waymo, and that it tried to hide its activities from regulators and other tech companies.
Amazon could be looking to expand its cashier-free grocery stores to the UK and Europe in the future. The company recently filed several trademark applications related to its Go stores with the UK’s Intellectual Property Office and its European Union equivalent.
The company filed applications to trademark four slogans: “No Lines, No Checkout. (No, Seriously),” “No Queue, No Checkout. (No, Seriously),” “Every Queue is a Defect,” and “Every Line is a Defect.” The slogans are similar to one used by the company when it first announced its Go stores last December. At the time, there were reports that the company intended to open around 2000 stores, although Amazon denied those plans. We’ve reached out to Amazon for comment, and will update if we hear back.
Amazon’s Go stores are designed for customers to walk in, take what they want, and leave, all without having to go through a checkout line. Customers scan their Amazon account when they enter, and the store tracks what items they pick up, charging them when they leave. The stores reportedly will only require six to ten employees per location.
Amazon still has a ways to go before it expands its stores into foreign markets, however. The first store was reportedly supposed to open in March, but technical problems have apparently pushed that back: the stores reportedly break down if there’s more than 20 people inside, while there are also issues with tracking products put back in the wrong place.
According to Bloomberg, UK grocery chains such as Tesco and Sainsbury are concerned about Amazon’s potential entry into local markets, especially as they face competition from discount grocers such as Aldi and Lidl. Last year, Amazon launched delivery service Amazon Fresh in parts of London.

Maybe I’m a little late to the hashtag-mindfulness movement, but I just recently started using a meditation app. There are plenty of articles touting the supposed benefits of meditation practices — ranging from from “charting new pathways in the brain” to remaining in a zen-like state when having a conversation about politics — and in recent years the market for mental wellness and meditation services has grown to more than $1 billion. But for me the impetus was convenience: my gym app started offering meditation practices for free, and for awhile they were shoved in my face every time I opened the app.
What’s surprised me more than my almost-immediate taking to this new feature in the app (which the gym has labeled “Headstrong”, not to be confused with the wildly popular Headspace), is how much I like wearing Apple’s wire-free AirPods while I’m using it. I know, I know: fetishizing an Apple product while trying to achieve mental clarity, through a practice that at its roots is supposed to help quell earthly desires, is borderline ridiculous. Also, big caveat! AirPods don’t fit everyone well, and ill-fitting headphones are just as irritating as having Donald Trump’s tweets read aloud to you while trying to meditate (good luck with that).
But unlike my Verge colleague Sean O’Kane, the AirPods feel good in my ears, and when I wear them I can pretty much forget they’re there. I can sit up, or lie down, or lie down and then sit up, and they’re there, but I don’t realize they’re there. There’s no neckband behind my head or cables snaking over my ears or tiny shark fins poking my ear cartilage; and there’s no dangling wire tickling the side of my face and keeping me leashed to my smartphone. I’m completely unencumbered for six or ten or fourteen minutes, or at the very least, able to convince myself I’m unencumbered, since the whole thing is still powered by a smartphone.
Since they’ve come to market I’ve worn the AirPods during a variety of activities, and in general I’ve been impressed by their staying power. I’ve walked, hiked, run, jumped rope, and lifted weights while wearing them. Somehow, they stay in my ears. The only time I’ve been in danger of losing the tiny ear dongles was when I pulled a sweatshirt over my head and one got caught in its laundry-bound path.
But during almost every activity I’m still very much aware of them, whether it’s because I’m consciously listening to a music playlist, or because someone comments on them, or because I’ve caught a glimpse of myself in a gym mirror and thought, Oh god, I’ve become one of the AirPods people.
When I’m sitting there attempting to use the meditation app, the AirPods become one less thing I have to remember to forget. I can still hear ambient noise from the outside world, but there’s also a voice whispering directly into my ears, one that feels like it’s curling up along the edges of my brain. If you’ve ever used headphones to fall asleep, you know the sensation: there’s the low hum of a TV, maybe, or the murmur of voices from another room or in the car, just enough to keep you aware of what’s going on around you, but your attention is focused on the thing you’ve chosen to listen to.
Lots of people use meditation apps without AirPods. Lots of people meditate without the use of any kind of app or guide at all. You don’t need AirPods to meditate. But for me they’ve become the surprisingly perfect accessory.



Sony has released a new video for Star Wars Battlefront II, in which the game’s creators talk about how the story came together, and how it’ll provide new insight into the Star Wars universe.
Battlefront II will hit stores later this year, and once it does, players will take the perspective of an elite Imperial unit known as Inferno Squad. In the video, game director Mark Thompson says that Motive Studios wanted to tell a “soldier’s story,” from the perspective of the Empire.
The single-player takes place after the events of Return of the Jedi, and will run up to the new sequel trilogy that includes The Force Awakens and The Last Jedi, and players will follow Commander Iden Versio, one of the Empire’s true believers. The game’s creators wanted to get inside the heads of the Imperial soldiers, so it’s “not just a faceless stormtrooper who is part of a legion who all believe in the same thing,” and that “we take [players] to a place where they can understand Iden and why she makes the decisions that she does.”
That backstory isn’t limited to just the game, either: a novel, Battlefront II: Inferno Squad, will explore the origins of the unit following the events of Rogue One.
Star Wars Battlefront II will hit stores on November 17th, 2017.
Earlier this week, the National Press Club alleged that security guards ‘manhandled’ a journalist after attempting to ask FCC commissioners a question following a press conference. Now, two senators have written a letter to FCC Chairman Ajit Pai, asking for a formal explanation.
In the letter, Senators Tom Udall (D-NM) and Maggie Hassan (D-NH) point out that the FCC sets an example when it comes to supporting the first amendment, and that they were disturbed by reports of the incident.
“Yesterday’s incident at the FCC is not an isolated one and seems to be a part of a larger pattern of hostility towards the press characteristic of this Administration,” they wrote. The pair requested a response by Friday, May 26th, asking for Pai’s description of the event and the FCC’s security policies, an explanation for the security guard’s actions, and an assurance that such incidents “will not happen again.”
The Hollywood Reporter published an oral history of Saturday Night Live’s “yuuuge year” this week, filling in the backstory of its most popular sketches, monologues, casting choices, and brushes with controversy. The piece is a celebration, accompanied by an elaborate photo spread: glamour shots of each major player in costume, and a group shot with Alec Baldwin seated at the center, chowing down on that “beautiful” chocolate cake Trump recalls so vividly from the moment he was bombing Syria.
This season of Saturday Night Live was big, unsurprising at first, as the show always sees a boost in ratings during an election year. But when Trump was elected, there was no post-election dip. By February it was clear that this would be SNL’s top-rated season in 20 years. Six months after the election, with the season finale airing tonight, those ratings have held.
The Trump Administration has given a huge cast of characters to draw from. People like Sean Spicer, Steve Bannon, Kellyanne Conway, Stephen Miller, and Jared Kushner all hold positions that wouldn’t have made someone famous enough to register in an SNL sketch in any other administration. Even Rex Tillerson’s and Jeff Sessions’ posts would have been slightly outside the average American’s interests. Celebrities are eagerly offering themselves up to play these parts. The President can’t help but publicly rage about the show, and rumors trickled out that he was particularly irate about Melissa McCarthy’s surprise turn as Spicer. For the first time in a long time, Saturday Night Live has a veneer of cool. Of mattering.
What has late-night’s most famous institution done from on top of that hill?
In the THR piece, writer and Weekend Update co-anchor Colin Jost is (surprisingly), the voice to call out the elephant in the room: “Politics right now is probably the closest we've come to a full-blown national phenomenon as anything in a long time, and anytime people are paying more attention to politics, it's good for our show. But you almost feel like a war profiteer at times because we've benefited from a situation that's so tough.”
NBC wasted no time in capitalizing on the moment. In March, the show switched to a schedule of broadcasting live in all US time zones, rather than just the East Coast. NBC’s Robert Greenblatt cited SNL’s renewed relevance, explaining the change as something of a public service: “We thought it would be a great idea to broadcast to the West and Mountain time zones live at the same time it’s being seen in the East and Central time zones. That way, everyone is in on the joke at the same time.”
From then on, Saturday Night Live would be primetime television for anyone who lives on the West Coast, a tacit declaration of cultural centrality that NBC has never dared make before in the show’s 42-year history. Not long after that, SNL was commissioned to write its first advertisements, for Verizon and Apple, which would run during its broadcast.
Being good at the business end of success isn’t the same as stepping up to the plate creatively, and Saturday Night Live has seemed continually and newly daunted by the task at hand.
In some ways, you can’t blame them — the Trump administration has plunged the country into a deep lagoon of unprecedented situations, unfathomable characters, and inescapable dread. Why should they know what to do with it? Does anyone? In February, just as it was becoming clear that Trump could very well launch SNL into the ratings stratosphere for good, The Outline’s Leah Finnegan wrote, “Comedy doesn’t matter under fascism; the best spoof of the Trump Administration is the Trump Administration itself. You know who would really be a hilarious choice to play Sean Spicer? Sean Spicer.”
Her argument calls to mind the last time that SNL was asked to reckon with a surreally ridiculous person making their way towards the White House — Sarah Palin, in 2008, who Seth Meyers (then head writer) and Tina Fey lampooned partially by reciting her own words.
It worked pretty well in 2008, and SNL made use of it a few times with Trump too, but it’s not going to work every week for four years. Saturday Night Live had to make some quick decisions about its responsibilities, if it had any, and it seems what they decided was to have their cake and eat it too: eagerly accept the country’s attention and then service it with some incredibly lazy attempts to make it laugh.
The season is best summarized by viral sketches that, boiled down, were just the easiest, most Facebook-shareable joke to make about the most ridiculous thing that happened in the preceding week: If Russia’s influence on the election or the administration was in the news, Putin would pop up shirtless in the White House and kiss up to a witless Trump. If Kellyanne Conway was putting on a song and dance in the media they’d… have her put on a song and dance. They used the already exhausted framework of “Trump sees the world as a reality TV show” to explain what was going on with Steve Bannon and Jared Kushner, setting up a faux-Apprentice showdown between the two in the Oval Office. The sketch never arrived at a joke, but begged you to agree that the comparison was apt.
These sketches read as though they were written by aliens, aware of a handful of pop culture phenomenon and basic storytelling structures — eager to cleave the drama at hand to them, whether or not they fit, and regardless of whether the end result makes any sense.
SNL’s triumphant 42nd season is also pockmarked by bizarre, inconsistent takes on the women closest to the president: Melania Trump, Ivanka Trump, and especially, Kellyanne Conway. Saturday Night Live had no idea what to do with them. Scarlett Johansson’s viral turn as Ivanka in a parody ad for a fragrance called “Complicit” is solid, but it also underlines the fact that SNL doesn’t take the First Daughter’s power too seriously — else they would have made it a priority to assign someone to play her permanently. The year-old Beyoncé divorce-pump-fake in Lemonade was its best shot at getting into Melania’s head. Conway was slotted randomly and repeatedly into classics of the “crazy blonde lady” film genre.
In general, the show’s writers don’t seem to know how women play into any of this, and so they spun Elizabeth Warren as a shrill, overwhelmed try-hard, Ruth Bader Ginsburg as the spunky old lady gearing up to do battle with Trump (based on... what real world event, exactly?), and Omarosa, who by all available evidence seems to be nothing more interesting than wildly dumb and grossly opportunistic, as Trump’s reluctant, conflicted and disappointed “black friend.”
By turns giving these women too much credit and too little, SNL never developed a cogent, funny piece of satire about any of them.
Oddly, the whole season contained less than 15 cumulative minutes on Mike Pence. If I were to hazard a guess as to why it’d be that Beck Bennett’s impression of him is bad and his shirtless Putin is a reliable viral video. It’s fitting, I suppose, that the reason Bennett has no time to satirize the super-powerful man eager to roll back gay rights in the United States is because he has to continue hitting the one-note “Trump has a crush on Putin” joke week after week.
To be fair, one of Saturday Night Live’s biggest problems is not their fault. An impossibly, constantly escalating news cycle is rendering a show written during the week, about the whole week’s events, a nearly impossible task. Familiar narrative structures don’t hold any water in that environment, and too often the joke is already and irreversibly on all of us. Perhaps that why more insightful, frank, and enjoyable comedy about the Trump administration happens on the internet every day — where jokes made by individuals, in contrast to those made by TV shows, succeed more often in underlining how specific and personal many of the horrors of the last six months have been.
In that vein, the best thing Saturday Night Live made all season is still the December digital short, “Jingle Barack.” The rap bit celebrated one final Christmas without the various, specific worst-case scenarios faced by each marginalized demographic in the United States (the loss of Obamacare, threats to gay marriage, doors closed to immigrants), making it a tender, considered musical tribute to the type of gallows humor that brings people closer together. Chance the Rapper grins, chin up, on the words “it’s the last Christmas before Trump next year” and, seconds later, mutters “there’ll probably never be another Christmas Eve.” It’s goofy and charming, without being toothless, and it’s timely without dragging out a famous person who’s dedicating at least 20 percent of their brainpower to sartorial ideas for their Variety cover.
Those same factors make Aziz Ansari’s post-Women’s March opening monologue one for the history books and a recent Handmaid’s Tale sketch the rare pop culture spin-off that finds a sharp, smart joke in something painful.
These moments are so good they set the rest of the season in harsh contrast, making it plain that failures of empathy and imagination are what’s holding the show back. (The fact that the writers room is heavily white and male has rarely been more pertinent than it is now.)
Take Alec Baldwin’s constantly-in-the-news Trump impression, for example, which shows Donald pouting and preening, but always stationary, always harmless. Another stand-out in the THR roundtable is writer Kent Sublette quoting Lorne Michaels: "Half the country voted for Trump, and our show's for those people as well.” Sure, but shouldn’t a show founded 42 years ago as a counterweight for primetime TV’s saccharine vagueries be about what’s funny and what’s true, regardless of who it might put off?
Alec Baldwin is obviously not the first to turn a weak presidential impression into a personal boost. Will Ferrell’s, loose, hammy George W. Bush helped make him a star, and the style of it defined his early career. But it feels different now. Ironically, Baldwin’s contributions to the THR piece read like Trump-style boasts: “I'm not going to name names, but a cabinet member walked up to me at a restaurant in Manhattan — Manhattan, that's a hint — and he goes, 'I gotta tell you something. This thing you're doing is good, it's really good.’”
Delighting in his own personal renaissance, Baldwin even recalls asking if NBC would reach out to President Trump to guest star in the episode that he hosted. He was, it turns out, a fitting choice as the poster boy for the season.
At the end of its 42nd year, Saturday Night Live is a little too interested in enjoying its unexpected comeback, and a little too eager to brush off responsibility as “just a TV show” even as it wants recognition as the country’s biggest and most important TV show. It can still be good for something, but only if it looks a little deeper.











Alien: Covenant is now in theaters, and it helps steer the franchise right back into the space-horror territory that captivated audiences when the first Alien film hit back in 1979. While 2001: A Space Odyssey and Star Wars showed filmgoers that science fiction could go beyond cheap B-movies, Ridley Scott’s film was a separate revelation, proof that screen science fiction could also produce quality horror-dramas. His creepy, Freudian Alien captivated audiences, and became an instant horror classic.
But Alien didn’t come out of nowhere. Its filmmaking team was inspired by a whole range of works, both intentionally and otherwise, in constructing its fantastic world and horrifying creatures. Alien also broadly inspired a number of other works after it hit theaters. Here are eight stories you should pick up after blowing through the Alien films one more time.
A number of films helped inspire Alien, including Dark Star, Forbidden Planet, Planet of the Vampires, and more. But one that stands out is It! The Terror From Beyond Space, a 1958 B-movie that follows the lone survivor of a Mars mission. He’s thought to have killed his crewmates, but in reality, a Martian found its way onboard and killed all but one.  The premise is very similar to Alien’s, and reportedly, Alien screenwriter Dan O’Bannon was a fan.
A great video popped up last November that looked into why we don’t see many mainstream films adapted from Lovecraft’s works. It points to Alien as one example of an instance of where Lovecraft’s vision has been realized. Lovecraft’s stories deal with a particular brand of cosmic nihilism, complete with unimaginable, horrifying monsters that are beyond comprehension. One of the author’s best known works is At the Mountains of Madness, which deals with an expedition to Antarctica, which comes across some long-lost alien creatures. Alien might not draw directly from that story, but it certainly has its roots there.
A.E. van Vogt’s novel is collected from a series of short stories, and has long been thought of as a direct inspiration for Alien. The novel’s first story is 1939’s Black Destroyer, which introduces a creature known as a Coeuri, found on a distant planet. It’s hunted its prey to extinction, and happens upon a scientific expedition that’s landed on its home planet. The creature boards the ship and kills several crew members before it’s tricked into a life pod and jettisoned. Van Vogt reportedly sued 20th Century Fox for plagiarism, and eventually settled out of court.
The Alien franchise probably would have never come about if Alejandro Jodorowsky had been able to complete his adaptation of Frank Herbert’s Dune. The ambitious project pulled together an impressive production team, including H.R. Giger, Dan O’Bannon, and Jean Giraud (known as Mœbius). Jodorowsky's Dune chronicles the rise and fall of that project, and how these individuals influenced the look and feel of Ridley Scott’s production when Dune failed to come together.
Bungie’s Halo franchise emerged from a whole range of science-fiction stories, from Starship Troopers to Larry Niven’s Ringworld. Another huge influence comes from James Cameron’s Aliens. It’s easy to see just where the film pops up in the series when the space marines crash-land on the Halo ring. (Sergeant Major Johnson is a pretty direct copy of Aliens’ Gunnery Sergeant Apone.) The game also features the Flood, a familiar-sounding alien parasite that takes over human hosts and uses their biomass to spread.
On paper, this 2000 Vin Diesel thriller looks very much like Alien or Aliens: a spacecraft crash-lands on a remote planet, and when nightfall comes, the crew comes under attack by the planet’s native creatures. The film is an effective entry in the space-horror canon because it pits its characters not only against the creatures, but against one of the passengers, a monster in his own right. The series steered away from its horror roots in the sequel The Chronicles of Riddick, but later went right back to them with a second sequel, Riddick.
If you talk to the two authors who write the Expanse series under the pseudonym James S.A. Corey, and ask how the books came about, the conversation will inevitably turn to Alien, but not in the way you might think. While the books do touch on some horrifying aliens, the authors were influenced more by Ridley Scott’s blue-collar, truckers-in-space approach to the crew. They translated that into their novels, and that influence has made its way into the Syfy TV adaptation of their books. The last couple of episodes in the show’s second season also included a pretty cool homage to Scott’s film.
One of the latest films to fall under the “inspired by Alien” umbrella is Life, which came out in March. Before the film was even released, it was clear that the people behind the film watched Alien more than once, retelling the story of a terrifying alien aboard a spacecraft. We even noted in our review that Life blatantly borrows from its more famous predecessor, but doesn’t live up to its legacy.
In a report published by The New York Times today, Twitter co-founder Ev Williams says that “the internet is broken,” and that if Twitter is responsible for President Trump’s election in November, he’s “sorry.”
The report takes a look at Ev’s career, his current work with Medium, and his efforts to fix what he sees as an internet that is going off the rails. He notes he had initially believed that developing platforms such as Blogger and Twitter would improve the world by giving people a voice, but now thinks otherwise: “I was wrong about that.”
In particular, Williams expressed regret for the role that Twitter might have played in bringing Donald Trump to the White House. The president said in March that he believed that the service allowed him to deliver his message straight to his followers, and that he “wouldn’t be [president] if it wasn’t for Twitter.” Presented with that, Williams said that “It’s a very bad thing, Twitter’s role in that,” and that “if it’s true that he wouldn’t be president if it weren’t for Twitter, then yeah, I’m sorry.”
Williams observed that the internet as a platform rewards such extreme behavior, and likened it to a road where everyone slows down to watch car crashes. Twitter has become a road with plenty of those car crashes, and has struggled to balance what it sees as a neutral platform for speech, and providing a welcoming place for users. This spring, it began focusing on beefing up and introduced features designed to limit spam and harassment. With Medium, Williams wants to try and find a path that avoids those car crashes, although it remains to be seen how or if that’ll happen.
Since November, Twitter in particular has grappled with its role in the election, particularly in how Trump used the site, while abuse intensified throughout the 2016 campaign. Williams’ comments are unequivocal on the matter, a departure from Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey’s “complicated” feelings on the issue, who feels that the site helps keep Trump accountable.

When Bungie revealed the first gameplay trailer for Destiny 2 on Thursday, fans made a lot of noise about the new superpowers available and the CGI trailers setting up the new “Red War Campaign” story mode. There was even a comically loud cheering section when Bungie execs announced that, at long last, players wouldn’t be kicked to the game’s waiting zone every time they wanted to do a new activity. But a lot of the nuts-and-bolts changes to Destiny 2 went unmentioned onstage.
Luckily, I spent time on Thursday playing a healthy amount of the new Crucible multiplayer, a full-fledged three-person strike, and the introductory story mission. It’s safe to say that Destiny 2 feels and looks a lot like its predecessor — the changes here are going to be subtle ones. But they are important tweaks that will have some drastic effects on how you play both cooperatively against the AI and against other human opponents in competitive games.
Naturally, Bungie made a big deal out of its three new subclasses, including a fan-pleasing reveal of the Solar Warlock class, Dawnblade, during the first gameplay trailer. There’s also going to be a new Void Titan class, Sentinel, that is a straight up Destiny version of Captain America, shield and all. As for the Hunter, there’s a new Arc subclass called Arcstrider similar to the original game’s Bladedancer that replaces daggers with a lightning-imbued staff.
This was all pretty much known after Bungie’s presentation. What the developer didn’t tell you, however, is that even the old subclasses are getting revamped. I only had a chance to spend time with the Titan’s traditional Striker class from the first Destiny, but it was noticeably different.
For one, after using its signature Fist of Havoc skill, my super stayed active. I was able to run around the map while charged up with lightning and burst into my enemies at high speeds. It made the super skill less of a one-off shot in the dark and more of an ongoing strategic threat. Bungie has confirmed that there will be significant changes to the other existing subclasses to keep them feeling fresh.
I did however ask about whether the newly announced subclasses would mean the end of Sunsingers, Defenders, and Bladedancers, and Bungie designer and social lead M.E. Chung wouldn’t say in my interview with her. So for those who are desperately hoping the self-resurrection and bubble skills are still in the game, there is still a faint glimmer of hope.
A brand new addition to Destiny 2 is latent subclass abilities. In the first game, the only things that differentiated one subclass from another were jump styles, grenade and melee types, and super abilities. There was of course the unevenly distributed subclass skill, like Shadestep and Shoulder Charge, but those always felt like fun tricks rather than strategic tools.
Now, each subclass has a series of latent abilities that can be used on recharge. For instance, the new Dawnblade class for Warlocks allows players to create a temporary pool of light that either heals surrounding teammates or gives them a damage boost. This is also coming to older subclasses. The Titan’s Striker class can now create artificial walls to use as cover, while the Hunter’s Gunslinger can use quick dodges that simultaneously reload weapons.
During my time playing the strike as a Dawnblade, the pools of damage-boosting/healing light were critical in taking down higher-level enemies and staying alive during particularly grueling parts of the three-stage boss fight. We can expect every subclass to have some pretty unique abilities not dependent on a super charge, as Bungie seems intent on making the divisions between classes more pronounced.
Perhaps the most noticeable change to how Destiny 2 looks and feels is in the weapons system. The original game had three weapon slots: primary, secondary, and heavy. Primary weapons were guns like automatic rifles, revolvers, and burst firing guns. Secondary weapons were sniper rifles and shotguns (as well as fusion rifles and sidearms), while heavy weapons were exclusively large machine guns, rocket launchers, and, later on, swords.
Now, in Destiny 2, weapon slots are divided between kinetic, energy, and power weapons. Kinetic weapons still feel like standard primary ones: you have your hand cannons, auto rifles, pulse rifles, and so on. Yet energy weapons are now a kind of hybrid class that consists of any non-power weapon with an elemental charge. That means sidearms, but also any hand cannon or auto rifle with a solar, void, or arc flavor to it. In other words, your loadout can consist of a hand cannon in one slot and an elemental auto rifle in the next. This brings up a lot of interesting new combinations — imagining taking down an enemy's solar shield with your auto rifle and then swapping quickly to a hand cannon to land some head shots when his defenses have evaporated.
The power weapons are now where every one-hit-kill weapon has been grouped together. That means shotguns, fusion rifles, sniper rifles, rocket launchers, and all-new grenade launchers are all in one category. You can only have one equipped at any given time. In my time playing the new attack/defense game mode, Countdown, this created an interesting dynamic. Firefights remained long-range at first, as every player used the new submachine class or relied on a hand cannon or auto rifle. But as the power weapon counter went down, players began stocking up on shotgun, sniper, and rocket ammo and the fight took a radical shift toward more hectic, close-range and one-shot play.
Chung told me that this was designed to make Crucible more friendly and less about who could either close the distance faster and pull off that shotgun blast or camp and nail a sniper headshot. “Destiny 1 could have been better on the readability scale,” she said. “One-shot kills suck when they happen to you.” She added that Bungie wants Destiny 2’s multiplayer to be “learnable and watchable experience,” so that when you die you learn something new. This inevitably means less dependence on a “meta” weapon type and more strategic use of supers, latent abilities, and unique loadouts.
The new weapons system has had a noticeable effect on multiplayer combat. During my time playing Countdown, it was clear that Destiny 2 has borrowed more from the arena shooter realm dominated by Halo and thrown in some of the strategic teamwork of Counter-Strike and Call of Duty. In doing so, the game is leaving behind the more of the free-for-all slugfest aspects of the original Destiny that had everyone shotgunning each other — until someone wiped an entire squad with a super.
This means it’s quite a lot harder to take an enemy down, and it’s far easier on the opposing end to recover from a surprise attack and retaliate adequately. Enemies feel like they have more health and move quicker in relation to your ability to track them with your weapons, which has the effect of slowing down the combat from engagement to the time someone notches a kill. This resulted in some intense bouts that felt more like an exercise in environment control and critical thinking and less about instincts, timing, accuracy and other traditional shooter metrics.
It was a refreshing change, especially given how the original Crucible devolved into an ever-constant game of tag to see who could keep up with Bungie’s balancing system the best. Now, at least for the launch, players can look forward to combat that is fresh and, in my experience, fun to learn.

It was early Thursday morning when astronomer Matt Muterspaugh noticed something strange with the star he had been observing for the last year and a half. Telescope data  taken from the night before showed that the brightness of the star had dipped significantly. He contacted other astronomers who had also been observing the same star, to let them know what he had seen and to keep an eye on it for any more changes. Then by the following morning, the star had dimmed even more.
That’s when he and the others knew it was time to signal the alarm: the weirdest star in our galaxy was acting weird again. And it was time for everyone to look at this distant celestial body — to figure out what the hell is going on. “As far as I can tell, every telescope that can look at it right now is looking at it right now,” Muterspaugh, a professor at Tennessee State University, tells The Verge.
The star Muterspaugh has been looking at is KIC 8462852, though it’s also known as Tabby’s Star. That’s because Tabetha Boyajian, an astronomer at Louisiana State University, first noticed this strange star a couple years ago after looking through archive data from Kepler — a NASA spacecraft that’s been hunting for planets that exist outside of our Solar System. Boyajian was part of a citizen science project called Planet Hunters, where volunteers can analyze Kepler data to look for planets, and they alerted her to the wonky star. “Our users flagged it to be something really interesting,” Boyajian tells The Verge. “They came to the science team and asked, ‘What is this? That’s not a planet clearly.’”
The data showed that KIC 8462852 experienced some extreme fluctuations in brightness, way more than what a passing planet would cause. At one point, the star’s light dimmed by up to 20 percent. It was a huge dip, like nothing that had ever been seen before, indicating something big and irregular may be orbiting around the star.
@ajebson @NASAKepler @LCO_Global @keckobservatory @AAVSO @nexssinfo @NASA @NASAHubble @Astro_Wright @BerkeleySETI @ESO its 2% in r' band and looks like its the start pic.twitter.com/TjJdSY2ar9
Then in late 2015, astronomer Jason Wright from Penn State suggested a tantalizing scenario for the dips. Perhaps large megastructures created by an alien civilization were orbiting around the star, explaining the weird changes. “Aliens should always be the very last hypothesis you consider,” Wright told The Atlantic at the time, “but this looked like something you would expect an alien civilization to build.” That’s when Tabby’s Star became popularly known as the “alien megastructure” star.
Of course, astronomers are more focused on a natural explanation: perhaps a huge swarm of giant comets periodically orbits the star. The only way to narrow down the possibilities is to observe the star in real time as the dimming is happening. And all we had were past observations of the fluctuations caught by Kepler. “We were kind of stuck in a spot where we couldn’t do anything,” says Boyajian. “We had all the data we could and to learn anything more we needed to catch it in action again.” The problem, though, is that Tabby’s star is unpredictable. The fluctuations aren’t exactly repetitive and don’t seem to follow any known pattern — making it hard to know when the strange star will be strange again. “Things that change the brightness of a star happen in a very regular pattern,” says Muterspaugh. “And from what we can tell so far, [this star] is not periodic. We cannot predict when it happens, and that makes it very weird.”
That’s why astronomers have been observing the star basically around the clock since they first learned of its dimming behavior. To do this, Boyajian started a Kickstarter campaign called “Where’s the Flux?” to secure funding for enough telescope time to continuously monitor the star. The campaign successfully raised more than $100,000, which helped Boyajian and others set up a year-long observation program through the Las Cumbres Observatory, which has telescopes stationed throughout the world. At the same time, Muterspaugh independently set up an observation campaign with the robotic telescopes at the Fairborn Observatory in Arizona. These telescopes are essentially automatic, observing certain targets in the sky on their own when the rest of us are sleeping. Muterspaugh had programmed one of these telescopes to constantly keep an eye on Tabby’s Star. And for the most part, the star has been quiet, behaving more or less like normal.
Then on April 24th, data from Fairborn indicated that the star had dimmed ever so slightly. It wasn’t enough of a change for astronomers to think the star was acting up again, but everyone was still on their guard. There was an idea that this small dip could be a preliminary event before the real thing. And sure enough, nearly a month later, the huge dimming that Kepler saw seems to be happening again.
ALERT:@tsboyajian's star is dippingThis is not a drill.Astro tweeps on telescopes in the next 48 hours: spectra please!
And it’s really the moment that everyone has been waiting for with Tabby’s Star. It gives astronomers the opportunity to use their entire arsenal of telescopes to observe these fluctuations as they occur. Kepler only observed the light fluctuations in just one broad range of light colors. Now, we can use telescopes to observe the star’s light in numerous colors and light spectrums, and that can give us a better idea of the types of chemicals that are present when these changes occur or the properties of the objects that are blocking the light. For instance, if it is just a bunch of comets, then they’re going to be very close to the star and super hot, according to Jason Wright, and that’s something we can pick up by observing in the infrared spectrum.
If it’s the other theory — the alien one — then it’s unclear what we’ll see. Maybe we’ll see some kind of artificial element associated with the blockage. No one is making any definitive statements just yet, since now is the time to simply observe, and it’s going to be a while before astronomers decode what they see this weekend. So all the theories are still on the table — including the alien megastructures. “That theory is still a valid one,” says Muterspaugh. “We would really hate to go to that, because that’s a pretty major thing. It’d be awesome of course, but as scientists we’re hoping there’s a natural explanation.”
But the good news is we’re going to get a lot of data. Boyajian says the response from the science community has been overwhelming, and everyone who can help right now is doing their best to watch and document changes. “It’s neat to see it turn full circle from citizen scientists who discovered the star and then an opportunity for folks interested in science to follow up and learn more about what this star is,” Boyajian says. “It’s really humbling to work with all these science enthusiasts and have this support for this really interesting star.”
Update May 20th, 11:30AM ET: This post was updated to include quotes and information from Tabetha Boyajian.


Chinese app makers are reportedly upset with Apple after it issued a new policy that recognizes tips as in-app purchases, according to The Wall Street Journal. This means small donations made from inside popular social networks in China will soon be made eligible for Apple’s 30 percent revenue cut.
Unlike in the US and other Western markets, in-app tipping is a more common display of gratitude in China toward writers, developers, and other content creators who give out stuff for free. However, Apple last month demanded app makers disable the tipping function per the new App Store rules, which will now recognize any donation as an official in-app purchase. Those who don’t comply risk being kicked out of the App Store, the WSJ reports.
Tipping is typically done through apps like the massively popular WeChat, which acts much like a mobile operating system with other services bundled inside of it. This results in Chinese consumers making use of services like food delivery and reading the news all from within WeChat’s ecosystem, which encourages users to tip. Apple, until now, hasn’t seen any of that revenue in the same way it does with app downloads and other more traditional in-app purchases.
This debate over tipping is yet another sign that Apple’s relationship with China has become increasingly more fragile. The contention is now a source of concern for the iPhone maker, which has seen the country’s fast-growing population become its largest global software market, with in-app revenues of more than $2 billion in the fourth quarter of 2016 alone, according to the WSJ. And yet Apple’s revenues are falling in China and its market share has fallen behind by local Chinese brands, putting the company on the defensive in what is effectively the most important and lucrative market on the planet.

French retailer Carrefour has teamed up with Bookeen, an e-reader company, to release and develop a new e-reader. Surprise. The two companies put out their first Nolim e-reader in 2013 and are now refreshing it. The revamped version features a 6-inch E Ink touchscreen display (1024 x 758 resoultion), 8GB of storage, and Wi-Fi connectivity. It’ll cost €129. Given that Amazon put out its square-shaped Paperwhite last year, Carrefour and Bookeen had to find a way to make theirs sound more interesting. Their answer? A smart case that turns the device on and off when it’s opened and closed. Yup. These are available in five different colors: green, burgundy, orange, dark grey, and light grey. I appreciate the choices, although I’m pretty sure the Nolim is only available in France, so even if you were tempted by these smart cases, you’d have to head to Europe to get them.
Netflix’s original series Orange is the New Black returns June 9th, and the company’s latest teaser is banking on viewers being diehard fans of its other shows. Of course, that can backfire — if you’ve never seen Black Mirror’s “San Junipero” episode, this touching moment between Taystee (Danielle Brooks) and Poussey (Samira Wiley) is likely to cruise right over your head.
The “Orange is the New Black Mirror” gag riffs on an oddly bright episode in an otherwise heavy run of Black Mirror’s third season. For one brief and shining hour, the show trades in its satire and cynicism for a hopeful, uplifting story about two women who fall in love in a digital world. In addition to being the only time I’ve ever described Black Mirror as “hopeful” and “uplifting,” “San Junipero” is also unapologetically soaked in neon and 1980s musical hits.
The teaser doesn’t have much to say about Orange is the New Black’s latest season. Neither do I, aside from some relatable feelings about missing Poussey. It’s doubtful this scene will even appear in the show. (Though it’s openly a fantasy sequence, so it could!) It seems more like a one-off on Netflix’s part. Like the Mystery Science Theater 3000 trailer that featured the first few minutes of Stranger Things, this teaser is smart cross-promotional branding that uses an already-popular property to boost a new release. And it has the insular value of an in-joke. When you have two popular shows at your fingertips, why not smash them together in a goof only your real fans will get? Personally, I think “Unbreakable House of Cards” has a nice ring to it.
The current generation of VR is great, but it's far from perfect. One way VR falls short of the real world is the fixed focus distance. Despite the illusion of depth from the stereo images you're looking at, each image is essentially flat, at a fixed perceived distance from your face, and with a focus selected by the game engine instead of your eyeballs. This can lead to fatigue or worse kinds of discomfort, and also puts limits on developers who need to strive to keep content in a visual sweet spot and a constant focus distance or risk discomfort for their users.
Oculus Research is showing off a solution to this problem at SIGGRAPH this year. They call it a "focal surface display," and have already built a working prototype. The technology puts something called a spatial light modulator (SLM) in between the screen and the headset's eyepiece lenses, and the SLM actively bends light to give a scene a 3D contour. The edges of this "focal surface" aren't very sharp, so they also do some color tricks to correct for the distortion. (If this sounds at all confusing, just check out the video above, it does a great job of explaining what’s going on).
This technique, combined with eye tracking, allows you to look around a scene in VR and focus naturally on different areas at different perceived distances. Oculus Research says it's "a long way out" from a consumer version of this technology, but it's exciting to see how far along they already are in solving this problem. Also, I’m very excited to learn that there’s such a thing as a “spatial light modulator” and I have so many questions.
I went to college at a strange time for the music industry. Napster had already come and gone, digital music stores like iTunes and Amazon Music were growing quickly, and the big streaming sites were just getting popular. While there were file sharing options out there for acquiring new music, there was one site that I turned to anytime I was looking for something new and interesting: Hype Machine. Unfortunately, the site recently announced that it’s turning to crowdfunding to survive, and is hoping that its users will chip in to keep the site running.
The late 2000s marked a time of trial and error for musicians trying to figure out how to market themselves in the digital age, and Hype Machine distinguished itself as a place to discover new music. Anthony Volodkin founded the site in 2005 after realizing that there was a space on the web to link the musical blogosphere together, becoming an early streaming service in its own right. Visitors could search for specific artists or tracks, or simply push play on the site’s music player and listen to the wide range of songs writers were excited about. While sites like Pandora and Spotify later capitalized on streaming music, Hype Machine was a bit more scattershot: it didn’t provide the songs, but instead linked out to sites that were posting MP3s, making the site a great place to discover artists who were on the verge of breaking out.
While Hype Machine is still around, it’s been left behind by the streaming age. In recent weeks, the team posted a plea to the site: their advertising revenue has dried up, and because it’s an independent company without outside investors, it won’t be able to operate. They explained that they’re looking for donations to keep the lights on, hoping that a crowdfunding model will help sustain the site. Their first goal is to get a thousand supporters on the books.
I hope that it works. I visit the site every now and again, usually while I’m in a musical rut, and almost always end up discovering some new artists to throw into my music library. What I’ve always appreciated about the site is that it doesn’t conform to my music tastes. It helps expand them by introducing me to new and exciting bands that I otherwise would have never come across. If Hype Machine shuts down, it’ll be a bit like a local indie record store going out of business: it leaves a hole in a larger community of music lovers, who’ll reluctantly go elsewhere to discover their next favorite band.
Scientists on Twitter are introducing themselves to the famous TV host Bill Nye (of Bill Nye the Science Guy fame), using the hashtag #BillMeetScienceTwitter. Their aim is to spark more collaboration between science celebrities with massive Twitter followings, like Nye or Neil deGrasse Tyson, and the scientists doing their best to communicate their research to the public. And the effort may have worked: on Friday evening, Bill Nye said “greetings” right back.
The Twitter campaign was born out of frustration. It started when Melissa Marquez, a marine biologist, tweeted from a collective Twitter account hosted by a new scientist every week, called @biotweeps.
Bill Nye + Neil deGrasse Tyson = scientists w BIG following… but do they really engage with public or do they just preach?
The question kicked off a conversation about whether these science celebrities could do more to acknowledge the limits of their expertise, or use their enviable platforms to incorporate the diverse voices of experts in the field. The gripe started a similar Twitter campaign back in February. That hashtag, #actuallivingscientist, was inspired by a survey that revealed most respondents couldn’t name an actual living scientist. Those who could, overwhelmingly named men — NDT and Nye among them. (NDT has a PhD in astrophysics, Nye has an undergraduate degree in mechanical engineering.)
“Just because you're a scientist doesn't make you an expert in all of science,” Dani Rabaiotti, a graduate student studying African wild dogs, told The Verge in a direct message on Twitter. In an email to The Verge, Dalton Ludwick, the entomology PhD student who coined the #BillMeetScienceTwitter hashtag, pointed out that considering “scientist” a general broad-scale title can cause problems when an astrophysicist, for example, opines on biology.
If there were ever a species for whom sex hurt, it surely went extinct long ago.
As Rachel Feltman wrote for the Washington Post, this painful-sex tweet NDT sent out last year ignores the vast world of creatures that copulate in ways that cannot feel good — at least, as we humans understand the word. Ducks have terrifying nine-inch corkscrew penises. Male giant squids actually stab their partners when they mate. “If he had consulted a fellow scientist on Twitter, then he may have avoided such a blunder,” Ludwick says of the tweet. (Ludwick says he didn’t have a good reason for directing the hashtag at Nye, rather than deGrasse Tyson.)
But, maybe the problem was that these famous faces of science just didn’t know about  the active science Twitter community. That’s why science Twitter felt it was time to introduce itself, and its very specific areas of expertise.
Hi, @BillNye ! I'm a PhD student working with singing mice, trying to understand how & why they decide when to sing. #BillMeetScienceTwitter pic.twitter.com/p8hIClvK9w
“This is a kind of ‘Hey, we are here, we are all different genders and races, and do all different kinds of science,’” Rabaiotti says. “[If] you need our expertise, just ask.”
Herpetologist David Steen agrees. “They kind of create this idea that it’s just them,” he says. If they were to amplify the voices and Twitter accounts of scientists to their millions of followers, “it’d completely change the science communication landscape,” Steen says. “Many of the scientists on Twitter are there to do science communication, and you can be the best science communicator in the world, [but] it won’t matter if nobody listens.”
Nye appears to have been listening. On Friday evening, less than 24 hours after the campaign started, he gave a nod to the hashtag. And then he began retweeting the scientists who had said hello.
I see you, Science Twitter.  You are the aerodynamic laminar flow beneath my wings.  #BIllMeetScienceTwitter
Greetings Dr. David, You & I and those fishes have a common ancestor — how cool is that? Keep up the good work. https://t.co/16AzrEn4Fy
Hormones passing non genetic traits? You my friend, may change the world. Thank you, thank you! https://t.co/CpCIOd7h0t
Steen says that NDT and Nye do a great job, and he doesn’t begrudge them their success. “I admit that I would love to have that kind of platform,” Steen says. “I don’t necessarily think I’m jealous, but I definitely appreciate what they’ve been able to do.”
Ludwick acknowledges that having so many followers comes with its own stress. “Personally, I do not envy the large platform that Bill and Neil have,” he says. “With so many eyes on you at all times, any mistake is amplified.”
He adds that the hashtag isn’t intended as an attack on Nye or NDT. Instead, the point is to let them know that fellow scientists exist, they have a lot to say, and they’re a great source for accurate scientific information. Nye seems to have heard. So even if your name isn’t Bill or Neil, meet some Twitter scientists:
Hi @BillNye. I got my PhD in molecular biology & write about science x policy x representation. I also like onesies #BillMeetScienceTwitter pic.twitter.com/UMcPN4vguz
Hi @BillNye,I'm Clark. And I use multimedia and environ education to help spread #scicomm about conservation. #BillMeetScienceTwitter pic.twitter.com/Pm8I98Skfh
Hi @BillNye I'm Jen & I study how ppl use their #TEK 2 adapt & respond 2 #climatechange in southern #Africa #BillMeetScienceTwitter pic.twitter.com/fpTUOJYHCv
Hi @BillNye! This is me. #BillMeetScienceTwitter https://t.co/xYmlrMDxOo
@EntoLudwick @drmikeographer @biotweeps Hi @BillNye I'm Dani and I study the effect of climate change on African wild dogs, and wrote a book on animal farts #BillMeetScienceTwitter pic.twitter.com/X3CMB60b3f
Hi @BillNye, I'm Solomon and I study what ancient fishes can tell us about biodiversity, environment, and our genes! #BillMeetScienceTwitter pic.twitter.com/0umgiK7VkX
Hi @BillNye I'm Katherine, I study how hormones are used to pass nongenetic traits to multiple offspring generations #BillMeetScienceTwitter pic.twitter.com/Kr63sj9Cso
Update May 19th, 9:15PM ET: This story has been updated to include Bill Nye’s response to the #BillMeetScienceTwitter campaign.
Update May 22nd, 9:35AM ET: On May 21st, Neil deGrasse Tyson added this comment to our story:
If it matters to anyone, approximately half of the media requests I receive are to comment on science news that falls outside of my professional expertise — and I decline 100% of them. Most recently with CBS News about emergent gene editing CRISPR tools.
And even when the request falls within my expertise, I require network news (and other outlets with resources) to find the people whose research they are reporting on, and then, if still interested, return to me, where I am happy to tie a bow on the significance of the research to us all.
What happens occasionally is, after the interview covers the intended subject, I get asked about other subjects, where I am happy to comment to the extent of my knowledge. I have a stable of scientists who feed me some of the latest developments in their fields, knowing that I will occasionally find myself in situations where I’ll be asked to comment.
Further, my StarTalk Radio Show just spun off a branch of itself called StarTalk Allstars, which showcases science as brought to you by scientists who have boundless enthusiasm for bringing their field to the public, but most of whom did not have a platform to do so. Now in its second season, we are enthusiastic about this.
Additionally, I did not participate in the Science March because it was a ready-made platform for people you may not have heard of yet who have deeply important messages to convey. I will also be unfindable by the press during the Great American Solar Eclipse of August 21, 2017 because, once again, it’s a ready made platform for others to shine — forcing the media to find the thousands of people they might not otherwise reach for, but who have the needed expertise to comment on the event. This includes amateur astronomy groups, local planetarium directors, community college science professors, etc.
Lastly, however delusional this may be to me, or may sound to you, I actually look forward to the day when there are so many science popularizers out there that I can just back away unnoticed, permanently leaving this space that I occupy.
I am, and have always been, a servant of the public’s interest in science.
Respectfully submitted,
Neil deGrasse Tyson, New York City
p.s. As for the sex tweet, it should have said, "where both partners are in pain at the same time while having sex". That was my intended meaning. But the urge to criticize the post was so strong that this intent was never considered. Meanwhile, I have yet to learn of an example in the sexually reproducing world of animals for which this is true. I didn’t purse this in social media. Instead I used the critical commentary as a lesson for myself that for many people the urge to declare something is false exceeds the urge to explore how something can be true. I now word my Tweets in ways that leave no room for more than one interpretation. FYI: Same thing happened with my Helicopter Tweet, in which I declared that a plane with failed engines is a glider, while a helicopter with failed engines is a brick. Helicopter people were quick to criticize that if you shut off your engines, and the propellers are free to spin, you can execute a controlled descent, with the spinning blades providing some needed buoyancy. None of the critics considered the intended case where the blades stopped rotating altogether. -NDT

In April, the Senate voted to roll back the FCC’s internet privacy rules, clearing the way for internet service providers to share browsing histories with third-party advertisers — and provoking a significant backlash along the way. Now, one of the leading forces for the April push has introduced a new bill that could restore some of those restrictions, while adding new ones for web services like Facebook and Google.
Titled the BROWSER Act (Balancing the Rights of Web Surfers Equally and Responsibly), the bill requires opt-in consent for the sharing of all sensitive user information, including web histories. But while the FCC rules only had jurisdiction over telecoms, the BROWSER Act’s rules would apply equally to telecoms and web companies, forcing companies like Comcast and Google to play by the same data-sharing rules or face penalty from the FTC.
The bill would also prevent lower levels of government from passing stricter privacy rules, a practice that’s already drawn support in some cities and states.
Notably, the bill was introduced by Martha Blackburn (R-TN), who also introduced the bill to repeal the FCC rules in April. Blackburn told Axios that her motivation was to bring web companies (also called edge providers) under the same rules as telecoms
"What we know is that when people talk about, 'I don't like pop ups that I get, and I don't like this and I don't like that,' that's activity that comes from the edge providers, not the ISPs," the Senator said.
The woman whose headphones caught fire during a February flight from Beijing, China to Melbourne, Australia was wearing a pair of AAA-powered Beats, according to the Australian Associated Press. What’s more, the report states that a representative for Apple, which bought Beats in 2014, told the woman’s lawyer that the company’s investigation into the incident blames the use of a “third-party battery" for the cause of the explosion, though it’s unclear what that means. Apple has not responded to a request for comment.
The woman, whose name has not been released, was asleep during the flight when “a loud explosion” was heard by other passengers, according to a March report from the Australian Transport Safety Bureau. “As I went to turn around I felt burning on my face,” she told the ATSB. She then threw the headphones on the floor, and flight attendants flushed them with water.
Apple doesn’t currently make headphones powered by AAA batteries, so if the headphones in question were indeed made by Beats, they were likely an older pair.
When Microsoft announced Windows 10 S, one of the main distinctions from vanilla Windows 10 was that only Windows Store applications would run on the education-focused OS. But it turns out when Microsoft said that “applications are delivered via the Windows Store,” it didn’t mean that all Windows Store applications would work on 10 S, as noted by Lilliputing.
In a blog post on MSDN today, Rich Turner, a Senior Product Manager at Microsoft, clarified that certain applications won’t be allowed to run on Windows 10 S, including “all command-line apps, shells and consoles.”
Regrettably, that means that Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, and Fedora — the Linux distros that are coming to the Windows Store — won’t be permitted to run on Windows 10 S. As Turner explains, the Linux distros, even though distributed through the store, have more access to the system than a standard Universal Windows Program on the store — essentially, they’re command-line tools that work outside the closed sandbox that Microsoft limits most Windows Store apps to.
According to Turner’s post, Windows 10 S is primarily aimed at “non-technical users” who don’t want or need that kind access, and specifically isn’t designed for app developers or IT administrators who need more advanced control over their machines. To be clear: there’s no technical reason that the Linux distros from the store can’t run on Windows 10 S, aside from the choice by Microsoft to limit that option, and anyone running a 10 S device that chooses to upgrade to a full version of Windows 10 will immediately be able to install the Windows Store-distributed versions.
Shooting professional quality video with a drone is not an easy task, and often requires multiple human operators. Researchers at MIT’s Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL) think they’ve found a way to take humans out of the operation part of the equation altogether. The team teased a system this week that they plan to unveil at a conference later this month in which filmmakers can set certain parameters and then let the drone do all the work.
The group calls the system “real-time motion planning for aerial videography,” and it lets a director define basic parameters of a shot, like how tight or how wide the frame should be, or the position of the subject within that frame. They can also change those settings on the fly and the drone will adjust how it’s filming accordingly. And, of course, the drone can dynamically avoid obstacles.
While a few consumer drones like the DJI Mavic Pro already have object recognition and tracking, MIT’s project sets itself apart by adding in more robust versions of those technologies and a vast amount of granular control. The system is constantly measuring and estimating the velocities of the objects moving around the drone, and it does this 50 times a second.
The researchers say that a director using their system would be able to weigh certain variables differently so the drone knows what to prioritize in a shot, too. From the MIT release:
Unless the actors are extremely well-choreographed, the distances between them, the orientations of their bodies, and their distance from obstacles will vary, making it impossible to meet all constraints simultaneously. But the user can specify how the different factors should be weighed against each other. Preserving the actors’ relative locations onscreen, for instance, might be more important than maintaining a precise distance, or vice versa. The user can also assign a weight to minimize occlusion, ensuring that one actor doesn’t end up blocking another from the camera.
It’s a cool idea that’s both reminiscent and seemingly a natural extension of the virtual camera work that directors like James Cameron helped pioneer and others (like Gareth Edwards and Lucasfilm) have been using ever since. It’s definitely not ready for that kind of work, judging from CSAIL’s video. But it’s another important wrinkle in the way new hardware and software is changing filmmaking, big or small.
Fresh out of my export folder is a brand new episode of The Vergecast. This week, because of the business that is Google I/O, we recorded our episode Friday morning. This resulted in Nilay’s attempt to bring a morning show vibe to episode 257, despite Dieter, Adi, Natt, and Paul’s (and my) disapproval of sound effects. There was a lot to discuss thanks to Google’s developer conference, so here it is! Enjoy!
06:43 - Google is finally replacing its bad emoji blobs in Android O
13:59 - Google Assistant is on the iPhone now
24:41 - Google wants the Assistant to be everywhere — but first it needs to conquer the iPhone
31:46 - Android O beta launches
37:40 - Google is adding Kotlin as an official programming language for Android development
45:37 - Google AR / VR
1:01:25 - Ford update brings Android Auto and Apple CarPlay to its 2016 fleet
1:06:50  - New Surface Pro leak confirms Microsoft's hatred for USB-C
1:07:28 - AMD is bringing its new Ryzen processors to laptops later this year
1:08:15 - FCC votes to begin overturning net neutrality
If you enjoyed this podcast, there’s more you can listen to! There’s Ctrl-Walt-Delete with Walt Mossberg and Nilay Patel, which dives deep into tech. We have Verge Extras, which experiments with audio and podcasting in new and interesting ways. You might also want to check out Recode Decode, hosted by Kara Swisher, and Too Embarrassed to Ask hosted by Lauren Goode! You can find them all in iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, and anywhere you get your podcasts nowadays.
In 1996, Battle.net — Blizzard’s online gaming service — launched alongside Diablo offering players the opportunity to socialize with their friends in-game. Now, after over 20 years, and over 20 games and expansions, Battle.net will be home to its first non-Blizzard game with the launch of Destiny 2. What seems like Activision Blizzard’s first step towards making a competitor to Valve's Steam is likely anything but that. To understand why, you have to look at what Battle.net is and what that means for Destiny 2, not what Destiny 2 means for Battle.net.
When Battle.net first launched, it was a tool to let Diablo players connect and play together online. It offered rudimentary social features, and the ability for players to join or host Diablo multiplayer servers. With each subsequent game Blizzard released, the developer continued to expand on what Battle.net was capable. Ladder ranking and copy protection (Starcraft), server-side character data storage (Diablo 2), and anonymous matchmaking for players of similar skill ranking (Warcraft 3). Battle.net 2.0, which debuted in 2009, brought all of these features under one application, giving players of World of Warcraft, or any Blizzard game, the ability to communicate with friends across games, servers, or characters.
The release of Diablo 3 for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in 2013 allowed Battle.net to link with consoles for the first time, although in a very limited capacity. Then in 2014, with the release of Hearthstone, Battle.net expanded its connectivity to iOS and Android as well. That same year, Bungie released Destiny on PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, and Xbox One. Being a console exclusive let Destiny leverage Sony's PlayStation Network and Microsoft's Xbox Live services as a way to handle much of the heavy lifting for player communication and social tools. Important features like voice chat, friends lists, and party systems are already built into those services.
With Destiny 2 coming to PC, there aren't many digital distribution platforms that can do what PSN and Xbox Live can. Electronic Arts’s Origin and Ubisoft's Uplay are obviously not options since they are run by rival publishers. Steam would normally be the de facto choice for games not published by EA or Ubisoft.
However, a unique set of circumstances make Battle.net not only possible but a better solution for Bungie to use on PC. For one thing, Destiny 2’s publisher Activision, and Blizzard are both subsidiaries of the same company, Activision Blizzard. So while the two might be separate from each other, it certainly makes it easier for Blizzard to provide this service to a game within their company than one being made outside of it. But utilizing Battle.net also provides Bungie all of the functionality it needs for Destiny 2 now and in the future.
For Blizzard, Battle.net has been a selling point for its games. It’s a service that can be tailored to fit the needs and unique features of each new game. Steam, on the other hand, isn’t able to provide that sort of bespoke functionality for each of the 11,000 plus games that are available on the service.
Battle.net also not only gives Destiny 2 the same functionality as its console counterparts, but it also provides the potential to link the console and PC versions together. This was something Valve incorporated into the PS3 version of Portal 2, even allowing PC and PS3 players to play co-operatively together, but nothing came of any further Steam integration with console games.
Even if Bungie doesn’t want console and PC players to play against each other, it still creates the option to potentially let players move between the different platforms. This became major feature for the console versions of Diablo 3. It let Xbox 360 players move their characters to Xbox One, and PS3 players transfer to PS4, and for a short time it even let players transfer between Sony’s and Microsoft’s platforms. Being able to do something like that with whatever the next generation of console hardware ends up being, or even letting players transfer to PC or vice versa, would be a huge feature for Destiny 2, providing a persistent platform for players.
Of course, Battle.net is obviously more profitable for Activision Blizzard, since Steam and other digital stores would take a cut from every sale. Which makes it easier to justify porting such a large and costly game to produce like Destiny 2. That said, it’s unclear whether or not other non-Blizzard games might be released on the platform in the future. Blizzard says that it’s “potentially evaluating needs or opportunities for future Activision games.”
Destiny 2 on Battle.net was a surprising announcement -- but maybe the biggest surprise is how well they fit together.
This week, Google announced a major expansion of its Daydream virtual reality platform. Daydream, currently only available on niche Android phones, is rolling out to the Samsung Galaxy S8 and S8 Plus this summer. That means that millions of smartphone owners will soon have two huge tech companies trying to sell them VR headsets.
Google is offering the $79 Daydream View, which you’ll need to launch Daydream apps on your phone. Samsung sells the $129 Gear VR, which lets you access Oculus Home, a platform created by Facebook-owned VR company Oculus. Both headsets work the same way: after you clip a phone into the headset, you can interact with VR experiences using a small handheld remote. But they look and feel very different, and each has a completely separate app ecosystem.
Unlike picking between two expensive desktop headsets like the Oculus Rift and HTC Vive, buying a mobile headset isn’t a huge investment — most of the cost is in the phone itself. Retailers and manufacturers also love offering VR headsets as sweeteners, so you may end up getting one (or maybe both) for free.
But if you’re going to buy a Gear VR or Daydream View, which one is a better use of your money? We’re here to answer that question.
You don’t want to order anything right now — it’ll likely be a couple of months at least until the update. But based on the current app ecosystem, you’ll find more to do on a Gear VR this summer, outweighing its higher price. It’s worth considering getting Daydream too, though, especially as its library expands. Keep an eye out for sales, and you may get both at a deep discount or completely free. And if you’re not wild about either one, you can hold off without feeling too much fear of missing out.
For the rationale behind this verdict, read on.
The Daydream View is $50 cheaper, for one thing. It’s more compact and less intimidating than the Gear VR, and it’s quicker and easier to insert your phone and get started. You’ll get access to YouTube VR, which is one of the default locations for posting 360-degree video. (You can access YouTube videos through Samsung’s Gear VR web browser, but it’s a lot less convenient.)
Daydream also connects you to a Google ecosystem that you’re probably already invested in. You don’t have to maintain a separate Oculus account, and Daydream lets you launch VR experiences directly from your home screen instead of going through another app. Daydream also makes it very easy to launch web-based VR experiences, and its VR version of Chrome will let you bookmark them on a desktop and come back to them later in VR.
Games and apps. Daydream boasts of its fast-growing catalog, but it’s still small compared to the Gear VR’s offerings, and it’s unlikely to reach parity by this summer. While it doesn’t have YouTube, there is a Facebook 360-degree video app. And unsurprisingly for a Facebook-owned company, Oculus has a more robust social environment so far, with shared rooms and unusually cool avatars.
The Gear VR hardware also has benefits. Its straps are less elegant but fit on your head more snugly, and it’s got a focus dial for different pupil distances, which can make the image clearer for some people. Its side trackpad also offers a failsafe if your controller runs out of battery, an issue I’ve had with the rechargeable Daydream remote.
The Gear VR isn’t an intrinsically better product or platform, but for now, you’ll find more to do on it, unless you’re specifically invested in YouTube’s 360-degree video. When you’re in a price range between “impulse purchase” and “major investment,” it’s worth paying more for something that will likely get the most use in the short term.
Mobile VR headsets are primarily entertainment devices, not vital productivity tools. And the entertainment they offer is fun, but it’s less sophisticated than what you’ll find on more mature mediums, and there’s not nearly as much of it. One of the most popular kinds of content — 360-degree video — is available outside VR, too.
Mobile VR headsets are also less comfortable than desktop ones, because you’re putting the weight of an entire phone on the front of your face. The controllers work impressively well considering the technical challenges involved, but they provide a limited range of motion.
I’d encourage anyone who’s interested in VR and has a Galaxy S8 to get a mobile headset. But it won’t hurt to wait a year or two and see how things develop. Google just opened submissions for Daydream’s Google Play section a few months ago, so the app selection may look very different by then. Besides, in the next generation of VR, the best mobile headsets might not even need phones.
AMD already had a huge win this year with its all-new Ryzen CPUs. Now the question is whether AMD can pull off another upset in the GPU space. AMD has been promising its new "Vega" architecture for over a year now, and it's time to see the results. Well, it's almost time.
This week AMD announced the Radeon Vega Frontier Edition, a high-end card that's aimed at professionals and workstations, not necessarily gamers. In fact, AMD explicitly suggests gamers wait "a little while longer" for a Radeon RX Vega card that will be cheaper and gaming-optimized.
The Radeon Vega Frontier Edition has 64 compute units, roughly 25 teraflops of half precision compute performance, and an enormous 16GB of HBM2 (High Bandwidth Memory, the sequel). The card has a huge performance advantage over existing professional AMD cards, even though it's built with the same 14nm process. The new memory has a lot to do with it, but Vega also adds other architecture optimizations designed to improve common workflows. Anandtech calculates the boost clock speed is around 1.59GHz, which also probably helps. According to AMD, it's the fastest graphics card in the world.
For instance, AMD claims the Vega Frontier Edition is 30 percent faster than Nvidia's Tesla P100 at machine learning jobs, and that it has a similar advantage over the current "world's fastest video card," Nvidia's Titan Xp, with popular CAD applications.
Of course, performance wins don't matter much when your card isn't on the market yet — Nvidia's Pascal architecture has been available for over a year, and AMD is definitely playing catchup.
The card will ship in late June, and we're supposed to get a few more details middle of June — like a price tag, presumably, and power requirements. The rest of the Vega lineup, built for regular humans who want to do this silly thing called "play video games," is supposed to hit sometime this summer.
Vine as we once knew it has already been shut down, but unfortunately that doesn’t mean the information you provided to the Twitter-owned company is secure. Twitter just sent out a mass email to Vine users alerting them of a “bug” that briefly allowed third parties to view email addresses and phone numbers associated with Vine accounts. If you get the email, your information was likely exposed — though that doesn’t necessarily mean it’s being misused by anyone. The company makes no mention of any passwords having been exposed during the window that it claims lasted “less than 24 hours.” Vine has also published a Medium post on the issue.
The bug affected the Vine Archive, which the company describes as a “time capsule” (perhaps graveyard?) of all Vines that were uploaded with the service. The Vine Archive remains viewable from web browsers, although no new uploads are supported; Vine’s smartphone app was repurposed into a camera app and can no longer browse the defunct social network.
Twitter is urging users who receive the email to remain alert for suspicious emails or text messages. The full email follows below.
Dear Vine account holder,
We are writing to let you know that we were alerted to — and immediately fixed — a bug that affected the Vine Archive for less than 24 hours. This bug had the potential to expose the email address and phone number associated with a Vine account to third parties under certain circumstances.
In our investigation, we discovered that the email address and phone number linked to your account were exposed. We want to emphasize that this information can't directly be used to access your account, and we have no information indicating that it has been misused. We take these incidents very seriously, and we're sorry this occurred.
As a security best practice, we recommend that you be cautious if you receive emails or text messages from unknown senders. Please keep in mind that Vine will only send you communications from @twitter.com, and we will never send emails with attachments or request your password by email.
For more tips on how to avoid fake emails and stay safe online, read the Twitter Help Center and the FTC's guide on phishing.
- Vine Support
One week after it first hit, researchers are getting a better handle on how the WannaCry ransomware spread so quickly — and judging from the early figures, the story seems to be almost entirely about Windows 7.
According to data released today by Kaspersky Lab, roughly 98 percent of the computers affected by the ransomware were running some version of Windows 7, with less than one in a thousand running Windows XP. 2008 R2 Server clients were also hit hard, making up just over 1 percent of infections.
#WannaCry infection distribution by the Windows version. Worst hit - Windows 7 x64. The Windows XP count is insignificant. pic.twitter.com/5GhORWPQij
Windows 7 is still by far the most common version of Windows, running on roughly four times as many computers as Windows 10 worldwide. Since more recent versions of Windows aren’t vulnerable to WannaCry, it makes sense that most of the infections would hit computers running 7. Still, the stark disparity emphasizes how small of a role Windows XP seems to have played in spreading the infection, despite early concerns about the outdated operating system.
The new figures also bear on the debate over Microsoft’s patching practices, which generated significant criticism in the wake of the attack. Microsoft had released a public patch for Windows 7 months before the attack, but the patch for Windows XP was only released as an emergency measure after the worst of the damage had been done. The patch was available earlier to paying Custom Support customers, but most XP users were left vulnerable, each unpatched computer a potential vector to spread the ransomware further. Still, Kaspersky’s figures suggest that unpatched XP devices played a relatively small role in the spread of the ransomware.
Some help is already arriving for systems infected by WannaCry. Because of sloppy coding, researchers have found that private system encryption keys can often be recovered from infected machines, allowing users to undo the damage done by the ransomware. A researcher from Quark Security has published an automated tool to manage that process, which should work for Windows 7, XP, Vista, and other affected versions.

Late last year, we showed you the Arc Hub, a circular USB-C hub we hoped would help improve the pitiful plight of third-party USB-C hubs currently on the market. After owning a 12-inch MacBook for two years now, I can tell you the only reliable option for a USB-C hub has been Apple’s $69 USB-C Digital AV Multiport Adapter, which only comes with a HDMI and USB-A port, alongside the pass through USB-C port for charging. It’s not ideal.
Thankfully, the Arc Hub looks to be the answer — at least in the short term — to the USB-C hub problem.
The Arc Hub, designed by Bourge Design, is the best USB-C hub available right now, although it’s not perfect. It’s difficult to use on the go, and with only one usable USB-C port (and only for charging) it will probably be outdated in a couple years. But if you need a USB-C hub today, this is your best bet.
The Arc Hub features two USB-C ports (one to connect to your device, one for pass-through charging), two USB 3.0 ports, HDMI port, MiniDisplayPort, and an SD card reader all contained in a circular aluminum enclosure.
Now, at first glance, the circular design seems like it would be an annoying hassle with cords sprayed around everywhere, but in use it actually hasn’t been an issue at all, thanks to the fact that all of the ports are housed on the left side of the Hub.
My daily setup is a 34-inch ultra-wide monitor at 1440p, an external hard drive, an iPhone charger, and my MacBook charger. With Apple’s adapter, I couldn’t have the external drive and the iPhone charger plugged in at the same time, but the Arc Hub makes it easier. And thanks to the circular design, the Macbook cable points to the back of my desk, the iPhone charger to the front, and everything else to the left side keeping the cord clutter away from my work space.
Data transfer speeds are great, the SD card reader — consistently the biggest flaw in third party USB-C hubs — has worked quickly and flawlessly for me, transferring just over 4GB of photos in under a minute. The HDMI 1.2 port supports 4K monitors at 30hz, while the MiniDisplay Port 1.4 supports 4K displays at 60hz. Dual monitors are supported via the two ports, but only one monitor can run at 4K (the other will be downgraded to 1080p).
My favorite feature of the Arc Hub is that it doesn’t overheat. I’ve had multiple USB-C hubs overheat to obscene temperatures while plugged into my MacBook, and the Arc Hub barely gets warm. Now, that isn’t really a feature at all, but it conveys how truly awful the current crop of third-party USB-C hubs have been for the past two years.
The biggest downside of the Arc Hub is the lack of USB-C ports you can use for anything but charging. USB-C is the future, and if you have a phone like the Samsung Galaxy S8 and you want to charge it while your computer is connected, you’re out of luck (unless you get an adapter). USB-C monitors are also a no go.
At a certain point you just run out of space for ports, and the Arc Hub already has seven, so maybe it wasn’t an oversight. But just one extra USB-C port would make this the perfect desk hub.
The other issue is portability. The Arc Hub is quite small and easy to carry around, but the circular design finally backfires if you don’t have a desk to place it on. Working with the Arc Hub with your laptop sitting on your legs for example, is an extreme challenge. The Hub is too heavy to dangle in the air like Apple’s adapter can, and the port layout is more challenging to use without a flat surface.
Despite those negatives, I would still have to recommend the Arc Hub for anyone who doesn’t have a USB-C monitor or doesn’t spend the majority of their time without access to a desk. The Arc Hub is currently available for pre-order for $119, with orders being delivered by early July. Once pre-orders are completed, the Arc Hub will cost $134 when it’s officially released in late July.
The seed bank designed to preserve the world’s crops and plants in the event of global disaster isn’t prepared to withstand the greatest global disaster facing our planet: global warming. Melting permafrost on the Norwegian island of Spitsbergen, where the Svalbard Global Seed Vault is located, has seeped into the seed bank, raising questions of how the structure will be able to survive in the future as the Earth keeps warming.
The seed vault is built in an abandoned Arctic coal mine, deep inside a mountain. It contains about a million packets of seeds from almost every country in the world, representing “the most diverse collection of food crop seeds.” In 2015, the ongoing civil war in Syria prompted researchers in the Middle East to withdraw some seeds to replace those previously stored in a gene bank in war-torn Aleppo.
The structure was built underneath the permafrost so it could be “a fail-safe seed storage facility, built to stand the test of time — and the challenge of natural or man-made disasters,” as the seed bank’s website says. But oh, the irony. Unusually warm temperatures in the winter have caused rain, and the permafrost has been melting. “It was not in our plans to think that the permafrost would not be there and that it would experience extreme weather like that,” Hege Njaa Aschim, from the Norwegian government, which owns the vault, told The Guardian.
Fortunately, the water hasn’t flooded the vault itself. It only got to the entrance of the tunnel, where it froze. (The seeds are stored at minus 0.4 degrees Fahrenheit.) But the incident has raised questions over the durability of a seed bank that was supposed to operate without people’s intervention.
The vault managers are now waterproofing the facility and digging trenches to channel melt and rainwater away, according to The Guardian. They’ve also installed pumps in case the vault floods again. “We have to find solutions. It is a big responsibility and we take it very seriously. We are doing this for the world,” Åsmund Asdal at the Nordic Genetic Resource Centre, which operates the seed vault, told The Guardian. “This is supposed to last for eternity.”
Few apps have made a more valiant effort to rescue us from indolence than Things, the to-do list app for Mac and iOS from German software developer Cultured Code. When it debuted as one of the original iPhone apps in 2008, Things was notable for its strong compatibility with Getting Things Done, the popular productivity system. Its original incarnation won an Apple Design Award, and by 2014 Things had sold 3 million copies of its iPhone app alone.
But in the intervening years, Things has come to look a little dated. Visually, it hadn’t quite shed the skeuomorphism of older versions of iOS. And while other to-do apps were focused on collaboration — encouraging small teams to subscribe to premium versions that let them delegate tasks to one another — Things remained a resolutely single-player game.
In 2014, when I evaluated the best to-do list apps on the market, I held off on including Things after the team told me they were hard at work on the next version of their app: Things 3. They had been working on it for two years — and would continue working on it for the next three.
And so when Things 3 finally arrived this week, for a certain kind of productivity nerd, it felt like a major event. I’ve been using the app on Mac and iOS for the past week, and have generally been impressed — despite a handful of flaws that will likely be deal-breakers for many. But mostly I want to talk about three things Things 3 does extremely well — and ought to inspire makers of to-do list apps the world over to imitate or improve on them.
The upcoming view. One of the chief design decisions the maker of a to-do list app has to make is how to display your upcoming tasks. OmniFocus, perhaps the most overpowered of all to-do lists, offers a “Forecast” view that shows you the number of tasks you have coming up over the next week. Todoist, which has been my to-do app of choice for the past two years, offers both “today” and “next 7 days” views that list your upcoming tasks in order.
Things 3 builds on this idea, ingeniously, by integrating your calendar. Connect to your Google account or other calendar service and you’ll see your appointments for the day, followed by any tasks that are due. “Today” shows you a single day; “Upcoming” offers you an infinite scroll into the future with whatever you have planned. A combined calendar, to-do list, and reminders app is something of a holy grail in the productivity world; Things 3 gets extremely close to realizing it.
Project completion circles. How close is your project to being complete? Other to-do list apps require you to look inside a project and estimate for yourself how much work it will take to perform the next steps. Things 3 answers this with a lovely visual metaphor: circles next to every project that fill in as you complete tasks. If a project has five parts and you’ve completed four of them, you’ll see a tiny sliver left to be done. It’s gimmicky, but I appreciated being able to see how close I was to finishing a given project at a glance.
The magic plus button. A good to-do list app makes it dead simple to create new tasks, and Things 3 has a fun tool to do just that. Cultured Code calls it the “magic plus button,” and it appears in a big blue circle at the bottom right-hand corner of the app. But it doesn’t just stay there: you can tap and drag it up and down, and side to side, and where it lands changes what it creates. Move it to the inbox and you can create a task without a due date there. Slide it up and you can create a new task within a larger project. Or drag it into your project list to create a new project immediately.
There’s other great stuff here, too. You can set a task to “evening” — a useful designation for all the stuff you’re saving for after work. “Anytime” and “Someday” lists encourage you to daydream. And the individual tasks cards are designed with beautiful minimalism.
So what are the potential deal-breakers? One, Things requires you to live entirely within the Mac ecosystem — if you’re away from your devices, you can’t even access your work from the web. Two, Things is still for individuals — there’s no easy way to collaborate with colleagues on your projects. Three, there’s no natural-language input in the task entry window. On many to-do apps, including Todoist, you can type in something like “finish assignment by 2P Wednesday” and the app will attach the appropriate due date. On Things, you can only access natural-language input after clicking the date picker. Then there’s Things’ business model, which also feels a bit dated: instead of paying a single subscription fee to access all of the companies’ apps, you have to buy the iPhone, iPad, Mac, apps separately. (They are $10, $20, and $50 respectively.)
Despite those faults, I’ve switched over to Things to manage my tasks, at least for now. And who can blame me? No piece of software is more tempting than a brand-new to-do-list. Installed on your phone, it becomes a wonderland of possibility — a blank canvas on which you can project your wildest dreams, and through the power of software achieve them. Never mind that your determination will falter. That the tasks you entered so lovingly will refuse to do themselves, and will instead glare at you from your to-do app, making a mockery of your dreams. Never mind that you will delete it, and resolve to better yourself the only way you know how: by returning to the App Store, and buying a new to-do app.
Things is now available for iPhone, iPad, and Mac.
Correction, 3:44 p.m.: This post has been updated to reflect that natural-language input is available in the date picker.
Design showcase Sight Unseen Offsite kicks off today in New York City, and among the featured exhibitors was Austin-based startup Twyla, an online marketplace specializing in licensed art prints. For first-time buyers who are intimidated by art auctions, or put off by dropping an insane amount of cash for an original painting, Twyla offers limited-edition prints individually numbered and signed by artists.
Inside the Twyla booth were artworks featured on the site, and in front of each print was a Samsung Gear VR. Upon putting it on, the viewer can enter a room designed around the concept of the artwork, each of them highlighting one of this year’s top interior trends chosen by Sight Unseen curators.
The virtual reality rooms were created by artist Tom Hancocks, whose art prints are also exclusively featured on the marketplace. Here’s some stills of the 360 experience:
Of course, any print looks good if imagined in an ultra-cool virtual reality room that doesn’t exist in real life. These swanky VR rooms can’t substitute the actual experience of living with the artwork in your own home, which is just fine — Twyla offers $30 trials  where you can live with their print for 30 days, with some cities even offering professional installation. If you decide to keep the artwork, you can just pay off the remaining balance of the piece.
If you’d like to check out the VR rooms for yourself, in addition to some incredible design displays from independent studios, Sight Unseen Offsite is happening Friday, May 19th to Monday, May 22nd at 100 Avenue of the Americas. Admission is $10. For our first-hand experience of the exhibition, check out our Instagram Story!
Some of the biggest news to come out of Google I/O this week was that Google Assistant is coming to iOS, looking to take a shot at Siri, Apple’s own entrenched AI assistant. While Assistant has been available on Android for a while now, how does the AI assistant stack up against Siri when its forced to go head-to-head on Apple’s far more limited playing field? We put the two head-to-head.
One of the most important parts of any AI assistant is how easy it is to access. One of the biggest selling points of Amazon’s Echo hardware is the always-listening feature that lets Alexa always be on hand to respond to any queries or commands. On Android, Assistant has deep, OS-level hooks that make it more more accessible and functional. But on iOS, things are a little tougher.
Siri: On Apple’s hardware, Siri still has a massive home court advantage when it comes to actually starting the digital assistant. Namely, Siri is baked into iOS on a core level — its accessible from anywhere, whether you’re in an app or at your lock-screen by simply holding down the home button. Siri is also always listening, too, and can be activated anytime through a “Hey, Siri” command on newer iPhones (although the feature, like much of Siri these days, feels largely half-baked.)
Assistant: Google is making a big play here with Assistant, but it’s fighting an uphill battle here with the inherent limitations Apple has on iOS. That means that Assistant lives in the Assistant app. But Google is doing its best to put Assistant in as many places as possible: there’s an Assistant widget to quick launch the app, which is accessible from both the notification shade, the lock screen, and the home screen. Plus, there’s a 3D Touch action to also start Assistant.
Unlike when Siri first launched back in 2011, AI assistants can’t just work with a single device anymore. Working on an iPhone is one thing — but working across an entire ecosystem is a whole other ballgame.
Siri: The best thing that can be said about Apple’s assistant is that it exists on a variety of hardware platforms. If you’ve got an Apple Watch, a Mac, or an Apple TV, you can use Siri on it, but that’s about the extent of it. Siri on different platforms largely exist as separate things — you can’t use the native Siri on your iPhone to play a song on your Apple TV, for example, or use Siri on your Apple TV to make a call.
Controlling smart home utilities with Siri only works if manufacturers support Apple’s HomeKit, and you’ll need either an Apple TV or iPad to serve as a hub. Plus, you’re still locked strictly to Apple’s ecosystem — if Cupertino doesn’t make hardware for it (like, say, an Amazon Echo-like speaker), then you can’t use Siri on it.
Assistant: Obviously, just like Siri works with Apple stuff, Assistant works with Google stuff. That means Chromecast, Android phones, and of course, Google Home. But one of the announcements to Assistant at I/O was that third-party hardware manufacturers would be able to integrate Assistant into their own devices, which means that there could be a much larger ecosystem for Assistant in the near future.
Google also showed off how Assistant can work across multiple devices — using a Chromecast to display visual results from a Google Home, suggesting a more universal experience than Siri. How that will work in practice is still somewhat unclear, given that the feature doesn’t seem to be available yet (at least through Assistant on an iPhone.) But it speaks to Google’s larger ambitions of having a unified Assistant platform across all devices.
Of course, an assistant is only useful if it can actually assist you with things. And at this point, there's basic table stakes that both platforms are able to accomplish — basic queries of the weather and sports scores, calendar reminders, alarms, etc. That said, there are clear differences between the two in terms of the extent of their abilities.
Siri: Siri is able to do more advanced queries like tell you the time difference between two cities or what the price of gasoline is in San Fransisco, typically drawing on resources like Wolfram Alpha and Wikipedia to answer, but in practice I’ve generally find it easier and more reliable to just Google the question.
And most of Siri's functional advantages — things like opening up apps or sending iMessages — stem from the aforementioned platform advantage than any intrinsic usefulness to Siri itself.
Assistant: Even with the limitations of iOS, Assistant gets a lot done. You can play videos in YouTube, add reminders and events through Google Calendar, and send emails through Gmail. Plus, there’s the usual AI assistant queries of stocks, the weather, and maps that’s common to both Siri and Assistant. Google has also tried its best to offer messaging and call support on iOS, but it can only get so far — both will get you 99 percent of the way there before passing you back to Apple’s apps for actually sending the message or placing a call. Meanwhile, things like setting an alarm just aren’t possible with Assistant on iOS, and others — like playing music, which shunts you over to YouTube — work, but are a bit of a hack.
But even putting aside those similarities, Assistant has the entire power of Google’s Knowledge Graph behind it, which means that the breadth of information it can answer is wider than Siri’s. Also, Assistant just seems to work better in my experience when it comes to both understanding words and responding quickly.
That said, some of the more impressive features of Assistant from Google I/O simply aren’t here yet. The impressive Google Lens augmented reality camera, or even simpler demos like the interactive Panera order seen on stage aren’t part of the app yet.
Amazon has really led the way with developer supporter when it comes to Alexa, with over 10,000 different third-party skills available. Siri and Assistant both have some third-party support, but both companies could stand to take a page from Amazon's book here.
Siri: Apple finally added third-party developer support for Siri with iOS 10, but it's still limited — developers can’t make Siri integrations for mapping or music apps, an intentional limitation that forces you to use Apple’s own Music and Maps services, even if you prefer Google and Spotify. Developers for Siri extensions are instead limited to seven categories of integration: ride book, messaging, photo search, payments, VoIP calling, workouts, and climate and radio. So even if you’d wanted to build a Siri extension to play Jeopardy or tell you how many people are in space right now, you can’t.
Assistant: Google also took things slowly when it came to building out Google Assistant and Google Home's third-party abilities, but at I/O this year it opened the door for developers to make extensions for Assistant on both Home and phones. Plus, those actions won’t be targeted to specific devices — rather, if your hardware can support the skill (which could, say, require a screen to function), it’ll be able to access it. But it’s up to developers to actually build out the ecosystem.
Answering questions and search is only half the equation, though. AIs also need to be able to actively do things for you, make your life easier. Neither platform is outstanding at this yet, but it’s definitely something to keep an eye on in the future both digital assistants continue to mature.
Siri: Siri is a mixed bag when it comes to actually accomplishing tasks for you. In theory, you can look up restaurant reservations or movie times through OpenTable or Fandango, but it will still fall on you to actually complete the task yourself. Other things, like booking an Uber can be done entirely through Siri, as can sending money through Square Cash or Venmo, but that’s pretty much as far as it can go.
Assistant: Like Siri, Assistant is also limited when it comes to actually doing things for you, at least for now, and some things that Siri can do — like summon an Uber — aren’t on Assistant for now. But, as mentioned before, Google has high hopes for what can eventually be done with assistant, like sending flowers or ordering lunch, but right now things are still extremely limited on an iPhone. But if Google (and the third party developers it needs to jump on board) can actually ship some of the integrations shown off at I/O this year, Assistant could get a huge leg up on Siri.
Directly comparing any third party AI assistant — whether from Google, Microsoft, or another company — to Siri is always going to be a tough proposition, given how locked down iOS is on a system level and Apple’s tight control over the platform.
As things stand right now, between Siri’s advantages when it comes to native integration to things like messaging and music, along with the system-wide availability that makes it accessible at any time means that in most cases, it’s easier to use Apple’s assistant. While Assistant does clearly best Siri when it comes to overall knowledge and support for Google services, (including Maps) the current implementation just isn’t so dramatically better at these tasks that it’s worth the extra inconvenience of working around Apple’s sandboxing.
That said, Google does have some seriously impressive ambitions for Assistant that could shift the scales in its favor. But those features aren’t here yet, and for what Assistant can do on iOS now, Siri — while not great — is good enough.
Let’s get one thing out of the way: no matter what movies like Limitless claim, humans use more than 10 percent of our brains. This isn’t a surprise to a lot of people, but there’s more to the science of our cognitive potential than knowing that it can’t be true that 90 percent of our gray matter is inactive.
The claim has been around for a long time, but where did it come from, anyway? And why are we so eager to believe it? How much of our brain do we really use — and is there a limit to what we can learn?
The Verge spoke to University College London neuroscientist Sophie Scott to clear up some of these questions.
Back in 1991, when David Lynch and Mark Frost’s groundbreaking TV melodrama Twin Peaks was cancelled, it left viewers with a lot of unanswered questions. Some of them were central to the series’ dreamy, surreal mysteries. Others were more immediate, and were deliberately left dramatically hanging in the series finale, which left so many characters apparently dead, and protagonist Dale Cooper possessed or outright replaced by an evil spirit. Fans hoped to see Cooper’s story resolved in the subsequent movie, 1992’s Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me, but that film turned out to be a prequel that left the series largely unaddressed.
So speculation is high over how Lynch and Frost’s new Twin Peaks will take up the threads of the original TV show. The 18-episode limited series, which begins with a two-hour premiere on Showtime this Sunday, May 21, is expressly intended as a sequel that takes up the action of the original 1990s run, 25 years later. But that doesn’t mean it’ll answer fans’ longstanding questions. Lynch has always been an oblique storyteller who’s more interested in symbolism and mood than in laying out clear, linear stories. Given the series’ casting, it’s pretty clear that we’re going to find out certain characters aren’t dead — for instance, Sherilyn Fenn, whose character was last seen trapped in a bank next to a bomb going off, is returning in her role. But it’s certainly worth wondering whether the new show will clear up any of the mysteries that have stuck with us.
Tasha: I first watched Twin Peaks back when it originally aired in the early 1990s, back when there was nothing else like it on TV. Back then, long-arc storytelling hadn’t become standard for American TV. It was before every genre-leaning show had a dedicated internet fandom standing by to pick apart its mysteries, and before showrunners designed series to keep those fandoms guessing and wondering. So the show’s mysteries, which stretched out over an entire season, seemed like an entirely new approach to storytelling in prime time. But Lynch and his team weren’t particularly interested in answering the questions they raised — Lynch famously didn’t even want to reveal the answer to the central murder-case question that defined the show, “Who killed homecoming queen Laura Palmer?” ABC pushed him to solve that case onscreen, but there were plenty of other surreal show elements that were introduced over the course of its two-season run. And when I say certain plot elements have bugged me over the years, I’m literally talking about things I’ve sat with for 25 years now, wondering if they’d ever be resolved.
The number one question is the fate of the soul of Agent Dale Cooper, played by Kyle MacLachlan. The original series’ final episode has him entering the Black Lodge, “a place of almost unimaginable power, chock full of dark forces and vicious secrets,” where evil spirits might “offer up a power so vast that its bearer might reorder the Earth itself to his liking.” Fans have spent decades debating the exact meaning of everything that happens to Cooper in the Lodge in that last episode, but what’s undisputable is that something comes out of the Lodge wearing his face, and not acting much like him at all. So what I want first and foremost out of a new Twin Peaks story is an understanding of what went on in the Lodge, how it changed Coop, and what that means about the state of the war between good, evil, and the possibly non-aligned spiritual forces haunting the town of Twin Peaks. What most matters for you guys? What are you hoping to learn from the new show, or failing that, what do you want out of it in general?
Lizzie: The first thing that always comes to mind when people talk about Twin Peaks making zero sense is "The owls are not what they seem." This is what The Giant says when he visits Coop in his hotel room, and it's probably one of Twin Peaks' most recognizable quotes. But what does it actually mean? Are all the owls in the woods just pleasant decoration? Or are they a symbol? A metaphor? A hint that this revival was always going to come? Presumably Lynch has had to hire some new owl actors this time around, but maybe their role will be less opaque now.
There’s always the possibility I don’t really want this revival to give me any answers at all; I just want it to make me feel like I did in 2011. Except I would like someone to solve the mystery of James’ singing voice.
Kwame: The thing that always stuck out to me was Killer Bob. I’m intentionally using the word “thing,” because what is he? As someone who never made it through the second season’s endless digressions, I’ve only watched a handful of episodes here and there up to Agent Cooper’s visit to the Black Lodge. But Bob still gets me. Not just because he’s so creepy and demonic, because that’s obvious. I just think it’s fascinating that this otherworldly evil is embodied by this long-haired dude wearing a lot of denim. What does that say about Lynch’s cosmology? Is Hell populated by random guys in jean jackets, sneering into the ether? And if so, what do the other spirits and beings look like? We’re so used to angels and demons looking a certain way, as beautiful or terrifying, but ultimately conventional. In that framework, I’d imagine Bob being this blob-monster with tentacles. But Lynch, who has never hidden his deep belief in the spiritual, is doing something completely different. My question, then, is what the hell does Lynch think evil looks like in the world of Twin Peaks? Does he believe there’s something Lovecraftian in the ordinary? In a way, that’s probably scarier than Cthulhu, right?
Bryan: I’m going to strike a contrary tone here and say that there actually aren’t any specific plot questions for Twin Peaks that I’m concerned about going into the new season. (Well, I have always wondered what was going on with Josie and the drawer knob, but that’s pretty standard-issue.)
Twin Peaks as a plot-driven show more or less ended for me when Laura Palmer’s murder was solved. After that, few specifics left an impression. I actually didn’t realize how little had stuck with me until I recently rewatched the entire series (and Fire Walk With Me) last month. It honestly felt like I was watching the second season for the first time — that’s how little of an impact the machinations and weird developments had. What I did remember was the tone. That strange dreamy mix Lynch excels at, mixing the familiar with the surreal to create the outright terrifying.
People can certainly argue that the first two-thirds of Twin Peaks excelled because it combined that quality with the more traditional — read: coherent — narrative structure of TV, but as odd as the show is at times, there’s magic in how purely Lynchian it became. That probably explains my complicated relationship with the prequel movie Fire Walk With Me, which Lynch has said is integral to understanding the new show. I originally loved that film, and I was enraptured when I rewatched it. It’s gonzo and bizarre, but it plays like a more refined version of that second-season strangeness, shot through with the absolutely heartbreaking terror of Laura Palmer’s final days.
It’s a delicate mix, and one I can’t help but think Showtime executives would run from, screaming. But in a way, it’s the truest example of what Twin Peaks became as it evolved. My ultimate question going in is whether Lynch’s new Twin Peaks will be able to hit that same kind of tonal balance, using both the familiar and the bizarre to disarm the audience, and lead us into truly emotionally devastating territory. And if it can hit it, can it maintain it for 18 episodes? So much serialized TV has become focused on plotting and fan debate around story theories. I would welcome a chance to just float on the tide of Lynch’s mind.
Tasha: I understand just wanting that Twin Peaks feeling back. And I understand thinking that the exact mechanics of why Nadine has super-strength don’t matter, and that you don’t need to know whether the Log Lady’s log really houses the spirit of her dead husband, or she’s just crazy, or it’s something else entirely.
But the original Peaks was a mystery series, full of dangling plot threads and unexplained occurrences. Some of those are nonsense, apparently thrown in by a post-Lynch writing crew without a clear plan for what they were doing. Lynch himself has said he not only wasn’t involved in the second season, he stopped watching the show entirely. So while I’d love an explanation for why Josie Packard’s soul appears to be trapped in a dresser-drawer knob, I don’t expect one.
But the larger framework of the series is about human emotion, and about a great spiritual war that intersects with that emotion. And that’s where I want to understand the shape of the story. Am I the only one who wonders what the Black Lodge is plotting, and what kind of agenda the dwarf and the giant and their kind have for humanity? You aren’t left wondering about all the weird spirits and their adjacent people (like Mike, or the Tremonds, or Garland Briggs) and whether they’re on the same side or represent many different factions? Or how Annie got Theresa's ring, and what their connection means? On the soap-opera scale, don’t you care whether Big Ed feels forced to stay with Nadine now that she’s recovered her memory, or whether he finally can return to Norma now that Hank is dead? Or how (or whether) Leo Johnson got out from under that dangling cage of tarantulas? Or whether Annie is even still alive? You really don’t wonder how’s Annie?
Lizzie: Once you brought the Tremonds into this, I realized there were about 42 characters I barely remember. Like Harold Smith, the unpredictable recluse who was friends with Laura, or anyone involved in the One-Eyed Jacks scheme. Related to One-Eyed Jacks, I’d like to get some answers about Jacques Renault’s death. He was smothered with a pillow in a hospital bed by Leland Palmer. Everyone assumed Leland was seeking revenge for Laura’s death, except Coop, who suspected Leland was trying to prevent Renault from implicating him in the crime. Who’s right? And when Killer Bob has taken over someone, does that person know they are Bob? Is Leland Palmer simultaneously Leland Palmer and Bob, or does Bob take over completely?
Kwame: I’m typically an “all the pieces matter” kind of viewer, but seeing as I bowed out right around the time Lynch left the show, I tend to think his influence as a writer and not so much a creator of mood is what will bring me back. The details I care about have everything to do with the core good-vs.-evil conflict between Bob and the spirits haunting Twin Peaks, and far less to do with the townsfolk. I like Big Ed and Nadine, but they were never what got me to watch the show. It was Laura Palmer, and her place in this larger spiritual war.
And don’t forget. The limited series is taking place a full 25 years after the events of the original run. The Log Lady is long gone. (RIP Catherine Coulson, who played her on the show.) Given Coop’s vision from the first season, will Coop’s soul return and do battle with Bob? What does it mean that that might be possible? Those questions matter to me the most.
Bryan: It’s funny, if the show had ended just after the reveal that Leland Palmer killed Laura, I suspect I would have the same questions you all do. But fresh from a rewatch, those actually aren’t the questions that leap to my mind. Perhaps it’s just season two and Fire Walk With Me talking, but I don’t expect anything to come together in a traditional narrative sense — and I honestly won’t be disappointed if we learn nothing about the giant, the dwarf, or his formica table.
If anything, I think that is the version of Twin Peaks I would actually find disappointing. We’ve had plenty of wonderful procedurals since the original show, and plenty of serialized murder mysteries. But I never loved Twin Peaks because it had a tightly conceived mythology, or was a wonder of a whodunnit. I loved it because it was a waking dream that worked on emotional and visceral levels. Were the soap-opera and mystery elements part of that larger whole? Certainly. But they were threads in a larger tapestry. I’m probably putting an impossible amount of pressure on the show here, but in my wildest dreams, I want it to do what the original did: surprise me by going in directions I could never anticipate.
Every week, a slew of new music videos hits the web. Watching them at your desk is not time theft because you deserve it; think of it as a nice reward for surviving another work week. But what if you don’t have time to watch every video? Maybe you have a deadline, a hungry pet, or other grown-up concerns. In consideration of your schedule, Lizzie and Kaitlyn bring you a series called One Video. Each week we’ll tell you “one video” you need to watch, why, and for how long.
Lizzie:  Most people would not remain calm if their nose-diving speedboat was being circled by a shark, and their lifejacket was floating towards the sunset. Vince Staples, in this video, and one would assume, in any similar situation, remains calm.
The song itself is a good late-night summer track, with bass so heavy it could leave a bruise. I think it would go over well at your next beach party.
Kaitlyn: Speaking of staying calm, and of beaches, I’d like to add that Vince contributed a song to Baywatch (Music from the Motion Picture). So he loves beaches, beach dangers, and procedural solutions to beach dangers. I would guess. That song, called “BagBak,” features a really good lyric: “Boy I’m buoyant, we are / floating on them peons.”
Lizzie: Vince Staples is a rapper from Long Beach, CA, so he’s presumably familiar with the biology of marine life.
Kaitlyn: Actually, no, I’m sorry Lizzie, he isn’t very familiar with it. In this video, Vince Staples releases a goldfish into the ocean. Goldfish cannot live in salt water, even for the sake of imaginative imagery. We nearly disqualified Vince from One Video consideration because The Verge is a publication dedicated to facts and science, but in the end we reasoned that art can take some liberties once in a while.
Lizzie:  The goldfish gets pretty big by the end of the video, which you could attribute to salt bloat, but I have seen a big goldfish before.
Kaitlyn: Yes, it’s a metaphor. Vince is in the phase of his career where he has to go from being a well-known, beloved person in his home state of California (a small pond) to a not-quite-as-well-known but critically acclaimed and pretty well-liked person in the broader United States (the ocean). He talks about death a lot, so the goldfish-in-salt metaphor is pretty good.
Lizzie: “Big Fish” is special because it’s relatable and could be a metaphor for absolutely anything. Are you a big fish in a small pond? A big fish in a big pond? Are you trying to keep your head above water while everything around you points to imminent danger? Are you a pescatarian?
Kaitlyn: “Big Fish” is special because it’s a good reminder that not all of your summer jams have to be peppy, it’s okay to indulge in some humidity-induced gloom, and a good reminder that Vince Staples is releasing a new album soon called Big Fish Theory. It should also give you a little nudge to recall some of Vince’s other music videos, which he famously comes up with the concepts for himself. For example, in a 10-minute short film for his 2016 EP Prima Donna, Vince raps as a bobblehead version of himself.
Personally, “Big Fish” is a good reminder of the time I went to a Vince Staples concert with my friend Lizzie, who writes one half of One Video every week.
Lizzie: Kaitlyn says there was a goldfish at that show. I don’t know what she means. Maybe there was one.
Kaitlyn: There was, and it was integrated into the light show and graphics that accompanied the music. It was Vince’s way of hinting that this day — the day of the “Big Fish” video — would come eventually. Lizzie couldn’t see it because there were tall men in front of her, and she’s quite small.
Lizzie:  I would stop watching just before the end when something unseemly may or may not happen to Vince.
Kaitlyn: As is often the case, I pick “watch it the whole time.” If you watch all of “Big Fish” you might be lucky enough to discover that the YouTube algorithm has queued up a Pitchfork interview next. In it, Vince Staples says he believes Bill Nye the Science Guy is underrated: “Bill Nye is the reason all these kids know how to proportion their lean in their beverages.” It turns out Vince is a science fan after all.
I might sound stereotypical as hell here, but I’m Italian and I care a lot about food. I also think Italian food is the best food in the world, and I get mad if you bastardize Italian dishes with ingredients that have nothing to do with it. Like, why would you create a burger pizza? (I ate it, with pickles and all, and no, it had no reason to be.)
That’s why I was delighted when a friend (also Italian) pointed me to the Twitter account Italians Mad at Food. It’s a fantastic collection of comments by Italians watching video recipes of Italian dishes — and getting pissed off, really pissed off, the Italian way. Here are some examples:
pic.twitter.com/jRbmwkMRvT
pic.twitter.com/KNEukMFKxo
I just love how passionate these people are. I feel their pain, their indignation, and seeing their comments pop up in my news feed always gives me a smile. So I decided to reach out to the person behind this, who tweets from the account @prodigis. To my surprise, the genius who created Italians Mad at Food is not Italian at all. His name is Zach Champion, a 25-year-old electronic music producer and writer who lives in Michigan.
We talked about how Italians Mad at Food came to be, how he runs it, and how the account is going to change in the future.
The interview has been edited and condensed for clarity.
When and why did you start Italians Mad at Food?
I started it back in December. I was sucked up as much as anyone else in this pretty rapidly accelerating trend of sped-up, gimmicky recipe videos on Facebook, like Tasty and Tastemade, that just seemed to come out of nowhere and then they were everywhere. Gradually, I just started noticing that any time they’d post pasta or pizza recipes, they’d get this unrelenting torrent of vitriol from sometimes the same people commenting on every video — this pretty broad swath of very traditionalist Italian cooks and consumers.
So on my personal Twitter account, I started tweeting a couple of those and they didn’t really stick, but somehow I knew that this is hilarious. I read them to my friends sometimes and they agreed that it was hilarious. Even though my personal account didn’t get much traction, I had a gut feeling that there was a market out there for people who would enjoy this. So kind of embracing the more absurdist humor that I liked from elsewhere on Twitter, I put together the image one day and I found that picture of Luigi angrily cooking the pizza. I’m pretty impressed by how easily it came together as a concept. It was especially enticing to me because it’d be such an easy account to run. I can just let these people speak for themselves.
pic.twitter.com/SK5OkbVPOQ
You only follow two Twitter accounts: Tasty and Tastemade. Why is that?
I wanted to keep the account as stripped down of personality as possible — the channel by which I can give people these funny reactions. The account often has a voice because I interject my own comments on things at times. It’s mostly just an effort to keep it as focused on the comments as possible. It is an account dedicated to watching Tasty and Tastemade, and seeing when people get mad at them.
The account is pretty active, which is why I think it’s successful. How do you go about finding these comments?
Oh gosh, I have sat for probably an unhealthy number of hours, I’ve pretty much watched or at least read the comments of every recipe video that talks about pasta or pizza or any other traditional Italian dish, from the beginning of 2016 / late 2015 on to the present at least. I just dedicated an afternoon to go check that I didn’t miss any funny accounts that are getting yelled at. Tasty and Tastemade alone have enough, honestly. I’ve got like 780 screenshots saved in a folder that are waiting to go up. I’m pretty much set for two years.
780 screenshots? I didn’t know Italians were that passionate.
Yeah. There are so many of them. They're very passionate. And you know, you’ll have one person make a top-level comment and then 90 people will get into this huge argument. You start breaking into that and content is endless. So I go in in bulk and just watch as many videos I can find. I don’t ever repost, not on purpose anyway. I schedule them out two months in advance, so I don’t have to think about them. I check the notifications every day, just because I love that. People have such great reactions.
pic.twitter.com/9KlMjCdEqI
What’s the feedback been?
I’ve been shocked really by the demographic variety. I have a huge following in Brazil that I never expected. So I get a lot of responses in Portuguese that I can read poorly translated interpretations of. It’s an even split between either folks from Italy or of Italian descent who relate heavily. I get a lot of, “this is me.” Some people [complain about] national stereotyping, which was not my intent. But I’d say the vast bulk of it is pretty positive.
I think people are just fascinated mostly by the ability of a lot of the commenters who are clearly writing with English as a second language to get their point across with extremely specific and concise insults. Even if some of the grammar and the vocabulary trips them up along delivery, the ultimate message of why exactly the dish sucks and why that person really needs to rethink their decision is always just so colorful. The most successful posts are usually the ones that are a bit outside of the norm, where it’s not just “my eyes are bleeding,” “my grandmother would die if she saw this.” Those are nice but it’s the ones where people go the extra mile to really get underneath the recipe skin.
Why do you think Italians are so passionate about it?
Well, in their own words, and I’ve come to agree on this with a lot of them, their cuisine is very much a part of their national identity. And places like America, while sure we have some sort of quasi-original cuisine, mostly we are an amalgamation of immigrant cuisines and regional classics and things like that. They raise the point a lot that somebody from a country like America — [where people] don’t have a heritage connection to what they eat, where it’s just what they need to live off of or what they think tastes best, where they can try a totally different classification of food every day if they wanted to — can’t really understand what it’s like to see all of a sudden in the age of the internet that the rest of the world has been cooking your food slightly differently every time until it becomes completely unrecognizable.
pic.twitter.com/6zuNo68Pnv
Have you ever been contacted by people who complained that you tweeted their comments?
No, I never had anyone reach out in a negative way. I had one woman, she just responded to a tweet that was of her and said, “hey, that’s me!” I was nervous about it at first because I wasn’t sure if it was too invasive. But then it kind of occurred to me that all of the comments I’m screenshotting are on public pages, and they’re usually the top-voted ones way at the top of the comment section. I mean, if anybody reached out to me and asked me to take it down, I would do so. I’ve kind of worked past that moral quandary for the moment on that justification.
What are your plans for the future of the account?
The current model of the account — just tweet out a couple screenshots every day — will continue for the foreseeable future until it stops being funny and nobody wants to pay attention to it anymore. But I want to tie in a bit of myself to the account intermittently. I mentioned that I make music and that’s something that I want to try to boost the visibility of. I might put together some sort of compilation — a 20-second-long best of the month, with original soundtrack. But things like that hopefully won’t subtract from the overall ethos of the account, but just give a more direct link to my own personal projects and my own personal account. It’s not without motive. I do this because it’s fun and I think these comments are hilarious and I’m glad that it resonated and people are having fun with it, but I am also still kind of an opportunist. I cannot deny it.
Just across the bay from San Francisco, a group of Oakland Technical High School students has been meeting twice a week for months, hacking away on robots slated to compete in two of the most important series of student robotics competitions in the world.
At Oakland Tech, around 20 high schoolers have been building robots for the Vex tournament and for the FIRST competition, where thousands of students go head to head to see which team can build the most capable machine.
The robots are supposed to be able to do random, albeit challenging, tasks. In this year’s Vex event, which took place in January in Mountain View, Calif., at the Google Campus, the Oakland club was tasked with making a robot that can pick up small star-shaped figurines and throw them over a fence. For the local FIRST competition, which was held in San Francisco in March, the team had to build and program a robot that could pick up a cog and hang it on a peg.
Building these robots means piecing together a body, getting the motors working, then programming it to carry out an order. And it all has to work together without a hitch. It’s not easy.
While Oakland’s team has won awards at robotics tournaments against contestants from all over the world, the team also stands out in other ways.
“When we go to competitions, we really don’t look like the other teams that are there,” said Kai Drayton-Yee, one of the leaders of Oakland Tech’s robotics team, who is Chinese, Japanese and black. “A lot of it is white, male dominated and heteronormative.”
Oakland Tech’s robotics club is led by three non-male-identified students.
“We generally have the highest number of women on our team,” said Drayton-Yee. “And we generally have the most people of color on our team, too.”
Their robotics club doesn’t look much like a typical group of engineers in Silicon Valley, either.
At Google, for instance, only 1 percent of its tech employees are black, only 3 percent are Hispanic and only 19 percent of all its tech employees are women.
Likewise, at Facebook, 1 percent of its tech employees are black, 3 percent are Hispanic and 17 percent are women, according to data released by the company last summer. In its blog post about the report, Facebook blamed a lack of available talent on what’s called the “pipeline” problem, lamenting that there aren’t enough diverse candidates entering the tech industry.
(It’s worth noting, though, that multiple reports have found there are more black and Latino computer science engineers entering the workforce than are being hired by tech companies.)
One likely reason for the shortage of candidates is a dearth of technology education in public schools.
Computer science education in public high schools across the country is rare, particularly in areas with high minority populations. But in Oakland, one of the most diverse cities in the country, that’s changing.
In 2015, only three public high schools in Oakland offered computer science courses. But this school year, 14 do, out of 17 high schools district-wide.
There are now 2,853 Oakland public high school students enrolled in computer science, up more than three times from the 685 that were enrolled in it during the previous school year.
For comparison, 10 of the 14 public high schools in San Francisco now offer computer science courses. (Though the cosmopolitan city just north of Silicon Valley has seen its overall public high school enrollment shrink after the late-1990s tech boom, as many of San Francisco’s wealthy residents opted to send their kids to private schools.)
Statewide in California, only 35 percent of high schools offer any computer science courses, according to data from the Level Playing Field Institute.
Computer science education is also expanding across the country. Chicago offers computer science at approximately 65 of its 106 public high schools. In Los Angeles, of the city’s 97 public high schools, 74 currently offer computer science courses. In Miami, all public high schools offer the courses, and in Washington, D.C., 10 of its 16 public high schools do. The data was compiled by the school districts for Recode.
The computer science expansion at Oakland high schools was funded in part by a $5 million grant from Intel to grow the programs over the next five years. By 2018, the district plans for every public high school in Oakland to offer computer engineering courses. Now that it is part of Oakland’s core academic requirements, every freshman is required to take computer science if it’s offered at their school.
But nationwide, only seven states have standards for computer science in K-12 education, according to data from the nonprofit Code.org, and only 32 states allow computer science to count toward high school graduation — otherwise it’s an elective.
“Hundreds of students across the district will now be creating applications and hardware projects, like robotics or websites,” said Claire Shorall, who teaches calculus and computer science at Castlemont High School in Oakland and spearheaded the school district’s computer science expansion. “I think what we’re going to see are ideas that haven’t yet entered the market, because students from diverse backgrounds will create things we haven’t seen before.”
“Forty-five percent of all computer science students in Oakland Unified are young women, and our numbers for African American and Latino students far exceed what we see in the tech workforce,” Shorall said.
Most of the Oakland school district’s computer science teachers started as teachers in other areas and were trained up to teach the new courses. And most of those teachers leading Oakland’s computer science classes are people of color, too, which Shorall says makes it easier for students from underrepresented communities to envision themselves entering tech jobs.
Sign up for our Recode Daily newsletter to get the top tech and business news stories delivered to your inbox.
In the second season of Netflix’s science-fiction anime Knights of Sidonia, there’s a scene where the main characters gather around a television to watch another sci-fi anime. In it, a man named Killy, clad entirely in black, uses an obscenely powerful gun to destroy a strange, masked robot. One of the viewers, a human / alien hybrid named Tsumugi, becomes visibly distressed. “What happens to Killy after this?” she worries. “It all depends on our support,” one of her friends answers.
For many viewers, it was a charming but not especially important scene. But for fans of Tsutomu Nihei — the creator of the manga Knights of Sidonia is based on — it was thrilling. Killy is actually the star of Nihei’s first published work, the dark and gritty manga Blame!. His appearance in Sidonia lasts less than two minutes, but it made a strong impression. “People were talking about this piece so much that we decided ‘Why don’t we do a movie?’” explains director Hiroyuki Seshita.
That film, called simply Blame!, releases on Netflix and in Japanese theaters on May 20th, 2017. For the most part, it’s being created by the same team, including Seshita, who returned to direct, and Nihei, who was involved with the movie from its earliest stages. The Blame! manga debuted 20 years ago, and it’s a story that has been updated and changed in many ways to better suit the new medium. “It’s a body of work that [Nihei] restructured and redesigned and reconceptualized,” says Seshita.
Blame! takes place in the distant future, where humanity largely struggles to survive in a perpetually growing city-structure filled with dangerous robots called safeguards. The sheer size of the city — no one actually knows how big it is — means small groups of people have evolved in isolation, rarely interacting with each other. Killy serves as a sort of science-fiction gunslinger, travelling the countless levels of the city in search of humans carrying a rare gene that can help control the robots and restore humanity’s place. It’s a dark, hard futuristic tale filled with sprawling industrial wastes and disturbing humanoid killing machines.
Though Knights of Sidonia and Blame! come from the same creator, and take place in the same, loosely connected universe, they take different approaches to storytelling. Sidonia is a character-heavy drama, with lots of humor and relationship-building to balance out the bleaker tale, where the last remnants of humanity are fighting a war against a seemingly invincible alien foe. Blame! is much starker and more mysterious. Killy rarely talks, and there’s little explicit exposition. Sometimes many pages go by without words, and supporting characters rarely stick around for long. Much of the storytelling is purely visual. Readers learn about the powerful machines by witnessing them in battle, and see how humanity lives by observing their squalid villages. It’s the kind of story that benefits from repeated readings to pick up all of the details.
This minimalist storytelling helps give the Blame! manga a distinct flavor, but it also makes it much less approachable compared to Nihei’s later works — and that’s something the team wanted to avoid with the film. “He knows that the original that he put together 20 years ago was a very complicated, intricate storyline that was aimed very much at anime and sci-fi fans,” Seshita says of Nihei. “Sometimes it was hard to follow. For the movie adaptation, what Mr. Nihei wished for was to make something that was more accessible to a wider audience. Which was exactly what we wanted if we were going to put a movie together. That was very important for us to move forward.”
The Blame! film gets around this by largely telling the story from the perspective of the human settlers of a small, isolated village. Desperate and running out of food, a group of townsfolk come across Killy after being chased by murderous safeguards while scrounging for supplies. Their stories intertwine when they learn of a factory that can potentially create both a large supply of food and a synthetic version of the gene Killy is searching for. Instead of breezing past these characters like in the manga, the film takes its time, giving the audience a chance to know and care for them.
It’s still nowhere near as charming or lighthearted as Knights of Sidonia. There isn’t much humor to the story. Killy is as quiet and solemn as ever, and there are plenty of long shots that show the impossibly huge scale of the city and its myriad levels of vast emptiness. But the new human characters help ground the story. They add an emotional weight as it becomes clear just how bad things have become, and what Killy is ultimately fighting to preserve.
Fans can still expect to see plenty of well-choreographed action sequences, unsettling robots scurrying to destroy humans, and far-out technologies like augmented humans and self-replicating food. And perhaps most important is the city itself, a strange place that’s in a state of both decay and growth, as the machines expand and rebuild it in their image. It’s every bit as stark and awe-inspiring in the film as in the manga. “Blame! wouldn’t be Blame! without that huge, massive structure,” says co-director and CG supervisor Tadahiro Yoshihira.
One likely key reason the Blame! film captures the essence of the manga is because Nihei was so involved in the creation process. “He was there from the beginning,” Yoshihira says. “He has a huge understanding of what we’re trying to create visually, so there have been a lot of creative discussions.” Seshita adds that “[Nihei] looked back at what he had created 20 years ago, and he basically told us what he wanted to depict now.”
The resulting film manages a very difficult and careful balancing act. On one hand, it’s a fantastic piece of fan service, giving long-time readers a chance to see the world of Blame! in a new way. But it’s also an ideal place to start for those unfamiliar with Nihei’s works, which also include another loosely connected cyberpunk manga series called Biomega. “The movie is more like a door that welcomes people into this world,” says Seshita.
Telegram released its latest 4.0 update this week, and one of the biggest features being added is video messages, which allows users to send video clips to each other at the push of a button. It’s similar to the app’s addition of audio messages — in fact, to access the video message feature, users simply tap the existing audio icon to switch to video mode.
Like audio messages, Telegram’s video messages are automatically downloaded and autoplayed by default, and feature a picture-in-picture mode within Telegram so you can do other things in the app while watching a video.
But along with private video messages, Telegram is looking to expand its public channels by adding video there as well, in a feature called Telescope. Telescope videos, like Telegram video messages, are clips up to a minute long, but they’ll be publicly available through a direct URL, even to people without Telegram accounts.
Both features should be available now as Telegram’s 4.0 update rolls out.
If there’s anything Bungie wants you to know about Destiny 2 — a sequel to the addictive, ambitious, and oftentimes frustrating online-only shooter — it’s that the game will actually respect your time. During the first gameplay reveal in Los Angeles yesterday, Bungie executives took the stage to outline the substantial quality of life improvements the sequel will introduce to make this happen.
From removing the need to load in and out of one area for different activities to letting players more easily group up with strangers, Bungie is going to great lengths to paint its new installment as a more thoughtful, well-meaning, and accessible video game. “We want Destiny to not feel like work and feel like it’s taking up your life,” says M.E. Chung, a game designer at Bungie who specializes on the series’ social dynamics. “We want it to fit into your life schedule.”
For many hardcore players, the original Destiny sometimes felt like a second job. On top of the grind of daily play and the ever-increasing amount of items to collect, Destiny was hobbled by befuddling design choices and maddening technical constraints. Players complained endlessly about not having enough space for all their gear and weapons, the lack of narrative and cinematic direction, and an almost Kafkaesque progression system. (Ask any longtime player and they can recount horror stories of repetitive materials farming and the nihilistic cruelty of the game’s random number generator.) Destiny spent its first year looking like an extended beta, as Bungie tweaked and changed it constantly in response to player feedback.
The end result was a title that reminded players that their time just might be better spent elsewhere, creating a constant tug-of-war battle between that nagging feeling and the satisfying, dopamine rush of another new piece of loot or a hard-fought victory. For those without a dedicated group of friends to play with, Destiny could feel like an alienating and isolated experience. With all the the window dressing of its social infrastructure stripped away, it was just a series of feedback loops and feeble reward systems laid bare — a pretty-looking gun game with nothing to say.
The original Destiny, which could cost upwards of $150 when you factor in expansions and other add-on content, was a fascinating attempt at trying to blend the benefits of a massively multiplayer online game with the nuts and bolts of a first-person shooter. The combination was both a wondrous success and spectacular failure on multiple levels. Even the most diehard players are quick to own up to their complicated relationship with the game. Yet while fans may have endured an emotional rollercoaster of a relationship with Destiny’s creators over the years, the franchise has come out on the other end intact.
Now, Bungie is ready for its second shot. The developer wants Destiny 2 to feel like a fresher, friendlier, and more social game, everything the original was meant to be. “We have a saying, ‘Making it easier to find the fun,’” says Chung. Bungie hopes this extends through every element of the game. The goal is to make Destiny 2 less of a slog designed only for the most dedicated of players, while also being more accessible to people who don’t have a large network of online friends to play with. “There are some people who are going to play every day — one of our lessons is that our players are always going to outpace us,” Chung admits. “But we don’t want players to fall behind.”
This new philosophy appears to have had the biggest impact on the game’s social elements. Destiny 2 will now feature a system called Guided Games, which will let less experienced players opt to play with more skilled members of an official clan. (These clans existed in a minor form in the previous game, through the company’s website, but never as a fully functioning in-game system.)
One of the biggest problems with the initial Destiny was how many of its most challenging and rewarding activities were restricted to premade teams, meaning you couldn’t go in solo and find other strangers to play with. Instead, players formed groups through third-party forums on Reddit, and scores of dedicated Destiny group-finding services popped up elsewhere. Now, players will be able to jump into group activities by selecting a clan that meets their criteria, whether it be a kid-friendly group, one that’s more competitive, one open to female players, or any number of other possibilities.
Chung says the original restrictions in Destiny were an intentional design decision, something Bungie felt was necessary given the toxicity of the game community. The developer didn’t feel comfortable putting strangers into high-stress situations, especially when it could be a young kid and a profanity-loving college student. “It’s funny. You hear about toxicity in lots of different games [today],” she says. “I played online games in my teens and it was just as toxic then,” just with less female players, she adds. Chung says that, as a female gamer, she learned to play without a mic and by using only ambiguous online handles that wouldn’t give away her gender.
It was this kind of toxicity, coupled with how wonky and unfriendly old-school PC server lists were, that moved console shooters toward matchmaking, Chung explains, where you could easily queue into a playlist and choose never to interact with others if you didn’t want to. But that “made you lose the ability to find the people you trust” to play with, she says. Bungie is now trying to find a better balance, after deciding that its initial approach in the first Destiny simply did not work.
Guided Games will hopefully be that system, letting players enjoy features like the six-person raids and three-person “nightfall” strikes by self-selecting a group to be paired with. Of course, the success of this will all depend on how willing clans are to help strangers and take their roles seriously, and whether the logistical and technical challenges involved don’t mean enduring long wait times to find strangers to play with. Bungie says there will be reward systems for clans to help incentivize positivity and openness, but the developer has yet to disclose details on how the system will work.
Chung says that, above all, Destiny 2 is aimed at nurturing the series’ tight-knit community. “We had a hunch about this game being about the community,” she says. Prior to release, Bungie had no idea the Destiny would inspire a 300,000-plus subreddit or real-life meet-ups or dedicated cosplay. That’s not to mention the scores of personal stories about friendships made, family bonds strengthened, and even an in-game marriage proposal. Now — three years later and with a legion of fans who play Destiny as devoutly as some of the longest-running MMOs — it seems clear that without its social fabric, the game would be just another flashy shooter.
Destiny’s entire purpose, Chung adds, is to create virtual obstacles for players to overcome together. “I describe that challenge as the fuel to memories between lifelong friends. I think a lot about games I’ve been playing, when you ask yourself, ‘Why am I doing this?’” she says, ruminating on the hours we spend obsessively collecting virtual goods and toiling away online to blow off steam. “We hope with Destiny they’re saying, ‘I’m spending time with my friends.’ Most people don’t regret the time they spend with their friends.”
Major League Baseball was a pioneer in streaming video and launched one of the first third-party apps on the iPhone. Its At Bat app is the most popular streaming service for sports, according to ComScore, and has been the top-grossing sports app in the App Store for a whopping nine years in a row. And starting in a few weeks, the service will be available for Google’s Daydream VR platform.
I got a chance to check the VR app out yesterday at MLB’s New York City headquarters. You can watch live games, which streamed in crisp, HD video without any interruptions. You can go full screen, which leaves you in a large open dome with a screen floating in front of you. Or you can keep the picture in between two screens, overflowing with stats from the game you’re watching and other games happening at the same time around the league.
The app takes advantage of VR to add one brand new feature. If you’re not watching in full screen, you see a home plate in front of you. A heat map shows where in the strike zone the current batter has the most success getting hits. And each pitch, after it’s thrown, appears as a glowing trajectory, so you can see exactly how the ball travelled, where it passed through the strike zone, or didn’t.
If you’re not in the mood for a live game, you can browse through videos of recent interviews, highlights, and newscasts. There is another section of the app that lets you watch 360 videos produced by the league. Unfortunately, the app doesn’t yet support live 360 video for watching active games.
The app is free to download. To access live video and radio streams from, users can choose from several tiers of monthly paid subscriptions. It launches to the public on June 1st, and while it starts on Daydream, MLB says it will eventually be available on every VR platform.
The latest installment of Ridley Scott’s space-horror franchise, Alien: Covenant, hits theaters today. The series is coming up on its 40th anniversary, and over the course of its lifetime, it’s taken some interesting turns — and some downright unfortunate ones.
The franchise is already in a strange place, with the latest films sitting somewhere between prequels and sequels. And as with any long-running franchise, numerous entries can led to a complicated timeline. With the latest film coming out, it’s a good time to look back at the scope of the series, where it started, and where it’s currently landed.
The franchise’s first film, Ridley Scott’s moody horror movie Alien, hit theaters in 1979, to widespread acclaim. James Cameron followed it up almost a decade later with 1986’s Aliens, which brought back Alien’s surviving protagonist, Ripley (Sigourney Weaver), and took the series in a more action-packed direction.
The 1992 sequel Alien 3 was directed by David Fincher, who went on to direct Seven, The Social Network, and Netflix’s House of Cards. Citing studio interference with the production, he essentially disowned it. In 2003, producer Charles de Lauzirika completely recut the film, inclining it toward Fincher’s original vision. The “Assembly Cut” was received much better than the original.
The next film to hit theaters was Alien: Resurrection in 1997. Directed by Jean-Pierre Jeunet (Amélie), it jumps centuries into the future and features a clone of Ripley, and people who want to use an alien queen from her body for military purposes.
There have been a fair number of Alien spinoffs over the years. Two Alien Vs. Predator movies crossbred this franchise with the similarly long-running science-fiction horror series that began with 1987’s Predator. A planned third AVP film would have led right into Alien, but it never materialized. There have also been extensive runs of comics and video games, both standalone Alien stories and Alien Vs. Predator stories. And more than a dozen novels have further expanded the Alien universe. But the dual core of the story has always been Alien and Aliens, the two feature films that helped define modern cinematic science-fiction horror.
The film series was pretty straightforward before Ridley Scott’s 2012 film Prometheus. That movie confused fans, because Scott conceived it as a film that came out of Alien’s “DNA,” but told its own standalone story. Still, it’s so close to Alien in the story details that fans couldn’t stop speculating about whether it was actually part of the Alien universe. Regardless, the film is set before the events of Alien. And Alien: Covenant works as a sequel to Prometheus, but also moves closer to setting up the original Alien.
The film series could have been more confusing: Fresh off Chappie, director Neill Blomkamp posted concept art for a fifth Alien film that was reportedly his next project. That film would have essentially ignored Alien 3 and Alien: Resurrection in an attempt to reboot the post-Aliens side of the franchise. However, with Ridley Scott’s Prometheus sequel in the works, Fox put the project on hold, and Ridley Scott basically said it’s not going to happen at all.
Chronologically, Prometheus begins in a couple of places. There’s an alien Engineer in the beginning of the film, seeding a new world, which might be Earth in the distant past, or might just suggest how the Engineers created humanity. In 2089, archaeologists Elizabeth Shaw and Charles Holloway dig up some evidence of humanity’s origins. And the actual Prometheus mission to find the Engineers takes place in 2093. Alien: Covenant takes place more than a decade after Prometheus, in 2104. A recent prologue links the events of the two films and fills in some of the gap, but not all of it.
From there, we get into the original films: Alien takes place two decades after Covenant in 2122, while Ripley wakes up from stasis 57 years later in Aliens. Alien 3 is set immediately after Aliens. Finally, Alien: Resurrection makes a huge jump to 2386.
There’s a two-decade gap between Alien: Covenant and Alien, and while this new film provides a direct line of action from Prometheus to Alien, it doesn’t entirely lead up to that original film. Scott has ambitious plans for the future of the Alien franchise: he says Alien: Covenant is “one of three sequels to Prometheus that will take the saga to the ‘back entrance’” of the original film.
He’s also said he can keep this story going for another six films. And he told IGN that he’s writing the next film now, and that he’s aiming to have it in production within the next 14 months. It’s unclear what that film will be about just yet. Back in March, Scott referred to a film called Alien: Awakening that might take place between Prometheus and Covenant, but he’s also referred to Blomkamp’s canceled film as Awakening.
Either way, it seems as though Scott is now looking to set up the original Alien with these new films, rather than mess with the post-Aliens era.
The Alien franchise seems to be split into two big arcs right now. Prometheus, for better or worse, helps set up the origins of Alien’s titular creature, while Alien: Covenant continues that arc. The other big arc is Ripley’s story, which began in Alien and continued through Alien: Resurrection. Given the drama surrounding the status of Neill Blomkamp’s canceled film, Scott and Fox seem a bit more keen on focusing on the  franchise’s origins, rather than resurrecting Ripley for another outing.
This feels like a bit of an unfortunate choice, for two reasons: Blomkamp’s script was reportedly strong, but it also would have helped reboot the end of Ripley’s story. Alien 3 and Alien: Resurrection have both been widely condemned for the directions that they took the franchise: Joss Whedon, who wrote the original screenplay, said the filmmakers “did everything wrong that they could possibly do.”
The images of Blomkamp’s concept included Ripley and Hicks post-Aliens, an Engineer’s ship in a cargo bay, and of course, the xenomorphs themselves. It stands to reason that the film would have continued with some of the themes explored in Aliens, with the inimical Weyland-Yutani Corporation continuing to explore the potential of using the aliens as weapons. Most importantly, Sigourney Weaver said the film would give her character a satisfying ending. It was also meant to let Fox correct mistakes made in the previous sequels.
That attention is being spent right now on the origins of Alien, rather than going back to polish Ripley’s story. This could be down to simple practical reasons: it would be a marketing nightmare to introduce a new film on the heels of Alien: Covenant that’s really a sequel to Aliens. While standalone, out-of-continuity films are starting to be part of franchises, thanks to the success of Star Wars: Rogue One, it’s still a pretty newfangled concept from a franchise that’s much bigger than Alien. Presumably, in this sequel-driven industry, we’ll eventually see some sort of reboot or reimagining that either finishes out Ripley’s story, or takes the franchise in a different direction post-Aliens.
As Immigration and Customs Enforcement steps up its deportation efforts, the agency is turning to a controversial surveillance device. According to a report by The Detroit News, local agents recently used a cell-site simulator (also known as a Stingray) to locate a Salvadorean restaurant worker, tracing his cell-phone signal to a home in the Detroit metro area. It’s one of the first cases of ICE using Stingrays under the Trump administration, raising new questions about the federal use of the device for civil immigration enforcement.
Typically used to locate devices tied to a specific phone number, cell-site simulators have been the subject of significant controversy in recent years. The devices work by mimicking the signal of a cell tower, then collecting information from every device that attempts to connect. As a result, they can disrupt cell service in areas where they are used, and often collect vast amounts of information from non-targeted phones.
Use of the devices is widespread within law enforcement, but remained secret for many years. The devices were only made public after a protracted legal appeal resulting from a fraud case. Among other projects, the US Marshals service deployed the devices from small, low-flying planes as a way of locating a single fugitive in a dense urban area.
The Department of Homeland Security (which includes ICE) operates at least 124 Stingray devices, according to a congressional report last year. In 2015, DHS issued an agency-wide policy requiring a search warrant to deploy the devices.
ICE has arrested 41,300 people for deportation since Trump’s inauguration, according to recently released statistics. More than 10,000 of those people had no criminal conviction, a sign of the agency’s new focus on available targets rather than criminal offenders. Despite the surge of arrests, deportations were actually down compared with the same period last year as a result of the growing backlog in immigration courts.
When Ridley Scott returned to the Alien franchise with 2012’s Prometheus, one of the primary criticisms was that the film wasn’t really, well, Alien-esque. Rather than build upon the sci-fi / horror formula he had created in 1979, Scott went in a different direction with a film that was much more concerned with questions about the origins of humanity and our place in the universe. It was an intentional shift, with Scott even saying at the time that the film shouldn’t be taken as a direct prequel to his previous work, but that didn’t do much to curb audience expectations.
For his new sequel to Prometheus, Scott has made the decision to go back to his roots. From the title to the marketing, Alien: Covenant has been framed as a direct descendent of the original, with one thing in mind above all others: scaring the hell out of the audience. The visceral footage previewed at SXSW earlier this year only seemed to underscore the idea that this was going to be a brutal, gory Alien, much closer to the film that fans wanted five years ago than the ponderous, often convoluted story they got.
For long stretches Alien: Covenant delivers on that promise. It’s a film full of terrifying, heart-pounding terror, on par with some of the best work in Scott’s career. But it’s also a movie stuck between modes, mixing that horror with the same pseudo-intellectual pondering that ground things to a halt last time. The result is a film that is a welcome improvement over Prometheus, but perhaps not the home run that sci-fi and horror fans might have been hoping for.
Warning: mild spoilers for Alien: Covenant to follow.
The film picks up 10 years after the events of Prometheus, with the ship Covenant making a years-long journey through space. With 2,000 colonists in cryosleep and bevy of human embryos on board, its mission is to reach the distant planet Origae-6 and set up a new outpost, spreading humanity’s reach across the galaxy. Monitoring the ship during the trip is Walter (Michael Fassbender), an upgraded model of the synthetic human Fassbender played in the previous film. A wave of energy from a nearby star ends up assaulting the ship, waking the crew up from their sleep pods and killing the ship’s captain (James Franco, who is in the film for no more than a single shot before being burned alive).
Stepping into the leadership vacuum is Oram (Billy Crudup), and when the crew receives a transmission from a nearby planet that might be an even better fit for their colonization mission, he directs the Covenant to the planet to investigate. Daniels (Katherine Waterston), the dead captain’s wife, argues against it, but is ultimately overruled. When the Covenant crew lands on the new planet, they find an incredibly Earth-like environment, but as they start to explore they discover a world of horrors they could never have anticipated.
From the early moments of Covenant, it’s obvious that Scott and his collaborators want this movie to feel like an Alien film. Themes from original composer Jerry Goldsmith’s score surface early on, and the entire pacing of the film feels like a nod to what has come before. (One sequence toward the end of the film even plays like a seven-minute supercut of the original.) Meeting the crew of the Covenant only strengthens that connection. Characters like the pilot Tennessee (Danny McBride), and his no-nonsense wife, Faris (Amy Seimetz) are human and relatable, calling back to the “truckers in space” vibe that made the original Alien such a novel break from sci-fi convention in the first place.
When it comes time for the monsters to reveal themselves and wreak havoc, however, Scott doesn’t just prove that he’s still able to call upon the horror sensibilities that served him before. He takes the opportunity to show off how much he’s learned in the past 38 years, turning up the tension and squirm-in-your-seat anxiety to the point where it’s nearly unbearable at times. One of the posters for Alien: Covenant features just the face of the infamous xenomorph along with the word “run,” and that juxtaposition perfectly encapsulates the film’s best moments. When it’s humming, Alien: Covenant isn’t just a return to sci-fi horror. It’s quite nearly the perfect sequel, hitting every hoped-for franchise beat effortlessly. In a word, it is terrifying.
If only the rest of the film was able to execute its objectives with such flair. Scott may be interested in horror, but he is also interested in picking up the larger thematic questions he toyed with in Prometheus — and once again, they stop the film dead in its tracks. It’s not that these ideas aren’t welcome. Alien: Covenant has some legitimately fascinating notions about artificial intelligence, and how humanity’s search to know things beyond our grasp could ultimately prove to be our undoing. These concepts toy with the Alien mythology, upending it and giving it a spin, to the point where everything audiences have known since 1979 is suddenly called into question. But it often feels like there are two different movies spliced together, resulting in an odd and awkward mix of tones, with each undermining the other.
Perhaps even more frustrating is that Alien: Covenant, in its desire to take things in a different direction, actually makes it fundamentally unclear how these first two films lead to the original Alien in the first place. I’m not going to go into spoilers on this particular point, but Prometheus ended with Noomi Rapace’s Elizabeth Shaw and Michael Fassbender’s David heading off in a ship from the intergalactic Engineers. While the pieces didn’t exactly line up, it did allow audiences to at least draw some general conclusions as to how those events would lead to Ellen Ripley and the crew of the Nostromo discovering their alien-infested vessel on LV-426. By tweaking the mythology, Alien: Covenant sidelines those ideas entirely. It causes the film to end on a note of frustration, like the story it’s telling is inherently incomplete. (No doubt future sequels, one of which Scott has said is already written, will connect the dots, but that doesn’t do much for audiences buying tickets for Covenant.)
When compared to Prometheus, there is no doubt that Alien: Covenant is a massive improvement. The scares are some of the best the entire series has to offer, and on that criteria alone it can probably be considered a success. But there’s no escaping the fact that as a standalone film, Covenant is wanting, neither truly making its own thematic points nor carving out its own unique place in the legacy of the franchise. It’s an expanded universe movie, one with a meaning that can only be determined when viewed alongside all other installments — including those yet to be made.
The problem is that the Alien franchise started in an age where sequels could be complete films unto themselves — in fact, James Cameron’s Aliens is considered by many to be one of the best sequels ever made. That is simply not the same kind of cinematic landscape we find ourselves in today, so perhaps something like Alien: Covenant is the best we can hope for. That said, I’d like to think that Scott has one more truly great Alien movie left in him somewhere. Maybe we’ll get it next time.

This review originally appeared on May 6, 2017 to coincide with the film’s review embargo. It has been republished to coincide with the film's wide theatrical opening.
At first glance, Panasonic’s latest Toughbook — the Toughbook 33 — looks a lot like every other Toughbook model out there. Rugged exterior, covered ports, bulky plastic design clearly meant more for durability than aesthetics.
But the most impressive thing about the Toughbook isn’t that it’s as close to indestructible as a laptop can be, but rather that in addition to being incredibly durable, it’s also still got specs that are just as good as any other high-end laptop on the market.
The Toughbook 33 is a 2-in-1 convertible, with a completely detachable 12-inch tablet featuring a 4K touchscreen offering some unique software features to allow it to function in rain or while wearing gloves. Panasonic is selling the Toughbook 33 in both Intel Core i5 and Core i7 variants — the latest Kaby Lake models if you’re willing to run Windows 10, and Skylake chips if you still need to run Windows 7 (which many Toughbook customers do for backwards compatibility purposes.) Windows 10 users will be able to use Windows Hello using the integrated camera, which also has IR for use in darker situations. RAM is either 8GB and 16GB, while storage is a choice between a 256GB or 512GB SSD. Also available is optional on-board LTE, with support for Verizon, AT&T, or Sprint. Battery life is rated for 10 hours using the standard batteries, or up to 20 hours using the optional long life batteries. The Toughbook 33 uses two batteries at a time, meaning that you can also hot-swap them without shutting down the laptop for even further battery life. The biggest downside here is the size — at 6.1 pounds, it’s not exactly the lightest laptop around (for reference, at 3.02 pounds, a 13-inch MacBook Pro weights less than half of that.)
Of course, the Toughbook 33 is still a Toughbook, which means that it’s tested to survive a wide range of conditions. According to Panasonic, the Toughbook 33 is designed to meet the military grade MIL-STD-810G specification (which tests against an impressive list of scenarios including “drop, shock, vibration, rain, dust, sand, altitude, freeze/thaw, high/low temperature, temperature shock, solar radiation, salt fog, humidity, [and] explosive atmosphere.”), the MIL-STD-461 specification for electromagnetic compatibility, and is IP65 certified against dust and water.
The Toughbook 33 (and the Toughbook line in general) is designed more for police officers, firefighters, EMS technicans, and other demanding in-the-field jobs that need that kind of durability than it is for the average consumer, so you won’t be able to buy one directly from Panasonic, although apparently there will be resellers that will offer the device if you’d really like to buy one. It’s also not particularly cheap — while Panasonic is offering a wide variety of configurations based on specific needs and use cases, the Toughbook 33 starts at $3,649.
Still, even though it’s decidedly not meant for the average consumer, I can’t help but want one anyway. A Windows 10 laptop with the latest Intel hardware and a 4K screen that can get up to 20 hours of battery life and has LTE connectivity? Why aren’t there consumer laptops like that?

Ah, Friday! The most wonderful day of the week, for today we escape our work prisons to sit on our couches and avoid showering for the next two days. If you’re flipping through your Netflix queue looking for some new show to binge, look no further than the CW’s Riverdale. The first season, an easy-to-digest 13-episode drama, just joined the streaming service.
In case you’ve missed out on what’s so far been a small-scale but genuine cultural phenomenon: Riverdale is a modern-day adaptation of the Archie comics. Rather than facing off against the Predator or hanging out with the cast of Glee, in Riverdale, Archie, Betty, Jughead, and Veronica return to more typical teen problems: dating, school, family problems, and murder. The first season revolves around the mysterious death of Jason Blossom, a local high-school student, football player, and heir to a sizable family legacy. If you’ve never read an Archie comic in your life, don’t worry. Riverdale likes to wink playfully at its source material with characters’ clothes or food preferences, but it doesn’t require familiarity to enjoy.

The only thing to know about Riverdale before you get started is that it’s ri-dic-ulous. None of the characters, kids or parents, makes rational choices. Everyone somehow knows each other, and everyone’s fodder for eager gossip. Characters regurgitate pop-culture references so rapidly that they start to sound like they’ve swallowed a TV Guide dusted with cocaine. “I’m already the Blue Jasmine of Riverdale High,” a New York City expat declares dramatically. Archie’s love of music and his signature red hair earns him the burn “Justin Gingerlake.” Betty is frequently compared to the Mad Men character of the same name. And in an especially cringey moment, a character seductively refers to himself as being “too fast, too furious.” Bro.
The kids in Riverdale act like a modern Scooby Doo gang, and the show handles their antics with the same wacky hand. One episode balances part of the cast preparing for a talent show, while the rest investigate a murder. Another sees the squad rushing into a local criminal hangout, tough-guy style, in search of answers. The place looks like the stereotype of “biker bar from the 1990s,” but it’s also inexplicably filled with cages full of live snakes. Sure, the criminal gang that occupies the place is called the Southside Serpents, but why is one gang function “corner the local market on exotic pets”? Is someone in charge of the snakes’ nutritional needs? I don’t think bar fumes and all that yelling are good for those snakes.
But if I had to describe the show in just a few words, I’d cheat and choose just these four: the “I’m weird” meme. Parsed out, the joke is about Jughead, played by Cole Sprouse, launching into a breathy monologue about how he’s weird. He’s a weirdo. Have you ever seen him without his hat? That’s weird.
The meme captures the show’s spirit perfectly. That speech is absolutely trying too hard, but it also acts as a perfect parody of what a teen might perceive as being a deep commentary on themselves. It’s over-the-top while also being sort of endearing, probably because Cole Sprouse has exactly the sort of beautiful, sad TV presence that guarantees he’ll be beloved by fans.
That’s Riverdale in a nutshell: dramatic, campy but fun, and full of very good-looking people. It parodies the real world without actually recreating it, like a snow globe of your favorite city. It’s a warm, safe show that even in its most intense episode, can still end with Archie and his pals crowding around milkshakes at the diner.
Back in November, Google released artificial intelligence experiment that asks you to draw a random object and see if the neural network can identify your doodle. Quick, Draw! was eventually turned into a tool that transformed drawings into clip art based on the best results it got, helping people add a visual icon to their work without requiring any particular artistic talent.
Alongside Google I/O this week, Google has now released the data it received from Quick, Draw! to show you how 15 million people drew the same set of objects. It’s a fascinating look at how humans interpret a random item, from monkeys to parachutes to phones.
Take a look at the frog one, for example. When I tried playing around with the AI experiment last fall, this is what I came up with.
someone at google never heard of keropi https://t.co/rPyiTyYZDU
I wasn’t very confident in my frog (croak) so I felt that adding “Ribbit” to the drawing might provide context, even if the AI might not be able to read. It turns out, I wasn’t the only person who did this (though in general, most people didn’t. After all, you only had 20 seconds to draw each item.)
More obscure drawing cues, like yoga, turned out a lot of interesting interpretations.
Face is a neat one too -- I’d guess that depending on the artist, most of these drawings were interpreted as a self portrait. Some faces had long hair, some had big eyes, some had glasses, and others just looked like a plain emoji.
The result for dragon is one of my favorites. While you can argue that most people see frog in mostly the same way, dragon produced a variety of results — from fire-breathing to horned.
Google said it has open sourced all the submissions so developers can use the data set for whatever visual-based AI they might be working on.
With thousands of drawings to browse through, it’s pretty easy to lose yourself clicking around the Quick, Draw! datasets. So if you were planning to be productive this Friday, maybe come back to this website after you get your work done.
Another dwarf planet at the edge of the Solar System has been found to have a small companion moon. The world, named 2007 OR10, is the third largest dwarf planet that we know about — around 955 miles wide. The discovery was made possible by three NASA space telescopes, and it means we have found moons around practically every large dwarf planet more than 600 miles across in our cosmic neighborhood.
Astronomers started to think 2007 OR10 might have a moon after NASA’s Kepler Space Telescope showed that the dwarf planet was rotating more slowly than usual. Typically, objects in the Kuiper Belt — the large cloud of icy bodies beyond Neptune where this dwarf planet resides — take less than 24 hours to rotate. But Kepler found that 2007 OR10 took 45 hours to complete one rotation, indicating that a moon might be tugging on it and slowing down its spin.
The astronomers then turned to archive images of the Hubble Space Telescope. Sure enough, the telescope’s Wide Field Camera 3 had picked up the moon twice during two different observation runs in 2009 and 2010. “The initial investigator missed the moon in the Hubble images because it is very faint,” Csaba Kiss, an astronomer at Konkoly Observatory in Budapest, Hungary said in a statement. Kiss is the lead author on a paper detailing the moon’s discovery in The Astrophysical Journal Letters. The team then used past heat measurements of 2007 OR10, taken by the Herschel Space Observatory, to estimate how big the moon might be — pinning it down to somewhere between 150 miles to 250 miles in diameter.
The Hubble images definitely show that the moon is gravitationally bound to 2007 OR10, but the astronomers weren’t able to figure out what kind of orbit the tiny satellite takes around the dwarf planet. So the explanation for the slow spin of 2007 OR10 is still unresolved. "Ironically, because we don't know the orbit, the link between the satellite and the slow rotation rate is unclear," study co-author John Stansberry, an astronomer at the Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore, said in a statement.
Still it means that moons are seemingly abundant around dwarf planets at the Solar System’s edge. Last year, a moon was found around the distant dwarf planet Makemake. So now, practically all of the largest dwarf planets we know about, except for one named Sedna, have moons. And that gives us a bit more clues about how these space rocks formed. It’s possible that these moons are the results of distant bodies colliding at just the right speeds when the Solar System was being born 4.6 billion years ago. "If there were frequent collisions, then it was quite easy to form these satellites,” says Kiss.
Medium’s subscription service didn’t start off with all that many (any, really) features, but the company has just added a big one: audio recordings of some of the site’s top stories.
All of the audio stories will be “professionally recorded,” Medium says, and won’t be made using synthesized voices, like Siri. Every subscriber-exclusive story will get an audio version and “other top stories” picked by Medium editors will get recorded as well. At launch, there are a little over 50 articles with an audio option.
The recordings add a much more tangible benefit for Medium subscribers and could help the company tap into the audience that’s long relied on Audible for something to listen to in the car. On top of audio recordings, Medium has published several dozen subscriber-exclusive stories in the past two months. Subscribers are also able to save stories for offline reading in the Medium app.
Medium tells VentureBeat that it’s considering allowing “writers and publishers to upload their own narrations” and that it expects to “experiment with adding different types of audio content” in the coming months.
Evolutionary biology tells us this story: everything evolved to make us better at reproducing. Everything has a function — and decoration is no exception. The peacock’s elaborate tail seems useless, but actually it tells us how genetically superior the bird must be if it can survive even with that unwieldy mass of feathers.
Wrong, says Yale University ornithologist Richard Prum. In his new book, The Evolution of Beauty, Prum argues instead that natural selection makes sense in a lot of contexts, but when it comes to desire and attraction, many selections are simply arbitrary. It’s not about what makes the animals fly better or run faster, it’s about what the animal itself subjectively enjoys. It’s what makes the animal happy.
The Verge spoke to Prum about his theory of beauty, attractive birds that have evolved to be worse at flying, and the implications of his theory for humans.
The interview has been lightly edited and condensed for clarity.
You push against the idea that every feature evolved to be adaptive, and instead say that sometimes it’s arbitrary and based on what the animal itself likes. One example you give is of the club-winged manakin,  a bird that actually evolved to become cooler but less fit.  What does that mean, exactly? And how did it happen?
The club-winged manakin is evolving in a way that makes it worse at flying. The male club-winged manakin does this intricate dance with its wings to attract females. But in order to do that dance, it’s evolved so that it’s wing bones aren’t as efficient as the hollow ones we see in other birds.
We discovered from data that the male and female wing bones are both transformed. They’re all extremely robust and wide and distinct. The male with his weird wings at least gets the ability to sing interesting songs, but the female can never benefit from having these worse wing bones because she doesn’t do the dance. The female who has these weird bones never sings. So how could this happen if all evolution was about making you better and better?
I argue that’s an indication that sexual selection can produce a kind of decadence, in which individuals become worse at their survival even as they’re more pleasing to each other.
How could this happen? Is this the sort of process that leads to extinction?
How could the female make herself worse? This can happen because the cost of her mate choice are deferred to her sons and daughters. So by choosing the male that she likes that makes the cool wing-songs with his nifty wing-feathers, she gets sons that are going to be also attractive, but daughters with wing bones that are less equipped to fly. The trade-off is that her daughters may be worse at survival, but her sons will be better at sexual attraction. So that means that her decadent choices would evolve and continue, even though she’s making her offspring less capable.
Yes, theoretically, that can lead to extinction. This process can be halted, but only halted when there are direct costs to her own survival and fecundity, like if she suddenly doesn’t live as long, or can’t find a mate at all. Then there would be sudden natural selection against preference and that could halt the process.
Can you go into more detail about the difference between adaptive selection, or the idea that every trait can be explained by how it helps you survive, versus the theory of aesthetic selection that you prefer, which says that some things just evolved arbitrarily because animals liked them?
So, there are two theories: the adaptive one says that ornaments like a peacock’s tail and preferences for it evolved because they provide objectively better mating opportunities. The peacock’s useless tail evolved because it tells you that the peacock must be really genetically healthy if it can have that handicap and still stay alive. This suggests that ornaments and beauty tell you about the genetic quality of the organism.
Aesthetic selection says that these preferences co-evolve because of the pleasure they provide. It argues that the animal’s subjective experience — not just external forces — can drive pleasure and can drive the evolution of ornament all by itself. So a peacock can evolve to have a big tail because other peacocks like it, not because it signals that it’s objectively better in some genetic sense. But this isn’t what most of my colleagues in evolutionary biology think.
You argue that animals can evolve traits because it brings them pleasure, not because it’s directly adaptive. But can’t pleasure be adaptive in itself? Sexual pleasure, for instance, makes people want to have sex more, which would probably create more children.
That’s another way of explaining away pleasure. Adaptationism doesn’t explain why, for example, some species require so much stimulation in order to feel enough pleasure. If it was merely about reproduction, you wouldn’t need these elaborate repertoires and mating dances. Why is it that a bird of paradise can sit for three hours at a single male display site and somehow still be trying to decide? Why do they need so much stimulus if pleasure was only a mechanism to get you to choose and procreate?
I think evolutionary biology has a “pleasure problem” going all the way back to the Victorians who were very unsettled to the idea that animals, including people, might be motivated by pleasure. It might be anxiety about the power of passion, and so we’ve been going on a long time ignoring subjective experience.
Some traits that we think of as attractive are biologically useful, right? Aren’t wide hips actually useful for giving birth to children? You write that in the beginning these traits served an evolutionary purpose, but then became “unhinged.” What does that mean?
What happens is that desire for the trait itself becomes its own force, divorced from the original point of the trait. In women, yes, wide-set hips are associated with fertility and the capacity to birth children. That’s the evolutionary origin. But now we find wide hips attractive regardless of whether it’s true that they correlate to being better at giving birth. We like it for its own sake.
Or look at the preference for thinness. Supposedly we’re attracted to thinness because some people think that thinness means health, but there are lots of unhealthy thin people. And if suddenly someone told us that thinness had nothing to do with health, many would probably still be attracted to it. We are often attracted to arbitrary things that don’t tell us much about underlying genetic quality. Just look at the cultural diversity of opinions about things that are supposed to be “universal” like breast size or hip size or waist-hip ratio. Most of that literature is the result of getting undergraduate males to look at computerized women on computer screens and then claim that it’s about something universal about human nature.
Throughout the book, you mention various “genetic indicator” studies that we’ve bought into that have been disproved — like you said that there’s little proof that women with a certain waist-hip ratio are actually more fertile or genetically better. Are there studies in this area that you think are robust?
I think the whole field is poorly supported. I don’t think there are any good examples of honest indicator traits in human sexual women. The problem is that evolutionary psychology as a discipline is filled with people whose intellectual program is merely to propagate the idea that adaptation explains human biology. It’s not dedicated to describing the evolutionary history of people and its actual complexity and as a result, it’s really bad science and a lot of it isn’t even science.
What was your goal in writing the book?
By reframing the biology of sex in terms of the subjective experience of individuals, I want to reframe in some sense the way in which we think about our own sexualities. People today, especially adolescents, are growing up in a culture in which these ideas have become so popular that they see each one of their individual flaws or variations as somehow an honest indicator of their true, objective quality. This is a tragedy because I think it affects how people think about themselves, that other people are actually in some way objectively genetically better than they are. That leads to anorexia, that leads to plastic surgery, it leads to all sorts of unpleasantness.
What I would really love is for people to understand that sexual development is not just the process of becoming a kind of sexual object. It’s the process of self-discovery of your own sexual subjectivity, discovering what it is that you want and like and desire and realizing not only that you have the right and the obligation to discover that for yourself, but that that has been a force in the evolution and the origin of the human species and that in doing that you are being some way ultimately human.

Ford today is releasing a software update to its model-year 2016 vehicles with SYNC 3 so that the entire fleet will be able to use Android Auto and Apple CarPlay. Which is awesome news, because I still haven’t forgiven SYNC 3 for butchering Nilay’s name.
You can obtain the update in three ways: by downloading over the air for Wi-Fi-connected vehicles, by bringing your car to a Ford dealership, or by downloading the update to a USB drive then manually plugging into the car. To DIY the update, you’ll need to download the right version for your car from Ford’s owner support website. Android Auto is supported for smartphones running Android 5.0 and higher, while CarPlay is compatible with iPhone 5 or later, updated to iOS 7.1 or higher.
The update today comes after carmakers Audi and Volvo announced that they will be using Android as the main operating system for their upcoming cars. Although today’s news means Ford now offers Android Auto as an option in more of its vehicles, it doesn’t seem to want to replace SYNC 3 with Android entirely — after all, it recently hired 400 BlackBerry engineers to work on its connected car initiative. Whether that’s the right move remains to be seen, as the first car with a traditional mobile OS as the main system won’t be on the market for at least another year or two.
Netflix’s first Cannes Film Festival kicked off with a rocky start last night, when audiences at Bong Joon-ho’s Okja premiere booed the Netflix title card.
Reports from the festival say the first 10 minutes of the film were also played in the wrong aspect ratio, leading to more booing. The screening was started again from the beginning with the correct ratio, and Netflix’s title card was booed again — louder, according to The Hollywood Reporter’s Tatiana Siegel. Amazon’s title card was also reportedly booed, by a small group at an early morning press screening of Todd Haynes’ Wonderstruck.
OKJA starts, huge boos at Netflix logo. Then film plays in wrong aspect ratio and Grand Lumiere almost rioted. movie stopped. #Cannes2017
The festival released a statement shortly after, apologizing for the technical problems:
A propos de la projection de #Okja  // About Okja's screening #Cannes2017 pic.twitter.com/9tqieHcrXu
The incident follows weeks of snide back-and-forth between Netflix, the Cannes Film Festival, and the National Federation of French Cinemas, over the question of whether releasing movies primarily on streaming platforms somehow delegitimizes their standing as cinematic works. Okja is set for a limited theatrical release in the United States and the UK, and a wide release in South Korea, but it won’t be released in French theaters at all, due to French law that films be kept off streaming platforms for 36 months after their theatrical release.
Netflix briefly considered a limited release in France starting June 28th, when Okja premieres worldwide on the streaming service, but the conversation ended abruptly. Shortly after, Cannes announced that only films with scheduled theatrical releases in France would be considered for competition in the festival starting next year.
Early impressions of Okja, which follows a young girl (Ahn Seo-hyun) struggling to protect an adorable pet monster, were mostly positive, as several critics tweeted praise for its themes, creativity, and the performance of Jake Gyllenhaal:
OKJA: Big pig and big ideas, but the performances are even bigger, topped by a Jake Gyllenhaal role so flamboyant it can be seen from space
Okja =   So many great little moments. So many great little Gyllenhaal moments. I love Bong's wacky summer camp for bored Hollywood actors
My heart bleeds for #Okja. Great film, perfect creature feature, funny, honest /w attitude. Exactly what cinema needs...oh wait. #Cannes17
OKJA: like ET on crack. wild & wildly uneven, but always soulful. A+ cast, 1 legendary chase, everything you want AT the movies #Cannes2017
At a press conference following the screening, Tilda Swinton was asked about the festival’s likely reluctance to award Okja the Palme d’Or, and responded: “[T]he truth is we didn’t come here for prizes. We came here to show this film to the Cannes Film Festival and to people who have gathered here from all over the world... I think it’s an enormous and interesting conversation that is beginning, but the truth is if you want  to know what I really think? I think, as in many matters, there is room for everybody.”
Bong also responded to the ongoing controversy, as well as comments made earlier in the week by Spanish director Pedro Almodovar, defending Netflix as a supporter of creative filmmaking: “Giving such a budget to a director isn’t very common and i had total liberty. It was a wonderful experience. I’m saying that in terms of the shooting and the editing. They never intervened. They respected me from the beginning until the end. Quite frankly they gave me total freedom and liberty.”
Netflix’s second entry at the festival, Noah Baumbach’s The Meyerowitz Stories, premieres Sunday.
Update 8:35 AM ET: Updated to include report that an Amazon film was also booed.
When Google said that not sharing photographs of your friends made you “kind of a terrible person” at this year’s I/O keynote, I bristled. The idea that its new Google Photos app would automatically suggest I share pictures with specific people sounded dystopian, especially because so much of the keynote seemed geared toward getting Google’s AI systems to help maintain relationships. Want to answer an email without even thinking about it? Inbox’s suggested responses are rolling out all over Gmail. Has a special moment with somebody slipped your mind? Google might organize photos from it into a book and suggest you have it printed.
Google is far from the first company to do this; Facebook suggests pictures to share and reminds you of friends’ birthdays all the time, for example. It’s easy to describe these features as creepy false intimacy, or say that they’re making us socially lazy, relieving us of the burden of paying attention to people. But the more I’ve thought about it, the more I’ve decided that I’m all right with an AI helping manage my connections with other people — because otherwise, a lot of those connections wouldn’t exist at all.
I don’t know if I’m a terrible person per se, but I may be the world’s worst relative. I have an extended network of aunts, uncles, cousins, and family friends that I would probably like but don’t know very well, and almost never see face-to-face. They’re the kind of relationships that some people I know maintain with family newsletters, emailed photos, and holiday cards. But I have never figured out how to handle any of these things.
I grew up convinced that people wrote holiday greetings and thank-you notes out of heartfelt desire, and that each one had to reflect a unique and personal connection. I may no longer think this, but I’m still afraid that I seem obviously insincere. I’ll start writing a message, realize I haven’t spoken to the recipient in years and have no idea what’s happening in their life, ramble some incoherent pleasantries, put the pen down to rethink my strategy, and find the card on a dusty bookcase six months later.
But several years ago, I stumbled across online conversations around emotional labor: the everyday work of maintaining human relationships. It’s something that people often think of as a natural instinct, especially a feminine one, and consequently don’t consider real work. In fact, the idea that this is work might seem insulting. But to me, it’s been a huge relief. If I can acknowledge that something is a skilled task and not a measure of my humanity, I don’t have to think I’m a terrible person for finding it difficult, whatever Google says.
It also makes using tools to compensate feel a lot more palatable. I don’t use Facebook’s automatic birthday reminders to keep track of people whose birthdays I actually celebrate, for example, but they’re a great sort of amnesty. I can talk to somebody without having to apologize for not doing so earlier, pretending our relationship is closer than it is, or appearing to put in the kind of investment that will make them feel guilty for not getting in touch. With something like Google Photos, I’d be happy to have simple family albums that don’t feel like they were painstakingly curated for me — or having it intelligently suggest things to add myself.
I still hate suggested email responses, because it feels like my inbox is impersonating me. I’ve got close relationships where I do want every interaction to feel organic. And there are larger privacy questions about a company like Google understanding my life better than I do.
But philosophically, I’m okay with an AI figuring out where my weak ties are and giving me a clear and explicit way to strengthen them — which is something Google doesn’t do much of yet, but feels like an obvious goal. I’ve had decades to figure out how to maintain a social network, and I’ve almost completely failed at it. If I have a choice between leaning on technology and being a total recluse, I’ll trust the machine.
Swedish prosecutors have decided to drop a years-long investigation into an alleged rape committed by WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, though UK police said he would still be arrested if he leaves the Ecuadorean embassy in London. The prosecutors office announced the decision on Friday.
“Chief Prosecutor Marianne Ny has today decided to discontinue the preliminary investigation regarding suspected rape concerning Julian Assange," the prosecutors office said in a statement, as reported by Reuters. In a statement released later Friday, the prosecutors office said it decided to end the investigation because “there is no reason to believe that the decision to surrender him to Sweden can be executed in the foreseeable future.”
Assange fled Sweden in 2012 and has been living at the Ecuadorean embassy in London to avoid extradition ever since. Swedish authorities have sought to interrogate him on allegations of sexual assault brought by two women in 2010. The 45-year-old Australian national has denied the allegations and dismissed them as a pretense for extraditing him to the US, where he could face criminal charges related to WikiLeaks’ publication of classified material. A Swedish prosecutor questioned Assange for four hours at the Ecuadorean embassy in November 2016.
Quoting a lawyer for Assange’s accuser, AFP reported that the accuser is “shocked” by the Swedish prosecutor’s decision, and that she maintains her accusations.
pic.twitter.com/dDvB1Vekhg
Today’s announcement brings a close to the seven-year legal saga, though UK police said prior to the decision that Assange is still wanted for jumping bail, according to the Associated Press. In a statement released Friday, the UK Metropolitan Police said Assange would still be arrested if he leaves the embassy for “failing to surrender to the court” in 2012. The statement said that UK police are “obliged to execute that warrant should he leave the embassy,” though it said that Assange is now “wanted for a much less serious offense” in light of the Swedish prosecutor’s decision.
The US Justice Department is also considering bringing charges against Assange for disclosing classified information, according to news reports last month. Speaking to reporters on Friday, Ny said the Swedish investigation could resume if Assange “were to return to Sweden before the statute of limitation on this case expires in August 2020.”
Quoting one of Assange’s lawyers, FranceInfo reports that he plans to seek political asylum in France. Assange requested asylum in 2015 in an open letter to then-President François Hollande, but the request was denied.
A WikiLeaks spokesperson did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the implications of today’s decision. In a tweet posted Friday morning, the organization said: “UK refuses to confirm or deny whether it has already received a US extradition warrant for Julian Assange. Focus now moves to UK.” Shortly after the decision was announced, Assange tweeted a photo of himself smiling.
In February 2016, the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention (UNWGAD) said that Assange has been “arbitrarily detained” at the embassy, and called for his release. In an interview with The Verge following the decision, Assange said “there must be consequences paid” for his detention.
Everyone's favorite purveyor of previews @evleaks just dropped a bundle of photos purportedly showing the followup to Microsoft's Surface Pro 4. Now called the "Surface Pro" (sans number), according to Blass, it's expected to debut in Shanghai on Tuesday, May 23rd.
Other than some new pen and keyboard colors, there's not much new on the outside to speak of. There's also no USB-C port that we can see, just like the Surface Laptop announced a few weeks ago. Simply put, Microsoft doesn't think that the fledging connector is ready for prime time.
Be sure to hit up Blass' roost at Venturebeat for all the leaked photos.
Apple CEO Tim Cook has been wearing a prototype glucose tracker that pairs with the Apple Watch, according to a report from CNBC. The revelation adds weight to a previous report from CNBC, which said last month that Apple has hired a team of biomechanical engineers to develop a noninvasive device to monitor the blood sugar levels of people with diabetes.
Citing unnamed sources, CNBC reports that Apple’s Palo Alto-based team has already begun feasibility tests with the tracker, which connects to the Apple Watch. Glucose trackers currently on the market use sensors that penetrate the skin. Cook told students at the University of Glasgow in February that he had been wearing a glucose tracker, and that it helped him understand the impact of different foods on his blood sugar levels.
"It's mentally anguishing to stick yourself many times a day to check your blood sugar," Cook said, according to CNBC. "There is lots of hope out there that if someone has constant knowledge of what they're eating, they can instantly know what causes the response... and that they can adjust well before they become diabetic."
More than 29 million Americans suffer from diabetes, according to recent figures from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Among those who have the disease, one in four are unaware of their condition, according to the CDC.
Steve Jobs envisioned using wearables to monitor blood sugar and other vital signs during his tenure as Apple CEO, and the company’s glucose tracker has been in development for at least five years, CNBC reported last month. But developing an accurate and noninvasive technique has proven challenging. Speaking to CNBC last month, biomedical expert John L. Smith said developing such a device has been “the most difficult technical challenge I have encountered in my career.”




There’s been a lot of fanfare around developer Bungie’s decision to bring the sequel to online-only shooter Destiny to the PC, given that the original game was a console-only release for its entire multi-year lifespan. We also found out just today that the game will be distributed exclusively through Blizzard’s Battle.net service, a huge boon for Bungie’s publishing partner Activision Blizzard. But Destiny 2 game director Luke Smith had some bad news to announce at the gameplay reveal event here in Los Angeles: the PC release won’t happen until after the console one on September 8th, 2017, according to IGN.
"We're not committed to a PC date yet, but at Bungie we're totally committed to making a PC build as great as we can," Smith said in an interview with IGN. "Our partnership with Blizzard and being on Battle.net, we want to make sure that this version of the game has the time it needs to bake in the oven so it's a delicious piece of bread when it comes out." So it’s unclear how long it will take for Bungie to get the PC version out.
This information, though corroborated by a webpage about Destiny 2 on Blizzard’s website, does conflict with the Amazon and GameStop preorder pages, which is why, up until now, it was thought that the game would be a concurrent release on both PC and console. It’s unfortunate news, to be sure. But given how many games have botched PC launches of late, it’s probably best that Bungie works closely with Activision and the Battle.net team to ensure the PC release goes smoothly. Because nothing is more souring to a game launch than a PC version that performs poorly and is borderline unplayable at launch.
If YouTube comments stink, and they do, then YouTube live stream chats are positively radioactive in their toxicity. You can pick the most innocent of topics, like say kittens napping in a wicker basket on a sunny day, and it won’t take you long to find a prodigiously persistent troll spamming the chat with Nazi insignia, racist abuse, or anything else designed to shock and offend the greatest number of people. So yes, YouTube chats need a remedy, but Google’s Super Chat idea is the worst possible solution to the problem.
What is a Super Chat? It’s a method to amplify the visibility of your chat message on a live stream by making it larger, giving it some color, and pinning it atop the chat window for a period of time. Oh, and it costs you money. That’s right, in Google’s vision of the future, you get the special privilege of paying to be noticed.
Got something clever to say? Better shake out a few shekels from your coin purse to make sure your fellow viewers note and appreciate your incisive wit. Want your favorite YouTuber to know you’re supporting them in their artistic endeavors? Pay up and they will feel the warm glow of your appreciation.
During its big Google I/O keynote this week, Google highlighted Super Chats in a lengthy segment built around the Slo Mo Guys, a YouTube duo with a penchant for recording things in super slow-motion. The Google presenter paid $500 for a Super Chat, which not only made her message big and bold, but it also triggered a horn that signaled to a group surrounding the Slo Mo Guys to pelt them with a bunch of water balloons. Now, I’m only academically familiar with live porn cams, but isn’t this practically their entire business model? When you pay to have another person perform your twisted little fantasies, the end result is usually a loss of dignity on all sides.
Google’s I/O update for paid chats is the introduction of the Super Chat API, which lets creators script events in the real world that are triggered by the purchase of a Super Chat. It could be the sdtudio lights turning on or off, a drone being launched, or, as in the example above, a loud horn blasting an alert.
The vectors for abuse and deleterious effects with something like Super Chats are simply too numerous. It allows trolls to automate the process of harassing a streamer by just buying a Super Chat and leaving an abusive message pinned. (Google has some spam blocking mechanisms, but no amount of word filtering will completely circumvent things like, say, an ASCII representation of a middle finger). And even when the intent might not be malevolent, the whole "pay the monkey on screen to dance" thing is just distasteful and exploitative.
As with most live streaming things, Twitch is ahead of YouTube on this. You can already pay money to Twitch for animated "cheers," which direct some of the revenue toward the streamers you follow. Or, if you want more prominence for your comment à la Super Chat, you can also donate money and have your comment displayed on an overlay of the stream. The underlying premise, both for Twitch and YouTube, is that you’re supporting the creators of your favorite online content.
YouTube, however, is fundamentally different from Twitch. It is vastly larger and more influential, and its users are not a monoculture of gamers and gaming fans. People do a much wider range of things on camera for YouTube, which makes them more vulnerable to being abused or taken advantage of.
The practical implications of putting the Super Chat monetary mechanics in place are that the relatively better off will be able to dictate what the relatively worse off will do for them. As with most popularity contests, what’s likely to happen with paid chats of this kind is a race to the bottom among creators looking to do more extreme and shocking things to earn a higher Super Chat income. "Super Chat me $100, and I’ll eat rotten food. $200 and I’ll do dessert as well." "Hey, I’ll drink stale milk for $20." "What about me? I’ll eat an entire onion for five bucks."
And what does the existence of Super Chat say to people without the disposable income to spend on manipulating YouTube streams? That their voices don’t matter? Only the wealthy will be able to speak with the added volume of color and a pin. That’s a dangerous cultural message to be promoting among impressionable young people, who make up a large chunk of YouTube’s audience, even if the intended users of this particular feature are an older crowd.
YouTube is a pretty cool place, but the way many of us act on it is far from cool. To improve human communication on a social platform like YouTube, Google needs to craft intelligent social engineering structures that foster a spirit of community and solidarity — and last year’s YouTube Community is a venture in precisely that direction.  YouTube creators also deserve to be paid for their effort, absolutely.
But this Super Chat abomination? It’s as ill-conceived as 2016’s abortive Google Spaces, but I see it as more pernicious because there’s a danger of people actually using Super Chats.
Photography by Vlad Savov
The National Press Club alleged in a statement today that FCC security “manhandled” a journalist after he attempted to ask a question.
According to the statement, CQ Roll Call reporter John Donnelly questioned FCC commissioners after a press conference. When he approached Commissioner Michael O’Rielly with a question, the statement alleges, “two guards pinned Donnelly against the wall with the backs of their bodies until O’Rielly had passed.”
“One of the guards, Frederick Bucher, asked Donnelly why he had not posed his question during the press conference,” the statement continues. “Then Bucher proceeded to force Donnelly to leave the building entirely under implied threat of force.”
Donnelly said in the statement that he “could not have been less threatening or more polite.”
“We apologized to Mr. Donnelly more than once and let him know that the FCC was on heightened alert today based on several threats,” an FCC spokesperson said in a statement.
Today’s proceeding was closely watched and drew major attention from protestors, as the agency started the process to roll back net neutrality protections.
Update, May 19, 11:14AM ET: Includes statement from FCC spokesperson.
Facebook and the MLB announced a new partnership today that will see 20 regular season baseball games live-streamed on Facebook this season, according to TechCrunch.
The games will air weekly on the MLB Facebook page, starting tomorrow night with the Rockies vs. Reds game at 7:10PM ET. According to TechCrunch, the broadcast will be sourced from a local broadcaster from one of the participating teams, without local blackouts. Future Friday night games for streaming will be announced soon.
This is another big partnership for Facebook’s live streaming ambitions, after the company recently announced a partnership with the MLS to stream live soccer matches. And Facebook isn’t the only one trying to build out live sports streams. Twitter previously bought the rights to air Thursday Night Football games with the NFL last season, which Amazon has now picked for the coming season to offer to its Prime customers. Twitter still has some NFL rights too, for other, live content that isn’t streaming games, which still illustrates how important sports streaming rights are getting for social networks.
Google's approach to money is many-pronged. There's Google Wallet, Android Pay, the open Payment Request API it's spearheading, and now the brand new "Google Payment API," to name just a few of its approaches.
This latest system will allow you to buy things — both inside apps and on websites — using your Google account. Most people have a credit card stored with Google for some reason or another, like for Google Play Store purchases, or a YouTube Red subscription. The new API will allow third party developers to charge you through your Google account, with Google handling the security and processing.
If this all sounds familiar, it's because Google actually had a product that it killed off back in 2013 called Google Checkout that was very similar. Nowadays developers can use PayPal Express Checkout to accomplish something like this, but the ubiquity of people logged in to Google accounts at all times does give Google a leg up in this space.
Google is also using this same setup in Google Assistant to facilitate transactions, instead of Android Pay. You can say something like "Send $50 to Paul Miller," and Google Assistant will confirm before it fires off the money — using your fingerprint if you’re on Android. Merchants can also get paid through Assistant this way — in Google's demo at I/O they ordered delivery from Panera using the Assistant.
The new API isn't publicly available yet, but Google is already testing it with a few partners. Payments in Assistant will be US-only when it launches in the “upcoming months.”
Microsoft announced an update for OneNote today across Windows 10, Mac, iOS, Android, and the web, featuring an overhauled design meant to offer improved accessibility and a more consistent feel across the various platforms.
Navigation has been vastly simplified in the new app. Microsoft has moved all controls to be located on the left side of the screen in a series of nested menus, making it simpler to switch between sections, notebooks, and pages from a single place in the app. Additionally, the new design puts the actual information at the center, which Microsoft says will help students avoid distraction.
On the accessibility front, Microsoft is improving keyboard shortcuts to make the program to make the program easier to use for those with mobility impairments, as well as making it easier to use OneNote with screen readers for the visually impaired.
Lastly, OneNote now looks and functions the same across all devices — so whether you're taking notes through the web app or on your phone, things will always be where you expect them to be.
The new OneNote should be rolling out over the next few weeks.

Google has a new tool called Seurat that's designed to take high-end, film-quality 3D scenes and turn them into something that can run on mobile hardware. To demonstrate the technology, Google partnered with IMXLAB at Lucasfilm to take a high-fidelity digital set from Rogue One, which originally took hours per frame to render, and compressed the polygons and textures into something that could run in realtime on its prototype WorldSense headset.
We got to check out a demo, and it did indeed look great. The scene — a dark and foreboding Imperial Hangar — has realtime reflections and lighting effects, along with a looming, animated K-2. It's not exactly cinema quality, but it's better than what you'd normally see running on mobile hardware — although we aren't actually certain how much power is inside the prototype WorldSense headset to begin with.
There are no easy wins left in 3D rendering, and Seurat is definitely a compromise. As illustrated in the GIF above, Seurat works by taking renders of an environment from a bunch of different angles and positions, and then mapping them onto a low-polygon VR scene you can move around in. Based on Google's description of how it works, it probably won't be appropriate for games or highly interactive scenes, but it certainly beats panoramas for immersion.
There’s no word yet on when Seurat will be available for other content creators, but hopefully we’ll have more worlds than Star Wars to explore by the time the big Daydream update hits later this year.
Earlier today I published an article about Facebook Messenger’s new, somewhat improved home screen. But despite the company’s attempt at some cleanup, I came away with the same feeling I’ve had for months: Messenger has transformed into a bloated mess. Commenters on that story agree, and so does pretty much everyone I’ve asked here at Vox Media’s New York office. If you’re tired of Messenger Day and seeing games you’ll never play, I come to you with good news: there’s a much simpler version of Facebook Messenger that strips out all the nonsense.
That version is called Messenger Lite. And it’s not exactly a secret. Over 200 million people are using it around the world. But it’s not available in the United States and elsewhere, so a lot of you might be oblivious to its existence. Heck, I’d forgotten about it until someone mentioned it in the comments.
Messenger Lite is a dramatically simplified version of the app that’s “faster, uses less data, and works in all network conditions.” Those are Facebook’s own words. Who wouldn’t want this?  Remember what Messenger was like two or three years ago? This is basically that. There are three tabs: Home, Contacts, and Profile. Home is a straightforward list of your Messenger chats (with a helpful “Active Now” row of people currently online). Contacts is a massive list of your Facebook friends which I think is organized based on who you’ve talked to most recently. Next to everyone’s name, it shows when they were last active on Messenger. And the Profile section is just where you handle settings, notifications, and so on. Pretty simple.
We recently introduced Messenger Lite, a lightweight version of Messenger that is fast and simply designed for older Androids and markets with slower average Internet speeds. With Messenger Lite, people are able to quickly and easily send text, photos and links to anyone using Messenger or Messenger Lite. The Messenger Lite logo has a blue bolt with a white chat bubble background. 

Messenger Lite is starting to roll out in Kenya, Tunisia, Malaysia, Sri Lanka and Venezuela. Look for Messenger Lite in other countries in the coming months.
Facebook has released Messenger Lite in over 100 countries. But it’s not available in the US, UK, Mexico, Canada, and many other places. That’s because the app isn’t really intended for those markets; it was designed to run on cheap, low-end smartphones and work reliably in regions with iffy data connectivity. If you’re walking around a US city carrying an iPhone 7 or Galaxy S8, Facebook is happy to make you and your unlimited data plan put up with all the crud inside the regular Messenger app. You’re straight up not allowed to install Messenger Lite here.
But there are ways. If you’ve got an Android phone, that is.
Android users might be familiar with the process of sideloading an app they’ve downloaded from a source other than the regular Google Play app store. By default, many Android smartphones won’t allow this; you’ve got to head to the settings menu, go to security, and switch on the ability to install apps from “unknown sources.” (This setting can be switched back off again right away once you’re done, and I recommend doing so.)
If you want to use Messenger Lite, all it takes is finding the app installation file. APKMirror is a trustworthy source of such things, and Messenger Lite can be found right here. You can download it directly onto most Android phones for immediate installation; just make sure you’ve updated your security settings to permit the install. If you’re on a desktop PC, you can just email the file to yourself or drop it into Google Drive and access it from your phone that way, too.
Facebook Messenger and Messenger Lite can live side by side on your phone without much problem, so you can try the streamlined version to make sure it’s got everything you need before uninstalling the full-blown Messenger app. In my relatively brief time using it, I’ve made some notes.
You lose some arguably good stuff, including...
But you get rid of so much bad, such as...
There are no fancy face filters here; there’s not even a built-in camera in this version of Messenger. But you can send people stickers and emoji to your heart’s content. And although voice calling is missing, you’ve got the option to send people recorded, voice memo-style snippets. I do miss Chat Heads — an Android-exclusive feature of Messenger that lets a conversation stay on your screen at all times — but I will gladly sacrifice them for this glorious simplicity.
Unfortunately, I’ve got no help for you iPhone users. Facebook hasn’t released a version of Messenger Lite for iOS since it’s designed for inexpensive smartphones in the developing world. But if you want an easier time running it on Android here in the US, I’d recommend just telling Facebook that people everywhere are very much interested in using this app.
Yesterday, CBS dropped the first real trailer for the upcoming subscription-only series Star Trek: Discovery, finally giving fans a idea of what the first Trek TV show since 2005’s Enterprise will look like. It’s a good trailer, showing off some of the characters, including Commander Michael Burnham (Sonequa Martin-Green) who in a series first will be a lead character who isn’t a Starfleet captain. Reportedly, Discovery will tell a more personal story focusing on Burnham, in additional to the general ensemble crew of the Discovery. That could be an interesting direction for a Star Trek show.
The Discovery trailer also shows a more diverse Star Trek than ever before. While original Trek creator Gene Roddenberry famously broke ground for showcasing diversity on television, Discovery seems to be expanding on that theme, with a black woman (Martin-Green) in the lead role, and Michelle Yeoh as Captain Philippa Georgiou. And like any good Star Trek crew, Discovery also features some new alien species, including Saru (who curiously describes his species as “designated” to sense death).
The trailer features plenty of throwbacks to old Trek, too: The trailer tells us Discovery is set “ten years before Kirk, Spock, and the Enterprise.” There are appearances from Spock’s father Sarek (James Frain) and some bat'leth-wielding Klingon warriors, featuring a bizarre redesign somewhere between the smooth-browed 1966 Star Trek Klingons, the ridged-forehead Klingons from Next Generation, and whatever the hell Star Trek Into Darkness had going on.
So there is some intriguing stuff in the trailer, if you’re looking for reasons to be optimistic about the fledgling series. But there are still plenty of reasons for fans to be concerned about Discovery.
First and foremost is the series’ long, troubling development process, which CBS seems to have completely mishandled from start to finish. Things started out great for Discovery. The show was first announced in 2015, and was set to premiere in January 2017, “on the heels” of Star Trek's 50th anniversary. (In hindsight, the show having been planned from the start to miss that anniversary entirely may have been a bad sign.)
Pushing Daisies, Hannibal, and American Gods creator Bryan Fuller — one of the hottest creators in TV today — was announced as Discovery’s showrunner. That reveal provoked a lot of excitement, especially given Fuller’s reputation for premier television and his history with the franchise. (He got his start in television writing for Deep Space Nine and Voyager.) And Nicholas Meyer, who wrote and directed the fan-favorite Trek films The Wrath of Khan and The Undiscovered Country, was brought on as a writer. Plus, the show was announced to be set in the "Prime" timeline of the original shows and movies, not the "Kelvin Timeline" of the J.J. Abrams reboots.
But Discovery has been plagued by multiple delays — slipping from the January 2017 date to May, and then again from May to an indefinite release sometime in fall 2017. And Fuller was forced to leave the project entirely due to CBS executives’ concerns over his other commitments to shows like American Gods.
Most telling of all, even though Discovery is the first new Star Trek show in more than a decade, CBS seems entirely uncommitted to the series. From the beginning, the network has focused on keeping Discovery subscription-only, as a major draw for its CBS All Access on-demand service. Obviously, corporate concerns will always take precedence in show business, but it's not exactly a vote of confidence that in a media landscape where genre television is more prevalent than ever, Star Trek is getting shunted off broadcast TV. It’s hard not to feel like Discovery is getting relegated to All Access so CBS can cash in on fans' love for the franchise.
Also, comments from CBS Interactive CEO Jim Lanzone to Recode’s Peter Kafka seem to indicate that the network just doesn’t think science fiction works on TV anymore. According to Lanzone, “Sci-fi is not something that has traditionally done really well on broadcast. It’s not impossible, for the future, if somebody figures it out. But historically, a show like Star Trek wouldn’t necessarily be a broadcast show, at this point.”
Network concerns aside, fans have expressed some misgivings about the style of the show, based on the footage we’ve seen so far. Sure, the CGI is slick, but the gritty ship interiors and bland uniforms bring to mind the recent Battlestar Galactica reboot, or The Expanse, not the shining utopian future Star Trek tends to strive toward. It’s an aesthetic informed by more recent Trek ventures like Enterprise and the 2009 film reboots, though, so while it may not be in keeping with the continuity of past TV series, Trek fans will likely adjust to it after the first shock of the new wears off. And if Discovery can tell a good story, they’re likely to find the style less concerning.
But it's worrying that Discovery is returning yet again to the creative well of the original series’ Kirk/Spock era, instead of breaking new ground in another area of the universe. Between the 1960s Trek and its associated movies, the 2009 reboots, and now Discovery, it's the third major return to this time period. Which means Discovery could run into the same problems that any prequel has, in that we largely know what happens to this universe next, at least on a larger scale.
And while it's hard to tell how closely Discovery will hew to the broader themes of earlier Trek series, past shows have already repeatedly tackled the episodic adventures of an exploratory Federation ship full of Starfleet officers. Deep Space Nine showed that there are ways to tell different stories in the world of Star Trek, instead of just slapping a fresh coat of paint on the scaffolding that the original series and Next Generation built. (Voyager and Enterprise also failed to learn this lesson, but that's a conversation for another time.)
But for Discovery, in a franchise whose tagline has always been "to boldly go," it would be nice to see some more boldness from a storytelling perspective, along with the progress in representation.
Ultimately, I'm still cautiously optimistic about Discovery. Yes, there are concerns, and yes, it sucks that viewers will have to shell out for an All Access subscription. But hopefully Discovery can take the stronger parts of its foundation — the cast, the seemingly more personal stories, and of course, the tremendous ongoing potential of the Trek universe — and overcome the issues to bring about a triumphant return for Star Trek on TV. But it’s still got a ways to go to convince me — and all the other fans watching this new trailer with hopeful but skeptical eyes.
The Chromebook Pro was meant to be a grand coming-out party for Android apps running on Chrome OS. The Samsung device would show Google’s ability to not just dominate the education space with web apps, but remove the “native app” issue for anybody that was holding out. But the feature has been stuck in a buggy beta for months and the device itself was delayed. Not great.
We fully expected an update this year at Google I/O, and now we have one. Although Google chose not to say anything up on a big stage, there is good news, bad news, and potentially very exciting news to share. "I don't want to overpromise,” says Kan Liu, senior director of product management for Chrome OS. But he says soon Google will be ready to kick off the splashy product launch we were supposed to have earlier this year.
First, the good news: Google expects the Chromebook Pro to be released on May 28th, complete with support for Android apps running on the Nougat platform. “It will be the first time that we're shipping this new version,” says Liu.
Now, the exciting news: Someday, Liu plans to begin releasing some Android features on Chrome OS before they arrive on phones. “Dessert releases tend to have a yearly release cycle,” says Liu. And that’s not fast enough for what he wants to do on Chrome OS. “We actually want to decouple ourselves from that. Because Chromebooks have a six-week release cycle."
That will mean that in the future some Android features from O could start working on apps running on Chrome OS well before they arrive on phones. "For things that makes sense on this form-factor — APIs and features that we think are important for our users — we're going to be pulling stuff in whenever it's ready," says Liu. Update: Google has clarified that features from Android O won’t arrive on Chromebooks before its release on phones this year.
But of course, there’s bad news: Android apps on Chrome OS will still technically be in Beta when the Chromebook Pro launches. That will mean will not fully support window resizing, docking to the side of the screen, and split-view. Those features will come later in the year.
Essentially, Liu believes that Android apps on Chrome OS are “80 percent” ready for most users. Right now, he thinks the ideal use case for Android on Chromebooks is for people who need just that one app — like Skype or a particular game. Even in beta, he argues, Android apps are ready for that kind of user. He says there are more “guardrails” that ensure that Android apps that expect to be run on phones operate better on larger Chromebook screens. More of them will default to phone view, for example.
But Liu wants to enable a good experience for people who want to do more than just use an Android app on the side now and then, so he’s driving his team to finish polishing up those “power user” cases involving split screen apps, resizing, and the other Android Nougat features we’ve been waiting for. It’s just taking longer than Google originally promised. “The first 80 percent is 20 percent of the work, the last 20 percent is 80 percent of the work,” says Liu.
So while the Chromebook Pro will have those better features, it will take a few of those six-week release cycles before it will be ready to exit beta and get pushed out in a bigger way. Liu puts is this way: "When we do get it right, our intention is to go big."
The process to get here hasn’t been easy, in part because the task is nowhere near as simple as you might expect. The Chromebook Pro hardware itself needed to be redesigned. Issues with the thermals and antennas meant some things had to get shifted around. Google itself handles the software stack, so it needed to tweak that software as Samsung tweaked the hardware.
That software work was just for the Pro, but Google also needed to do much more than you might realize to get Android apps working across any Chromebook. Without getting too technical, there isn’t just a window with an Android emulator inside Chrome OS — instead it’s more tightly integrated with the whole system. But Android apps targeted to different, older versions of Android might behave badly when they get put on a big screen. Google even feels it necessary to support all sorts of very old apps (going back to Android Donut, a 2009 release!) so that it can cover “edge cases and corner cases” that users might have.
But even when Google finally does “go big” and take Android apps out of beta, the company isn’t going to try to get users to abandon web apps. Even when Android apps are working better, many of them simply aren’t going to look great on a big screen. Some will still default to a phone size and Google will pop up a warning to users to resize them. Others simply just can’t compete with web versions of the same. "I don't ever expect anybody to use the Android version of Facebook on this,” says Liu. “Because the web version is much better."
Liu says that it was “not our vision at all” to have users drop web apps for Android apps on Chrome OS wholesale. They’re still largely meant to be things that fill in gaps that web apps can’t fill: like games, downloading Netflix movies, and those weird edge cases. Right now, half of the top ten most used Android apps on Chromebooks are games.
In the end, the story of Android apps on Chrome OS is the same story of nearly every other Google product we’ve heard about this year at Google I/O. Coming soon, but the really big changes will happen later this year. Google is willing to release half-developed versions of its products to its users so they can try them out. And it’s fair to call those things half-baked because that’s literally what they are, half-done.
Or in the case of Android on Chrome OS, 80 percent done. They key is finishing that last 20 percent, and Chrome OS is a big enough deal now that Google can’t leave a key feature in beta forever.
Corrections: This article has been updated to reflect the following: Although the Chromebook Pro will ship with Android N, it will not support window resizing right away. And although it is true that Android updates may hit Chromebooks before they arrive on phones in the future, it won’t be happening with Android O this year.
Extreme floods along the coastline may become much more common if sea levels continue to climb unchecked, new research says. Scientists estimate that as soon as 2030, a 4-inch sea level rise could double the frequency of severe flooding in many parts of the world, and increase it by as much as 25 times in the tropics. For the communities and ecosystems in the floodwaters’ path, the toll could be catastrophic.
Right now, the global sea level is slowly but surely creeping upwards a fraction of an inch each year (0.118 to 0.157 inches per year to be exact). That doesn’t seem like much, but we’re already feeling the consequences of rising waters and eroding coastlines. Tides high enough to flood homes and infrastructure have become more common in some parts of the US like Florida — “turning it from a rare event into a recurrent and disruptive problem,” as a report by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration put it earlier in 2017. In Louisiana, an entire community was driven from their homes on Isle de Jean Charles by rising seas.
Sea water levels are climbing because carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping greenhouse gases are causing global temperatures to warm, which in turn melts the land-based ice. That extra water flows into the world’s oceans. As we keep pumping these gases into the air, oceans will rise even faster. By how much? Scientists are trying to figure that out. Based on some estimates, we can probably expect between 4 and 8 inches of sea level rise by 2050, and between 1 and 7 feet by 2100. The problem is that when sea levels go up, flooding gets worse. That’s why a team of researchers led by Sean Vitousek at the University of Illinois, Chicago, wanted to find out just how bad that flooding could get.
“It doesn’t take much sea level rise to dramatically increase the frequency of flooding,” says Vitousek, who grew up in Hawaii. “I worry that the coastal zone is going to be a very different place in 50 to 100 years.”
The floods that Vitousek set out to investigate weren’t the sunny-day soakings from high tides. Instead, he wanted to understand how the extreme floods that pummel coastlines once every 25 or 50 years would play out across a warmer, soggier globe. Using statistical modeling, the scientists discovered that if sea levels continue to climb as expected, these 50-year floods will strike many regions at least twice as frequently. The findings were published today in the journal Scientific Reports.
Extreme floods depend on the combination of three things. One of them is the tide, which rises and falls according to the gravitational effects of the Sun and Moon. Another are the waves, which can vary in size depending on where you are in the world and which atmospheric phenomena are occurring nearby. And then there are storm surges — where the low atmospheric pressures and powerful storm winds push waves to dangerous heights.
The researchers combined three models that track the tides, wave heights, and storm surges around the world to figure out where, and how often, they come together to cause extreme flood events. Then they added another variable to the equation: rising sea levels.
They discovered that in places where waves are already big, and floods are already severe as a result of natural disasters like hurricanes — in the Gulf of Mexico, for example — sea level rise only boosts the risk of extreme floods a little bit, if at all. But in areas where tides don’t significantly vary the water level, and wave heights stay relatively consistent, sea level rise will turn more typical floods into extreme ones.
The worst effects will be felt in the tropics — the warm, sunny region stretching across the Earth’s equator. Places like the Marshall Islands in the Pacific or the central African coast could be hit by a 25-fold increase in the frequency of extreme floods; today, these devastating events occur only once every 50 or so years. Even just four inches of sea level rise doubles the risk for extreme floods for places like Vancouver, Seattle, San Francisco, and Los Angeles, the study says.
The increase we’re already seeing in flooding today highlights the relevance of this study for the future, William Sweet wrote in an email to The Verge. Sweet is an expert on coastal flooding with NOAA and was not involved in the research.
Sweet notes, however, two caveats to keep in mind. The first is that only 21 years of data was used to calculate the probability of events that occur once every 50 or so years. The short time span means that it’s harder to get a true sense for which events are common, and which ones are rare. Vitousek acknowledges that this is a challenge with studying extreme events because fortunately, they don’t happen very often. “We’d love more data,” he says.
The second is that sea levels don’t actually rise evenly around the globe. So, it will take more number crunching to figure out exactly when specific regions will hit the sea levels that tip the balance towards more frequent extreme floods. Still, Sweet says, it’s a solid and important study.
The dire predictions the study makes aren’t necessarily set in stone, Vitousek says. If we start reducing carbon emissions, figure out a way to remove carbon from the atmosphere — or, preferably, both — we could keep extreme floods at bay. “It is a pretty sobering possibility, but there are things we can do to fix the problem,” he says. Still, Vitousek adds, “It’s going to be very difficult to make this happen without a lot of human intervention.”
Later this year Bungie will release a sequel to the massively popular online shooter Destiny, and it looks to improve on the original in a number of ways. Destiny 2 will add new gameplay features, more in-depth social options, and a plethora of new weapons, abilities, and locations. It will also feature a greater emphasis on story and, in a first for the series, will be available on PC, in addition to Xbox One and PlayStation 4. Destiny 2 will launch on September 8th.
During today’s upfronts, The CW dropped the first trailer for Black Lightning, its latest superhero show. It shows off plenty of superpowered action, but the show won’t be part of the larger DC universe that the network has put together.
Played by Cress Williams, Black Lightning is one of DC’s first black superheroes, and as the name suggests, his powers are based in electricity. In this trailer, he’s described as a hero who kept the streets safe from a gang known as the 100, but after one particularly nasty fight in 2005, he retired. As Jefferson Pierce, he became a high school principal and a devoted father. Fast forward to 2017, and the city’s gang violence hasn’t gone away. When his daughter is threatened, he comes out of retirement to return to crimefighting. Adding to the drama, his daughters are beginning to manifest powers of their own.
In recent years, The CW has put together an impressive universe based on DC characters (one that seems to be far better than its big-screen counterparts), which includes Arrow, The Flash, Legends of Tomorrow, and Supergirl. However, Black Lightning won’t be joining that lineup, according to CW chief Mark Pedowitz. He noted that part of the reason is logistics: Black Lightning films in Atlanta, while the other four shows shoot in Vancouver, Canada, making a crossover between the five stories logistically difficult. That’s not to say that the show couldn’t eventually join them, but it seems like that’s just not in the cards at the moment. “We do not aim to do a five-way crossover,” Pedowitz explained. “Black Lightning, at this time, is not part of the Arrowverse. It is a separate situation.”
Indeed, Black Lightning and Supergirl share a creator in Greg Berlanti, who is heavily involved in the other Arrowverse shows. Supergirl was initially separate when it began its life on CBS, but later joined the universe when it moved to The CW for its second season. While Black Lightning is starting off its life outside of the Arrowverse, crossing over wouldn’t be unheard of.
Pedowitz also noted that Black Lightning is debuting midseason, while the other shows are expected to air in the fall, which would allow The CW to have at least one superhero show on at any given point.
Bungie just unveiled a whole bunch of new information about Destiny 2, the follow-up to the original 2014 online-only shooter. After a series of teaser trailers and cinematic clips, Bungie finally took the wraps off. Here’s what we know:
Destiny 2 will have a greater focus on the story (something the first Destiny famously struggled with), with more cinematic cut-scenes and story missions than ever before. Players will battle Dominus Ghaul, the leader of the Red Legion of the Cabal alien race, who believes that his people should be Guardians, not humanity and wants to take the Traveler’s power and Light for himself.
Destiny 2 will feature new weapons and armor (as announced before, players won’t be able to keep their old gear from the original Destiny), along with new exotic gear. Weapons are now broken down into three types: kinetic, energy, and power weapons instead of the primary, secondary, and heavy classifications as before. The goal is to give players more freedom in putting together loadouts instead of locking them into just a single type of each weapon. We’ve already seen some new weapon types, including grenade launchers, with more likely to come.
New subclasses mean new kick-ass abilities you'll use to fight your enemies. pic.twitter.com/o5h4TYufd2
The three base classes of Titan, Warlock, and Hunter will remain the same, but there will be new subclasses. So far, we’ve seen the Dawnblade, a Solar Warlock subclass with a super that lets you fly around with a fire-slinging sword; the Sentinel, a Void Titan subclass who can summon a shield to smash into enemies and throw, Captain America-style; and the Arcstrider, a Arc Hunter subclasses who wields a powerful staff of lightning. Bungie has yet to reveal, however, if the old abilities from the original Destiny will be available for players to unlock as well.
Bungie is revamping the Crucible (Destiny’s player-versus-player multiplayer mode), which will now feature 4v4 gameplay across all modes. The HUD will give new information like whether your opponents have their Super available or if they’re carrying power ammo, allowing for more strategic gameplay. Additionally, there’s a new Countdown game type with an attack / defend structure being added to the Crucible.
With a new, streamlined Director in Destiny 2, you can seamlessly launch into new activities without returning to orbit. pic.twitter.com/cUv4mv3y5v
The overarching game world is getting a serious overhaul in Destiny 2. Players will be able to launch all activities without going to orbit first in Destiny 2. Now missions, patrols, public events, and more will all be available without having to load back to Orbit and fly into the level. Additionally, there are new “Adventures,” which Bungie describes as missions that characters will send you on with different mechanics and discoveries. Players will also be able to find Lost Sectors, hidden dungeons with a boss and bonus loot. And Bungie says that everything will be easier to find with a new map that will show where and when events will happen.
Destiny 2 will feature some new locations. So far, Bungie has shown off the European Dead Zone, where humanity flees to after The Tower is destroyed in the beginning of the game to start building again; Titan, the moon of Saturn, which is filled with human structures from the Golden Age, and oceanic areas; Nessus, a planetoid taken over by the Vex that’s been turned into a machine world; and Io, the moon of Jupiter.
Official clan support is coming to Destiny. Clans are dedicated groups that play the game together, complete with custom banners and names. There will be progression and rewards across the entirety of the clan for members.
Additionally, while matchmaking wasn’t included in Destiny originally for end-game content (due to concerns about negativity and toxic environments), Bungie is looking to use the new clan support to solve that problem. Destiny 2 will feature “Guided Games” for solo players to join clans to come together for Raids, Trials, and Nightfall strikes. On the flip side of things, players in clans will be able to open their parties to solo players if they need an extra hand.
Destiny 2 is set to release September 8th for PC, Xbox One, and PS4. A beta will be available later this summer.

In a surprising announcement at today’s Destiny 2 event, Bungie revealed that the PC version of the Destiny sequel will be exclusively available on Blizzard’s Battle.net platform.
Battle.net will be used to both purchase Destiny 2 as well as for online gameplay, making Destiny 2 the first non-Blizzard developed game to use the system (which also handles the storefront and online components of Starcraft, World of Warcraft, Diablo, Overwatch, Heroes of the Storm, and Hearthstone.) It’s good news for Destiny, given that Battle.net is historically reliable when it comes to online gameplay, and also means that Destiny 2 will be able to take advantage of Battle.net’s robust player community. Bungie however, will still be in charge of maintaining Destiny 2’s servers.
The news isn’t a complete surprise, given that Activision Blizzard owns Blizzard Entertainment and has an exclusive publishing deal with Bungie. Still, it could be a sign that Activision is looking to build out the service into its own personal storefront, much in the same way that Ubisoft’s Uplay or EA’s Origin services. Blizzard has said that it will only be supporting Destiny 2 for now when it comes to non-Blizzard titles, although the company is also “potentially evaluating needs or opportunities for future Activision games.”
Destiny 2 will be released on Battle.net for PC on September 8th, alongside the Xbox One and PlayStation 4 console versions.
Update May 18th, 2:50PM: Clarified details of partnership.
Bungie today revealed key details about its upcoming Destiny sequel, including a new feature that will make it easier for solo players to pair up with larger groups to do multi-player activities. The feature, called Guided Games, will make it so players who don’t play in large groups or commit to a dedicated clan can enjoy the more challenging experiences like strikes and raids, as well as the more serious competitive multiplayer modes.
In the first Destiny, players effectively had to use third-party services to pair up with strangers for group activities. Those have included Destiny subreddits and dedicated services like DestinyLFG, which let you fill out criteria to be find other players for a certain activity. This was a clunky process — it meant waiting for a message through PlayStation or Xbox’s chat system and hoping you were being paired with a promising group of players. For those who didn’t want to go through that process, the game felt half-finished and isolating, given its online-only requirement and its social infrastructure.
Now, in Destiny 2, Bungie will let players form official, in-game clans with distinct descriptions for the desired level and style of play, as well as rewards that help promote positive behavior. With Guided Games, solo players can pick a clan they want to be paired with, so that when they choose to start matchmaking for a group activity, there will be a shared expectation of the kinds of players they will be paired with, the type of skill level involved, and how serious or casual people are taking the experience.
Introducing Guided Games. In Destiny 2, solo players looking for groups can team up with Clans for challenges like Raids and Nightfalls. pic.twitter.com/HYpGHMKCJ2
It may sound like somewhat of a minor addition, but a lack of matchmaking for Destiny’s harder group activities meant that a vast majority of solo players never got to experience the initial game’s best and most rewarding content. With Guided Games, Destiny 2 sounds much more accessible.
Netflix has greenlit a prequel series to Jim Henson’s 1982 film, The Dark Crystal. The 10-episode revival will be called The Dark Crystal: Age of Resistance, Variety reports. The series will be directed by Louis Leterrier (The Incredible Hulk, Clash of the Titans).
The series will return to the movie’s fictional planet of Thra, where the humanoid Gelflings live alongside the bird-like Skeksis, who represent different kinds of evil. According to Netflix, Age of Resistance will feature three Gelflings who “discover the horrifying secret behind the Skeksis’ power” and set off a rebellion.
As Variety points out, The Dark Crystal was one of only three-feature length films that Jim Henson ever directed. The Jim Henson Company will executive produce the show alongside Leterrier.
No release date has been announced.
Vevo, the music video service most easily recognized for its presence on YouTube, is putting more faith and resources into TV. The company is today releasing a refined app for tvOS, designed to improve on its recent efforts to offer personalized music videos and original content to its users. The move comes as the service sees rapid growth on television as compared to desktop and even mobile.
Vevo’s redesigned tvOS is an evolution of the app the company debuted last year, fully in keeping with the spirit of iteration that has guided its other efforts. With this release, the app surfaces more artist content, including music videos (obviously), as well as the original shows like its Vevo Presents live performance series. In addition, the app continues to learn from the user and offer curated playlists according to their taste. Finally, Vevo’s new turntable.fm-esque Watch Party feature will eventually make its way to the new app, though it’s not clear when.
The increased emphasis on TV is definitely warranted. Across all its platforms, including its mobile, desktop, YouTube, and connected TVs, Vevo sees 23 billion video views per month. However, TV is the fastest growing platform for the service. According to the Vevo, the company saw a 58 percent increase in viewership on television between Q1 of 2016 and Q1 of 2017, and two billion video views for two consecutive months. More than that, TV users tend to stick around for roughly 80-minute sessions of just music videos. Taken together, Vevo thinks it has an opportunity to move its 450 million user base over to its bespoke TV apps in a big way.
Vevo’s new tvOS app will roll out to the App Store tomorrow. Apps for Roku, FireTV, PS4, Samsung TVs, Xbox One will roll out in the months ahead.

The latest and “final” trailer for The Mummy is flush with creepy special effects, Tom Cruise, and somewhat sadly, complete sound. It also boldly reminds viewers that we’re not just looking at a single new film: this is just the first in an entire series of upcoming monster films.
“Witness the beginning of a dark universe,” the trailer proclaims — possibly in reference to the rise of the film’s Princess Ahmanet (Sofia Boutella), but more likely an overt nod to the “Universal Monsters” world-building the movie is doing. While Cruise may ostensibly be the hero in The Mummy, Russell Crowe’s Dr. Jekyll acts as a sort of Nick Fury for a whole mess of movie monsters pulled from Universal’s history. Think the Wolf Man, the Invisible Man, and Abraham Van Helsing, and you’ll get the idea.
It’s the team-up that no one has really asked for, but Marvel’s superhero hits have become the go-to Hollywood franchise strategy. If The Mummy wants to successfully lay the groundwork for a series, however, it will need to stand alone as a good film first, and create likable characters with Crowe and Cruise. That’s a tough ask when you’re trying to make the Wolf Man as cool as Tony Stark — and a gamble when you haven’t even released a single film in the soon-to-be franchise.
The Mummy hits theaters June 9th.
Bungie today revealed the very first gameplay footage of its upcoming Destiny sequel, showing fans at an event in Los Angeles and those watching on its Twitch stream an early glimpse of the revamped online-only shooter. The game, due out on September 8th, 2017, is slightly altering its setting from the initial multi-planetary adventure in the first game. Now, players are fighting to retake Earth’s Last City from a hostile alien force and defend the game’s iconic Traveler, a sentient life form that protects Earth in the far future.
To the disappointment of many Hawkmoon and Gjallarhorn lovers everywhere, all the old gear is being left behind, canonically destroyed by the invasion of the military Cabal species.  In the first CGI trailer released alongside the game’s unveiling back at the end of March, we got the narrative rundown on the upcoming war between humanity’s Guardians and the Red Legion, with its villainous leader Ghaul. (Bungie is calling this the “Red War Campaign.”) In the first gameplay reveal, we get a look at some of the new guns and supernatural abilities — including a flaming Warlock sword — as well as what appears to be an even more cinematic mission layout and structure.
In Destiny 2's Story Campaign, you'll embark on a massive journey to fight back against the Red Legion and reclaim our home. pic.twitter.com/rYa7Q2ApLQ
Since its September 2014 launch, Destiny has been equal parts ambitious and controversial in the game industry. It’s irregular release model meant that, at launch, the game felt unfinished and in serious need of polish based on extensive player feedback. And yet, as Bungie refined Destiny over a number of different expansions, both large and small, the game evolved into a satisfying and rich experience that fully realized the blend of FPS and MMO elements it originally set out to achieve.
Destiny is unlike a traditional shooter, which typically comes finished out of the box with additional add-ons down the line to help the game make money over time. And it’s not quite an MMO, the creators of which tend to charge monthly subscription fees to keep the game alive over the course of many years.
Destiny 2 will feature brand new Exotic Weapons and Armor. pic.twitter.com/zQsu5sKpO5
Instead, Bungie employed a kind of hybrid model fitting for its hybrid title, which the company likes to call a “shared world shooter.” That means Bungie and publisher Activision sold a base piece of software for $60 and then, over the course of more than two and a half years, additional expansions ranging from $20 to $40. So players that stuck with Destiny since launch eventually paid more than $150 for the experience, and yet many extracted hundreds (if not thousands) of hours of gameplay out of it. The value of this experience has depended largely on how invested you as a player became, and the friends that stuck it out for the whole ride.
With Destiny 2, which in a first for the series is coming to PC, it’s unclear how exactly Bungie is going to pace the game’s release structure and what exactly it will feel like at launch. Given all it learned over the last nearly three years of ongoing Destiny development, we can expect the company to have learned a thing or two. We’ll know more as Bungie continues its slow drip of announcements and reveals leading up to the September launch.

The CW’s “Archie Comics for Gen-Y” TV series, Riverdale, spent its first season ratcheting steadily toward the sky, eventually pulling in 2 million viewers per week and knighting its young stars as the new “It” kids of Hollywood.
According to a data dive published on Tumblr’s staff-run Fandometrics blog, the show netted 15 million engagements (defined by Tumblr as “searches, original posts, reblogs, and likes”), and the #Riverdale tag was the 44th most popular across the entire site. That’s impressive, especially considering that the bulk of the site’s most popular tags aren’t for specific properties, but for more vague categorizations like #photography, #travel, or #inspo.

It also means, as Tumblr points out, that a first-season CW show spent the last four months outpacing the tags for well-established fan favorites like Harry Styles, Star Wars, and Pokémon. Beyond its adherence to the obvious, tried-and-true method of “a familiar thing but everyone’s hot now,” how did Riverdale get so popular? The romance and nostalgia angles certainly helped… plus everyone in it is beautiful. But more specifically, Riverdale was written and conceived around the idea of a fan community, incorporating fan service into its scripts before there were fans to appreciate it. Its fandom was reverse-engineered.
According to Tumblr, about 29 percent of all current Riverdale conversation centers around the character of Jughead Jones. Crucially, the character is played by Cole Sprouse, an unlikely personification of internet trends. He was made famous by an early 2000’s Disney Channel show that’s still fodder for memes and GIF sets. He’s cultivated a wry, delightful Twitter presence. And in his free time, he snaps pics of Kendall Jenner for the cover of The Sunday Times. He’s built a brand new career by inverting the tragicomedy of “Where are they now?” and “Look who grew up and got hot!” tabloid baloney, as well as “15 things you forgot about the early 2000s” BuzzFeed culture. And what’s more, he’s willing to admit it.
I only started acting again so you guys wouldn't feel like you wasted money on the posters of me at 12.
CW’s audience is eating it up, and several of the top Riverdale fan-fiction and fan-art bloggers point to the cult of Cole to explain the show’s popularity on Tumblr. Heaven, a fan who runs the popular Jarchie (Jughead and Archie) fan-art blog, explained, “I'm on Instagram a lot, and lots of people were talking about how hot Cole Sprouse was. He had a ‘glow up’ from his Suite Life days. His tweets are funny and he's very intelligent, so I took a great liking to him. When I heard he was going to be on Riverdale, I knew I just had to watch it.”
Riverdale has also instigated an outpouring of fan fiction — mostly speculative “shipping” of the dozens of possible romantic pairings inherent to a teen drama with an ensemble cast. The most popular pairing is “Bughead,” Jughead Jones and Betty Cooper, a duo that generated about 51 percent of Tumblr conversation around Riverdale romances. They’re followed by “Beronica,” Betty and Veronica Lodge, a couple that made up 32 percent of Riverdale shipping posts. But fans have invested time in every conceivable pairing, imagining relationships between Jughead and Archie; Veronica and Riverdale High’s queen mean girl, Cheryl Blossom; and Archie and Valerie Brown, one of the members of the girl band Josie and the Pussycats.
A rudimentary search for any of these ships will turn up dozens of blogs with fan-made art, slash fiction, treatises explaining the story logic and emotional resonance behind each pair, and GIF sets from the series that prove the couple’s undeniable chemistry.
And Riverdale fan blogger Avrealyn points out, “Everything about Riverdale, from its noir elements to its intriguing multi-dimensional characters, the beautiful cast, the fantastic quips and references and writings and storylines and perfect soundtrack choices, as well as the overall gorgeous aesthetics of the scenes… to the colors and the outfits, makes such great fodder for fan fiction and fan art.” That sounds like fan hyperbole, but it’s true that nearly every scene of Riverdale is shot to look like a neon-hued poster. Every frame makes a beautiful GIF, or suggests iterative illustrations.
And the soundtrack is also calculated for maximum teen-fan impact. The first music cue of the season is Santigold’s “Can’t Get Enough of Myself” — from her 2016 album 99¢, the first major music release handled almost exclusively by Tumblr — and the soundtrack only gets more blatantly market-tested and cool-teen-baiting from there. The whole cast is active on Twitter, Snapchat, and Instagram, which gives bloggers even more material to work with. And it gives them direct access to the stars, who engage (generally positively) with their ideas about the show’s relationships.
Fan art isn’t a new phenomenon. And fans write romantically charged fan fiction about essentially any piece of popular culture. But Riverdale encourages it to a degree precedented only by a handful of other recent shows (The CW’s Smallville, MTV’s Teen Wolf), with a writers’ room that’s more than familiar with the internet cultures that spring up around youth-oriented programming.
For example, Archie Comics’ chief creative officer, Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa, who created the series for the CW and wrote several of its early episodes, also penned episodes for Glee. That was another show that explored what seemed like hundreds of different on-screen partnerships. And Glee also saw a massive Tumblr fandom step in to supplement the on-screen stories of favored pairs, and to dive into the rare possible pairing that went unexplored by the writers. Many of the fans who now operate Riverdale blogs told me their interest in shipping started with Glee, or with CW shows like The 100 and Supergirl.
In recent years, the Archie comics have introduced a gay character to the core cast and allowed Jughead to come out as asexual. And the comics have always cheerfully swapped Archie between polar-opposite love interests who are still able to remain friends. So there’s a solid background for the type of quick partner-swapping and sexual-identity exploration that happens in the show. Incidentally, Aguirre-Sacasa, along with Riverdale writer Aaron Allen, also worked on HBO’s Big Love — a Mad Men-era prestige drama about the intersecting relationships in a polygamous Mormon household. They’re no strangers to the dramatic possibilities of convoluted relationships — or the ways presenting fans with relationship choices automatically creates teams of viewers, each enthusiastically rooting for their favorite pairing.
The rest of the creative team is rounded out by more Glee alums, and several writers (including executive producer Greg Berlanti) who worked on the CW’s Supergirl, which has a thriving fan-fiction community around the canonical couple known as “Sanvers” (Alex Danvers, played by Chyler Leigh, and Maggie Sawyer, played by Floriana Lima). Veronica Lodge even uses the word “ship” in Riverdale’s second episode to refer to the potential coupling of canonically gay character Kevin Keller and football player Moose Mason. And it’s obvious that writers took pains to imbue every friendship in the show with a healthy level of flirtation. Betty and Veronica kiss. Veronica and Archie kiss. Archie and Jughead hold eye contact forever. Betty and Jughead bounce every high-school storytelling trope imaginable off of each other. (Their shippers have the easiest time of it.)
The fact that CW, Berlanti, and crew worked backward to make a teen sensation doesn’t mean the fans have been duped, or that they’re on board with all the show’s choices. Fans have vocally criticized the show for queer-baiting, the practice of endlessly hinting and winking at gay relationships without actually letting them come to fruition onscreen.
Andrea, an Italian fan who ships Jughead and Archie, writes, “I’m a gay guy and I look for a possible gay relationship to create for my head-canons in anything I watch or read. In this case, the canon gay kid, Kevin, is not a character I particularly like. It’s not the portrayal of the character I would have liked to see — he wasn't so stereotyped in the comics. So I went looking for other possible queer characters… There is far better stuff to watch on TV, so for me, it's this ship that really keeps me going and keeps me active in the fandom. At this point, I much prefer fan fiction over the actual show.”
Fans have also sparred publicly with actress Lili Reinhart (Betty), who defended what seemed like an intolerant comment about “Beronica” shippers from co-star Shannon Purser (Ethel Muggs), even after Purser published a heartfelt apology. “We are in 2017,” writes Cassandra, a Beronica shipper. “There's still a lot of problems with LGBT rights in the world. It would be the minimum that, on TV, in a fictional world, there could be great representation.”
Sophia, who runs a blog dedicated to demonstrating the chemistry between Betty and Veronica, explains why their potential for romance is so important to her: “If Beronica were to become canon, Riverdale would have an interracial queer couple on the show with strong female leads. There's no show out there like that… that really represents an interracial queer strong healthy couple. We had Clexa, but then one of them died.”
It’s understandable that fans who see a show tailored around their interests, and designed to get their hopes up, would expect the showrunners to hear and respect their requests. Regardless of whether Riverdale’s creators think any given relationship makes sense for the characters involved, or the ongoing story, the might of the online community means they’ll repeatedly be asked about these ideas in interviews, through social media, and anywhere else they make themselves available. At a minimum, they’ll have to think about what the fans they deliberately drew into the fold actually want. Many of these viewers are hungry for the representation they’ve been denied in the broader culture, and Riverdale presents an environment where it feels possible, and even reasonable, to demand it.
The Riverdale phenomenon is mildly interesting, especially considering it’s a first-season show on a network that has had almost no major successes in the last five years, outside of superhero shows. But what’s fascinating is the fandom’s boldness, its intuitive understanding that the pieces of this show were built specifically to be played with.
That kind of fandom is simultaneously the peak of loyalty and its antithesis. Viewers are more invested in Riverdale’s characters and storylines than they are in the average TV show, but they also feel far more entitled to decide when the show hasn’t delivered what they believe they’ve been promised. The fact that some of them would rather have their own version of Riverdale than the one that actually airs is telling. We’re approaching an era where more and more creative properties are viewed as open-source, where deriding something as “not canon” barely even registers as an insult, and where fans who are given a backchannel to interact with stars, creatives, and each other will use it constantly and aggressively.
What Riverdale does or doesn’t do with all this input in its next season will provide something like a rough sketch of the roadmap for the next crop of teen TV writers who choose to loop in massive fandoms. Whether or not these fans keep watching what they come up with will let us know if it was worth it.
Correction: A previous version of this article referred to CW as a cable network, and Teen Wolf as a CW show. CW is a broadcast network and Teen Wolf airs on MTV.
Verizon Wireless will be adding the Asus ZenFone AR to its phone lineup at some point this summer. Google revealed the news during a presentation at the company’s I/O developer conference today, and Asus has confirmed it with a press release. What makes the ZenFone AR unique is that it’s the first phone to support both Tango — Google’s mobile augmented reality platform — and Daydream VR. ‘
First announced at CES, it’s just the second phone to integrate the nascent Tango technology, and this marks the first time a major US carrier will offer a Tango-enabled device.
ASUS announces @verizon 's the exclusive #wireless provider of the @Google @projecttango-ready #ZenFoneAR #io17 https://t.co/YIJjlL98jb pic.twitter.com/gK5vTpxiOZ
Asus says that Verizon will be the “exclusive” wireless provider for the ZenFone AR. The device features a 5.7-inch AMOLED display (is powered by Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 821 processor, runs Android 7.0 Nougat, and includes 128GB of storage and 6GB of RAM. Tango technology allows the ZenFone AR to “detect how far it is away from a floor, wall, or an object and understand where it is moving in three-dimensional space,” according to Asus.
No pricing or specific release date beyond “summer” is being announced at this time. But the ZenFone AR is certainly going to be the nerdiest device you’ll find at Verizon stores, so it’ll be interesting to see how Verizon markets Tango and Daydream to the everyday smartphone shopper.
Chelsea Manning’s nearly seven years in prison ended yesterday, and today she posted the first photo of herself since being released.
“Okay, so here I am everyone!! =P” she wrote, posting the photo on Instagram and Twitter.
Okay, so here I am everyone!!   . . #HelloWorld
A post shared by Chelsea E. Manning (@xychelsea87) on May 18, 2017 at 9:55am PDT
Very little has been seen of Manning, who lived as Bradley Manning seven years ago, since her incarceration for disclosing information to WikiLeaks. A grainy selfie and an official portrait were used repeatedly in media stories about her.
Since her early release — the result of a commuted sentence from President Obama — Manning has set up an Instagram to share new photos of her life outside of prison. Besides the new photo of herself, early entries included a shot of her first steps beyond bars.
Today, a federal court in the Eastern District of New York dismissed a lawsuit seeking to  hold Facebook liable for a wave of violence in Israel in 2015. According to the lawsuit, the violence was encouraged and coordinated by a handful of Hamas-linked Facebook accounts, in what some called “the Facebook Intifada.” The lawsuit sought a court order forcing Facebook to cease providing services to named terrorists, as well as monetary damages up to $1 billion.
In a ruling today, the judge found that Facebook cannot be held liable for those accounts, dismissing two separate complaints brought on those grounds. The result is a legal win for Facebook that could have broader implications for web platforms around the world.
The dismissal hinges on Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, the much-cited Safe Harbor clause that protects online platforms from many forms of liability. The court ultimately found that Facebook’s failure to ban Hamas-related accounts fell within Section 230 protections.
“Facebook's choices as to who may use its platform are inherently bound up in its decisions as to what may be said on its platform,” the ruling reads, citing established protections for speech. Since Facebook is protected from civil claims against particular speech acts on its network, the judge reasoned, the company is also protected from claims against who it allows on the network.
The result is a major vindication for Section 230 as it applies to terrorism cases. Some legal experts have argued Section 230 may not protect platforms in cases of material support to terrorist groups, on the grounds that access to social networks provides a tangible communications benefit. A number of lawsuits have sought to make that case, most recently against Twitter, but it has yet to find favor with the courts.
In a statement, Facebook applauded the decision, while highlighting its anti-terrorism moderation efforts. "We appreciate the court's consideration on this matter,” a spokesperson said. “Our Community Standards make clear that there is no place on Facebook for groups that engage in terrorist activity or for content that expresses support for such activity, and we take swift action to remove this content when it’s reported to us. We sympathize with the victims and their families."
Update 3:51PM ET: Updated with Facebook statement.
Cohen Dismissal by Russell Brandom on Scribd

Google has always used its annual I/O conference to connect to developers in its sprawling empire. It announces new tools and initiatives, sprinkles in a little hype, and then tells those watching: choose us, and together we’ll go far. But while in previous years this message has been directed at coders working with Android and Chrome — the world’s biggest mobile OS and web browser respectively — yesterday, CEO Sundar Pichai made it clear that the next platform the company wants to dominate could be even bigger: artificial intelligence.
For Google, this doesn’t just mean using AI to improve its own products. (Although it’s certainly doing that). The company wants individuals and small companies around the world to also get on board. It wants to wield influence in the wider AI ecosystem, and to do so has put together an impressive stack of machine learning tools — from software to servers — that mean you can build an AI product from the ground up without ever leaving the Google playpen.
The heart of this offering is Google’s machine learning software TensorFlow. For building AI tools, it’s like the difference between a command line interface and a modern desktop OS; giving users an accessible framework for grappling with their algorithms. It started life as an in-house tool for the company’s engineers to design and train AI algorithms, but in 2015 was made available for anyone to use as open-source software. Since then, it’s been embraced by the AI community (it’s the most popular software of its type on code repository Github), and is used to create custom tools for a whole range of industries, from aerospace to bioengineering.
“There’s hardly a way around TensorFlow these days,” says Samim Winiger, head of machine learning design studio Samim.io. “I use a lot of open source learning libraries, but there’s been a major shift to TensorFlow.”
Google has made strategic moves to ensure the software is widely used. Earlier this year, for example, it added support for Keras, another popular deep learning framework. According to calculations by the creator of Keras, François Chollet (himself now a Google engineer), TensorFlow was the fastest growing deep learning framework as of September 2016, with Keras in second place. Winiger describes the integration of the two as a “classic tale of Google and how they do it.” He says: “It’s another way that making sure that the entire community converges on their tooling.”
But TensorFlow is also popular for one particularly important reason: it’s good at what it does. “With TensorFlow you get something that scales quickly, works quickly,” James Donkin, a technology manager at UK-based online supermarket Ocado, tells The Verge. He says his team uses a range of machine learning frameworks to create in-house tools for tasks like categorizing customer feedback, but that TensorFlow is often a good place to start. “You can easily get 80 percent of the benefit, and then you might decide to extend the model in an iterative process working with the same tool.”
Google offers TensorFlow for free, but it connects easily with the company’s servers for providing data storage or computing power. (“If you use the TensorFlow library it means you can push [products] to Google’s cloud more easily,” says Donkin.) The search giant has even created its own AI-specific chips to power these operations, unveiling the latest iteration of this hardware at this year’s I/O. And, if you want to skip the task of building your own AI algorithms all together, you can buy off-the-shelf components from Google for core tasks like speech transcription and object recognition.
These products and services aren’t necessarily money-makers in themselves, but they offer other, subtler benefits. They attract talent to Google and help make the company’s in-house software the standard for machine learning. Winiger says these initiatives have helped Google “grab mindshare and make the company’s name synonymous with machine learning.”
Other firms like Amazon, Facebook, and Microsoft also offer their own AI tools, but it’s Google’s that feel pre-eminent. Winiger thinks this is partly down to the company’s capacity to shape the media narrative, but also because of the strong level of support it provides to its users. “There are technical differences between [different AI frameworks], but machine learning communities live off community support and forums, and in that regard Google is winning,” he tells The Verge.
This influence isn’t just abstract, either: it feeds back into Google’s own products. Yesterday, for example, Google announced that Android now has a staggering two billion monthly active users, and to keep the software’s edge, the company is honing it with machine learning. New additions to the OS span the range from tiny tweaks (like smarter text selection) to big new features (like a camera that recognizes what it’s looking at).
But Google didn’t forget to feed the community either, and to complement these announcements unveiled new tools to help developers build AI services that work better on mobile devices. These include a new version of TensorFlow named TensorFlowLite, and an API that will interface with future smartphone chips that have been optimized to work with AI software. Developers can then use these to make better machine learning products for Android devices. Google’s AI empire stretches out a bit further, and Google reaps the benefits.
Update May 20th 06:30AM ET: Updated to clarify the use of TensorFlow by Ocado in building in-house tools.
When word spread in 2016 that Google would move into serious virtual reality, not just disposable cardboard viewers, my colleague Dieter Bohn immediately put a couple of pieces together. One was the need for headsets that could track motion without dedicated “VR rooms” full of cameras or markers. The other was Project Tango, a Google experiment that used an array of cameras to map physical space. Google only announced the more modest Daydream mobile headset that year, but a Tango-powered device seemed inevitable. At I/O 2017, it finally arrived, in the form of a standalone headset that’s supposed to ship later this year.
Google head of VR Clay Bavor describes the new headset as one point on a spectrum called “immersive computing,” an emerging technological paradigm that “enables our computers to work more like we do.” His team’s been working on this project for two and a half years, and Google is partnering with Qualcomm, HTC, and Lenovo to release a reference design and two commercial products based on it. If this works, Google’s years-long experiments with augmented and virtual reality will have converged into the ideal self-contained VR headset. But the standalone device feels more like a new beginning than a culmination — and it may be healthier for VR if we treat it that way.
The new VR headset uses Google’s Android-based Daydream platform and a system called “WorldSense,” which tracks motion through front-facing edge-detecting cameras. I tried a prototype of the design, and it feels like a solid foundation that could be fine-tuned into something great, if Google can keep to the rest of its promises.
The final headsets are supposed to cost about as much as high-end tethered products like the $599 Oculus Rift or $799 HTC Vive, but without the additional cost of a PC. While that’s a lot of money, it’s not drastically more expensive than what people might pay for a gaming console. They’re designed to make VR feel casual and accessible even to people who don’t have Daydream-ready phones, especially people who aren’t interested in Android at all. “It turns out that a lot of people have iPhones,” Bavor jokes.
Meanwhile, a rendering system called Seurat — named after the pointillist painter Georges Seurat — is supposed to offer image quality that rivals what you’d get on a high-end PC. Andrey Doronichev, Google’s director of product management, describes Seurat as “computational magic.” It takes a rendered three-dimensional scene and samples shots of it from many different angles. As seen above, Seurat uses these images to assemble a facade that drastically reduces the number of polygons the headset needs to render, without a visible loss of quality.
Google can also use the same Daydream user interface it’s been fine-tuning for the past year on phones. A software update codenamed Euphrates will add the features you need for devices that users can’t just pop apart and use as a phone, like a full-featured web browser and a dashboard for accessing settings and other non-VR parts of Android.
But for all that, the device Google describes doesn’t feel like a finished product, or a direct competitor to tethered headsets. It feels like an amped-up Daydream. Google’s standalone headset is using the same familiar interface as phone-based Daydream devices. Unfortunately, the standalone headset also imports Daydream’s simple remote, instead of a pair of controllers that can convincingly mimic virtual hands. That means it still can’t run apps like Tilt Brush and Job Simulator — two beloved VR experiences from Google-owned studios. For now, those will remain restricted to third-party devices like the Rift and Vive. Partners like HTC and Lenovo can’t substitute their own controllers, either, or integrate technology like Leap Motion hand tracking.
Bavor says this will create a consistent standard for developers, and suggests that it might feel different using the remote with inside-out tracking. “Obviously things like Tilt Brush won't get translated to an experience like this,” he says. “But what we've found is some nice ways of blending [inside-out] head tracking and a [non-tracked] controller.” The change is certainly on his mind: “We do updates every year, and there'll be future updates” to the hardware, he says. For now, the lack of such a ubiquitous feature will make the headset feel a bit like a hybrid development kit, no matter how polished the rest of it is.
And that seems like exactly what Google wants. An exclusive look at the hardware beforehand, written by Stephen Levy at Backchannel, is an exercise in aggressively resetting the narrative that VR’s arrival is imminent. In a long essay published alongside it, Bavor pushed back against the idea of a “killer app” that sells everyone on VR, suggesting that seemingly niche applications will slowly grow to have mass appeal.
YouTube, which arguably is Daydream’s killer app right now, feels like another loose end for Google. People can’t move around inside its 360-degree videos, so unlike in the vast majority of VR experiences, the standalone headset’s sophisticated tracking system won’t do much. But Google, which already has a VR video platform called Jump, could change that with cameras that map three-dimensional space as they record it. This is experimental technology, but companies like Lytro are already using versions of it. So is the ultimate goal a YouTube where people will be able to literally walk around inside videos. “Maybe,” Bavor says coyly.
For the last few years, companies have all been building toward their first generation of “mass-market” (by virtual reality standards) headsets. Success meant creating something that felt finished and ready to push out to millions of people. Google certainly seems to hope that phone-based Daydream headsets are at that point — it projects there will be “tens of millions” of Daydream-ready phones by the end of the year.
But depending on what HTC and Lenovo unveil, Google’s standalone headset may be more like a bridge between two generations of virtual reality. A lot of pieces are falling into place, but in the process, Google is highlighting the gaps that remain. For now, that’s not a bad thing.
Thirty three pages of posts on the official Samsung Community forum boil down to one simple request: please add an option to turn off automatic HDMI switching. The first question was asked by CNMark in April of last year. Since then, hundreds of replies have chimed in with similar requests and anecdotes. "Turning on my computer changes the TV to my HDMI... pretty frustrating when the wife is watching one of her shows," writes one user. Most complaints have a similar theme.
Here’s how CNMark kicked it off:
Turn off auto-detect HDMI
How do you turn off the auto-detect HDMI feature? Sometimes my Apple TV comes on and then the TV automatically turns on as well but I don't want the TV to do so. How do you turn off this feature?
Thanks,
Mark
The "feature" seems to be a new addition to 2016 models, but it's not well documented and the inability to turn it off sounds like a bug. It's especially exacerbated by the Nintendo Switch, which causes these Samsung TVs and some other devices to switch over to its HDMI input randomly when it's in sleep mode. At least this can be slightly fixed on the Switch’s end by turning off the “Match TV Power State” setting, as a forum moderator helpfully points out.
On the thread there are plenty of documented attempts to chat with Samsung support — no amount of resetting the firmware or toggling options seems to fix the core issue. One intrepid user, "Sam Soong," started snipping wires in the HDMI cable to see if an advanced HDMI feature was responsible for the automatic switching, but with no luck.
HDMI-CEC (Consumer Electronics Control) allows devices to communicate with a TV and pass information and inputs on through. For instance, the PS4 has CEC, and can automatically switch a TV to its HDMI input when it fires up. This feature can also be manually disabled on the PS4. But there's also an option to disable CEC on these offending Samsung TVs, and it doesn't solve the issue, and disabling CEC on the PS4 doesn't help in this case either.
The best solution I've spotted on the forum so far is adding an HDMI switcher to your setup, so the TV only has one HDMI plug to worry about. It's not ideal, but until Samsung can offer a firmware update or other solution, it's the best way to end the frustration.
We’ve reached out to Samsung for comment, but no response so far.
Russia may have used Twitter as a tool of international espionage. An article published today in Time describes an official report that circulated through the intelligence community, claiming agents of the Russian government sent malware-laced Twitter messages to more than 10,000 employees of the US Department of Defense.
“Depending on the interests of the targets, the messages offered links to stories on recent sporting events or the Oscars, which had taken place the previous weekend,” the Time report reads. “When clicked, the links took users to a Russian-controlled server that downloaded a program allowing Moscow's hackers to take control of the victim's phone or computer — and Twitter account.”
It’s a new tactic for Russian groups, which have more typically relied on phishing to spread malware and Twitter accounts for political influence. Sometimes, those campaigns involved adopting a specific persona. Time also describes a Russian soldier based in Ukraine, masquerading as a 42-year-old American housewife in order to influence political debates.
Networks of bot accounts have been a persistent problem on Twitter over the course of the election. In October, analysts detected a network of zero-follower accounts impersonating American teens to retweet pro-Trump sentiments. The FBI is reportedly investigating similar networks of Twitter bots as part of its probe into influence on the 2016 election.
Twitter-based malware was a particular concern in the early days of the Trump administration, when the President insisted on using Twitter from a consumer-grade Samsung Galaxy S3. Had a foreign agent sent a malware-laced reply to the president, it would have been trivial to compromise the phone. More recently, the president has begun tweeting from an iPhone; it’s unclear if any security modifications have been made to the phone.
Google’s Daydream VR platform is getting its first major software revamp later this year, nudging the interface toward being a more full-featured operating system. The update, codenamed Daydream Euphrates, will roll out to all phones with Daydream support. As part of a larger move to support self-contained headsets that aren’t powered by phones, it will add a 2D panel that pops up on top of virtual environments, giving all users better access to normal Android functions in VR.
“The whole idea behind this is, we don't want to take you out of the VR experience if you need to check notifications or change a setting or pause or do whatever,” says Mike Jazayeri, the Daydream director of product management.
The update adds more image and video sharing options, too. There will be a new screenshot and screen capture feature, and you’ll be able to cast your screen live to a Chromecast-equipped TV — which means that people can see what you’re doing in VR, similar to the “mirror mode” on desktop VR headsets. (For now, it’s just local Chromecast-based streaming; you can’t broadcast live gameplay sessions online with this option, for instance.)
There’s also going to be a version of Chrome that works inside Daydream. This gets a little complicated, because as some readers may remember, you could already access Daydream experiences through Android’s Chrome browser. In that case, you’d be navigating to a page normally on your phone, then launching WebVR-enabled experiences that you could view through Cardboard or Daydream. But with this new flavor of Chrome, you’ll be able to literally browse web pages while in a headset, while also launching WebVR content.
Daydream’s not the first headset to have a VR web browser — Oculus launched one for Gear VR a couple of months ago, and Samsung had one before then. And this isn’t exactly going to be most people’s primary Chrome experience. But it’s another way to keep people from having to take the headset off if they need to find something online. And if you’re already using Chrome elsewhere, it’ll import your bookmarks and other personalizations, like the normal mobile version.
On a slightly separate note, Google is also adding augmented reality features to Chrome for phones that support Tango. You could launch a web app that lets you preview furniture in your living room, for example, without downloading a full app. The AR browser options will be released in an experimental Chromium build today, so developers can check them out on Github, while the VR browser will hit Daydream this summer.
The virtual reality version of YouTube is adding shared rooms that will let people view 360-degree videos together, part of a larger update to Google’s Daydream VR platform. The new feature, coming later this year, offers what YouTube VR product lead Erin Teague calls a “co-watching experience.” That means that small groups of people can enter a viewing session, talking to each other via voice chat.
Teague describes community as “one of the core pillars that makes YouTube YouTube.” People will have control over what they’re viewing, but they’ll be able to see what other people are watching and choose to sync up the same video. People will appear as customizable (but generally human-looking) avatars, and they’ll speak out loud in real time instead of leaving comments or chat messages. “How do you take comments and apply them to VR?” Teague asks. The answer? “Voice will be the way that people express themselves in VR.”
The whole system sounds a bit like Oculus Rooms, which provided spaces where people could hang out and chat through the Gear VR. Linden Lab has also showed off a group 360-degree video platform in its virtual world Sansar. More generally, many VR social networks let people hang around and watch videos together. Google’s co-watching experience seems less skeuomorphic than these — you’re communicating with friends, but under the illusion that you’re all in the center of the same 360-degree video, not sitting with each other in a virtual living room. We’ll have to wait to find out how intimate that feels.
Google’s standalone VR headset, announced yesterday at I/O, was both obvious and unexpected. People have been talking about a self-contained Google headset for over a year, and speculating (quite confidently) that the company would eventually use Tango augmented reality tracking in lieu of outside cameras. But Google head of VR Clay Bavor didn’t just announce the existence of new hardware — he promised a reference design and two commercial versions, made by HTC and Lenovo, by the end of the year.
That’s an aggressive timeline, suggesting that Google’s already got something in pretty good shape. Despite this, Bavor didn’t show much on stage besides a line drawing of the planned hardware. After the keynote, though, I was part of a small group that got to check out an early prototype — and while it’s too early to say whether Google can pull off a fully self-contained VR headset, the core technology really does work.
Before we started our demos, Bavor cautioned that we were trying a year-old prototype using a previous-generation chipset, with higher latency than we’d see on the upcoming reference design from Qualcomm or the final headsets from Lenovo and HTC. (The reference design will use Qualcomm’s new Snapdragon 835 chipset.)
We weren’t allowed to take photos or video, and the black plastic headset was bulky and bare-bones, although it fit a lot more comfortably than some other prototypes I’ve tried. The weight was better-distributed than on Daydream or Gear VR headsets, where all the electronics are packed in a phone on the front. While the field of view and screen resolution seemed roughly on par with the HTC Vive and Oculus Rift, finished versions may well use different components, so it’s premature to judge it there.
Anyone hoping for some Microsoft-style inside-out motion controllers from Google will have to wait a while. The first generation of Google’s standalone headsets will use an ordinary Daydream controller, which offers only limited motion tracking. This could change in the future, but during our demo, we didn’t even get to use the remote — our experiences were restricted to walking and looking.
The operative element we were supposed to be trying was the WorldSense tracking system, which is indeed based on Tango. Unlike Tango, the current iteration of WorldSense doesn’t include a depth-sensing camera. It relies primarily on front-facing cameras to detect edges in the environment and use them as reference points, so the headset can tell how far you’ve walked in real space and translate that into virtual motion as well.
In the first of two demos, wearers could walk around a virtual ocean floor, complete with wandering jellyfish and a circling sea turtle. The second put them in a large Imperial hanger from Rogue One, complete with a dour K-2SO. Google doesn’t give a hard limit for how much space one of its headsets can track, but I was stationed on a rug with a roughly one-meter radius for both; if I strayed outside it, the world was set to fade out.
Tracking is supposed to improve the more you use the headset in a specific place, as WorldSense builds a better spatial image of it. But Bavor promised that these prototypes had been set to start each demo fresh, as though they had never seen the room before. (As he joked at one point, Google is showing us its standalone headset in the worst shape we’ll ever see it.)
Inside the experience, motion didn’t feel quite as crisp as it would in an externally tracked Rift or Vive. My vision didn’t swim the way it sometimes does with inside-out headsets, but I felt as though the world was drifting with me, just a little bit, especially when I crouched to look at the ground. That said, it felt more natural than my time with Intel’s Project Alloy, Qualcomm’s own Snapdragon-based headset, or assorted other inside-out tracking systems. It’s the first experience I’ve had that rivaled that of Oculus’ Santa Cruz prototype. (I haven’t checked out Microsoft’s self-tracked VR headsets yet, unfortunately.) The world jumped out of place once, but only because I literally cupped my hand over the sensor strip.
I can’t say how well the prototype I saw works on any objective scale. I tried it in a room with good lighting and lots of edges and textures, including a cross-hatched pattern on the rug below me. In dimmer environments with less definition, it may not perform as well. On the other hand, some imperfections might be due to the older hardware and higher latency. Both demos had you move around a limited space with minimal interactivity, not a full-fledged virtual world. But the Rogue One setting was highly detailed, optimized radically (according to Google) through a system named Seurat.
Regardless, it’s impressive to see inside-out tracking doesn’t feel obviously compromised. In an industry where hardware can languish in prototype stage for years, WorldSense could plausibly be good enough to put in the real commercial headsets Google has promised — which could completely change the way people experience mobile VR. If Google sticks to its timeline, hopefully we’ll actually see them in a few months.
Selena Gomez released a new song called “Bad Liar” today, which, if you keep up with those kinds of things, you might already know about. What you might not know is that there’s also a new video for the song, and you can only watch it one particular way: vertically, on a smartphone, exclusively on Spotify.
Another thing: you won’t find the “Bad Liar” video if you just mosey over to Gomez’s Spotify page. It’s only available as part of Spotify’s Today’s Top Hits playlist. Eventually the video will likely move over to YouTube, but for now, you’re stuck with Spotify’s mobile app and a vertical view.
This is not the first time Spotify has added music videos to playlists. The service’s RapCaviar playlist often features videos snuggled alongside songs, but all of those videos are horizontal. Spotify’s decision to release “Bad Liar” vertically proves the company knows that people will mostly be watching on their phones, but that doesn’t change the fact that watching vertical videos is still kind of unpleasant.
Apple Music also recently announced that it was going to start focusing more on exclusive videos, so I guess this is where the streaming wars are at now.
The FCC has voted to begin undoing the net neutrality rules that were put in place just two years ago.
In a 2-to-1 decision, the commission voted to open debate on what are essentially two things: first, a proposal to reverse the Title II designation used to enforce tough net neutrality rules on internet providers; and second, the question of whether the FCC ought to impose any kind of net neutrality rules at all.
Today’s vote doesn’t immediately undo the 2015 Open Internet Order. Instead, it kicks off a public commenting period that will last for several months during which companies, interest groups, and advocates can file their thoughts with the FCC.
When the comment period closes, likely later this year, the commission will then put forward a finalized proposal, theoretically taking into account those comments, and vote to put that into the rulebooks.
At this point in time, it’s hard to envision the commission not overturning Title II by the end of this proceeding. Two of the three people leading the FCC right now were opposed to that classification in the first place, which means the votes are there to make it happen.
Internet providers and FCC chairman Ajit Pai have tried to separate what they’re doing here — updating the regulatory classification of internet providers — from net neutrality. But the reality is that there’s no way for the FCC to enforce tough net neutrality rules without relying on Title II as a legal backing. So in reversing Title II, the FCC is necessarily gutting its net neutrality rules.
Today’s vote also opens up a broad inquiry into what, if any, protections the FCC should add to replace the outgoing net neutrality rules. The commission seems skeptical that any net neutrality rules are needed at all, saying at one point that there is “virtually no quantifiable evidence of consumer harm” to guard against.
“The internet was not broken in 2015,” Pai said today. “We were not living in a digital dystopia.”
The commission’s lone Democrat, commissioner Mignon Clyburn, strongly disagreed that the FCC should lighten its oversight, saying that going through with this proposal “would deeply damage the ability of the FCC to be a champion of consumers and competition in the 21st century.”
Since taking over the agency, Pai has put an emphasis on expanding broadband access to areas of the US that still don’t have any providers. His hope is that by deregulating internet providers and removing restrictions on business models, like the creation of fast and slow lanes, ISPs will have more incentive to build out their networks and reach new customers.
Clyburn strongly disagreed with that that line of thinking. This proposal, she said, “contains a hollow theory of trickle-down internet economics, suggesting that if we just remove enough regulations from your broadband provider, they will automatically improve your service, pass along discounts from those speculative savings, deploy more infrastructure with haste, and treat edge providers fairly.”
During the meeting, Pai read letters from smaller internet providers claiming they had slowed network expansion because of the Title II regulations. “Consider for a moment why these statements are so important,” Pai said. “These are the very companies that are critical for injecting competition into the broadband marketplace, the very companies that are critical to closing the digital divide.”
Pai said the public would have 90 days to leave comments on the proposal.
When I go to an art gallery or museum, I sometimes have to resist the urge to touch things. I want to know it’s like to run my hands along a twisted sculpture and feel the cool metal, or to trace my finger along ancient wooden carvings. Most enticing of all are paintings: I’ve always imagined that the texture of “Starry Night” would add another layer of depth to the viewing experience. Of course, you can’t touch precious works of art. But you can get some of that same feeling with Old Man’s Journey, which launches today on iOS, Android, PC, and Mac.
Old Man’s Journey tells the story of an elderly man who sets out on a lengthy trip of self-discovery. It opens with the man staring out to sea, before receiving a letter that causes him to don a giant backpack, grab a walking stick, and set out. The story is told entirely without words. At certain points, the man will stop and sit, and reminisce about his life. Each memory comes in the form of a still image depicting a particularly important life event; the birth of a child, for instance, or an early voyage out to sea. The wordless narrative is reminiscent of short animated films like Paperman or any number of Pixar shorts. It’s a story that’s both sweet and simple, though lacking a bit in the way of subtlety.
One of the most striking things about the game is how it looks. Each area is like a beautiful painting. You’ll come across warm orange sunsets over quaint seaside towns, and dreamy Mediterranean-inspired villages that make you want to pull up a chair and hang out at a cafe all day. For the most part the scenes are still, but with small moments of animation that brings them to life, like tall grass flowing in a strong breeze, or a cat snoozing on a park bench.
To move the old man around these scenes, you simply need to tap or click where you want him to go. But there’s an extra layer of depth to each area that’s not apparent until you start manipulating the landscape. In Old Man’s Journey, you can raise and lower hills, connect highway roads, and move underwater debris all with a touch of your finger. The goal is to create a route for the man to safely follow. Raising a mountain might connect two paths, or it might uncover a hidden area to traverse. Later on, this manipulation becomes more puzzle-y. When a series of stone walls block your path, you need to figure out how to smash them by rolling giant metal gears down a hill.
It’s never especially challenging. At no point did I find myself stuck on any given puzzle for more than a minute or two. But the interactions are playful and charming, and their tactile nature makes an otherwise simple experience feel much more engaging and meaningful. There are a handful of moments that go on a bit too long — a sequence where you’re connecting train tracks really drags, for example — but for the most part Old Man’s Journey is a concise, heartwarming story you can experience in around two hours. It’s not quite the same as feeling a Van Gogh painting with the tip of your finger, but it’s close.
Old Man’s Journey is available now on Steam, iOS, Android, and the Humble Store.

Lenovo is refreshing its IdeaPad and Legion gaming laptop line today, along with the announcement of a new Flex 2-in-1. Three new IdeaPads are being released this June — the 720S, 320S, and the 320. They stand out more than anything else because they’re being released in real, non-generic laptop colors. They’ll probably appeal to college kids. I embedded a photo of the purple 15-inch 320 IdeaPad above, but it’s also available in a red, white, silver, blue, and black. The 15-inch 320 starts at $439.99 while the 17-inch starts at $489.99. It can include up to a 7th generation Intel Core i7 processor and up to 2TB of HDD storage with 16GB of memory.
The most expensive of the IdeaPads announced today is the 14-inch 720S. The S stands for slim, by the way. It starts at $969.99 and can include up to a 7th generation Intel Core i7 processor, 512GB of storage, 16GB of memory, a Full HD (1920x1080) non-touch screen, and USB-C with Thunderbolt. It also weighs less than three and a half pounds. Unfortunately, that laptop only comes in a lame silver or gold, which is unfortunate for anyone who likes fun. The keyboard design looks nice, however, and simple.
As I mentioned, Lenovo’s also releasing another gaming laptop in its Legion line. The Y920 is VR-ready, includes a 17-inch, Full HD (1920x1080) display, a Nvidia GTX 1070 GPU, 16GB of memory, 512GB of storage, a seventh generation Intel Core i7 processor, and a mechanical keyboard with RGB lighting. It starts at $2,699.99.
Finally, Lenovo also has a new 2-in-1. The Flex 5 starts at $719.99 and can include up to a seventh generation Intel Core i7 processor, 16GB of memory, 512GB of storage, and, depending on the size, an Ultra HD (3840x2160) IPS display with pen support.  All these devices run Windows 10. The laptops will be available in June while the Flex goes on sale some time this month.
Facebook Messenger is being updated across both Android and iOS with a refreshed, simpler look that puts an emphasis back on messaging. The app “is now organized around making Messenger your hub for connecting with all the people and businesses you care about,” according to VP David Marcus. The revised home screen layout certainly makes more sense than the bloated, confounding mess that’s on my phone right now. Across the top are tabs for Messages, Active, and Groups. Pretty self-explanatory. Messenger’s blatant Snapchat clone, Messenger Day, still gets a huge chunk of screen real estate beneath that, though.
The bottom of the app has sections for Home, Calls, People, and Games. Marcus says there will soon be a Discover tab down there, as well. This is where I complain again: I wish Facebook would let people hide or get rid of the functions of Messenger they’ll never use. I’ve never interacted with a single bot; I’ve never played a game. I love Instagram stories and will never enjoy Facebook Messenger stories.
I long for the days when Messenger was a lightweight, dependable chat app. You could convincingly argue it was a better app two years ago than it is today. Why must it do so much? Why does the thing need an entire games tab? It was annoying enough before when the Games section would reappear on my home screen no matter how many times I’d previously dismissed it. That said, not everything’s bad. I’ve seen some of the suggestions from Facebook’s M assistant pop up in my conversations lately, and those are somewhat helpful. A lot of Messenger’s features — sending money, making voice and video calls, etc. — make sense. But others are a definite reach.
Facebook says this new Messenger look will roll out globally this week on both major mobile platforms. Maybe I’ll start using it on my phone more now that the home screen makes sense again.
Donald Trump has made himself “vulnerable to fake news” by not adequately staffing the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, according to a letter sent to the president by members of the House Committee on Science, Space & Technology.
The letter — signed by House representatives including Don Beyer (D-VA), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) and Mark Takano (D-CA) — urges the president to quickly appoint a qualified candidate to head the OSTP. The OSTP is responsible for advising the president on policies that affect science and technology. In the past, it has provided guidance on potential pandemics and called for open government initiatives.
“Disseminating stories from dubious sources has been a recurring problem with your administration,” the letter states. It cites a recent Politico story about Trump receiving false information on climate change, as well Trump’s claims of voter fraud and his assertion that Obama wiretapped him — claims rejected by then-FBI director James B. Comey. It is therefore critical to appoint a well-qualified OSTP director that “represents the views of the broader scientific community,” the letter continues, lest the president continue to believe widespread misinformation.
This is far from the first rebuke Trump has received when it comes to science. The president has called climate change a “Chinese hoax,” silenced government scientists with gag orders, and suggested a budget that would be very bad for scientific research. Such actions spurred concern among the scientific community, as well as April’s March for Science.



The Folio Society is a British publisher that releases some incredibly beautiful books, like their editions of American Gods and I, Robot. Today it adds to its lineup with The Call of Cthulhu and Other Weird Stories, a collection of H.P. Lovecraft’s stories. The edition comes with an excellent preface from Watchmen author Alan Moore and with some stunning art from Dan Hillier.
Lovecraft has become an increasingly controversial figure in the literary community. He’s lauded for his weird and horrifying cosmic-horror stories, which launched an entire subgenre, and still inspire authors and readers today. But his work is complicated by a long legacy of racism and bigotry. In his preface, Moore addresses this, trying to reconcile the author’s views with his truly innovative body of work: “Lovecraft and his work endure because his terrors have a higher register that lifts them far above contemporary scares and bigotries, an existential dread informed by his awed comprehension of modern cosmology, where mankind is reduced to a chance viral outbreak on a vanishingly tiny fleck of dirt amid a random and unending avalanche of suns.”
The Folio Society is releasing two editions: a “core” edition and a 750-copy limited edition, each with art that’s been commissioned for the run. The limited edition isn’t cheap at $575, but it looks like it could be a volume lifted directly from of one of Lovecraft’s stories.
We chatted with Hillier about how he went about illustrating Lovecraft’s “unimaginable” horrors.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
What is your own relationship with Lovecraft? Are there any particular stories that you've enjoyed before this project?
I've come to Lovecraft quite late, actually. In fact, it was only in preparation for this project that I really got stuck in. I had read a few stories in the past, mainly because people often asked if I was influenced by him, or told me I should read his stories based on the subject matter of my older work. And I enjoyed it, but it was only in reading the stories that make up this collection that I really got into his writing.
It took a while to adjust to his antiquated and often feverishly grandiloquent language, but once I did, I loved the drama and hysteria and intensity of his writing, and the power of his imagination meant that images for the work came easily to me.
How did you go about drawing these images, and how did you specifically work to capture the weirdness of the stories?
The images are made as I make all of my work, by collaging bits and pieces of 1800s woodcuts and engravings with my own drawn elements and allowing the process of putting these fragments together to build the picture as much as any sort of planning.
I wanted to make pictures that reflected the darkness and mystery of Lovecraft's stories, and went about building these images with the intention for them to be quite claustrophobic and shadowy, whilst also containing something cosmic and otherworldly. I used a lot more black than I usually do, and I wanted all of the images to reflect one another, sharing themes and textures, such as the stars and the black coiling smoke, as it's a feature of Lovecraft's writing for characters and objects to crop up in several seemingly unrelated stories.
My work is already quite dark and weird, so I enjoyed turning the dial up on that.
At the start of the project, we agreed that I wouldn't be illustrating as such, but rather making imagery that would fit with his stories' atmospheres and themes. But in the end, they became quite illustrative.
I wanted to steer clear of making imagery that was too representational, especially of Cthulhu, who has been depicted so many times and so well. With Cthulhu in particular, I wanted more to put over the elemental power and horror of the monster, rather than show a physical depiction of it.
These illustrations in this anthology focus quite a bit on faces. Why?
I think it's mainly a feature of the work I like to make, as the starting point of my pictures is often a nice wood engraving of a face that goes on to be the focal point of a larger, more complex image. Lovecraft's stories are also mostly about these vast, inter-dimensional horrors that drive people mad, or require them to try to comprehend the incomprehensible, and so I wanted to provide a shadowy, somewhat occult, pitch-dark atmosphere, with people up close in the centre of things.
What’s your process like?
I work using 1800s woodcuts and engravings, of which I now have thousands from various markets, shops, and online finds, scanning them into Photoshop, where I collage them and add my own drawing to them, layering and manipulating them until I have an image that I hope looks as if it could have always existed.
Generally, I'll have a rough idea of what I want to make, or I'll have a single element from a print — a face, or a piece of landscape, or a texture — and will build the image around that, allowing the process of adding and removing whatever is found along the way until the picture “clicks,” and then it's a case of tightening up the whole until it works.
Once it's finished, I'll usually have it screen-printed. It's been interesting making work for a book, as usually I produce these images at a much larger size, so making work that is very intricate but that will work in a smaller size was an extra consideration.
Can you tell me a little about the mandalas and what they represent? How did you come up with these?
When we were putting together ideas for the limited edition, I noticed that the reverse of the illustrated pages are usually left blank, and suggested I could put together some abstract pieces that would fit with the book and add to the sense of it being something quite magical and dangerous.
I'd been working on some mandala-like abstract pieces for a solo show that I was putting together at the same time I was making the work for this book, and thought that with some jiggery-pokery, they would work nicely to fill the blank spaces and add another level of weird magick to the book.
The main aim I had for the limited edition was that it would look like a dark and dangerous object, or one of the various mysteriously hieroglyphed items that crop up in Lovecraft's work, or even something like the Necromomicon, which appears in several of his stories.
Photography by Andrew Liptak / The Verge
Yesterday was the day Google was expected to announce the big new features coming to Android this year. It had already announced some basics back in March, but the I/O conference is usually when we hear about the real highlights — the stuff consumers are actually going to look forward to. But the presentation came and went, and the most exciting thing Android got was app notification badges. Seriously.
Barring any secrets Google is hanging onto, there’s no denying that this is one of the outwardly duller Android releases in recent memory. But the fact that Android O is missing flashy features is in many ways a great thing for users of Google’s products: Google does have a ton of new features on the way — they’re just built into discrete apps instead of the operating system.
Android O new features:
If you zoom out from Android and look at the breadth of additions coming to Google’s apps this year, its presentation yesterday becomes far more compelling: there’s a camera that can analyze whatever it’s seeing, a photo tool that can remove objects from pictures, the ability to interact with apps and services by voice without ever installing them on your phone.
Were Google to play the game like Apple, all of these features would be inseparable from its operating system. But for Google, it’s far more important that people are using its apps and services wherever they are — Android, iOS, the desktop, or sitting in their living room. So instead of building these features into a release of Android that will take years to reach a majority of users (the latest release, Nougat, is on just seven percent of Android devices), Google’s biggest upgrades will go out to any device that can receive updates to Google Photos and the Google Assistant. And with Google Assistant now on iOS, that’s a huge number of phones.
This approach also stresses how important Google sees the Assistant becoming. Google is well aware that the Assistant may be the future of Google Search — a core way that people look up information. And the top features Google announced yesterday were about empowering the Assistant to help people look things up: the Google Lens lets the Assistant analyze objects just by pointing a camera at them, like looking up what flower you’re seeing, and new APIs for developers will let the Assistant automatically reach out to third parties to get even more things done.
These features would be exciting as additions to Android O. But they’re a much bigger deal broken off and included inside the Assistant. They build upon the core Google experience, and that’s something even more people will be able to take advantage of.
Google has also put a renewed priority on making sure that Android can run on a wide variety of devices, including on phones with basic specs and limited data access. Building data-hungry features like Lens directly into the operating system would complicate that goal. By separating these features from the OS itself, Google is able to maintain a simpler Android that’ll scale better across the diverse ecosystem of devices it’s hoping to see the operating system on, potentially building a better experience for people using a more-limited phone.
At the same time, the focus of this year’s Android release — what Google is calling your phone’s “vitals” — is dry but important positioning for the future. Google says it’s reworked the operating system so that everything runs faster and puts less strain on a device’s battery. In a test yesterday, my colleague saw a Pixel running the Android O beta boot up more than twice as fast as a Pixel running Nougat.
Perhaps the largest change to O is one we won’t even experience until the following release of Android: Google claims it’s going to be much easier for phone makers like Samsung and HTC to ship future Android updates to their customers. That’s one we’re really going to have to wait to see the results on — it can sometimes feel like there’s been an eternal promise to fix the issue of slow Android updates — but if Google makes a difference this time, that’d be one of the most impactful changes it could bring to Android.
This shifting focus to apps isn’t unique to Google, either. Apple largely had the same approach with iOS 10 last year — the only difference is that Apple’s apps are intrinsic to its operating system. Just look at the list of updates: an overhaul to Messages, new sorting features in Photos, third-party integrations with Siri. These are the same areas of focus, they’re just only available in one place.
The pace of operating system refinements is necessarily slowing now that Apple and Google have taken care of the basics. That doesn’t absolve them from finding new places to iterate and improve upon their platforms, but it does mean that the way we interact with their operating systems is bound to see fewer changes year to year. As Google’s showing, that can be completely fine: it’s able to have an even bigger impact on the way our phones are used by delivering some app updates instead.
SiriusXM is in talks to acquire Pandora, according to reports from CNBC and the New York Post. Given that SiriusXM’s parent company Liberty Media and Pandora have been in off and on discussions for over a year at this point, the talks aren’t surprising in the least. But it doesn’t mean a sale is imminent.
Last year, Liberty Media reportedly made a $3.4 billion bid to purchase Pandora, which was declined by the board of the streaming service, due to a disagreement on the valuation of Pandora. This time around, the two companies once again haven’t been able to agree on the value of the deal, according to both reports.
If a deal eventually gets done, there are questions as to what SiriusXM can offer Pandora besides a bit more cash. SiriusXM likely needs an on-demand streaming service as much as Pandora needs deeper pockets — as products like Android Auto and Apple CarPlay become more prevalent, more users will move away from traditional and satellite radio (SiriusXM) and rely on the apps on their phones (and thusly in their infotainment systems) like Apple Music, ESPN, and Pandora for their music and morning radio shows.
Given the constant chatting these two companies have kept up since last year, a deal is still possible, but if SiriusXM is looking to acquire Pandora at a reduced cost like its parent company tried to do last year, this may not be resolved anytime soon. Pandora’s CEO Tim Westergren nor its board seems to be in a discounting mood.
Pandora declined to comment.
Now that Google Assistant has officially arrived to the iPhone (at least, for US-based users) a lot of people may be wondering why Google pushed the AI as a separate app from the main one. Here’s an overview of the differences between the two.
While it’s not officially called “Google Search” (and rather, just its plain ol’ namesake), many people refer to it as such because that’s essentially what the app is designed for. iOS users can download the app to add a nice little search widget on their home screen, using it to quickly look up things as you would on the website.
You can search on Google Assistant too, but Google says it wanted to keep the two apps separate because some people may not want the AI capabilities if they’re already happy and used to Siri. You can argue that Siri is not the best for search (it defaults to Bing and Apple Maps for directions, for example) so keeping the Google app on hand is helpful for general queries, searches for nearby businesses, and quick updates like sports scores and movie showtimes. The Search app has also been continuously updated to provide search results basically instantaneously.
Where the Google Assistant comes in handy is personal preference-based requests. The AI is designed to be conversational, combining search queries with task completions. For example, if you asked what restaurants are nearby, you can select from the results and follow up with a request to book a reservation. You can also tell Google Assistant your favorite genre of movies, types of food, and even your family members’ or significant other’s names so it has a record of all this information in order to provide the most relevant responses.
The Assistant will also gain third-party Actions, which allows you to control smart home gadgets or order food deliveries without leaving the app or manually entering an address and credit card number.
Though Google Assistant is designed to take on Siri, there are several things it cannot do on an iPhone. For example, you can’t use it to take a screenshot and share it on the web like you could on an Android, ask it to take a selfie, or use it to set alarms. Requesting Google Assistant to make calls or send an iMessage works, but it’s a couple of steps longer than just using Siri. You also can’t easily wake Google Assistant with the “OK Google” voice command or holding the home button — instead, you have to launch the actual app or hold the microphone down from the widget. Google blames these limitations to the API it was given to port the Assistant to iOS.
Restrictions aside, once Google Lens arrives to the Assistant, you’ll have a much better contextual image search which includes things like taking a photo of the Wi-Fi router and automatically log in to the network, or hover the camera over a concert hall marquee to learn more about the band. It’s also going to bring on the Word Lens feature from the Translate app to help translate foreign languages. Siri can’t do all these things (not yet anyway) and neither can the iOS Google app.
With Google Lens, your smartphone camera won’t just see what you see, but will also understand what you see to help you take action. #io17 pic.twitter.com/viOmWFjqk1
If you’re already happy with using Siri as an assistant for search, setting reminders, booking reservations, and launching apps, you probably won’t need the Assistant on top of the additional Google Search app. (You also may not need the Search app at all, if you’re satisfied with just asking Siri to “Google” something.) But if things like HomeKit has been disappointing you with their limited ecosystems, or you want to combine better search with task requests, perhaps the Assistant is the better AI for you. Either way, Google wants to give you the option to stick with just search if that’s all you need it for on an iPhone.
To give Google Assistant a shot, you can download it from the App Store for free here.
Kickstarter announced the launch of a new program today, called Hardware Studio, that’s designed to help startups navigate the dizzying world of manufacturing. The studio is the result of a partnership with two companies: Avnet, a large electronic components distributor, and Dragon Innovation, which helps small teams develop production plans. The Hardware Studio won’t do everything for startups, but it’ll serve as a jumping off point for DIY creators who have an idea for a product but no clue where to start with manufacturing.
The program has two components: education and connection. Educating creators comes in the form of the Hardware Studio Toolkit, a new community site that’ll host tutorials, webinars, and tools from Avnet and Dragon. To participate in the second aspect — connection — creators will have to fill out an application in which they’ll likely just have to provide extra details on their projects. If Avnet or Dragon accept the application, these creators will have access to additional tools, like a product planner for helping keep track of their needed materials, as well as office hours with engineers. Accepted creators can also receive discounts for additional consultation time. In theory, Avnet and Dragon could take an idea and fully bring it to life through their manufacturing connections in China and marketing expertise. Some crowdfunding campaigns might not want to pay for that knowledge, but Kickstarter is sure they’ll at least want to check out the free offerings. Indiegogo provides a similar service through a partnership with Arrow Electronics and Riverwood Solutions.
Of course, this entire program is aimed at preventing Kickstarter meltdowns in which backers never receive a product after fronting some cash. Julio Terra, head of tech projects, told The Verge that many startups don’t realize that by just “selecting the wrong part, it can make [their] product fail or push it back six months.” Sure, the company can’t force anyone to take advantage of these resources or dish out money for consulting, but it can at least point them in the right direction. Still, Terra explained that he doesn’t see it as completely cutting out the risk of crowdfunding. Risk is fundamental to innovation, he says, but at the same time, he and Kickstarter want to maximize backers’ chance of getting a product [while] also [increasing] creators’ chance of succeeding.”
The moral here? You’ll definitely still want to think twice before backing a campaign, but at least Kickstarter recognizes backers’ gripes.
Several years ago, when Kenta Nakanishi’s father passed away, he left his son a handful of personal items. Among them was a copy of Fire Emblem Gaiden for the Nintendo Famicom. “I played it many times,” Nakanishi says, “and I have a strong attachment to the game.” Nakanishi ended up getting a job at Nintendo straight out of university in 2009, and after a few years he got a chance to work on the beloved strategy series, serving in a technical support role on Fire Emblem Awakening. More recently, he took on his first role as a director on Fire Emblem Echoes: Shadows of Valentia. But it’s not just a new game in the series — it’s a modern remake of Fire Emblem Gaiden. “It made me love the game even more,” he says of working on the new version.
Fire Emblem Echoes launches tomorrow on the Nintendo 3DS, and for Nakanishi and the developers at Nintendo and Intelligent Systems, it’s a chance to introduce an entirely new audience to the original game. Fire Emblem Gaiden debuted on the Famicom in 1992, and in the ensuing years was never released outside of Japan. But since then, the series has grown in global popularity quite a bit. 2017 in particular feels like a breakout moment for the franchise. Earlier this year Fire Emblem Heroes debuted on mobile, becoming even more lucrative than Super Mario Run, while later this year will see the launch of spin-off Fire Emblem Warriors on Nintendo Switch. A second, currently untitled Switch game is also scheduled for next year.
As a 25-year-old game, Fire Emblem Gaiden needed to be updated in a number of ways to make it more accessible for a modern audience. Fire Emblem Echoes features enhanced graphics, 3D dungeons to explore, and more interactive towns where you can talk to characters and learn more about the world. Many of the changes were made because of the fan response to more recent games in the series — namely that Fire Emblem fans get really attached to characters. Echoes features a much more in-depth narrative (the original actually relegated key story moments to the instruction manual), while introducing new characters and fully-voiced dialogue, a first for the series. Japanese illustrator Hidari, also known under the pseudonym “Left Side,” was brought on board to make more appealing character designs.
The biggest challenge was balancing the addition of these new features with maintaining the essence of the original experience. “We wanted to take the original RPG elements from Gaiden,” explains Toshiyuki Kusakihara, director at Intelligent Systems, “and make it more modern and deeper.” Nakanishi adds that “One of the things that was hard for us, was [deciding] how much of the original elements to leave.” Gaiden includes several features that are unique among Fire Emblem games. Casting magic spells will reduce your health, for instance, while at the end of each dungeon you’ll find a stat-increasing shrine. The series has largely moved on from these elements in subsequent games, but those two features in particular were left in Echoes to retain some of the feeling of the original.
Of course, for fans outside of Japan, Echoes is essentially a brand new game. And because of this it was designed to be more approachable for players who are new to the game or the series. Echoes introduces an optional casual mode that eases up the difficulty, while the name of the game itself was changed so that those unfamiliar with Gaiden wouldn’t be confused. “Because it wasn’t released outside of Japan, and gaiden means side story, people would think ‘What is the side story for?’” says Nakanishi. “So we thought we’d come up with a new title.”
Fire Emblem Gaiden isn’t the only game in the franchise to never make it outside of Japan. In fact, it wasn’t until 2003’s Fire Emblem on Game Boy Advance, the seventh entry in the series, that a main Fire Emblem game launched overseas. Two years prior to that, though, Fire Emblem: Binding Blade star Roy was featured in Nintendo’s global fighting game hit Super Smash Bros. Melee on the GameCube, igniting some early interest in the series. Nintendo hasn’t announced any further remakes for the future — but if Nakanishi had to pick, he knows what game he’d choose. “Unfortunately his story has never been told,” he says of Roy, “so it would be great if we could release a remake of his story.”
Walk into any McDonald’s in the world and, other than some localized decorations and special menu items, it’s essentially the same thing as any other: same burgers, same fries, same macronutrient (im)balance, same standards of cleanliness and speed of service. That’s the goal, anyway, and our expectations of globalized services of this kind can be summarized in one word: consistency. Well, having spent the better part of a week in Silicon Valley to cover Google I/O, let me tell you, Uber is not one of these consistent operators. Not even close.
In my native Europe, hailing a ride via Uber takes a few minutes. This makes sense, because not every car on the road is an Uber driver, and not every Uber driver is free to respond to my whims. In Palo Alto, on other hand, Ubers arrive within seconds. Same for San Francisco, which seems to have completely abandoned the concept of conventional taxis in favor of a fleet of supposedly self-employed Uberinos. It’s simultaneously bewildering and seductive.
Seductive because it’s a frightfully responsive, almost instant, service, the likes of which I’d never previously experienced. I can see why people stick with it, even through all the awfulness of its internal culture and the boorish behavior of its CEO. Though my experience was only anecdotal, the extreme nature of what I saw was striking. Seeing Uber operating in its native environment, I witnessed small groups of two or three people systematically jumping into unmarked cars on every San Francisco street corner. I’m willing to bet that a substantial proportion of Silicon Valley productivity has grown dependent on Uber as the primary means of transportation.
Sitting in my home office in London, I was one of the people scratching his head at Uber’s stratospheric, multibillion-dollar valuation at a time when the company is still losing money at a scary rate. But now that I’m here in the extraordinarily wealthy tech capital of the world, observing how instrumental Uber has become to people’s lives, I get it. I absolutely don’t agree with it, and I’m not at all proud to still be using Uber myself, but I can understand why Uber is valued so highly by the people residing in Silicon Valley. This, the ultimate in bubble communities, receives and appreciates an Uber service that is alien to the rest of us.
The bewildering part, of course, has to do with the sheer amount of human resources required to make something like this work.
And it seems like that’s what Uber has. The technology is certainly no different, I’m still using the same app that I’ve used in practically every European capital, but the speed is an order of magnitude greater. I don’t know how anyone else feels about this, but it makes me a little queasy to think that there are that many people tasked with the mindless job of ferrying privileged tech types around.
Though I’ve been most perturbed by the stark disparity between the European and American Uber experience, that’s not to say that there aren’t differences on a more local level as well. Denmark has kicked Uber out, Portugal, Spain, and Italy have set up an anti-Uber taxi alliance, and hailing an Uber in Switzerland is a borderline illegal affair. I can’t catch an Uber in Barcelona, it’s a little tricky in Berlin, but I can find one quite easily in London or Paris.
I don’t know that there’s any great moral to this story, other than the observation that complex things can and do vary with geographies and cultures. Perhaps if Uber would commit to treating its drivers as employees, it could institute more universal standards — both of availability and quality of service, which is also all over the place — but the company seems likely to develop driverless cars sooner than it admits to the reality of its employment situation.
In any case, for those of us judging Uber on the basis of what it’s like in our local city or conurbation, I have to say that we don’t really know the true Uber. For that, you’d have to go right to the Silicon Valley source.
After getting a peek from Travis Kalanick earlier this month, Uber today officially launched Uber Freight, the company’s new service that will match truckers with companies who need cargo shipped across the country.
Uber Freight has its own app, of course, which is available today on iOS and Android. There’s a sign-up page for drivers, who will be vetted before they’re allowed to use the Uber Freight. The service “take[s] guesswork out of finding and booking freight, which is often the most stressful part of a driver’s day,” according to Uber, which says it’s dismantling a process that typically takes “several hours and multiple phone calls.”
The video Uber released makes the process look as simple as using its existing cab service. The app is full of a list of available jobs and the routes they require (say, Tulsa, OK to Memphis, TN), and each listing tells the driver what they’ll be hauling and how much they’ll be paid. Once they arrive in that destination and make the delivery they can then, like an Uber cab driver, find the next job.
Uber says that Uber Freight will help “level the playing field” for truckers, perhaps hinting at the inequality that plagues the trucking industry. Trucking is dominated by white men, and accounts of women and drivers of color facing discrimination while trying to break into the workforce are well documented. The biggest point of friction in these situations is building and maintaining relationships with the companies that hire drivers, so a service like the one Uber is offering could help alleviate that tension.
But because trucking is so physically demanding and time consuming, it typically requires lots of planning and budget monitoring on the part of the driver. As an Uber taxi driver, it might be fine if you drop a passenger off in a neighborhood with no return trips. That’s a much bigger problem if you’ve just driven 1,500 miles from home.
Uber’s not the only company trying to change the trucking industry. Amazon is reportedly working on a similar service that would pair drivers with companies that need goods delivered. Manufacturers big and small are also working on bringing semi-or fully-autonomous technology to long haul trucks.
Uber, of course, is also working on self-driving trucks following its acquisition of Otto. But while Otto may be at the core of Uber’s trucking ambitions, it’s also the center of the lawsuit filed by Waymo, the self-driving car division of Google’s parent company Alphabet. Waymo claims that Anthony Levandowski, a former Google engineer who founded the Otto, was using the startup as a shell company in order to steal Google’s self-driving tech and pass it on to Uber. That case is currently set to go to trial.

Our news week edition of Ctrl-Walt-Delete continues! Google I/O 2017 kicked off on Wednesday, and we recorded this week's episode of Ctrl-Walt-Delete immediately after the opening keynote to get it in to the episode for you. There was a lot that happened so Walt and Nilay break it down for you.
Also, the duo talk a little bit about the Windows hack that was leaked from the NSA and what this could mean for Microsoft and software updates in the future.
We love your feedback on the topics of the show and suggestions on how to make our podcasts better and more fun. You can tweet at Walt at @waltmossberg and Nilay at @reckless. And of course, we'd love it if you subscribed on iTunes (here's the direct RSS feed, if you like), along with The Verge's other podcasts The Vergecast and Verge Extras. You might also want to check out Recode Decode, hosted by Kara Swisher, and Too Embarrassed to Ask featuring The Verge's Lauren Goode.
And hey, have Ctrl-Walt-Delete T-shirts! Check out our merch store here.
Cameras are everywhere yet nowhere at the same time. Nobody buys cameras anymore. Instead we use the good-enough camera that comes as standard equipment on our phones, which these days is pretty damn good. Nevertheless, you’ll still have to accessorize the hell out of it to make your pics pop and your videos sing as beautifully as dedicated shooters. That means snap-on lenses, battery cases, selfie flashes, and external storage, to name but a few. The 3-axis gimbal is perhaps the most audacious cameraphone accessory, with prices starting at about $300. At least that was before an upstart named Rigiet hit Kickstarter with a gimbal for half that price, yet still claims to be the "most advanced stabilizer" in the world.
Rigiet is a stabilizing 3-axis gimbal that works with most GoPro cameras (via adapter) and phones with screen sizes up to about 5.5-inches. It's very similar to the Osmo Mobile from DJI in that it dramatically smooths and automates your handheld video production. It features seven shooting modes including Auto Tracking, which uses computer vision to follow an onscreen object, and Motion Time Lapse to create dramatic time lapses as the camera pans across a scene.
Last night's sunset captured with Rigiet motion time lapse
A post shared by Trixxy (@trixxy) on May 7, 2017 at 4:23am PDT
As a first time gimbal user, I have to admit to being easily impressed by what the Rigiet can do. The onboard optical image stabilization of my iPhone has nothing on a 3-axis gimbal, especially gimbals with computer vision software and advanced shooting modes. But that praise can be lavished equally on the DJI Osmo Mobile as well.
The price is what makes this gimbal a standout accessory. It has most every advanced hardware and software feature you'll find on the $299 DJI Osmo Mobile, but lists on Kickstarter for just $144 (the $129 super early bird levels are gone) and includes a GoPro mount. Rigiet will cost $229 after the campaign.
Rigiet also features two microUSB jacks that allow you simultaneously charge your phone and the Rigiet from an external power source like a portable battery. It's a bit of a kludge that requires a couple of microUSB cables dangling off the stick, but it lets your shoot all day long, or at least until your phone's on-board storage is depleted.
Yeah, my pre-production unit is pretty good. But I have a long list of nitpicks, none of which are deal breakers given the price:
Is it the "most advanced stabilizer" on the market. No. But Rigiet does achieve parity with the most popular features out there which is saying something at this price.
Yeah, I am happier actually. I'm happy that my kids and their friends are thrilled by the "professional skater videos" (as they call them) I'm able to produce while running beside them:
Handheld iPhone on left vs iPhone held by Rigiet gimbal (with @jannikslagter)
A post shared by Trixxy (@trixxy) on May 5, 2017 at 4:02am PDT
And I can't help but enthuse over the ability to lock onto subjects, allowing me to leave the camera unattended to join the action (and yes it’ll lock onto your face too for those longing for YouTube vlogging stardom):
Testing Rigiet auto tracking when locked on my daughter.
A post shared by Trixxy (@trixxy) on May 6, 2017 at 10:52pm PDT
And motion time lapses have upped my Instagram game considerably:
Testing a Rigiet gimbal
A post shared by Trixxy (@trixxy) on May 2, 2017 at 8:49am PDT
If the question is, should everyone with a smartphone buy a 3-axis stabilizer then I'd have to say no. But if you don't own a dedicated camera, and you've got $150 to burn, and you can put up with my nitpicks above then hells yes, buy a Rigiet. It packs a lot of punch for not much money compared to the other smartphone gimbals on the market. And as an accessory, it'll work with your current phone and your friend's phone and most likely your next phone for years to come which is something you can't say about most smartphone accessories.
Last night Nintendo revealed some new details on two of its big upcoming Switch games, Arms and Splatoon 2. But mixed amongst the story trailers and new character reveals was some bright, colorful new hardware. The Splatoon-themed, neon pink-and-green options include both a pair of Joy-Con controllers, and the sleek Pro Controller. There’s also a similarly-themed Switch carrying case, complete with lots of squid graphics.
Unfortunately, right now the options have only been announced for Japan and Europe — there’s no word on a release in North America. The accessories will be launching on July 21st, the same day Splatoon 2 releases on Switch, and in Japan you’ll be able to get the game and Joy-Con as part of a console bundle. For those in North America looking for a colorful new Joy-Con, there are other options. In June, Nintendo is releasing a bright yellow option to go along with the launch of Arms.
We’ve known it was coming for a while, but Microsoft has added Shoulder Tap to the latest Windows 10 Insider Preview build. Originally planned for the Windows 10 Creators Update, Shoulder Tap will cause a giant, animated version of an emoji to pop up over your taskbar if one of your pinned contacts sends you one through Skype.
Microsoft removed the Shoulder Tap gif from their post that exposed a new gear button in the Taskbar pic.twitter.com/W4iCxPnUbS
You can see how the feature works in the above GIF via Rafael Rivera, which was originally posted by Microsoft before getting pulled, presumably due to the unannounced gear icon that the GIF shows (the function of that icon is still unknown.)
And if you’re not a fan of having your computer overwhelmed by giant emoji every time your friend sends you one, don’t worry — you can toggle Shoulder Tap off.
Lots of ideas for receiving the benefits of exercise without actually, you know, exercising have come and gone in the last 50 years. So it’s worth being a little skeptical about this one: mice, when given a certain molecule, could run 100 minutes longer without any training.
The usual caveats apply: this is a mouse study, and we haven’t tested the drug in humans. But scientists hope that this compound — called GW1516, or GW for short — can be turned into a medicine that provides benefits for people who have trouble exercising. (By this, they mean people who have heart conditions or other physical limitations, not just the lazy among us.)
Plastic-eating caterpillars could solve our trash problem.
A new place to follow smart science coverage that isn’t overhyped and overblown.
What’s exciting here, though, is that GW comes from our knowledge of genetics. See, scientists already know that it’s possible to genetically engineer mice to run a lot longer than normal mice without getting tired. Activating this gene, called PPAR delta, has other benefits, too. It’s harder for these mice to gain weight, and they respond well to insulin — so they’re less likely to become diabetic. All of these are benefits of being fit, because normal exercise activates PPAR, too. But you can’t run around genetically engineering a hyper-fit population — so figuring out how to get the benefits from a drug is clutch. In a study published today in the journal Cell Metabolism, scientists injected mice with GW for eight weeks. The compound activated the PPAR gene, and the mice treated with it got benefits just like the genetically engineered ones did.
All of the mice used in the experiment were sedentary, and the scientists first gave them tests to see how long they could run without getting exhausted; they defined “exhaustion” as blood sugar dropping below a certain level. By the end, mice in the control group ran about 160 minutes before they became exhausted. But mice who took the drug could run for 270 minutes.
The team also took a look at other differences in the mice who got the molecule versus the ones who didn’t. Genes that break down fat for energy did more work in the mice with GW. At the same time, genes that beak down carbs for energy did less work. This makes sense, because it’s exactly what happens in real life: the bodies of really fit people typically burn fat for fuel instead of carbs.
All this said, the mice that took the molecule didn’t have any better muscles than the ones that didn’t, so it seems like the benefits come from changing how their body breaks down energy. It’s all early days for this research, but if this finding pans out in humans, it could be very good news for people who are sick and very bad news for gyms.
This story was originally published on May 2, 2017 and has been updated with video.

OnePlus has announced that it’s partnering with DxO to improve the cameras in the upcoming OnePlus 5.
DxO is perhaps best known for the DxOMark benchmarking test that remains one of the most commonly cited metrics for camera performance on a smartphone (even though it’s important to remember that benchmarks never tell the full story), along with developing several pieces of professional photography software. But the company also has hardware experience in the DxO One, a well-regarded camera that slots directly into the Lightning port on an iPhone to offer improved pictures than the built-in camera.
OnePlus and DxO aren’t offering any details as to the nature of the collaboration, or even whether DxO is contributing to the hardware or software components of the OnePlus 5’s camera .A cynical-minded person could look at the partnership as OnePlus looking to ensure it scores highly on the DxOMark test — which OnePlus’s announcement does specifically call it out by name — but we don’t know that for sure.
We’ll presumably find out more soon though, given that the OnePlus 5 is expected to launch sometime this summer.
Variety reports that Netflix has put down nearly $20 million at the Cannes Film Festival for the worldwide rights to Bubbles, a stop-motion animated film about Michael Jackson’s pet chimpanzee.
The film was co-directed by Taika Waititi (The Hunt for the Wilderpeople, Thor: Ragnarok) and Mark Gustafson (The Fantastic Mr. Fox, Guillermo del Toro’s Pinocchio), from a script by unknown screenwriter Isaac Adamson that ranked near the top of Hollywood’s 2015 Black List.
Bubbles was produced by Dan Harmon’s Starburns Industries, which also financed the stop-motion dramedy Anomalisa — a Best Animated Feature nominee at the 2015 Academy Awards.
This is just the start of Netflix’s big week at Cannes — its first competition film, Bong Joon-ho’s Okja, premieres tomorrow, followed by Noah Baumbach’s The Meyerowitz Stories on Sunday. The streaming platform will likely do some more shopping as well, as it has made a tradition of at all the major film festivals at this point: at Sundance this year, Netflix nabbed 14 new features for its service, and at the Toronto International Film Festival last fall it bought eight.

Nvidia has a new graphics card out, the GT 1030 — and unlike pricier options, it starts at just $69.99, or just one-tenth of the $699 price tag that the company’s monster GTX 1080 Ti commands. The news was first spotted by VentureBeat.
The goal of the GT 1030 is to provide a cheaper, less powerful graphics card for gamers looking to get into competitive play on a budget. As such, it offers relatively weak specs — 2GB of onboard memory, and a core clock speed of 1265 MHz (which can boost to 1518 MHz). But that’s enough to run a wide range of popular e-sport games — including Dota 2, Rocket League, Counter-Strike: Global Offensive, or League of Legends — perfectly well.
The GT 1030 isn’t the first cheap e-sports focused card either. As VentureBeat notes, the GT 1030 will directly compete with AMD’s $79.99 Radeon RX 550, which is a similarly priced and specced budget GPU designed for e-sport play.
While most gamers would obviously prefer to get their hands on the most powerful graphics cards they can, the reality is that unless you’re trying to run something like Battlefield 1 or Deus Ex: Mankind Divided at 4K, you can probably get away with something a little cheaper. Especially when it comes to e-sports titles, which tend to be less demanding when it comes to system resources.
The GT1030 is available now from a variety of PC part supplies, including Zotac, MSI, and Gigabyte, starting at $69.99.
Today, Amazon is launching a new bestseller list called Amazon Charts, which will track the top 20 books that have sold the best on any given week and the 20 books being read the most.
While Amazon already has a number of hourly bestseller lists across a broad range of genres, this list will provide a more stable snapshot of the week’s bestselling and best-read books. The list will be broken into two broad categories: the top 20 books read and purchased in fiction and in nonfiction. The list will incorporate data from three places: physical books bought through the site’s storefront, Kindle books, and Audible audiobooks. The list will track the sales, borrows, and preorders, in an attempt to present a look at what Amazon’s customers are reading.
The team stressed that this list wasn’t going to replace the numerous hourly lists present on the site that get broken down by category. Rather, this new list will provide a week-long snapshot of sales and reading data.
Bestseller lists are a huge tool used by readers and publishers alike. Major lists like those found in The New York Times, LA Times, and other publications can lead to huge exposure and new sales for authors. These lists are important, especially in specific categories, because of the exposure they bring. The New York Times recently culled its bestseller lists down to 14 categories, prompting outcry from authors and publishers alike. The team behind Charts notes that Amazon’s list will likewise be useful to publishers, and includes some specific data, like an author’s agent, alongside the books on the list.
Charts is also an opportunity for Amazon to utilize what it describes as a purely data-driven list, eschewing the editorial latitude that some lists have by presenting a list that’s driven entirely by sales and reading data, compiled from the data the Kindle and Audible users generate. The list won’t pull information from the book social network Goodreads, which Amazon owns. Charts also won’t work with existing systems that track sales data, like Nielsen’s BookScan, instead opting to use its own data. “Many well-known bestseller lists today add, remove, or re-rank books based on editorial considerations and customers have asked for a bestseller list that is based on reading engagement and sales data,” David Naggar, Amazon’s vice president says, “rather than an opinion-based list of what books they should be paying attention to.”
Removing the editorial consideration out of the list could have its drawbacks, however. There’s been examples of where lists dependent upon data have backfired, such as what happened to Facebook’s Trending Topics after the company fired its editors for the section last year. Amazon appears to hope that the sheer volume of data will make gaming the list difficult, but it’s not clear if there’s safeguards in place for identifying obvious attempts to artificially change the list’s rankings.
The raw-data approach means that Charts will look slightly different from other bestseller lists out there: it won’t include the broader snapshot of sales across the bookselling ecosystem, such as what are sold at physical brick-and-mortar bookstores like Barnes & Noble. There are some usual suspects present on the list at launch: Atwood’s The Handmaid’s Tale, J.K. Rowling’s Harry Potter series, Stephen King’s IT, in addition to the current hot books, like Paula Hawkin’s Into the Water. But Amazon’s data picked up Beneath a Scarlet Sky by Mark Sullivan, which appeared on Charts, but not others.
The data also allows Amazon to insert some features that are pretty unique. Some entries on the list will be labeled as “unputdownable,” based on how fast readers read the entire book relative to the others on the list. Other labels include where a book is most popular, and it’ll also provide the book’s customer rating and links to reviews, sample chapters, and of course, an option to add the book to your shopping card.

In March developer Bungie finally revealed some details about Destiny 2, providing a glimpse at the story, while also announcing that it would launch on September 8th on PS4, Xbox One, and — in a series first — PC. What we didn’t get to see was the game itself.
That changes today, as Bungie is hosting a live stream event to officially unveil gameplay from Destiny 2. The stream kicks off today at 10AM PST / 1PM EST, and will come to you live from an airport hangar in California. You can check it out either on Bungie’s site or Twitch channel. The Verge will also be live at the event bringing hands-on impressions and details.
In addition to the game itself, expect to also see a number of partners as well. Bungie previously revealed that it’s working with a range of companies to produce new Destiny merchandise, including art books from Insight Editions, gaming peripherals from Razer, and action figures from the likes of Mcfarlane Toys, ThreeA, and, yes, Funko.
As a refresher, here’s the reveal trailer from March:
Mercedes-Benz has tapped Utah-based solar company Vivint Solar to bring its home battery storage solution to the United States for the first time. Vivint will start selling the Mercedes home batteries to new customers only in California in the second quarter of this year.
Mercedes splits up its home batteries differently from Tesla, its most visible competitor in this space, though they’re functionally the same — the batteries let homeowners store and save electricity generated by solar panels so it can be used   around the clock. Tesla’s $5,500 Powerwall 2 has a 13.5kWh capacity, and customers can buy up to 10 of those to scale to their needs. Mercedes’ home batteries, on the other hand, have a smaller capacity of 2.5kWh, and customers can scale a total of eight of them for a more modest 20kWh.
Vivint’s offerings will be cheaper, though. The company plans to sell a basic package of a 2.5kWh for $5,000 when paired with solar panels, while the complete 20kWh system will run around $13,000, including installation.
Mercedes-Benz Energy Americas CEO Boris von Bormann says he’s not worried about competition or comparisons to Tesla. “The market is big enough that there are several companies in this space that can coexist and do really well, so there’s not a need for a shark mentality out there to grab market share from others,” von Bormann tells The Verge.
Vivint Solar has been around since 2011, but never expanded beyond solar panels and, through a sister company, smart home installations. “I wasn’t interested in the chemistry associated with doing energy storage,” Vivint Solar CEO David Bywater tells The Verge. “So we talked to a whole bunch of companies, and through this process we felt very strongly that Mercedes-Benz was the right partner for us.”
Von Bormann feels the same way. Mercedes’ parent company Daimler has been selling its home batteries in Germany and the UK after announcing the product in 2015. But Mercedes was waiting for “a partner that has a national footprint that has a high quality standard in their installation and in the way they present the company” in the US, which von Bormann calls a “key market.”
Both von Bormann and Bywater think their companies can take advantage of the growing interest in solar energy despite the uncertainty the new administration has brought to the industry. President Donald Trump recently signed an executive order to roll back the Clean Power Plan in favor of emphasizing coal, and another that could expand offshore drilling for oil and gas. His energy plan doesn’t mention solar or other renewable energy sources, and his administration’s 2018 budget proposal includes deep cuts to related agencies, like the one that helped drive down the cost of solar in the first place. It’s not exactly the friendliest time or place to launch a home storage solution for solar panels.
“Will there be some [negative] influence by the current administration? Obviously. Hopefully not to the point that it hinders the industry,” von Bormann says. But he thinks recent evidence of broad (and in some cases bipartisan) support of solar is a sign that the market’s growth can’t be stopped. “Solar makes sense. No matter where you stand on which side of the aisle, hopefully, at some point, sense prevails.”
Correction: An earlier version of this story stated that the 2.5kWh battery’s $5,000 would include solar panels. A representative for Vivint has clarified that the price of the panels are not included in that package.
AMD has announced some more Ryzen processors set to hit later this year, including mobile-focused Ryzen processors for laptops, the Ryzen “Threadripper” for high-end desktop PCs, and a budget Ryzen 3 line, as noted by Liliputing.
The first Ryzen processors were released by AMD earlier this year, and were seen a major leap forward for the company’s CPU offerings that actually managed to offer meaningful competition for Intel’s popular Core i5 and i7 models when it came to both price and performance.
The mobile Ryzen line, codenamed “Raven Ridge,” will be what AMD calls an APU — an “accelerated processing unit,” which combines a CPU and an integrated GPU into a single chip (similar to how Intel CPUs offer integrated Intel HD graphics). Like the desktop Ryzen processors, the mobile CPU components will be four-core, 8-thread chips based on the same “Zen” architecture. AMD expects to see the mobile Ryzen APUs in a variety of laptop form factors, ranging from ultraportables to gaming machines in the second half of 2017.
At the other end of the spectrum is the upcoming Ryzen Threadripper, set to release in the summer. It still has the same Zen architecture as the rest of the Ryzen line, but the Threadripper will be a CPU with up to 16-cores and 32-threads — for comparison, the high end Ryzen 7 offers has eight cores and 16 threads. There’s no word on price yet for the Threadripper, but given the high-end nature of the processor, it probably won’t be cheap.
Lastly, AMD confirmed that the budget Ryzen 3 processors are still planned for later in 2017. The Ryzen 3 is meant to fill in the lower end of the product lineup, and compete with Intel’s Core i3 chips — much as the Ryzen 5 is meant to compete with Intel’s Core i5 models, and the Ryzen 7 to compete with Core i7 processors.
VanMoof, the electric bicycle company that impressed us last year with its speedy and stylish Electrified S, is releasing a new model designed specifically for Tokyo. The Electrified X is more compact than the S, with smaller wheels and an all-new frame that retains all of VanMoof’s smart features like pedal assist and anti-theft location tracking.
Tokyo is a geographically huge city, but at street level things are often on a smaller scale than you’d expect.  “Everything here is more compact,” VanMoof CEO and co-founder Ties Carlier tells me at the company’s new pop-up store in Harajuku. “Apartments are smaller, cars are smaller, even the roads are tinier. So with that in mind, we thought we’d need a bike that’s also more compact. I just knew there had to be a way to get that same technology and that same VanMoof feeling we have into a new design that will fit a city like Tokyo.”
The most common types of bike seen in Tokyo, however, are the oversized clunkers known as mamachari, which more or less means “mom’s bike.” These are big, utilitarian rides that usually have 26-inch wheels — the Electrified S has even bigger 28-inch wheels — and tend to be used for shopping or transporting kids. You don’t have to spend more than $100 or so on a non-electric mamachari, and their popularity among all sorts of people suggests Tokyo residents aren’t opposed to big bicycles. But VanMoof believes the Electrified X, with its range of up to 120 kilometers (75 miles), will be used in an entirely different way.
“Actually electric bikes are already very big here — people love to ride them,” Carlier says. “But I think the big difference there, and what’s super interesting to me, is that they’re used for very short distances. It’s usually a mamachari used within the same neighborhood — it’s very rare that someone rides it outside the neighbourhood to work or further away. That’s a bit of a shame, I think, and that’s what our bike is perfect for. That 5- or 10-kilometer ride a day, you’re faster than a car or any other transportation, basically, and it makes it so much more fun. The fun part is the most important thing, I think. With my commute in Taipei or Tokyo or Amsterdam, this bike is the best part of my day.”
That might sound hyperbolic, but after taking the Electrified X for an hour-long spin around Tokyo yesterday, I can believe it. The bike is just a total blast to ride. With a top speed of 24 kph (15 mph) it’s a little slower than the Electrified S, but I didn’t mind. The 250-350-watt front-wheel motor makes pedaling up inclines effortless, and there’s a boost button that gives you an extra burst of speed and feels like using a mushroom power-up in Mario Kart. Before I knew it I was approaching Takadanobaba, way north of Shinjuku, and I hadn’t even thought to check where I was going.
At six foot four, I’m a lot taller than most Japanese people, but I still found the Electrified X to fit me fine. The other popular bicycle wheel size in Japan is 20 inches, which pretty much feels like a BMX to me, but a 26-inch mamachari is too ungainly; the 24-inch Electrified X really does find a comfortable middle ground. It’s not so small that you feel ridiculous trying to go at top speed on the road, but when you do ride on the sidewalk — as almost everyone does in Japan — it’s compact enough to get out of the way. And since you don’t need to change down gears or pedal hard to start up again after stopping, it’s a lot less frustrating to ride alongside obstacles and pedestrians.
“I think with this bike you can ride on the road,” says Carlier “It’s fast, and it should be okay — I do it and it feels much safer. I think the mamacharis you’ll see on the pavement, but the rest like you and me, young professionals will ride on the road. I think it’s the right place for a bicycle.” Carlier does, however, hope that Tokyo will develop more bike lanes in the future — right now there are barely any — and says this may form part of Tokyo’s redevelopment in the run-up to the 2020 Olympics.
Could the Electrified X really be faster than commuter transportation? I have my doubts here in Tokyo, unless you have a particularly convoluted commute. But Carlier claims he rode his Electrified X right out the door from Haneda airport and arrived at his Airbnb an hour faster than his colleague who took the train. “Not only that,” he says, “my colleague arrived tired and stressed from the Metro after walking and with all these direction, and I came with a smile on my face — I had a beautiful ride through the city.”
“The most important thing is that the electric bike opens up the city. In Amsterdam people know it’s the best way to get around, but that’s because it’s a small city and everything’s within a 20-minute ride. I do think Tokyo’s the perfect city to show that electric bikes can open up the city. The public transport here is considered to be good, and it is, of course — but is it a nice part of your day?”
VanMoof is taking orders for the Electrified X in Japan from Tuesday next week. It’ll cost 370,000 yen (about $3,320), though preorders will be available for 270,000 yen ($2,420) for a limited time. This price includes a two-year warranty along with VanMoof’s “bike hunter” service, which promises to either track down or replace your stolen bike within two weeks. As for a release for the Electrified X outside Japan? Nothing’s planned right now, but it could be in the cards.
“It was really designed with Tokyo in mind, but we’ve shown it to people in the US and Europe and a lot of people love it — I think potentially we could bring it to other countries too.” Carlier says. “The weird thing is, it’s actually become my favorite bike. I love the big one, but now I’m riding this one and it fits my size perfectly too.”
Carlier is a couple of inches taller than me, even. If he’s right about the Electrified X, VanMoof may just have made its most universally appealing bike yet.

Okja, the latest film from Snowpiercer director Bong Joon-ho, will premiere at the Cannes film festival this week, and ahead of its debut, Netflix debuted a new trailer that shows the creature at the heart of the film in its full glory.
Okja is about a woman named Mija (Ahn Seo-hyun), who befriends the titular creature. We’ve only had glimpses of Okja in earlier footage, but now that we’ve seen it in action, the film doesn’t really look like a monster movie at all. It looks like Tilda Swinton’s character has designed Okja to be an edible solution for a hungry world. Her super-pigs, she explains, are beautiful, eat less food and produce less waste than other livestock, and most importantly, they “taste fucking good.” But when Mija and Okja are separated, Mija teams up with a group of animal-rights activists, and their rescue mission throws a wrench in Swinton’s plans.
The film will get a limited theatrical release in the United States after its June 28th debut on Netflix.
American and European officials met in Brussels yesterday to discuss the Trump administration’s proposed ban on laptops and tablets on trans-Atlantic flights, and according to reports, the measure won’t be implemented anytime soon.
The BBC reported Wednesday that officials from the US and EU “decided against” the ban following yesterday’s meeting, though “other measures” are still under consideration. An unnamed official told the Associated Press that the proposal is “off the table” for the time being. Officials are due to meet again next week in Washington, DC.
The proposed measure, as reported earlier this month, would expand an electronics ban currently in place on certain US-bound flights from eight majority-Muslim countries. The current measure prohibits travelers from bringing any devices that are “larger than a smartphone” as carry-on items. The UK announced a similar ban in March that affects flights from six countries.
US officials have defended the ban as a measure to thwart terrorist attacks, saying that intelligence shows that ISIS is developing smaller bombs that could be concealed in electronic devices. But the airline industry has pushed back, warning that expanding the electronics ban to Europe would result in higher costs and new security threats.
The International Air Transport Association (IATA) said this week that such an expansion would cost passengers $1.1 billion a year due to longer travel times and lost productivity. The IATA also said the measure would mark a dramatic expansion of the ban currently in place, impacting an estimated 390 flights a day. The current ban affects 350 flights a week, the IATA said.
In a letter to the US Department of Homeland Security and the European Commission, IATA Director General Alexandre de Juniac called on officials to explore “alternative measures,” including better bomb detection technology and behavioral screening. De Juniac also said that storing electronics in a plane’s cargo area could increase the risk of lithium-ion batteries catching fire, as reported by Reuters.
A joint statement from the European Commission and the Department of Homeland Security said officials will meet again next week in Washington, DC “to further assess shared risks and solutions for protecting airline passengers, whilst ensuring the smooth functioning of global air travel.”


YouTube is making it easier for users to start live-streaming on mobile devices. According to a report from Android Police, the video site is dropping a requirement that means users have to have more than 1,000 subscribers before they “Go Live” via a phone or tablet. The company previously dropped this subscriber-count requirement down to 1,000 from 10,000 in April.
The change hasn’t yet been confirmed by YouTube or Google and doesn’t appear to be showing up for everyone, but will likely roll out over the coming days. It’s important to note also that this doesn’t meant just anyone can start live-streaming from a mobile device — you’ll still need to have a verified channel and no live stream restrictions in the last 90 days to qualify.
UPDATE: A YouTube spokesperson reached out to The Verge to say the report from Android Police was incorrect. “We've been experimenting and expanding mobile live streaming for almost a year now. However, it is still only available to a relatively small subset of users.”
600 Gogoro Smartscooters are coming to Paris this summer as part of the Coup eScooter sharing service. Coup, a subsidiary of Bosch, first launched the scooter sharing service in Berlin with 200 Gogoro electric scooters in 2016. It expanded to 1,000 scooters less than a year later. It’ll be going up against the Cityscoot service which launched in Paris last summer with 150 electric scooters.
Coup requires a Class B (for normal cars) or international driver's license — you don't need a motorcycle license. The Coup app for iOS and Android lets you locate and reserve the closest scooter parked in dedicated two-wheel parking zones around select districts of central Paris. Coup cost €3 for 30 minutes of riding or €20 for a full day. Insurance is baked right into the rate.
It's no secret that The Verge staff has a crush on Gogogo's electric scooters ever since their unveiling in 2015. But so far, they've only been on sale in their home city of Taiwan. Through Coup, Gogoro is hoping to get its delightful little people movers into more cities without the hassle of ownership.
“Gogoro and Coup are focused on delivering new services that encourage consumer adoption of more sustainable transportation choices like the Smartscooter. The Coup e-scooter sharing model has been proven successful in Berlin and we are looking forward to introducing it in Paris this summer with the same success,” said Horace Luke, co-founder and CEO of Gogoro in a press release. “We created Gogoro to be a technology company integrating innovation and sustainable energy to create new business models, services and products that ignite urban residents and city governments to embrace sustainable energy with the new fuel of the future.”
The European Commission has fined Facebook €110 million ($122 million) for “providing incorrect or misleading information” about its 2014 acquisition of WhatsApp.
In a press release published Thursday, the Commission said that the social media company misinformed European regulators when it said that it would be unable to link the profiles of users on WhatsApp and Facebook. In 2016, however, WhatsApp announced that it would begin sharing some user data, including phone numbers, with Facebook. In its decision, the Commission said that “the technical possibility of automatically matching Facebook and WhatsApp users' identities already existed in 2014, and that Facebook staff were aware of such a possibility.”
The decision announced today will not have any impact on the Commission’s decision to authorize the acquisition, and it is not related to separate data protection investigations that are currently underway, the EC said in its press release. Germany ordered Facebook to stop collecting data from WhatsApp users in September 2016, and Facebook agreed to suspend data collection on UK WhatsApp users in November of that year. This week, WhatsApp was fined €3 million by Italian antitrust authorities for “inducing” users to share data with Facebook. The EC announced its investigation in December 2016.
"Today's decision sends a clear signal to companies that they must comply with all aspects of EU merger rules, including the obligation to provide correct information,” Commissioner Margrethe Vestager said in a statement. “And it imposes a proportionate and deterrent fine on Facebook. The Commission must be able to take decisions about mergers' effects on competition in full knowledge of accurate facts."
In a statement published to its website Thursday, Facebook said it “acted in good faith” during its interactions with the European Commission, and that it “sought to provide accurate information at every turn.” The social network acquired WhatsApp in 2014 for $22 billion.
“The errors we made in our 2014 filings were not intentional and the Commission has confirmed that they did not impact the outcome of the merger review,” the statement reads. “Today’s announcement brings this matter to a close.”

Google kicked off its three-day developer conference with a two-hour keynote. There were a lot of news and updates, notably to things like the Google Assistant, Google Home, and Google Photos, but if you don’t have 120 minutes to spend watching the entire thing, we’ve recapped the keynote for you in a snackable 10-minute supercut. Then, if you want to dive into more details on each of these news items, see our storystream for everything you may have missed.
Over the course of its eight years of existence, Kickstarter has become a crowdfunding juggernaut, synonymous with ambitious (and occasionally unrealistic) campaigns to bring new gadgets, games, and other startup-worthy ideas to life. Prior to today, a Japanese version of the service remained ambiguously absent, despite the obvious opportunities for crowdfunding neat exports otherwise impossible to buy outside Tokyo.
Now, according to a post on Kickstarter’s website, it will begin accepting projects from Japanese creators later this year. In the past, Japanese citizens have been able to contribute to Kickstarters, but have never been able to post their own projects. That doesn’t mean there haven’t been projects from Japan.
“Over the years there have been creators from Japan and other countries who have launched projects on Kickstarter by collaborating with partners,” a spokesperson confirmed to The Verge. Currently, that means partnering with a person or organization in one of Kickstarter’s 21 available markets. Information is scarce as to when the launch in Japan will happen, but Kickstarter has a sign-up page if you’re interested in getting an update on when the service goes live.


Today’s Google I/O presentation was as wide-ranging as the company’s various ventures into future technology, though the biggest cheers of excitement were inevitably reserved for Android. I just got my first taste of Google’s next iteration, codenamed Android O, and it looks like it’s targeting exactly the areas where Google’s mobile OS needed improvement.
Battery life, a thing that matters to all users at all times, is getting a nice helping hand from a couple of changes that limit resource consumption by apps running in the background. When a background app wants a location update, for instance, Android O will feed it the user’s last known location instead of activating the GPS or other hardware to collect a fresh location. Then, when the app is in the foreground, it regains its privilege of being able to poll for current location info. If you’re thinking that’s how it always should have been, I totally agree.
Google’s umbrella term for the unsexy but essential under-the-hood improvements in Android O is "vitals." My other highlight from among them is the massively improved bootup time: my personal Google Pixel took more than twice as long to start up than Google’s demo Pixel running O. I also find Android O runs very fast and smooth already, despite being only beta software. Naturally, not everything works flawlessly in the new OS yet, so I can’t judge how well Google is doing with its other vital bulletpoint, stability, but the first impression I’ve obtained is a positive one.
The more visible changes include a streamlined Settings menu (when has a Settings menu not looked in need of streamlining?), another gradual update to how notifications work, and new app badging à la the iPhone. Google calls these notification dots, and it adds a nice twist to the idea by automatically color-matching the dots to the app icon. A long press on an app with a notification dot on it lets you access a secondary menu where you can swipe that alert away without having to hunt it down in among your agglomeration of notifications in the tray.
Perhaps the biggest small change in Android O is the addition of picture-in-picture functionality. It allows YouTube Red subscribers to punt a video they’re watching to a small window — positionable anywhere on the screen — and carry on using their phone as usual. The Google Duo video-chatting app also supports this behaviour, but those two apps are the full extent of this functionality for now. I’d really love to see this made available to all YouTube users, and once third-party app makers like Netflix jump on board, it’s likely to grow into a popular feature.
Android O is littered with little nips and tucks that just enhance the user experience without necessarily being visible or apparent. At this stage in Android’s evolution, this approach feels like the best one to take, and I suspect we’ll all be just as aggrieved about not having the Android O update on our non-Google phones as we have in previous years of slow Android upgrades.*
*Google claims it’s made some other changes in the OS that will make Android more modular and thus expedite Android updates, but I’ll believe that when I see it, not before.
Google hosted its I/O developer’s conference today during which it announced additional features for its Photos app, virtual assistant, and Android O. A lot of these things were cool, but what was most befuddling throughout the event was the company’s continued focus on Mother’s Day. Does Google know when Mother’s Day is? Today, the company rolled out an update to its iOS Photos app that specifically highlights a Mother’s Day movie-making feature. See here:
As a reminder, Mother’s Day was this past Sunday, May 14th. To be fair to Google, this movie-making feature debuted before the holiday, but at the time, videos could only be compiled from the desktop app and then subsequently edited through the app. Now they can be made on the app. Still, this is hyper-specific UI for a holiday that comes around once a year.
I wouldn’t have thought much of this strange holiday update timing, but after the company brought Mother’s Day up twice during I/O demos, I really got to wondering what the deal is with Google and the holiday. During a demo of Google Home phone calls, Rishi Chandra, VP of home products, suggests that if he forgot to call his mom on Mother’s Day, he could do so hands-free from the stage. Chandra’s mom reminds him that Mother’s Day was three days ago to which he says he missed it because of event rehearsal. Alright.
Then later in the event, Google shows how its Photos app can be used to make a Mother’s Day gift in the form of a physical photo album. Again, Mother’s Day was on Sunday; why are we still talking about it? Maybe this is all a testament to the power of mom guilt.
Here’s a 1 percenter problem: I have both an Amazon Echo and a Google Home in our apartment, and so I could theoretically use whichever one is better. In a lot of ways, I think the Google Home is better: it sounds nicer, it works with my television, and it knows a lot of personal information that I haven’t bothered to try to make available on Amazon’s Alexa.
But I usually just go with Alexa, because “Alexa” is way easier to say than “OK Google.”
Rishi Chandra, VP for Google Home, tells me he’s heard that feedback. In fact, feedback along those lines is one of the reasons that you can say “Hey Google” instead of “OK Google” to activate the Google Home. But is Google open to adding another, easier-to-say hot word to its Assistant?
Maybe!
Here’s the story: Google decided not to give its intelligent assistant a name like Siri or Alexa or Cortana or whatever. Instead, it’s just the Google Assistant. There are nice things about that name: it’s genderless, it tells you what the thing is, and for Google, it signals that it’s a core product for the future of the company.
All of which makes Google “cautious” about throwing another hot word into the mix, according to Chandra. Because that new hot word might end up becoming what people call its assistant. Chandra is clear that Google isn’t religious about never adding another one, and it is listening to feedback from people like me who end up nearly swallowing their tongues when they try to say “OK Google” for the fifth time in a row. But he doesn’t want to make any quick changes without fully thinking through those implications.
As I wrote earlier today, a cautious approach to how to turn AI into consumer interfaces is kind of Google’s new thing, and in that context I don’t hate the decision to think through hot words really carefully. I just hate saying “OK Google.”
CBS debuted a full trailer for Star Trek: Discovery today, showing off a clip stuffed with plenty of Federation action, spaceships, and a ton of new characters, in a story set a decade before Captain Kirk and Spock ventured out in the Enterprise.
The trailer opens with Michelle Yeoh as Captain Philippa Georgiou and Sonequa Martin-Green as First Officer Michael Burnham walking across a desert planet. There, Georgiou tells Burnham that it’s time for her first command, and we jump to scenes on the bridge of the Discovery. Over the course of the next two minutes, the ship engages the Klingons, the new cast blurs by, tensions rise, and the character interactions hint at a number of plot threads involving the Federation’s current place in the universe. This show looks as though it has a far more militant Starfleet than the optimistic-explorer group in the original 1966 show.
CBS first announced Discovery in 2015, and revealed a teaser during last year’s San Diego Comic-Con. The show has since run into considerable problems: while it was supposed to begin airing in January 2017, it was pushed back to May, and delayed again earlier this year. Last fall, the show also lost its showrunner, Bryan Fuller, due to his workload, which includes Starz’s American Gods. With this new trailer, the show does seem to be back on track. Deadline notes that the show’s sixth episode is currently being shot, and that the order for the season has been upped from 13 episodes to 15. CBS also announced that it’s greenlit a companion talk show, Talking Trek.
Unfortunately, the trailer doesn’t offer a firm release date: the show is just coming “this fall.” Fortunately, there’s so much going on in this quick initial look that the trailer-analyzer brigade will probably still be combing through it frame by frame when fall rolls around. For those who live in the UK and Ireland, Netflix released a international version of the trailer you can watch here. Just note that it’s region locked for US viewers.
Clue helps women keep track of their menstrual cycle by allowing them to input information about when they have their period, how they’re feeling when they have it, their sexual activity, flow, and other notes. The idea is that with this detailed log, Clue can offer women a more thorough look at their fertility and how their period affects day-to-day life. Today, the company is building new functionality into its app that’s meant to help women understand how their birth control pill impacts their cycle. “Smart Pill Tracking,” as the company calls it, asks women to tell the app whether they took their pill that day, or more specifically, whether it was taken late, completely missed, or doubled because they had previously skipped a day.
Maybe more importantly, though, the app can also explain how pill dosages impact fertility. If you miss a pill, for example, there’s an increased chance of pregnancy. If they opt-in, users have to tell the app every day whether they took their pill, and if they don’t mark “taken,” it’ll offer instructions on what to do. (If it’s been less than three hours, the pill should be taken immediately and will still be effective, for instance.)
The app includes an alarm to remind users to take the pill, which is helpful but not foolproof. Sometimes doses are missed not because someone forgot to take the pill but because she doesn’t have her pill pack with her, or her prescription ran out and needs to be refilled. The information Clue provides likely isn’t any more helpful than a WebMD page, but it at least puts everything in front of a woman’s face so she doesn’t have to go out of her way to figure out what to do.
Personally, I’ve always found one of the worst aspects of using a Nexus or Pixel smartphone to be getting stuck with Google’s bad, default emoji. Emoji intended to represent people look more like thumbs. Or, in the words of The Verge’s Megan Farokhmanesh, they resemble “normal emoji that melted.” Or Dots candy or something. I feel a slight anxiety when l include what should be a fun, cheerful emoji in my texts to friends who have iPhones or Samsung phones. which display more regular emoji. What will it look like to them? Must I pull up some chart to see?
Google finally got the message that these emoji suck. Okay, “suck” is a little harsh. I’m sure some of you like them. But they’ve always been a little too offbeat when other phone makers offer emoji that mostly look similar. Google tried to tone things down a little and restore normalcy with Android N, but it wasn’t enough. So this time the company decided to start over and make things right for Android O.
Fast Company has a behind-the-scenes look at the redesign process, which apparently took 18 months. Somehow this revelation went unmentioned on stage, where it was only briefly stated that you’ll be able to download your own emoji sets and custom fonts in O. So if you don’t like these, hopefully you’ll be able to switch back rather easily. But the emoji seen above are the new system default.
You can get the new emoji yourself if you install the beta release of Android O. Do you dislike the blobs enough to put up with random beta bugs? I just might. If not, you’ll get them when the OS update is officially released later this summer.
Goodbye and good riddance.
I just spent some time with a small, early demo of the new home screen experience for Android O on TV. Even though it’s not fully working yet — some of the apps don’t open, and the Google Assistant isn’t running on it — it has a nicer TV UI than the other television devices I use every day.
Those TV devices: Apple TV and Chromecast. The latter, while convenient, has no on-screen UI at all, which is a problem if you’re trying to pick a show with somebody else. The Apple TV is, well, it’s a big, boring grid of apps, only a few of which actually surface any kind of deep content on the home screen (and only if you happen to put them in the top row).
Android TV is more like Fire TV and the Xbox: each app is able to create a “channel,” which displays important content right on the home screen. You scroll vertically through your favorite app channels, then left to right to get live previews. It will also work with live television apps.
There’s obviously a big old app grid if you want that, and a row of your favorite apps up at the top. You’ll be able to use Google Assistant to search for shows or even ask contextual questions. We got to do a small test of that on another TV device running Android Marshmallow, and it worked pretty well as far as the demo goes. It successfully showed the weather, and ably brought us information about Stranger Things.
There’s also a “Watch Now” queue, which will theoretically have the next episode of recent shows you’ve been watching and movies you’ve quit halfway through. It’s like a “keep watching” list on Netflix. But it’s also like a proper Netflix queue, because you can save any show or episode to it by long-pressing on its icon.
That’s not all that far off from what Apple is trying to do with its TV app, but on Android TV it’s built right into the home screen. That may sound like Android has figured out a way to do what Apple couldn’t — but the whole story is obviously more complicated.
Complication number one: app makers can choose whether or not to participate in the Watch Now section of Android TV, just like they can choose whether or not to participate in Apple’s Siri search and its TV app. Content companies have proven to be remarkably reticent to allow their content to be listed in places other than their app.
The only way to really get those apps into something like the Watch Now queue is probably leverage: sell millions upon millions of devices and prove that the feature is so popular that you’d be crazy to lock your content out of it. And that is really the second complication: Android TV was such a flop for the first few years of its existence that it’s been difficult for it to climb back. There’s simply not going to be a big enough install base for Google to gain that leverage.
So Android O on TVs: looks good, fairly promising, but probably not enough to make you want to switch to it. Turns out it’s easier to make a demo of a better TV interface than it is to actually make it a real thing customers use. It should be available alongside Android O for phones later this year.
A lot of people turn to search engines when they’re looking for work, so today the world’s biggest search engine announced Google for Jobs. The project aims to leverage Google’s advanced machine learning capabilities, sorting through millions of job listings to better match opportunities with candidates.
Right now Google isn’t planning to start hosting its own job listings. It is collecting them from third parties like Facebook, LinkedIn, Glassdoor, Monster, and ZipRecruiter. It then filters jobs for criteria like the length of the commute, and tries to bundle together openings for similar jobs that might be listed under different names. A couple of big companies, including FedEx and Johnson & Johnson, have been piloting the program, and Google CEO Sundar Pichai says they saw an 18 percent increase in applications over their previous methods.
It’s not clear if Google is dipping its toe into this market before launching a competitor to job search engines like Indeed. Right now, after a user clicks on the job they want, Google sends them to another service to apply. According to Bloomberg, Indeed generated over $300 million in revenue in the first half of 2015, and IBIS World estimates the total market to be around $4 billion annually, so there is certainly an attractive opportunity for Google if they want to take on incumbents. The product is rolling out in the US in the next few weeks.

Some people earn miles using their credit cards, others do it by actually flying somewhere. Today, Delta has added Lyft to its rewards program so you can accumulate miles from a service you might use more regularly — at least, more regularly than air travel.
To earn frequent flyer miles, Lyft users can link their account to Delta’s SkyMiles program from a dedicated website. The system works a lot like a credit card program: you earn one mile for every dollar spent on Lyft. At launch, Lyft is offering three miles per dollar for rides to and from airports.
Lyft isn’t the first ride-sharing app to implement a frequent flyer partnership model; Uber has a similar program with Starwood Preferred Guest which lets users earn points to use when booking SPG hotels, which includes the Sheraton, Westin, St. Regis, W Hotels, and more. Uber also partnered with United Airlines and American Airlines to prompt users to book an Uber when their flight lands.
After a year of incubation, Android Instant Apps are finally ready for the world. Originally announced at last year's Google I/O, Instant Apps are a way for developers to offer a lightweight version of their Android app without requiring a visit to the Play Store. You just click a link in your web browser and all of a sudden you're using a real Android app, with all the power that implies — other than a few safety restrictions. A few Instant Apps were made available in January as a trial run, and a few other companies have partnered with Google to build instant apps since then, but now at this year's Google I/O the necessary tools have been made available to all developers.
To make an app Instant, developers need to make it modular and compatible with deep links, so users can click on a URL and end up in exactly the part of the app they're looking to use. The initial download also needs to be under a certain size, but users also have the option to download the whole app once they've gotten a taste.
Instant Apps were originally supposed to run on versions of Android as far back as 4.3, but right now they only support 6.0 or newer — though 5.0 support is supposed to be coming soon. The upcoming Android O will add additional improvements to Instant Apps, including the ability to search for and launch Instant Apps from the launcher, as well as add them to your home screen.
Twitter unveiled a new set of privacy and data controls today that allow users to see and control how advertisers target them on the platform. The company explains in a blog post that it’s expanding individual access “to give you the most transparent access to your Twitter information to date, including demographic and interest data, and advertisers that have included you in their tailored audiences on Twitter. Each category of data will be clearly marked, and you will be able to view or modify this data directly.”
The update appears to be rolling out to users now, though it might not be fully available for every Twitter member yet. Here’s the good news. Once you have access to the system, it will allow you to turn a lot of the advertisement targeting off.
To access the page, you’ll first want to head to the “Your Twitter data” tab, located under Settings. The page includes some basic info like your username, the exact date and time you created your account, and devices you’ve logged in with. If you’re concerned about security, it’s a good page to bookmark: it allows you to see the time, date, device, and IP location of your last 50 logins, as well as which specific locations Twitter uses to show you relevant content.
Anyway, back to the ad targeting. If you keep scrolling through this page, you’ll find the “interests” section. In my case, Twitter lists 69 (nice) interests for me, and zero interests from partners (...).
According to Twitter, your interests are based on profile activity. Mine include categories such as “cartoons,” “console gaming,” “politics,” and “cute,” presumably because it knows that I spend most of my time on Twitter being yelled at by gamers and drowning my existential dread with pictures of adorable animals. You can remove interests, though the feature won’t allow you to add any.
If you want to opt out of targeted ads, head to the “Interests from partners” section. You can turn off this feature in a few ways. First, go to “personalization and data” and deselect any options to receive personalized ads. There are a few to choose from: apps, location, web browsing history. Opt out as you see fit.
You’ll also want to deselect the “share data through select partnerships” option. Twitter notes that while this will affect which ads you see on your stream, it won't remove you from advertisers' audiences. You can request a list of which advertisers have your Twitter handle on their own marketing lists by visiting the link under "Tailored audiences."
On its support page, Twitter explains you may also opt out of interest-based advertising via Digital Advertising Alliance’s consumer choice tool, as well as enable the “Limit Ad Tracking” or “Opt out of Ads Personalization” setting on your phone.
Congratulations! You have ever-so-slightly loosened yourself from the grip of capitalism. At least on Twitter.
When the ShadowBrokers first published the code for EternalBlue — an NSA exploit targeting Windows’ file-sharing protocol — researchers knew it was a bad bug. But most had no idea of the scale of the damage that would be caused by the vulnerability.
Much of that damage has only become visible in recent days, as a ransomware program dubbed “WannaCry” locked up computers from the UK’s National Health Service to the Russian Ministry of the Interior. Some of the damage caused by EternalBlue was harder to spot, caused by more discreet malware designed to infect and monetize computers without leaving a trace. As researchers look for clues as to WannaCry’s origins, more of those programs are coming to light, and giving us more information about the sheer scale of the damage caused by Eternal Blue.
One of those programs, called Adylkuzz, exploits the vulnerability to mine an obscure cryptocurrency called Monero. According to research released this week by Proofpoint, Adylkuzz became active sometime between April 24th and May 2nd, weeks before WannaCry burst onto the scene. Researchers estimate it reached hundreds of thousands of devices, spreading through the same Windows vulnerability exploited by WannaCry.
Adylkuzz didn’t cause the same stir because it wasn’t shutting down computers or sending ransom notes — all the program did was perform Monero’s mining operation in the background. While that’s definitely not good for your computer, it’s not catastrophic enough to raise alarms, allowing the program to remain undetected until the WannaCry fiasco drew more attention. In fact, because Adylkuzz closed the EternalBlue vulnerability once it infected a machine, researchers suspect the program actually limited the spread of the more damaging ransomware.
Despite the low profile, Adylkuzz was nearly as profitable as WannaCry. Proofpoint identified at least $43,000 paid out as part of the scheme, and it’s likely other wallets would raise the figure even further. So far, roughly $80,000 has been paid out to known WannaCry wallets, a surprisingly low figure given the chaos caused by the attacks. At least one other EternalBlue-powered cryptocurrency miner has been spotted in the wild, and there may be others that are yet undiscovered.
There has also been an explosion of WannaCry variants, possibly the work of copycats. Researchers located a kill-switch domain over the weekend that blocked the initial attack, but in the days since, a handful of alternate versions of the ransomware have popped up either pointing to new domains or with no kill-switch protocol at all. But researchers are split on the origin of the variants, with some pointing to code corruption issues as evidence of a third party at work.
Earlier today, researchers at TrendMicro announced the discovery of an entirely new variant called UIWIX. Like WannaCry, it’s a ransomware program built on EternalBlue — but UIWIX is able to infect machines without writing files to permanent storage, making it far harder to detect through conventional forensics. It also adds new methods to throw off researchers observing it in a virtual environment, leading TrendMicro to suspect a separate group is responsible for the new attack.
That combination of new and old variants make it harder to definitively say who was responsible for the initial WannaCry infections, as it grows increasingly likely that multiple actors are in play. The question has become particularly urgent after Symantec and Kaspersky announced evidence tying the initial attack to a previously researched North Korean cybercrime group.
The good news: patching the single vulnerability will protect against all the different variants, particularly now that Microsoft has released its emergency XP patch. As a result, some researchers see WannaCry’s sudden fame as a powerful weapon against the lesser-known bugs. “I think that WannaCry caused a few cybercriminals to accelerate their timelines,” said Trend Micro cloud research VP Mark Ninnukhoven. “WannaCry burned the match for EternalBlue. For defenders this is a really good thing as WannaCry — which did cause some real-world damage and has frustrated organizations worldwide — wasn’t nearly as malicious as other malware and ransomware that we’ve seen previously.”

Google just concluded its I/O 2017 keynote, where executives led by CEO Sundar Pichai laid out the company’s future roadmap for Android, Google Assistant, Google Home, virtual reality, and much more.
Skydiving Google Glass-wearers, giant phone giveaways, and major hardware announcements no longer rule Google’s biggest annual conference. Instead, the company has settled into a pattern of releasing information about what it’s doing (and what it wants to do) for developers at I/O, instead of trying to wow consumers or the press.
You might call that boring, but that’s also a misguided notion, because there was much to glean from Pichai and the rest of the Googlers who presented onstage. So here are the 10 most important takeaways from today’s I/O keynote.
Android’s mobile dominance hasn’t stopped growing. CEO Sundar Pichai revealed at the keynote’s start that the tally of monthly active Android devices now exceeds 2 billion. That includes smartphones, tablets, Android Wear devices, Android TVs, and any other number of other gadgets that are based on the operating system.
Google Assistant can now analyze the world around you with the help of your smartphone camera. Using a technology the company calls Google Lens, the Assistant will analyze your surroundings and display relevant content on your screen. You’ll see a restaurant’s rating when pointing your phone at the storefront, you can aim it at a flower and it will identify the species, and you can even pull up a band’s music or videos by pointing Lens at a concert poster. But the most useful example might be this: if you point Lens at Wi-Fi login credentials, your Android phone will be able to use that info to log on to that network. (Thank you, Google.)
Google’s not the first company to try to add artificial intelligence to a smartphone’s camera. Samsung recently launched “Bixby Vision” on the Galaxy S8, a sight-based version of its own Bixby digital assistant, for example. And Snapchat (and now Instagram) are using low-level AI to apply goofy filters to your face. But Google’s offering much more with Lens than just image recognition, shopping, or face filters. And while Facebook is exploring similar computer vision efforts, Google is trying to do it sooner than later with Lens.
Assistant is expanding beyond Android to iOS. Google Assistant will be a standalone app on iPhone and iPad, offering many of the same functions as what we’ve seen it do on Google’s own operating system. You don’t have to wait long to try it, either; it’s available starting today.
Like Amazon, Google is turning its smart speaker into a phone. Over the coming months, all Home owners will be able to place free calls to the United States and Canada. By default, Google uses a private number for this feature — but you’ve got the option of tying it to your own mobile phone number. The same goes for everyone else in your house, as phone calls support Home’s multi-user setup. Only outgoing calls will be available at launch, as Google is taking a cautious approach to avoid privacy headaches.
Google’s smart speaker was already one of the best ones on the market, but the company announced a suite of other new features and updates beyond calling to Home that make it much more powerful. Home is now going to be able to control HBO Now, Hulu, SoundCloud, Deezer, and more. Even better, Google is opening up access to Home’s Bluetooth radio, meaning you can treat it just like any other Bluetooth speaker.
Home is also becoming more useful away from the device itself. Google showed off what it’s calling “visual responses.” Using Google Assistant, Home will now be more capable of directing the right information to the right connected screen. Say something like: “OK Google, show my calendar for today” and Home can instantly display your day’s events on a Chromecast-connected TV. Ask Home for directions to a place or event, and it will send the directions right to the Google Maps app on your phone.
More than ever, this requires extreme commitment to Google’s products and services, but that’s sort of the point — Google is betting it can bring all this stuff together in such an attractive way that you won’t think twice about buying (or ditching) your Amazon Echo.
Google Photos is getting a slew of great additions. The app will now recommend that you share photos you’ve taken with people that it recognizes as being in the shot. Google calls this Suggested Sharing. It’s also introducing Shared Libraries, which allow families to collectively add images to a central collection more easily. But Google is emphasizing control, here: you can share your entire photo library, share only from a certain date, or share photos that include certain things like your kids.
Digital backups are great, but what if you want physical memories? Google now offers printed photo books. Books can be created directly on your smartphone. Google will even recommend books to you when it thinks a particular collection makes sense. Books are available beginning today for prices that start at only $9.99.
And in the future, Google said that Photos will be able to automatically remove unwanted items in your shots — like so:
Google’s VR ambitions are expanding beyond Daydream’s current form, which involves strapping your smartphone to your face. The company announced that upcoming headsets from partners including HTC and Lenovo won’t require a smartphone or PC to power the user’s VR experience. You just put it on and it works. The headsets track virtual space with something Google calls “WorldSense,” powered by technology from its Tango augmented reality system. Unfortunately, we didn’t hear exactly when this standalone vision will become reality. Google just offers a vague “coming soon.”
New #Daydream standalone headsets from partners like @htcvive won't require a phone or PC. #io17 pic.twitter.com/7TpYPJGEdU
Google is launching its preview program for Android O, and the first beta is being released today. We’re still in the pretty early days of Android O’s development, so you shouldn’t install this preview on your everyday smartphone. But if you’re dying to check out the big new features — improved notifications, picture-in-picture, and more — you can enroll a compatible Pixel or Nexus device and begin testing out Android O.
Bringing the “next billion” users online with smartphone technology has been a major focus for Pichai since he took over as Google CEO in 2015. Today, the company announced one way it’s going to try to reach that goal: Android Go, a version of the mobile operating system built for entry-level devices that’s optimized for being used in data-restricted environments.
Android Go, which is built on Android O, comes with a “rebuilt” set of Google apps that require less memory, storage, and data to run. Android Go also has its own version of the Google Play Store, which features apps that are best suited for the developing world (like YouTube Go). The OS is able to run on cheap smartphones with as little as 512GB of RAM or less, and Google also built in a way for carriers to show users exactly how much data they’re using. Android Go is still an internal project, but Google sounded confident about it’s ability to take over where 2014’s Android One initiative left off.
Pichai was quick to hammer home the point that his company’s future depends on artificial intelligence, specifically the machine learning techniques that let algorithms learn on their own and improve over time. This technology underpins everything from its Assistant and search to Google Photos and the AlphaGo system. During the opening remarks of the I/O keynote today, Pichai announced Google’s next-generation Tensor Processing Unit, a specially designed chip for machine learning that works on the company’s TensorFlow platform.
This new TPU chip effectively makes building AI on Google’s platform incredibly fast and efficient, more so than with hardware and machine learning platforms used by competitors. With TPU and TensorFlow being optimized to work together, Google is effectively transforming its cloud computing platform into the Android for AI. This is a big deal for Google’s future. If the company can own the hardware and software used by the most cutting-edge AI researchers, it can stay at the forefront of the field and have its hand in every exciting advancement that machine learning, and every other AI breakthrough, yields in the future.
Google said today that we’re going to start seeing appliances show up with support for the Google Assistant, and two companies are already launching integrations: LG and GE.
Both companies are updating their existing lines of connected appliances so that they can be controlled through the Google Home and Assistant. Supported appliances including fridges, ovens, washers and dryers, an air purifier from LG, and an air conditioner and water heater from GE.
This doesn’t mean you’ll be able to speak directly to these appliances to control them, however. You’ll still have to use one of the existing Google Assistant interfaces — your phone or a Google Home — but they’ll be able to handle commands that you had to open up LG’s or GE’s app to handle in the past.
That said, the experience sounds slightly awkward, since you’ll have to be very specific in your requests to the Google Assistant. With GE, for instance, you’ll have to say “OK Google, ask Geneva Home if the dishes are clean,” since Geneva Home is the name of its connected app. It’d be simpler if you could just ask, “Are the dishes clean?” How many dishwashers could you possibly be trying to check, anyway?
LG says it’ll begin rolling out support for the Assistant this month. GE says its support will launch today.
While this is an important get for Google, it isn’t breaking new ground here. GE has already had Alexa support on all of these appliances, and LG even launched a fridge with built-in Alexa that you can speak to.
During a presentation at the I/O conference today, Google said that we’ll start to see “Google Assistant Built In” badges on supported products. A slide in the presentation said we’ll start to see support from Sony, Panasonic, Onkyo, and other familiar appliance brands:
Google announced a few big updates for the Google Home today. None of them are game-changing on their own, but they all add up to a substantial update for the connected speaker. Details are pretty basic right now, and Google didn’t say when any of these features would arrive, but here’s the gist of what’s coming up for the Home.
Google calls this feature “proactive assistance.” Essentially, Google Home will do its best to alert owners to things they need to know, like reminders, traffic alerts, or flight delays.
At launch, these are going to be really basic — it sounds like the Home won’t support notifications for much more than that. The limitation may be to prevent people from getting overloaded right away and give up on notifications altogether.
Google is keeping notifications pretty subtle, too. The Home’s light ring will begin spinning around, without making a sound, when there’s an alert. Owners will just have to say, “OK Google, what’s up?” to hear what it has for them.
Amazon just introduced calling through the Echo — but that was only to other Echo devices. Google is one-upping Amazon by letting the Home dial out to actual landline and mobile phones. Whenever this feature rolls out, you’ll be able to ask the Home to call anyone on your contacts list, and it’ll dial out to them on a private number.
Because Home does voice recognition, it’ll be able to figure out which person’s contact list to use when looking up who to call.
Unfortunately, it sounds like this feature is only coming to the US and Canada for now, so everyone else will have to wait on this one.
You can finally set reminders and calendar entries. Finally.
Google Home has already been able to control a handful of music and video services, but it’s about to get a bunch of major missing names. For music, that includes Spotify’s free tier, Deezer, and SoundCloud. For video, it includes HBO Now and Hulu. On top of that, Home is also getting the ability to stream anything over Bluetooth.
Altogether, these new integrations should make the speaker much more useful as a central media controller. While it can already do select services, you can’t really rely on the Home right now if you use a variety of streaming apps. Increasingly, it looks like you’ll just be able to ask the Home to do something and know it’ll work.
Sometimes you actually want to see what’s going on, so Google’s making a TV interface for the Google Home. You’ll soon be able to ask the Home to send information to your TV, from basics like the weather and your calendar, to information it’s looking up like nearby restaurants or YouTube videos you might want to watch.
Google also says that "over time” it’s going to bring the Assistant integrations that third parties build to the TV.
The Home is going to expand to five new countries this summer: Canada, Australia, France, Germany, and Japan.
Facebook today announced a series of News Feed tweaks to further decrease the reach and prevalence of clickbait on its social network. This comes after a substantial News Feed update last year that restricted the spread of clickbait and punished publishers who primarily use the tactic to trick users into tapping on a link. Now, Facebook says it will target clickbait on an individual post level and not just by analyzing the bulk posts of a page. It will also look at two distinct signals: whether a headline “withholds information or if it exaggerates information separately.”
“People tell us they don’t like stories that are misleading, sensational or spammy,” writes Facebook engineers Arun Babu, Annie Liu, and Jordan Zhang in a blog post posted today. “That includes clickbait headlines that are designed to get attention and lure visitors into clicking on a link. In an effort to support an informed community, we’re always working to determine what stories might have clickbait headlines so we can show them less often.” The company is also going to begin fighting clickbait in foreign languages, and not just on the English language version of its service.
Facebook says its new effort is an improved one because it looks at clickbait-detecting signals separately instead of trying to determine if a post or page is guilty of a number of joint factors. It does this similarly to how email spam filters, by identifying hundreds of thousands of examples of this manually by having a human team consider “if the headline exaggerates the details of a story, and separately if the headline withholds information.”
It then automates this process across the entire social network by looking for commonly used phrases that match the clickbait criteria. Facebook says most pages don’t engage in this kind of activity, and so won’t see any change in post reach or referral traffic. But those that do should see a noticeable decrease in activity.
This move, though it does echo the News Feed tweak from last year, is part of more recent and broader effort from Facebook to clean up its social network. In the wake of the contentious US election last year and the explosion of fake news, spam, and misinformation campaigns, Facebook is grappling with just how far reaching its influence is and how little control it exerts over bad actors on its platform.
So, in addition to its ongoing fight against fake news, Facebook has pledged to combat government-led “information operations,” which are state-affiliated campaigns to sow disinformation and spread propaganda. It also announced earlier this month that it would reduce the prevalence of spam and links to sites with terrible ad experiences.