
Sweden lays claim to be the first country to test an electric highway for trucks. It's doing so on a 2km (1.2 miles) stretch on the E16 road near the city of Gavle, located north of capital Stockholm. The trial eHighway lets Scania hybrid trucks draw power from through overhead power lines, much like trams.
When connected, the trucks emit zero emissions. They'll revert back to using diesel once off the power grid. Siemens, who's providing the tech for the truck in collaboration with Scania, says the eHighway is "twice as efficient" as conventional engines.
With transport accounting for more than one third of Sweden's carbon dioxide emissions, the country is using the two-year trial to see if it's possible for a further deployment in the future. Besides Sweden, Siemens is also planning another eHighway project in California in partnership with Volvo.
Craigslist mastermind Craig Newmark.
Craigslist founder Craig Newmark has donated $50,000 to the University of San Francisco's "USF in D.C." program, which is "dedicated to inspiring and preparing students for careers of ethical public service," the university said Thursday.
The money will be distributed among 10 students, with each receiving $5,000 for the 2016-2017 academic year. Students participating in USF in D.C. must complete a full-time internship. Some of these internships include positions with the White House Office of Public Engagement, the U.S. Department of Education and the Sierra Club.
Newmark has long been involved with the program's sponsor, USF's Leo T. McCarthy Center for Public Service and the Common Good, where he's served as an advisor and board member. And in 2009, he delivered the commencement address at USF's School of Management.
Newmark founded Craigslist in 1995. The website lets people buy and sell items, connect with other users, and post job listings -- all for free. In 2010, his net worth was estimated at about $400 million, and a year later he launched the philanthropy offshoot craigconnects.
British tech leaders are mostly voting to remain.
The UK voters did it: Britain is now out of the European Union.
The debate has been messy over whether Britain should exit the EU, a move nicknamed Brexit. In part that's because of all the unknown outcomes -- each side has had a tough time building a solid case.
Those wanting to leave are justifying their position with arguments about British sovereignty, the amount of money the UK sends to the EU, and uncontrolled immigration. Some who are voting to remain are doing so because their ties to Europe run deep, others because they want to avoid another recession. Some just don't want to make what would likely be an irreversible decision about the future of the country in a climate of such uncertainty. Regardless, the remain camp has the clout of the world's leading economists behind it.
It's an historic moment: No country has ever left the EU. That makes it impossible to say for sure what will happen now that Brexit is a reality. The ambiguity extends to the effects a leave vote would have on the technology industry, which has generally leaned toward Britain remaining in Europe.
Here's a look at the potential implications.
British citizens have reason to be grateful to the EU, which prioritized broadband in every home, passed data-protection regulations and recognized the needs for countries to work together on cybersecurity issues.
The EU is working toward a digital single market, a seamless online marketplace where digital services can prosper and where industry, employment and the economy all benefit from digitalisation. Issues tackled so far include ensuring people have equal access to Netflix.
The Union is also currently in the process of making sure phone users can enjoy movement from member state to member state without having to pay roaming fees. Such policies have proved popular not just with consumers; all the UK's network operators believe EU membership is good for their businesses, and they're firmly on the side of remaining in the EU.
"Britain needs unrestricted access to the European market in order to compete effectively," Telefonica CEO Ronan Dunne wrote in a blog post on LinkedIn in May. "Without this, we risk serious harm to our economy in the short, medium and long term."
BT, which earns about a fifth of its revenue outside the UK, said it values the way EU membership opens markets. "The board and senior management of BT have been clear for months that the company's prospects are better if the UK stays in a reformed EU," a BT spokesperson said.
The networks are not alone.
A survey of the UK's tech workers by Juniper Research has found that 65 percent think Brexit will have a negative impact on the global tech industry. Seven in ten of those who predict a negative outcome for tech also believe it would be harder for UK tech firms to attract and employ individuals from EU countries.
The UK leads Europe's tech sector, with the country boasting 18 of the EU's 47 private tech companies valued at more than $1 billion, which are also known as unicorns. Nearly two-thirds of respondents to Juniper's survey said they think the tech industry would suffer as a result of reduced funding from the EU for the UK tech sector and that London would be less attractive as a tech hub.
A report published by The Guardian in May showed that many UK unicorns are robustly in favour of EU membership. The likes of Just Eat, Funding Circle, Zoopla and TransferWise are joined by smaller startups like Ustwo, maker of the video game Monument Valley, in backing the remain camp. None of the UK's unicorns is openly supporting the leave campaign.
A dissenting voice from the British tech industry is vacuum pioneer James Dyson. "When the remain campaign tells us no one will trade with us if we leave the EU, sorry, it's absolute cobblers," he said in an interview with The Telegraph earlier this month.
Even the US tech giants, which haven't had the easiest time with EU regulators, are anti-Brexit.
"We appreciate and respect that there are a range of reasons that motivate people on both sides of the debate, but as a business that is very committed to this country, our view is that the UK should remain in the EU," Microsoft wrote in an open letter back in May. Bill Gates, the company's co-founder, has also spoken out separately in favour of the UK remaining in Europe.
Google and Facebook, on the other hand, have remained neutral in the debate, serving instead as platforms for discussion and voter engagement.
Facebook dusted off its "I'm a voter" button for the second time this year in the UK. It also hosted a Facebook Live session in collaboration with Buzzfeed, in which members of the public quizzed key figures from both camps, including Prime Minister David Cameron (remain) and the United Kingdom Independence Party's Nigel Farage (leave).
Google has publicly posted stats and maps showing what kind of Brexit-related search queries it's been receiving. On Thursday, polling day, it has a "Time to Vote" button on its homepage, which links to a Google Plus post featuring voting information from the Electoral Commission.
These companies are not without their own vested interests -- both use London as hubs for many of their activities within Europe and there will undoubtedly be implications for them with the UK leaving the EU.
Updated at 4:57 a.m. PT on Friday: To note that the UK has voted to leave the EU.
T-Mobile is doling out freebies again.
The wireless carrier on Thursday announced a trio of bonuses for its customers -- one of which is open to non-subscribers as well.
Free unlimited data across most of Europe: Beginning July 1 and wrapping up at the end of August, T-Mobile Simple Choice customers will get free unlimited data up to 4G speeds across Europe, except for Andorra. That's far and away better than the usual 128 Kbps speeds that T-Mobile offers as part of its standard Simple Global roaming plan.
Belize joins free international roaming plan: T-Mobile already offers free data and texting to US customers in more than 140 countries. It's now adding Belize to the list, which -- according to the company -- now encompasses every nation in North and South America.
One free hour of GoGo in-flight Wi-Fi for anyone: And lastly, T-Mobile is offering anyone one free hour of GoGo Wi-Fi on their phone during any domestic flight. But it's this weekend only: The offer begins on June 24 and goes until June 26.
These new deals come on the heels of logistical problems with the "T-Mobile Tuesday" giveaways over the past few weeks.
Netflix CEO Reed Hastings at the company's Australian launch.
Netflix CEO Reed Hastings has joined other tech leaders by lashing out at presumptive Republican candidate Donald Trump.
"Trump would destroy much of what is great about America. Hillary Clinton is the strong leader we need, and it's important that Trump lose by a landslide to reject what he stands for," Hastings said in a statement, according to The Washington Post.
Hastings joins executives from tech companies including Facebook, Alphabet and Airbnb in endorsing Clinton for the president of the United States in a collective announcement Wednesday night.
Other tech executives who have thrown their support behind Clinton include:
The list of endorsers also included executives from other companies such as General Motors and Delta
This article also appears in Spanish. Read: Jefe de Netflix dice que Trump 'destruirá' lo mejor de EE.UU.
President Trump's decisions will have a long-term impact on Silicon Valley -- and on how all of us use tech.
In a special video production, CNET takes you inside the hallowed halls of Bletchley Park, the stately home in Buckinghamshire, England where the Enigma code was broken in World War II. Our 360-degree tour, embedded below, will take you into the huts, libraries and work rooms of Bletchley, putting you in the office of Alan Turing, and revealing how German wartime encryptions were broken.
The story of Bletchley Park has been told before -- in books, documentaries and in Hollywood dramatisations such as 2014's "The Imitation Game" -- but never before have its secrets been exposed in such an immersive medium. Whether it's at your desktop with a set of headphones, through Google Cardboard, Samsung's Gear VR or any other virtual reality headgear, we hope you enjoy this exclusive glimpse at one of history's most significant sites. (Embedded video not playing correctly? Watch it on YouTube or Facebook.)
Breaking Enigma began with Polish intelligence -- who figured out how to read encrypted messages before the war began -- and shared their knowledge with Britain and France in 1939, mere months before the Nazi invasion of Poland triggered global conflict. The German military soon enhanced its Enigma encryptions, however, making Bletchley's task infinitely more complex.
Historians credit the groundbreaking work performed at Bletchley during World War II with shortening the war by several years. But the efforts of Turing, Joan Clarke, Gordon Welchman and their many colleagues had ramifications that are still felt decades later. The wartime necessities of crunching through many millions of potential Enigma settings on a daily basis saw computer science leap forwards, with Turing and Welchman's Bombe machine paving the way for many more technological breakthroughs to come.
Apps are big business, with industry leaders like Snapchat worth billions in just a few years. Now, Google is hoping to help the average Joe and Joanna make the next big thing.
The company on Wednesday launched an app-development course with online university Udacity, aimed specifically at the building of apps for its Android operating system. The difference between this and other Google-approved programs is that this one is aimed at people with no previous development experience.
"No programming experience? No problem!" Udacity says. "The skills you learn in this beginning Nanodegree program will accelerate your journey to becoming a working Android Developer."
The course outline says that it takes 165 hours to complete -- that's around 21 days of full-time study (for 8 hours per day). It also adds that the "base salary" of an Android developer falls between $52,400 and $136,000 in the US.
Megan Smith, Chief Technology Office of the United States
A host of companies, including Airbnb, Lyft and Spotify, have pledged to diversify their staff as part of a White House-led initiative to help the technology industry reflect the country's changing population.
Thirty-three companies on Wednesday committed to the Tech Inclusion Pledge, publicly stating their goals to recruit a diverse workforce, publish company data on diversity and invest in partnerships to continue strengthening that initiative.
"The United States is the best place in the world to start and grow a business," Megan Smith, the chief technology officer of the US, said in unveiling the pledge. "Yet, there's so much more that we can do to be able to field our whole team."
Diversity in the technology field has become an increasingly publicized issue, leading big companies such as Google and Apple to release annual reports describing the make-up of their workforces. Smith cited statistics showing that just 3 percent of US venture capital-backed startups are run by women and just 1 percent are run by African Americans.
The pledge, which was announced by the White House along with two other initiatives designed to foster the growth of young companies, comes as the Obama administration hosts the seventh Global Entrepreneurship Summit at Stanford University. The three-day summit has attracted more than 300 investors and over than 700 businesspeople. People from 170 countries are participating.
President Obama announced the first GES during a speech at Cairo University following the Arab Spring in 2011. Since then, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, Malaysia, Morocco and Kenya have hosted the event.
"The more we are helping to grow emerging markets around the world and invest in innovative economic growth solutions the more those become markets for our own goods," Ben Rhodes, a spokesman for the National Security Council, said during a media briefing Wednesday.
The conference culminates on Friday with a chat between President Obama and Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg.
In addition to the pledge, the White House unveiled two initiatives aimed at nurturing small businesses.
The Small Business Administration will roll out online tools that streamline typically arduous permit and licensing processes in more than 100 cities. It will also offer mentoring and business skill programs.
The White House also unveiled an expansion of the National Science Foundation's Innovation Corps, commonly referred to as I-Corps, to three new agencies, including NASA. The entrepreneur-training program helps employees use research data to develop new technology.
Uber has long touted its ride-hailing service as a means to financial independence for its drivers. But a new report finds that drivers in three major US markets are making little more than workers at Walmart.
A BuzzFeed examination of leaked internal price-modeling data and Uber's own calculations suggest that drivers in Denver, Detroit and Houston earned less than $13.25 per hour after expenses in late 2015. Drivers in the Detroit market were particularly hard hit, earning $8.77 per hour after expenses. In comparison, Walmart promised in January it would pay its associates at least $10 per hour.
The report stands in contrast to a study (PDF) Uber released last year that showed Uber drivers earning an average of $19 per hour.
Uber did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Driver compensation has been a touchy subject for Uber. In April, the San Francisco-based startup settled a pair of class-action lawsuits over how it classifies its drivers. Uber agreed to pay as much as $100 million to the roughly 385,000 drivers involved in the lawsuits. The drivers, in turn, would continue to be classified as independent contractors, meaning the company would not be responsible for all sorts of costs, including Social Security, health insurance, paid sick days and overtime.
Anything to save us from clusterf$%&s like this will be welcome.
The US Department of Transportation's Smart City Challenge is almost over, as a winner is to be revealed in the very near future. But it's not really over. In fact, it's started a great conversation about using data and technology to fix some of our infrastructure issues in cities across the country, not just ones participating in the challenge. And a new study suggests that Americans are ready as hell for this to happen.
Mobileye, a manufacturer of collision-avoidance technology and a participant in the Smart City Challenge, commissioned YouGov to see how Americans want technology to improve their transportation experience. 1,164 individuals participated in the online poll, which is weighted to give results representative of US adults over the age of 18.
The main takeaway from this is that folks are growing more tired of traffic and are hopeful that technology can provide an answer. The five biggest issues folks hope smart-city tech can solve are road congestion, availability of public transportation, intersection safety, distracted driving and pollution. Increasing access to public transport alone can have demonstrable benefits to pollution, congestion and distraction.
Of course, it wouldn't be a poll about the future of transportation if it didn't involve autonomous cars. According to Mobileye's poll, the three biggest perceived benefits of self-driving cars are cutting down on fatalities and distracted driving, improving mobility for the young and old and -- again -- reducing congestion.
Many of these ideas are being put into place in various Smart City Challenge submissions, like in San Francisco, which envisions itself as a networked transit utopia, with expanded public transportation access, autonomous buses and ride-sharing out the wazoo. We'll find out which city has the best plan very soon, and if you're interested in seeing more from Mobileye's study, check out the (very tall) infographic below.
IBM is using the power of its Watson supercomputer, "cognitive imaging" and artificial intelligence to help doctors better diagnose patients facing major diseases.
The tech giant on Wednesday announced its Watson Health medical-imaging collaborative, which includes 16 members from health systems, academic medical centers and imaging-tech vendors.
IBM said participants could train its Watson for early detection of ailments like breast cancer, heart disease, diabetes, eye problems and other overlooked health conditions. Cognitive computing and imaging lets health care providers draw insights from massive volumes of sharable data, such as electronic health records, lab results and other reports.
"Our collaboration allows us to help shape the future of medicine by joining efforts to create the tools which will be vital for physicians to make correct decisions based on evidence and complex sources of clinical data," said Dr. Jack Ziffer, chief medical officer for Baptist Health South Florida.
Apple must still fight to win the OK to set up retail stores in India in spite of a new relaxed policy.
Apple must resubmit an application to open retail stores in India as the government relaxes rules on sales in the world's second-largest country, according to a report.
Earlier this week, India revamped rules requiring foreign companies to source at least 30 percent of their components in the country to be eligible to open single-brand stores. The relaxed rules raised the prospect foreign companies, like Apple, would be allowed to set up shop.
The iPhone maker must now resubmit its application to open retail outlets in India, the Times of India reported on Tuesday, citing an unnamed government official. Approval will likely hinge on whether Apple's products are deemed "cutting edge," the report said, adding a government body will examine each case individually.
Neither Apple nor the Indian government immediately responded to a request for comment.
India represents a prime opportunity for Apple. The company already sells the iPhone, iPad and other products online and through resellers. But its market share in the country is around 2 percent. Retail stores could help sales by giving consumers in India the chance to try out the company's devices and work with customer service representatives in person.
Apple has been seeking approval from the Indian government since January to open its own retail stores. But the company had sought an exemption from the local sourcing policy. Apple currently acquires most of its parts from Chinese manufacturers.
The Google  page shows Cox by the Thames in London.
Google's UK site today paid tribute to Jo Cox, the British Member of Parliament who was killed last week near her Yorkshire office.
The company added an "In Remembrance of Jo Cox" link on its UK front page, Google.co.uk, below the Search bar. The link leads to a Google+ page with a photo of Cox near her London houseboat on the Thames just past Tower Bridge.
"Today, on what what would have been her birthday, we'd like to honour and remember Jo Cox MP, who dedicated her life to the belief that there is more that unites us than divides us," the post said.
The page also has a link to a GoFundMe page set up by Cox's family that is raising money for three charities chosen by her family. At time of publication it had raised £1.28 million.
Google's UK site joins those memorializing Jo Cox on what would have been her 42nd birthday.
Nonprofit CODE2040 wants to improve diversity in tech with qualified black and Latino interns.
Silicon Valley is overwhelmingly run by white men, but it doesn't need to be.
The question then is how to improve the industry's diversity. Google is 60 percent white. Microsoft is 59.2 percent. Apple is 54 percent. Meanwhile, blacks and Latinos earn nearly a fifth of all computer science degrees each year, according to the National Science Foundation, but represent just 5 percent of the industry's workforce.
A nonprofit called CODE2040 believes it can help right the scales. The organization aims to help tech companies launch diversity efforts by connecting those companies with a top notch talent pool.
"Sometimes we hear, 'If we could find more people of color that were qualified, we would hire them, but we just can't lower the bar,'" said Chris Simamora, director of the Fellows Program. CODE2040 wants to dispel that idea.
Today, marks the start of its 5th Fellows Program, placing 87 top performing black and Latino college students in summer internships with companies such as Apple, LinkedIn, Intuit, Slack and others. The interns won't be relegated to getting coffee either.
There are a few reasons why diversity advocates say Silicon Valley could benefit from shedding its pattern of homogeneity. Studies indicate that more diverse teams, in terms of gender and race, show greater creativity and experimentation -- and get better results. What's more, there's an economic argument. When the White House launched its TechHire initiative in 2015 to get more Americans plugged into tech jobs, the administration said  employers need to tap different communities to fill the more than half million open jobs in information technology.
CODE2040 isn't the only organization hoping to change Silicon Valley. Digital NEST, based in rural Watsonville, California, functions like a coworking space for kids and young adults in the community, and offers not only classes on tech and professional skills, but visits to Silicon Valley. There's also Code for Progress, aimed at women and people of color, which offers fellowships covering training and internships in front-end and back-end software development.
Tech companies, including Facebook, Google and Intel, have also launched programs and various initiatives to address diversity. PayPal, for example, has a paid internship program called Recharge that helps women with tech backgrounds restart their careers after being out of the workforce for a few years.
CODE2040 began in 2012 with 5 students, inspired by founders Tristan Walker and Laura Weidman Powers' first hand experience seeing the lack of diversity in tech. The organization gets its name from the belief that by the mid-2040s, the majority of people in the United States will be minorities. Simamora said CODE2040 is laying the groundwork so these companies can remain competitive amid shifting demographics.
"This is good opportunity from an economic imperative. With the competitiveness of the sector, the US as a whole is going to rely on the ability to attract, hire, and retain diverse talent, and also to create products and services that speak to those communities," Simamora said.
Next year, Simamora said, the organization expects to have as many as 150 interns. It's received funding and support from big names like Intel, which invested $1.3 million in the organization in February. In March, Google funded the expansion of a CODE2040 program that offers a $40,000 stipend to minority entrepreneurs working in seven cities outside Silicon Valley.
Simamora said if CODE2040 succeeds, it may help communities outside Silicon Valley in addition to helping companies diversify their ranks.
"The talent is out there, and we're building bridges to help the sector find that talent," Simamora said.
Say "women in tech" and the phrase automatically conveys the sense of too few women, making less money and wielding less say and sway in shaping the industry. While that's true, gender disparity isn't a numbers story. Instead, it's about what women and men, companies and universities are doing today to solve outdated group think.
Elon Musk, CEO of Tesla and SpaceX and co-chair of OpenAI.
OpenAI, the non-profit artificial intelligence research company, wants to put a household robot under your roof. In a post signed by ex-Googler Ilya Sutskever, CTO Greg Brockman and company co-chairs Sam Altman and Elon Musk -- better known as the CEO of SpaceX and Tesla -- OpenAI announced that it was working on a robot that could take care of chores around the house.
OpenAI isn't building the machine itself, however. Using an off-the-shelf automaton manufactured by a different company, it wants to develop learning algorithms sophisticated enough to create a general-purpose robot that can receive commands and complete household tasks.
The post also detailed some other goals for the open-source AI company, including ways to measure progress of artificial intelligence development, making a machine that can understand natural language and creating an AI that follows in the footsteps of Google's DeepMind, capable of playing sophisticated games like Go.
Robo-butlers, here we come.
Agriculture is a massively important industry in Japan -- so naturally, bugs and other pests can be a bit of a problem. A joint project between Saga University and IT firm OPTiM is using drone technology to help fight the good fight.
They developed the Agri Drone to reduce the use of pesticides through the application of drones. Primarily used at night, it utilises infrared and thermal cameras to shoot targeted doses of pesticides where insects are congregating in harmful numbers. As it's a targeted shot, the idea is the drone greatly reduces plants' over-exposure to pesticide.
The Agri Drone has recently  been successfully put through its paces in test runs, guarding both soy and potato crops in the Saga prefecture. It was successful in seeking out and destroying 50 different types of pest, including midges and moths.
If spraying chemicals is something that farmers wish to avoid, the Agri Drone comes with another option in tackling insects in the form of a suspended bug zapper. The drone can be assigned the task of delivering a glowing, insect-enticing electric payload to the points at which the pests are congregating.
Although agricultural drones aren't a new idea, few of the current drones available are used for directly combating pests with targeted attacks. Many of the existing drones also require a level of manual control in conjunction with mounted cameras. Agri Drone is capable of fully autonomous patrol and targeting.
Given the potential risks of contamination by pesticides and the ongoing debate as to the effects on the ecosystem, many farmers are struggling with the need to keep crops safe from destruction to ensure a good harvest while making sure as to not contaminate soil. Saga University's hope is that the Agri Drone will provide that middle ground.
While the project is advancing well, with its first tests out of the way, the developers are further refining the efficiency at targeting different crops and insects. With rice being a major staple of diet in Japan, the primary targets for the drone are the insects that particularly damage rice fields. With its current testing out of the way, it looks like farmland pests may just have a new nemesis.
Apple only sells one laptop with an optical disc drive and a spinning hard drive -- and that laptop may not be long for this world. The 13-inch unibody MacBook Pro, originally introduced in 2008 and unchanged since 2012, is reportedly being pulled from Apple Store shelves.
Apple Insider and The Next Web both confirm that the laptop has disappeared from some Apple physical retail locations. You can still buy one on Apple's website, but there it's typically buried beneath the company's other computers.
The move would seem to suggest that Apple is clearing space for new laptops, rumored to arrive by the end of the year. Even Apple's newest MacBook Pros are overdue for a refresh; their Intel processors are now two years out of date. The new laptops are rumored to come with fingerprint sensors and an OLED touchstrip that can act as a set of additional colorful buttons.
Reports say new ultra-thin 13 and 15-inch MacBook Pros are on their way in 2016. The latest iPhone 7 rumors keep rolling, and Tim Cook sees the iPhone in a 1670 picture.
Apple didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Apple has a history of keeping legacy gadgets on sale for years after newer ones are announced. The iPod Classic, the final iPod with a spinning hard drive, stuck around until September 2014.
All the latest Apple news, featuring developments on the iPhone, iPad, Macbooks, OS X and much more.
Uber's controversial surge pricing has led to legal problems.
A federal judge says ride-hailing service Uber can be added as a defendant to an antitrust lawsuit against the company's co-founder and CEO, Travis Kalanick.
Uber is a "necessary party" in the lawsuit, US District Judge Jed Rakoff said in a decision made public Monday.
The decision, however, is good news for Uber because it could push the suit toward arbitration, something that Kalanick and the company prefers. Uber's user agreement calls for disputes to be settled through arbitration and Rakoff said the lawsuit was directed specifically at Kalanick to get around that policy.
"While plaintiff now pretends that he 'seeks no relief whatsoever against Uber,' such an assertion is at odds with any fair reading of plaintiff's claim," Rakoff said.
At issue is surge pricing, which happens when demand for drivers spikes, and prices for rides, which are set via algorithm, do too. It's a controversial practice and one that's upset consumers.
The antitrust class action suit was filed in December, saying that Kalanick "had orchestrated and facilitated an illegal price-fixing conspiracy."
The plaintiff, Spencer Meyer, made the claim that "Mr. Kalanick, while disclaiming that he was running a transportation company, had conspired with Uber drivers to use Uber's pricing algorithm to set the prices charged to Uber riders."
The result, he alleges, is less price competition among Uber drivers (even though drivers are classified as independent contractors), which hurts consumers.
Samsung is also helping to develop a national Internet of Things strategy.
Samsung is prepared to sink a lot of money into the Internet of Things.
Speaking at an event in Washington, DC, Samsung Vice Chairman Oh-Hyun Kwon outlined the company's strategy for building out the web-connected network of devices we refer to as the Internet of Things, or IoT, according to a press release. Samsung's two-pronged approach involves investing money into research and development and helping guide US policymakers.
Samsung plans to sink $1.2 billion into US-based research and development and investments over the next four years, with the goal of being able to build systems that serve individual needs but can scale up to provide broader social benefits. As an example, Kwon cited keeping people out of nursing homes with new technologies.
"Today, IoT is changing individual lives -- helping people to age in their own homes," he said. "But tomorrow, using IoT, we can give the same independence to millions of Americans.  We can keep people out of hospitals and nursing homes."
Kwon also announced an initiative, hosted by the Information Technology Industry Council,  to develop a national IoT strategy that can guide policymakers and prevent regulation that might hinder the ability of devices to talk to each other. The ITI lists the strategic issues that it plans to address as:
Apple now has to start doling out money to the plaintiffs as part of its e-book price-fixing suit.
E-book buyers affected by Apple's alleged price-fixing scheme will receive a bit of money starting Tuesday.
Millions of e-book purchasers will get either credits or checks for twice their losses, legal firm Hagens Berman, which helped litigate the class action lawsuit, said on Tuesday. Apple is on the hook for $400 million in damages plus an additional $30 million to pay the legal fees for Hagens Berman and $20 million to the state attorney generals who became involved in the case.
On an individual basis, each plaintiff in the suit will receive $1.57 in credit for most e-books they bought and a $6.93 credit for every e-book purchased that was on the New York Times bestseller list. Consumers who purchased e-books from Amazon, Barnes & Noble, Kobo and Apple between April 1, 2010 and May 21, 2012 are eligible to receive credits deposited directly in their accounts or checks sent through the mail.
The e-book market opened up a new but potentially precarious arena for publishers, who were initially worried that sales of digital books would cut into those of traditional printed books. The Apple case also exemplified concerns over how to price electronic books. Publishers became so obsessed with controlling the prices of e-books that several of them were willing to break antitrust laws.
In August 2011, a lawsuit filed by two individuals accused Apple of conspiring to fix e-book prices with five publishers: Hachette Book Group, HarperCollins Publishers, Holtzbrinck Publishers, Penguin Group and Simon & Schuster. The Department of Justice and the attorneys general of several states joined in with their own suits against the publishers. The initial lawsuit, the DOJ's civil action and the suits by the AG's were eventually coordinated together in the Southern District of New York.
The lawsuits charged that the actions of Apple and the publishers prevented other e-book sellers from competing on price, thereby increasing the prices that consumers had to pay for e-books. Attorneys for the plaintiffs alleged that the price-fixing between Apple and the publishers pushed the cost on some e-books to $12.99 or $14.99 from the $9.99 charged by Amazon. The $12.99 and $14.99 numbers are general examples to help explain the impact of the conspiracy, according to a spokeswoman for Hagens Berman.
After being found guilty of violating antitrust laws by a US District Judge in 2013 and by an Appeals court in 2015, Apple's request for an appeal to the US Supreme Court was denied this past March, forcing it to settle with the plaintiffs. The other publishers settled before the trial. Hagens Berman litigated the case jointly with the DOJ and attorneys general from 33 US states and territories.
Apple did not immediately respond to CNET's request for comment.
All the latest Apple news, featuring developments on the iPhone, iPad, Macbooks, OS X and much more.
Now, I have Oasis' "Wonderwall" stuck in my head, except I'm singing it as "Powerwall." Great.
Stationary in-house batteries will soon be all the rage. Tesla announced its Powerwall, and Nissan followed in its footsteps with xStorage. Now, BMW's getting in on the action with its currently unnamed energy storage solution. While they may all sound the same, BMW's offering has a trick up its sleeve.
Whereas xStorage and Powerwall have tidy looking batteries that are built for that specific purpose, BMW's system is a bit more utilitarian. Instead of using a proprietary battery, it relies on the high-voltage battery plucked right out of the i3 electric city car. It can also use "Second Life" batteries, which are batteries that are retired from automotive use.
Incorporating technology from Beck Automation, BMW's storage system will provide off-grid power for appliances and other electrical devices. It should be able to supply about a day's charge at a time, as the battery's capacity should be between 22 kWh and 33 kWh, while typical daily household energy use is somewhere around 15 to 30 kWh, according to BMW.
BMW touts the system's "plug and play" nature as the key asset that separates it from the competition. Sure, it's not exactly the most elegant solution, but it's better than just throwing your hands up in frustration when you realize your i3's expired battery is still useful, just not in a vehicle.
But if you can accept the upfront cost of the battery, or are willing to repurpose your spent i3 battery, you could stand to save a considerable chunk of change. By charging the battery during off-peak hours and using that cheaper electricity in place of the grid, the savings will add up, albeit slowly.
The Powerwall battery back-up system, introduced by Tesla Motors, can store electricity generated by solar panels or taken from the grid during off-peak hours, then power appliances and devices in a home.
Build your village, train your troops and battle with thousands of others in Clash of Clans, the No. 2 top-grossing iPhone app of all time.
The lovable barbarian, the sly archer and the rest of the gang from Clash of Clans just found a new home.
Chinese internet giant Tencent will acquire a majority stake in Finnish game maker Supercell, best known for the blockbuster mobile game, for $8.6 billion, the companies said Tuesday.
Tencent will own an 84 percent stake, a majority of which will be purchased from Japanese telecom giant SoftBank, which bought a majority share in 2013. The gaming firm will control the rest of the shares and SoftBank will part ways with the company. The deal values the company at $10.2 billion.
The move to Tencent represents an opportunity for Supercell to tap into a new market with the support of a huge Chinese player. Clash of Clans remains a top-grossing app in Apple's App Store even as the company attempts to replicate the success with its follow-up titles.
"This new partnership offers us exciting growth opportunities in China, where we will be able to reach hundreds of millions of new gamers via Tencent's channels," Ilkka Paananen, CEO of Supercell, said in a statement.
Supercell's hit games Clash of Clans, Hay Day, Boom Beach and Clash Royale have all made it to the global-grossing top 10 list. The team attributes its success in part to their organizational structure. Small teams, or "cells," focus on each of the games, an arrangement Tencent isn't going to mess with.
"We are excited that Supercell is joining our global network of game partners, and will preserve their independence and enhance their advantages, thus bringing even more exciting gaming experiences to players around the world," said Martin Lau, president of Tencent, in a statement.
The acquisition is yet another in a string of high-profile partnerships. Tencent also owns Riot Games and invests in many other gaming companies like Epic Games and Activision Blizzard.
Supercell will retain its helm in Helsinki, Finland, while continuing to expand its reach.
"It's difficult to get into the Chinese market without collaboration from Tencent and [Supercell] will benefit tremendously," said Joost van Dreunen, CEO of SuperData Research, a data provider for the global games market. "It's China, the sky is the limit, this is where they built the Angry Birds theme park, who knows, maybe there will be a Clash of Clans theme park."
For SoftBank, the deal represents a move away from its push to invest in different startups, a strategy embraced by Nikesh Arora, former Google executive and SoftBank president. Arora on Tuesday stepped down from the Japanese company amid pressure from shareholders.
Arora remains cordial about the decision and expressed his thoughts on Twitter, making reference to SoftBank Chief Executive Masayoshi Son.
All good. Masa wanted to be CEO for longer, I did as promised, time to move on. https://t.co/cQsgTe1Ig6
-- Nikesh Arora (@nikesharora) June 21, 2016
The deal is expected to close by the third quarter of this year.
Update, 2:13 p.m. PT: Added a quote from the CEO of SuperData Research.
Snickerdoodle, just one of the (probably) millions of cat photos posted daily.
The Instagram photo-sharing service delivered a mind-boggling data point on Tuesday: It now has 500 million users, 300 million of whom use the service daily and more than 80 percent of whom live outside the US.
Just try to wrap your head around how many photos that is.
And if just one out of every 100 of the 300 million active users posts a cat picture a day, that's 3  million cat photos. A day.
Apple's the most popular globally.
On Monday, LinkedIn published its Top Attractors report -- the list of 40 companies that job seekers most want to work at and that are the best at retaining them. The top company globally? Apple.
Though Apple doesn't lead the US list -- Google does -- the first 10 in the US are all tech-related and all big names, including Salesforce, Facebook, Apple and Amazon in the top five. In the UK, Google comes in fourth; the retailer John Lewis tops that regional list, with Virgin Media, Harrods and the PA Consulting Group rounding out its five.
In Australia, accounting is oddly popular, with KPMG and PwC at the top, followed by Commonwealth Bank, Coles and Deloitte consulting.
The report also has breakouts for Brazil, France and India.
President Obama made cybersecurity discussions a priority on his Chinese counterpart's recent US visit.
A sharp drop-off in the number of cyberattacks on US interests originating in China has been recorded by security firm FireEye. The group said in a report published Monday that it suspected the decline is a reflection of work by the US and Chinese governments to rein in the activities of groups conducting the attacks.
At one point such attacks -- many aimed at Silicon Valley tech companies -- were occurring on an almost daily basis. This is no longer the case, in part thanks to the US government's plea to China to lay off its cyberspying efforts, which are mainly designed to steal industrial secrets from successful US businesses. Chinese military reforms conducted by President Xi Jinping are also thought by FireEye to have played a key role in the decline of attacks.
FireEye reviewed the activity of 72 groups operating in China or representing Chinese interests, going back three and a half years. It found that since mid-2014, there has been a steep decline in the number of attacks not only on the US, but on 25 other countries, including Russia, Japan and several European nations.
This predates the meeting in September 2015 between President Barack Obama and the Chinese leader, who agreed that neither country would "conduct or knowingly support cyber-enabled theft of intellectual property." It seems that this was not "a watershed moment," according to FireEye, but rather "one point amongst dramatic changes that had been taking place for years."
Since late 2015, however, 13 China-based groups have compromised corporate networks in the US, Europe and Japan, FireEye said. They have also targeted government, military and commercial entities in the countries surrounding China.
"We have not seen evidence of a coordinated shift in the behavior of recently active China-based groups," the FireEye report said. "Tactical changes appear to be specific to each group's mission and resources, and in response to public exposure of its cyber operations."
Airbnb and Uber have offered consumers more choice, but many cities have banned the services for regulatory reasons.
Uber and Airbnb may be much loved by their customers, but the ride-hailing app and accommodation rental service have caused havoc the world over by challenging the status quo.
Mayors from 10 cities announced an alliance on Tuesday to help them better regulate Uber, Airbnb and others of their ilk, often known as sharing-economy companies. By writing a rulebook together, the mayors hope to make their position on companies setting up shop in their cities clearer and stronger, Bloomberg reports.
New York and Paris are set to take the lead on the project, with representatives joining them from cities including Barcelona, Seoul, Athens and Toronto. The mayors met for the first time last month in Amsterdam. Paris -- Airbnb's most popular destination -- is calling for a framework of guidelines to be published by October.
If the framework comes together it could become easier for future sharing-economy companies to plan their entry into multiple new markets and reduce the number of lawsuits and other roadblocks they encounter along the way. Only on Monday this week, short-term Airbnb rentals were faced with a proposal for tighter regulation in New York. But new rules could also benefit Uber and Airbnb customers.
Currently the experience of using these services can vary from city to city, and the hope is to provide a consistent experience for consumers and tourists in each location, a spokesman for New York deputy mayor for housing and economic development Alicia Glen told Bloomberg.
"Having the 20 or 30 biggest urban markets of the world all operating under entirely different rules doesn't do much good for anyone," he said.
Airbnb said in a statement that it would continue to work with officials around the world to address the "unique policy needs" of specific cities.
Uber did not immediately respond to request for comment.
Update 7:24 a.m. PT:  Added Airbnb statement.
Drivers for the car service may start asking for tips, resulting in awkward rides for those without cash. Meanwhile, music service Tidal gets a boost from Beyonce's "Lemonade," but the album is also on iTunes and Amazon.
Walmart, the world's largest retailer, is selling off its Chinese venture, Yihaodian, to Chinese rival JD.com in exchange for a stake in the e-commerce giant.
JD.com, based in Beijing, is China's second largest e-commerce company, making around $28 billion profit in 2015. The deal, worth some $1.5 billion, will see Walmart taking a 5 percent stake in JD.com in exchange for Yihaodian, China's largest online retailer specialising in groceries.
The move by Walmart comes as western companies, such as Apple, are getting more aggressive about making in-roads into China, the world's largest economy. E-commerce in particular is big business in the country -- industry leader Alibaba clocked over $14 billion in revenue in just one day last November.
Yihaodian was launched in 2008 by former Dell China executives in the midst of a tech boom in the People's Republic that saw the rise of companies like Alibaba, Baidu and TenCent. Walmart first invested in Yihaodian in 2012 before buying the company outright in 2015.
The decision to sell Yihaodian was purely strategic, according to a statement from Walmart. It gives Walmart a powerful new ally with which to crack the increasingly competitive Chinese market and opens the way for Walmart goods to be sold via JD.com's online channels.
"We're excited about teaming up with such a strong leader in JD.com, and the potential that this new relationship creates for customers in China, as well as for our businesses," said Doug McMillon, president and CEO of Walmart.
Apple might not be supporting the Republican National Convention this year, but it doesn't appear to be giving up on the GOP entirely. CEO Tim Cook will help raise money for House Speaker Paul Ryan next week, reported Politico.
Tim Cook is reportedly hosting a fundraiser for Rep. Paul Ryan.
A private breakfast hosted by Cook along with Apple's Gary Wipfler is said to be taking place on June 28 in Menlo Park, California, according to an invite obtained by Politico. Funds from the event will reportedly benefit both Ryan and a committee dedicated to helping elect other House Republicans.
Cook is hosting the fundraiser on his own accord, said Politico, since Apple does not have a political action committee or make contributions to individual candidates or parties.
This news comes shortly after Politico reported that Apple won't be supporting the RNC this summer due to Donald Trump's controversial remarks about immigrants, minorities and women. The presumptive GOP nominee -- who owns millions in Apple stock -- has criticized the company on a number of fronts. In February, Trump called for a boycott of Apple because of its refusal to help the FBI hack into an iPhone belonging to a terrorist. He's also called on Apple to build its products in the US, rather than in China.
Apple joins other companies, including storied tech brand HP, in turning away from the Republican proceedings this time around.
Apple did not immediately respond to CNET's request for comment on the report. Ryan could not immediately be reached for comment.
All the latest Apple news, featuring developments on the iPhone, iPad, Macbooks, OS X and much more.
Investors at Facebook's shareholders meeting Monday voted in all of the directors up for re-election, including Peter Thiel (shown here in a 2014 photo).
Facebook shareholders aren't un-friending Peter Thiel this year.
A month after the PayPal co-founder and early Facebook backer said he was bankrolling a series of lawsuits against Gawker Media, Facebook's shareholders decided he should stay on the board.
Thiel was re-elected alongside seven other board members, including Marc Andreessen, the prominent venture capitalist; Reed Hastings, CEO of Netflix;  and Erskine Bowles, president emeritus of the University of North Carolina.
News of Thiel's campaign to undo Gawker came after the popular media group lost a $140 million lawsuit filed by the wrestler Hulk Hogan, whose real name is Terry Bollea. Bollea claimed Gawker violated his privacy when it published portions of a sex tape showing him and the now-estranged wife of a friend four years ago. Earlier this month, Gawker filed for bankruptcy and agreed to sell itself to digital publisher Ziff Davis for $90 million to $100 million.
Facebook had signaled earlier it didn't want to replace Thiel. "Peter did what he did on his own, not as a Facebook board member," Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg said June 1 at Recode's Code Conference.
Thiel, Andreessen and Hastings didn't attend the shareholders meeting, though about 100 investors did.
Investors also had a chance to question Facebook's executives on a number of issues during a Q&A session following the board elections.  These included concerns about bias following revelations that its trending news feed may be weighted against conservative news organizations. The company said again that its investigation didn't find any systemic bias.
And CEO Mark Zuckerberg responded to a shareholder who asked if the company is planning to merge its Messenger and WhatsApp messaging services. About  2 billion people use the two services. "We're not planning on combining them," Zuckerberg said, adding they serve different purposes.
Facebook also said it's keeping a close eye on terrorism, taking down that type of content whenever it's reported. The company said it works with law enforcement if there's an imminent threat. The more people who use the platform, the more it combats extremism and terrorism, executives said.
Patti Hade, a 62-year-old physical therapist, flew to California from Saint Paul, Minnesota, to hear executives talk about competition. "Quite a bit" of her stock portfolio was tied up in Facebook shares, she said, which she bought at its IPO in 2012 and has continued buying since. She was especially curious to hear Facebook's strategy for competing against Snapchat, which the company tried to buy three years ago.
She came away disappointed by executives' comments, which she considered too brief.  "I wanted more information," she said.
Not everyone seemed as disappointed though. When Zuckerberg was asked whether his philanthropic efforts were going to distract him from his day-to-day job at Facebook, he promised they wouldn't.
"I plan on being involved in running Facebook for a very long time," he said to shareholders' applause.
Update, 12:41 p.m. PT: Adds Facebook shareholder comment, details about the event.
The CEO of Tesla says the Model S floats well enough to be used as a boat, but he doesn't recommend trying it.
Elon Musk tweeted out an article which featured a car driving through a flooded tunnel. It wasn't just any car -- it was a Tesla Model S. Musk, the CEO of Tesla, confirmed that the Model S can float well enough to act as a boat if need be. He also made sure to tell the world that this kind of usage of a Tesla vehicle is not recommended.
Subscribe: CNET Update delivers the biggest tech news of the day, breaking down trends, hot devices, new apps and what's ahead. Subscribe to the podcast via the links below.
iTunes (HD) | iTunes (SD) | iTunes (HQ) | iTunes (MP3)
RSS (HD) | RSS (SD) | RSS (HQ)| RSS (MP3)
Download the audio version of today's Update.
Welcome to the second largest country in the world, Genius Bar dudes.
After Apple initially said it would hold off on plans to open retail stores in India, it has reversed course and will reportedly go forward as planned.
The sticking point was a requirement by foreign direct investment (FDI) norms that require 30 percent of goods sold in the country be locally sourced. According to a report by TNW, that requirement was relaxed today.
As noted by 9to5Mac, the source cited by TNW doesn't exactly stipulate that the relaxed ruling is targeted toward Apple Stores explicitly, but according to Times of India Apple is expected to benefit.
Apple didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Previous reports indicate that the relaxed requirement is only good for two or three years. During that time, Apple would be expected to work out agreements with local manufacturers under which it would be able to buy its components locally and eventually meet the local sourcing rules. Apple acquires almost all of its components from China.
India, with a massive population second only to China, is as a large growth opportunity for Apple. The company's sales in India have been relatively weak, owing to the high price of iPhones compared to competitors. Along with permission to sell refurbished phones in the country, the opening of physical Apple Stores is seen as a crucial advancement in India.
Apple Maps will watch for every opportunity to help, even if you use Google Maps.

Depending on how you look at it, Apple Maps is about to get a lot more helpful or a lot more annoying.
As revealed in a prerelease beta of iOS 10 software, Apple Maps now watches what users are copying and pasting in their iPhone or iPad. Copy an address, for example, and Apple Maps' upcoming app widget will offer driving directions.
This function will work even if you copy a location inside the Google Maps app and is designed to make it easier for you to send directions to a friend by text or email.
Apple opens up its Maps app to developers and beefs up traffic and routing options.
After you copy an address in Google Maps, Apple Maps will acknowledge that it's been watching you via the message: "Recently viewed in Google Maps." Depending on the source, the message could also say "Recently viewed in Waze" if coming from Google's crowdsourced traffic app or "Recently viewed in Safari" if coming from the web.
Another look at the new functionality.

It's unclear whether the data is transmitted to Apple.
Apple plans to release iOS 10 for free this fall, and some of these beta features could change by then.
The Maps capability is part of a revamped set of functions for the mobile software's widgets feature, first introduced two years ago in iOS 8. The beta version includes two other maps-related functions besides the new one for directions dubbed "Maps Destinations." "Maps Nearby" will surface places like lunch joints and coffee spots, while "Maps Transit" will give service schedules for bus and subway routes. The widgets are activated when you swipe right on the phone's home screen.
Companies have been creating widgets for all manner of actions, from converting currency to displaying to-do lists. Google Maps and Waze have their own widgets, designed to help people quickly access functions like driving directions, without having to tap on the app's icon first.
To be sure, Apple's Maps app still has hurdles to overcome. The company released it in 2012 to waves of criticism, after users discovered it put some landmarks in the wrong locations and sometimes offered poor driving directions. Shortly after, Google released its own dedicated mapping app for the iPhone and iPad, marking the end of its five-year partnership with Apple to power the iPhone's built-in mapping app.
Apple has spent the past four years refining its Maps app. Another upcoming Maps feature will pin the site of your parked car to save you the headache of trying to remember it yourself.
All the latest coverage from Apple's annual developers conference.
Facebook isn't researching user data all willy-nilly. Instead, there's a review process that squares research with the company's privacy policy and involves ethicists and experts from inside and outside the company. That's according to a blog post published Wednesday by two people involved in managing research at Facebook.
"Research only begins when the full group agrees that the benefits -- to Facebook, our community, and our society -- are clear and present, and that potential downsides have been addressed," wrote Facebook Public Policy Research Manager Molly Cohn Jackman and Research Management Lead Lauri Kanerva.
The company's research has gotten its share of negative press. That's because not only has Facebook research reached into the vast terabytes of personal user information for insights on humanity, but it's also seemed to reach out and touch our lives. That was the criticism levied at a study that appeared to play with people's moods, as well as a not-so-reassuring promise not to try to influence the 2016 presidential elections.
Facebook research that looks at whether a new color or shape works best for a button won't trigger a review from an internal panel of five research reviewers, Jackman and Kanerva wrote Wednesday, but when research focuses on a particular group of people or "topics that may be considered deeply personal," the review process kicks in.
"When in doubt, we like to have more eyes on a research proposal than fewer," they wrote.
Did this year's WWDC try to cram in too much?
Missed Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference on Monday? No worries. You can tune into the entire event courtesy of YouTube.
The event, which was held at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium in San Francisco, was streamed live, but you needed an Apple device running Safari in order to catch it. Sites such as CNET also live-blogged the event from start to finish.
If you want to see it for yourself now, you can turn to YouTube where the entire event is up for viewing. This year, Apple packed a lot of announcements and demos into a little more than two hours.
Apple runs WWDC each year to attract developers and encourage them to creating apps for its mobile devices, Mac computers and Apple TV. The first day of the event is also aimed toward the public as Apple tries to excite people about its upcoming software products. Generating that excitement is more important than ever as the company finds itself in a hardware slump with sagging sales of its iPhones and iPads.
This year, Apple demoed its new iOS 10 mobile software with enhancements to Messages, Maps, Photos and Apple Music. The company also showed us MacOS Sierra, the new operating system for its computers, touting such features as support for Apple Pay and the Siri voice assistant.
The latest features in Apple's new smartwatch software, WatchOS 3, showed off quicker navigation tricks and speedier performance. And the Apple TV's TVOS expands the ability to search for information via Siri.
The event may have been jam-packed with features, but no one item really stood out. As one example, Apple faces greater competition in the world of virtual assistants with Microsoft Cortana, Amazon Alexa and similar products vying for your attention. Apple did expand Siri's capabilities with support for third-party apps and the Mac, but Siri still needs to do more to counter its rivals.
Apple should have more tricks up its sleeve when it holds its expected iPhone event in September. The company needs to shake up its offerings and surprise us with that "one more thing" if it expects to climb out of its current slump.

All the latest coverage from Apple's annual developers conference.
Paying with a Capital One credit card could earn you a free Uber trip.
Uber is rewarding your loyalty with free rides -- if you're a Capital One customer.
Uber, the globally popular app that lets you dial up a private-hire car from your phone, has partnered with personal-finance company Capital One for the ride-hailing app's first loyalty program. If you pay with a Quicksilver or QuicksilverOne credit card from now until next March, every 10th ride is free.
The free ride is available up to a value of $15. Every nine trips, the free 10th ride is automatically added to your Uber account. Because of the credit cards involved, the program is available only in the US.
When asked if this kind of offer could be made available to a wider population, Uber Vice President of Strategic Initiatives David Richter didn't rule it out. "This is the first loyalty program" from Uber, he said, "but it could be extended to other use cases."
The initiative follows recent announcements from Uber including the option to schedule rides in advance. Previously, you could arrange for a car only to come straight to you. The service also recently changed its wait policy to try to cut down on the time drivers spend waiting for passengers to show up.
The White House and Oracle teamed up to empower women in computer science as more jobs require tech skills.
Silicon Valley is starting to put its money where its mouth is on women's education.
The latest example: Oracle, a leading business software maker, teamed up with the White House back in April to donate money to support the Obama administration's Computer Science for All initiative. The goal is to empower and engage student through various computer science programs in over 1,100 US institutions. They hope the money and attention will draw young people around the world into learning about science, technology, engineering and math, or STEM. At the time, the company committed $200 million to the cause.
On Tuesday, Oracle added another $3 million specifically to focus the program on girls and women worldwide.
The money will help to fund programs to send 55,000 young girls around the world to various summer computing camps, codefests, workshops and conferences. The company also expects to expand its computer science efforts in Egypt over the next four years, where it invested $1 million in educational resources and services.
Ultimately, the tech giant hopes these programs will funnel more people into tech careers.
"We want more girls focused on building upon science and math fundamentals and we want more women choosing the technical disciplines because they are both prepared to do so and because they believe it will advance their career opportunities," Oracle's (female) CEO, Safra Catz, said in a statement.
For the past couple years, the tech industry has been advocating on behalf of STEM education, encouraging schools and governments to invest heavily in these types of jobs and teach computer skills to children at younger ages. Of course, the more people who learn these skills, the more potential employees there could be working at Facebook, Apple and Google.
But there's a murkier side to this too. Tech companies have often claimed too few women and minorities earn STEM degrees, a seeming excuse for employing mostly white men, particularly in leadership positions.
Oracle Academy, a computer science educational program, and Burning Glass Technology, an analytics company, recently did research and found that programming jobs grow 50 percent faster than the market average. As technology is increasingly present in people's personal and professional lives, there is a need for computer science learning. According to a summary program report of the College Board's AP program in 2015, only two percent of all participants took Computer Science and only 22 percent of the participants were female.
Say "women in tech" and the phrase automatically conveys the sense of too few women, making less money and wielding less say and sway in shaping the industry. While that's true, gender disparity isn't a numbers story. Instead, it's about what women and men, companies and universities are doing today to solve outdated group think.
What would Kramer do on Facebook Live? Nothing, Seinfeld says.
If you let anyone ask you a question, be prepared for doozies.
That's probably how Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg shrugged off a tongue-in-cheek message from a fan who was watching his Tuesday question-and-answer forum on the social network's live video service.
"Are the allegations true that you're secretly a lizard?" Zuck read. "I'm going to have to go with no. I am not a lizard."
So started an hour in which the 32-year-old head of the world's largest social network discussed his daughter Max, his efforts to build artificial intelligence software, and his broken arm. All told, about 117,000 people around the world tuned in to watch.
He held the event using Facebook's Live video service, which promises to make everyone with a phone and an internet connection the star of their own broadcast. It's become must-have functionality in Silicon Valley, with established companies, like Amazon and Twitter, and startups, such as Meerkat, building and buying live video services.
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg held a Facebook Live event this morning and managed to land a pretty big guest: legendary comedian Jerry Seinfeld. Watch Zuck squirm when Seinfeld asks some personal questions.
Facebook began widely offering its own live video function to users last year. Since then, it's become a venue for everything from celebrities hyping their latest movies to a mom showing off a toy mask that looks like the Star Wars character Chewbacca. The event marked the first time Zuck used Facebook Live for a Q&A.
And since it's live, there's no editing. In this case, Zuckerberg had to continue the broadcast through an attack of the hiccups. Later, he grabbed comedian Jerry Seinfeld, who'd visited the company's Menlo Park, California, offices to try Facebook's Oculus virtual reality goggles.
Seinfeld's burning question: What does Zuckerberg do first in the morning? "You go to the bathroom," Seinfeld posited.
"No, the first thing I do is look at my phone," Zuckerberg said matter of factly. And since he's nearsighted and doesn't wear his contacts to bed, Zuckerberg said he has to hold his phone very close to his face. "I didn't expect to talk about this publicly."
We didn't expect him to either.
Zuckerberg's been holding public question-and-answer sessions for more than a year, discussing issues ranging from hate speech to being a new father. (He says being a dad is "awesome," though apparently his daughter has been waking him up lately).
He used the session to address weighty subjects like connecting the world, entrepreneurship and the potential of VR. Zuck also dispelled a rumor that Facebook would charge for its service someday.
"Facebook is free. It always has been," he said. "We're not going to charge. That's why we're ad-supported."
Zuckerberg also gave an update on his effort to build artificial intelligence software for his home. He can now voice-control the cameras and gates at his house, and he might hold another live video session soon to show it off.
Seinfeld wasn't impressed.
"To get the door is not that much work," he said mockingly. "[You're] going to put in a tremendous amount of work to save us walking to the door and opening it."
Zuckerberg said he took on the project to tackle writing code, rather than because he's lazy.
In fact, he broke his arm falling off his bike while training for a triathlon. He apparently struggled to manage clip-in cycling shoes.
Jerry Seinfeld gets all Seinfeldy on Mark Zuckerberg's personal goals and his secret home AI project. Privacy is a concern for Zuckerberg.
It might make you feel like vomiting (a rainbow), but seeing more advertisements in between your snaps on the immensely popular messaging app Snapchat was basically an inevitability. Now, Snapchat's making it official with Monday's announcement of "Snapchat Partners," a venture aimed at expanding advertising opportunities in the app.
The focus for now, according to Adweek, is on Snapchat's auto-advance stories, which let you quickly cycle through the snaps your friends have posted as part of their stories. In the coming weeks, you can expect to start seeing "Snap Ads Between Stories," which are precisely what they sound like. Snapchat told Adweek the goal is to avoid bombarding users with dozens of ads by taking a measured, conservative approach, and by making the quality of the ads a top priority.
Snapchat's popularity is no secret, and its business ambitions shouldn't come as a surprise. Internal figures leaked to TechCrunch estimate yearly revenue as high as $1 billion within the next few years.
The company didn't immediately respond to a request for comment on that goal, or on the Snapchat Partners advertising push.
This article also appears in Spanish. Read: Era inevitable: Snapchat empezará a 'colar' anuncios en las historias
Siri is getting smarter on iOS and making its way to the Mac. Why sit through Apple's two-hour presentation when you can get the information in a lot less time?
Apple's annual developer conference kicked off with announcements on new features for its four platforms, WatchOS, iOS, TVOS, and macOS. However, like every year, hopeful optimists can't help but be disappointed by the omissions on Apple's laundry list of upcoming products.
Here are a few features we wanted to see at WWDC 2016 and didn't get:
We get it, Apple. You want everyone to own an iPhone, but that's just not going to happen. So why not share the iMessage goodness with everyone? Popular messaging apps like WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger and Snapchat all work on both iOS and Android. Apple isn't doing itself any favors by hogging iMessage to iOS.
These days you can use Venmo, Square Cash or even Facebook to send money, so why not Apple Pay? Apple announced that you will be able to pay for things online using Apple Pay, so peer-to-peer payments for paying your friends back for the pizza you shared last night shouldn't be too far off.
HomeKit needs more third-party support.
It's been two years since Apple released HomeKit and it has progressed slower than its competition. Apple has a lot of work to do to make it compatible with third-party connected home products. HomeKit needs to offer users sufficient choice in order to stay competitive, meaning some indication that it's bringing on new device partners, or helping to streamline the way in which its partners bring their products to market.
Multi-user support for iOS has been on the wishlist for a few years now. Anyone who regularly hands their iPhone or iPad (notably MIA from the WWDC 2016 keynote) to their kids to play with knows how handy a multi-user log-in can be. Multi-user support is already available for iPads in the Classroom app, and it's about time everyone else gets it, too.
Apple Music for iOS got a total revamp, however iTunes (which, let's be honest, needs it the most) didn't. Apple seems to have put iTunes on the backburner to focus on its booming streaming music service. I can't blame it, iTunes sucks. But that's all the more reason to show the aging software some TLC -- or finally bid it goodbye.
All the latest coverage from Apple's annual developers conference.
Siri is getting smarter on iOS and making its way to the Mac. Why sit through Apple's two-hour presentation when you can get the information in a lot less time?
Apple's latest Worldwide Developers Conference kicked off with news on all of Apple's operating systems. WatchOS looks like it will bring a lot more productivity since apps will launch much faster than before. Siri for iOS will be opened to third-party developers meaning Siri's about to get a lot smarter. Also the rumors were true, OS X is no more -- say hello to MacOS.
The tech titan is willing to pay billions, but what will Microsoft do with the professional networking site under its wing?
In very surprising news, Microsoft announced it will acquire LinkedIn for $26.2 billion. At first it seems like an unusual pairing. However, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella said he believes LinkedIn will work well with Office 365 as well as Microsoft's advertising business.
Subscribe: CNET Update delivers the biggest tech news of the day, breaking down trends, hot devices, new apps and what's ahead. Subscribe to the podcast via the links below.
iTunes (HD) | iTunes (SD) | iTunes (HQ) | iTunes (MP3)
RSS (HD) | RSS (SD) | RSS (HQ)| RSS (MP3)
Download the audio version of today's Update.
Apple CEO Tim Cook always has a buffet of big numbers to tout. Monday's keynote at the Worldwide Developers Conference was no different.
Cook said there are 2 million apps in the App Store, tallying 130 billion downloads. And, as he emphasized the important role developers play for Apple, he also said that $50 billion has been paid to developers.
One of the platforms Apple focused on during the event was tvOS, launched last year. Eddy Cue, senior vice president of Internet software and services, said the first generation had 80 channels. It now has more than 1,300 channels and 600 native apps, he said.
And since Siri works with tvOS, the digital assistant can search more than 650,000 movies and TV shows on Apple TV.
Apple announces new apps for its TV device and makes searching smarter with Siri upgrade.
Next, Craig Federighi, senior vice president of software engineering, took the stage. After making a joke about taking a vision quest to find product names, he said that after 15 years it was time to update the name of OS X to macOS.
Federighi also said there are 10 billion documents in iCloud Drive, and that number will only get bigger with features like optimized storage, which will automatically move older files to the cloud.
The company introduced music-streaming service Apple Music last year to mixed reviews. Cue, returning to the stage, said the service has 15 million paid subscribers, making it the "fastest music service ever in its first year."
And speaking of users, Cue said Apple News has 60 million monthly users reading News, with its 2,000 publications.
Finally, Cook returned to bring the event back around to the developers. Apple introduced its programming language Swift in 2014. Now, 100,000 apps, including recognizable names like Lyft, have adopted the use of Swift, and it's the No. 1 language on GitHub, a platform that hosts code.
"We think it's the best way to teach people how to code," Cook said, then transitioning to unveil Swift Playground, a free coding education app.
Check out CNET's full coverage of Apple's developers conference.
All the latest coverage from Apple's annual developers conference.
PayPal is leaving Turkey.

PayPal is closing up shop in Turkey.
As of June 6, customers there will no longer be able to send and receive money via a PayPal account, the online payments service said on its Turkish website. PayPal users will be able to log into their accounts but only to transfer money to a Turkish bank.
PayPal blamed the closure on a new policy instituted by Turkey's financial regulator BDDK, which prevents the company from obtaining the necessary license. The new policy would have required PayPal to establish a local IT center in the country, something the company does not consider doable given its global approach to maintaining its IT systems.
"We respect Turkey's desire to have information technology  infrastructure deployed within its borders, however, PayPal utilizes a  global payments platform  that operates across more than 200 markets, rather than maintaining  local payments platforms with dedicated technology infrastructure in any  single country," a PayPal spokesperson said in a statement sent to CNET.
Tech firms run into challenges doing business in certain nations. Some  countries, including Turkey, have strict censorship rules that have led  to the takedown of social media sites Twitter and Facebook. Other  countries require that companies establish a local presence in order to  operate. The companies then face the decision of whether to comply.
"We have no choice but to suspend processing payments as our application for a Turkish payments license has been denied by the local financial regulator, the BDDK," the spokesperson added.
(Via TechCrunch)
The Withings Go, shown here, is one of the company's latest fitness trackers.
That was fast.
Little more than a month after announcing its intention to buy Withings for 170 million euros, Nokia has announced that it's now a done deal -- and that deal was finished far ahead of the third-quarter close that was originally anticipated. The French gadget-maker of all things health-focused, from fitness trackers to smart scales, will become the basis for Nokia's new Digital Health business unit, which is now led by the former Withings CEO, Cédric Hutchings.
For Finland's Nokia, it's the latest move to reassert its brand after selling the bulk of its phone business to Microsoft for $7.2 billion in 2014. (Microsoft has since sold off much of the low-end handset at firesale prices, even as the future of its Lumia phones remains in doubt.) In addition to the Withings buy, Nokia has also begun moving into virtual reality hardware with its pro-level Ozo 360 camera.
We won't have to wait long to see what the Nokia-Withings pairing will provide. The company is already teasing a June 9 event in San Francisco that will double as a showcase for Nokia's new Bay Area office, as well as a platform for some of its new products.
Twitter and other Internet giants are backing new rules to combat hate speech.
Facebook, Twitter, Microsoft and YouTube have signed on to new rules to tackle online hate speech.
The Internet titans agreed on Tuesday to a new code of conduct by the European Union that takes aim at illegal hate speech and terrorist propaganda posted online. Under the new rules, they have committed to reviewing within 24 hours of receipt the majority of notifications about a social media post that may contain hate speech. They've also agreed to remove the post if necessary.
Under the rules, the companies will also communicate with one another, with governments and with law enforcement agencies about keeping up with potential abuse.
"There's no place for hate speech on Facebook," said Monika Bickert, head of global policy management at Facebook. "We urge people to use our reporting tools if they find content that they believe violates our standards so we can investigate. Our teams around the world review these reports around the clock and take swift action."
Karen White, Twitter's head of public policy in Europe, echoed the sentiment. "We remain committed to letting the tweets flow," she said. "However, there is a clear distinction between freedom of expression and conduct that incites violence and hate."
In addition to removing abusive posts, the EU and the big companies will look to balance hate speech by promoting "independent counter-narratives" and supporting educational programs that "encourage critical thinking."
Twitter wants to "leverage the platform's incredible capabilities to empower positive voices, to challenge prejudice and to tackle the deeper root causes of intolerance," White said.
People are increasingly ignoring adverts on their phone, new figures say.
More than one in five people routinely block adverts on their phones, new figures say.
At least 419 million people are stopping ads from appearing on their mobile devices, according to a report by PageFair on the use of mobile ad-blockers. That works out to 22 percent of the world's 1.9bn smartphone users, as of March 2016.
Of those adblocker users, the report says more than 400 million people use mobile browsers that block ads by default. A large number of those are in China, where there are 159 million users of mobile ad-zapping browsers, and India, where there are 122 million people using browsers that ban ads.
The phenomenon is less pronounced in Europe and North America, where there were just 14 million monthly active users of ad-busting mobile browsers. But mobile adverts are still under threat: UK mobile network Three is the first European carrier to block ads at a network level.
The reports author PageFair markets tools to combat ad-blockers. As such, it's in the company's interest to highlight the extent of the threat to publishers like this website you're reading right now. As ad-blockers threaten advertising revenue, the publishing industry is increasingly considering paywalls and subscriptions. Hey, don't blame us, we've got to keep the lights on somehow.
Browsers with ad-blocking options include Opera and Brave.
A new Web browser aims to protect your privacy from ads that track you, but it wants to make money with its own ads. Also, learn how Apple's iOS update patches a security bug.
Striking workers of Verizon telecommunications giant, picket in front of a Verizon office in Washington, DC, on April 14, 2016.
A massive strike conducted by 36,000 unionised Verizon workers that has been ongoing since April should come to an end this week, with workers due to return June 1, the Associated Press has revealed.  The company announced on May 27 that it had reached a deal, but the details were not revealed until today.
To end the strike, Verizon promised workers represented by the Communications Workers of America and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers unions 1,300 new call centre jobs, 11 percent raises over four years, and health care plan changes to save Verizon money. Union members will vote on this deal after returning to work.
The strike, which took place over Verizon's efforts to shrink its flagging wireline business, saw service disruptions across the company's landline, internet and television divisions, and slower responses to customer issues. Previously, Verizon, which employs 177,000 workers, had argued that it was shifting its resources to wireless services.
For four years, Greg Call helped lead US Marines in war-torn Afghanistan. Now he's helping lead veterans into postmilitary professions.
The vet-turned-tech-entrepreneur oversees a program at LinkedIn designed to raise the profiles of veterans using the social network for business professionals. A typical day includes analyzing veteran member data and taking meetings with federal officials or veterans groups to increase awareness of LinkedIn's programs.
Marine Corps vet Greg Call oversees the veterans program at LinkedIn. The onetime tech entrepreneur's new mission: helping lead fellow vets into postmilitary professions including those in the tech industry.
He frequently works with Katherine Webster, who runs Vets in Tech (VIT). The San Francisco-based nonprofit helps vets get jobs at top-tier tech companies.
Call, Webster and RallyPoint, a professional social network for duty men and women in the military created by two veterans at Harvard Business School, are part of a broader effort to help American companies consider employing vets. Among common misperceptions: vets suffer from posttraumatic stress disorder, can work only in military-related fields and take orders but don't show initiative.
But there are military men and women who have experience in tech, including working with high-tech intelligence systems, satellites, robotics, drones and cyberdefense, often in stressful environments that their civilian counterparts don't have to deal with.
"They are able to thrive in organizational settings," Call said, adding that tech training in the military is becoming standard. Veterans' attention to detail, leadership and teamwork makes them appealing to tech companies, he said.
Between 2007 and 2011, an estimated 200,000 veterans transitioned each year from the military to civilian life due to retirement or completing their tour of duty, according to the Department of Defense. Also, an estimated 1.5 million veterans, many who have spent time in either Iraq or Afghanistan, will be looking for jobs within the next five years, according to the US Department of Labor. About a quarter of them will land in the tech industry, Webster estimates.
Many former soldiers, airmen, sailors and marines look for jobs, like law enforcement, that take advantage of their military training. But the transition isn't always easy. A  2014 Pew Research Center survey reported that 44 percent of post-September 11 vets, many of whom saw combat, said they had problems readjusting to civilian life, compared with 25 percent of pre-9/11 vets, many of whom served in peacetime.
Similar findings prompted Webster, a former senior manager at Sun Microsystems and the daughter of a soldier who served in the Korean War, to seek changes.
In 2012, she brainstormed with Craig Newmark, founder of the popular Craigslist website. They ended up hosting a  hackathon in Silicon Valley for veterans because they wanted to take an approach different than a "lame" job fair, Webster said. The hackathon brought in 40 vets.
Webster soon created Vets in Tech, which attracted about 200 vets when it launched in 2012. The nonprofit  trains veterans and connects them with Silicon Valley stalwarts, including Salesforce, Palo Alto Networks and  Facebook.
Vets in Tech co-founder Katherine Webster, left, poses with VIT member Riki Tate during the Joining Forces fifth anniversary gathering at the White House earlier this month. A former US Army combat medic who served in Iraq, Tate now works at AppBuddy, a subsidiary of cloud-computing giant Salesforce.
VIT has now expanded to 10 cities nationwide, including New York, Los Angeles and Washington, DC.
"Veterans know how to apply all of the technical traits they learned on the battlefield," Webster said. "They're also not afraid of taking risks."
Ben Vickery, who attended a Vets in Tech session last week in San Francisco, agrees.
The former Marine Corps sergeant served as a linguist in Afghanistan and now works on financial automation at Google. He has some ideas he might want to apply to the "gig economy" -- think companies like Lyft and Uber -- and was looking for guidance and inspiration from vets-turned-entrepreneurs.
"I've heard so many horror stories about people who have a good idea but ruin it by not understanding when to incorporate, when to hire and when to get financing," he said.
Encouraging vets to start their own business is a priority for VIT, says Mike McNerney, an Air Force veteran who helped found  Efflux Systems, a cybersecurity firm that's mostly staffed by vets.
"You must have that drive and attitude that you will not fail," said McNerney, a lawyer who also was a cybersecurity policy adviser for US defense secretaries Robert Gates and Leon Panetta. "Veterans have that desire."
Earlier this month, VIT was praised at the fifth anniversary of Joining Forces, an initiative created by First Lady Michelle Obama and Jill Biden, wife of Vice President Joe Biden, that helps vets and their spouses get jobs.
VIT was recognized as one of more than 40 tech, aerospace and telecommunications organizations committed to training or hiring more than 110,000 vets and their spouses over the next five years. Amazon plans to hire 25,000 during that time.
The strategy to hire more vets in tech and other industries is apparently working, according to a survey of more than 2.1 million veteran and military members on LinkedIn, which will be released Tuesday.
Highlights include the fact that the rate of unemployed veterans is at 3.9 percent, 1 percentage point less than the nation's overall unemployment rate and that IT is the number one industry for vets. Networking is key: Vets have 26 percent more connections than nonveterans on LinkedIn.
Also, more than 180,000 professionals who are veterans have identified themselves either as an executive, president, vice president, owner or partner of a business, LinkedIn's survey said.
Call believes this is just the beginning of more veterans joining the ranks of the employed.
"We're seeing a drastic change," he said. "Our goal is to drive that unemployment rate for veterans down to zero."
CNET's Andrew Morse contributed to this report.
If Apple wants to bolster its presence in India, it will have to find ways other than selling old iPhones.
At a press conference in New Delhi on Monday, India's commerce and industry minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that the government has rejected Apple's proposal to sell refurbished iPhones in the country, reports LiveMint.
"We are not in favour of any company selling used phones in the [country], however certified they may be," she said.
This is a big blow to Apple, as selling refurbished devices was its biggest bet to attract Indian customers. The vast majority of smartphones sold in the world's second most populous nation have a price tag under $150. A typical new-generation iPhone in India sets a user back by around $700.
Selling refurbished iPhones would have allowed Apple to offer its iconic smartphone at a dramatically lower price point without sacrificing its premium branding.
Fortunately for Apple, there is some good news when it comes to opening its own stores in India, its other big strategy in the country. The finance ministry recently told Apple that if it wished to open stores in the country, it would have to sell at least 30 percent locally-sourced goods. Sitharaman noted that she was in talks with the finance ministry to reconsider offering Apple a waiver from these local sourcing rules.
The announcement comes after Cook's maiden visit to India as Apple CEO. During his four-day stay in the country, Cook met with several telecom heads, as well as India Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He also announced an iOS design and development centre in Benguluru and a Maps development centre in Hyderabad.
Tesla's massive, 130-acre battery-making Gigafactory isn't due to start production on lithium ion cells until 2017, but a grand opening is due to be held on July 29, a Fortune report states. The date was revealed in email sent to customers, who won invitations to the customer-focused event by referring customers via Tesla's referral program.
Although only 14 percent complete as of early May, according to a Bloomberg report, the factory is already producing Tesla's Powerpacks and Powerwalls. By the time it is fully up and running in 2020, the factory will be producing, Tesla materials state, more lithium ion batteries annually than the rest of the world produced in 2013 combined. This will reduce the cost of production by a projected 30 percent and, in theory at least, in turn reduce the consumer cost of Tesla cars.
The Model 3 Tesla, for example, is being projected to come in at $35,000 compared to the $71,000 Model S, a price point partially enabled by the savings the Gigafactory will bring.
Tesla did not immediately reply to request for comment.
Our annual pilgrimage to Taipei, Taiwan kicks off this week as we come to discover what Asia's leading computer hardware show has to offer.
Every year we find out what big new toys will be announced, from the likes of Asus, Dell, Intel, Acer, Gigabyte and more. We always know we'll see a swathe of computers, mobiles, PC accessories and clever network devices. But then it's the surprises that appear out of nowhere that make things really fun.
Computex has always acted not so much as a trendsetter but as a lightning rod for developing trends. What we see here in Taipei can point to whether or not hardware companies are really seeing the potential in new ideas and whether they are testing the limits of what is possible around new ideas across the tech industry.
While many products fail to hit the market, in recent years we have seen big efforts in everything from Android set-top boxes to wearables to e-ink displays and beyond. What's really enjoyable is the genuine openness here. The tech world's biggest trade show CES is so polished, little is revealed that isn't already going to hit store shelves. Here at Computex we see spaghetti being thrown at the wall. It's a little messy, but it's fun. It's exciting to explore the halls and uncover the cleverness amongst the chaos.
The hottest mess this year? Virtual reality.
Taiwan is home turf for HTC, yet the company has almost never participated in Computex. This year HTC is on the floor plan -- its HTC Vive VR system is regarded as the best VR experience around, so any new updates to this platform will have people queueing for hours.
It's important to note that Intel is typically a spotlight company at Computex. In recent years it announced Thunderbolt aligning with USB-C, its RealSense technology efforts and its push to move toward wireless charging. But now after a tough year with falling sales and job losses, and no new major chipset announcements expected after accepting Moore's Law is hitting its limits, we see less Intel events on the Computex agenda than in years past and no footprint on the show floor.
In its place, we're seeing Nvidia claiming hotel ballrooms formerly used by Intel as a week long area to show off its latest 'Pascal' graphics technologies with a focus on VR, AI and self-driving cars. A sign of the shift in dominance from the CPU to the GPU?
Stay tuned for all the announcements as they happen. We'll be bringing you all the big news throughout Computex 2016 from our team on the ground in Taipei, Taiwan.
Check out the rest of CNET's Computex 2016 coverage here.
All the news from Computex 2017, the largest IT tradeshow in Asia.
You're driving through town with your mind half on work, half on the traffic around you. You come to the two-way intersection you've crossed a thousand times before, stop, look around and start to turn left.
And then your car sounds a warning bell, loudly and insistently. It's telling you, "WAIT -- the pickup truck barreling straight at you can't stop in time."
Got your attention, no?
It works because your car and that pickup are exchanging their location, speed, acceleration, direction and steering faster than we can blink. Many consider this conversation -- called vehicle-to-vehicle, or V2V -- the most important lifesaving technology to hit the auto industry in the past 10 years.
If V2V did nothing more than warn you not to turn left or enter an intersection, it could prevent about half a million crashes and save around 1,100 lives a year, according to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
But automakers, universities and government organizations are exploring V2V for more than just intersection safety. They're also developing the technology to see around blind spots, warn when a pickup five cars ahead has suddenly braked, and tell you, "Whoa, don't pass that horse trailer, because there's oncoming traffic you can't see." Because of benefits like these, the US Department of Transportation is pushing automakers to adopt V2V within the next few years.
"Connected, automated vehicles...have the potential to revolutionize road safety and save thousands of lives," Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx said in a statement last year. "The department wants to speed the nation toward an era when vehicle safety isn't just about surviving crashes; it's about avoiding them."
No, your car won't actually emit yellow beams and blue rings. But you get the idea.
In other words, there's an excellent chance that five years from now, V2V will be standard in every new car people buy.
Without that government mandate, automakers can decide when, or even if, to add the technology. And that's an issue because the promise of V2V depends on nearly universal adoption.
"If I've got a talking car and there's no one else to talk to, that would be a problem," explains Gordon Trowbridge, NHTSA's communications director.
So far, General Motors is the only automaker to announce production plans for the US market, saying V2V will be on its 2017 Cadillac CTS luxury sedan. Toyota last year added the technology to three models sold in Japan.
Further complicating V2V's critical mass: We don't seem to be in any hurry to buy that new car or truck. The average age of cars driven on US roads is now a record 11.5 years. And that means it will take almost 30 years for 95 percent of the nation's cars and trucks to talk to each other, says Russ Rader, senior vice president of the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety.
Last July, car security experts Charlie Miller and Chris Valasek hacked into a Jeep Cherokee and drove it into a ditch. A month later, Chrysler recalled 1.4 million Jeeps.
It shows what can go wrong with the connected-car and wireless infotainment systems that automakers already offer in their high-end models. But that vulnerability is especially worrisome for a technology like V2V, which aims to touch nearly every vehicle on the road, says Jeff Williams, co-founder of Contrast Security. "You're connecting your car to any random person out there," Williams says. "It's likely to save tons of lives, but people might misuse the system."
For its part, the NHTSA claims its V2V design already meets "a very high level of security" and says the agency is "actively engaged with security experts" to make the system safe, secure and private.
In the meantime, automakers like Ford, GM and Honda are working on V2V because it's a good idea -- not just the law.
"The root cause of people dying in car crashes is drivers. It's not the vehicle, and it's not the environment," says Mike Shulman, Ford's V2V technical leader. "Like polio vaccines, if we have technology that could prevent thousands of deaths each year, why not use it?" 
If your car talks to other vehicles on the road, shouldn't it talk to the city, too?
That's the idea behind vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2I) technology, an important complement to V2V. With V2I, your car can have fruitful chats with traffic signals, road signs, streetlights, and sensors embedded in pedestrian walkways.
Imagine, for example, that your car is having a nice conversation with the string of traffic lights that dot your city's major artery. Using V2I, those traffic signals could advise you, through the car's dashboard, that driving 31 miles per hour would let you sail through every green light.
For more CNET Magazine stories, click here.
Other situations include dashboard alerts for road construction, lane shifts and traffic advisories. And advocates for the blind envision beacons attached to light poles that would help the vision-impaired cross busy streets.
The downside depends on how states and cities use the data they glean from your driving habits. It would be fairly easy -- and lucrative, for example -- for them to automatically issue traffic tickets every time you exceed the speed limit.
And then there's the issue of timing. Unlike V2V, which the federal government can mandate for new vehicles, the Department of Transportation can only offer city and state governments incentives, guidance and support to install the intelligent infrastructure.
The DOT is currently drafting detailed guidelines to make sure V2I works the same everywhere, but it will be up to cities and states to implement it. And that means it's anyone's guess when your car and Mr. Traffic Light can have their chat.
Paula Vasan (@paulavasan) is a multimedia reporter writing about business and technology. She lives in New York. CNET's Wayne Cunningham contributed to this report.
This story appears in the spring 2016 edition of CNET Magazine.
Technology makes our lives easier, touching everything we do at work, at home and even in our cars. CNET Magazine looks at tech from every angle: from its impact on society, to the people and companies who think up the next big thing, and the gadgets and services that really matter. We invite you to explore, share and -- most of all -- enjoy the stories brought to you by the reporters and photojournalists of the world's biggest tech news site.

Here's just a sampling of what you'll find in our quarterly magazine.  To get all the stories, head to cnet.com/magazine to subscribe.
Jawbone has put its Jambox speaker business up for sale, according to a report Friday from Fortune magazine, which cites "multiple sources." The company wants to focus "exclusively on its health and wearables business," the magazine reported.
Later on Friday, Tech Insider -- also quoting unnamed sources -- reported that Jawbone had halted production of its Up fitness trackers and sold the remaining inventory at a discount to a reseller.
Tech Insider late Tuesday modified its description, saying the company "has slowed production" of the devices.
Jawbone had disputed Tech Insider's earlier characterization.
"The company did not halt production at any point," a company spokesman said in an interview Tuesday.
Jawbone, which has been struggling to compete against companies like Apple and Fitbit, laid off 15 percent of its global workforce last November. It has also been involved in a series of lawsuits against Fitbit, alleging that its rival stole trade secrets by poaching employees. In October, a San Francisco judge ordered five Fitbit employees to return confidential information they took before leaving Jawbone.
Earlier Tuesday, a Jawbone spokeswoman said in a statement the company has no intention of phasing out the Up line. "Each and every employee at Jawbone is currently focused on the design, development, marketing and production of either our current, or our next generation, Up wearables product line," she wrote.
Update, May 31 at 2:55 p.m. PT:  Adds new company statement.
Update, May 31 at 4:28 p.m. PT to show Tech Insider's changed description of Up production.
Verizon has made peace with its employees.
The New York telecommunications giant has agreed in principle to a four-year contract with employees represented by the Communications Workers of America and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers unions, according to the US Labor Department in a statement issued Friday. The dispute, which prompted 36,000 union workers to go on strike April 14, spurred the Labor Department to step in to help find a resolution.
The return of the workers, which is expected early next week, removes a headache for Verizon and its landline, Internet and television customers in the mid-Atlantic and Northeast territory. The strike led to service disruptions and slower response to outages and installation needs.
Verizon had pushed to consolidate call centers, cap pension benefits and cut health care for employees in the landline business, angering workers. The unions say Verizon is also trying to ramp up its reliance on cheaper outside contractors to finish certain jobs.
The company, which employs a total of 177,000 workers, argues its landline business no longer sees growth and said it is shifting its resources behind the hotter wireless business.
"Nostalgia for the rotary-phone era won't save American jobs, any more than ignoring the global forces reshaping the auto industry saved the Detroit automakers," CEO Lowell McAdam said in a LinkedIn post right before the strike began.
Verizon confirmed the agreement, but only pointed to the Labor Department statement.
"The agreement in principle at Verizon is a victory for working families across the country and an affirmation of the power of working people," said CWA President Chris Shelton in a statement.
While Verizon has been negotiating a new contract with the two unions since June, it also spent months preparing for a possible strike. The company trained thousands of nonunion workers to take over wireline jobs during the strike.
Verizon last dealt with a strike in 2011, when 45,000 workers walked off the job.
A demo of Itseez advanced driver assistance software.
Focused on evolving beyond a PC company,  Intel on Thursday announced it's acquiring Itseez, a computer vision  firm with an expertise in embedded and specialized hardware.
"This  acquisition furthers Intel's efforts to win in IoT (Internet of Things) market segments like  automotive and video, where the ability to electronically perceive and  understand images paves the way for innovation and opportunity," Doug  Davis, senior vice president and general manager of Intel's IoT group,  wrote in a blog post.
The terms of the deal were not disclosed.
Intel has already started building up its portfolio for the automotive market, Davis noted, adding capabilities like functional safety and over-the-air software management.  The appeal of the market is clear, he said, given that self-driving  vehicles could deliver $507 billion in annual productivity gains,  according to Morgan Stanley estimates.
So  far, automakers and technology companies have turned to just a handful  of firms for the new technology that powers self-driving cars, such as  computer vision. For instance, the company Mobileye, which produces  real-time, vision-based collision avoidance camera systems, has  partnered with several major automotive companies  including Volkswagen, BMW and GM. Meanwhile, other chipmakers like  Nvidia are working on technology to interpret data from cameras on cars.
Aside  from the automotive market, Davis said Intel's acquisition of Itseez  would open up computer vision applications in areas like digital  security and surveillance, as well as industrial inspection. He noted  that Itseez is a "key contributor" to computer vision standards  initiatives, such as OpenCV and OpenVX.
"Together, we'll step up our contribution to these standards bodies --  defining a technology bridge that helps the industry move more quickly  to OpenVX-based products," he said.
This story was first published as "Intel acquires computer vision firm Itseez"on ZDNet.
Justin Yu returns to help us unpack the new Xbox One rumors, break down the Peter Thiel/Gawker situation and give us some much-needed social advice on when to go in for the hug or kiss on the cheek.

Download today's podcast
Subscribe to our wonderful program:
iTunes (MP3) | RSS (MP3)
Russ's new podcast: The West Wing History Class

Follow everyone on Twitter!


File any hateful or insightful comments at our show thread over at our subreddit:  	 	reddit.com/r/the404.

Is the world ready for a smart home that can watch you?
The success of Amazon's Echo smart speaker has tech companies scrambling to come up with something similar. Google's answer, the Google Home, is coming out later this year. Sources tell CNET that Apple is also exploring its own version of the Echo -- and it could come with a face-tracking camera. Will consumers cringe with privacy concerns, as we've seen in previous smart products?
Are consumers ready for an all-seeing camera in a smart home hub? Sources say Apple may put a camera in a product that could rival Amazon's Echo smart speaker. But it won't be easy to shake the creepy feeling.
Subscribe: CNET Update delivers the biggest tech news of the day, breaking down trends, hot devices, new apps and what's ahead. Subscribe to the podcast via the links below.

Ads on Facebook will now appear on other apps and websites for anyone who has ever visited Facebook's site. That's right. Even if you're not a Facebook user, you'll probably be viewing ads that appear on Facebook.
Facebook currently has over 1.6 billion users, but by expanding its "Audience Network," the company's advertisers will touch a much wider audience than that.
This move will improve ads for users, according to the company. People with Facebook accounts will be able to opt out of interest-based ads, and those without accounts will be able to learn about and disable ads. But it also begs questions of privacy, considering that personalized advertising relies on recording users' cookies and other information-gathering techniques.
In response to these questions, a Facebook representative said, "It's important to note what Facebook is introducing is consistent with [what] hundreds of other companies have been doing around the world."
On Wednesday, US president Barack Obama wrapped up a three day visit to Vietnam, where he gave speeches and met with officials. On Thursday, two activist organisations told Reuters that the Vietnamese government had blocked citizens from using Facebook during the president's say.
The groups, Access Now and Viet Tan, said that it was a move to hinder any potential rallies or protests against the  government.
"People were using Facebook to call for protests. They did not want people to take to the streets," Angelina Huynh, advocacy director for Viet Tan, told the publication.
Vietnam's government is known to block the social network during times of political unrest. Most recently, Facebook was blocked around the middle of the month following public outrage at an environmental disaster.
Reddit and Imgur may have fit together like peanut butter and jelly, but Reddit's product team announced earlier this week that the online community would be rolling out its own image hosting service, leaving its old informal partner somewhat in the lurch.
Reddit's own service will allow image uploads of up to 20MB in size or gifs of up to 100MB to be submitted directly when posting to Reddit. It also means less jumping around between images and discussion threads for users, and better integration with Reddit's apps. In comparison, Imgur allows a similar maximum image size and gifs of up to 200MB.
It seems like the new tool first appeared on Reddit's mobile apps. Phase one of the staggered rollout will see the tool available on 16 of Reddit's default subreddits (themed discussion boards) before rolling out to another 50 next week.
Reddit's new platform doesn't preclude the use of Imgur (or other image hosting sites), but a locally hosted platform could certainly spell more traffic for the site. Another major concern is the ability to police the content that gets posted to the site. As an admin said in the announcement thread, images posted through Reddit's upload tool must comply with the site's content guidelines.
Twitter execs spread their wings.
Two top Twitter executives are leaving the nest, according to reports, moves that come just a day after CEO Jack Dorsey asked investors to be patient with the microblogging company's plans to fix its business.
Jana Messerschmidt, who runs the social-media company's business development, and Nathan Hubbard, who runs media and commerce, are planning to leave Twitter, according to Recode and The Wall Street Journal.
Ali Jafari, who oversees revenue development, will take over the roles, according to the reports.
Twitter didn't respond to a request for comment.
News of the departures follows Wednesday's shareholder meeting at which Dorsey, a Twitter co-founder, said it would take time for the company to fix itself.
Jack Dorsey tells annual shareholders meeting #Twitter will take time to fix.
At the meeting, shareholders also approved Dorsey's plan to give roughly a third of his Twitter stock to employees, part of an effort to retain them.
Apparently it didn't impress everyone.
Prepare to be afraid.
America's nuclear forces, including its intercontinental ballistic missiles, nuclear bombers and tanker support aircraft are coordinated using a 1970s era IBM Series/1 mainframe computer that uses 8-inch floppy drives, according to a new report issued by the Government Accountability Office.
The report, entitled "Federal Agencies Need to Address Aging Legacy Systems" (PDF), looks at the government's technology infrastructure and its spending to maintain hardware and software that, in some cases, is at least 50 years old. The report also calls out the Department of the Treasury, which "uses assembly language code -- a computer language initially used in the 1950s and typically tied to the hardware for which it was developed."
And the Veteran Affairs' benefits and delivery network uses a 51-year-old mainframe system, written in Cobol, to make sure veterans receive their benefits.
"Federal legacy IT investments are becoming increasingly obsolete: many use outdated software languages and hardware parts that are unsupported," the report says.
On the plus side, several of the agencies singled out in the report say they do plan to begin modernizing the systems.
Netflix and Univision to coproduce series based on Joaquín 'El Chapo' Guzmán.
Andrés Granados, a lawyer for Joaquín "El Chapo" Guzmán said Wednesday that he will sue Netflix and Univision if they air a new series on the imprisoned Mexican drug lord's life without paying him.
Granados said that the two networks have to pay for the right to use Guzman's name and nickname (El Chapo, which loosely translates as "shorty".) "If they air this, they are immediately going to be sued," Granados told the The Associated Press. "They, by necessity, need the authorization of Mr. Guzman, because he is not dead."
However, in a nod to El Chapo's disposition to cooperate, Granados also said that at the right price, his client "could supply more information to make it a better project for them."

Univision and Netflix earlier this month announced plans to produce an original drama about El Chapo, with plans to air in 2017.  Little details have surfaced about the upcoming drama, but this week Univision released its first trailer (below), which features a series of scenes representing different eras and aspects of Mexico -- tainted in rivers of blood.
A Univision spokesperson declined to comment. Netflix didn't immediately responded to CNET's request for comment.
Apple has existing deals with Time Warner-owned HBO.
Apple reportedly considered buying major media company Time Warner last year in a bid to enhance its own media offering.
Eddy Cue, an Apple senior vice president, broached the idea with Time Warner's head of corporate strategy, according to the Financial Times, which cited three people briefed on the matter in a report on Thursday.
Time Warner, which owns HBO, CNN and Warner Brothers, was meeting with Apple in order to discuss the inclusion of the media company's TV content in a future Apple video streaming service. Discussions never involved Apple chief executive Tim Cook and reportedly never proceeded beyond the preliminary suggestion.
Apple has been increasingly pushing into media provision over the last year, with the launch of its streaming service Apple Music and curated news.
Apple and Time Warner did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
China knows that simply sending in more buses to its busier cities isn't going to help ease congestion. But put those buses on stilts? Now you're talking.
A Beijing company has shown off an interesting concept for a long, "straddling bus" that's raised up on rails either side of the road. It can glide over the traffic jams of the city at speeds of up to 60km/h, with cars being able to freely drive underneath it when stationary, the Guardian reports.
The buses are capable of carrying up to 1,400 passengers and will cost 20 percent of an underground transport system.
A prototype is reportedly being rolled out glided out in the coastal city of Qinhuangdao in the summer.
Those terms and conditions that apps and websites often make you agree to -- how many times have you actually read through them? We're guessing the answer is somewhere between zero and one.
The Norwegian Consumer Council live streamed Norwegians reading out the terms and conditions of different apps on its website to draw attention to the preposterous situation.
According to the Council, the average Norwegian has 33 apps. So it selected 33 popular apps, such as Facebook, Netflix and Skype, and timed how long it took to read through the terms and conditions for each of them.
It ended up taking 31 hours and 49 minutes in total.
"We hope this can help put the spotlight on a failing contract regime. Few, if anyone, have the time and opportunity to familiarise themselves with what they actually click 'OK' to" said Finn Myrstad, the Council's Head of Digital Services.
The US, Australia and much of Europe have already swiped right on Tinder, but the matchmaker is also booming in India, one of the world's most populous markets.
Tinder's Indian user count grew a staggering 400 percent in 2015. Since September last year, the amount of daily swipes has jumped from 7.5 million to 14 million. In a country with a conservative dating culture and high rates of violence against women, an app associated with casual hook ups might not seem like an obvious go-to.
But Tinder is chalking up its success to it giving women more control over romantic interactions. Taru Kapoor, head of Tinder India, boasts that the app allows women to seek connections "without fear of unsolicited attention or judgment."
But how can it do even that, given most of the couples in the country were put together by their parents?
Arranged marriages are still the most popular way of meeting a life partner, even among India's younger population.
Tinder's popularity may be on the rise, but arranged marriages aren't exactly going out of fashion in India. As of 2013, 75 percent of 18 to 35-year-olds in the country said they wanted an arranged marriage, according to the Taj Wedding Barometer.
This doesn't necessarily shrink Tinder's potential market though, with male user Reem Belsare (who requested his name be changed) from Bengaluru, a relatively progressive part of the country, explaining that Indians have some romantic wiggle room earlier in their adult life.
"India is still conservative when it comes to courtships," he said. "The unspoken rule is that you party while you can, but end up marrying someone of your family's choice."
Tinder user Preeti Sharma (who also requested her name be changed) explains, "the conservative culture takes a back seat when it comes to dating and flings. It is only when you have to take a girl home for marriage all these rules apply."
It's this brief gap in a person's life, where they're old enough to date but young enough to be single, that offers Tinder its market. And for its part, the company is leaning into India's family-oriented courtship process, with Tinder's first video advertisement for the country showing a mother help her daughter prepare for a Tinder date.
But just like technology, the process of arranged marriage is evolving with the times. Dr. Henrike Donner, the University of London, Goldsmith's senior lecturer in anthropology, explains that "expectations about how [arranged marriage] comes about, consent and conjugality have changed."
She says that "love and affection" are the basis of marriage among India's middle-class city dwellers, and that these values "are increasingly integrated in ideas about either love or arranged marriages."
Sharma puts it in practical terms, saying that her grandparents never met each other until the day of their marriage, while her parents were able to view a profile of their prospective partner and give a yea or nay based on it before the big day.
Today, she says that an "arranged marriage" can simply mean parents having the final say. She's not made to marry anyone, but her parents need to approve her partner.
"This is the kind of marriage I approve of," she says. "It feels safer. My parents...are my best friends. Their confidence and approval is reassuring."
So, while family-arranged marriages are still largely the norm, there's room for Tinder to play a part in the process rather than oppose it completely.
Tinder's popularity in India is partially due to the influence of western culture, with shows like "How I Met Your Mother" sensationalising the casual dating scene, one user says.
Online dating is far from new in India, but Tinder has become popular for two reasons: It's connected to Facebook and it's from the west.
The Facebook part is easy to understand. It helps women, in a country where crimes committed against them are reported every two minutes, to get basic information about a person. Education, common interests and common friends are need-to-knows before a meeting takes place.
"There are a lot of creepy men and women out there on Tinder or for that matter anywhere on Earth. I think one has to be prudent while swiping right," Sharma says. "I like Tinder because it uses Facebook...it's easier to build trust when we have a friend in common."
Another Tinder user, student Annabel Alley, said that while she feels the app "isn't very safe," the threat of violence varies greatly from place to place. She pointed to several regions in which she wouldn't dare to use Tinder, but was comfortable doing so in places like Mumbai and Kolkata.
Donner refutes the idea that Tinder is more dangerous than any other form of interaction, however. "Every dating culture bears the threat of violence," she says frankly. "Whether contact is made via the Internet or the old-fashioned means of a letter."
The second factor, it being American, is a bit more peculiar. Our anonymous swiper from Bengaluru explains, "We initially had shows like 'Friends', 'Two & A Half Men' and 'How I Met Your Mother' which glorified the whole dating scene, not to mention countless movies which did the same."
As a result, he says, "there is a whole generation which grew up [watching these] shows...and there are an increasing number of people with smartphones and disposable income who are willing to try out new experiences."
Speaking more bluntly, Tinder user Ajas Mohamed claims "most of us are wannabe Westerners but deep inside we don't know how to escape our cultural upbringing that made us believe attraction towards the opposite sex is something to be ashamed of."
Tinder, being a big name brand from the US, gives those that are west-obsessed in the country a chance to party like the westerners do.
For all the talk about Tinder's growing user base, there's still a question as to whether or not it's effective at connecting people.
And though the company boasts about its popularity among women, many peoples' experiences say that female engagement still isn't quite high enough.
"It's overpopulated by guys here," says swiper Archit Garg. "Girls don't sign up that much or the kind I have seen on it are not really interested in dating, it's more of a 'bored in college so let me swipe a little.' Most of my friends who have tried didn't really find it helpful, again because of the low number of girls on the app."
And while there aren't enough girls for the guys, Sharma says there aren't enough genuine guys for the girls.
"Sixty percent of the men whom I had swiped right were married and in a committed relationship," she claimed, estimating that only around 20 percent of the men on the app were single and looking for a partner. And many of these, she says, "were inhibited by various fears [such as] their parents not approving due to [differences in] caste or religion."
Donner was dubious on Tinder's ability to make a sweeping change on the country's dating culture, pointing out that "merely downloading the app does not indicate a willingness to hook up, and simply uploading one's photo does not in any way indicate sexual availability.
"In most contexts, social control by family, neighbours, friends and the public is exercised even where someone has downloaded Tinder," she says.
Tinder's Kapoor thinks otherwise.
"India has one of the largest youth populations in the world who are now defining a lot of trends globally. They are contributing to the evolution of the way people meet in India.
"It's the user that defines their desired outcome," she says. "Tinder is what you make of it."
Peter Thiel back in 2014.
In a fight, it's not just about how slick your moves are or how quickly you get up from the canvas. It's also about who you've got in your corner.
Gawker founder Nick Denton had suspected that Peter Thiel, co-founder of PayPal and an early investor in Facebook, was backing the defamation case that Terry Bollea -- better known as Hulk Hogan -- brought against the online publication.
It turns out he was right. On Wednesday, Thiel revealed to The New York Times that he had aligned himself with the pro wrestling icon.
"I saw Gawker pioneer a unique and incredibly damaging way of getting attention by bullying people even when there was no connection with the public interest," he told the publication. "I thought it was worth fighting back."
Thiel reportedly paid roughly $10 million to back Hogan, who won more than $115 million  in a Florida jury trial in March. Hogan claimed that Gawker violated his  privacy in 2012 when it published a sex tape involving him and the  now-estranged wife of a friend.
The heavyweight fight seems to have left a mark on Gawker. Faced with significant legal expenses of its own, the media company said Thursday that it has hired an investment banker to review its options. That kind of maneuver often signals a potential sale, but Gawker played down the possibility.
"Everyone take a breath," Gawker said in a statement. "We've had bankers engaged for quite some time given the need for contingency planning around Facebook board member Peter Thiel's revenge campaign."
In 2007, Gawker had outed Thiel, who is homosexual, before he was open about his sexuality, with an article titled "Peter Thiel is totally gay, people."
The billionaire entrepreneur "never forgives," said one Silicon Valley venture capitalist, who didn't want to be identified.
Thiel carries a great deal of heft in Silicon  Valley. Besides being in at the start of PayPal and Facebook and his continued connection to the social network, he is active as an investor, leading a number of venture capital firms.
Update 10:45 a.m. PT:  Added background and new information on Gawker's hiring of an investment banker.
Richard Burr, chairman of the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, which just OKed a bill that would let the FBI obtain email records more easily.
Better watch what you put in email.
The Senate Intelligence Committee on Tuesday approved a bill that would make it easier for the government to read what you're writing online.
The 2017 Intelligence Authorization Act, if enacted into law, would let the FBI obtain email records without a court order. All the agency would need is a National Security Letter, which lets the FBI get information from companies about their customers without alerting the person being investigated. Currently, the FBI can access phone records that way, but not emails.
The bill is the latest move by the federal government to shore up its powers when it comes to surveilling citizens. The government has been battling Apple and other tech companies for more access to data stored on devices. Law enforcement argues it can't fight crimes unless it has access to information on mobile gadgets. Technology companies and rights groups argue that features like strong encryption, which scrambles data so it can be read only by the intended recipient, are needed to keep people safe and protect privacy.
Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) said Tuesday in a joint statement that the 2017 Intelligence Authorization Act makes it easier for the government to keep Americans safe.
"The threat of terrorism remains high, so it's vital that we provide intelligence agencies with all the resources they need to prevent attacks both at home and abroad," Feinstein said.
But Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), the lone dissenting voice on the 15-member Senate committee, vowed to work on reversing the "dangerous provisions."
"This bill takes a hatchet to important protections for Americans' liberty," he said in a statement. "This bill would mean more government surveillance of Americans, less due process and less independent oversight of US intelligence agencies. Worse, neither the intelligence agencies, nor the bill's sponsors have shown any evidence that these changes would do anything to make Americans more secure."
Now that the bill has passed in the Intelligence Committee, it next will be considered by the full Senate.
Online shopping is no fun if you're getting ripped off.
Shopaholics of Europe rejoice! Or réjouir! Or sich freuen!
The European Commision proposed on Wednesday a rule that would prevent online retailers from blocking customers from online border jumping to take advantage of price disparities between countries.
The Commission wants to outlaw a practice known as "geoblocking," which companies use to limit access to their websites based on customer location. By blocking some customers, companies can charge more for the same items in different countries.
Prices on online shopping sites can vary significantly by country in Europe. The Commission's proposal would attempt to level the playing field and make online shopping more transparent, allowing shoppers to shell out safe in the knowledge they are not being ripped off due to their location.
The proposed rules might also benefit online shopping sites by reassuring them they are meeting the standards set out in EU law. Currently, it's unclear if similar laws promoting fair-pricing practices that affect car rentals, amusement parks and other services apply to e-commerce companies. A new set of rules would provide legal clarity.
"The geoblocking initiative strikes the right balance between consumers' interest to be able to shop online without borders and providing businesses with sufficient legal certainty," Günther H. Oettinger, commissioner for the digital economy and society, said in a statement. "I am confident that our approach, taking due account of specificities of certain sectors, will give the right boost to cross-border e-commerce in the EU."
Video-streaming services are exempt from the proposed policy because they fall under separate rules governing audiovisual services. They do however face content quotas, which were also proposed on Wednesday. Under new rules, Netflix and Amazon will have to ensure that at least 20 percent of the content in their listings are homegrown European films and TV shows.
Terry Bollea, aka Hulk Hogan, testifies in court during his trial  against Gawker Media in March.
There are no second chances for Gawker in its battle with Hulk Hogan, at least not right now.
A Florida judge on Wednesday denied Gawker's motion for a new trial and said she wouldn't reduce the $140 million jury verdict.
The ruling deals a blow to the media gossip website founded by Nick Denton. Hogan,  a wrestler whose real name is Terry Bollea, won the large verdict in a Florida jury trial in March after claiming Gawker violated his privacy in 2012 when it published a sex tape involving him and the now-estranged wife of a friend.
"Gawker has failed and continues to fail in recognizing their obligation to Bollea for their reprehensible behavior and method of doing what they call journalism," David Houston, one of Hogan's litigation lawyers, said Wednesday in a statement. "Their refusal to accept responsibility for their conduct and denial of the obvious continues to drive their litigation strategy."
Gawker will likely appeal the ruling, which means this long-running battle isn't over yet.
The company in a statement referenced reports that venture capitalist Peter Thiel has funded Hogan's legal fight:
"We look forward to the legal process continuing and expect to be vindicated. Just days after Gawker Media's site Gizmodo exposed that Facebook's news section has suppressed certain points of view, we've now learned that a Facebook board member and a major funder of The Committee to Protect Journalists has been secretly funding a legal campaign against our journalists. There are very serious questions about whether Hulk Hogan financially benefitted, and this case is far from over."
The Associated Press earlier reported the news.
Update, 11 a.m. PT: Adds comment from Hogan's attorney.
Update, 3 p.m. PT: Adds comment from Gawker.
Apple retail stores may not pop up in India after all.
Apple might have trouble opening the doors to retail stores in India due to local sourcing rules.
The company has been attempting to launch its first retail outlets in India, a country where Apple products are currently sold only online or through third-party retailers. One obstacle is that foreign companies selling products in India must purchase 30 percent of their components from local businesses if they wish to open up retail stores.
Apple, which makes almost all of its products in China, had seemed close to winning an exception to that policy. But that's reportedly no longer the case.
India's finance minister, Arun Jaitley, is supporting a decision made by India's Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) requiring Apple to follow the country's sourcing policy, Bloomberg reported on Wednesday, citing people familiar with the matter.
Hit by a drop in iPhone sales, especially in established markets, Apple needs to push the phone in developing regions. India is the second-largest and fastest-growing smartphone market in the world. Apple Stores could help sales by giving people the chance to try out devices and speak with customer service reps in person. That in turn might help Apple boost its 2 percent market share in the country.
"The government's decision will have a pretty profound effect on Apple," Neil Shah, research director at Counterpoint Research, told Bloomberg. "The company typically likes to control every piece of the iPhone value chain right from sourcing components to the point of sale. Having complete control has been key to its strategy."
The decision by Jaitley could be overturned, Bloomberg said, but that might require the involvement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. India can offer exemptions to certain companies that it believes make cutting-edge technology products. But the FIPB has determined that it won't grant Apple such an exemption, Bloomberg's sources said.
iPhone sales are up in India, jumping by 56 percent last quarter. But Apple faces challenges in this market. Indian consumers gravitate to budget-friendly phones, including those made by top vendor Samsung. Apple's iPhone is a premium-priced product, though the company is trying to capture more price-conscious consumers with its 4-inch iPhone SE.
Neither Apple nor representatives from the Foreign Investment Promotion Board immediately responded to CNET's requests for comment.
All the latest Apple news, featuring developments on the iPhone, iPad, Macbooks, OS X and much more.
Xioami's first gadget for the US market isn't a phone, but we knew it wouldn't be. When I spoke to the company in April, global VP Hugo Barra made it exceedingly clear that 2016 isn't the year we'll see a Xiaomi phone natively compete against Samsung, Apple and all the rest.
But that doesn't make the launch of Xiaomi's Mi Box set-top box any less significant. In fact, it's a sign of Xiaomi putting its money where its mouth is and expanding into the mature US market in a field rife with rivals -- just like it'll have to do when it readies that very first US phone.
By selecting a set-top box rather than a handset, Xiaomi is deliberately planting hooks in strategic places. Using the annual Google I/O conference as a stage to announce its own product amplifies the noise Xiaomi can generate around itself, and that's important attention for a relative unknown in the US.
"TV products are one of our specialties," said Xiaomi's Barra, Google's former VP of Android, during our interview at Google I/O. "So the fact that we're bringing one of our most important products to the US certainly does say a lot."
Xiaomi global VP (and former Google Android VP) Hugo Barra shows CNET the Mi Box at Google I/O 2016.
The set-top box runs on Android TV, and therefore supports features like HDR and 4K UHD shows and games, as well as Google Cast, which lets you mirror what you're watching on your phone screen to the TV screen. Whenever Android TV updates, so will the Mi Box. And while Roku and Nvidia are two powerful brands in this space, Xiaomi plans to do what it always does: cast a low price lure (we don't know what it is yet) and wiggle it around to attract buyers who aren't steadfastly brand-loyal.
While Xiaomi would certainly like the Mi Box to sell (because, who doesn't like their products to sell?), the company is realistic that the set-top box also acts as target practice.
A set-top box is "also a much simpler product [in] many ways than a smartphone," Barra said, which requires extensive testing and certification to make sure that phones work with carrier networks. "So you know one of the things that you could say is this is Xiaomi sort of...warming up to this market, making sure that people start to know our brand."
If the Mi Box is Xiaomi's warm-up act for the US, it's an all but red-hot fact that Xiaomi's first phone for these shores (which is sure to launch globally as well) will support Google's Daydream standard for virtual reality.
No pricing yet on the Chinese brand's first US product, but Xioami hints it could undercut more established rivals.
Along with Samsung, HTC, ZTE, Huawei, Alcatel, Asus and LG, Xiaomi is one of the brands to commit to making phones that work with the just-announced VR software -- but the question is when. Beating out some of its better-known competitors in supporting Daydream (or better yet, becoming the brand behind a Nexus phone), will help improve Xiaomi's chances of scoring some sales.
These are certainly things that Xiaomi needs to think about as it lays its plans. But the Mi Box's fate is important on its own, too. If successful, it will set the stage for introducing the brand's devices like phones and home appliances into an important region. If not, Xiaomi may have to adjust its product portfolio and philosophy for the US, and for other similar markets.
So far, Xiaomi seems to be playing things smart. Now let's see if this Mi Box can stand up to the challenge.
All the news from the annual Google I/O event, including the latest on Android.
Alibaba Group Chairman Jack Ma speaking at The Economic Club of New York.
Alibaba, China's largest e-commerce site, is under the microscope of the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company, which famously sold $1 billion worth of goods in eight minutes during China's Single's Day holiday, disclosed in a filing with the SEC that the agency is looking into its accounting practices. The probe is focused on the company's policies and practices, including how it reports operating data from Single's Day, which is unique to China and is sort of an anti-Valentine's Day.
Alibaba is cooperating with the investigation and voluntarily disclosing information to the agency, according to the filing. "The SEC advised us that the initiation of a request for information should not be construed as an indication by the SEC or its staff that any violation of the federal securities laws has occurred," the filing said. "This matter is ongoing, and, as with any regulatory proceeding, we cannot predict when it will be concluded."
A spokesman couldn't immediately be reached to provide further comment.
Huawei has a bone to pick with Samsung.
Death and taxes may be the only things certain in this world, but when it comes to technology, patent lawsuits can't be far behind.
The latest comes from Huawei, which on Wednesday filed lawsuits in China and the US alleging Samsung Electronics illegally used technology related to 4G cellular communications, operating systems and user interface software without a licensing deal. The company said it hoped Samsung would stop infringing its patents and getting a pact worked out.
It's just the latest in a series of patent lawsuits in the tech world, the most notable of which has been the high-profile battle between Apple and Samsung. Last year, Ericsson and Apple settled their own patent lawsuit, and Samsung had successfully defended itself against an Nvidia patent claim.
"We will thoroughly review the complaint and take appropriate action to defend Samsung's business interests," Samsung said in an e-mailed statement.
Netflix is already investing in European content, making shows such as "Marseille," starring Gerard Depardieu.
Netflix, Amazon and other streaming services operating in Europe will be required to ensure that at least 20 percent of their content is European, according to new European Commission proposals.
The Commission published its proposals on Wednesday as part of its edict to create a single digital market in Europe. A large part of its mission is to promote the European film industry and ensure that its citizens have access to homegrown content alongside films and TV shows created in the US. Streaming services will therefore also be compelled to contribute financially to creating European works.
The proposals, first rumored last week, also require video-sharing services to take responsibility for protecting children. This will require the introduction of tools to flag harmful content and age-verification and parental-control systems.
"The way we watch TV or videos may have changed, but our values don't," said Commissioner for the Digital Economy and Society Günther H. Oettinger. The new rules will help to "ensure a level playing field, responsible behavior, trust and fairness in the online platforms environment," he added.
Netflix and Amazon did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
In 2020, the Olympics will head to Tokyo. Appropriately for Japan, it looks as though it'll be the most high-tech Games yet.
And as part of the country's push for new technology for the Olympics, Fujitsu is creating a laser-guided system to score gymnasts. The company claims that the scoring for gymnastics, a particularly dynamic sport, can be too subjective. This new tech aims to solve that problem.
The Japan Gymnastics Association and Fujitsu have partnered in developing the system by incorporating 3D laser sensors that create a real-time 3D model of the gymnast. These sensors are capable of measuring 76,800 points of motion per frame up to 30 times per second, providing pin-point readings of gymnastic movement.
Conventional 3D motion-capture technology typically uses a combination of multiple cameras and a suit fitted with special markers. With the laser sensors, the 3D model can be created without the need for burdening the athlete with additional performance-hampering gear.
The system will also include a "telescope" function, to make up for the fact that laser sensor accuracy drops as distance between the sensor and object increases.
The technology is expected to be completed before the 2020 Olympics. Other projects in the works for the games include holographic billboards and signs, and 8K television broadcasts, which are being trialled during the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro this August.
Microsoft backs out of making more consumer Windows Phones after cutting jobs from its Nokia division.
Microsoft is continuing its retreat from the mobile phone business with massive job cuts in its devices division.
The company announced Wednesday that it would be axing 1,850 jobs in addition to the 4,500 job cuts that were announced last week, along with the sale of its feature phone business.
The majority of the losses affect employees in Finland, where Nokia, whose phone operations Microsoft purchased in 2014, has always had its base. In addition to the job cuts, the company is writing off $950 million.
That nearly billion-dollar hit echoes the much larger financial blast of just a year ago, when Microsoft announced a $7.5 billion write-down tied to the Nokia deal. The acquisition's quick failure showed just how hard it can be for even a deep-pocketed technology giant to go up against the two dynamos of the mobile phone business, Apple's iPhone and the wide array of devices running Google's Android software.
While Nokia once was a dominant force in the phone business, its star was on the wane when the Windows maker moved in. Phones running Microsoft's software today account for only a tiny fraction of the overall market.
Microsoft won't be turning away from phones completely, though.
"We are focusing our phone efforts where we have differentiation -- with enterprises that value security, manageability and our Continuum capability, and consumers who value the same," Chief Executive Satya Nadella said in a statement. "We will continue to innovate across devices and on our cloud services across all mobile platforms."
It's also possible that the company still plans to introduce a new range of small mobile devices in spring 2017, as previously announced.
Microsoft did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Meanwhile, watch for Nokia-branded phones to make their way back to the market through the companies that just bought those assets from Microsoft. And this time, they'll be packing Android.
If you're a Telegram or Viber user and wondering why there's no one else to message, the answer could lie in new data on the global usage of different messenger apps on Android.
Research from analytics firm SimilarWeb shows that the Facebook-owned WhatsApp is currently the world leader, being the most popular messaging app in 109 countries. Facebook's own Messenger app is a distant second, topping the charts in 49 countries.
These two apps greatly outdid other messaging apps such as Viber, Line, WeChat and Telegram, though Viber is the only one of the four to claim more than ten countries.
Some apps dominate in their home country but nowhere else, as in the case of KakaoTalk in South Korea and BBM in Indonesia.
You can check out the full report here.
Faced with a new ruling from a Swedish court that saw its Swedish ThePirateBay.se and PirateBay.se domains confiscated, torrent site The Pirate Bay is moving back to where it first started in 2003, ThePirateBay.org.
The site is currently redirecting all traffic from the above two domains back to its .org home. The Pirate Bay had originally moved to .se in 2012, before making moves to more obscure domains, such as .sx and .ac. It would eventually return to .se in 2015. The alternative domains the site was using have all been seized.
While the moves were meant as a way to avoid copyright lawsuit-related closures, the return back to .org could see potential legal action from the US, as the registry that manages the top level .org domains is based in Virginia.
Pirate Bay co-founder Fredrik Neij is planning to appeal the Swedish court's decision to confiscate the .se domains.
Hulk Hogan has some pretty big Silicon Valley muscle backing him in his legal battle against Gawker Media, according to Forbes.
The site reports that PayPal co-founder Peter Thiel is footing the legal bill for the former wrestler, aka Terry Bollea, who won more than $115 million in a Florida jury trial  in March after claiming Gawker violated his privacy in 2012 when it  published a sex tape involving him and the now-estranged wife of a  friend. The report emerges a day after Gawker founder Nick Denton told The New York Times that he suspected a Silicon Valley financier might be serving as a benefactor for the former wrestler.
Denton and Thiel have a history of animosity stretching back at least a decade. In 2007, Denton's Gawker attempted to out Thiel,  who is gay, before he was open about his sexuality. Two years later,  Thiel told PEHub that Gawker's now-defunct Valleywag was "the Silicon Valley equivalent of Al Qaeda."
A Thiel representative did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Google built a knockoff of Amazon's Echo. Now, reportedly, it's Apple's turn.
As if family squabbles weren't enough, just wait till all those voice-activated smart home speakers start trying to out-shout each other in your kitchen or living room.
That's right, we not only have an Amazon Echo rival from Google, but, if a report from The Information turns out to be true, we may be seeing (and hearing) one from Apple too.
The device will be powered by everyone's favorite iPhone seductress, Siri, and will, among other things, be able to turn on or off any appliance that's compatible with Apple's Homekit platform, The Information says. But the gadget may not appear for a while. It's more of a long-term project, says the report.
Meanwhile, Apple will be opening up Siri to outside developers so the voice assistant can become a part of third-party apps, the report adds. That could happen as soon as June, at Apple's annual Worldwide Developers Conference.
Apple declined to comment.
I don't know about you, but I can't wait to pick up all these echoes of the Echo, along with Amazon's device itself (powered by its Alexa app), and see who gets the upper hand in a witty-repartee contest. "OK, Google, Siri, Alexa: Who's the fairest voice-activated smart home speaker of them all? The snarkiest wins; the rest of you get recycled. Bwahahahaa..."
In a mission to make its network simpler, Twitter changes the 140-character limit to not count usernames and media, among other tweaks.
Adding photos and usernames will no longer cut into your word count on Twitter. The network wants to make it easier for newbies to jump in and tweet, and it's making some changes to the 140-character limit, as you'll see in the video above.
But it seems Twitter is not the only one making big changes. Apple's next MacBook Pro is said to have a completely new design when it comes out late this year -- and it includes a small touchscreen control bar and a Touch ID fingerprint scanner:
Apple's next MacBook Pro laptop could be getting a huge redesign, with a report pointing to an OLED touchscreen panel and Touch ID fingerprint scanner.

A police officer stands in the Paris offices of Google, as law enforcement carries out a search as part of a tax fraud investigation.
The French government is engaged in one heck of a Google search.
Tax investigators raided and sealed off Google's Paris office Tuesday as part of a newly revealed probe, which began last June, into whether Google owes the French more than €1 billion ($1.12 billion) in back taxes and fines.
The probe, reported by The Wall Street Journal, involves whether Google does more business in France than its current tax structure suggests. The company books most of its European revenue in Ireland and reimburses units in other countries. But the French government says that because Google execs negotiate ad deals in Paris, the company's Irish unit has a taxable presence in France, according to the report.
Google, now under parent company Alphabet, says it follows French regulations.
"We comply with the tax law in France, as in every other country in which we operate," Google said in a statement. "We are cooperating fully with the authorities in Paris to answer their questions, as always."
The French government didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
The capsule will be made up of two layers of the smart material.
Hyperloop Transportation Technologies unveiled on Tuesday a smart material packed with sensors that will be used to craft the capsules for the tubular transit system.
Made from famously lightweight carbon fiber, the material is eight times stronger than aluminium and 10 times stronger than any steel alternative, according to HTT. The advantage of keeping the material, which is called Vibranium, so feather light is that it will reduce the energy needed to propel the capsules across long distances.
Critically, the sensors locked inside the material are able to measure and relay information about the capsules back to an operations base for the proposed high-speed transportation system. The sensors will read the capsule's temperature, stability and integrity in real time in order to guarantee safety and performance, HTT said.
The idea for Hyperloop, the system by which commuters shoot between cities at speeds of up to 700mph, was initially dreamed up by Elon Musk of Tesla and SpaceX fame. HTT is one of two companies currently trying to bring Musk's vision to life. The other, Hyperloop One, showed off its initial efforts at a working test track earlier this month in the Nevada desert.
HTT has yet to unveil a similar magnetized jet-propulsion system -- the basis of the Hyperloop concept -- but did demonstrate its smart material in action at Pioneer's Festival in Vienna on Tuesday.
HTT is concentrating -- reassuringly -- on safety innovations. The company plans to construct its capsule from dual layers of its smart material so that even if the outside of the capsule is damaged it can continue to operate safely.
"Safety is one of the most important aspects of our system," Dirk Ahlborn, CEO of HTT, said in a statement.
eBay has agreed to acquire Ticketbis to expand its StubHub online ticket sales business, the auction site said Tuesday.
StubHub and Ticketbis offer a secondary market that lets people sell their tickets to concerts, games and other events. The Ticketbis acquisition will be folded into the Stubhub operation to introduce it to the Asia-Pacific region and improve its presence in Latin America and Europe, the company said.
"eBay's global presence will help StubHub acquire new customers as it expands into markets outside of the US. This deal reaffirms our commitment to investing in StubHub and helping fuel its momentum," eBay Chief Executive Devin Wenig said in a statement.
StubHub already is available in the US, UK, Canada, Germany, France, Switzerland, Austria and Mexico.
Terms of the deal weren't disclosed, but TechCrunch reported the deal's value at $165 million. Spokesman Glenn Lehrman declined to comment on the report.
Just as electricity transformed everything we do, artificial intelligence -- think really, really smart machines -- will upend industries from retail to finance to transportation.
And that will reshape our world and change our lives, said a panel of experts Monday discussing "The State of AI" at the EmTech Digital Conference in San Francisco. The transformation, though, will rest on humbler underpinnings. In much the same way that all companies learned to make use of the Internet, they'll start to adapt to AI by expanding their data teams.
Three of the biggest experts in artificial intelligence, Andrew Ng, Peter Norvig and Oren Etzioni, say despite its recent boom, AI still has a long way to go.
"Today, we're in a stage where companies are hiring a chief data officer," said Andrew Ng, the chief scientist at China's search giant, Baidu. "Maybe in the future they will hire a chief AI officer as well."
Tech companies are investing heavily in AI. Google is staking its future on the technology, developing a voice-powered version of its namesake search engine that will inhabit your phone, smartwatch and car. Last month, Facebook launched a new Applied Machine Learning group that the social network claims helps its more than 1.6 billion users find content more quickly.
Sometimes, the efforts go awry. Microsoft launched an AI-powered chatbot, called Tay, only to quickly pull the plug after it got gamed and started tweeting racist and pornographic remarks.
Innovators, including Elon Musk and Stephen Hawking, have warned that AI might be dangerous. Musk, who likened AI to "summoning the demon," helped launch a $1 billion research group called OpenAI.
Peter Norvig, Google's director of research, and Oren Etzioni, CEO of the Allen Institute of Artificial Intelligence, joined Ng in celebrating AI's ascent. They cited  AlphaGo, a Google software project that beat one of the best Go players in the world.
The three agreed, though, that AI still has long way to go. There are still many challenges to using machine learning, the process by which computers teach themselves tasks by interpreting large sets of data.
"We're making progress, but how far does it go?" Etzioni said. "It's too early. It's too speculative to worry about AI turning evil."
"Can I make a reservation?" Until now, most ride-hailing services have said no. But this summer, Lyft is rolling out a new feature called Scheduled Rides to let you plan trips up to 24 hours in advance.
The trips will work identically to a normal Lyft booking, according to an Lyft spokesperson, only now you can schedule them ahead of time. There's no extra charge for a Scheduled Ride, though there will be a minimum fee for the trip. Lyft is still testing how surge pricing might affect a scheduled booking.
If you need to cancel, you can do so up to 30 minutes before your reservation. You also won't have to worry about a car showing up with other passengers already seated -- Scheduled Rides will be exclusive to you and your party, said a Lyft rep.
While Uber and other major ride-hailing startups haven't offered reservations in the past, the Flywheel app, used by the taxi industry, added the ability to advance-book airport trips back in 2014.
Xiaomi's Mi Box, announced in May.
Even China's Xiaomi, the second-highest startup in the world, appears to be suffering from the maturing phone market.
The smartphone manufacturer saw only a 5 percent increase in revenue in 2015 over 2014, growing from 74.3 billion yuan ($11. 3 billion) to 78 billion yuan ($11.9 billion), according to a report in Fortune, which cited a public relations official who spoke at a Beijing tech conference over the weekend. An Xiaomi spokeswoman later told Fortune the the company has never shared that revenue figure and declined to comment on it.
An increase that small is considered "flat" by finance folks, and in line with the industry, which is having trouble maintaining the growth rates of yesteryear. Like many other phone companies, Xiaomi has been attempting to expand into new territory, such as action cameras like the Yi,  media streamers like the Mi Box, personal transportation in the Ninebot Mini and most recently, drones.
The company is still worth north of $40 billion, according to the Fortune report, which makes its startup valuation second only to Uber.
We've reached out to Xiomi for comment but haven't yet heard back.
Spotify running on an Android Wear watch.
Music-streaming service Spotify on Monday dropped the price of its Family Plan down to $14.99 (£14.99 or AU$17.99) per month for up to six people -- the exact same pricing offered by Apple Music. Spotify's previous plan meant that six people sharing an account would have been charged $34.99 per month.
The new plan includes a premium subscription, with individual accounts, anywhere in the world -- except Canada -- all collected on a single bill.
This change comes on the heels of the company's announcement that it is adding video content.
Americans can't get enough mobile data.
US mobile customers more than doubled their data usage last year while carrier revenue inched up, according to the CTIA wireless industry trade group's annual survey released Monday.
Annual wireless data usage jumped from 4.6 trillion megabytes in 2014 to 9.65 trillion megabytes in 2015. That's the equivalent of more than 400 million 2GB movie downloads each month last year. Americans spent 17 percent more time on voice calls last year, reaching 2.88 trillion minutes on their mobile phones. They sent 44 percent more multimedia messages -- likely cat photos -- for a total of 218.5 billion. Meanwhile, plain old texting dropped by 1.5 percent to 1.89 trillion messages.
While carriers snagged a 6.3 percent increase in subscribers last year to reach 377.9 million, their revenue grew by only 2.2 percent to about $191.9 billion. Capital investment has dipped two years in a row, touching $32 billion last year. Over 2015, only about 9,600 new cell towers sprang up across the nation. Cold comfort for folks in remote locations.
Correction, 8:10 a.m. PT: The data and subscriber figures have been fixed.
A phone that can make calls? Outrageous!
Apple is being sued by a Texas patent troll for including features such as calling and emailing on iPads and iPhones.
Corydoras Technologies, which fired similar shots at Samsung back in March, is suing Apple for infringing upon six patents acquired from Japan, Patently Apple reported Monday.
The company is seeking a payout from Apple for allowing more than 20 different devices to make voice and FaceTime calls, and for placing cameras on the same side of the devices as the display. Other complaints include the display of geographic location data on the screen, the ability to block unwanted callers and the ability to send and receive emails.
Apple's high profile in the tech world and famously bulging coffers means that it is frequently subject to such claims. The company was the number one target for patent trolls in the US last year, Patently Apple reported in July.
Apple did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Corydoras Technologies could not be contacted.
All the latest Apple news, featuring developments on the iPhone, iPad, Macbooks, OS X and much more.
In Chinese Internet and text slang, "520" means "I love you". Naturally, there's a lot of romantic gift-giving going on come May 20. This weekend Taobao, an Alibaba-owned online marketplace similar to Amazon, encouraged people to shop via VR headset by offering interactions with a virtual boyfriend or girlfriend.
To enter this brave new world of digital love, Chinese buyers needed the Taobao app and a VR headset such as Samsung's Gear VR. They simply needed to scan this QR code and then they'd be whisked off to choose their cyber soul-mate.
Customers were offered two choices: "boyfriend" or "girlfriend", the former played by popular Chinese actor Yang Yang, the latter by actress Dilraba. They would interact with buyers in various prerecorded point-of-view videos, wherein they would wake the user up and even make them breakfast.
This was a move by Alibaba to get more people on board with its new VR video player, developed by subsidiary GnomeMagic. The Chinese giant isn't the only e-commerce company hoping to get buyers in the VR realm, with eBay recently partnering with Australian department store Myer to sell 12,500 products through a VR store.
Alibaba has found great success when it comes to Chinese holidays.  On Single's Day in November, when single people all over China engage in retail therapy to salve their loneliness, it managed to pull in $1 billion in sales in just 8 minutes.
Chance the Rapper will make music history this week.
Chance the Rapper's "Coloring Book" will be the first streaming-only album to appear on the Billboard 200 chart, set to debut at No. 8 when the list is published Tuesday.
The album was only available on Apple Music for its first week of release. In that time, it received the equivalent of 38,000 album purchases, according to Billboard. In Billboard's metrics, 1,500 streams equate to one album, meaning the album was streamed more than 57 million times.
While Kanye West's "The Life of Pablo" was a veritable juggernaut on music streaming service Tidal, a fraction of a percent of its units were album purchases rather than streams, disqualifying it from this particular honor.
"Coloring Book" will remain an Apple Music exclusive until Friday. Though there are plans to release it to other streaming services, there have been no announcements regarding a physical album release.
The theater chain is working with movie studios to create short virtual reality experiences to go alongside a movie. IMAX wants to open six VR locations this year.
Maybe we're not ready for Jaws 19 in Holomax. But next year's summer blockbuster could have bonus footage in virtual reality at Imax theaters.
The chain known for over-sized theaters has plans to bring VR to the movies, starting with six of its theaters around the world. But to do that, Imax first is working with Google to create a better VR camera for filmmakers.
An entire movie in VR may be a bit much, so the plan is to have customers buy tickets for short experiences. Watch CNET Update above for the details.

Razer has had a big few years, widening its reach thanks largely to its Blade line of laptops. In another significant move for the company, which primarily sells its products online, it's opening a physical RazerStore outlet in San Francisco.
Its first brick and mortar RazerStore outside of Asia, the 1,286 square-foot, fully enclosed outlet will open on Saturday at the Westfield San Francisco Center.
Razer products will be sold at the store, but its main aim is to get prospective customers to try out the company's line of laptops, keyboards, headsets, mice and other gaming accessories. The outlet will also be home to eSports tournaments, free giveaways, game and product launches.
The periphery giant currently has three other RazerStores in Bangkok, Taipei and Manila.
Razer has had a busy year, launching three key products: the Blade Stealth, an ultrabook that's its first non-gaming laptop; the impressive 2016 Blade, which is more powerful and $400 cheaper than last year's model; and the Core, a graphics card docking station that plugs into a laptop to give it desktop-level gaming power.
"This is not a traditional retail outlet," a Razer spokesperson said of the new outlet. "We are encouraging fans to come hang out and game in the store. Sell-through is not the priority, giving people the true customer experience is the motivation behind these stores."
The company will have all of its products, including Web exclusives, on show in the store, as well as items from partners like Microsoft and Lenovo.
Surprise! Warren Buffett's company Berkshire Hathaway owned 9.81 million shares in Apple as of the end of 2016's first quarter, according to regulatory documents filed Monday. Those shares were worth about $1.07 billion as of March 31.
The disclosure comes less than a month after Apple reported its first-ever drop in iPhone sales, a period that's seen a sharp dropoff in the price of the company's shares. Meanwhile, activist investor Carl Icahn has dumped his stake in Apple, citing worries about the Chinese market.
Buffett, a legendary investor who has generally avoided technology stocks, reportedly is also considering teaming up to make a bid for shares of troubled Internet company Yahoo.
Apple didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Apple boss Tim Cook is in Beijing this week to stem the company's China crisis.
Tim Cook just took a $1 billion taxi ride. Arriving in China, the Apple CEO jumped into a cab from Didi Chuxing, the ridesharing app and Uber rival in which Apple recently invested $1 billion.
Cook is reported to be visiting China to smooth over recent troubles. The country has been a tough territory for Apple recently: the US company lost the "iPhone" trademark there and saw iTunes blocked, while falling iPhone sales drove billionaire investor Carl Icahn to offload his stake in the company.
Cook was bullish about those results, however. "I could not be more optimistic about China," he said earlier this month.
Apple did not immediately respond to a request for comment about the purpose of the visit.
Upon arriving, Cook headed for the Apple Store in Beijing's popular shopping district Wangfujing to meet with the boss of Didi Chuxing and founders and CEOs of some of China's top apps, including Meituan, Toutiao.com and Tap4Fun.
All the latest Apple news, featuring developments on the iPhone, iPad, Macbooks, OS X and much more.
You like popcorn with your movies? Well, too bad. In the future when we're all watching full-length film in virtual reality, there will be no time for snacks. You'll be too busy being right in the center of the action.
Imagine a battle scene in your favorite superhero blockbuster. The villain is right in front of you, caught up in some dastardly deed, the red of his maniacal eyes boring holes in your own just a few feet away. Behind you, buildings rumble and shake. The brooding sky darkens above, crackling with energy. Beneath your feet, the pavement begins to fracture and split.
One day soon, you might strap on a VR headset to watch a movie.
The cinematic action  will feel so close with a pair of VR goggles strapped around your head, and so much more real.
"[Virtual reality] is going to be the biggest change in filmmaking in our lifetimes," Oculus' head of video, Eugene Wei, said to a room of journalists in San Francisco last week. "It's on par with sound or color in film."
That's a big statement, but one that Oculus' Wei accepts as an inevitability. Today, the virtual reality hardware company (which is owned by Facebook) is working directly with Hulu and Discovery to bring shorts videos to Oculus-driven headsets, like the  Samsung Gear VR and the Oculus Rift.
For now, they're starting with videos shorter than 10 minutes, because VR video is costly and time-consuming to make, and because virtual reality in its current state can make some people feel nauseous or visually uncomfortable after a long time, especially if there's a lot of fast movement. But in the not-too-distant future, improving technology and greater investment in VR will pave the way for making full-length movies that are exciting and physically comfortable to watch.
For example, it will take under five minutes to join the crew of Discovery's The Deadliest Catch VR, which launches May 17, and about 10 minutes for the just-released 6x9, a slow-paced exploration into what it's like to live incarcerated in solitary confinement. In June, Oculus launches Notes on Blindness: Into Darkness, which chronicles the journey of one man as he loses his vision.
I got a chance to demo the latter two at the event; they're topics that demand your time as they unfold.
(Read more on Oculus' recent announcements here.)
VR offers an enthralling type of storytelling precisely because of the way that scenes flood your field of vision, and new information reveals itself as you look around.
If you've ever tried VR, then you might be right there with me in regarding it as a transformative experience that you have to experience to "get". Riding a roller coaster in VR was still convincing enough for me (not a fan) to avert my eyes when I was whooshed "upside down". A documentary of the Syrian civil war brought my colleague Scott Stein to tears. Because it is a medium that fully immerses you in a world you can only escape when you remove your goggles, there are ways to tell stories in a deeper, more meaningful way in VR.
The Hulu app for Oculus (available for Samsung Gear VR), already lets you watch shows in a virtual reality environment.
You are the person sitting inside a blank jail cell, craning your neck behind you to see the crumbling, glancing up at the ceiling to count the bricks. You are the one whose vision flickers and blurs, and eventually extinguishes. With VR, you don't simply watch and hear; you begin to put yourself into another's shoes. You place yourself in someone else's perspective.
"Directors of Academy films understand the promise of [VR] technology," Wei said of the impactful storytelling medium that makes people not just see and hear, but also feel. "Movie studios and TV networks are picking up VR film-making," he added. "DJs want to bring the party to people's homes."
(If you don't give a crap about VR, here's why you really should.)
Oculus won't be alone in courting Hollywood movie studios as interest in VR and continues to grow. Expect Microsoft (Hololens) and HTC (Vive) to jump into the fray once there's enough critical mass from users and studios to support costly, labor-intensive VR movie features.
It's starting to get there, for Oculus anyway. The Irvine-based company reported that Samsung Gear VR owners have watched nearly 3 million hours of  VR video. In addition, over 1 million people used the Oculus-powered Samsung Gear VR in April, an accomplishment that the company's head of mobile, Max Cohen, called "a magic number for a lot of people to start taking this seriously."
And by "seriously," he means investing money into projects, starting with film shorts like the "Darkness" documentary and expanding into longer and more involved movies. For now, it's too early to trade in those ill-fitting 3D movie theater glasses for a pair of VR goggles, but from what I've seen of VR content so far, I'm inclined to agree with Oculus: it does have the power to change filmmaking in our lifetimes. The games that VR is known for? They're just the beginning.
Rovio has the US and China in its sights after a strong opening weekend.
Just days away from its US premiere, "The Angry Birds Movie" has already soared to number 1 across 37 markets, raking in $43 million during its first weekend across Europe, South America and Australia.
The biggest contender for game-turned-movie-you-never-knew-you-needed this side of "Jumanji 2," the 3D animated film has already made more than half its reported $80 million budget. Rovio, the creators of the original Angry Birds mobile game and the driving force behind the film, is also claiming a record May opening for an original animated film with the premiere.
"Strong critical reception and great word of mouth ignited the box office on Saturday as 'The Angry Birds Movie' displayed huge increases from Friday, suggesting a long and, dare we say it, happy run for the film," the company said on its website.
"The Angry Birds Movie" is set to open in the US, China and South Korea on May 20.
Google Cardboard version 2.0. Will we see 3.0 at I/O this year?
Google I/O is meant to educate developers about using Google's platforms, but the  reason we all tune in is to see product updates and big, brand-new  things from the Internet giant.
This year, Google is taking things back to the mothership. Instead of holding I/O 2016  at a convention center in San Francisco, it's hosting the event at the Shoreline Amphitheater outdoor concert venue in its Mountain View backyard (no, really).
I don't know for sure what Google will have to flaunt at I/O, but it's not too hard to guess, based on a close look at the official agenda and parsing rumors. Here's what I expect to see at Google I/O 2016 this week -- and be sure to tune into CNET's Google I/O live blog on Wednesday.
2016 is already the year of VR, and I/O is staking its claim with a session on the conference schedule called VR at Google. That's not a surprise, given that Google's been playing with virtual and augmented reality at I/O for years. The company has shown off Cardboard, its low-cost portable VR viewer initiative, for the last two years, and this year we're certain to see new developments.
Android VR, Project Tango, Android N, Android Wear and Chirp are expected to make an appearance at Google I/O 2016.
Indeed, the VR rumors abound. Tech guru Pete Rojas -- the founder of Gizmodo and Engadget -- tweeted on Wednesday that "Android

 VR will definitely be announced next week" and that it "will be a standalone headset." And just a day later, we got some possible corroboration: Android Police reported that the I/O developers' tool lists "Google VR" as a placeholder section.
For more VR insights, check out my colleague Scott Stein's wish list for what he hopes to see from VR at I/O.
Google's Project Tango will be at I/O, as evidenced by a number of sessions on the agenda. That makes sense, because the motion-tracking and mapping tech ties directly in to Google's VR and augmented reality efforts (see above). As any owner of the HTC Vive will tell you, you need to "map the room" so you can avoid real-world obstacles while you have the goggles on.
We saw some enticing Tango action at Mobile World Congress earlier this year, and we know a phone Lenovo is developing will go on sale soon, too. (Lenovo is having its own developer confab in the Bay Area just a few weeks later.)
Project Tango can show you things that aren't really there, like arrows to an exit or floating boxes.
Updates to Android

 are par for the course at I/O; two years ago, Google debuted Android L at I/O ahead of the official 5.0 Lollipop release in the fall. They did it again with Android M before 6.0 Marshmallow last year, too. This year is a bit different because Google decided to get a jump on Android N (official name forthcoming) by unveiling the developer preview back in March.
At I/O this year, Google has scheduled a "What's new in Android session," guaranteeing that we'll see at least some updates, if not the next developer preview of N.
We'll find out what's next with Android at I/O.
How about Google's other big operating system, the browser-based Chrome OS? There was that big rumor back in October that Chrome and Android were on a merger path for 2017. We don't spot any Chrome-specific developer sessions on the schedule, so whether or not we hear any new Chrome OS news is anyone's guess.
Google may be working on a home speaker you can talk to much like the Amazon Echo. Details are scarce, but reports say its internal name is "Chirp" and it will respond to "OK Google" commands to ask about the weather, search the Web and control your music. Rumors say it likely won't debut at Google I/O, but we could still see it anyway.
This is the first I/O since Google restructured itself into Alphabet, segmenting other parts of the empire into separate companies. Whether any of those sister projects or companies make an appearance at the I/O keynote is also a mystery. We could see the next Nest-sponsored smart home device or a self-driving car demo from Google X. Or (more likely) they could stay close to home base, and only emphasize truly Google products and services like the ones outlined above -- plus perhaps YouTube, Maps and good ol' Google search.
But no matter what happens, we'll be there. Google I/O starts on Wednesday, May 18, 2016, with the big keynote kicking off at 10 a.m. PT (that's 1 p.m. ET, 6 p.m. UK and 3 a.m.  Thursday AEST). Tune into CNET for all of the coverage -- we'll have  editors on the ground, a live show back at HQ and people broadcasting on  social media from the event.
All the news from the annual Google I/O event, including the latest on Android.
In an emotional speech Saturday, Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg opened up publicly for the first time about the sudden death of her husband.
"For many months...I was swallowed in the deep fog of grief...an emptiness that fills your heart and your lungs, constricts your ability to think, or even to breathe," Sandberg, 46, said during her commencement address at the University of California, Berkeley, several miles north of Silicon Valley and the Facebook campus.
"I learned about the depths of sadness and the brutality of loss, but I also learned that when life sucks you under, you can kick against the bottom, find the surface, and breathe again."
Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg takes a moment to collect herself while discussing her grief at the loss of her husband.
Sandberg's husband, Yahoo veteran and SurveyMonkey CEO David Goldberg, died at 47 of a cardiac arrhythmia a little more than a year ago, while the couple was vacationing in Mexico. And Sandberg, often fighting back tears, made her climb out of grief the centerpiece of her speech.
She counseled the new graduates to be resilient and to be wary of three common reactions people have when misfortune strikes. Don't automatically blame yourself, she said: "Not everything that happens to us happens because of us." Don't let a crisis in one part of your life blind you to the good things that still exist around you. And don't make the mistake of thinking that your sorrow will last forever.
"In the face of the void or in the face of any challenge, you can choose joy and meaning," Sandberg said. "You will be defined not just by what you achieve but by how you survive."
Despite the intensity of parts of her talk, Sandberg made room for levity. At one point she spoke of some of the disappointments the graduates might soon face. "You applied for an internship at Facebook, but you only got one at Google," she quipped, then added, in a reference to dating app Tinder, "She was clearly the love of your life, but then she swiped left."
"You will almost certainly face more and deeper adversity," she said.
The "Lean In" author also made it a point to focus on females. Opening her speech, she said to cheers: "It's my privilege to be here at Berkeley, which has produced so many Nobel Prize winners, Turing Award winners, astronauts, members of Congress, Olympic gold medalists -- and that's just the women."
Sandberg posted a video of the speech to her Facebook page, but she also stressed that social media, and digital media in general, can only go so far.
"Be there for your family and friends," she told the newly minted graduates. "And I mean in person, not just in a message with a heart emoji."
Amazon@Penn probably doesn't look like any store you've ever visited. The brightly lit space includes no shelves, no standing inventory and no checkout. It's likely debatable the location is even a "store" at all.
Yet this 3,500-square-foot space, which hosted a grand opening Friday at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, serves as another example of Amazon's evolution, as the world's biggest e-commerce company starts building physical locations to draw itself even closer to its millions of customers.
"We see lots of opportunities with this model," Ripley MacDonald, director of Amazon's student programs, said in the store's media center, which includes couches, conference tables and TVs set up with game controllers so students can play "Tetris" on Amazon Prime Video. "We're very excited with the engagement, and we're continuing to invest in it."
Eddie Perez, site manager for Amazon@Penn, explains how his "store" works.
Call it a feeder system for future Amazon customers. Colleges provide a densely populated group of educated, wealthier individuals, just the kinds of folks who are most likely to join Prime. Amazon already tries to pull them in by offering six-month free trials of Prime Student memberships, which are just $49 annually after that. Campus stores could fully convert them before they even graduate.
"They just want to hook you when you're 20," Michael Pachter, a Wedbush analyst, said.
Penn benefits because its mail processing operations have struggled to keep up with the growing piles of e-commerce boxes being delivered to the 25,000-student school. Amazon accounts for 40 percent of those boxes, said Marie Witt, vice president of Penn's business services.
"It's definitely been a strain on the system," she said Friday.
Amazon@Penn serves as a pickup and drop-off hub for students, faculty and workers. They can order anything from textbooks to toothpaste using penn.amazon.com, then pick up more than 3 million eligible items the same day or the next morning from lockers at the location. That's faster than Amazon's typical two-day delivery window for its general Prime members, who pay $99 a year for unlimited free shipping and other perks. The space is staffed with Amazon employees, who can help with customer service issues, receive and package returns, and even show off new Amazon devices.
Amazon created its first college store media center for Amazon@Penn.
Amazon has opened seven campus stores since early 2015, and expects to have 13 total locations open by year's end. At Penn, Amazon is leasing its retail space, but it offers revenue sharing with other partnering schools, such as up to 2 percent of sales to the University of California, Davis.
The company also opened its first bookstore, Amazon Books, in Seattle last year, and there's been plenty of (mostly debunked) chatter that the company could open hundreds more. But for now, the campus stores are the bigger play for the company.
Though you likely won't see a neighborhood Amazon store pop up, the company will require a bigger physical presence if it wants to keep up its huge growth, said Andy Wong, a partner at consultant Kurt Salmon Digital. In large swaths of the country, Best Buy can still get you a TV faster than Amazon. These stores could help change that.
The Amazon college stores could also put pressure on traditional retailers, which have been struggling with consumers' shift online. One chain that could especially feel the pain is Barnes & Noble Education, which runs a college bookstore just five minutes away from Amazon@Penn. Barnes & Noble Education is still a much bigger player on campuses, operating 748 college bookstores nationwide.
"As the market for educational materials continues to undergo unprecedented change, BNED remains focused on delivering innovative, affordable educational content and tools that drive academic success," Max J. Roberts, Barnes & Noble Education's CEO, said in a statement.
Penn undergrads Nayadis Couce, 20, and Greg Lewis, 21 -- both Prime members -- came to the opening to survey the new space and offer their opinions on Amazon. Couce exclaimed, "I love Amazon."
"I hate waiting," Lewis said. "With this, if I order it by a certain time, I can get it the same day, guaranteed. And I love that."
Since pulling in college students early seemed like a sensible idea, one is left to wonder if Amazon might try to go after even younger customers, perhaps opening stores at elementary schools.
"I don't know that I want to specifically speculate with what we do next," MacDonald said, but he added with a laugh that elementary schools aren't a high priority.
Want to test a self-driving car? Google pays $20-an-hour for the gig in Arizona. Meanwhile, Apple steers toward the ride-hailing business by investing in a Chinese rival to Uber.
Want to test a self-driving car? Google is looking to hire some help in Arizona as it grows its fleet of road robots. But Apple is shifting toward another car focus: It invested $1 billion in a ride-hailing app that competes with Uber in China.
CNET Update also covers the controversy swirling at Facebook regarding how stories make it into the Trending box. CEO Mark Zuckerberg released a statement to assure users that the team that curates the highlighted news does not prioritize one viewpoint over another -- be it conservative or liberal political news:
The social network is caught up in a cloud of controversy over how it picks which stories show in the Trending box. CEO Zuckerberg will meet with conservatives to quash accusations of pushing liberal stories.

Workers at Nissan's battery plant in Smyrna, Tennessee.
Charge cycles will be the death of us all. As batteries are continually charged and depleted, its overall capacity begins to diminish, and eventually the battery will need to be replaced. It's one of many issues concerning electric vehicles, but Nissan thinks it might be able to improve battery capacity by using silicon.
According to research done by a team including Nissan Motor Company, Nissan Arc and a number of Japanese research institutions, this new breakthrough involves amorphous silicon monoxide (SiO), which can carry more lithium ions than traditional carbon-based materials, while proving resistant to the deterioration that happens during charging cycles.
This is kind of important in, you know, a lithium ion battery, like the ones underpinning some electric vehicles and a wide variety of consumer electrionics. By holding more lithium ions, battery capacity will rise, which results in greater range for electric vehicles. Of course, there's loads of research and development that needs to happen before a breakthrough in the lab becomes a breakthrough on the road, but it's good to see nevertheless.
If you're interested in a more thorough breakdown of the science behind this, you can check out the full scholarly article, "Atomic-scale disproportionation in amorphous silicon monoxide," in Nature Communications.
Uber and Lyft said "see ya!" to Austin, Texas, after its citizens rejected a proposition exempting the companies from fingerprinting their drivers. But where those companies saw untenable regulation, a startup saw a big market for its services.
That startup is Fasten, a ride-hailing app that on Friday said it's launching in Austin as soon as possible. Fasten CEO Kirill Evdakov said the company, which now offers service only in Boston, hadn't planned to go live in Austin just yet, but will speed up its timeline.
"We're reaching out to the drivers of Austin and signing them up as they come. This is happening quickly so our app will be available to riders shortly," Evdakov said in a blog post. The company will have to fingerprint its drivers to comply with Austin's requirements.
Evdakov also had some tough words for his competitors.
"Real competition benefits everyone, encourages innovation, and pushes us forward -- together," Evdakov said. "One of the downsides of monopolies and duopolies is their ability to control the market, and in Austin's case, the market was steered against what people wanted."
Lyft and Uber did not respond to requests for comment.
Are there too many war games? Jeff and Russ the latest announcements and leaks of the two major players in the war-game scene and why the genre might be growing a little long in the tooth. Also, they'll talk about which generation they identify with and why Russ recently had to call 9-1-1.

Download today's podcast
Subscribe to our wonderful program:
iTunes (MP3) | RSS (MP3)
Russ's new podcast: The West Wing History Class
Watch Russ play DOOM

Follow everyone on Twitter!


File any hateful or insightful comments at our show thread over at our subreddit:  	 	reddit.com/r/the404.

We're not sure what emoticon this elicits, but social media giant Facebook has turned to the judiciary to beef up its in-house legal team.
Paul S. Grewal, a US magistrate judge who's presided over several big intellectual property cases in San Jose, California, has accepted a presumably much more lucrative position to oversee global litigation at Facebook.
"Paul has presided over hundreds of cases as Magistrate Judge in the Northern District of California, and has earned a reputation as a thoughtful and knowledgeable jurist with deep expertise in areas that are critically important to our company and our industry," Colin Stretch, Facebook's general counsel, said in a statement. "We look forward to having him on our team."

Earvin 'Magic' Johnson Jr. joined Square's board last summer.
NBA hall of famer Earvin "Magic" Johnson Jr., who made millions in business after his basketball career, has resigned from the board of directors of mobile payments company Square, leaving less than a year after he joined.
Johnson has been raising capital for a new venture focused on US infrastructure upgrades. He funded the company more quickly than he thought he would, requiring him to devote more time to it, according to a letter resignation letter he sent to CEO Jack Dorsey this week.
"Initially, I thought it would take some time to raise capital; however, my team and I were fortunate that the first investor we approached invested $1 billion," Johnson wrote. "Within the 1st quarter of 2016, we have over $1.3 billion in our newly formed fund that will require a significant and unwavering time commitment from me as I work to secure contracts around the country."
In a statement, Dorsey said of Johnson's departure: "Earvin's passion for and commitment to creating economic opportunity will continue to inspire our work. I am thankful for his time on our Board and wish him success on his new projects."
Paul Deighton, the former Goldman Sachs partner and Commercial Secretary to the Treasury of the United Kingdom, takes Johnson's place on the board.
Johnson, a five-time NBA champion with the Los Angeles Lakers in the 1980s, is regarded for his astute business acumen. He's the CEO of Magic Johnson Enterprises (MJE), a billion-dollar corporation he started nearly three decades ago while still playing ball.
The basketball legend has owned movie theaters nationwide and more than 100 Starbucks Coffee franchises, as well as a minority stake in the Lakers. Johnson sold his interests in Starbucks and the Lakers, though he still has a prominent presence with the team, in 2010 for a reported $100 million. Johnson's other business interests include real estate, a TV network, a program that helps high schoolers get diplomas and providing health care for HIV/AIDS patients. (Johnson was diagnosed with HIV in 1991.)
In 2012, Johnson and the investment firm Guggenheim Partners bought the storied Los Angeles Dodgers baseball team and other team-related entities for a record $2.15 billion, the most for a North American sports franchise. He also owns a stake in the WNBA's Los Angeles Sparks and a new Major League Soccer team also based in LA
Updated at 11:45 a.m. PT: with further information about Johnson.
That's a face that says, "If you rebuild me, I will definitely enslave you."
The EU isn't happy about Three and O2's proposed mobile merger, so it's blocked a deal that would have created a new market leader in the UK.
To discuss the news, Katie Collins joins me, Luke Westaway, ringleader of the macabre circus that is the nation's greatest tech podcast. We're also chatting enthusiastically about an effort to rebuild one of the world's first robots, and two cheap new gadgets for the UK -- the EE Jay tablet and Vodafone's Smart Prime 7.
We're psyched to learn that "Breaking Bad" star Bryan Cranston is starring in a new sci-fi show based on the stories of Philip K Dick, and Katie explains why rose gold gadgets are everywhere. We've also got a teasing snippet of CNET's behind-the-scenes look at Broadway hit "Aladdin" -- but can Katie prove her Disney chops in a surprise quiz on the 1992 animated classic of the same name?
We're always hungry for your feedback, so pop your thoughts in the comments below or drop us a line at cnetukpodcast [at] cbsi.com. Oh, and if you've enjoyed the show, why not leave us a glowing review on iTunes? Hit play and enjoy.
Having trouble with the audio player? Try this link.
Subscribe to the CNET UK podcast:
Subscribe in iTunes
iTunes (MP3)
Use this RSS feed to subscribe in your podcast app
RSS (MP3)
CNET meets with "Aladdin" Production Stage Manager Jimmie Lee Smith, who reveals some of the behind-the-scenes tech that makes the show sparkle.
Apparently, a 40GB data plan isn't enough to move the needle anymore.
To sweeten the deal on its "Better Choice XXL" plan, Sprint is now throwing in a free 12-month subscription to Amazon Prime. The plan -- dubbed "Amazon Better Choice XXL," of course -- is open to new and existing Amazon customers.
Prime, of course, is Amazon's signature $99 annual service plan that offers free two-day shipping, video streaming of thousands of free movies and TV show, an all-you-can eat music plan and a selection of free e-books -- and that's just for starters. (CNET's David Katzmaier recently called it "the best deal ever.")
Interested? Check out the full details of the Sprint plan at the company's website.
Want to test a self-driving car? Google pays $20-an-hour for the gig in Arizona. Meanwhile, Apple steers toward the ride-hailing business by investing in a Chinese rival to Uber.
Google promises its self-driving cars will liberate us from the tedium of driving. But before that idyllic day arrives, some poor souls will have to spend a lot of time sitting in self-driving cars gathering data so Google can iron out the bugs.
Fortunately, they'll get paid -- $20 an hour, according to the Arizona Republic. A Google job ad for drivers in Phoenix, the fourth and newest area where Google is testing self-driving cars, says the company wants people who'll drive for 30 to 40 hours a week.
It won't be relaxed, though. Employees must be able to type 40 words per minute and will have to "operate comfortably in a fast-paced environment, sometimes managing up to four communication channels simultaneously via various high- and low-tech mediums." And no letting your attention drift away from the car's computer systems.
Presidential candidate Donald Trump attacks Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos on Fox News.
In his newest attack on Jeff Bezos, presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump says the Amazon chief executive and Washington Post owner has "a huge antitrust problem."
Trump has taken on Bezos before, but on Fox News' "Hannity" show on Thursday he accused Bezos of anticompetitive business practices. The attack on one of the technology industry's biggest powers comes as Post investigative reporters dig into Trump's past for a forthcoming book.
"He's got a huge antitrust problem because he's controlling so much. He bought the Washington Post for practically nothing. He's using it as a tool for political power against me and other people. We can't let him get away with it," Trump said. "Amazon is getting away with murder, tax-wise. He's using the Washington Post for power so that the politicians in Washington don't tax Amazon like they should be taxed."
Amazon and the Washington Post didn't immediately respond to requests for comment.
Taking place in Shanghai, CES Asia 2016 showcases the best tech from China and Asia and here's what we found cool.
With every tech company in the world desperate to break into China, it's no surprise that CES organiser the Consumer Technology Association is trying to make a splash.
Its second CES Asia trade show here in Shanghai is almost over, and it was a big improvement on last year. It's now twice the size, with four halls instead of two, and host to much more interesting tech.
There were plenty of fun products that stood out this time. Take, for example, the Cowa Robot suitcase. It follows you around, avoids obstacles and has built-in GPS that lets it automatically return to you if lost (though you're out of luck if someone steals it).
If electronic suitcases don't excite you, there's the Plen2 robot -- which I found adorable. It comes either preassembled or ready for assembly and can be programmed to do a variety of things, including mirroring your actions through the Microsoft Kinect camera.
The adorable ball-kicking Plen2 robots in action.
But entertaining novelties aside, CES Asia is too China-centric for its own good. And while I did find a sprinkling of vendors from around Asia, the vast majority are Chinese. Given that exhibitors are hoping for local retailers to make orders, that makes sense. If the trade show wants to live up to the CES name, however, it'll have to broaden its cultural appeal. There's a large contingent of overseas visitors here too, and there should be more English material for them.
Even though I (barely) speak the language, there were times when I skipped booths because all the content there was Mandarin-only. Unless the product sold itself, the language gap was often too big for me to invest the time to understand it. I'd bet foreign attendees would have even less of a chance.
Another thing I noticed was vendors repeating announcements from the Las Vegas CES in January. OK, it gives Chinese exhibitors who weren't noticed the first time around a second chance to shine. But that also means there's less to report, which means the trade show, and the products themselves, gain less traction.
The show has great potential. According to numbers revealed by CTA president Gary Shapiro at the CES Asia keynote, China is one of the fastest growing markets in the world, with a $266 billion consumer tech market in 2015 that is expected to grow another 3 percent this year. Furthermore, Asia still has plenty of growth potential, especially in developing markets such as Vietnam and Indonesia.
CES Asia stands as a gateway to these huge markets, and next year will hopefully bring more new, interesting tech and exhibitors. If the CTA can get bigger Chinese vendors to make major announcements, the show is likely to surpass, say, the upcoming Computex show in Taipei.
I'll be here next year to see if that's the case.
The CEA takes its technology tradeshow to Shanghai.
How important is China to Apple? The company just invested $1 billion in Didi Chuxing, Uber's main rival in China, in part to better understand the country's market.
"We are making the investment for a number of strategic reasons, including a chance to learn more about certain segments of the China market," Apple CEO Tim Cook told Reuters. "Of course, we believe it will deliver a strong return for our invested capital over time as well."
Though Uber has tried to compete, Didi Chuxing, formerly known as Didi Kuaidi, dominates the ride-sharing industry in China. Worth around $25 billion, the company owns roughly 80 percent of the market in China. And it has partnered with Uber rival Lyft in the US, letting Chinese riders hail a Lyft car using the Didi app.
Meanwhile, Apple, which last year made a profit of $53 billion, is trying to bolster its position in the country, currently the world's biggest smartphone market.
"China is one of the most important markets in the world for Apple," Drexel Hamilton analyst Brian White said. The new partnership "represents an attractive investment, enhances the Apple ecosystem, opens up new opportunities for Apple Pay, offers the opportunities to learn more about the Chinese consumer, shows support for the country and provides Apple with a potential customer in the future for an 'Apple Car.'"
Want to test a self-driving car? Google pays $20-an-hour for the gig in Arizona. Meanwhile, Apple steers toward the ride-hailing business by investing in a Chinese rival to Uber.
Many big tech companies, like Google and Samsung, operate venture arms that invest in startups, but Apple has been the exception. It tends to buy companies outright or simply partner with them instead of investing. And most of its acquisitions are small. The biggest in Apple's history was its $3.2 billion purchase of Beats, a headphone maker and streaming music provider, two years ago.
Investing in Didi gives Apple a stronger foothold in the Chinese market.
The Cupertino, California, company has been expanding quickly in the region, with a 13 percent market share in 2015's fourth quarter, according to IDC Research. But it's also hit some roadblocks as of late, with the Chinese government last month shutting down Apple's iTunes movie and book services there after seven months of operation.
In its quarterly reports with investors, Apple revealed a revenue drop that could signal an end to its growth trend year over year.
Also in April, Apple reported its first-ever drop in iPhone sales, driven in part by a 26 percent fall in sales in Greater China to $12.5 billion. China had been one of Apple's fastest growing markets, and the weakness there has been worrisome.
"Apple's investment in Didi highlights the need to work with Chinese players for Apple to strengthen its position in China," IHS Technology analyst Jack Kent said.
Apple didn't provide a comment about the Didi investment, but in Didi's press release Cook said the Chinese company "exemplifies the innovation taking place in the iOS developer community in China. We are extremely impressed by the business they've built and their excellent leadership team, and we look forward to supporting them as they grow."
Apple has been making moves into the auto industry for some time. The company's CarPlay software makes your iPhone talk to your automobile, letting you do things like get directions, make calls and listen to music from your car's built-in display. And the company has been experimenting with self-driving cars, with reports saying it could sell its own vehicle in 2019.
Apple's not the only company forming partnerships in the auto sector. General Motors recently dumped a bunch of money into Lyft, and while Uber has not yet taken on any industry suitors, other automakers aren't exactly discounting the growth of the sharing economy.
In fact, a number of automakers have started up car-sharing services of their own, which is similar to ride sharing, except a central authority retains ownership of the vehicles. BMW operates ReachNow in Seattle, GM has Maven, and Daimler's making waves with Car2Go.
Car sharing is still going through its teething phase. In response to a request for mandatory driver fingerprinting and expanded background checks, both Uber and Lyft have cancelled their services in downtown Austin, Texas. While the companies have been dealt blows in some markets, they continue to expand around the world.
Updated at 10 a.m. PT with additional background and analyst comments.
All the latest Apple news, featuring developments on the iPhone, iPad, Macbooks, OS X and much more.
Theranos CEO Elizabeth Holmes is losing her chief operating officer as they both face possible bans from the blood-testing business.
Embattled blood-testing firm Theranos said Thursday that Sunny Balwani, the company's chief operating officer, is stepping down and retiring.
Balwani, 50, along with Theranos founder and CEO Elizabeth Holmes, faces the possibility of a two-year ban from the blood-testing business if the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the federal agency that oversees clinical labs, decides to shut down the company. Theranos has been under scrutiny since a Journal report in October that suggested its blood-testing devices were flawed, leading to questions regarding their accuracy.
In April, Federal prosecutors and the US Securities and Exchange Commission launched criminal and civil investigations into whether Theranos misled investors about the state of its product.
"I am deeply grateful for the opportunity to contribute to Theranos' mission to make health care accessible through its technology and products," Balwani said in a statement. "I will continue to be the company's biggest advocate and look forward to seeing Theranos' innovations reach the world."
A Theranos representative said Balwani's departure was unrelated to the investigations.
Another report indicates Google is cooking up its own voice-controlled smart home hub, just like Amazon's Echo. But don't count on seeing it in action at Google I/O.
It would make sense for Google to create its own version of the Amazon Echo smart speaker. Recode reports that the company has been working on a voice-controlled hub for the home. This new hub could take the form of an updated OnHub Router, or maybe it'll find a place in the Nest family of products. Don't count on it being ready in time for next week's Google I/O Developer's Conference. (But that doesn't stop us from thinking about names to call Google's assistant.)
Meanwhile, Google is making its Android users feel left out with a new keyboard app it just released on the iPhone. The Gboard app (no, not this Gboard) packs multiple search tools inside the keyboard, so you don't have to jump between apps while chatting. Keeping you in the world of Google may also be why the YouTube app is rolling out its own messenger service:
There's no need to bounce between apps. Google's new iOS keyboard is a handy way to share search results, animated GIFs, YouTube videos and more in a chat.
CNET Update delivers the tech news you need in under 3 minutes. Watch Bridget Carey every afternoon for a breakdown of the big stories, hot devices, new apps and what's ahead. Subscribe to the podcast via the links below.

Disney's research arm is working on robots that can mimic the moves of humans.
That Mickey Mouse greeting you at Disney World may one day contain a robot instead of a very petite person.
Disney Research, an international network of research labs to "push the scientific and technological forefront of innovation" at the company, is working on what it calls a "hybrid hydrostatic transmission and human-safe haptic telepresence robot." That's a very wordy way to say the robot essentially mimics the moves of its puppet master, an operator viewing everything through the eyes (i.e. cameras) of the robot.
"The operator is visually immersed in the robot's physical workspace," the researchers wrote in a technical paper for the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation on May 16.

Cameras mounted on the robot, which is wearing a "Jimmy" nametag, stream video to an operator who's wearing a head-mounted display (which appears to be an Oculus virtual reality headset). The operator's motions are mimicked by the robot, and the haptics feedback, which is sort of like the iPhone's 3D Touch, allows the operator to almost feel what the robot is feeling. This lets the robot handle delicate objects, carry out precise motion and interact with humans.
A video released by Disney shows the robot playing a xylophone, picking up and then cracking an egg, threading string through the eye of a needle, patting a girl's cheeks and playing catch with a balloon.
"The current hydraulic robot offers incredibly smooth and fast motion, while maintaining backdrivability and bidirectional force reflection, allowing safe interaction with people, and the handling of delicate objects," the researchers  added.
Disney didn't immediately respond to a request for more information. It's pretty safe to assume we won't see these robots in Disney theme parks anytime soon, but it's not crazy to imagine them rolling out in Disney World one day.
This article also appears in Spanish. Read: Disney trabaja en robots que pueden imitar los movimientos de la gente
Where we're going, we don't need roads.
The statistics involved in Hyperloop One's high-speed transportation technology are quite staggering. Zero to 53 mph in a second. A potential trip from San Francisco to Los Angeles in 30 minutes, instead of 6 hours.
After the company on Wednesday completed the first test of its propulsion system, there's a lot of excitement around this new mode of transportation. But, considering high costs and safety concerns, there's still skepticism the concept will ever happen.
We also discuss Google's rumored plans for an Amazon Echo competitor, code-named Chirp, and the search giant's new Gboard keyboard for Apple's mobile devices.
The 3:59 gives you bite-size news and analysis about the top stories of the day, brought to you by CNET Executive Editor Roger Cheng, Senior Writer Ben Fox Rubin and Producer Bryan VanGelder.
iTunes | Google Play Music | FeedBurner | SoundCloud | TuneIn Radio
Moonwalking on the Katwalk.
Showing off its new VR body rig at CES Asia in Shanghai is Kat VR's cutely named Katwalk. Wearing the HTC Vive VR headset, the Katwalk VR system suspends you from a rig. Special shoes -- equipped with accelerometers -- track you as you slip and slide across its pedestal, your physical movement translating into virtual reality movement.
Walking seems smooth and you won't accidentally trip and fall, and the rig is also configured to detect jumps.
The Hangzhou-based company told me that it the Katwalk will go on sale by the end of July, but only in China and to businesses. The company envisions that its Katwalk system will be used for gaming at arcades, touring virtual versions of new homes, online shopping or even education.
It won't be cheap though: The entire rig, including the computer, software and games, will sell for a minimum of 50,000 yuan, which converts to a cool $9,200, £6,370 or AU$12,550. While it's definitely not affordable, perhaps a consumer version will appear in the future.
The CEA takes its technology tradeshow to Shanghai.
Open-air testing for the high-speed Hyperloop takes place in Sin City, bringing us one step closer to Elon Musk's vision.
Imagine you live in San Francisco. Now imagine that your partner lives roughly 500 miles away in San Diego and you work in the next state over in Las Vegas. Sounds like a good way to waste a lot of time traveling, doesn't it?
Concern over these kinds of distances will be a thing of the past if Hyperloop One has anything to say about it.
On Wednesday, Hyperloop One showed off its propulsion system during an  open-air test just outside Las Vegas. The propulsion system shot a  metal sled along a short track at 2.4 Gs, the rough equivalent of  accelerating from zero to 53 miles per hour in one second.
Hyperloop One is one company trying to bring to life the futuristic transportation idea of Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk, which was first detailed in 2013.  Here's how the company envisions a hyperloop network: A series of tubes will connect metropolitan areas. Anywhere from 10 to 30 passengers will load into a pod located inside a given tube. The tube is depressurized to as close to a perfect vacuum as possible, eliminating most air resistance. Using the power of magnets, the pods will reach speeds of up to 700 miles per hour.
The open-air sled at the Hyperloop One test track.

Essentially, one set of magnets will constantly be pushing away from each other, while another set will be pulling toward each other, allowing the pod to accelerate from a standstill to 60 miles per hour in about 1 second.
While those kinds of G-forces are just fine for cargo, though, humans require a bit more subtlety. Hyperloop One engineers think any pods with passengers will accelerate at the same rate as a private plane, allowing those aboard to read, drink their coffee or have a conversation during trips.
Hyperloop One hopes to be moving cargo as soon as 2019 and predicts that it will be ready  for passengers by 2021. It expects to do a full-scale test of its system late in 2016.
The company recently received over $80 million dollars in a second round of funding and also launched the Hyperloop One Global Challenge, a competition among individuals, companies and governments to be the first to host a hyperloop network. Hyperloop One provides the technology; the competitors submit a comprehensive case for how that technology should be used in their location.
The deadline for entry is September 15, 2016, with the winner being announced in March 2017.
Walmart says the PIN is mightier than the pen. Visa begs to differ.
Walmart and Visa are going to war over your PIN.
On Tuesday, the giant retailer filed a lawsuit against Visa, complaining the financial services company won't let it require PINs on transactions made with chip-enabled debit cards. Instead, Visa wants customers to have the choice of using signatures, which Walmart says are less secure.
"PIN is the only truly secure form of cardholder verification in the marketplace today, and it offers superior security to our customers," Walmart said in an emailed statement. "This suit is about protecting our customers' bank accounts when they use their debit cards at Walmart."
Visa didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
The dispute comes as retailers and consumers adjust to new chip-enabled cards, which are inserted into newer readers but swiped at older ones. Not all retailers have made the transition to the new technology, creating confusion among customers.
No matter how the suit ends, Walmart will still sell you a purple unicorn helmet, a Duck Dynasty plush and a pair of cast-iron penguin bottle openers.
The UK mobile market is relatively good for consumers, but the EU worries another big merger could change that.
Competition watchdogs have blocked a proposed merger between two of the UK's major mobile companies, potentially signalling an end to several years of upheaval in the British phone market.
The proposed merger of O2, owned by Telefónica, and Three, owned by Hutchison, would have created a new market leader.
But after a spate of recent mergers and acquisitions, EU competition authorities "have said 'enough is enough'," according to industry expert Professor John Colley of Warwick Business School.
Britain's phone market has drastically transformed in the past few years. Of the major players, T-Mobile merged with Orange to become EE, which has in turn been swallowed up by BT. Although a range of mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs) keep prices relatively low in the UK, the proposed merger of Three with O2 would have further reduced the number of major networks that operate their own infrastructure.
"The evidence from markets elsewhere shows that three players results in higher prices for consumers compared to four," said Professor Colley. "Competition reduces, and the consumer pays the price for that."
Hutchison is "deeply disappointed" by the decision, according to a spokesperson, and will consider an appeal. The company is also seeking clearance from the European Commission for a proposed merger between Three Italia and rival Italian carrier Wind.
Back in the UK, an O2 spokesperson stressed that it's business as usual after the decision. "Our customers are our priority and we will continue to differentiate, compete fiercely and remain successful, long into the future," they said in a statement.
Indian PM Narendra Modi has made broadening Internet access in the country one of his priorities.
The Indian government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has grown increasingly focused on giving more people access to the Internet, but the majority of the country's citizens are still offline.
Nearly 1 billion people in India are yet to connect to the Internet, according to a World Bank report. As of 2014,  India's population was estimated to be around 1.3 billion, according to data from the World Bank and the US' Census Bureau.
The report added that the Internet adoption rate was high in government firms, but low for small and medium-sized businesses.
With a wider adoption of the Internet, the World Bank says that India could see a major push in growth, job creation and general improvements in public services.
The report comes months after India's telecoms regulator banned Free Basics, Facebook's controversial initiative, which aims to bring affordable access to select Internet services to less developed countries. At the time, privacy advocates in the country condemned Free Basics, noting that it was violating Net neutrality, the principle of equal access to all types of content and services on the Internet.
That's not to say that the Indian government hasn't done anything to bring connectivity to more people. In 2011, the government initiated the National Optical Fibre Network project to provide broadband connectivity to more than 200,000 villages.
Though India is the country with the greatest percentage of its population unconnected to the Web, the World Bank report states that it still has the third largest number of  connected users in the world. It's beaten only by China and the US.
The company formerly known as Hyperloop Technologies is now called Hyperloop One.
On Tuesday, the company marked its progress toward building a full-scale hyperloop with the unexpected moniker switch. The name change comes just before Hyperloop One, which received $80 million in a second round of funding, readies to showcase its propulsion system in a open-air test just outside of Las Vegas on Wednesday.
Hyperloop One's testing site outside of Las Vegas, Nevada.
Hyperloop technology, which proposes using passengers pods pushed at nearly the speed of sound, was thrust into the public spotlight when Tesla's Elon Musk issued a 58-page report on its potential in August 2013. Unfortunately, the guy has been too busy to dedicate time to the project.
Don't confuse Hyperloop One with its competitor, Hyperloop Transportation Technologies.
HTT is expected to begin construction of a full-scale track across a 5-mile section of California's Central Valley in the near future. The company will use passive magnetic levitation technology as a propulsion system.
Folks following hyperloop technology have been expecting one to connect Los Angeles and San Francisco, reducing a six-hour drive to a mere 30 minutes. Still, the technology will debut in Europe first. Feasibility studies are currently underway in Sweden, Finland and Switzerland.
Watch the animation demonstrating how the company's trains might work.
Hyperloop One is also hoping to streamline cargo transportation between the ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles.
Think you can help make the hyperloop a reality? Individuals, companies and governments can compete in the Hyperloop One Global Challenge by designing transportation systems that use Hyperloop One technology. No word on what the prize is, but other science competitions like the Breakthrough Prize award millions of dollars annually.
Deadline for entry is September 15, 2016, with the winner being announced in March 2017.
Online retailer Jet.com has launched a pilot program delivering perishable groceries to some customers, going up against rivals like Peapod, Fresh Direct and Amazon's Fresh service.
The company will deliver fresh food such as milk, eggs and produce to customers in parts of New York City, Connecticut and Pennsylvania as well as New Jersey and Washington, DC, Jet.com said Tuesday. Orders received by noon Monday through Friday will be delivered the following day. For orders of more than $35, there's no delivery charge during the test program. Recode reported the news earlier today.
Jet.com, a Hoboken, New Jersey, startup, is a relative newcomer to the online retail world. It launched its site in July. As of December, it had raised more than $700 million.
The chairman of the US Senate's commerce committee is seeking answers from Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg over claims the social network suppressed conservative issues in its trending topics feature.
Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) sent a letter to Zuckerberg on Tuesday, a day after a Gizmodo report cited anonymous sources who said the social network "routinely suppressed news stories of interest to conservative readers."
"Facebook must answer these serious allegations and hold those responsible to account if there has been political bias in the dissemination of trending news," Thune said in a statement. "Any attempt by a neutral and inclusive social media platform to censor or manipulate political discussion is an abuse of trust and inconsistent with the values of an open Internet."
Facebook denied the allegations Monday.
"We have in place strict guidelines for our trending topic reviewers as they audit topics surfaced algorithmically: reviewers are required to accept topics that reflect real world events, and are instructed to disregard junk or duplicate topics, hoaxes or subjects with insufficient sources," Tom Stocky, vice president of search, said in a Facebook post Monday.
The company said in a statement Tuesday that its guidelines for trending topics "require the review team members to allow all points of view."
"We have seen allegations that people did not honor the intent of those guidelines," a Facebook spokesperson said. "Although the allegations are anonymous, we take them seriously. We are continuing to investigate whether any violations took place."
The company also said it will continue to review its trending topics practices. "If we find they are inadequate, we will take immediate steps to fix them," the spokesperson said.
The senator is asking for a response no later than May 24. You can read Thune's letter in full here. Facebook said it looks forward to addressing his questions.
Update, 2:35 p.m. PT: Added comments from a Facebook representative.
Uber drivers now have an organization in New York to represent their interests. Just don't call it a union.
The ride-hailing company unveiled an agreement Tuesday with the International Association of Machinists establishing the Independent Drivers Guild.
The guild is the first organization of its kind to receive the official blessing of Uber, although a number of unsanctioned organizations exist already.
The move is seen as an attempt by Uber to stem concerns about its labor model, which treats drivers as independent contractors, with fewer rights than employees. The Guild isn't a true union -- its members will still be contractors -- but members will receive representation from guild officials, and other benefits like insurance discounts.
On the other hand, members will not be able to negotiate over a contract that includes fares, benefits and protections. Those determinations will still be made by Uber alone.
Uber did not immediately reply to a request for comment. Uber advisor David Plouffe told The New York Times that the company is not seeking to replicate the guild area outside of New York, which has a large number of full-time Uber drivers.
Web publishing technology, such as this visual explanation of computer programming by Mike Bostock, could make e-books more interactive.
For all the supposed disruption that e-books brought to the publishing industry, the digital versions look still look an awful lot like the paper ones you could have bought a century ago.
Nighttime orange text to avoid sleep disturbance is nice, but digital text on a tablet is basically the same as ink text on paper. Comic books and graphic novels go a bit farther. Still, most e-books fall far short of the creativity shown in paper with the "Little Lamb" finger puppet book or Maurice Sendak's "Mommy?" pop-up book.
E-books could become much more dynamic and interactive, though. That's because two groups -- the World Wide Web Consortium  (W3C) and the International Digital Publishing Forum (IDPF) -- are trying to join forces. The first advances and standardizes the technology underpinning the Web; the second the Epub format used to package e-books. In a statement Tuesday, Web creator and W3C leader Tim Berners-Lee said the planned merger would "create a rich media environment for digital publishing."
The current Epub 3.0 standard already uses Web technologies, but e-books remain a separate domain from the Web. The new Portable Web Publications effort would erase the distinction. That would make it easier to publish a single Web document that's conveniently separated into multiple chapters, lets you flip from page to page, and better handles math formulas in textbooks.
But the more exciting opportunities would be encouraging authors to draw on the Web's power: enlivening books with video, audio and photos; enriching them with links to outside sources like footnotes on steroids; and even adding running software like the dynamic illustrations in Mike Bostock's guide to visualizing various computer algorithms.
When you're flipping pages as fast as possible through the latest thriller or bodice-ripper, you may not want more than pages of text. That's fine. But so many books, especially for kids, education and non-fiction, could benefit from broader technical horizons.
And ideally, a Web-based e-book would have a better shelf life, so to speak, than an app version of a book like "A New Kind of Science," not updated since 2014, or "The Fantastic Flying Books of Mr. Morris Lessmore," not updated since 2015 and not even available for Android phones or tablets. After all, the Web has a good reputation for longevity and reaches just about any computing device.
Uber has expanded its wheelchair-friendly fleet to London, giving disabled customers the power to call a car that features a rear-entry ramp, winch and restraints.
The popular cab-calling app, which has proved controversial in the UK, inciting protests from traditional black cabs, has already brought its wheelchair-accessible service, dubbed UberWAV, to more than 10 US cities including Los Angeles, Chicago and Washington. Toronto and Sydney are also covered. UberWAV carries the same cost UberX, and can now be booked across Greater London.
Uber says that UberWAV drivers will have "received Disability Equality Training from Transport for All, and Inclusion London."
In the same statement, Uber said, "We will be working hard to keep waiting times as low as possible as the service expands but in the first few weeks we expect average wait times of around 25 mins in zones 1-2 and 40 mins in zones 3-4."
Did you think this list was based on what you and your friends thought was important? That may not be true.
We already know Facebook manipulates its algorithms to test our emotions and encourage us to vote. Now it seems CEO Mark Zuckerberg and his team may have tried to affect our politics as well.
Two reports from the tech blog Gizmodo allege that Facebook's trending topics list, which sits at the top right of its website and is one of the most high-profile pieces of real estate on the Internet, may have become a tool for employees to wield their political opinions.
Gizmodo claims that Facebook's "news curators," as they're called internally, were told to suppress news stories from politically conservative news outlets. That meant stories from outlets like Breitbart News and The Washington Examiner were excluded or demoted in the trending topics list, in preference for more traditional publications like The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal. Some stories weren't allowed to appear in the list either, Gizmodo alleges, citing unnamed former news curators, including pieces about key conservative commentators and politicians such as Mitt Romney, the former Republican candidate for US president.
Facebook said it takes the allegations "very seriously," and added it has "rigorous guidelines in place for the review team to ensure consistency and neutrality." The company didn't have an immediate comment about Gizmodo's allegations. But in a statement issued late Monday, Facebook vice president of search Tom Stocky said the company had "found no evidence that the anonymous allegations are true."
The questions surrounding Facebook's alleged behavior strike at a growing concern over the company's influence throughout the globe and how its employees wield it. In this case, Facebook says employees have a hand in writing descriptions for trending topics, but how it selects "trending" news was assumed to be based upon computer algorithms, not the company's political whims.
Facebook is used by more than 1.65 billion people each month, making its population larger than any country on Earth. It's also become a political and media powerhouse, serving as a go-to place where governments and politicians can connect with citizens. And it's a key outlet for news organizations to popularize their stories.
When employees manipulate a user's news feeds to see how they'll react emotionally or to encourage us all to vote, it raises doubt about whether we can trust Facebook as a neutral source for connecting people, "to share and make the world more open and connected."
Now, if Gizmodo is right, it appears some employees allowed their own biases to influence not only what news Facebook's users saw, but also how important each item was.
Journalism experts and media commentators are crying foul. Facebook's trending topics list was assumed to be a list of the most popular things on Facebook, they say, not a curated list of what Facebook's employees think is relevant.
"With Facebook's trending stories, we had every right to think that this represented the wisdom of the crowd," said Dan Kennedy, an associate professor of journalism at Northeastern University.
Facebook's site even said as much, describing its trending topics list as "a list of topics and hashtags that have recently spiked in popularity on Facebook." The list is supposedly influenced by Pages you've liked, your location and what's trending across Facebook, but it doesn't say employees have a hand in selecting topics.
Until he'd heard the allegations of misconduct, Kennedy assumed the list was controlled by an algorithm, like the "most e-mailed" list of stories showcased on many news sites. The mistake the Internet giant may have made, he said, is it wasn't forthright about how stories and topics make the list. "If they just called it 'editor's picks,' there'd be no problem."
All this drama likely won't stop people from using Facebook's service, said Rory O'Connor, an adjunct professor at Stony Brook University's School of Journalism. But Zuckerberg & Co. should fess up to its mistake anyway, just as they did after word went out two years ago about how they were toying with our emotions.
But getting an admission, or apology, doesn't really change much, added O'Connor. "It's a big mistake and it's a huge problem, but what can we do about it? Not much."
Updated at 10:50 p.m. PT with Facebook denial.
Twitter doesn't want spy agencies accessing the same tools that journalists can use.
Watch CNET Update below to learn why the network is barring the US government from accessing the analytics tool Dataminr. And over at Facebook, the network adds a "thankful" reaction, offers new ways to discover groups, and wins a trademark battle against a company that may have made a "Face Book" drink. Ahhh, oversharing refreshment:
The social network is banning US spy agencies from accessing an analytics service used by news agencies. Meanwhile, Facebook wins a trademark battle in China. Sorry, you won't be able to taste "Face Book" the drink.
CNET Update delivers the tech news you need in under 3 minutes. Watch Bridget Carey every afternoon for a breakdown of the big stories, hot devices, new apps and what's ahead. Subscribe to the podcast via the links below.

A judge tosses a lawsuit calling Sumner Redstone's mental competency into question.
The court case over media mogul Sumner Redstone's mental competency is reportedly closed.
A California judge on Monday dismissed the case brought by former caregiver and housemate Manuela Herzer, who argued that Redstone was incompetent last fall when he decided to evict her and excise her from his will, according to The Wall Street Journal.
Redstone is a majority shareholder in Viacom and CBS Corp., CNET's parent company.
The 92-year-old's health has been called to question due to his absence from major earnings calls and and reported inability to articulate his thoughts. Redstone's daughter, Shari Redstone, who serves as the current vice chair of CBS and Viacom, now oversees her father's care, according to the Journal.
Judge David Cowan of Los Angeles Superior Court dismissed the competency suit with prejudice, which means Herzer can't refile the claim.
The Panama Papers helped reveal a global web of offshore wealth.
An important piece of the Panama Papers will now be in the hands of the public. The International Consortium of Investigative Journalists on Monday was set to release a searchable database including information on more than 200,000 offshore entities mentioned in the papers. The Panama Papers contain more than 11.5 million leaked files, exposing the names behind many offshore businesses and accounts. It's important to note, though, that there are many legal reasons for having such accounts.
On today's podcast, we also talk about Twitter's move to cut off US intelligence agencies from using some of its analytics services.
The 3:59 gives you bite-size news and analysis about the top stories of the day, brought to you by CNET Executive Editor Roger Cheng (currently on parental leave), Senior Writer Ben Fox Rubin and Producer Bryan VanGelder.
iTunes | Google Play Music | FeedBurner | SoundCloud | TuneIn Radio
Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella runs a company that's made more than $1 trillion over time.
Microsoft isn't the sexiest name in tech, but with profit that tops Google, Amazon and even Apple, who cares?
The computing and gaming titan quietly let its milestone of $1 trillion in all-time revenue come and go without a peep. But tech consultant Jeff Reifman noticed it while nosing around the company's state tax breaks.
Microsoft shares its place in the trillion-dollar-club with Apple. But while Apple is known for making monster profits off devices like the iPhone and MacBook, it's Microsoft that ultimately takes the profit prize, according to Reifman's calculations: $265.2 billion to Apple's $261.6 billion.
Google has raked in $96.3 billion over time. Amazon, which Reifman says has earned $545 billion, trails on profit with $3.31 billion.
As far as we're concerned, it's time for stereotypically stodgy Microsoft to break out the rum punch.
It should be noted, however, that Microsoft, founded in 1975, is the oldest of the companies. Apple was founded in 1976; Google in 1998; and Amazon in 1994.
Microsoft did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Reifman is a former Microsoft employee.
Facebook food and beverages won't be a thing -- unless the social networks suddenly decides to open a cafe, that is.
Facebook has scored a rare copyright victory in China after a Beijing court dismissed a local company's attempt to register "face book" as a separate trademark.
In the ruling, the company was said to have "violated moral principles" with "obvious intention to duplicate and copy from another high-profile trademark." The court made the decision on April 28, but it was not widely reported at the time.
The Zhongshan Pearl River company wanted to use the "face book" name to sell food and drink, including canned vegetables, potato chips, coffee, tea, candy and juices. It registered the trademark in 2011, but after being preliminarily approved, it was challenged by the social network.
China's trademark laws are often seen as being overly lax, but on this occasion the ruling was decided in Facebook's favour, even though the social network is currently blocked in the country.
Apple lost a similar trademark dispute last week, when a court ruled that companies selling handbags and leather goods would be allowed to continue using the name "IPHONE" to market their goods.
Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
PayPal is paring back its protections for people making purchases via crowdsourcing sites.
Keen to kickstart a community project or back the latest invention on the Internet? Take note: PayPal has updated its terms of service, removing purchase protection for payments made on crowdfunding platforms.
The new policy comes into effect as of June 25, and it also drops protections for users paying for gambling and gaming (or "any other activity with an entry fee and a prize") or making payments to government agencies. PayPal did not immediately respond to a request for additional comment.
PayPal has long billed its policy as a way to protect buyers if a purchase "doesn't go as planned" and has even expanded it to cover digital purchases like Uber rides and digital music purchases. But as of next month, the company will no longer foot the bill if your chosen crowdfunding campaign collapses or if the final product isn't quite what you were after.
PayPal issued the following statement about the change:
Gone are the days of pledging your support for a potato salad, safe in the knowledge that you'll be protected even if the mayonnaise is subpar. It was a simpler time.
Updated 5:25 p.m. PT: Added statement from PayPal.
One of the biggest databases of leaked documents is hitting the Internet, and what lies within is a massive and complicated web of corporate ownership that spans the globe.
The ICIJ spent 15 months analysing leaked documents to make links between different offshore entities.
The Panama Papers contain more than 11.5 million files, analyzed by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists and scores of reporters across dozens of countries. The  new data dump, which goes online Monday at 2 p.m. ET, is just part of the picture, detailing the relationships between individuals, companies and offshore entities.
Think of it as a searchable corporate registry. But in this case, it's a network made up of hundreds of thousands of individuals and companies, with seemingly endless links criss-crossing from Australia to Zimbabwe. The question now is which of these links can be used to prove the companies involved were attempting to hide massive wealth overseas.
While there's no evidence that any of the entities have acted illegally, the "John Doe" behind the leak argues the data dump exposes the names behind growing income inequality, saying "it doesn't take much to connect the dots."
The papers, taken from Panama-based law firm Mossack Fonseca's servers, first leaked in early April. They caused a swift backlash, leading to Iceland's Prime Minister Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson resigning after his offshore dealings and usage of tax havens were revealed.
If you're keen to rifle through the Panama Papers (and the ICIJ is welcoming citizen journalism), be prepared to be inundated.
With countless unnamed entities and more than a million spreadsheet entries, there's a reason why it's taken this long to uncover the "politicians, criminals and the rogue industry that hides their cash."
Correction: This story initially misreported the timing of the new release of information to the ICIJ database. The release was set for 2 p.m. ET on Monday, May 9.
Ride-hailing services Uber and Lyft plan to cease operations in Austin, Texas, after losing a vote over required fingerprint background checks for drivers.
The rival companies said they plan to shut down their services on Monday after voters in the Texas capital rejected Proposition 1, a measure that would have exempted drivers from required fingerprinting as part of checks into their backgrounds. Lyft said the vote will make it harder for part-time drivers to offer rides in the city.
"We have to take a stand for a long-term path forward that lets ridesharing continue to grow across the country, and will pause operations in Austin on Monday, May 9," Lyft said in a statement.
"Disappointment does not begin to describe how we feel about shutting down operations in Austin," Uber said in a statement.
The vote comes amid growing concern for the safety of passengers on ride-hailing services. In the past two years, Uber has been dogged by allegations of drivers assaulting, raping and kidnapping passengers.
Last month, Uber agreed to pay as much as $25 million to settle a lawsuit in California that accused the ride-hailing company of misleading consumers about safety.
Liu Qing, president of Didi Chuxing, could soon be at the helm of the world's fourth-most valuable startup.
Didi Chuxing may be getting uber big.
China's biggest ride-hailing company, which competes with Uber for passengers and drivers in the world's biggest country, is on the brink of a new $2 billion financing round, according to Bloomberg.
The funding round could close in the next few weeks and give the company a valuation of $25 billion, Bloomberg reported, citing people familiar with the situation.
Bloomberg said Didi Chuxing would be the fourth-most valuable startup in the world if the deal closes. Uber is the most valuable.
Didi Chuxing didn't respond to a request for comment.
Apple's CEO has his hands full in China.
Apple CEO Tim Cook will reportedly go to China later this month, visiting a country that has been a sore spot for the consumer-electronics giant.
Cook will meet with senior Chinese government and Communist party leaders, according to Reuters, which cited an unnamed person. The Chinese officials include people in charge of propaganda, the report said.
China has proved difficult for Apple over the last couple of months. Last month, the country shut down Apple's iTunes movie and book services after just seven months of operation. Also in April, Apple reported its first drop in iPhone sales, driven in part by a 26 percent fall in sales in Greater China to $12.5 billion.
Billionaire investor Carl Icahn last week sold his stake in Apple, citing concerns about China.
Apple didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Radiohead's next album arrives on May 8.
After erasing all of its Facebook and Twitter posts earlier this month, rumors swirled that Radiohead was planning an epic album launch. The rumors were confirmed on Friday by the band on Twitter.
Confused? So are we. But, hey, at least now we know to look for the digital release of the band's latest album, "Daydreaming," on May 8.
Toshiba's incoming CEO Satoshi Tsunakawa (left) speaks during a press conference at the company headquarters in Tokyo.
Toshiba veteran Satoshi Tsunakawa on Friday was named to replace CEO Masashi Muromachi.
In July 2015,  Toshiba President and CEO Hisao Tanaka left the Japanese electronics giant following an accounting scandal. Toshiba over-stated profits by 151.8 billion yen (around $1.22 billion, £780 million or AU$1.6 billion) between 2008 and 2014, according to an independent investigation
Tsunakawa will succeed Muromachi as chief executive in June pending shareholder approval, the company said. Muromachi will stay on with Toshiba as a special advisor.
The social media giant is the latest tech firm to face legal issues for collecting biometric facial data without explicitly requesting consent from the user.
Facebook knows you so well these days that it can recognize you just by seeing your face. You may not have a problem with this, but that doesn't mean it's all good in the eyes of the law.
The social network lost the first round of a lawsuit on Thursday in which it is accused of "unlawfully" storing biometric data mined from people's photographs. The company was seeking to have the suit dismissed, but a federal judge in California rejected the request.
Facebook taps into its photo-tagging system to build up a geometric representation of people's faces to create something called a faceprint for each of its users. Faceprints are then used to suggest tags for people when new photos are uploaded to the network. The practice is outlined in the company's data policy, and users can opt out of having their face data collected.
One could argue that the clue is in the name, but many Facebook users probably don't know that they agree to having data about their face stored when they sign up. A group of Facebook users from Illinois has taken particular issue with this, accusing the social network of violating the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act for not seeking explicit consent to collect identifiers based on their physical features. If the law sides with the Illinois users, Facebook and other companies such as Google, which also uses facial recognition tech, might need to revisit their user agreements.
Facebook hoped to get the case thrown out on the grounds that its user agreement states any disputes should be governed solely by California law, but the judge decided that its terms do not protect the company from being subject to Illinois' biometrics act, saying in the ruling that the plaintiffs present a "plausible claim."
The company did not respond to a request for comment.
This is the far from the first time the social network has received pushback from users for not being explicit about details buried within its privacy policy. In the past such disputes have resulted in the social network becoming more transparent about privacy and security, making its setting and agreements easier for users to understand.
Clouds are giving way to sunshine in the patent dispute over the Nest Learning Thermostat.
Back in February 2012, Honeywell filed a lawsuit against Nest Labs, the startup-turned-Google/Alphabet property. The lawsuit claimed various patent infringements related to Nest's Wi-Fi-enabled Nest Learning Thermostat, an HVAC controller that relies on algorithms to adapt to your routine over time and auto-adjust temperatures on your behalf.
Things  have cooled down since then: The thermostat giants appear to have finally reached some sort of agreement, as noted in a brief joint statement Thursday afternoon.
While the exact details of the agreement remain confidential, the statement does suggest that Nest thermostats will remain on store shelves: "Google and Honeywell believe that this patent accord promotes product innovation and consumer choice in the market for smart home products." Honeywell and Nest did not immediately respond to a request to comment.
Apple said on Tuesday that its iPhone sales dropped for the first time ever, but it looks like the American giant isn't the only one struggling to keep numbers up.
Global smartphone shipments fell 3 percent year-on-year in 2016's first quarter, Strategy Analytics said in a release.
"It is the first time ever since the modern smartphone market began in 1996 that global shipments have shrunk on an annualized basis," said Linda Sui, the firm's director. "Global smartphone shipments fell 3 percent annually from 345 million units in Q1 2015 to 334.6 million in Q1 2016."
She said that the reasons for the drop are market saturation in countries like China and "consumer caution about the future of the world economy."
Samsung is still leading in market share, according to Strategy Analytics, having sold 79 million phones -- nearly 4 million less than were sold in Q1 of 2015 -- which represents 23.6 percent of the market. Apple is number two, with 51.2 million iPhones sold at 15.3 percent of the market squared.
One of the world's biggest data leaks is about to become searchable.
It might be too early for the world's rich and powerful to put their lawyers back in storage, with news that the world is about to see round two of the Panama Papers. And this time, they'll be searchable.
The Panama Papers label refers to more than 11 million legal and financial records of the world's power elite taken from Panama-based law firm Mossack Fonseca.
The International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, a German newspaper and other news groups spent more than a year sifting through these records, and earlier this month published documents exposing the tax shelters of 140 politicians and public figures, including Russian President Vladimir Putin, Icelandic government officials and beleaguered soccer organization FIFA.
Now the  ICIJ has announced that it will be dumping a second batch of documents regarding hundreds of thousands of offshore entities as part of its ongoing Panama Papers investigation.
The new raft of documents will be released on May 9, with basic corporate information on more than 200,000 offshore entities made available in a searchable database.
While the ICIJ says round two won't include a "data dump" of the original documents or the large-scale release of personal data, it has said the next phase "will likely be the largest ever release of secret offshore companies and the people behind them."
Arianna Huffington and Uber CEO Travis Kalanick together in a video welcoming her to Uber's board.
Ride-hailing startup Uber on Wednesday named Arianna Huffington to be the first woman on its board of directors.
Huffington is the liberal pundit and Huffington Post editor who recently wrote a best-selling book on the importance of sleep.
"Arianna embodies the type of optimistic leadership we need as Uber continues to grow," Uber CEO Travis Kalanick said in a blog post.
Her addition to Uber's board comes as the company, which is now operating in 412 cities worldwide, faces an outcry over its record of passenger safety, particularly for women. In January 2015, a woman from New Delhi filed a lawsuit against Uber in the US alleging the company's "negligence" and "fraud" led to her sexual assault by an Uber driver.  And in October, it was hit with a lawsuit alleging the ride-hailing company knowingly neglects the safety of its female customers.
Earlier this month Uber agreed to pay as much as $25 million to settle a lawsuit filed by the county of Los Angeles and the county of San Francisco that accused it of misleading consumers about safety.
Huffington's nomination to the board doesn't sit too well with media watchers, who question how The Huffington Post will be able to cover Uber fairly with its editor on the board. Gawker's headline on the news reads: "Arianna Huffington Goes for the Gold Medal in Conflicts of Interest."
Huffington said in a blog post Wednesday that "as HuffPost's editor-in-chief, I have recused myself from any and all editorial coverage of Uber."
Other directors include venture capitalist Bill Gurley of Benchmark and David Plouffe, Uber's former policy and communications chief.
Update, April 28 at 11:27 a.m. PT: Adds quote from Arianna Huffington's blog post.
Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz said Carly Fiorina will be his vice presidential running mate if he takes the nomination from front-runner Donald Trump.
"She is careful. She is measured. She is serious," Cruz said Wednesday at a rally in Indianapolis. "She doesn't get rattled."
The move, which could help Cruz attract more female voters than Trump, could mark the third time a woman has been a candidate for vice president. Geraldine Ferraro was Walter Mondale's running mate on the Democratic ticket during the 1984 campaign, and Sarah Palin was John McCain's running mate on the Republican side in the 2008 presidential race.
Fiorina, 61, suspended her own bid for the White House in February after finishing seventh in the New Hampshire primary.
"This is a fight," she said after taking the stage at Indianapolis. "This is a fight for the soul of our party and the future of our nation. I've had tough fights all my life. Tough fights don't worry me a bit."
Fiorina has worked in the technology industry her entire career; she first joined AT&T as a management trainee in 1980. Ten years later, she was a senior vice president at the company, making her AT&T's first female senior-level executive.
By the mid-1990s, Fiorina had become a "name" inside the technology industry -- first by planning the 1996 initial public offering of AT&T-spinoff Lucent Technologies and then becoming group president of Lucent's global service business in 1997. In 1998, she was named "the most powerful woman in American business" by Fortune.
She made headlines the following year when Hewlett-Packard appointed her its first woman CEO, succeeding Lew Platt.  She was also the first woman to head a Fortune 20 company. Her time at HP, though, was filled with tension and controversy. In September 2001, she announced that HP would acquire Compaq, then the second-biggest PC maker after Dell, for $25 billion in stock.
That acquisition not only made HP the world's biggest PC maker, it also put Fiorina at odds with the company's board, notably Walter Hewlett, son of co-founder Bill Hewlett.  He fought to take control away from Fiorina and waged a near-constant war of words against the Compaq purchase.
She also faced criticism for changing HP's corporate culture from caring, which some called "complacent," to one that rewarded performance over tenure.  By 2005, HP's board decided it could no longer work with her and forced her to resign. In her book "Tough Choices," Fiorina described directors'  behavior as "amateurish and immature."
Fiorina had dipped into politics before. She served as an economic advisor to McCain during his presidential bid. In 2010, she made a failed bid for a US Senate seat in California against incumbent Barbara Boxer.
President Trump's decisions will have a long-term impact on Silicon Valley -- and on how all of us use tech.
Wall Street is hoping Facebook's earnings will continue moving up, and to the right.
When you think of wacky and innovative tech companies, Google is usually the first to come up. But Facebook is quickly becoming second.
More people in Silicon Valley are talking about how Mark Zuckerberg is transforming Facebook from a way to share baby photos and updates about what we ate for breakfast to a company that wants to be an even bigger part of our lives. That's kind of like Google, which started life as a search engine and now makes phone software, autonomous cars and contact lenses that double as health sensors.
In the past two years, Facebook spent at least $2 billion to become a leader in virtual reality. In March, it started selling $599 Oculus Rift goggles that strap a screen so close to your face you'll believe the computer-generated worlds you're seeing are real. Facebook is also becoming such a vocal part of artificial intelligence research that Zuckerberg pledged to spend 2016 inventing an AI to manage his work and home. The company is also building Internet-beaming drones that fly over and capture images from remote parts of the world.
If you look at Google's list of research projects, there's a lot of overlap. The search giant just said it taught an AI system how to play the ancient board game Go. Facebook taught an AI system to answer test questions about J.R.R. Tolkien's book series "The Lord of the Rings." Facebook has Internet-beaming drones. Google has Net-beaming high-altitude balloons. Facebook is trying to speed up Internet networks. So is Google with its Fiber broadband service. Google also makes VR devices.
Facebook even announced Wednesday a new stock scheme that will create a new class of shares (something Google did as well). Facebook's board said the new plan will "allow us to remain focused on Mr. Zuckerberg's long-term vision for our company and encourage Mr. Zuckerberg to remain in an active leadership role at Facebook."
See the trend?
Facebook wants to make sure this trend continues too. In March, Zuckerberg said the company had poached one of Google's rock star execs, Regina Dugan, to head up a new hardware lab called Building 8. Dugan was once the chief of DARPA, or the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, a government group that develops emerging tech for the military. At Google, she led the Advanced Technology and Projects group, or ATAP, which is working on Internet-connected fabrics and phones with interchangeable parts you can snap on like Legos. (And let's not forget that Sheryl Sandberg, the company's famous COO and Zuckerberg's number two, also came from Google.)
Overall, it's a good day to pay attention to Facebook, which reported earnings that blew past Wall Street's expectations and sent the shares soaring. In the three months ended March 31, Facebook tallied 77 cents per share in profit, after adjustments for costs like stock-based compensation. Sales jumped more than 50 percent to $5.4 billion. Analysts were looking for profit of 62 cents a share on sales of nearly $5.3 billion.
Facebook's shares rose more than 7 percent in late trading.
"Facebook has been built by a series of bold moves," Zuckerberg said on a conference call with analysts. "Big bets on acquisitions like Instagram that were very controversial initially but were good decisions for our community and our business."
"And when I look out at the future I see more bold moves ahead of us than behind us," he added.
One key to Facebook's growth has been sharing, be it articles, videos or photos. Sharing and engagement, in whatever form they take, is an important metric to the company's executives.
"We're focused on providing the best tools to allow people to share in whatever way they wish to share," David Wehner, Facebook's CFO, said in an interview. That's part of why the company has purchased so many seemingly disparate companies over the years, be they the Instagram photo-sharing service or the WhatsApp texting service.
In the end, it's about giving people a way to communicate, he said. And in that, "there's a lot of room to grow."
One of the newest ways the company is expanding sharing is through its Facebook Live video effort, which allows anyone to shoot and share live video streams to Facebook from a phone at any time. So far, media organizations have been among the most active on the service, but Wehner said the company will continue to invest to see more people use it. "We think there's a great opportunity for people to share, not just news organizations," he said. "We've got the best live product out there."
Facebook said people are sharing and creating nearly three times more video than they were a year ago. As of February, people are spending 40 percent more time watching videos on Instagram than they were late last year. "Overall sharing is up across Facebook and people are spending more time on Facebook and the whole family of apps," Zuckerberg said on the conference call.
At its heart, Facebook still primarily relies on ads for the bulk of the money it makes. And of the $5.2 billion that Facebook rings up from ads, those shown on mobile devices represented 82 percent of its total haul, according to Wednesday's earnings report. Nearly 92 percent of the 1.65 billion people who access the service at least once a month do so using a mobile device. On a daily basis, mobile readers represent nearly 91 percent of Facebook's 1.09 billion users.
CNET's Richard Nieva contributed to this report.
Google and the EU could be about to knock heads once again -- this time over image piracy.
Photo agency Getty Images is accusing Google of encouraging piracy and lodged a complaint against the company on Wednesday with the European Commission.
By displaying photos owned by Getty in its own picture search results, Google is taking away traffic that would otherwise go to Getty's website, the photo agency claims.
Getty's case is just the latest in a string of antitrust complaints lodged with the Commission's competition directorate against Google. Only last week, Europe's competition commissioner charged Google over Android abuses following a yearlong investigation. When companies are found to break Europe's competition laws as Google now has on several occasions, they have to adjust business practices to continue operating in the EU.
Getty's complaint centres around the claim that the livelihood of the 200,000 photojournalists the company represents is being adversely affected by Google's image search tool.
"Artists need to earn a living in order to sustain creativity, and licensing is paramount to this; however, this cannot happen if Google is siphoning traffic and creating an environment where it can claim the profits from individuals' creations as its own," Getty Images General Counsel Yoko Miyashita said in a statement.
Since January 2013, Google's picture-search tool, Google Images, has presented high-resolution, large-format images in its search results, which Getty claims prevents people from clicking through to its site and learning about licensing restrictions. Google Images also lets people right-click and save pictures.
Getty said it raised its concerns with Google but that the search company did nothing. Getty had to bear with the presentation or opt out of Google search altogether, rendering it invisible, the photo agency said.
Getty isn't the only company to make this complaint and claims that its submission to the EU supports an earlier complaint made by CEPIC, the Coordination of European Picture Agencies Stock, Press and Heritage.
Google did not respond to a request for comment.
Samsung kicked off its developer conference at Moscone Center in San Francisco this morning, with plenty of announcements about the Artik chips, its mobile payment system Samsung Pay, Samsung Connect Auto, and the Gear 360.
Here's what we heard about today:
The man found dead on Apple's campus Wednesday has been identified as  Edward Mackowiak, 25, according to the Santa Clara County Coroner's office.
A LinkedIn profile that has been taken down listed Mackowiak as a software engineer working for Apple, according to Reuters.
"We are heartbroken by the tragic loss of a young and talented coworker," said Apple spokeswoman Kristin Huguet. "Our thoughts and deepest sympathies go out to his family and friends, including the many people he worked with here at Apple. We are working to support them however we can in this difficult time."
Deputies were dispatched to Apple's headquarters at 1 Infinite Loop, in Cupertino, California, at 8:38 a.m. PT, Wednesday, Sergeant Andrea Urena said in an email. When they arrived, they found a man "down."
"After further investigation it appeared there was no foul play and no other individuals were involved," Urena said. The coroner has determined that Mackowiak shot himself, according to a report by local TV station NBC Bay Area.
According to police-scanner audio obtained by TMZ, security was escorting out an employee with a "head wound, possibly from a gunshot." The person speaking then adds, "I do have further that there's a body in one of the conference rooms."
A man's body was discovered in a conference room, according to ABC7 News. A gun was found next to him.
Update April 29 at 5:37 p.m. PT: Added Apple employee's name and age.
All the latest Apple news, featuring developments on the iPhone, iPad, Macbooks, OS X and much more.
Yahoo is adding four new members to its board to try to spark its revival.
The effort to right the good ship Yahoo has taken a decided turn toward Starboard.
The company announced Wednesday that it has reached an agreement with activist investor Starboard Value to bring four new independent directors to its board. As part of the agreement, Starboard has withdrawn its  nominees for the board, but one of the new directors will be Starboard CEO Jeff Smith.
Starboard, which owns 1.7 percent of Yahoo, has been pushing hard for big changes at the company, whose glory days as an Internet pioneer are well behind it. The financial firm initially was pushing to overturn the entire board of directors at Yahoo's annual shareholder meeting later this year. In a letter to other Yahoo shareholders last month, Starboard said it wanted a new group of people on Yahoo's board to oversee a "turnaround plan, separation, or sale of assets."
The news should relieve a bit of stress on the company, for the time being at least.
"This constructive resolution will allow management and the board to       keep our focus on our extremely important objectives," CEO Marissa Mayer said in a statement.
It's not as though Yahoo hasn't been trying to revive its sagging businesses. Mayer has taken steps to spark  change, including enhancing its focus on mobile sites and services. But the efforts have failed to excite consumers or satisfy shareholders, prompting the board to explore options beyond the attempted turnaround, including a possible sale.
Beyond Smith, the three other people joining Yahoo's board are Tor Braham, Eddy Hartenstein and Richard Hill.
Braham worked for Deutsche Bank Securities from 2004 until 2012 as managing director and global head of technology mergers and acquisitions. Hartenstein was CEO of the Tribune Company, chairman and CEO of DirecTV, and publisher and CEO of the Los Angeles Times Media Group. Hill has been chairman of Tessera Technologies since 2013.
At Yahoo's annual meeting, two existing directors will not seek re-election, leaving the board with 11 members.
"I am pleased that we were able to reach a constructive agreement with Yahoo to add new independent directors to the Yahoo board," Smith said in a statement. "We look forward to getting started right away and working closely with management and our fellow board members with the common goal of maximizing value for all shareholders."
Taylor Swift denied songs like "Bad Blood" to Spotify listeners in 2015, but streaming still drove the market to grow at a 15-year high.
Remember 2015? When we all had bad blood and couldn't feel our faces when we were uptown funkin'? Turns out 2015 was the most successful year the music industry has seen in 15 years, according to new figures.
That's in terms of growth, anyway: People don't spend nearly as much on music as they did in the heady days of the early 2000s before digital music, piracy and streaming turned the market upside down. But the amount of money spent by music fans is growing. In 2015, industry revenue grew 5 percent, reaching nearly $19 billion.
In 2016, streaming has reached new levels of legitimacy following December's belated  arrival of The Beatles on Spotify, Apple Music blasting to 13 million paid subscribers and big-name albums launching on Tidal.
But streaming hasn't been fully embraced quite yet: Germans and Japanese, for example, still spend most of their music budgets on CDs.
Two SpaceX alums, John Garvey and Jim Cantrell, have founded a new startup called Vector Space Systems that aims to put micro satellites into orbit.
It would be a dramatic shakeup of the current launch model, where getting a satellite into orbit requires piggybacking on existing launches. These rideshare payloads often need to wait years for a launch and must pick from a very limited choice of destinations.
Popular Science points to these tiny satellites, ranging from about 5 kg to 50 kg (about 10 pounds to 110 pounds), comprising about 75 percent of all satellite launches within the next five years.
In a press release, Cantrell said he wants to "bring the reality of space to a much larger pool of entrepreneurs." The startup is aiming to launch its first rocket in 2018.
Samsung, the country's top vendor, will have to install panic buttons on the smartphones it sells in India.
There were 337,922 crimes against women reported in India in 2014. That's over 900 crimes a day, or around one every two minutes.
The country's government hopes to battle this problem with technology. Officials announced on Monday that all mobile phones sold in the country from January 2017 will need to be kitted out with a panic button feature, Reuters reports.
The function will be activated on smartphones by pressing the power button three times. For feature phones, still popular in the country, the user will need to hold either the 5 or 9 key. Starting January of 2018, all phones will be required to house a GPS system as well.
"Technology is solely meant to make human life better and what better (use) than...for the secrurity of women," a statement from the government read.
The 337,922 reports of crimes against women in 2014 represented a 9.2 percent increase from the year before, according to India's National Crime Records Bureau. Crimes with the greatest incidence were assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty, kidnapping and abduction, and rape.
The country has seen massive growth in its smartphone industry over the last few years, having become the world's second biggest market, behind China. This is means that there are more phones in the country than ever, but Pankaj Mohindroo, president of the Indian Cellular Association, says the new measures will impede poorer Indians from accessing phones.
In a letter to telecom secretary JS Deepak, Mohindroo said that forcing GPS to be in all phones "will not be in the interest of consumers at the bottom of the pyramid," reports the Economic Times.
The Association says that installing a GPS in a handset will increase the cost to consumers between 266 and 400 rupees ($4-$6), which is a problem when you consider the average wage in the country is around 270 rupees a day.
Virtual reality is amazing, but there's not a lot to do in VR quite yet. Now the maker of the HTC Vive virtual-reality headset is doing something about that. HTC is launching a global startup accelerator with $100 million in funding, with the hopes of investing in ambitious software and hardware ideas for virtual reality.
The pilot program will begin this May in Beijing, China, where "selected startups from around Asia" will be provided with office space, coaching and a small investment of between $50,000 and $200,000. In exchange, the HTC-led investment fund will take "a small amount of equity."
The resulting VR applications won't need to be exclusive to the HTC Vive, according to an HTC representative.
Should the pilot succeed, HTC plans to expand the Vive X accelerator to San Francisco and Taipei, and extend to other global hubs after that.
HTC isn't the first to launch a startup accelerator specifically for virtual-reality applications. Rothenberg Ventures launched a $10 million program in San Francisco last year, providing $100,000 for each of 13 different startups to begin their businesses. The firm now offers upward of $200,000 for each venture.
You can read HTC's press release here.
A fleet of auto and tech companies are forming a self-driving car coalition.
Google, Uber, Ford and others are ganging together to promote the interests of self-driving cars, according to a Reuters report. The coalition's aim is to urge government action on self-driving vehicles, specifically to cut through the patchwork autonomous-driving laws that differ wildly from state to state.
"The best path for this innovation is to have one clear set of federal standards," ex-US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration official David Strickland said in a statement. "The coalition will work with policymakers to find the right solutions that will facilitate the deployment of self-driving vehicles."
Driverless cars are being developed by numerous companies. Proponents say self-driving tech has the potential to be much safer than standard human driving, though policymakers are likely to have many concerns about the implications of letting a machine take the wheel.
"1.3 million people die every year in traffic accidents -- many of them  young people," an Uber spokesperson said in a statement. "Self-driving  cars can help save millions of lives as well as cut congestion in our  cities."
Ford echoed and expanded on that sentiment. "We believe fully autonomous vehicles will help people travel more safely and efficiently, as well as facilitate mobility for those currently unable to drive," the automaker said in a statement.
Earlier this year, Google acknowledged that one of its self-driving cars was at least partly responsible for a minor accident involving a bus.
Google and Ford didn't immediately respond to requests for comment.
Update 14:42 p.m. UK: Added statement from Uber.
Update 17:11 p.m. UK: Added statement from Ford.
US wireless customers seem to like what T-Mobile and CEO John Legere are selling.
T-Mobile ended another quarter sweeping in a hefty number of subscribers -- and it logged a profit to boot.
For the first quarter of 2016, the company added a net total of 2.2 million customers, the sixth time in the past seven quarters its net additions surpassed 2 million subscribers. That brought T-Mobile's total customer count to more than 65.5 million.
The company sold or leased 8.8 million smartphones during the three-month period.
T-Mobile's results come amid intense jockeying by mobile carriers to retain existing customers and pick up new ones. The company lags behind leaders Verizon and AT&T and has been swapping third and fourth place with Sprint. But its boisterous Uncarrier campaign has struck a chord with consumers looking for more budget-friendly mobile plans.
Among its lures, T-Mobile has been pushing such promotions as Binge On, which lets you stream video from Netflix, Hulu other services without chewing up your mobile data. Subscribers can also roll over data from one month to another and take advantage of free data roaming in Europe, South America and other regions.
During the first quarter, the carrier saw its net income jump to $479 million, or 56 cents  per share, up from a net loss of $63 million in the first quarter of  2015.
Revenue came in at $8.6 billion, up 10.6 percent year over year. Analysts had expected revenue, on average, of $8.43 billion.
The 2.2 million new subscribers includes more than 1 million postpaid customers, the seventh consecutive quarter that the figure surpassed 1 million. T-Mobile's churn rate, the rate at which subscribers drop the carrier, was 1.33 percent, about the same as in last year's first quarter.
Nokia has snapped up wearable maker Withings, in a bid to boost the Finnish company's presence in the digital health market.
Withings, headquartered in Paris, has approximately 200 employees and builds smart home gadgets, wearable tech and health care devices.
Nokia, though now focused on IT and infrastructure, is best known for making phones, and at one time was the biggest mobile maker in the world. Its fortunes faded in the smartphone era however, and in 2014 completed the sale of its smartphone devision to Microsoft.
The Withings Thermo is a Wi-Fi thermometer.
"We have said consistently that digital health was an area of strategic interest to Nokia," CEO Rajeev Suri said in a statement, "and we are now taking concrete action to tap the opportunity in this large and important market."
Withings has been valued for the sale at 170 million euros (roughly $192 million, £132 million or AU$248 million). The acquisition is set to be completed in the later half of 2016, subject to regulatory approval, Nokia said.
Amazon took its first legal action against allegedly fake reviews last year.
For budding novelists looking to stand out, the website PaidBookReviews.org offers a package of 100 book reviews on Amazon for the low price of $2,200.
The website was one of five sites Amazon sued Friday in Washington state court, part of the online retailer's year-long campaign to snuff out networks of fake reviews on its site.
The company has filed three separate lawsuits since last April, targeting more than 1,000 alleged fake reviewers. Several sites Amazon sued have already shut down, and an Amazon spokeswoman said Monday that the suits have helped the company obtain information to go after people not directly involved in the lawsuits, resulting in Amazon banning some sellers and reviewers.
"We will continue to pursue legal action against the root cause of reviews abuse -- the sellers and manufacturers who create the demand for fraudulent reviews," the spokeswoman said in a written statement, "as well as the ecosystem of individuals and organizations who supply fraudulent reviews."
Amazon has a big interest in making sure its millions of customers trust its 5-star reviews system, especially because these reviews let buyers know how good or crummy products are before making purchases online. While Amazon repeatedly says only a small fraction of its reviews are fakes and it uses controls to take many of them down, the company may still find itself in an unending battle of cracking down on paid reviews websites that crop up when old ones are shuttered.
Amazon last April filed its first lawsuit against fake reviewers, marking the first time it's taken legal action against the practice. Then in October, it filed another lawsuit targeting more than 1,000 registered sellers on the website Fiverr, which lets people sell odd jobs and services for $5 or more.
In Friday's suit, Amazon sued California resident Jane John-Nwankwo, who the company claims owns and runs PaidBookReviews.org, as well as New York resident Chris Embry, the alleged CEO of AmazonVerifiedReviews.com. Amazon also sued the operators of AmazonReviewStar.com, BuyAmazonReviews.info and ReviewConnections.com, but Amazon couldn't identify those sites' owners.
AmazonVerifiedReviews.com appeared to already be shuttered, but it is registered under Embry's name. He didn't respond to a call for comment. PaidBookReviews.org didn't immediately respond to an email for comment.
Amazon is suing for trademark infringement and other claims. It's requesting the sites stop using Amazon's trademark, stop offering Amazon reviews for sale and help Amazon find those engaged in fake reviews.
Here's a PaidBookReviews.org video describing its services:
Airbnb lets people list, find and rent short-term lodging.

Airbnb could be held responsible for policing San Francisco listings that violate the city's short-term rental law.
San Francisco Supervisors David Campos and Aaron Peskin plan to introduce legislation on Tuesday that will hold sites like Airbnb responsible for verifying that hosts are following the city's law. Current law requires hosts to register, carry liability insurance, pay transient occupancy taxes and uphold a 90-day cap on unhosted rentals, among other things.
The supervisors are proposing that any hosting site that doesn't follow the mandate would face fines of up to $1,000 per day per unregistered, aka illegal, listing.
"The legislation I am introducing tomorrow with Supervisor Peskin will ensure that Web platforms are supporting -- and not hindering -- the enforcement of our short term rental law in San Francisco," said Campos in a statement. "This is not about changing the current law, it's about enforcing the current law."
This legislation highlights growing pains that are spreading across the on-demand and sharing economy, which create peer-to-peer marketplaces via online services and apps. Uber, an app that pairs passengers with drivers, settled two class action lawsuits on Thursday that will let its drivers remain classified as independent contractors. Several other on-demand startups are facing similar lawsuits and some, such as house-cleaning startup Homejoy, have shut down.
Airbnb, which operates in nearly 200 countries, connects homeowners with people looking for rentals. The proposed law would not change requirements for hosts in San Francisco.  However, over 75 percent of the more than 7,000 Airbnb hosts in San Francisco are not registered, as required, and continue to list on the site, according to a release from Campos.
"While the legal enforceability of this proposal is questionable, Airbnb will continue working with our community to simplify the process and get hosts registered," a company spokeswoman said.  "We look forward to engaging with all stakeholders to find real solutions that accomplish our shared goals of protecting housing."
San Francisco officially legalized peer-to-peer home sharing back in 2014, but some city officials and residents have since tried to tighten the rules. Critics have accused Airbnb of contributing to tighter housing markets, with landlords taking rental units off the market to capitalize on short-term rentals instead. In November, voters in San Francisco rejected a proposition that would have imposed restrictions on how many days homeowners could rent their homes. Campos also previously introduced an amendment, which failed to pass, that aimed to put a 75-day limit on short-term rentals per calendar year.
Airbnb has promised to do its own crackdown of illegal listings. In April, the company said it was investigating hosts in San Francisco with multiple listings and plans to give "unwelcome commercial operators" the boot.
Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Tom Wheeler on Monday said he's recommending the agency's commissioners approve Charter Communications'  acquisition of Time Warner Cable. Separately, the US Department of Justice also said  it will allow the $78 billion deal to go ahead; it also approved Charter's $10.4 billion purchase of Bright House Networks.
Those acquisitions will make Charter the second-largest provider of cable and TV service in the US, after Comcast.
The Justice Department said it is proposing a settlement that would restrict Charter's ability to make it harder for streaming services like Netflix and Hulu to get video content from programmers. Wheeler is proposing conditions that would bring high-speed Internet to more homes.
The best part of Uber may soon be no more.
The cashless car

 service may start requiring you to ​carry cash to tip drivers. Although Uber has said you don't need to tip, gratuity has never been included. Watch CNET Update below to learn why not tipping could impact your chances of getting future rides:
Also in this tech-news roundup, learn why Tidal is the only place you can stream Beyonce's new album, "Lemonade," but it's not the only place to hear her music. It was a big weekend for HBO as the network premiered the Lemonade film and the new season of "Game of Thrones," but the HBO Now streaming app left some fans frustrated, asking, "WHERE ARE MY DRAGONS?"
CNET Update delivers the tech news you need in under 3 minutes. Watch Bridget Carey every afternoon for a breakdown of the big stories, hot devices, new apps and what's ahead. Subscribe to the podcast via the links below.
You still want to wait in long lines to buy us, right?
Apple likely sold 51 million iPhones in three months, and that's a bad thing. As part of its latest earnings report Tuesday, the device maker expects to post its first-ever decline in iPhone sales since first introducing the blockbuster smartphone in 2007. With that one device accounting for more than two-thirds of its sales, any decline in demand is a big problem for Apple.
Also on today's podcast, we touch on Uber's new tipping plans and a solar-powered plane's trip around the world.
The 3:59 gives you bite-size news and analysis about the top stories of the day, brought to you by CNET Executive Editor Roger Cheng (currently on parental leave), Senior Writer Ben Fox Rubin and Producer Bryan VanGelder.
Hundreds of Spotify account credentials -- including emails, usernames and passwords -- were posted on the website Pastebin in a possible security breach, according to a report Monday from TechCrunch.
The credentials are "specific to Spotify," said TechCrunch, and include the type of account along with general log-in information. TechCrunch said it did not link to the PasteBin, which is dated April 23, out of security concerns. The list reportedly spans the globe, affecting users from all over the world.
"Spotify has not been hacked and our user records are secure," a company representative told CNET. "We monitor Pastebin and other sites regularly. When we find Spotify credentials, we first verify that they are authentic, and if they are, we immediately notify affected users to change their passwords."
Spotify users are reporting unexplained activity in their accounts, said TechCrunch, including "recently played" songs that they hadn't listened to. Others claim that their log-in emails were changed.
Driving is hell, and Lyft is the answer. That's the general thrust of the ride-hailing service's first TV commercial, which will soon be running nationwide.
The spot is centered around a purgatorial traffic jam filled with unhappy motorists, all of whom are dealing with the sorts of automotive headaches the ride service promises to alleviate. A single, savvy driver finally gets fed up, makes her way through the chaos, and climbs out over the literal mountain of cars causing the logjam to flag herself a Lyft and ride off into the sunset.
The ad is clearly targeted at the morning commute, which might signal a push from the service to establish more of a routine customer presence in the dozens of cities it currently operates in. Whether or not that works will remain to be seen, but grand scale brand visibility in American living rooms seems like a good start.
The ad will begin running nationwide tonight, said a Lyft spokesperson.
Project Loon is designed to beam Internet to remote areas.
One of Google's Project Loon balloons reportedly crashed on a farm in Chile on Saturday following a test flight.
Police cordoned off the site where the balloon hit the ground, which was east of Los Angeles in the province of Biobio. The Chilean civil aviation authority will now investigate the fall, the Register reported on Monday.
Google said the crash was planned.
"This was a planned landing for Project Loon, a project that hopes to beam Internet access to rural, remote, and underserved parts of the world," said a Google spokesman. "The balloon that landed on Saturday, April 23 had successfully concluded a test flight and we coordinated with local air traffic control as we managed its slow descent to a rural area just east of Los Ángeles, Chile."
Project Loon balloons are designed to bring Internet access to remote areas of the developing world. Test flights began in June 2013 and are ongoing.
Reddit users have seen evidence that Google's Play Store for Android OS apps may soon surface on Chrome OS notebooks such as this one from Acer.
Google's Play Store and its millions of Android apps could be headed to Chromebooks and Chrome OS software.
Screenshots posted by Reddit users on Sunday indicate that the integration of Google's mobile app emporium into Chrome OS, its operating system for Chromebooks, may be imminent. The change has been rumored since Google executives hinted in late 2015 that Chrome OS and Android -- Chrome's mobile equivalent -- could be inching closer.
An image posted by Reddit user TheWiseYoda and hosted on Imgur shows an option in settings that reads: "Enable Android apps to run on your Chromebook," which then disappears. Ars Technica reported that it was able to replicate this on a second-generation Chromebook Pixel.
Google I/O, the company's annual developers conference, is slated for May and usually includes slew of updates and changes to Google software. Any plans regarding the potential integration of Android and Chrome are complete speculation. However, Eric Schmidt, executive chairman of Google parent company Alphabet, hinted in November that the two operating systems might eventually merge.
"We're always experimenting with new features, but don't have anything to announce at this time," said a Google spokeswoman.
Correction, 5:30 a.m. PT: Eric Schmidt's title has been fixed.
The US is targeting ISIS with cyberattacks.
The US has introduced a new tactic in its war against the Islamic State.
The Department of Defense's Cyber Command unit is mounting cyberattacks against the terrorist organization, the New York Times reported Sunday.
The cybercampaign is the latest in a range of military missions being conducted by the US against ISIS. Its aim is to stop the organization from spreading its message, recruiting new members and circulating orders online.
The Cyber Command has placed implants within ISIS's networks in order to study the behavior of members, with the eventual aim of mimicking them to alter their messages and redirect militants in a way that will leave them exposed to US ground or drone operations.
These cyberattacks mark a new approach for the US and have not been widely discussed, with a few exceptions.
"We are dropping cyberbombs," Deputy Secretary of Defense Robert Work told CNN earlier this month. "We have never done that before."
The Cyber Command did not immediately respond to a request for comment, and the Department of Defense could not be reached.
The experimental plane Solar Impulse 2 landed in California late Saturday night, completing a three-day flight across the Pacific Ocean as part of its historic trek around the world.
Solar Impulse 2 makes a flyby over the Golden Gate Bridge.
The solar-powered, zero-fuel airplane took off from Kalaeloa Airport in Hawaii on Thursday and touched down at Moffett Airfield in Mountain View, California, just before midnight PT. The plane traveled at an average speed of about 40 miles per hour (or 65 kilometers per hour), according to its flight report. Before landing, Pilot Bertrand Piccard performed a flyby of the Golden Gate Bridge, giving spectators below a glimpse of narrow aircraft with huge wingspan.
The plane, which gathers energy from solar cells and stores it for overnight flying, will make three more stops in the US before crossing the Atlantic Ocean to Europe or Northern Africa.
The Solar Impulse 2's global tour began in March 2015 in Abu Dhabi. After finishing its eighth leg in July 2015 from Japan to Hawaii -- the longest leg so far in terms of distance (5,545 miles or 8,924 km) and time (about 5 days) -- the plane had to stay in Hawaii for a spell so crews could fix its overheated batteries.
We aren't buying enough new iPhones.
That's why Apple is expected to tell investors something it's never had to say before during its quarterly earnings call:  iPhone sales likely dropped for the first time since the game-changing device went on sale in 2007.
That drop isn't a surprise to those who've been listening. Apple CEO Tim Cook and his team  in January predicted a slide in total revenue and cautioned that iPhone sales would see their first-ever slump in the three months ended in March. The company reports fiscal second-quarter results Tuesday.
Analysts think iPhone shipments tumbled nearly 20 percent from the same quarter a year ago. Analysts, on average, expect Apple to sell about 51 million iPhones in the three months that ended in March, according to Morgan Stanley. That's down from 61.2 million units in the March quarter of 2015.
The bigger worry is whether this signals a tough year overall for the world's largest public company. Analysts who cover Apple think that's exactly what it means, citing the ho-hum reaction to last year's iPhone model, the 6S.
"Given the similar form factor for the iPhone 6S and softer smartphone global demand trends, we anticipate down year-over-year iPhone sales for the remainder of [fiscal] 2016," said T. Michael Walkley, an analyst with Canaccord Genuity.
Apple didn't have a comment ahead of its earnings report.
Walkley's not alone. Most analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expect Apple's revenue to slide about 3 percent this year as fewer people buy iPhones. The reason for that concern is simple: More than two-thirds of Apple's sales come from the iPhone. One bad quarter of phone sales translates into a bad quarter overall.
Revenue could drop about 10 percent in the second quarter to $52 million and slip about 4 percent to $47.4 billion in the quarter ending in June.
When the Apple Watch came out in April 2015, everyone was excited and curious. We unboxed it. We showered with it. We torture tested it. One year later, we asked CNET editors what became of the Watch.
The year is off to a tough start for many tech companies. Intel, the world's biggest provider of chips for computers and servers, is cutting 11 percent of its workforce as it grapples with a steep drop in PC sales. IBM reported a 14-year low in quarterly sales. And Netflix raised concerns about winning over fewer subscribers in its overseas and US businesses. Even Alphabet, the parent company of Google, reported disappointing sales and profit.
For Apple, the problem is that people just aren't excited about phones. The devices haven't really changed that much over the past few years -- at least not enough to get you running to the Apple Store and buying a new model every year or two. Apple's current flagship phones, the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus, didn't add enough new features to persuade most iPhone customers to trade up.
Apple's first smartwatch -- the Apple Watch, which hit the market a year ago -- hasn't sold in high-enough numbers to boost the company's sales, and its iPad business has dropped every quarter for the past two years, even with the introduction of the 12.9-inch iPad Pro in late 2015.
To help boost excitement, Apple last month added a smaller iPad Pro to its lineup and released a new 4-inch phone, the iPhone SE, to appeal to customers who like smaller devices. It also sweetened the appeal of the SE with a $399 price tag, making it the least expensive new iPhone Apple has ever sold. (The iPhone 6S starts at $649.)
Andy Hargreaves, an Apple analyst for Pacific Crest, said the iPhone SE should stop consumers from buying old iPhones to get the smaller screen size.
But even if the iPhone SE becomes more popular, it's not as important to Apple's future -- and financial results -- as its flagship phones. Analysts have given up on Apple this year and instead are looking to 2017. They hope the next iPhone, likely called the iPhone 7 and expected in September, will give Apple the boost it needs.
UBS analyst Steven Milunovich expects iPhone shipments to rise at least 5 percent to 10 percent in 2017. "Even without killer new features, the iPhone 7 should prompt improved upgrade demand with more than 200 [million] iPhone users not having moved to a large screen," he noted. "We are not at peak iPhone."
But that's next year. For now, Apple has to deal with the fact that we're just not that into the iPhone.
All the latest Apple news, featuring developments on the iPhone, iPad, Macbooks, OS X and much more.
A day after Uber settled a pair of class action lawsuits over how it classifies drivers, the Teamsters said it plans to form an association for ride-share drivers in California.
The labor union said Friday it has received "overwhelming outreach" from Uber drivers seeking benefits, dispute resolution and a stronger voice on the job.
"We welcome any Uber drivers seeking to improve their working  conditions," said Rome Aloise, president of Teamsters Joint Council 7, in a statement.  "By coming together, the Teamsters will help these drivers have a  stronger voice and improve standards for rideshare drivers in  California."
Under the recent settlement with drivers in California and Massachusetts, which still needs to be approved by a judge, Uber drivers will remain independent contractors. This means the company is not responsible for all sorts of costs, including Social Security, health insurance and overtime. However, among the changes in the settlement is a requirement that Uber recognize a drivers association in both states.
The Teamsters already formed an association for Uber drivers in Seattle under the App-Based Drivers Association, and has organized drivers at tech companies throughout Silicon Valley, including Facebook, Apple, Google and Yahoo.
Uber said this does not affect the settlement.
Remember when pretty much all the major tech company started suing each other over their phones, software and wireless intellectual property? Microsoft and Google are calling that fight quits.
Last September, the two companies settled their long-running patent feud, and on Friday, representatives from both companies told Recode said they'll stop sending complaints to regulators, too.
"Microsoft has agreed to withdraw its regulatory complaints against Google, reflecting our changing legal priorities," wrote a Microsoft representative. "We will continue to focus on competing vigorously for business and for customers."
Well, isn't that nice. Google offered up a similar statement.
"Our companies compete vigorously, but we want to do so on the merits of our products, not in legal proceedings," said Google. "As a result, following our patent agreement, we've now agreed to withdraw regulatory complaints against one another."
Justin Yu is back in an attempt to make printers sexy again. Plus, how to catch Tinder cheaters and the very dark side of VR.

Download today's podcast
Subscribe to our wonderful program:
Russ's new podcast: The West Wing History Class

Follow everyone on Twitter!


File any hateful or insightful comments at our show thread over at our subreddit:  	 	reddit.com/r/the404.

The EU reckons Google is abusing its Android dominance.
We've also got a transatlantic quiz and an interview with the British drone racing world champion -- 16-year-old Luke Bannister. Excitingly, we've also been sent some dynamite blueprints for the podcast's potentially world-changing "Electrolord" concept electric car, which will be familiar to regular listeners. Huge thanks to Mem Factor from Oxford, age 12, for sending us the plans you can see below:
The Electrolord design. Now all we need is someone to build it.
Having trouble with the audio player? Try this link.
Subscribe to the CNET UK podcast:
First-person view (FPV) drone racing sees pilots race quadcoptors using head-mounted displays. We talk to the stars of this extraordinary new sport, including world champ Luke Bannister.
Prospective Uber drivers in China will have to snap a selfie in order to register with the service.
As Uber continues to battle concerns over driver safety and identity, the ride-sharing service will begin asking its drivers in China to use facial recognition features.
Drivers will use an app to take a selfie upon initially registering to establish their identities, reports the South China Morning Post. As part of the process, they would make a series of simple head gestures, according to the report. Drivers will then have to confirm their identities periodically to ensure they are really who they say they are.
The features, which are designed to end questionable activities like multiple drivers sharing a single account, will have no impact on passengers for now. Uber could not be immediately reached for comment.
Apple's iTune's Movies and iBooks services have been shut down in China, the company told Bloomberg on Thursday, just seven months since the services started operating in the country.
Apple is working to restore services as soon as possible, but there is no clear time frame. The closure began last week.
The New York Times reported that China's State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television is behind the closures, citing sources familiar with the matter. The Chinese media regulator, along with the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology , in February announced new laws regarding online publishing, which went into effect last week.
Apple did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
All the latest Apple news, featuring developments on the iPhone, iPad, Macbooks, OS X and much more.
Uber has settled a pair of class-action lawsuits over how it classifies its drivers, an agreement that could have a huge impact on Uber's business model.
Under the agreement (see below), which settles lawsuits filed in California and Massachusetts, Uber will continue to classify drivers as independent contractors but pay as much as $100 million to the roughly 385,000 drivers involved in the lawsuits. The ride-hailing company also agreed to concessions, including providing drivers with more information about why they are banned from the service and create a "Driver Association" in both states to address drivers' concerns.
The settlement, filed Thursday in US District Court for Northern California, threatened the foundation of Uber's business model. The company has grown dramatically in the past six years by providing a smartphone app that sidesteps taxicabs and provides a connection between people who want a ride and de facto cab drivers who pilot their own vehicles. But their classification as independent contractors upset drivers, because it means the company is not responsible for all sorts of costs, including Social Security, health insurance, paid sick days and overtime.
Under the settlement, which still requires court approval, Uber will no longer be able to terminate drivers at will and will create appeals panels for drivers who feel they have been terminated unjustly. Uber will also make clear to riders that tips are not included in Uber's fares, and drivers will be permitted to post signs reflecting that arrangement.
Uber had always contended that the drivers preferred the arrangement, that it gave them a personal flexibility that allowed them to set their own schedule and be their own boss.
"Drivers value their independence -- the freedom to push a button rather than punch a clock, to use Uber and Lyft simultaneously, to drive most of the week or for just a few hours," Travis Kalanick, chief executive of Uber, said in a company blog post announcing the settlement.
"That said, as Uber has grown -- over 450,000 drivers use the app each month here in the US -- we haven't always done a good job working with drivers," he wrote. "It's time to change."
An attorney for the drivers in the California case called the settlement an "historic agreement" that will increase drivers' income and improve their work lives by fostering a constructive dialogue between drivers and the company.
"We are very proud of this achievement and look forward to these changes being implemented for the benefit of Uber drivers," Shannon Liss-Riordan, attorney for the drivers, said in a statement.
She added that although the drivers were looking forward to taking the case to trial, they also faced a number of serious risks in the judicial system that could jeopardize what the drivers ultimately received. After balancing that risk against a settlement that will improve the working conditions for Uber drivers, plaintiffs decided to settle, she said.
The driver classification lawsuit was originally filed in 2013. Over the past couple of years, Uber has tried to get the case thrown out.
In the wake of this battle, several on-demand companies appear to be rethinking the independent contractor classification. The grocery-delivery startup Instacart said in June that it's switching hundreds of its personal shoppers from contract workers to part-time employees. And house-cleaning startup Homejoy announced in July that it was permanently shutting down after being sued over the classification of its workers. Several similar lawsuits have also popped up against other on-demand companies, including Postmates, Handy, Shyp and Washio.
Uber driver lawsuit settlement
Subscribe to the Apple Byte Podcast
SoundCloud | TuneIn
Google Play | YouTube | Livestream

Extra Crunchy show notes:
MACBOOK News:
Apple Updates MacBook with Latest Processors, Longer Battery Life & New Rose Gold Finish
New 12-Inch MacBook Tidbits: 15% Faster, 41.4-Watt-Hour Battery, Refurb Price Drop, and More
WWDC News:
Siri announces WWDC 2016 will be held June 13th through June 17th in San Francisco [Update]
WWDC Registration LINK
Apple Launches WWDC 2016 Ticket Lottery
OTHER APPLE News:
Apple Refers to OS X as 'MacOS' in Environmental Webpage Update
Apple to Release iPhone With Glass Casing and AMOLED Screen in 2017
Apple Seeds Second iOS 9.3.2 Beta to Developers With Night Shift and Low Power Mode Update
Jony Ive Designed a One-of-a-Kind Yellow iPad Pro for Charity
Apple CEO Tim Cook Named to TIME's Annual List of 100 Most Influential People
Social Networking:
Tweet at Brian Tong on Twitter
Tweet to Stephen Beacham on Twitter


With contribution from Stephen Beacham.
Sean Parker says social networks have made the Internet a crowded yet lonely place. But he's got a solution: another social network.
The first time Sean Parker tried to launch Airtime, he went big -- and it blew up in his face.
During a 2012 launch party packed with A-listers like Olivia Munn and Snoop Dogg, Parker's much-touted video-messaging app glitched. He eventually shelved Airtime when its popularity failed to match the hype.
Now, Parker is getting his do-over without the glitz.
On Wednesday, the Napster co-founder turned Facebook president turned billionaire Silicon Valley celebrity released a revamped version of Airtime. In an interview before the launch, Parker described his app as a solution for an increasingly crowded and yet impersonal Internet, a problem he blames, perhaps ironically, on the explosive rise of social networks.
"We talk about [Airtime] internally as restoring intimacy in a world where social has connected us to more people than ever and yet somehow we feel more lonely as a result of it -- or at least I do," Parker said. "It's maybe one of the unintended consequences of having a billion people on social media and having 300 or more, on average, friends or followers.
"Maybe I'm just old, or maybe I don't get high on my own supply," said Parker, the guy who helped Mark Zuckerberg turn Facebook into a global behemoth.
The new version of Airtime, which became available on iOS and Android devices on Wednesday, isn't like the original. Airtime 1.0 was a real-time, Web-based video-messaging service where people could chat one on one with friends or strangers.
But the latest iteration of Parker's app aspires to be a social network, one based almost entirely on real-time video. The premise of Airtime is the room, a virtual place in which users can share content -- be it Instagram photos, YouTube videos, Spotify playlists, Giphy gifs -- and enjoy them in real time together. (Here's a video of the product).
Airtime is built around the idea of virtual rooms where up to 250 people can simultaneously talk, text, share songs or videos.
"There's this huge gap in the world for a kind of multi-user, many-to-many synchronous consumption of content in groups that can either be public or private," said Parker. "All the things we could sit here and do in person we ought to be able to do virtually even if we're separated by great distances."
For Parker, the current crop of social media options aren't cutting it. Periscope, Meerkat and Facebook Live, for example, allow users to live stream. But he says people want the option of limiting what they broadcast to smaller, more private audiences.
Parker wouldn't like the comparison, but Airtime is like the lovechild of Facebook and Google Hangouts. But a major difference from those two: when you're using Airtime, your avatar is live video of you, so beware.
The mobile app allows you to create "rooms" where up to 250 people can simultaneously participate, in the form of talking, messaging or sharing content. Airtime's execs see the app's rooms being especially popular with smaller groups of friends wanting to experience private moments together.
"We see groups of girls, or at least we think they're girls, hanging out for hours on our product watching YouTube videos together," said Airtime Media President Daniel Klaus.
Parker and Klaus say their research has found this type of co-consumption of media is on the rise. And for Parker, this time around, the stakes couldn't be higher.
"Getting it right can be the difference between being the next-gen social platform that has a billion users or something that's a toy or a gimmick."
Searching for something more than search.

Google became one of the most powerful companies on the planet by addressing a once-in-a-generation problem: Make it easy for people to search for stuff online.
Now it's the one  doing the searching -- for the next big thing.
Alphabet, Google's parent company, is hard at work tinkering with a sweep of projects, from Wi-Fi-connected thermostats to nanoparticles for detecting cancer.
That kind of experimentation isn't cheap or quick. Sales from those projects, which Alphabet calls "Other Bets," brought in $166 million last quarter, up from $80 million a year earlier. But losses from those experiments widened to $802 million last quarter from $633 million this time last year.
Normally that wouldn't matter much, but pressure is sure to mount after the company's disappointing earnings report on Thursday. CEO Larry Page missed Wall Street's targets on both sales and profit.
"We're thoughtfully pursuing big bets," Ruth Porat, Alphabet's CFO, said in a statement. The company, she added, is also "building exciting new technologies, in Google and our Other Bets, that position us well for long-term growth."
In the first quarter, sales, minus the costs paid to advertising partners, totaled $16.46 billion. Profit, minus some costs, was $7.50 a share. Analysts expected $16.56 billion in sales and earnings of $7.96 per share.
Investors sent the shares down about 6 percent in late trading. They closed at $759.14. Overall, Alphabet's shares have been flat this year. Google sees this problem of looking beyond search and has tried to address it. The company announced a wide-ranging restructuring last year that chopped its divisions into smaller, quasi-independent companies. The goal was to allow those companies to be more nimble by removing lots of red tape. Basically, they could behave like startups.
The problem, as any entrepreneur will tell you, is that startups are hard.
Nest, the smart-home device company that Google bought two years ago for $3 billion, was once heralded as the model for how one of Google's "Other Bets" should run. It has a tech-celebrity CEO in Tony Fadell, the former Apple hardware guru who nurtured the first iPod. And it has real products in real stores (thermostats, smoke detectors and security cameras, sold at places like Best Buy and Amazon).
But recently there has been trouble at Nest. Its sales have reportedly fallen short of Alphabet's expectations. Fadell, a hard-charging type cut from Steve Jobs' cloth, is apparently grating on the nerves of some of his employees. In fact, Greg Duffy, co-founder of Dropcam, called the decision to sell his company to Nest in 2014 a "mistake." He left Nest last fall.
Asked about Nest on a conference call Thursday, Porat dodged the question, only saying that the company's products are "best sellers" in the category.
There's been other reshuffling too. Google once had outsize ambitions to build a future full of robots. Then project leader Andy Rubin, the creator of Android, left the company in 2014 to start Playground Global, a company that helps guide hardware startups. Last month, Bloomberg reported Alphabet was trying to sell Boston Dynamics, the robot company it bought in 2013. The firm made spectacular-but-terrifying robot prototypes but wasn't likely to produce a marketable product in the next few years.
Even though it missed the earnings estimates, Google proper -- the part of the company that controls its Internet businesses, like search and YouTube -- is still dominant.
Sundar Pichai, Google's CEO, said his team is investing heavily in next-gen search, even beyond phones. The next step is artificial intelligence. "In the long run, we will evolve from a mobile-first to an AI-first world," he said.
Google has seven different products with more than a billion users apiece: Gmail, search, the mobile operating system Android, the Web browser Chrome, maps, the marketplace Play and YouTube.
Here's something that puts it into perspective: Google is doing so well that the European Union thinks the company is using its success to tilt the playing field in its favor. Last year, the region's competition regulators formally charged Google with allegations that its search engine favors Google services like search over competitors. On Wednesday, the EU did the same for Android, formally charging Google with unfair business practices for forcing phone makers to install its apps in return for access to Google's Play Store.
While Alphabet tries to untangle all that, the costly and time-consuming search for the next big thing rolls on.
Update, 3:06 p.m. PT: Adds comments from Alphabet's conference call.
PlayStation Network will be adding an extra layer of password protection to stop hackers. (But with the massive security breach it faced five years ago, shouldn't have this been added sooner?)
CNET Update has the details on Sony's eventual addition of two-factor authentication for PlayStation users, along with news from Facebook. It seems the social network is becoming a bigger threat to Skype with group calling in Messenger. If you needed to do a large conference call, Facebook Messenger may be better than Skype or Google Hangouts:
The social network adds group calls to challenge Skype. Also, Sony finally adding a basic security feature to the PlayStation Network and Sega creates a hub for classic Genesis games.
Also in this tech-news roundup, the poor Xbox 360 finally faces the proverbial Red Ring of Death as Microsoft stops production of the older console. But you can comfort yourself in a warm blanket of gamer nostalgia with Sega's Genesis (aka Mega Drive) classic game hub on Steam, arriving next week.
CNET Update delivers the tech news you need in under 3 minutes. Watch Bridget Carey every afternoon for a breakdown of the big stories, hot devices, new apps and what's ahead. Subscribe to the podcast via the links below.
A cable box for every idiot box may become a thing of the past.
Comcast and its Xfinity cable service are looking to make it easier for customers to watch cable without a set-top box. Yet the timing of the change is just a tad questionable, coming soon after the Federal Communications Commission said it wants to open up the set-top box market and free folks from monthly payments for a cable box.
Also on the podcast, we debate the European Union's new claims that Google is abusing its dominance in phones and discuss some of the new words Merriam-Webster added to the dictionary.
The 3:59 gives you bite-size news and analysis about the top stories of the day, brought to you by CNET Executive Editor Roger Cheng (currently on parental leave), Senior Writer Ben Fox Rubin and Producer Bryan VanGelder.
MI6 reprimanded staff for using the surveillance database for personal reasons, according to newly published documents.
The UK's three major spy agencies have been covertly collecting personal data about British citizens en masse since the 1990s and haven't always followed their own protocols about its use, according to documents published online Thursday.
Privacy International, a rights group that has scrutinized the agencies since 2013, when whistleblower Edward Snowden revealed governments' widespread spying on average citizens, published almost 80 previously secret files from GCHQ, MI5 and MI6.
The files, released to the group in response to a legal complaint filed last year, provide new insights into an activity known as "bulk personal dataset" collection. The information comprises detailed medical, travel and financial records, communications data and the contents of emails and phone calls, even for people the agencies acknowledged in the documents are "unlikely to be of intelligence or security interest."
The newly published files reveal for the first time the extent of  the data collected on average UK citizens. While most people have known for a while that British intelligence agencies monitor communications, few realized that the agencies seek out, store and search data as personal as National Health Service records and signatures of online petitions. The documents also show that the data has been collected regardless of whether a citizen may pose a threat to national security.
"This data is integrated into databases that could be used to build detailed profiles about all of us," Millie Graham Wood, legal officer at Privacy International, said in a statement. "The agencies themselves admit that the majority of data collected relates to individuals who are not a threat to national security or suspected of a crime."
None of the agencies provided details to Privacy International about the number of British citizens  in the database. But internal memos contained in the documents reveal they include the families and friends of spy agency employees, as well as the staff members themselves.
Details of detected misuse of the personal data were reported in a newsletter -- part of the newly released documents -- that circulated internally among the Secret Intelligence Service, aka MI6, staff in September 2011.
"We've seen a few instances recently of individual users crossing the line with their database use for instance, looking up addresses in order to send birthday cards, checking passport details to organise personal travel, checking details of family members for personal reasons," the newsletter reads. "Another area of concern is the use of the database as 'convenient' way to check the personal details of colleagues when filling out Service forms on their behalf."
Staff members were reminded at the time, as well as in later memos, that misuse of the database could be illegal and could result in disciplinary action or dismissal.
Information about the existence of the data collection became public in a March 2015 report from the Parliament's Intelligence and Security Committee, which oversees the spy agencies. Committee members indicated in the report their concern over the absence of legal penalties for misuse of bulk personal datasets. The committee also noted that the data's collection had not been publicly acknowledged and that Parliament had not weighed in on privacy and safeguards. There was also concern that access to datasets didn't require approval from senior government ministers but was instead controlled internally.
MI5, MI6 and GCHQ did not respond to a request for comment.
A fleet of 24 autonomous pods are coming to public roads in the island nation of Singapore before 2016 is out. It's thanks to a joint venture between Netherlands-based pod producer 2Getthere and Singaporean transport operator SMRT, the Telegraph reports.
The pods run entirely on electricity and run completely autonomously. Using "artificial landmarks" for navigation, the fleet will be able to carry "up to 8,000 passengers per hour in any direction," 2Getthere's website explains.
"The [pods] system basically operates as a horizontal elevator," the company said. "The vehicles will stop at every station selected as a destination and where transport has been requested."
Intel has worked to diversify its businesses as PC sales keep slumping.
Intel, the biggest chipmaker in the world, said it will lay off up to 12,000 people as it responds to years of flagging PC sales. We talk about what Intel can do to right the ship in a world gone mobile.
We also hit on growing pains and glitches in the smart home and texting emojis for porn.
The 3:59 gives you bite-size news and analysis about the top stories of the day, brought to you by CNET Executive Editor Roger Cheng (currently on parental leave), Senior Writer Ben Fox Rubin and Producer Bryan VanGelder.
After a yearlong investigation, the European Union claims that Google pressures phone makers to preinstall Chrome and its search engine in exchange for Play store access.
Google is in hot water in Europe over Android.
The European Union's competition commissioner said Wednesday she is charging the search and mobile software giant with unfair business practices for forcing phone makers to install its apps in return for access to Google's Play Store.
The EU also maintains that Google requires manufacturers to preinstall its own search service and its Chrome browser, prevents them from selling devices running on competing versions of Android based on open source code, and gives financial incentives to phone makers and carriers that exclusively preinstall Google search.
The charges, announced in a press conference in Brussels, come after a year-long formal investigation into Google and its Android dominance.
"We believe that Google's behavior denies consumers a wider choice of mobile apps and services and stands in the way of innovation by other players, in breach of EU antitrust rules," Margrethe Vestager, head of the EU antitrust watchdog known as the European Commission, said in a statement of objection sent to Google.
Google has 12 weeks to respond.
EU Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager says she is determined to put consumers ahead of big companies.
The charges could have significant repercussions on the Google's phone business in Europe, forcing it to give phone manufacturers more say in which apps are preinstalled on Android phones.
Phones that run on Google's Android software come straight out of the box with a defined set of Google services such as a browser, search and maps. In its statement, the EU highlighted its concern that the company won't give phone makers access to the Play Store  if they don't make Google  Search the default search service and Chrome the default browser.
That's a problem, the EU said, because about 80 percent of the smart mobile devices in Europe  run on Android. That dominance and Google's licensing practices effectively limit rivals' ability to compete, according to the EU.
"It is one of my priorities to make sure consumers enjoy a wide range of platforms, products and services," Vestager said at the press conference Wednesday.
Google responded in a blog post, outlining "Android's open model of innovation."
"Android has helped foster a remarkable -- and, importantly, sustainable -- ecosystem, based on open-source software and open innovation," Kent Walker, Google's general counsel, said in the post. "We look forward to working with the European Commission to demonstrate that Android is good for competition and good for consumers."
This is not the first antitrust case Google has faced in Europe. It has already been ordered to change how its own shopping services appear in search results after another antitrust probe concluded Google was giving its own services preferential treatment. Google has fought back and resisted significant change. The case is ongoing.
US tech giants are definitely feeling the Bern. Google was the No. 1 employer of donors to Bernie Sanders' campaign, according to analysis of findings released by the Federal Elections Commission, racking up in excess of $250,000.
While the search giant clinched the top spot for employees who donated to the Democratic candidate's campaign, it was joined by other tech mainstays Microsoft, Apple and Amazon, which rounded out the top five.
It's a stark contrast to Hillary Clinton, his competitor in the Democratic race, and Donald Trump, the current Republican front-runner, who both have financial groups and unions populating their donor lists.
Still, it may seem odd that Google employees, among the best paid in their industry, are eager to support the socialist candidate campaigning against income inequality.
President Trump's decisions will have a long-term impact on Silicon Valley -- and on how all of us use tech.
Yahoo is exploring a sale of its Internet business.
This is a story about Yahoo's first-quarter earnings. But it's not really.
The Internet giant slightly beat Wall Street's expectations when it announced its financial results Tuesday. The problem is that nobody cares much about those numbers anymore.
Instead, the once-mighty Web portal-turned-media company is overshadowed by intrigue over its broader fate. Not too long from now, Yahoo, founded in 1995 by Stanford students Jerry Yang and David Filo, may no longer exist.
It could be bought. It could be chopped up for parts. It could be renamed.
And that's why today's financial report is only interesting because of what CEO Marissa Mayer is saying about the possible sale of Yahoo.
"Let me be unequivocal," Mayer during a conference call. "Our board, our management team and I have made the strategic alternatives process a top priority."
"Strategic alternatives" is investor-speak for a possible sale. For the past two months, Yahoo has been shopping itself around. Properties like Yahoo Mail, Yahoo Sports, Yahoo Finance and all the other stuff we think of as Yahoo may soon be bought.
Mayer didn't go into detail about possible buyers but said they are "some of the most well-known and respected names in the industry." Monday was the deadline for first-round bidders, and suitors reportedly include Verizon, YP -- formerly YellowPages.com -- and private equity firms like TPG.
Mayer said both she and CFO Ken Goldman have been meeting with interested would-be buyers and have "personally answered hundreds of questions" about the company.
Amid the gossip about who wants to buy what, Yahoo is still running a business, albeit one in decline. Sales fell to $1.087 billion from $1.22 billion a year ago. The number was roughly in line with analyst estimates. The company also beat profit expectations. Profit, minus some costs, was 8 cents a share. Analysts were hoping for 7 cents a share.
That financial snapshot is inside baseball, but what those numbers may point to is how much work a potential buyer will have to do to make Yahoo a winner again. Granted, Yahoo is still one of the most popular destinations on the Internet. It's the third most-trafficked site on the Web, after Google and Facebook, according to ComScore.
But Yahoo hasn't found a way to make much money off all that traffic. When it comes to display ads -- Yahoo's prime money maker -- Facebook and Google dominate. Together, Facebook and Google will account for nearly 40 percent of the worldwide market this year, according to eMarketer. Yahoo is expected to snag 1.7 percent.
Yahoo was once one of the brightest stars of the Internet. But mismanagement, a failed takeover bid by Microsoft a decade ago, and the changing ways of making money on the Web have gutted its business. Even though Mayer, an accomplished Google executive, took Yahoo's helm in 2012, investors believe the company is worth less than the money and assets it owns.
That doesn't mean Mayer hasn't taken steps to right the ship, including remaking all of Yahoo's sites for phones. But the shift isn't enough to excite consumers or investors.
Whatever the outcome, Mayer could come away with a big payday. If Yahoo is swallowed up in a buyout and she's dismissed from the company, Mayer would be owed $59 million, according to a report by The Guardian.
On Tuesday, Mayer said the company is working quickly through the process of sussing out a potential buyer.
"I personally believe that the right transaction could unlock tremendous value," she said.
Updated at 3:25 p.m. PT: Adds comments from Yahoo's conference call.
The Competition Bureau of Canada said Tuesday that it's no longer investigating Google's competitive practices. The agency, akin to the Federal Trade Commission in the US, said Google had already taken steps to ease the agency's concerns. The story was first reported by Reuters and other news sources.
"We're pleased that the Canadian Competition Bureau has decided to end its inquiry," Kent Walker, Google's senior vice president and general counsel, said in an emailed statement. "We work hard in a competitive landscape to create a great experience for our users and help them quickly and easily find what they need from Google."
The agency had filed a legal motion in 2013, saying Google had been using its search dominance to unfair advantage in the markets for online search and search advertising, and gave "preferential treatment" to its own services such as Google Maps and Google Flights.
"Specifically, the Bureau examined allegations that Google engaged in several practices intended to raise its rivals' costs, inhibit their ability to expand and generally make it more difficult for them to compete," the regulator said in a statement. The agency did find that Google included anticompetitive clauses in the terms and conditions for AdWords, which businesses use to advertise on Google, but said the company removed those clauses and promised not to reintroduce them for five years.
While dropping its probe, the regulator said it will continue to follow "Google's ongoing conduct."
The Competition Bureau declined to comment beyond its official statement.
It's not much to look at from the outside.
I'm on the London Underground headed to Heathrow Airport to catch a flight.  But instead of flying as a passenger, I'll be at the controls. And it's not even a plane; it's a Boeing 747 simulator at the British Airways Learning Academy.
BA's training campus is on the eastern edge of Heathrow next to the airline's enormous maintenance hangars. The training center's exterior is a monument to brutalism -- it reminds me a bit of the FBI's graceless J. Edgar Hoover building in Washington, DC. Inside, it feels a bit like the inside of the spaceship from "2001: A Space Odyssey." The 15 simulators (or sims) arranged in a row covering seven aircraft types all tower over a white polished floor that reflects the light shining from the arched white ceiling. It's spotless.
It's also packed with pilots and technicians preparing for sim flights, yet this massive room is quieter than I expected. BA's 3,800 pilots must take a two-day turn in the sims every six months to keep their flying skills sharp. Pilots from 50 other airlines train here too, keeping it busy pretty much every day of the year.
A committed aviation geek and 747 fan, I'm beyond eager to pilot one of these sims. My host is Mark Vanhoenacker, senior first officer for British Airways and author of "Skyfaring: A Journey with a Pilot," which Amazon describes as "A poetic and nuanced exploration of the human experience of flight" (see my interview with Vanhoenacker for more on his book).
Sims for BA's newest aircraft, like the Boeing 787 and Airbus A320, look like streamlined helmets. Those for older airliners, including the Boeing 767 and 747, are more angular, but sill pretty sleek.
Regardless of design, the sims move and shift on their hydraulic jacks. As we walk to our flight, I spot a 767 sim tilted back at an alarming angle, which Vanhoenacker tells me mimics the aircraft's ascent and acceleration by pressing you back against the seat (like you feel at takeoff when an airplane's engines rev to full power). The point, he says, is to keep things real.
Inside, the British Airways Global Learning Academy looks like a sci-fi film set.
The interior of our sim exactly matches the cockpit of a real 747-400 (the fourth main version of the airliner). It has the same control column, throttles, rudder/brake pedals and mass of switches lining the ceiling and center console. Produced from 1988 until 2005, the 747-400 was one of first commercial aircraft with a "glass cockpit" where electronic displays (first CRTs and later LCDs) replaced mechanical gauges to show flight information like altitude and speed.
After I strap into the captain's seat, Mark runs through the basic controls and tells the technician we're ready for takeoff. The sim door closes, the bridge to the walkway raises and the cockpit lights dim. After running through the preflight checklist, we're lined up at Heathrow's Runway 27 at dusk.
Each 747 simulator matches the cockpit in a real aircraft.
The computer-generated image showing through the windscreen really does look like a pilot's-eye view of Heathrow. Aircraft are parked alongside glowing terminals and the thin control tower rises in the distance. The sim's three projectors can be programmed to display 180-degree views of airports and landscapes around the world -- complete with full depth perception.
It's time to take off. Mark pulls back on the throttles and adjusts the flaps; my job is to keep the aircraft on the centerline of the runway and lift us into the air when he says, "Rotate." Sounds easy, right? Well, no.
At low speeds I steer the giant airliner using a tiller near my left knee. Then, as we accelerate down the runway, I switch to steering with the foot pedals (pressing the right pedal makes the nose wheel turn right and vice versa).
Getting the hang of how much pressure to apply to each pedal was a struggle that only got more difficult as we went faster. Driving instinct told me to steer with the control column, but that only earned a polite reminder to focus on my feet instead (the control column does nothing on the ground). Fortunately, the sim helps keep you stay aligned by bumping slightly each time you roll over one of the lights embedded down the runway's center. Just hold us there, Mark says, and we'll be fine.
On his order, I pull back on the control column for takeoff. And yes, it really does feel like we're moving -- there's even a slight lurch as the landing gear leaves the ground. Heathrow's Terminal 5 flashes by on my right and the engines whine as we begin our climb toward Berkshire. I see traffic moving smoothly on the M25 Motorway and the dark pool of the Wraysbury Reservoir.
We're up and away.
We're lined up to go on a virtual Heathrow runway.
Though you might think maneuvering a plane as big as a 747 (about 200 tons when empty) would take significant effort, it requires only a light tug on the control wheel and a press on the left rudder pedal to start a left turn. The horizon dips and I can see Heathrow come back into view.
As we fly toward the mass of lights that marks London, I get a tour of the critical instruments including altimeter, airspeed indicator, flight heading and primary flight display (your position relative to the horizon). My instructions are simple: Keep us steady at 4,000 feet while we approach the black expanses of Hyde Park. Mark mentions that I'm holding us nice and smooth. Maybe, he guesses, it's my background in tech.
We activate the automatic pilot (no, not that automatic pilot) so we can sight-see. Below I can see the Thames River snaking its way through the city and landmarks like the London Eye, The Shard, and the lights of London City Airport. The virtual display isn't 3D so raised landmarks flatten out as we fly over them, but otherwise it could have really been London on a clear night.
When it's time to return for landing, Mark instructs me to use the autopilot instead of the control column. I just need to twist a small knob and press a button to input the new compass heading, and the aircraft makes a broad turn over Olympic Park to its new heading.
Next, I have to disengage the automatic pilot by pressing a small button on the control column: once to give the command and a second time to confirm that's what I really want to do (critical actions like this require two steps). A short alarm tells me I have the control again and I lower the landing gear, something I'm oddly excited to do.
This is where things get tricky.
To keep us on course for landing, I have to watch the primary flight display and line up with three small pink diamonds that show the correct altitude and heading for Runway 27L. I match for the most part, with Mark helping just near touchdown. Then, at 50 feet above the ground, I pull up slightly on the control column -- and we're down with a bump. I find that the brake pedals are surprisingly stiff -- we're still going a bit too fast after a few seconds -- but nearly standing on them brings us to a stop close to where we started 30 minutes earlier.
A few minutes later, we're out in the bright lights of the real world. It's difficult to describe just how authentic it all felt, but that's exactly the point: Sims are "zero flight time"-approved, meaning that once pilots complete their initial simulator training, they can go straight to flying passengers on an actual aircraft. And while my flight was routine, the sims can depict a wide variety of weather conditions, flying scenarios and even the various engine types a 747 might have (the Rolls-Royce jets that BA 747s use, for example, sound and perform differently from the General Electric engines another airline might opt for). Some airports with difficult approach and takeoff procedures require sim time, as well.
My hour in the simulator was thrilling and nerve-wracking, in equal measure. As I travel the Underground back to London, I think about what I could have done better. And that makes me consider something else. Despite my love of flying, I've always been put off by the awesome responsibility of being a pilot. But now, just maybe, I'm changing my mind.
Airbnb doesn't want you to end up in the wrong 'hood.
Airbnb is getting hyper-local and hyper-personal.
The San Francisco-based startup launched an updated version of its app on Tuesday designed to better match customers with accommodation that meets their travel needs and preferences.
As well as bespoke accommodation matching, the service will also help customers identify neighborhoods in cities that will best suit them It will also give them access to digital guidebooks packed with recommendations crowdsourced from hosts.
Airbnb lists accommodation options in 34,000 cities in 191 countries and has become a catchword for an alternative to hotel stay. Its major selling point is that it provides a different travel experience to mass tourism by allowing people to stay in the homes of local hosts. This latest update reflects what it sees as its customer's desires to break free of cookie-cutter travel.
"The number one reason people chose to travel on Airbnb is they want to live like a local," said Airbnb Co-founder and CEO Brian Chesky in a statement. "Our hosts offer more than just generic hospitality - they welcome travellers from around the world into their communities."
When searching for properties, users will be prompted into "a conversation" with the app, which will encourage them to use specific filters. Airbnb is hoping that its app will gradually learn more about its customers as they use it so it can personalise suggestions according to accommodation type, price range and facilities.
The update should make it easier for customers to search through Airbnb's vast portfolio of properties. The same is true of discovering an appropriate neighborhood, which can otherwise be confusing for first timers visiting large metropolitan areas like Tokyo or London.
The app update will start to become available Tuesday across iOS and Android.
Apple upgrades its 12-inch MacBook and announces dates for WWDC. Meanwhile, Google bids goodbye to blob emojis in Android, and reports offer more clues on Sony's update to the PlayStation 4.
It may be another two months before Apple's WWDC event, but hey... there's a pink MacBook

.
Apple just boosted the hardware in the 12-inch MacBook (you know, the one that has one USB-C port to handle all your needs). Along with a faster processor and more battery life, it also is the latest Apple gadget to join the Rose Gold Club.
Meanwhile, Google gives its emoji family a different type of makeover. A preview of Android

 N shows off the new look of emoji, moving away from the no-gender blob butts and evolving into human form.
Also in this tech-news roundup, learn about YouTube's new 360-degree live videos, which you'll be able to check out this weekend with broadcasts from the Coachella music festival in California. And in case you were hesitant to uninstall QuickTime for Windows, Apple did confirm it has abandoned the software. That's going to be a headache for some Adobe users.
CNET Update delivers the tech news you need in under 3 minutes. Watch Bridget Carey every afternoon for a breakdown of the big stories, hot devices, new apps and what's ahead. Subscribe to the podcast via the links below.
Cord cutters are getting more choices these days.
Twitter and Yahoo want to become your online sports bar by offering live sports games for free. Watch CNET Update below to learn about Twitter's deal with the NFL and Yahoo's deal with MLB. Seems Roku has good timing with the arrival of a new streaming stick -- but too bad Starz didn't get its new subscription app on Roku:
Take me out to the...social network? Twitter will stream some Thursday Night Football games, and Yahoo is streaming select baseball games for free. Meanwhile, a new Roku stick goes on sale, and Starz joins the online subscription club.
CNET Update delivers the tech news you need in under 3 minutes. Watch Bridget Carey every afternoon for a breakdown of the big stories, hot devices, new apps and what's ahead. Subscribe to the podcast via the links below.
Lyft Line is arriving in six new cities next week.
Lyft, the ride-sharing company known for the bright pink mustaches on its drivers' cars, is launching its budget-friendly carpool option in Denver, Philadelphia, San Diego, San Jose, Seattle and Newark, New Jersey, over the course of the week. The expansion brings the service to a total of 15 cities across the US.
"Lyft's mission is to make our communities better by bringing positive change to transportation -- Lyft Line is the heart of that movement," said Logan Green, Lyft co-founder and CEO, in a blog post Tuesday.
Unlike a traditional Lyft rides, Line connects passengers going in the same direction and lets them split the cost of a ride. Each passenger gets dropped off at their set destination, so the ride may take longer than a private ride. Uber, Lyft's main competitor, offers a similar carpool service called UberPool that's available in a handful of US and international cities.
Line makes up nearly 40 percent of total rides where the service is available, Lyft said.
PayPal CEO Dan Schulman says the company will keep working to repeal the North Carolina law.
PayPal wants North Carolina to pay for its decisions.
The online payments company said Tuesday it will scrap plans to open a new 400-person global operations center in North Carolina, a direct response to a controversial new state law that forces transgender public school and university students to use bathrooms according to their biological gender.
"The new law perpetuates discrimination and it violates the values and principles that are at the core of PayPal's mission and culture," CEO Dan Schulman said Tuesday in a statement. "As a result, PayPal will not move forward with our planned expansion into Charlotte."
PayPal's decision adds to the fallout in North Carolina since the law was passed late last month. Schulman was among  	more than 90 business executives who spoke out against the law in a letter sent to Gov. Pat McCrory's office last week. Several companies have also moved to curb their business with the state, including filmmaker Lionsgate pulling production of a new Hulu show from Charlotte. Additionally, a federal lawsuit was filed last week, claiming that law violates the US Constitution, and the Obama administration is weighing whether to cut billions of dollars in funding to the state.
PayPal just two weeks ago revealed plans to employ more than 400 people at the new center.
Gov. McCrory's office didn't respond to a request for comment.
The lawsuit comes as Georgia Gov. Nathan Deal last month vetoed legislation in his state that would have strengthened legal protections for opponents of same-sex marriage. Deal killed off the bill after a public outcry and threats from major companies, including Salesforce.com, to take their business elsewhere. Amid the controversy, Mississippi Gov. Phil Bryant on Tuesday signed into law a similar religious freedoms bill. Many of these efforts have come as a response to the US Supreme Court's ruling last year that made same-sex marriage a right nationwide.
"PayPal made a wise decision to not put 400 of their employees in a state that might discriminate against them," said Eliza Byard, executive director of the national nonprofit GLSEN, the Gay, Lesbian & Straight Education Network. "It's another indication, coming through loud and clear, that discrimination is bad for business, it's bad for communities."
Schulman, a former American Express executive who became PayPal's CEO after it split from eBay last year, said his company will seek an alternative location for its operations center. He added that PayPal is committed to working with the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community in North Carolina to help overturn the law.
"Becoming an employer in North Carolina," Schulman said, "where members of our teams will not have equal rights under the law, is simply untenable."
Update, 2:27 p.m. PT: Adds comment from GLSEN's Eliza Byard.
Automated alt text for photos posted on Facebook.
Studies have shown that blind people often feel excluded or even isolated on social media when they're unable to fully join in on discussions around visual media. A new feature from Facebook hopes to fix that.
The company is expanding out its accessibility features with automatic alternative text -- a description of what's in an image -- being provided via new object recognition technology that the social network has been working on for months.
Back in the early days of the internet, the alternative text tag (or alt text tag) was an important part of putting your webpage together. The alt-text is what shows up when images broke or failed to load thanks to slow dial-up speed or if people were using a text-based web browser. (Yeah, they existed and you can still download the most popular one, Lynx, today.)
These days it's a largely forgotten art, but Facebook has used it in putting together a highly sophisticated system for object recognition in images. This means that blind or visually impaired users who access Facebook via screen readers (devices or programs that give an audio description of what's happening on a screen) will get short descriptions of the images people are posting.
According to Facebook, these could be as simple as "food, pizza" or as complex as "two people, smiling, sunglasses, outdoor, sky, water". All descriptions come with the short caveat "image may contain".
The company has been working on automatic alt text for around ten months now, and notes that around 2 billion photos are shared each day across Facebook, Instagram, Messenger, and WhatsApp. It follows Twitter recently allowing users to manually add alt text to their pictures to help out any visually impaired followers.
Currently, automatic alt text for Facebook is only available in English and only in the US, UK, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand. More importantly it only works with screen readers being used on an iOS device. Facebook says that will all change with more platforms, languages and regions coming soon.
The Model 3 is set to widen Tesla's customer base thanks to its more affordable price tag.
In just a matter of days, Tesla has secured a cool $276 million in deposits from people who preordered its newly unveiled Model 3 electric vehicle.
That translated to 276,000 reservations, with potential buyers plunking down $1,000 each, by the end of Saturday. It turns out people can't wait to get their hands on Tesla's first attempt at an affordable electric car. But they will have a wait. Deliveries are scheduled to begin in late 2017 and the vehicle is expected to cost at least $35,000. The preorder numbers so far work out to almost $10 billion worth of sales, assuming all those people buy one. With extra features, the average cost of a Model 3 could be $42,000, the company estimates.
Tesla has been at the forefront of redefining how electric vehicles are perceived, but up until now its cars have been priced far beyond what most people can afford (starting at around $70,000). The Model 3, though not exactly cheap, will help the company appeal to a new group of customers, who for the first time may find one of the sleek electric vehicles within their price range.
The real challenge for Tesla now will be delivering when it says it will. The company was three years late bringing its Model X car to market. Chief Executive Elon Musk tweeted Friday that he will have to "rethink production planning" in light of demand for the Model 3.
"We will need to build a factory in Europe to serve long-term regional demand as Fremont reaches max capacity," he said Sunday, referring to the plant in the San Francisco Bay Area.
In what he described as an "impromptu Twitter AMA," Musk answered customer questions over the weekend about Tesla. Here are some other things we learned:
The CEO hinted that there's even more to be excited about. In reply to a tweet, Musk said that if the preorder trend continues, he expects Tesla could more than double the number of cars reserved after "part two" of the Model 3 unveiling.
Who needs car keys when you can open the car door with a smile?
Toyota developed a program with Microsoft to explore new ways tech can be integrated in tomorrow's vehicles. Watch CNET Update below to learn how a connected car could make your commute a little easier:
The automaker is working with Microsoft to develop technology for tomorrow's cars, including a system that opens a door when it recognizes the owner. Also, Siri takes a swing at baseball stats, and there's trouble with some deliveries of virtual-reality headsets.
Also in this tech-news roundup:
CNET Update delivers the tech news you need in under 3 minutes. Watch Bridget Carey every afternoon for a breakdown of the big stories, hot devices, new apps and what's ahead. Subscribe to the podcast via the links below.
Airbnb is cracking down on San Franciscans who've turned their multiple homes into hotels.
A warning to those San Franciscans who've gotten into the illegal hotel business by offering short-term rentals on more than one home: Airbnb is after you.
The home-sharing site on Saturday said it's investigating hosts in the city with multiple listings and plans to give "unwelcome commercial operators" the boot.
The company, also based in San Francisco, released data showing the number of hosts with multiple listings in violation of the city's law restricting vacation rentals to permanent residents offering their own home. Excluded from the law are licensed hotels or rentals of more than 30 days, according to the San Francisco Chronicle, which first published the Airbnb data.
Airbnb is targeting 288 hosts for possible expulsion. They control 671 listings, about 7 percent of all San Francisco listings. But they made up 17 percent of the revenue brought in by San Francisco hosts between March 2015 and March 2016.
The crackdown follows years of criticism from locals in San Francisco and beyond who charge that Airbnb is contributing to tighter housing markets, with landlords taking rental units off the market to capitalize on short-term rentals instead. It also makes good on a community compact Airbnb issued in November vowing, among other things, to prevent people from listing properties other than permanent residences.
Also in November, voters in San Francisco, one of the most expensive housing markets in the country, rejected a proposition that would have imposed restrictions on how many days homeowners could rent their homes. Airbnb spent more than $8 million on a campaign to defeat the measure, angering many with some of the messages it used.
Airbnb said it's already been purging illegal listings in San Francisco: almost 100 in January 2016, 92 in June 2015 and 26 in September 2015.
"We know we have more work to do and this effort is just a first step of  their single listing," the company said in a blog. "Land use, housing  and real estate policies and challenges in San Francisco are unique.  This new approach is specifically designed for San Francisco and we will  continually look at this program to make sure it's working the way we  intend."
Some of the standout data in Airbnb's report about San Francisco's rentals.
Dear Silicon Valley: Maybe you should just give up on this April Fools' Day thing.
Technology companies think they are clever by putting out fake news announcements on April 1. But these days, tech companies are so out of touch that even the real gadgets can sound like a joke. In this CNET Update, put your fool-spotting to the test and see if you can tell the real products from the pranks:
Tech companies love putting out joke announcements on April Fools' Day, but sometimes real products sound like jokes. See how good you are at telling them apart.
And if you're hungry for more foolishness, check out this slideshow of other tech company "jokes."
CNET Update delivers the tech news you need in under 3 minutes. Watch Bridget Carey every afternoon for a breakdown of the big stories, hot devices, new apps and what's ahead. Subscribe to the podcast via the links below.
Today  Russ and Jeff take a look at Quantum Break, the unique videogame and TV  show hybrid. They'll also contemplate joining the Tesla Model 3 waiting  list and discuss a few weird analog hobbies.

Download today's podcast
Subscribe to our wonderful program:
Russ's new podcast: The West Wing History Class
Follow everyone on Twitter!
File any hateful or insightful comments at our show thread over at our subreddit:  	 	reddit.com/r/the404.

Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
And down goes Swift.
There was a time when Taylor Swift wanted Apple to fall on its face.
Cupertino wasn't going to pay artists royalties during the three-month trial period of Apple Music. (La Swift won the fight, of course.)
Now, here she is falling on her face for Apple Music. How swiftly times change in the music business.
In a new ad released on Friday, Swift gets on a treadmill, puts on her Beats headphones, selects Drake and Future's "Jumpman" on Apple Music, raps and runs.
Rapping and running takes skill.
Sadly, this is one of the skills Swift doesn't possess. Calamity ensues.
It's choreographed even better than her music videos. It's very funny, too. We all love to see people fall over -- especially famous people.
For her part, Swift announced on Twitter that this wasn't some made-up tale of twisted symbolism, concocted by Apple Music executives to show her who's boss.
"Based on true events," she tweeted. Of course, this being released on April Fool's Day might mean that Swift herself didn't actually do the falling, or it may not have been based on any true events at all. This hardly matters when something is amusing.
Apple Music and Swift have reached a peculiar level of coordination. Just before Christmas, her face and body were plastered over every computer screen at Apple stores.
It's as if she's suddenly become the principal spokesperson for attracting more people to the streaming service, which currently boasts 11 million subscribers to Spotify's 30 million.
Still, the message here is that Apple Music is "distractingly good." It may be. But how is it different?
Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
It's a very different show now, isn't it, Tim? Apple's a very different brand.
The rebel has turned to kindness.
The challenger has begun to look like Big Brother, even as it's fighting the forces of Even Bigger Brother.
It's tempting to think that Apple's persona hasn't really changed in the 40 years since that whole Steve J.-Steve W. startup thing.
But it has, and how.
So many accusations have been leveled at Silicon Valley for using marketing to mesmerize consumers into buying products that were neither magical nor revolutionary.
The phrase "reality distortion" was used often in Steve Jobs' day. He was to some a hoodwinker who, if there was a problem with the antenna of an iPhone, told you it was obviously your fault. You were holding it wrong.
In marketing, the company began as a rebel. Its us-against-the-world phase was defined by the "1984" ad taunting IBM that ran only once and by the long-running "Get A Mac" campaign mocking Microsoft.
Apple was mock 'n' roll.
Through artistry and wit, Apple showed itself to be young, cool and human -- everything technology was not.
The products themselves carried far more of the marketing burden than did the advertising, which offered a pristine white background, played some interesting music and then swiftly got out of the way. Every time you saw the brilliant, stylish, humanistic design of Apple's gadgets, you were hooked on the brand.
The rebel was making you feel something. And it was something good. It was something else entirely when your office forced you to use some dull old clunk they called a PC.
For years, competitors such as Microsoft had no instinctive understanding of Apple's brand benefits because they were run by diehard nerds for whom power and specs were all.
It's different now.
Apple is a much bigger brand, often voted the most admired in the world. But as its reach has extended across the globe, as its volumes and profits have skyrocketed, its marketing has become slightly recessive.
If I asked you to name a memorable Apple ad from the last five years, I think you'd struggle. I struggle.
Perhaps the best was the 2013 Christmas ad featuring an apparently rebellious, self-absorbed kid who isn't so inhuman after all. A fine metaphor for the company, perhaps.
Far more often now, Apple is the brand that gets mocked. Yes, even by Microsoft. The biggest global brands tend to become the biggest global blands.
So Apple is softer. It's constantly spreading warmth, featuring far more humans in its ads. It's still relying on its staged events and, almost Trump-like, on the media's constant need to write and speculate about it. But there's a deeper change underlying it all.
The forceful entry by CEO Tim Cook into fighting for social justice and privacy are far stronger pieces of marketing than any ad Apple produces these days. They're statements of intent and show a humanistic understanding of the directions in which American society -- and especially younger generations -- are moving.
The company has never been fond of social media. Apple Support only recently opened a Twitter account. If you look at the viral success of ads, Samsung is trouncing Apple. Where the Korean company offers Lil' Wayne, Apple musters the far less edgy Jamie Foxx. Oh, and Selina Gomez.
It's staggering, therefore, that an overwhelming majority of teens crave an iPhone above all other brands. It's even more staggering when you consider that Apple's phones have lost some originality in design, whereas some of Samsung's -- especially the Galaxy S7 Edge -- are visually more innovative.
Even Apple's events have become softer self-parodies of what went before. You can't expect showmanship from Cook. Times have changed. Think different, indeed.
At 40, a bulkier Apple is much less the rebel of its youth and more the establishment figure throwing its weight around.
The brand still defends style, as you can see from its hiring of designer Marc Newsom and former Burberry CEO Angela Ahrendts. You can even see it in new store designs that eliminate the Genius Bar.
In sheer power, it hasn't lost its edge. It's just lost its edgy. The Apple brand has edged away from revolution and moved closer to Coke.
It's real, it's global, and it's warm, and the only brand it's going to mock these days is the FBI. (Though Apple's global marketing chief, Phil Schiller, still thinks anti-PC jokes are funny.)
This is an opportunity for a new brand to come in and rebel against this bigger, more corporate Apple.
That's one of the biggest conundrums of the tech world. Apple is 40 but there's no young, rebellious pretender to Apple's throne at all.
Today, Apple hits the big 4-0.
That's officially "over the hill," according to Urban Dictionary. (Sorry, everyone 40 and over!) For some, hitting that milestone causes mild panic and even a midlife crisis. Apple won't be blowing its billions on Porsches (well, except for the rumors it's working on a self-driving car), but the birthday seems fitting for a company in a more, shall we call it, mature stage of life.
Apple's no longer the brash, hippie company that introduced the Macintosh computer in 1984 as part of its mission to create "bicycles for the mind." And it isn't the struggling organization that was on the verge of bankruptcy when Steve Jobs returned to run it in 1997 and urged people to "Think Different."
The world's most well-known tech company turns 40 this week. CNET looks at the legacy of Apple and where the tech giant is headed in the next 40 years.
The Apple of today is a grown-up company with hundreds of millions of customers actively using more than a billion of its products. It has a broader product lineup than at any other time in its history and it's the most valuable company on the planet, with a market cap of $604 billion.
Apple's on top of the world. But is it at the top of its game?
"When you're 40, you've been around the block a few times," said Carolina Milanesi, an analyst with Kantar Worldpanel. "It's not just about being exciting. It's about being conscious you have a large installed base of users, and you need to look after them."
Right now, it seems like all the exciting stuff is happening outside Apple's home address of 1 Infinity Loop. Microsoft -- the company Apple has portrayed as stodgy over the years -- wowed us again this week with its HoloLens augmented reality headset. On Monday, Facebook's Oculus took a big step forward with its Rift virtual reality system. Tesla and Google are leading the charge in car innovations, and Amazon is at the center of the smart home with its Alexa digital voice assistant.
Apple typically isn't the first company to move into new markets, and it takes advantage of established -- but not yet mature -- technology to create a more polished product.
"Steve [Jobs] had this saying, they invest in 'springtime technologies,'" said Regis McKenna, the famed PR and marketing executive who helped launch the Mac and advised Jobs till the Apple co-founder's death in 2011.
A longstanding question is whether Apple can do it again without Jobs.
Apple didn't have a comment but referred CNET to recent remarks from CEO Tim Cook about his excitement for what's to come.
BlackBerry, Nokia, Sony and even Microsoft worried so much about protecting their legacy products that they missed the move to the next big thing. Apple, though, hasn't been afraid of disrupting itself. The iPhone, released in 2007, decimated demand for the iPod. Apple pushed the iPad even though the tablet could have eaten into Mac sales.
"[Apple] doesn't hesitate to cannibalize themselves if there's a better product out there," said Ralph de la Vega, vice chairman of AT&T, who helped broker the deal that gave the wireless carrier exclusive rights to sell the iPhone upon its debut.
But Apple now generates more than two-thirds of its sales from the iPhone. At 40, you may be less willing to take risks.
The iPhone helped Apple report the biggest quarterly profit of any company. But things are slowing down. iPhone sales likely dropped for the first time ever in the March quarter (Apple releases financial results later this month), and they might even fall for the entire year.
"The markets in which Apple's operating have changed and have matured quite significantly," Jackdaw Research analyst Jan Dawson said. "It's about incremental improvements, new features that add value, then branching out into new categories."
Minor upgrades" That's where the iPhone SE comes in. The 4-inch device, which hit stores on Thursday, looks exactly like the 3-year-old iPhone 5S but sports updated components. And starting at $399, it's nearly 40 percent cheaper than Apple's flagship iPhone 6S.
Minor updates may keep the iPhone engine humming, but to last another 40 years, Apple has to look beyond.
Cook has made some moves into new markets, like wearables with the Apple Watch and mobile payments with Apple Pay. Both are making strides with modest adoption.
The iPhone SE is released on March 31, but the 4-inch phone isn't entirely new. Here's what it borrows from all the other iPhones in the family.
And the company is sure to also branch into new areas like smart home technology and health care. Whether Apple makes a self-driving car or simply develops the infotainment and control system, autos represent another big opportunity. Then there's virtual reality and augmented reality, which Cook has said are "really cool."  Apple could also make a play in artificial intelligence and robots -- and countless other areas we probably can't even imagine today.
But Steve Wozniak, Apple's co-founder and one of its most loyal fans, expressed some worries in a recent Reddit AMA. While he loves his Apple Watch, he noted that the only difference among the models the company offers is your choice of a band.
"This isn't the company that Apple was originally, or the company that really changed the world a lot," Wozniak wrote. "So it might be moving, but you've got to follow, you know. You've got to follow the paths of where the markets are."
Ultimately, Apple needs to "stay hungry," said Clement Mok, one of Apple's first creative directors and part of the team that launched the Mac. "As long as they stick to their core hippie values and challenge the status quo, I think they'll be around for a long time."
This story is part of CNET's coverage of the 40th anniversary of Apple's founding. For more stories in this package, click here.
When Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak started Apple Computer Inc. on April 7, 1976, they wanted to build computers for everyone. The journey wasn't always smooth, but Apple's iPod, iPhone and iPad have become tools for the masses. Today, Apple, with more than 1 billion of its devices actively used across the globe, is the biggest company in the world. Here's our look at Apple as the company turns 40.
Whether Apple was actually started by two guys in a California garage may be debatable, but what's certain is that the pioneering computer maker turned consumer electronics juggernaut has come a long way.
Four decades after Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak set out to turn  computers into a tool that anyone could use, Apple has become the most valuable brand in the world, with some of the most successful products ever made.
Apple has shaped countless industries, from computing to music, and its former employees have gone on to innovate and create new tech industries around everything from enterprise software to smart thermostats.
At its heart, Apple has always been about creating elegant, easy-to-use products we never even knew we wanted.
See the big moments when Apple took the stage to announce some of its greatest products.
"It was love at first sight when I first encountered the Apple II at the inaugural West Coast Computer Faire in April 1977," said Andy Hertzfeld, one of the original members of the Macintosh team who designed the system's software. "I continue to be thrilled by new Apple products to this day."
"It's sad that Steve isn't around to celebrate the 40th," Hertzfeld added. "But he still lives on in Apple's values and products, which will hopefully continue to thrive for the next 40 years and beyond."
Other former Apple executives and partners shared their favorite memories of the company and Jobs, who was, to many people, the driving force behind its success. They include former finance execs Debi Coleman and Susan Barnes, ex-Apple designer Clement Mok, technical visionary Alan Kay, chief evangelist Guy Kawasaki, and Jobs' marketing mentor, Regis McKenna.
Here's what they had to say.
Apple's first success came from the Apple II computer, and it tried to follow that up with the Lisa. But early Apple became better known for another computer, the Macintosh. The Mac started as a research project in the late '70s with only four employees before becoming Jobs' pet project by January 1981.
There was a lot of competition between the Apple II, Lisa and Mac teams. For one off-site retreat, the Mac group, which flew the pirate flag over its offices,  had gray hoodies printed up. They read: "90 hours a week. And loving it," in a red and black font, recalled Coleman, who joined Apple in 1981 as finance controller for the Mac.
Every member of the Mac team, about 100 people at that time, got the hoodie. It was a hit. (See the photo, courtesy of Mok, at the top of this story.)
"Within a week of coming back [from the retreat], the Lisa group had a shirt that said 'Working 70 hours a week. And shipping product,'" Coleman said. "A week later, the Apple II group, which was making all the money hand over fist, had a shirt that said, 'Working 50 hours a week. And making profits."
"Who knew it was going to cause a reaction across the entire campus?" Coleman added.
She became head of Mac manufacturing in 1984 and was one of the highest-ranking women in the tech industry. She took over the role of Apple chief financial officer in 1986. At a November reunion of some women on the Mac team, Coleman attributed a big part of Apple's success to Jobs, saying he made people at Apple believe they could change the world.
As he was getting ready to launch the Mac, Jobs wanted the computer "to look and feel like The Beatles. Not the late Beatles, but the early Beatles," remembered Mok, a designer hired by Apple to work on branding for the Mac launch. "Tom Hughes [the creative director on the Mac team] and myself scratched our heads. What the hell is that?"
They decided it meant there was a certain rawness to the Mac, but with a sense of passion and artistry. "It's an artistic expression of technology," said Mok, who joined Apple in 1982. "This product has been crafted."
The branding for the first Mac featured a squiggly line drawing of the computer, later dubbed the "Picasso logo."
(They were so successful in giving Apple a Beatles feel that Apple Corps, the company that owned the rights to the Beatles music, sued the Cupertino, California, company for trademark infringement. The two sides had a long-running legal tussle, but ultimately reached a settlement in 2007 and in 2012 sorted out ownership of the logo.)
Mok became co-manager of Apple Creative Services in 1985 and served as creative director for corporate and the education market. He's one of the people responsible for the iconic imagery of Apple in its marketing and packaging, including the squiggly line drawings gracing early Mac promotional materials.
But one aspect of the Mac, that squiggly line design, didn't feel as much like The Beatles to Mok as it felt like Joni Mitchell. Jobs wanted to mimic the logo for the now-defunct Ciao Restaurant in San Francisco's Financial District.
"I tried but couldn't for the life of me put it together," Mok recalled. Apple ended up hiring the man who created the Ciao logo in the first place, John Casado. What came from the team is what's known as the Macintosh Picasso logo.  Some branding elements from the first Mac live on today, including the minimalist white packaging used for Apple's devices.
Early Apple employees, most in their 20s and 30s, were given big responsibilities.
"Steve used to have a saying, 'We hire smart people to tell us what to do, not hire them to tell them what to do,'" said Susan Barnes, who joined Apple in 1981 as financial controller of the Mac division.
She worked closely with Coleman in her early days at Apple and ended up reporting directly to Jobs for a decade. Barnes co-founded NeXT Computer with Jobs in 1985 and became its CFO.
At one point in early 1985 while still at Apple, Jobs called Coleman and Barnes on a Friday night and said he wanted to buy a chunk of Adobe Systems. Apple and Adobe were closely linked in their early history, with the two working together to develop desktop publishing technology.
"It's something we really needed in the Mac days," Barnes said of Adobe's software and fonts. "Laser printing is something that really made the Mac take off."
Barnes and Coleman went to the law library late at night, trying to figure out how to buy a stake of another company. "How do we do this?" Barnes said. "This is usually what you ask senior management. And we were like, 'Oh, we are senior management.' It sort of hit you."
Apple ended up investing $2.5 million for a 19.99 percent stake in Adobe in early 1985. In 1989, it sold the stake, which had been diluted to about 16 percent, for $84 million.
"When you're in corporations later, it's so easy to hide behind, 'Let me check with that person,'" Barnes said. At Apple, it was  "No, it's you. Let's just do it. Find a way and don't be afraid of the consequences."
Jobs recruited John Sculley in the early 1980s to help him grow Apple as a company. Sculley was CEO of Pepsi and helped it overtake Coca-Cola as the top beverage maker. Jobs famously convinced Sculley to take the CEO role at Apple in 1983 by asking if he wanted to "sell sugar water for the rest of his life" or if he wanted to "come with me and change the world." Sculley, who was close with Jobs before ousting him in 1985, served as Apple's CEO for a decade until being forced out himself.
In the fall of 1983, Sculley, Jobs, other Apple executives and two members of the Chiat/Day advertising firm -- Lee Clow and Steve Hayden -- were brainstorming about the Mac launch campaign. Business Week had run a cover story that week saying, "The winner is IBM."
"We hadn't even come out with the Mac, so we were all a little bit down in the dumps," Sculley said. "What can we do that will stop the world and get people to pay attention to the fact the game wasn't over? It hadn't even started yet."
The group started talking about the big things that would happen in 1984, and the obvious reference to George Orwell's dystopian novel, "1984," came up. They debated, thinking that many marketers might play off the "1984" reference. But they hoped to get the leap by coming out with something in January -- perfect timing with the Super Bowl.
Steve Jobs and John Sculley worked together closely in the early years of Apple but only spoke one other time after Jobs was ousted from the company in 1985.
"If we do something absolutely heart-stopping on the launch in January, then we'll preempt it, and nobody else will want to use it because it will look like they've stolen the idea," Sculley said.
The Chiat/Day executives had a week to come up with a campaign like "no one had ever seen before." The 60-second "1984" commercial they created turned out to be one of the most celebrated ads of all time.
But Apple's board hated it. "At the end of the 60-second commercial, there was dead silence in the room," Sculley said. "Two directors put their heads on the table. Then they turned to me and said, 'You're not going to run that, are you?' I said, 'Absolutely. It's the best commercial I've ever seen.'"
The commercial cost $500,000 to produce, which was about five to 10 times the normal expense, Sculley said. And Apple paid $1 million for 2 minutes of airtime during the Super Bowl. The board told Chiat/Day to sell the time, but they could only offload 1-minute, so the commercial ran.
"We ended up getting $45 million of estimated free advertising because the networks kept running it over and over in its full length," Sculley said. "It turned out to be an amazing start for the Macintosh."
Apple knew the first Mac wouldn't succeed unless there was software for it. Getting developers to write software for the computer fell to Guy Kawasaki, who joined Apple in 1983 as the Mac's first chief evangelist.
"It was easy to get people to begin writing software because we were breaking new ground for the marketing of computers and opening a new market for computers," he said. "We provided a good alternative to the IBM PC and ... developers could write software they always dreamed about writing."
But it wasn't easy to get developers to actually finish writing their software. They were working with an immature platform and dealing with the Mac's new graphical user interface.
Steve Jobs was ousted from Apple in 1985 but returned in 1997.
Kawasaki avoided Jobs as much as he could because Jobs "scared the shit" out of him. One day, Jobs came to Kawasaki's cubicle to introduce him to someone and to ask Kawasaki what he thought of a company. "I say, 'It's mediocre, and the product is crap,'" Kawasaki said. "At the end of my diatribe, he says, 'This is the CEO of the company.'"
"I passed the Steve Jobs test," Kawasaki added. "Probably he knew the company was crap. If I had said it was great, it could have been my last day at Apple."
Kawasaki ended up leaving Apple in 1987 to start his own company. He returned as an Apple Fellow in 1995, "when Apple was supposed to die."
"The very fact they brought me back was because the cult was dying," Kawasaki said. Getting people excited about Apple again "wasn't easy, but it also wasn't impossible."
"There's a core of people who never lost faith in Apple," Kawasaki said. "Apple is a religion."
When Jobs left Apple in 1985, he started NeXT, a new computer company focused on workstations for universities, financial institutions and other businesses. While the computer didn't sell well (PCs running Microsoft Windows were the most popular at the time), NeXT had very interesting software.
"Steve called me and he said, 'Hey, I'm starting this new company. It's an amazing computer for education,'" said Tom Suiter, who served as Apple's first director of Creative Services and helped launch the Mac in 1984. He left Apple after Jobs' departure in 1985 but kept in touch with Apple's co-founder over the years. That included the time Jobs was setting up NeXT.
Suiter remembers his conversation with Jobs about naming the new company.
"I said, 'Congrats, it's great. What are you going to call it?'
Jobs said: 'Two.'
I said: 'What do you mean?'
Jobs said: 'It's my second company.'
I said: 'Everybody's going to go, what happened to one?'
Jobs said: 'That's exactly why I'm talking to you. I need some help.'
I said, 'Let me think about it.'"
That weekend, Suiter flew to Seattle to attend a CD-ROM conference hosted by Microsoft and keynoted by co-founder Bill Gates. "I could not believe how many times he was using 'next' in such a positive way. I counted them up and said 'next' would be a cool name for a company."
When Suiter got home on Sunday, he called Jobs and said he had the perfect name for his new company.
"He goes, 'Hey, what is it?'
I said, 'It's NeXT.' There was like this silence.
Then he said,' I love it!'
The rest is history ... The irony is it actually came from the mouth of Bill Gates to help Steve."
Suiter never told Jobs his inspiration for the NeXT name. "It probably would have diluted the brilliance of what the name was," he said, laughing.
Microsoft didn't just unwittingly help out Apple. It also invested $150 million in the company in the summer of 1997 to keep Apple afloat as it was close to going out of business. As part of the deal, Apple made Microsoft's then-underdog Internet Explorer the default browser for the Mac. And Gates agreed to develop future versions of Microsoft Office and development tools for the Mac -- an arrangement that helped Apple win over customers tied to Microsoft's software.
Jobs hired Suiter again in 1998, while Suiter was at Silicon Valley advertising agency CKS Group,  to lead marketing communications for all Apple products, including the launch of the iMac.
In the 1970s, Alan Kay, one of the fathers of computing, worked at Xerox PARC, the Palo Alto, California-based research group that inspired the Mac user interface and other early Apple products. Kay joined Apple in 1984, a few months after the Mac was unveiled.
Kay famously said "the best way to predict the future is to invent it."
He remembers Jobs' ouster by Apple's board of directors and the company's struggle to recover:
"It is not easy to summarize 'what could have beens' and 'what should have beens' because Steve both had some vision and was also seriously nutty along a number of lines. He and I were friends despite this -- as much as he could have a friend.
It's the age-old question: Mac or PC? CNET captured these reactions when the debate was a hot-button issue in the mid-nineties. Watch this archival footage of users sounding off on which platform was better.
"A few years later I was contacted by some long-standing colleagues in computer graphics -- who were then at Lucasfilm, and wanted to get out. I drove up to NeXT and briefed Steve on these folks, and then I took Steve up to Marin County to meet the people who became Pixar. The funding of Pixar and hanging in with the serious talent they had was almost certainly Steve's finest period."
Kay, however, has been critical of Apple's reinvention after Jobs returned to Apple in 1997.
"The return of Steve to Apple and his transformation of the company into one mainly aimed at consumer marketing, was only successful from a business standpoint. The ideals that Apple had in the early '80s about 'wheels for the mind' were now long gone ...
"I talked with Steve off and on since then until his death, and he would periodically send me stuff for my opinion, invite me to product openings, etc.
"I would periodically try to get him back to being 'centrally serious' about education, etc. I once tried to get him to remember what he had said to John Sculley to get him away from Pepsi ('Do you want to sell sugar water all your life, or do you want to change the world?') -- the point being that Steve's largest preoccupation after coming back was to get Apple to be a success primarily by selling 'sugar water' to consumers!"
When Jobs and Wozniak were starting Apple, they knew they needed savvy marketing and public relations help to launch the world's first personal computer. They liked Intel's campaigns so asked the chipmaker who was doing work for it. Intel told them it was Regis McKenna.
That began a relationship between Jobs and McKenna that lasted from 1976 until Jobs' death in 2011. McKenna's firm, Regis McKenna Inc., helped launch the Mac in 1984. Though the formal relationship between the firm and Apple ended in the early 1990s, McKenna stayed close with Jobs and spoke with him about once a month for the duration of the Apple co-founder's life.
That included the period after Jobs' return to Apple. Jobs rejoined Apple in February 1997 after the company bought NeXT for $429 million and he was asked to serve as a consultant to then-CEO Gil Amelio. Less than five months later, Jobs convinced the board to fire Amelio and name him interim CEO.
"He went from when he had no position on the board and was not an adviser and ended up taking over the company," said McKenna. "Those people,  Amelio and others, quite frankly, didn't know what hit them."
Jobs didn't stay interim CEO for long. But he faced a daunting task. "Apple was in horrible shape," McKenna said. Jobs "wasn't sure he could fix it. People don't realize it took several years for him to get it off the ground. It didn't just happen."
"They cut out 50 percent or 60 percent of the products being developed," McKenna said.
Most people involved with Apple's early years never expected it to grow as big as it is today, Jobs among them. After he returned to Apple and it was successful and growing, "one of the things he said was, 'Funny how things turn out.'" McKenna said.
"He was just reminiscent. It surprised him. He didn't expect these things...Up until a product was successful, he always questioned if it was good enough. He never felt, when he launched a product, [that it was good enough] but he would sell it as if it were. In fact, he always felt there could be more or better [features]. His comment of 'funny how things turn out' was a sort of comment by him that it all surprised him."
Apple's colorful iMac line, and Jobs' close relationship with designer Jony Ive, helped the company recover from near-death. Tim Bajarin, a longtime industry analyst focused on Apple, remembers what Jobs vowed to do to save his company when he first returned to Apple.
"When Steve came back to Apple, I met with him the second day he came back," said Bajarin, who began following Apple in 1981 for the firm Creative Strategies. "I asked, 'How are you going to save Apple?' The first thing he said was, 'I'm going to go back and take care of the core needs of our customers -- engineering and graphics designers. I'm going to go back and make sure we take care of those customers.' The next generation of the Mac was more powerful and had more support for that particular group.
"Then he told me -- at the time what I thought was one of the craziest things I'd heard -- that 'I'm going to concentrate on industrial design.' I remember walking away and saying, 'How in the world is industrial design going to save Apple?' As you know, it ended up being a core tenet of Apple's success. A year later, Apple introduced the candy colored, all-in-one Apple iMacs."
Ive became the lead designer behind Apple's most important products, including the iPhone. Cook named him chief design officer a year ago. Bajarin, meanwhile, continues to follow Apple for Creative Strategies.
Ron Johnson, the company's onetime retail chief, said one of his most notable memories at Apple was the opening of the first Apple Store in McLean, Virginia. He remembered the moment exactly: May 19, 2001, at 10 a.m.
Johnson helped dream up the concept of the stores' bright, simple look with long wooden tables holding a handful of Apple devices that people could test. The design was a departure from the typical stores, with aisles and aisles of shelves filled with products. Apple's retail approach has since been copied by others, including Microsoft.
Thirty minutes before the first store opened, Johnson got a call from Jobs, who asked how many people were in line outside. Johnson told him there were about 50 customers. Unhappy with the low turnout, Jobs said they should've marketed the opening -- the company sent out an email and press release but hadn't done any advertising. Johnson assured Jobs folks would show up.
We take a trip down memory lane to pay tribute to the personal computers and iDevices that grew into the gadgets we use today.
By the time the store opened, there were 1,500 people in line.
"It went from 50 people to 1,500 in a 30-minute period of time," Johnson said. "It was really fun."
Now with over 460 Apple Stores worldwide, Apple's stores have become hubs for fans to camp out, often waiting in long lines for the newest gadgets to go on sale. While many other retailers are closing locations amid weak store traffic, Apple Stores bring in the highest sales per square foot of any retail locations in the US, according to eMarketer.
Johnson said Jobs sought to create retail stores "so we can market innovation face-to-face" with customers. Johnson saw that mission in full effect when he witnessed the iPhone launch in 2007. He was among a huge crowd at the company's iconic Fifth Avenue store in Manhattan.
"It really showed Steve's genius at its peak," Johnson said. "It was the marriage of an incredible product strategy with the ability to communicate with an unparalleled customer experience."
What impact has Apple had on society? You can see it when an 8-year-old boy swipes at a microwave screen, puzzled that nothing happens. You can't really fault him. After all, we all instinctively use our fingers and gestures to control our phones and computers, so why not other gadgets with big screens?
That child's uncle, AT&T Vice Chairman Ralph de la Vega, can trace our reliance on our fingers back to the first time Jobs showed him the iPhone, which he calls his "aha moment." He was one of the first people to see the device and had to sign a nondisclosure agreement, vowing not to tell anyone about the phone including the CEO and board of AT&T --  or his wife.
De la Vega's first question when seeing the iPhone was "Where's the stylus?"
"[The iPhone] dramatically changed how users interfaced with the device," de la Vega said. "It really highlights how it changes the expectations of people."
While there had been touchscreens before the iPhone, Apple was the first to show the benefits of ditching a stylus, a move that had a massive impact on the tech industry. Without Apple, we might all still be mashing physical buttons.
"Apple accelerated the pace so dramatically it changed everything," de la Vega said.
AT&T became the first wireless carrier to sell the iPhone, something that helped the carrier attract millions of customers. And the iPhone has helped Apple become the biggest company on the planet.
On to the next 40.
CNET's Roger Cheng and Ben Fox Rubin contributed to this report.
This story is part of CNET's coverage of the 40th anniversary of Apple's founding. For more stories in this package, click here.
Update, 4 p.m. PT: Added an anecdote from Tim Bajarin.
When Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak started Apple Computer Inc. on April 7, 1976, they wanted to build computers for everyone. The journey wasn't always smooth, but Apple's iPod, iPhone and iPad have become tools for the masses. Today, Apple, with more than 1 billion of its devices actively used across the globe, is the biggest company in the world. Here's our look at Apple as the company turns 40.
Artwork from Starcraft II, one of the games that'll be part of Alibaba's newly announced e-sports tournament.
Alibaba, one of the world's largest e-commerce platforms, has jumped onto the e-sports bandwagon.
The company on Wednesday announced the World Electronic Sports Games (WESG) tourney, a worldwide tournament that will begin in April and finish off in December. In e-sports, fans watch skilled computer-gamers compete live or over the Web.
Featuring a variety of popular games, WESG will have a massive prize pool of well over $5.5 million (AU$7.15 million, £3.8 million).
Dota 2, Starcraft 2, Hearthstone and Counter-Strike: Global Offensive are among the games that will be part of the tournament. Conspicuous by its absence is the ultrapopular League of Legends, which may have been excluded because it's owned by Alibaba rival TenCent.
E-sports have exploded in recent years and in 2015 hit a viewer base of 134 million people, according to SuperData research. The same firm said the industry was worth nearly $750 million last year, a number that's expected to grow to $1.9 billion in 2018.
Alibaba, meanwhile, is one of China's largest Internet companies and last year made a record $1 billion revenue in 8 minutes. Its entry into the e-sports realm is the latest indicator of the industry's growing mainstream appeal.
Much more is expected to be added to the $5.5 million base prize pool through crowdsourcing. The prize money is already among the largest in e-sports, even when not taking into account the potential crowdsourced dollars.
Microsoft wants its Edge browser to be on the cutting edge.
Microsoft is making sure its new Web browser can be part of the war on Internet ads.
At its Build conference in San Francisco on Wednesday, Microsoft outlined improvements to the new Edge browser it introduced with the Windows 10 operating system last year. High on the list is technology that will let you customize the browser's behavior, for example, by installing ad-blocking extensions.
Microsoft's longtime browser, Internet Explorer, can be customized through a more cumbersome method that Microsoft didn't include in Edge. Instead, the company adopted a variation of the approach Google, Mozilla and Apple already use for their browsers. That paves the way for popular extension AdBlock Plus, which is working on Edge support.
Ad blocking used to be a niche activity, but it is moving rapidly into the mainstream. Some Web browsers, like Opera and Brave, which is a startup browser from former Mozilla CEO Brendan Eich, are even starting to build the feature directly into the software. Apple lets you download a third-party ad-blocker for its Safari mobile browser.
This isn't just about blocking annoying ads. Safety questions have come to the fore after the likes of The New York Times, BBC and AOL accidentally distributed ads infected with malware. Ads can also make websites slower to load and more taxing on phone batteries.
Microsoft once ruled the browser game with its Internet Explorer, but over the last decade it has seen a dramatic decline in usage as Google's Chrome and Mozilla's Firefox rose to prominence. The new extensions technology, combined with support for many Web technologies, shows that Microsoft is determined to be more forward-thinking as it moves on from its legacy product and presses ahead with the evolution of Windows 10 and Edge.
At Build, it initially appeared that Microsoft would be baking ad-blocking capabilities into its browser itself. The confusion stemmed from wording in a Microsoft presentation. In a chart laying out future features for Edge, spotted by CNET sister site ZDNet, one of the actions described for the summer 2016 update was listed as "build ad-blocking features into the browser."
"What people saw during a session at Build yesterday was in reference to the work we're already doing in bringing extensions to MS Edge," Microsoft said in a statement.
Correction, 3 a.m. PT April 1: Microsoft is creating extensions technology that will let other companies build ad blockers for Edge.
Microsoft kicked off its developer-centric conference with a typically long-winded keynote full of exciting stuff...for developers. Unless you're a coder, the big news probably won't affect you, however it might eventually, in 10 years when you're Skype-ing your grandparents via HoloLens. Here's a roundup of the most important news.
Microsoft is bringing the open source command line, Linux, to Windows 10. Basically Windows 10 will be easier for developers to use, making this a really big deal for coders.
At Build 2016, Microsoft demos new features of Windows 10, including signing into a website with your fingerprint, and new Windows Ink capabilities.
To celebrate the operating system's anniversary, Windows 10 users will receive a free update. It's expected to roll out this summer and include apps for Facebook and Instagram.
Microsoft's CEO admitted that Tay, the hot-mess-millennial bot that Twitter ruined, wasn't up to par. No word on when/if she'll be back.
Apparently a lot of us still use a pen and paper (present company included). Microsoft wants to wean us off our old habits by better integrating its stylus into Windows 10, making a PC easier (or better) to use than a notepad.
With Oculus Rift, ready for consumer consumption, Microsoft is steady on its heels by shipping out the HoloLens to developers. You can't just walk into a Target a buy one, but that's the goal.
At Build 2016, Microsoft says its augmented-reality headset is shipping today to developers around the world.
Cortana, Microsoft's personal digital assistant and aspiring bot, is a powerful tool that can order you a pizza, remind you about that toy store you visited two years ago, or even crack a joke -- but only if you ask.
Microsoft shows how its personal assistant, search engine and robots are working together to help users communicate in the next version of Skype.
Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella holds court at the company's Build conference. Like other techies, he's interested in the potential of artificial intelligence.
Microsoft has seen the future, and it's filled with bots.
No, not robots or flying drones, but rather these new apps that can perform simple tasks at your beck and call. Want to book a flight? Microsoft believes a bot can do that for you. Need to remember to send an email to your boss? A bot can remind you. Bots can even help translate conversations in different languages, tell you where to travel for a meeting or book you a hotel room.
Think Jarvis, the digital butler who helps out Tony Stark in his adventures as Iron Man.
Microsoft sees a tech world filled with different types of Jarvises (Jarvi?), and it wants to be the company that helps make them.
"We're really excited about the new opportunities and new frontiers," said Satya Nadella, Microsoft's CEO. Speaking at the company's Build developer conference in San Francisco, Nadella said he wants to encourage software makers to create these new types of apps. "We want all developers to infuse intelligence into their applications."
This new focus on bots and people's conversations with computers is part of Microsoft's quest to build an even deeper relationship with you, whether or not you use one of the company's devices anymore. That's different from Google and Apple, which mostly offer products and online services meant to pull you further into their respective worlds. Microsoft, by comparison, wants to offer programs that follow you wherever you go.
One way Microsoft will do this is by making its Cortana virtual assistant work on competitors' devices, like phones powered by Google's Android, where it can listen and watch what you do, automatically adding calendar appointments to your Office calendar or monitoring email receipts for an expense report.
Microsoft did its best to drum up excitement for these bots, entreating developers to build their own through its "Microsoft Bot Framework," which allows for the creation of these virtual assistants that can hook into services like Skype or Twitter. They'll also be able to work with existing services and businesses, like Domino's Pizza, where a bot can send an order and pay by credit card without having to surf to the company's website.
To some people, Microsoft is helping software makers finally deliver on the promise of a digital assistant that can do pretty much anything. "It's starting to do what we thought those voice assistants would do in the first place," said Bob O'Donnell, president of Technalysis Research. We'll still use websites and apps of course, but these bots will offer another way to help us get things done.
Doug Benson, a product manager at file-sharing service Syncplicity, said Microsoft's emphasis on making its technology available for both Windows and competing devices made it more appealing.
But there are still some details other developers need to figure out. Chris Bohling, a lead developer at the medical laboratory company Quest Diagnostics, said he's concerned about whether a bot could handle the vast amounts of data his company manages. There are privacy concerns as well. Security "is always at the forefront of what we do," he said.
Microsoft shows how its personal assistant, search engine and robots are working together to help users communicate in the next version of Skype.
The emphasis on bots marks the latest attempt by a tech company to introduce artificial intelligence into its products. Microsoft joins Facebook, Google, Apple and IBM, who are also trying to create software that can learn from what we do and, by extension, help us in our daily lives.
Facebook, for example, is teaching its AI how to recognize shapes in a photo so it can tell blind users what's on the screen. And Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's CEO, said he's trying to build his own Jarvis.
Early efforts, however, have yielded mixed results. Last week, Microsoft introduced Tay, a "teenage" AI chatbot designed to learn from our tweets. It took less than a day for Internet users to turn Tay into a Trump-loving, horny racist. Microsoft took Tay offline within a day of its release and said it's working out the kinks.
Nadella didn't shy away from the incident, saying that Microsoft wants to build technology that "gets the best of humanity, not the worst," a comment that elicited chuckles from the crowd.
"That's how we're going to make progress," Nadella said.
CNET's Roger Cheng contributed to this story.
Tay ran amok again.
We should fear artificial intelligence, though perhaps not for reasons we'd expect. After Microsoft accidentally turned back on its teenage AI chatbot Tay on Twitter, it became clear that AI robots may not be coming to rule us but merely annoy us.
CNET also dives into Google's new landline service, which lets customers use their phone number on a smartphone or tablet, and Snapchat's latest updates, including the addition of stickers.
The 3:59 gives you bite-size news and analysis about the top stories of the day, brought to you by CNET Executive Editor Roger Cheng and Senior Writer Ben Fox Rubin.
USB-C cables, like this one from Griffin, are making life a little easier for all tech users.
Amazon apparently doesn't want to stand in the way of a major improvement coming to computer cables.
USB cables for charging your phone and connecting your printer to your PC are getting easier to use and more powerful with the new USB Type-C variety. But defective cables that can damage your computer's USB ports are ten-a-penny, and Amazon is cracking down on businesses selling them on its site.
The online retailing giant on Wednesday tightened regulations for selling USB Type-C cables. It added faulty USB-C cables to a list of banned items that also includes pirated DVDs and portable lasers. Those selling them risk Amazon shutting down their account and destroying any of their products stocked in Amazon fulfillment centers.
It's vindication for Google engineer Benson Leung, a Type-C fan who's painstakingly tested dozens of Type-C cables bought through Amazon and posted the results to try to help buyers steer clear of faulty models. During that testing, a shoddy USB-C cable zapped his own Pixel laptop.
USB-C connections have begun replacing today's array of USB cables as the way to provide data and power connections. They're reversible, so you don't need to figure out which end is which, and they can carry a lot more power, meaning that they'll be useful charging not just phones and tablets but also laptops, external hard drives, monitors and just about any other gadget. But the promise of USB-C will never be achieved if everyone has to fret that some noncompliant cable could fry or shut down their computer.
Reacting to the news on Google+, Leung said: "Really great news, but we all have to continue to be vigilant and call out any bad products we find on Amazon and other stores (both online and brick and mortar) as we find them."
The legal battle between Apple and the FBI may be over for now, but we're left with many questions unanswered.
Now that the FBI says it was able to hack into an iPhone without Apple's help, CNET Update breaks down the concerns being raised over how it cracked Apple's encryption. But that's not the only tech drama: Instagram users are raising a stink about changes to the network, but not everything being said is accurate. Maybe we'll all be a little more chill on Thursday when our Miitomo personalities do the social networking for us.
The US Department of Justice says it was able to break into an iPhone without Apple's help, but it won't answer queries about the data it accessed. Meanwhile, some celebrities are spreading inaccurate information on Instagram's feed change, and Nintendo gets set to launch its first mobile app.
CNET Update delivers the tech news you need in under 3 minutes. Watch Bridget Carey every afternoon for a breakdown of the big stories, hot devices, new apps and what's ahead. Subscribe to the podcast via the links below.
Microsoft's Surface Book showed the company can make sleek products, but it's still no Apple.
With Microsoft's Build developer conference kicking off this week, expect the tech giant to keep pushing its new Windows 10 software and HoloLens, its augmented reality headset. We debate whether Microsoft has done enough to make itself a flashier brand, which could help it compete against Apple.
Also on today's podcast, we discuss the latest wireless spectrum auction and how it could affect customers, as well as Yahoo's seemingly unending plans to sell all or part of itself.
The 3:59 gives you bite-size news and analysis about the top stories of the day, brought to you by CNET Executive Editor Roger Cheng and Senior Writer Ben Fox Rubin.
.
The iPhone SE is Apple's cheapest smartphone ever, making it ostensibly the best way for the company to win over new customers in emerging markets.
In China, the world's largest smartphone market, the strategy is paying off -- but not tremendously well. The device has racked up 3.4 million preorders since it was announced last week, CNBC reports. Not a bad number, but not groundbreaking either.
The figure, based on data from major online retailers in the company, doesn't necessarily mean Apple will sell 3.4 million iPhone SEs when the phone goes on sale March 31. Retailers in China rarely allow citizens to put money down on a product ahead of its release, so "preorders" are actually more like reservations and don't require any financial commitment.
Still, it's an early measure of the interest a product has garnered in the country. For a point of reference, Xiaomi said preorders for its Mi 5, which launched earlier this month, exceeded 16 million. Apple's iPhone 6S and 6S Plus models sold around 7.2 million units in just over two weeks, according to TalkingData research.
"Initial interest for the iPhone SE is lukewarm," says Neil Shah, research director at Counterpoint Research. He expects that the phone will make up "less than 10 percent of the total iPhone sales in China this year."
The iPhone SE is essentially a 4-inch version of the 6S phone that the Cupertino, California-based company released last September -- though it lacks the latter's 3D Touch feature. The SE is also cheaper, starting at $399, £359 and AU$679.
Shah says that though the phone is cheap compared to Apple's other phones, it may not be cheap enough. "The smaller screen size [is a] deal-breaker for many, especially at a relatively premium price point," he explains. Meanwhile, Xiaomi's Mi 5, which has a 5.15-inch display and power comparable to Samsung's Galaxy S7, retails for 1,999 yuan ($305, £220 or AU$425) in China.
The SE comes as iPhone sales have hit a wall, and is likely an attempt by Apple to gain new customers in China and India, the world's two biggest smartphone markets. Budget and midrange phones, made by the likes of the aforementioned Xiaomi -- who often trades sales victories with Apple -- are extremely popular in these regions, with premium phones being too expensive for a large section of the population.
Apple did not immediately respond to request for comment.
Forget that galaxy far, far away. Microsoft's Holoportation looks better than anything a droid could project. (If you don't mind the headgear.)
Watch Update below for a look at what it takes to transport yourself to another room as a hologram. Microsoft may show more of this technology at its Build developer's conference on Wednesday. Meanwhile, we explore the new frontiers of virtual reality with the Oculus Rift review, and ponder the report of a new PlayStation console designed for VR:
The next evolution of Skype may be hologram meetings. Microsoft shows us what's possible with Hololens before its annual Build developers event. Also, Sony may be planning to release a more powerful PlayStation console for virtual reality.
CNET Update delivers the tech news you need in under 3 minutes. Watch Bridget Carey every afternoon for a breakdown of the big stories, hot devices, new apps and what's ahead. Subscribe to the podcast via the links below.
The future of tech is here, and it may not be as much fun as you think.
To join in, you'll need to strap a black, 1.5-pound mask to your face so you can have an out-of-body-like experience that might make you vomit. There's also the chance you'll trip on the 13-foot-long cord that connects the device to a PC.
Once you put the headset on, it really can make you feel like you're in a different place. You may be sitting in a chair at home, but through the headset -- which is basically holding a computer screen inches from your eyes -- you'll think you're standing beneath a Tyrannosaurus rex, climbing Mt. Everest or exploring the ruins of the nuclear disaster zone in Chernobyl.
That's the virtual-reality vision that Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg will be delivering Monday, when the Oculus Rift headset officially launches. It's also Zuckerberg's big bet. He spent $2 billion in 2014 just to buy Oculus while its VR tech was still a prototype.
When the Rift goes on sale for $599 US (£499 or AU$649), most experiences will be video games, like the space shooter Eve: Valkyrie, the card game Dragon Front, and Job Simulator: The 2050 Archives, where robots have replaced all human workers.
But Zuckerberg, 31, has much grander visions. He sees a future where education, communication and entertainment take place inside virtual worlds that we all see through these headsets.
In that future, we won't just take a video or photo. We'll capture a moment using 360-degree cameras that record the people, things and action around us. Zuckerberg believes VR will allow us to relive precious moments -- like, in his case, the first steps taken by his 4-month old daughter, Max -- in a way we never could before.
"We'd be able to share that with our family and other close friends, and actually have them be there and feel it and see what it's like," Zuckerberg said  	at a conference last year.
Sam Dolnick got his first taste of VR about a year ago when he downloaded Vrse, an app that plays 360-degree videos on an iPhone. You can also explore those videos by opening the app, plopping the phone into a headset and then peering through the eye holes. Turn your head, and the video pans around.
"It blew me away," Dolnick said. "There's something powerful about this place where you just look around."
He showed his phone and Google Cardboard VR viewer to his colleagues in the newsroom at The New York Times, where he's an associate editor.
By spring 2015, the paper was working on what would become a specialized VR app and NYT-branded version of Cardboard, which it sent out free to a million subscribers in November. That first weekend,
including its flagship reader for viewing content on phones and tablets.
"There were many people in the building who thought it was a stunt, a neat trick to do and then move on with our lives," Dolnick said.
Now they think differently.
The NYT says its VR app has been downloaded more than half a million times so far. And while you can watch the videos without goggles, 75 percent of people have looked at them in Cardboard mode.
(Click and drag in the video below to look around and simulate a VR experience.)
The Wall Street Journal added 360-degree videos to its flagship app in November. All told, the WSJ has produced eight videos and a VR-graphic presentation, including a front-row view of New York Fashion Week, a peep inside an Ikea carpet-making factory and a look at the business of raising chickens. The paper didn't want to share usage stats but says it's happy with reader response so far.
"It's the most unique thing we have done," said Jessica Yu, the WSJ's global head of visuals. "There's tons of potential."
Other big companies are playing around with VR. In 14 of its Swedish outlets, McDonald's offered 3,000 Happy Meal boxes kids could fold into a Cardboard-like viewer. Lucasfilm's ILMxLAB research center is publishing some of its experiments, including  	a 360-degree video on Facebook that puts viewers inside a vehicle speeding across Star Wars' fictional desert planet of Jakku. That was watched more than 7 million times in the first few days after it was posted in September.
McDonald's created 3,000 Happy Meal boxes that could be refolded into VR headsets.
Lucasfilm also teamed up with Verizon and handed out Star Wars-themed Cardboard viewers last December ahead of the premiere of "Star Wars VII: The Force Awakens." And for content, the filmmaker also released a series of minute-long videos called "Jakku Spy" that set the stage before the movie.
"It was clear folks were willing to try something they never had before," said John Gaeta, executive creative director of ILMxLAB.
Lucasfilm is now creating videos for high-end headsets like the Oculus Rift and is developing a game that may even let you wield Star Wars' iconic lightsaber against your enemies.
"With each of these successive projects we get better," said Vicki Beck, executive in charge of strategic planning at ILMxLAB.
For all the questions about VR and its future, it's worth remembering it's taken decades just to get to this point. This technology's long and winding road to store shelves has left behind companies like Jaron Lanier's VPL Research, horror films like "The Lawnmower Man" and many disappointed enthusiasts.
But the tech industry, academics and entrepreneurs like Oculus inventor Palmer Luckey helped hold onto the dream that computers can be more than just a screen and a keyboard.

said Paul Silverman, an analyst at market researcher and consultancy Frank N. Magid Associates. "When it hits them that it's here and the real deal, there's real potential."
Monday's Oculus release is the virtual equivalent of the starting gun. Beside the Rift, HTC has promised to deliver its Vive headset next month for $799, and Sony's $399 PlayStation VR is set to debut in October. Like Oculus, these headsets will need a computer or video game console to power them.
The big question:
"There's so much hype and money being thrown into this thing," said Yoshio Osaki, president at market researcher IDG. He believes VR will take two to four years to develop, but warned there's 30 percent chance it will fail.
Zuckerberg knows that and has signaled he's willing to wait it out. "This is going to grow slowly,"  	he warned in September. "If you think about the arrival of computers or smartphones, the first units shipped did not ship tens of millions in their first year. But they proved an idea and made it real."
However this plays out, many people making games and movies are convinced there's real value in creating worlds we can immerse ourselves in. Reality 51, for example, brought laser scanners and high-end cameras to Chernobyl to put viewers in the middle of the city's radioactive  devastation.
"When I came to Chernobyl for the first time, I thought it was great, it was like the game 'Fallout,'"  said creative director Wojciech Pazdur. "Then I started to understand this is serious."
Now Reality 51 is working with schools to use its upcoming Chernobyl VR project as an educational tool.
"Being there, visiting there, hearing the story, feeling like it's something that matters -- that's what we want to show."
We go deep with our reactions to Apple's keynote. Is 3D Touch in trouble? And, the FBI is now trying to hack into the iPhone.
Subscribe to the Apple Byte Podcast
Follow Extra Crunchy on SoundCloud
Follow Extra Crunchy on TuneIn
Extra Crunchy Show Notes:
iPad Pro - 9.7 inch news:
The new iPad Pro
9.7 inch iPad Pro includes 2 GB RAM, slightly slower CPU than 12.9 inch iPad Pro
Dear Apple, there's nothing 'really sad' about using a 5-year-old PC
iPhone SE news:

Introducing iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus with 3D Touch
Apple Pay Coming to Mobile Websites Before Holiday Shopping Season
iPhone SE and 9.7-inch iPad Pro now available for pre-order
iOS 9.3 news:

f.lux fixes this: it makes the color of your computer's display adapt to the time of day, warm at night and like sunlight during the day.
Apple Temporarily Pulls iOS 9.3 Update for Older iOS Devices
Apple releases new build of iOS 9.3 for users of iPad 2 affected by bricking bug
Liam robot video with REAR FLUSH CAMERA
Apple vs. FBI update:
How the hell could the FBI hack into that iPhone?




Social Networking:
Tweet at Brian Tong on Twitter
Tweet to Stephen Beacham on Twitter
With contribution from Stephen Beacham.

Download today's podcast
Subscribe to our wonderful program:
Russ's new podcast: The West Wing History Class
Follow everyone on Twitter!

Shout out to our sponsor this week: Acronis!Use code "CNET" at checkout at Harry's!
File any hateful or insightful comments at our show thread over at our subreddit:  	 	reddit.com/r/the404.

Starboard has called for the replacement of Yahoo's entire board, including CEO Marissa Mayer.
When Marissa Mayer took over  Yahoo in July 2012, she was the fifth CEO in five years to try her hand at resuscitating the once mighty Internet media and search site.
But after less than four years in, as she's been fighting against employee and user ennui, Mayer is now facing an energetic foe  that wants the company to fire its entire board of directors and possibly part ways with the CEO.
If they're successful, that would give Yahoo six CEOs in less than 10 years, which may be a corporate record of sorts -- but probably not the one the company is going for.
An activist investor group called Starboard Value said in a letter to other Yahoo shareholders Thursday that it wants a new group of people to oversee a "turnaround plan, separation, or sale of assets" (PDF). Yahoo's current board includes Mayer and company co-founder David Filo.
"We believe that Yahoo is deeply undervalued and opportunities exist within the control of management and the Board of Directors  to unlock significant value for the benefit of all shareholders," Starboard wrote in its letter. Though it didn't exactly say that it wants Mayer ousted as CEO, the group added that "we have been extremely disappointed with Yahoo's dismal financial performance, poor management execution, egregious compensation and hiring practices, and general lack of accountability and oversight by the Board."
A former Google executive, Mayer's been criticized for some of the efforts she's made to bring Yahoo back to  relevance and keep it competitive with rivals including Facebook, Google and Snapchat. So Starboard has plenty of ammunition.
Mayer's missteps include Yahoo Screen, the company's premium video service, which was shut down in January. Yahoo admitted it couldn't  find a way for the service to make money, even with the help of newly produced programming including a revival of the NBC cult comedy "Community." Yahoo admitted the slate of shows sucked up $42 million from its coffers.
Its messaging service Livetext, a video chat app (but with no sound) was shut down eight months after it launched. And eight of the top 10 smartphone apps in the United States in January are made by rivals Facebook and Google, according to Comscore. Yahoo's only spot on the top 15 is Apple's Stocks app for iPhones, powered by Yahoo's financial data.
Yahoo still has a large audience -- it claims 1 billion people visit all its sites combined each month. But it hasn't found ways to make that pay, and it hasn't been able to find sure footing with its products.
The misses have sunk employee morale, with key executives leaving and Mayer apparently asking the remaining leadership to make multiyear commitments to Yahoo. In February, Mayer unveiled her make or break plan for the company, including cutting 1,700 jobs. She also put out a call to would-be buyers, saying she and Yahoo's board are ready to "engage on qualified strategic proposals."
That "bold" plan, as Yahoo described it, isn't bold enough for Starboard.
"We believe the board clearly lacks the leadership, objectivity and perspective needed to make decisions that are in the best interests of shareholders," the group said in its letter.  "The management team and Board of Yahoo have repeatedly failed shareholders."
Yahoo said its Nominating and Governance Committee will review the proposal and "respond in due course." Starboard didn't respond to a request for comment beyond its letter.
This isn't the first time Starboard has tried to force a company to clean house. In 2014, Darden Restaurants, the owner of Olive Garden and other chains, replaced its entire 12-person board after pressure from Starboard. As part of its campaign, Starboard published a presentation filled with embarrassing critiques of Olive Garden. A few of the jabs: "How does the largest Italian dining concept in the world not salt the water for pasta?" And, the fried lasagna bites were "barely edible."
Now Starboard is swapping unlimited salad and breadsticks for, well, whatever Yahoo is focusing on now.
Mayer has dealt with activist investors before. Daniel Loeb, of the hedge fund Third Point, was key to Mayer's hiring at Yahoo in the first place. But Mayer eventually forced him out because she wanted to ensure her control of the company. "She got him out," an industry executive told Vanity Fair in 2014. "Dan had a gun to her head whether she knew it or not, and she orchestrated his departure."
Starboard, which said it owns 1.7 percent of Yahoo, wants to nominate its nine board replacement candidates at Yahoo's annual shareholder meeting later this year. Those candidates include Jeffrey Smith, Starboard's CEO, and Eddy Hartenstein, chairman of Tribune publishing, which owns the Chicago Tribune, the Los Angeles Times and The Baltimore Sun.
"We cannot envision a scenario where the shareholders of Yahoo would entrust the current management team and Board with executing a standalone turnaround plan given the years of failed attempts under the current leadership," Starboard wrote.
Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
Does he speak with forked tongue? Or does he just take the money?
What's the matter with us now? Residents of Kansas have surely been asking themselves that question for the last couple of days.
Ever since Verizon released a couple of ads poking amusement at Sprint and its hometown of Kansas City, there's been a veritable Missouri of consternation.
The local media has wondered why, oh, why new Verizon spokesman Ricky Gervais is, as they say in England, taking the piss out of such an innocent place and company.
So Sprint CEO Marcelo Claure stood up for his company's hometown and threatened to punch the Englishman on the nose.
Well, not quite. Claure took to Twitter to thank Gervais and Verizon.
"Thanks @Verizon and @rickygervais for advertising that @sprint is faster and more reliable. We agree with you," he said.
Bragging rights, you see, are serious business -- even when there's a laugh track --  for the companies that provide you with your mobile phone's wireless coverage, or lack thereof. Or else why would people at places like RootMetrics and OpenSignal bother measuring that sort of thing?
Claure helpfully added an image from one of the ads with Sprint's own interpretations. Verizon had featured a big yellow map of the US with the headline: "Faster, more reliable and better coverage than ever."
Claure explained how stunningly accurate this was, in his view.
And then there was the little joke that Gervais had offered about the small print beneath the map, the small print that explains the map doesn't accurately depict the coverage. Claure's annotation: "Verizon does it too, Ricky. Just obeying the law."
Yes, the law does say you shouldn't put a completely yellow map on the screen that suggests Sprint has 100 percent coverage.
You might wonder that Gervais would rise above Claure's tweet. But no. He zipped right back on Twitter with: "Don't shoot the messenger:)."
Some might interpret this as: "They're paying me bucketloads for this. Can you hear me now?"
Still on Twitter, Sprint's retail director Bobbi Lee replied to Gervais by challenging him to a speed test in LA.
This was immediately replied to by someone called Ryan A who said: "Maybe in LA. I have sprint and its trash if not in a big city (sucked in Vegas too)." Ah.
Phone companies do adore tossing barbs at each other. The only question is whether claims that seems so similar from all of them actually move anyone.
Perhaps it's a matter better left to cartographers.
"Even though  Verizon is spending millions on its new campaign," a Sprint spokeswoman told me, "they are not  disputing our claim that we are better, faster and more reliable than  ever. They just don't like our map. "
Still, I can't wait to see Claure challenge Verizon CEO Lowell McAdam to see who has the bigger hands. That's when you know things have become really serious.
Updated 1.22pm: Adds comment from Sprint.
Thanks @Verizon and @rickygervais for advertising that @sprint is faster and more reliable. We agree with you pic.twitter.com/3XgdMYwiV3
Looks like delaying Apple court sessions is becoming a trend.
U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh late Tuesday granted Samsung's motion to put a damages retrial on hold until the Supreme Court can review the case. The trial was scheduled to start Monday in San Jose, California, and would have taken about a week.
The delay comes only a couple days after a court showdown between Apple and the FBI, slated for Tuesday, was called off. And the pause clears the path for the Supreme Court to make the ultimate decision in this long-running patent dispute.
Samsung filed a motion with the Supreme Court in December asking it to re-examine the patent infringement case after losing in court to Apple. As a result of the trial, Samsung has to pay Apple $548 million in damages. The Supreme Court granted that motion Monday, the first time it has considered a design patent case since the 1800s. It likely will consider the case later this year.
Samsung requested that next week's damages retrial be put on hold to avoid a possible fourth trial and "avoid potentially duplicative and wasteful proceedings."
The company on Wednesday said "we believed it was important to stay the retrial until the Supreme Court issues its ruling, and the district court agreed."
Apple declined to comment Wednesday. Apple's attorneys had opposed the motion to stay the trial, saying "moving forward with proceedings in this case would promote the orderly course of justice." Apple also sought to argue how much time and work it has put into preparing for the trial.
A decision by the Supreme Court could have a ripple effect  across the technology industry and ultimately impact the gadgets you buy  because it could finally define the value of design work. For that  reason, the case has drawn the attention of a wide number of legal  experts, nonprofit groups and technology companies. Together, they filed  six amicus, or "friend of the court," briefs in support of Samsung, urging the Supreme Court to consider the case.
Some of Silicon Valley's biggest players, including Google and  Facebook, argued in the amicus briefs that the lower-court ruling as it  stands could have a "devastating impact" on the introduction of new  products due to a heightened fear of legal challenges. Apple has said  all along that it was doing what was necessary to defend its  intellectual property and the value of its blockbuster iPhone franchise.
Samsung wants the Supreme Court to give guidance on what is covered  by design patents, which protect the way an item is used and how it  works and also include what damages can be collected.
The original Apple vs. Samsung trial in 2012 pitted a pair of the world's largest tech companies against each other. The case captivated Silicon Valley and the tech industry because it exposed the inner workings of two notoriously secretive companies. It was just one of many such trials around the world as the rivals sparred both in the marketplace and in the courtroom. At issue were design patents for a black, rectangular, round-cornered front face; a similar rectangular round-cornered front face plus the surrounding rim, known as the bezel; and a colorful grid of 16 icons.
The electronics titans square off in a tangled tale of mobile technology, centered on Apple's iPhone
Women in tech jobs face an unpleasant fact: male programmers, developers and engineers make more, even when they work at the same company, have the same education and share identical levels of experience.
Life is sweet for computer programmers. Companies crave their coding skills and will do anything to attract and keep them -- from $100,000 signing bonuses, salaries in the $100,000 to $200,000 range and even company-funded ski trips to Tahoe.
But being a computer programmer is even sweeter if you're a guy.
That's the obvious verdict from a report released Wednesday by job recruiting site Glassdoor, which examined the salaries of 500,000 full-time employees across 157 different occupations.
Glassdoor's "Demystifying the Gender Pay Gap" report concludes that, when it comes to women's pay, computer programming is the most unfair occupation in America.  On average, a woman makes 28 percent less than a man with the same job -- and the same education, years of experience and age, among other factors.
Put another way, that means women earn about 72 cents for every dollar men earn.
And yeah, it's pretty extreme. That pay imbalance is about five times larger than the average pay gap across all professions in the US, per Glassdoor.
It gets slightly better for women in other technical roles like game artists, security specialists, data scientists and software architects -- but not by much.
"I don't think there are any examples of technical jobs where there is a pay advantage for women," says Andrew Chamberlain, Glassdoor's chief economist.
The latest analysis just reinforces a common story line about Silicon Valley: It's a bro-dominated industry where women have a tough shot getting a fair shake.
That may or may not be.
Even so, the report also finds that tech is on par with the national average once you look at other industries. After taking into account differences in education and experience, men working at tech companies overall make 5.9 percent more than women do, compared with a 5.4 percent difference across the US.
Actually, health care and insurance have the worst records when it comes to equal pay. In both cases, men earn 7.2 percent more than women with the same qualifications. (In contrast, bragging rights go to aerospace and defense and agriculture and forestry, which have the smallest pay gap: 2.5 percent.)
It's important to note that Glassdoor's survey has some limitations. The company's data come from online job postings, so its study might not include many lower-paying jobs at tech companies, like assembly line work, gardening or kitchen help.
Differences in education, age and years of experience "explain little" of tech's gender pay gap, says the report.
One problem, of course, is that tech companies have few women in their most important roles.
Evidence from tech giants themselves confirms that. In Microsoft's latest diversity report, the company reported that women comprise 26.8 percent of its workforce, but only 17 percent work in tech positions or hold leadership roles. Twitter said women filled 13 percent of its technical jobs in 2015, and women at Google account for 18 percent of the search giant's technical jobs.
To shrink the gap, Glassdoor suggests policies lightening the burden of child and elderly care as well as those ensuring that women have greater access to science and technical training.
Of course, if history repeats itself, attracting more women to technical roles might not have the desired effect. A study by two Stanford University sociologists finds that when women enter predominantly male jobs, the pay drops.
Correction 8:51 A.M.: An earlier version of this story incorrectly attributed a one-off cash bonus as a signing bonus.
Well, that was anticlimactic.
After weeks of buildup, the Federal Bureau of Investigation's effort to get Apple to break its own encryption code de-escalated just before a court hearing scheduled for Tuesday. The FBI suddenly revealed Monday that it may no longer need Apple to help it crack into an iPhone that was used by San Bernardino shooter Syed Farook.
We also pay respects to Andy Grove, Intel's former CEO who helped make Silicon Valley what it is today. He died Monday at the age of 79.
The 3:59 gives you bite-size news and analysis about the top stories of the day, brought to you by CNET Executive Editor Roger Cheng and CNET Senior Writer Ben Fox Rubin.
The Apple Watch has new bands and a new price tag, but otherwise it's the same as ever.
If you were expecting Apple to unveil a new smartwatch at Monday's event, you may be feeling a little disappointed today.
What we got instead was a price cut and some new bands for the existing Apple Watch. But Apple isn't the only smartwatch maker that has skipped out on introducing a new timepiece so far in 2016.
Two of the year's biggest tech events, CES in Las Vegas and the Mobile World Congress show in Barcelona, Spain, have come and gone with barely a smartwatch to be seen among the slew of new TVs, phones and home appliances. Fitbit was the rare higher-profile company to show off a new watch at CES, and for its troubles saw its shares fall to their lowest level. At Mobile World Congress, the biggest smartwatch came from Haier, a company better known for making washing machines.
Compare that with 2015, when smartwatches were all the rage. Companies including Samsung, Huawei and LG jumped in with their wearables, and, of course, there was the launch of the Apple Watch.
So what happened? The lack of new smartwatches this year suggests a drought in a business that was just getting off the ground. As evidenced by Apple's announcement of new bands, 2016 may be more about refinement of what we've already got rather than a new generation of wearables. Maybe that could finally help make these products ready for mainstream consumers.
Scott Stein looks at the new nylon bands for the Apple Watch that come in four new colors.
"While it's true that that there haven't been many new smartwatch announcements this year from major manufacturers, there were plenty of significant updates to their existing lineup of devices," said CCS Insight analyst George Jijiashvili.
Smartwatches had a good year in 2015, with the 22 million units shipped exceeding the number of of Swiss watch deliveries for the first time ever. Still, it's unclear whether average consumers want them, or if wearables are still just toys for gadget enthusiasts.
Analysts are bullish. The wearables market is expected to grow by nearly a third to $6.3 billion in 2016, according to Jijiashvili.
So far, smartwatch manufacturers such as Huawei, Samsung and Apple have focused their efforts on making cosmetic changes to materials, colors and finishes. "This is in line with our view that 2016 is the year when wearables start to become items that mainstream consumers might actually want to wear," said Jijiashvili.
Will accessories turn the tide? It's a little something, at least.
"People ... love changing the bands and how it gives the watch an entirely new look," Apple CEO Tim Cook said at Monday's event. "About a third of our Apple Watch wearers regularly change their bands."
The relative success of the Apple Watch, which in August became the world's biggest wearables company after Fitbit, so far means that everyone is still looking to it to define the market. At the Wearable Technology Show in London last week, barely a panel went by without someone -- rival smartwatch makers included -- alluding to Apple in an almost exclusively positive light.
Apple's success is "a sign" of things to come, said Joe Santana, chief executive of smartwatch company Vector and former CEO of Timex, at the show. Adoption has been slow, he acknowledged, but that doesn't mean it will continue to be. "You have a lot of big players making significant investments so they're not going to give up," he said.
As for old-school watchmakers, some like Tag Heuer, Fossil and Guess have caught on to the trend, but the majority are taking a "head-in-the-sand approach to connected devices," said Jijiashvili. "Established watchmakers increasingly need to defend against the threat posed by products from smartwatch makers, which have started to dent sales of traditional watches," he added.
Santana believes that this will change over time. "All the high-end watches will be connected watches,"  he said. "Everyone is getting involved."
The key will be figuring out what people can do with these smartwatches that will really resonate with them, according to Sam Massih, senior wearables director at sensor company InvenSense, who also spoke at the Wearable Tech Show last week. Manufacturers will have to realize that there is no one-size-fits-all product.
Some watches will be screen-dominated notifications machines, others will be more attractive but capable fitness trackers. "I see the entire product line from the Swiss watch adding a step counter all the way to Apple and Samsung," he said. "There's going to be a product for everybody."
The other trick manufacturers still haven't pulled off is providing applications that give smartwatch wearers feedback on their patterns and allow them to take direct action, Massih said. "Let's actually deliver the services to the user to make them part of their life."
Join CNET for full coverage from Apple's latest event.
Traffic in the Indonesian city of Jakarta was brought to a halt Tuesday due to violent protests against ride-sharing apps.
The protests came from Jakarta's taxi drivers, who caused traffic jams by blocking off several main roads. Some were also witnessed on social media damaging vehicles and confronting bystanders.
Their actions came in response to the Indonesian government's apparent refusal to regulate or outright ban ride-sharing services Uber, Grab (formerly known as GrabTaxi) and GoJek, according to local media reports. Uber and Grab focus mainly on transportation by car, while GoJek drivers use motorcycles to ease passengers through Jakarta's infamous traffic jams.
Another cause of tension for cabbies is the loss of income due to ride-sharing services, a recurring complaint from taxi drivers around the world.
This is the second demonstration in Indonesia in just over a week about this issue, with peaceful protests taking place last Monday.
It's far from the first time that ride-sharing services such as Uber have led to unrest among taxi drivers, with similar protests in London, Paris and the United States over the past year. The controversies don't appear to have significantly hurt Uber's financially. The San Francisco-based company was worth about $60 billion in December, according to Bloomberg.
Grab and GoJek kept their businesses going for the day, despite the protests. Uber responded by turning off surge pricing for the day to encourage riders.
Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
"Take out a loan to buy these, you sad PC users."
Mac users used to look down on PC users.
Surely you remember Apple's  Mac vs PC ads that made PC users look like whirling twerps who were the Mr. (Has) Beans of technology.
Has the denigration ceased?
Not if you managed to listen to  the whole of Monday's Apple event. For there was Apple veteran Phil Schiller trying to insert some witty breeze into his presentation of the new, truncated iPad Pro

.
Apple's senior vice president of worldwide marketing mused that most of the people who use the iPad Pro

 come from Windows PCs. After all, the iPad Pro

 is so pleasingly, well, different for them.
Then Schiller offered: "Windows PCs were originally conceived  of before there was an Internet, before there was social media, before  there was app stores, and this is an amazing statistic: There are over  600 million PCs in use today that are over five years old."
This, you might imagine, is a glorious marketing opportunity for Apple.
Instead, Schiller said of the PC-ridden 600 million: "This is really sad. It really is."
He clearly feels their pain -- the laughter in his audience attested to that -- but let's examine the roots of Schiller's sadness.
Apple's products have always been more expensive. Not everyone can afford them. Not everyone can afford to switch to the latest gadget once a year, as they're encouraged to do by Apple and others.
In 2006, the average age of a personal computer was 4.5 years. This  steadily rose to 5.8 years by 2010. It dipped back down to 5 years in 2012. In 2015, it went back up to 5.6 years.
In some parts of the world, however, PCs (have to) last even longer. In Latin America, for example, the average age of a personal computer in 2015 was 9.8 years. In Eastern Europe, it was 7.5 years.
When you consider these numbers, Schiller's comment begins to look less like a Mac vs PC joke and more of a sad, elitist poke.
For some people, a $149 Chromebook is all they can afford. The iPad Pro

 starts at $599. And then there's the pencil and keyboard as extras. And a MacBook

? Have you got $1,299?
The occasionally guilt-ridden mantra of many on high these days concerns the need to fight against inequality.
It's clearly been exacerbated as those at the top have made disproportionately more money -- and presumably bought a lot of fine rose-gold gadgets with some of it.
It's odd then for Schiller to chuckle at those who are, as Mitt Romney might put it, in the 47 percent.
Not everyone holds on to older gadgets for economic reasons. Some might do it to help the environment. And some, perish the concept, might feel the old box works just fine for them.
But would Cupertino's new spaceship sink if Apple introduced a starter Mac for, say, $300?
No. But its profits might.
Intel's Andy Grove was named Time's Man of the Year in 1997 as "the person most responsible for the amazing growth in the power and innovative potential of microchips."
Andy Grove, the Hungarian emigre who -- along with Robert Noyce and Gordon Moore -- founded Intel and created the microprocessor industry, died Monday at 79. The cause of death was not released.
Grove's name was practically synonymous with Silicon Valley of the 1980s and '90s. In 1997, he was named Time magazine's Man of the Year for his role in driving the "Digital Revolution."
Last year, venture capitalist Ben Horowitz called Grove "the man who built Silicon Valley" and described Grove as "the greatest CEO who ever lived."
Outside the Valley, people knew Grove for his sayings, including "Success breeds complacency. Complacency breeds failure." The title of his 1996 bestseller, "Only the Paranoid Survive," became a mantra in the business community.
Grove also wrote about his childhood under both Nazi and Communist regimes. Famed VC Michael Moritz, of Sequoia Capital, describes it as a "masterpiece."
"From a life of breathtaking accomplishments there is one that will last as long as words are read," Moritz said in his tribute to Grove. "It is Andy's literary masterpiece, 'Swimming Across,' his wrenching account of growing up in mid-century Europe."
Grove's death was announced Monday by Intel.
"Andy made the impossible happen, time and again, and inspired generations of technologists, entrepreneurs, and business leaders," Intel CEO Brian Krzanich said in a statement.
Many of industry's heaviest hitters, including Apple CEO Tim Cook and venture capitalists Marc Andreessen and John Doerr immediately tweeted their tributes.
"Nothing I could say could capture what he meant to all of us. You just   wanted to live up to his expectations -- and I didn't work at Intel!,"  said  Carol Bartz, former CEO of Yahoo and Autodesk. "Thank you Andy for   keeping it real and honest!"
"Andy Grove was not just a visionary in the technology industry, he was a legendary inventor," said John Chambers, executive chairman of Cisco Systems. "He also taught that great companies and great leaders understand the importance in dealing with challenges as equally as they do the opportunities."
Born in Budapest, Grove fled communist Hungary in 1956. He later studied chemical engineering at City College of New York and received his Ph.D. in 1963 from the University of California at Berkeley. He went to work at Fairchild Semiconductor, where he was teamed with Moore and Noyce.
Noyce and Moore left Fairchild to found Intel in 1968. Grove was their first hire. He became Intel's president in 1979 and its CEO in 1987.
Diagnosed with Parkinson's disease in 2000, Grove subsequently contributed at least $26 million toward research into the disease, according to Inside Philanthropy.
Grove, Intel said in its statement announcing his death, "played a critical role in the decision to move Intel's focus from memory chips to microprocessors and led the firm's transformation into a widely recognized consumer brand."
CNET's Connie Guglielmo contributed to this article.
As President Barack Obama becomes the first US president to set foot in Cuba in half a century, he revealed that Google will expand Internet access on the island. But as US companies including Airbnb and Booking.com take advantage of friendlier relations between the two countries, experts have expressed concern of a "virtual land grab" by US companies.
The US has imposed trade and travel restrictions since 1962 against the communist-governed Caribbean island. But from 2008, presidents Obama and George W. Bush have overseen a thawing in relations, and on Sunday, President Obama touched down on the island for talks with Cuban leader Raul Castro. Obama's visit is the first by a US president since before the communist revolution of 1959.
Obama revealed that during his visit he would announce that Google is making Wi-Fi and broadband more widely available in Cuba. The company's Google Fiber broadband network is currently available in several parts of the US.
In the climate of thawing relations, US companies are scrambling to be a part of Cuba's tourism industry, already a major source of revenue for the island. Although it's technically illegal for them to travel to Cuba except in specific circumstances, 161,000 Americans were among the 3.5 million tourists from all over the world who visited Cuba last year.
US President Barack Obama and his family arrive at Jose Marti Airport in Havana, Cuba.
Commercial flights from the US to Cuba will resume in the fall, and US hotel chain Starwood plans to refurbish three hotels on the island. Ticket-booking website Booking.com, owned by Priceline, will in coming weeks begin allowing US customers to book vacations in Havana and plans to sign deals with existing hotels and tourism countries.
For the past year, Airbnb has been the only major US service allowing Americans to book accommodation in Cuba. Beginning in April the company, which allows homeowners to rent their rooms or homes to guests, will also allow people from other countries to book a place in Cuba.
Although it will provide an opportunity for ordinary people to earn money by renting out their space, Airbnb has been criticised for playing a part in housing problems in other countries. A recent report by industry observers Tom Slee and Murray Cox found that developers renting out multiple apartments in places such as New York and London drive up prices and keep housing off the market for permanent residents.
Cox has previously stayed in Cuba in accommodation rented out by citizens, known as casa particulares. "As someone that has travelled in Cuba prior to Airbnb," he said Monday, "it's exciting to hear that the United States is further dismantling their economic and travel restrictions, and I hope that this will provide new opportunities for the Cuban economy and their people.
"However, as tourism demand increases and restrictions are lifted on Airbnb's ability to operate in Cuba, my concern about Airbnb's business model in other cities around the world also applies to Cuba," he said.  Those concerns include "the commercialization of residential housing and its affect on communities."
Cox worries that "Airbnb might be party to one of the first virtual 'land grabs' by an American company in Cuba, concentrating profits in the hands of the most wealthy and connected Cubans, offshoring commissions, and profoundly disrupting residential housing in Cuba (which for 50 years has been mostly social housing)."
The Internet is still relatively new and limited to Cubans. Internet access is limited and relatively expensive under state-owned telecoms monopoly Empresa de Telecomunicaciones de Cuba (ETECSA). According to 2013 statistics from the International Telecommunication Union, only 25.7 percent of Cuba's 11 million-strong population use the Internet and just 12.7 percent of households have a computer at home. Broadband access at home can cost around $40 a month.
Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
A lot of years, a lot of phones, a lot of worries.
I watched Monday's Apple event while under the influence of nitrous oxide.
This isn't, I assure you, the way I usually start the week, but my dentist had summoned me at the crack of dawn for his sadistic pleasure.
I can't deny, however, that the nitrous oxide didn't help me get through an hour of solemn rumination on the state of the world.
It all began with CEO Tim Cook declaring that the government is after our freedoms. (But Apple will protect us.)
Then Apple's VP of environmental, policy, and social initiatives, Lisa Jackson, mused about how we, putrid humans, are destroying the world. (But Apple is helping to save it.)
The mood was hardly heightened when Chief Operating Officer Jeff Williams wandered to the stage. He reminded us how sick we might be. (But Apple is helping us get healthier, or at least helping us not to die so soon.)
It's little wonder that after expanding on all the perils in the world, Apple then showed us shrunken gadgets.
Think small. Small is beautiful. Go small and go home. The world's a scary place.
Apple announces a smaller iPhone, a 9.7-inch iPad Pro, and updates to its Watch, TV and iOS 9.3 software. Catch up with all the news in this supercut.
Cook mentioned that Apple will be 40 on April 1. When you get to 4o, you're not fooling anyone about your uncontrolled, rule-breaking dynamism.
He even went for the sweater look, perfect for this little fireside chat about keeping calm, carrying on and getting excited about a couple of new watch bands.
Monday's event underlined that Apple's gadgets are unlikely to enjoy radically new forms in the near future. Cupertino hasn't yet embraced the masked VR look.
If the gadgets were relevant at all at this show, it was only to encourage you to find new uses for them. So that you upgrade, you understand.
When you get to 40, you worry that you've seen it all. People start accusing you of repeating yourself. The array of middle-aged Apple executives who repeated how much people love Apple products was like watching a one-note barbershop choir perform "The Greatest Love Of All."
Forty-year-old Apple acts like it's had enough kids.
There's the MacBooks that have left home and started a family. There's the phone that's about to go to college, the iPad that's in middle school, and the youngest -- the Watch -- that's desperate for attention.
The 40-year-old dad is now going to let all these kids grow (and shrink) and find their places in the world, if they still have one.
You might have to be a spectator for a while. But don't worry, Apple will protect you from as much bad stuff as it can.