
Bitcoin has passed another major milestone, crossing over the $4,000 threshold on Sunday. The cryptocurrency, which has only been in existence for seven years, reached a high of $4,224 (equivalent to £3,244 or AU$5,343) shortly after 9 a.m. UTC on Sunday.
Bitcoin reached its highest ever closing price on Sunday. 
It's been a swift rise for bitcoin, which only passed the $3,000 marker for the first time at the start of the month. The rise also comes fresh off the heels of the so-called "hard fork" in bitcoin which saw a new virtual currency called Bitcoin Cash split off from bitcoin proper on August 1.
The split was designed to deal with the growing popularity of bitcoin, which was struggling to support an increasing number of transactions using existing blockchain technology, though the move left many wondering whether market values would fall.
But bitcoin seems to have defied expectations, pushing through the $4,000 barrier with ease, though there's no certainty on where values are headed -- particularly as we push closer toward the day when every bitcoin is mined.
Still, this is for sure: Purchasing 1 bitcoin for 8 cents back in 2010 would have netted you a 52,800-fold return today.
Tech Culture: From film and television to social media and games, here's your place for the lighter side of tech.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is cool. 
Amazon is warning buyers of some glasses used to view solar eclipses not to use them out of health concerns.
Amazon has issued a recall to customers who purchased eclipse glasses that may not have come from a recommended manufacturer.
The internet retailer began notifying buyers of the unverified glasses on Saturday, warning them not to use the product for viewing the much-anticipated total solar eclipse later this month. Customers who didn't receive a recall email are safe to use the ones they purchased.
"We recommend that you DO NOT use this product to view the sun or the eclipse," the email said.
Sales of eclipse glasses have been hot ahead of the Aug. 21 event, when the moon will pass in front of the sun, completely blotting it out for those along a 70-mile-wide corridor stretching across the contiguous United States.
The great American solar eclipse is coming, and we want to make sure you can see it safely. Check out these five NASA-approved manufacturers currently selling solar eclipse safety glasses.
Amazon said it issued the recall over concerns with the quality of the glasses.
"Safety is among our highest priorities. Out of an abundance of caution, we have proactively reached out to customers and provided refunds for eclipse glasses that may not comply with industry standards," Amazon said in a statement. " We want customers to buy with confidence anytime they make a purchase on Amazon.com and eclipse glasses sold on Amazon.com are required to comply with the relevant ISO standard."
The American Astronomical Society has information on how to make sure you are purchasing effective glasses for viewing the solar eclipse.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you -- and the world around you -- smarter.
Road Trip 2016: Reporters' dispatches from the field on tech's role in the global refugee crisis.
 Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
Men doing manly engineering things.
This weekend saw the return of the English Premier League.
Which means I was up early on Sunday, ready to watch soccer players from all over the world play much better than most English players.
During one of the NBC Sports ad breaks, however, I heard a boy's voice.
"I wanna make cars fly," he said.
I listened on. Ads interfere with sports, so I rarely look at the screen as I watch. 
The ad continued with another boy's voice. "I love turning old stuff into something amazing." 
I assumed this was an ad for some tech or engineering company. I should, therefore, have been fascinated. I still didn't look up.
The next voice was a little girl's: "I want to plant a garden for the whole world." 
Wait, so little boys build things and make them fly, while little girls potter about the garden and make sure everyone's fed? 
I finally looked up. "We grow up, but we never stop dreaming," says a female voiceover. Oh, it seems the sexes have very different dreams.
"Here at Koch," continued the voiceover, "we challenge ourselves and the status quo to produce innovations like renewable fuel, more energy-efficient vehicles and food for all."
Yet, looking at the ad, it's the men who do everything but the food part. They smile as they perform brain-sapping engineering tasks. They wear hard hats as they go into vast factories. 
While the women are in the garden. 
Koch Industries didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. And this is not to besmirch the alleged political leanings of its owners. 
Instead, it's to consider that as the controversy over a Google engineer's memo about gender roles and diversity grinds on -- with Google seeming entirely unsure how to handle it -- gender roles continue to be reinforced along traditionalist lines. 
This ad could at least have shown one woman engineer working with men. It could have presented a woman engineer being the boss of men. It could have shown men in the garden.
Instead, for every Verizon and Girls Who Code that tries to advance the notion that women have a place everywhere in tech, there still roams the opposite.
It may be that the makers of this ad behaved with complete unconsciousness in the writing and the casting. Which doesn't, of course, make it any better. 
It merely shows that this isn't going to disappear any time soon. Men are more interested in things and systems, claimed former Google employee James Damore. Women are, he said, more interested in people and feelings. 
How many women will look at this ad and have negative feelings toward the people and the system that made it? And how many will stop dreaming that creating flying cars is for them?
Koch itself entreats us to "challenge ourselves and the status quo." 
Now that's a very good idea. 
 Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
He's worried. Very worried.
The mention of several place-names currently invokes shudders.
Whether it be North Korea, Venezuela or even Charlottesville, Virginia, it's easy to get a shivering feeling that something existentially unpleasant might happen, with North Korea still topping many people's lists.
For Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk, however, there's something far bigger that should be worrying us: artificial intelligence.
In a Friday afternoon tweet, he offered, "If you're not concerned about AI safety, you should be. Vastly more risk than North Korea."
He accompanied this with a poster of a worried woman and the words, "In the end, the machines will win."
The machines always win, don't they? Look how phones have turned us into neck-craning zombies. And, lo, here was Musk also tweeting on Friday about a bot created by OpenAI -- the nonprofit he backs -- beating real humans at eSports.
Still, Musk thinks humanity can do something to fight the robots.
Indeed, he followed his North Korea message with a renewed call for AI regulation: "Nobody likes being regulated, but everything (cars, planes, food, drugs,  etc) that's a danger to the public is regulated. AI should be too."
Musk brought up this idea last month at a meeting of the National Governors Association. On Friday, he explained in the Twitter comments that AI really does pose an immediate threat. 
"Biggest impediment to recognizing AI danger are those so convinced of  their own intelligence they can't imagine anyone doing what they can't," he tweeted.
You really can't trust humans to do good, even supposedly intelligent humans. 
Especially in these times when few appear to agree what good even looks like. 
If you're not concerned about AI safety, you should be. Vastly more risk than North Korea. pic.twitter.com/2z0tiid0lc
Biggest impediment to recognizing AI danger are those so convinced of their own intelligence they can't imagine anyone doing what they can't
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
Google is dealing with a big controversy, after firing an engineer who wrote a contentious memo.
After James Damore, the Google engineer who was fired this week, wrote a contentious memo about gender and diversity, he said he wanted to start a conversation between the left and the right. In that regard, he's been wildly successful.
For those not following along, Damore, a senior engineer at the world's biggest search engine, wrote a memo about a month ago entitled "Google's Ideological Echo Chamber." It went viral throughout Google and last week it leaked to the press.
In the 10-page, 3,300-word manifesto, the 28-year-old argues that a gender gap at Google exists not solely because of sexism, but in part because of "biological" differences between men and women. The memo went viral after being posted on an internal network and sparked outrage from some Google employees.
Damore has been on a media tour, giving interviews to Bloomberg and conservative YouTube host Stefan Molyneux. On Friday, he continued the blitz. In an op-ed in The Wall Street Journal called "Why I was Fired by Google," he slammed the company for its attempt to "silence open and honest discussion."
"How did Google, the company that hires the smartest people in the world, become so ideologically driven and intolerant of scientific debate and reasoned argument?" he wrote.
The op-ed comes a day after Google CEO Sundar Pichai was supposed to hash it all out in an all-hands meeting with the company's more than 60,000 employees. Pichai canceled the meeting, though, after some employees expressed concerns about being harassed online. Later that night, Pichai made a public appearance at an event near Google's campus focused on young girls in tech.
"I want you to know there's a place for you in this industry," Pichai said to the young women in the audience. "There's a place for you at Google. Don't let anyone tell you otherwise. You belong here, and we need you."
The controversy has fueled a national debate, at a time when Silicon Valley has had to grapple with tough questions about the diversity of its ranks. (Google's workforce is 69 percent male. That jumps to 80 percent when you consider just technical jobs.) The backlash has also turned Damore into a conservative hero, with one right-wing group setting up a crowdfunding page that's raised tens of thousands of dollars for the former Googler.
In the aftermath of memo-gate, everyone's had an opinion.
On Friday, Susan Fowler, the former Uber engineer who shone a spotlight on the ride-hailing giant's workplace culture and diversity issues, weighed in after Damore's op-ed. She said the personal essay proved his memo was "sexist" and "anti-diversity."
Which is exactly how those of us who called it sexist and "anti-diversity" interpreted it.
David Brooks, the New York Times' conservative columnist, called for Pichai to resign. "This episode suggests he should seek a nonleadership position," Brooks wrote. "We are at a moment when mobs on the left and the right ignore evidence and destroy scapegoats. That's when we need good leaders most."
So, forthright opinions all around. And needless to say, the issue isn't going away anytime soon. 
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.
CEO Sundar Pichai called off a public debate about a now-dismissed engineer's views that biological factors may partly explain why there are fewer women in tech. What's next?
Hosted by: CNET Editors

With contribution from Stephen Beacham.
Say goodbye to Marvel, Star Wars and Disney movies on Netflix in 2019 when Disney launches its own streaming service. Can Netflix's Millarworld purchase help fill the hole?
If your heart plummeted like mine did on Tuesday when Disney announced it would be creating its own streaming service and pulling its content from Netflix, you might be able to pick it up off the floor. 
According to a Reuters report, Netflix Chief Content Officer Ted Sarandos says the two companies are still in talks about the future of at least the Marvel and Star Wars content (Lucasfilm being a subsidiary of Disney).
Since Disney's service isn't slated to launch until 2019, we'll probably be hearing a lot of talk about talks as the negotiations continue. 
Netflix and Disney did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
This is part of our Road Trip 2017 summer series "The Smartest Stuff," about how innovators are thinking up new ways to make you — and the world around you — smarter. 
The city of the future is going to be cool, with smart tech that helps you live your life.
But no one knows exactly what the fantastical city we've been dreaming about looks like, how it'll work and what it'll do. 
Take car companies, for example. When they dreamed up their ideal smart city, they imagined sensor networks in roads that told commuters the perfect time to head to work, allowed cars to self-drive to their destinations and even automatically park in a garage. Some of those innovations are already here.
Antonio Puliafito's phone directs us to a parking spot, tracked by the prototype smart city project, SmartMe.
Apps for Apple's iPhone and mobile devices powered by Google's Android software can alert drivers when they should leave for an appointment and suggest the best route to get you where you're going. Meanwhile, tech companies like Uber, Alphabet and Apple and car makers including Ford are playing with self-driving technology that could be in production in the next five years.
Since those issues are largely being tackled by companies, city governments are focusing their efforts on automating tasks that make a city tick. 
The sensors that may eventually help you find parking could pull double duty by alerting the city to potholes. And they'll also sense the air's quality and talk to our asthma inhalers and fire alarms. Rescue teams will be able to respond to emergencies faster because they're automatically alerted to alarms, rather than merely relying on people to call 9-1-1.
In short, sensors, apps and other smart tech is going to make the job of managing and protecting cities easier. And that should make living in tomorrow's cities a lot more fun.
Fast and reliable internet connections are a must to make smart cities a reality.
The first step in building a smart city is to get widely accessible super-fast internet, something cities from Cincinnati to San Francisco are still working on. After that, it's all about tackling data.
The way it works is this: Once the city starts collecting info, it can start curating and publishing that data in easy, downloadable formats.
Want to know how many crimes have been committed in Chicago from 2001 until now? It's here. (Spoiler: it's nearly 6.4 million.) Curious about food inspections? Search away. You can even find out how many people called the Windy City to remove graffiti.
"Governments have a huge amount of data," says Rahm Emanuel, the mayor of Chicago and a former chief of staff for President Barack Obama. "A smart city is how you use that data to be more effective as a government agency for the will of the people."
Some cities have run into a slight snag after publishing all this information: It turns out very few people read it.
"Not everyone's a data geek," said Harry Black, Cincinnati's city manager.
But that hasn't stopped Chicago or Cincinnati, which have been experimenting with how to make the data more interesting and useful.
One way was by attaching GPS location trackers to snow plows and putting them on live updating maps so residents know when they're coming. That's been a big hit in both cities. "You've got to think outside the box," Black said.
San Francisco, for example, was one of the first cities to publish real-time route information about buses and trains on the web. Software developers, excited by Apple's new iPhone in 2007, began building apps to take advantage of these bus trackers.
A decade later, more than 1,200 cities around the world share their public transit schedules with app developers, helping to power new companies like Moovit in Israel and Montreal-based Transit. Meanwhile, Google and its Waze driving app subsidiary are working with cities to share information about drivers and traffic patterns.
The city of London is hoping to take public data sharing a step further. David Gann, a professor and vice president of innovation at Imperial College London and chairman of the smart city project there, has been bringing together both public and private information, like performance of electric delivery vans, into a collection of more than 700 datasets.
That kind of information can also help the government and businesses better predict when things like traffic will be heavy, or when internet connections might likely be constrained, and even where it might be best to install a new electric-vehicle charging station. One project he's interested in is using data to find new approaches to how trucks deliver online shopping packages, while avoiding traffic congestion and air pollution.
"This is all about making life easier and taking the friction out of city living," Gann said. That's particularly important when a city is growing as rapidly as London, which is expanding by about 100,000 people a year.
Louisville, Kentucky, may be best known for its bourbon and BBQ. But it's also been experimenting with tech to speed up city services.
One early success was in detecting trouble in vacant and abandoned buildings. These properties tend to be more fire-prone because no one's around to notice a blaze. That also means firefighters don't usually arrive on scene for about 15 minutes -- the typical response time to a fire in the city is less than four minutes.
Hackers in Louisville, Kentucky, worked with the city to create CASPER, a wireless device that listens for smoke detectors in abandoned buildings and sends text messages to let authorities know there could be a fire.
But adding alarms to a vacant property that automatically calls the authorities is expensive. So, Louisville began experimenting with a sensor that has a built-in microphone and a cellular connection that can pick up the noise from a nearby fire detector instead. The unit costs about $150 to make, plus a $10-a-month charge for the data plan.
It worked.
Another project records GPS location whenever someone uses a rescue inhaler or daily controller medication. More than 1,000 local citizens signed up. Public health officials can then work with other city department to change traffic patterns, for example.
The city also shares that info with inhaler therapists, who are able to work with patients to cut use by as much as 89 percent.
"It couldn't happen without citizens coming together to make it happen," says Greg Fischer, the mayor of Louisville.
In Chicago, the third largest city in the US, an innovation accelerator called UI Labs has begun investigating tech to monitor storm drainage systems as part of an effort to avoid flooding from the Chicago River.
The new initiative just finished its nine-month pilot program and the team is currently assessing data.
Chicago is monitoring storm drainage with sensors.
Another project underway will help Chicago create digital maps of underground utility systems, including telecommunications, water and power lines. Until now, the city's had to rely on outdated and incomplete maps, which slows down construction permitting and emergency services.
"Currently, it takes up to 30 days just to begin construction in the city of Chicago, at a minimum," said Katie Olson, who oversees operations for the mapping program at UI Labs.
So Olson's team worked with an app developer to use phone cameras to take video during underground construction. That video is now being turned into a digital subterranean map of the city.
America's third-largest city is creating a digital blueprint of its underground pipes, installing smart streetlights, and using sensors to help prevent flooding.
Click here to see more Road Trip adventures.
One of the biggest challenges in building out a smart city is finding the funds to make it happen. That's where San Diego is ahead of the game.
California's second-most populous city used a $30 million partnership with GE to help upgrade aging street lamps with energy-saving light emitting diodes, or LEDs. They'll last up to a decade, instead of the one to three years the city gets from lightbulbs today.
That GE funding, plus about $3 million per year saved from more efficient lamps, is being used to help fund projects like wireless sensor networks.
San Diego found other ways to up its tech game while saving money too. The city launched a shuttle service last year called Free Ride Everywhere Downtown -- or FRED -- costs about a quarter of a downtown shuttle system, while moving the same number of people. And of course, you can hail the FRED taxis with an app.
"At the end of the day, this has to be practical," said David Graham, deputy chief operating officer for the city of San Diego. 
Road Trip 2016: Reporters' dispatches from the field on tech's role in the global refugee crisis. 
Road Trip 2015: CNET hunts for innovation outside the Silicon Valley bubble. 
This is part of our Road Trip 2017 summer series "The Smartest Stuff," about how innovators are thinking up new ways to make you — and the world around you — smarter. 
James Jackson has a problem: He doesn't know what he's getting into.
Every time a construction crew begins digging in Chicago, there's a chance they'll hit something they didn't know was there. It might be an old water line, abandoned long ago and forgotten. Or perhaps a gas pipe, still in use but poorly documented.
Sure, his utility maintenance and construction firm, HBK Engineering, always talks to the city, and gathers blueprints and collects maps of underground pipes wherever they're about to work. But the crews can never be certain.
Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel on balancing spending: "You have to make some choices. You can't do it all. Where is it that you have the maximum impact?"
In Chicago, incorporated in 1837, the underground network of pipes is so complex, and the records are so outdated and incomplete, the city has created an Office of Underground Coordination. Its job is to pore over dozens of old maps to try to identify what's underneath a construction site before a crew digs.
And when crews do find something unexpected, they have to stop what they're doing and call the city, which brings in a specialist to see if the pipe is being used. The crew then has to get approval to take it out so they can start work again.
"That's just delaying time," says Jackson, a senior vice president at HBK.
America's third-largest city is creating a digital blueprint of its underground pipes, installing smart streetlights, and using sensors to help prevent flooding.
Now the solution may rest with the phone in his pocket, and a computer program the city helped develop that creates a digital blueprint of Chicago's underground pipeline network of sewer, water, electricity, gas, broadband and other services from about 30 companies and utilities.
The mapping project is just one of dozens of smart city initiatives happening around the world. Places like Barcelona, Singapore, San Diego and Sicily are exploring projects or coordinating citywide efforts that, for instance, allow their residents to automatically report potholes, find and reserve parking spots, monitor air quality and even answer the all-important question: When will a snowplow clear my street?
Construction crews in Chicago never really know what they're going to find when they dig under the city's downtown. It could be an abandoned pipe or an important, but poorly documented, power conduit. 
In Chicago, many of these efforts are being created through $320 million public-private partnership called UI Labs ("University + Industry"). Based on Goose Island on the north end of the Chicago River, UI Labs aims to "address problems too big for any one organization to solve on its own," according to its website. That includes the 3D map of Chicago's underground infrastructure, launched last October.
Chicago has other projects underway as well. One standout: finding ways to combat rats. The city, which has historically received more complaints about rodents than any other major metro area in the US, saw rat complaints surge 70 percent in the first three months of 2016. Now it's using computer analyses to predict where rats will be, based on reports of overflowing garbage and planned water and sewer pipe repairs, which tend to bring the long-tailed pests into the open.  
The city also has a website where people can see the real-time locations of snowplows after a blizzard (a big deal, given the average snowfall in Chicago is 37.6 inches). And starting next month, Chicago will begin replacing its 270,000 street lamps with LEDs, saving electricity costs and, eventually, connecting to a system that will dim the bulbs as the sun comes out.
While the projects are largely disconnected from each other, they all aim to make Chicago a much smarter city to live and work in.
"My whole thing is to allow us not just to use data to be better at what we do, although that's what it is, but also to continue to give people a chance to interact and interface with their government," Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel, former chief of staff for President Barack Obama, tells me when we sit down together at Chicago's City Hall.
"You have to think of this in my position, not yours," he adds. "How do you make it — when talking about it —relevant to people? Not threatening, but welcoming?"     
Take that underground map, for example, a pilot project that involves HBK; an image analysis startup called Reconstruct; and software maker Cityzenith.
The mapping process starts after a construction crew digs into the ground and replaces a pipe, installs a new one or fixes a broken one. That's when a crew member pulls out a phone and — circling the perimeter, first in one direction and then the other — records a video of the visible pipes.
The video is shot at street level because there's always a danger the excavation could collapse. The team uses video instead of a series of photos because it provides enough frames for the next stage of the process handled by Reconstruct, a year-old startup founded by a University of Illinois assistant professor. There, computers use a technique called point clouds to analyze each frame. Think of it as using the computer to scan each pipe from every angle it sees, then converting that information into a digital drawing.
So far it's taken about two weeks to produce a 3D model of the construction site, whose files can be read by a variety of programs used by engineers and architects. That includes a project UI Labs has been testing called 5D Smart World, from Cityzenith, which creates a Google Maps-like model of the city's underground infrastructure.
Chicago has just begun what will likely be a five-year effort to map the underground pipeline network of sewer, water, electricity, gas, broadband and other services in its downtown area.
At a bird's eye view, Smart World displays a gray 3D representation of the city's buildings. But zoom in, beyond the buildings, and a network of pipes appears beneath the streets. Each pipe is color coded as well, showing its route and what it's connected to throughout the city.
UI Labs says being able to see where pipes are, what they do and how they're interconnected in one place could replace Chicago's paper maps. Just as useful, such a digital map can be updated with each new scan of a construction site.
"Ultimately what we want is a three-dimensional understanding of the underground facilities or network of utilities underneath the pavement," says Jackson. "Then they can anticipate or know where the electrical power is so they don't hit or damage it and wind up causing an outage."
Cityzenith's program, still in pilot phase, has also been used in Amsterdam, Barcelona, Dubai and San Francisco. UI Labs expects to have a completed underground map of downtown Chicago within the next five years.
In the meantime, UI Labs believes these new digital maps will help cut the overall time of a construction project by four to 14 months. That includes reducing Chicago's average 30-day wait for building permits, says Katie Olson, program director for the project.
The mapping effort may seem trivial in a city like Chicago, which struggles with alarming homicide rates and budget shortfalls that have led to hikes on everything from property taxes to water and sewer bills, and even phone fees that fund 911.
But the payoff could be big, reducing costly accidents, street closures and construction delays.
"You have to make some choices. You can't do it all," Emanuel says. "Where is it that you have the maximum impact?"
Here's what else Emanuel had to say about governments, tech and smart cities. His comments have been edited for length and clarity.
Governments have two gears: first and fifth. We either do too little too late or too much too soon. And we don't have a sense of nuance. We're not really built for dealing with individual residents. We do it en masse.
Mayor Emanuel meets with CNET Executive Editor Ian Sherr to talk about his vision for making Chicago a smart city. 
You have to think of this in my position, not yours. How do you make it — when talking about it —relevant to people? Not threatening, but welcoming? And that's what we're working on.
Governments have a huge amount of data. In the private sector, they are using this data to be much more sophisticated about how they deliver services or sell products.
Government is not in the business of selling. It's in the business of delivering or doing something for its residents as a representative form of government.
My first year here, I put a snowplow tracker on every truck in Chicago. It was a big cultural shift in the department. Like, "Why would we do that?"
I said, "So people could tell where the snowplow is. So we could share [information] with the public."
It was like a mind shift. We're in the business of being public servants.
Then the thing was to not only put it so you could track the truck, but you could track where it was going on the street. Was it headed towards your street? Whose street got plowed first?
Click here to see more Road Trip adventures.
I want to see a time when we're communicating to parents early in their child's life. "Have you taken them to the museum? Have you played music?"
All the things that should be done as a reminder — helping parents be good parents and suggesting types of things that they could do that would dramatically improve their child's brain.
In the same way, you could do it as people get older. One of the big challenges is reminding many people to take their medicine.
So using the 311 system in telecommunications in a much more interactive basis, more from a communication and message directly to the end user. And leveraging the technology they have already, of course.
Road Trip 2016: Reporters' dispatches from the field on tech's role in the global refugee crisis. 
Road Trip 2015: CNET hunts for innovation outside the Silicon Valley bubble. 
 Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
Actually unreliable? Or just reportedly unreliable?
I fancy there were several red faces at Microsoft on Thursday. 
Angry red, I mean.
It's never a good day when a respected organization like Consumer Reports un-recommends your Surface products and declares that they have an estimated 25 percent chance of breaking down within two years. 
As my colleague Dan Ackerman explained in his excellent analysis, there's been no widespread evidence that Surfaces are poorly made. And this survey didn't seem to cover any Surface models made in the last two years. In other words, it didn't include the current Surface Pro and Surface Laptop models released in 2017.
Moreover, Consumer Reports' conclusion was based on a survey of 90,741 tablets and laptops bought by its subscribers. How many of them actually owned Surface devices isn't clear.
"We never divulge the exact  number. But we can say that the minimum number of responses needed for  any brand to be included in our analyses is 300," a Consumer Reports spokesman told me. 
Ah.
Microsoft may have a problem -- and not just because Apple's estimated breakage rate in the same Consumer Reports survey was 10 percent. That was the lowest among all the major players in the laptop industry. By sharp contrast, Microsoft's rate was the highest.
Redmond's corporate vice president of devices, Panos Panay, vigorously -- angrily, it felt -- defended the Surface's product quality in a blog post Thursday.
"In the Surface team we track quality constantly, using metrics that  include failure and return rates – both our predicted 1-2-year failure  and actual return rates for Surface Pro 4 and Surface Book are  significantly lower than 25 percent," he said. 
He didn't specify how much lower, however. He did say that incidents per unit were now well below 1 percent. 
Both sides can present figures. But rationality only goes so far. The bigger issues for Microsoft are the impression left and the potential that it will last.
When Consumer Reports un-recommended Apple's laptops because of alleged battery issues at the end of 2016, the bitterness was short and sweet. Within three weeks -- including, one imagines, aggressive Apple lobbying -- Consumer Reports was suddenly happy. All it had taken, apparently, was a software update.
That's what Microsoft must hope for too. It needs a very swift replay review and a call of "safe." 
Otherwise, the negative whispers will spread and the brand will get tarnished with a touch of rust-bucketyness. Once that happens, a brand often ends up in a defensive posture.
That would be painful for Microsoft, as it's just become a confident aggressor.
After all, the Surface brand has become a genuine competitor, one that, with the Surface Studio last year, made Apple's laptops look as alluring as the Gap collection, circa winter 2010. 
Microsoft may have a slightly harder task here. 
It's not as if it can ask all of the Consumer Reports subscribers to think again about whether they really had issues with their Surface devices or whether they were partaking of an ill-advised carafe of Touriga Nacional at survey time. 
One temptation may be to suddenly release ads that trumpet the Surface's reliability. This might be a mistake. When you protest even a little, it may already be too much.
Redmond will, no doubt, spend the next weeks and months tracking its data and poring over its focus group research. (Oh, you know there'll be focus group research after this.)
It will hope that this August news will disappear like a mere after-dinner belch.
Next best would be reports of markedly increased Surface sales. 
Luckily, we're heading into the NFL season, where the Surface plays center. 
The coaches hold it, the players look into it and now even the referees are staring at replay reviews on it.
It would surely lift Redmond's spirits if New England Patriots' coach -- and notorious Surface-loather -- Bill Belichick suddenly declared that the product was 10 times better than a MacBook or an iPad Pro.
And at least five times better than the paper which he preferred for much of last season.
Correction, Aug. 11 at 9:20 a.m. PT: Fixes the difference between the estimated breakage rates for Microsoft and Apple products.
Tech Culture: From film and television to social media and games, here's your place for the lighter side of tech.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is cool. 
Google CEO Sundar Pichai is expected to address Googlers about diversity on Thursday.
Google CEO Sundar Pichai canceled an all-hands staff meeting Thursday meant to address a diversity controversy that in the last few days has dogged the company behind the world's largest search engine. 
"We had hoped to have a frank, open discussion today as we always do to bring us together and move forward," Pichai wrote in a memo obtained by CNET. But employee questions "appeared externally this afternoon, and on some websites Googlers are now being named personally. Googlers are writing in, concerned about their safety and worried they may be 'outed' publicly for asking a question."
Even though the meeting has been put off, Pichai still has a lot of explaining to do. The question is: Does he have the right answer?
To recap: A senior Google engineer named James Damore wrote a 10-page, 3,300-word manifesto, entitled "Google's Ideological Echo Chamber," that argued a gender gap at Google exists not because of sexism, but because of "biological" differences between men and women. TLDR: Women aren't cut out for high-stress leadership roles or for jobs in tech.
Damore's manifesto went viral internally at the company and was made public Friday night. It caused a swift firestorm: Googlers publicly criticized it on Twitter. Megan Smith, a former Googler and CTO of the United States under the administration of former President Barack Obama, said engineers with viewpoints like Damore's "are misguided and they are destructive to their colleagues. It causes people to leave the industry."
Pichai, one of the most prominent Indian-born executives in tech, issued a companywide response, saying the memo went against Google's "basic values and our Code of Conduct, which expects each Googler to do their utmost to create a workplace culture that is free of harassment, intimidation, bias and unlawful discrimination." 
He thought the issue was so serious it prompted him to cut short his family's overseas vacation.
Google fired the 28-year-old Damore earlier this week. Damore, who has been a researcher at MIT, Harvard and Princeton and has worked at Google for more than three years, reportedly said he was submitting a complaint against Google to the National Labor Relations Board.
The "alt-right" movement has come to his defense. One group set up a crowdfunding page for Damore that's raised more than $37,000 as of Thursday afternoon, arguing that "the radical Left has been whipping up hate mobs to get independents, libertarians, conservatives, and simple contrarians publicly shamed, bullied, and fired from their jobs for years." Damore gave his first interview after he was fired to conservative YouTube host Stefan Molyneux. Damore told him one of his motivations for creating the memo: He went to a Google diversity class and spoke up because he disagreed about the points. "There was so much hypocrisy in a lot of the things they were saying," he said.
In another interview later Wednesday, Damore told Bloomberg TV that Google executives are now smearing him. "There was a concerted effort among upper management to have a very clear signal that what I did was harmful and wrong and didn't stand for Google," Damore told Bloomberg TV. "It would be career suicide for any executives or directors to support me."
James Damore says Google is shaming him for speaking out about his views on gender diversity, which have been condemned by executives as advancing stereotypes. Google's CEO is set to talk about the issue at a companywide meeting Thursday.
The controversy surfaces painful critiques about Silicon Valley, an industry that proudly proclaims itself a meritocracy. It's often said here that code settles all arguments. Damore's musings show clearly it's a bit more complicated than that.
But there are also nonphilosophical questions at hand, which Pichai will likely need to address.
For starters, Google's internal systems rely at least partly on peer reviews, in which "employees at the company are expected to judge their colleague's work in a peer-review process that is essential to deciding whether someone gets promoted," The New York Times noted. "By expressing certain beliefs -- such as that women are more prone to anxiety -- the concern was that he could no longer be impartial in judging female co-workers."
Is Google revisiting Damore's peer reviews -- seeing as how his input could have negatively impacted his female coworkers?
Google declined to comment.
Have any of the people peer reviewed by Damore requested that those reviews be revisited?
Google declined to comment.
What about his boss, Google co-founder Larry Page? He's CEO of Google's parent company Alphabet, and a fellow board member. Will he weigh in? What does he think?
Google declined to comment.
And the company also denied my request to attend the meeting at the Googleplex in Mountain View, California, saying it was for Googlers only. But it's almost certain that whatever Pichai eventually says about the issue will make its way out into the public.
The timing of the fallout couldn't be worse. Google is in the middle of a US Department of Labor investigation examining claims of gender pay discrimination. (Google has denied those allegations.) And the spotlight is shining as intensely as ever on the notion of Silicon Valley as a boys club. Google's workforce is 31 percent women, according to the company's latest diversity report. That drops to 20 percent when you count just technical staff. Even with a big push for diversity at the company, the percentage of women and minorities has remained stagnant.
The drama also comes after Uber became a poster child of bro culture, prompted by a blog post written by former engineer Susan Fowler in February about the harassment and sexist culture she faced during her year at the world's leading ride-hailing company. After an internal investigation led by former Attorney General Eric Holder, CEO Travis Kalanick resigned in June.
No one's expecting Pichai to step down. But they are expecting the man building the search engine of the future, one that can anticipate all your questions, to have a few answers.
(As a thought exercise, Googling "how to fix the diversity problem in the tech industry" yields a few suggestions. Expand the talent pipeline. Come up with a "more comprehensive set of metrics to track and measure the problems." It's more complex than that, but you get the idea.)
At the very least, Pichai has shown he's taking the whole situation seriously. He already fired Damore and brought the wrath of the "alt-right" down on Google. And he's already denounced many of the ideas about gender that Damore brought up in his memo.
"To suggest a group of our colleagues have traits that make them less biologically suited to that work is offensive and not OK," Pichai wrote. 
Google also recently hired a diversity chief, Danielle Brown, who condemned Damore's manifesto in a memo to employees. "We are unequivocal in our belief that diversity and inclusion are critical to our success as a company," she wrote. "And we'll continue to stand for that and be committed to it for the long haul."
The all-hands meeting was the first chance Pichai had to speak to his workforce face-to-face on the hot-button issue. Now they'll have to wait to see what he has to say.
So will the rest of the tech industry.
First published Aug. 9, 9:01 p.m. PT.Update, Aug. 10 at 4:32 p.m.: Adds that all-hands meeting was canceled. 
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.
CEO Sundar Pichai called off a public debate about a now-dismissed engineer's views that biological factors may partly explain why there are fewer women in tech. What's next?
On Thursday afternoon, it was a quiet, average day at Google's sprawling headquarters in Mountain View, California. 
That's because Google CEO Sundar Pichai canceled what was supposed to be the main event of the day: An all-hands town hall meeting scheduled for 4 p.m. to address the diversity controversy that has dogged company for the past week after some of the proposed questions were leaked online.
By the late afternoon and early evening, Googlers were filtering out, going to on-site aerobics classes, playing volleyball, or hanging out in the courtyard drinking wine and beer. It wasn't the tense, emotional atmosphere that was billed to accompany the meeting. But none of the Google workers approached by CNET would offer any comment.  
Google CEO Sundar Pichai says employee safety prompted cancellation of an all-hands meeting on the company's diversity memo controversy.
In a email sent to employees Thursday, Pichai cited the personal safety of Google employees as the reason for the cancellation. He said he had heard from several employees concerned about online harassment they would receive due to their names and questions being published by outside websites. For example, the conservative pundit Milo Yiannopoulos posted on his Facebook page the Twitter biographies of eight Googlers who had criticized the memo, Wired reported earlier. 
"We had hoped to have a frank, open discussion today as we always do to bring us together and move forward," Pichai wrote in his memo. "But our Dory questions [those recommended by an app for attention] appeared externally this afternoon, and on some websites Googlers are now being named personally. Googlers are writing in, concerned about their safety and worried they may be 'outed' publicly for asking a question in the Town Hall." 
Despite the cancellation of Thursday's meeting, Google intends to create another venue for employees to discuss the matter.
"We'll find a better way to help our employees connect and discuss these important issues further," a Google spokesperson said in a statement. 
Pichai called the meeting in the wake of the firing of a Google engineer named James Damore, who wrote a 10-page manifesto titled "Google's Ideological Echo Chamber" that argued a gender gap at Google exists not because of sexism, but because of "biological" differences between men and women. The memo went viral after being posted on an internal network and sparked outrage from Google employees.
The controversy comes as Silicon Valley companies grapple with how to increase workforce diversity in an industry dominated by white men and permeated with corporate cultures that seem biased against women and female engineers. Google, Facebook, Microsoft and other tech companies now regularly release diversity reports, highlighting low percentages of women and minority employees, with few moving up the management chain.
Damore was fired by Google on Monday -- the same day Pichai told employees that the memo's author violated company  rules by circulating the controversial memo. He said it's "not OK" for  employees to feel that they can't "safely express their views  (especially those with a minority viewpoint)."
Damore has said he believes his dismissal was illegal and that he  would "likely be pursuing legal action." Before his firing, Damore said  he submitted a complaint to the National Labor Relations Board charging  Google's upper management with "misrepresenting and shaming me in order  to silence my complaints."
The "alt-right" movement has come to the 28-year-old Damore's defense. One group set up a crowdfunding page for Damore that's raised more than $37,000.
The news of the cancellation was first reported by Recode.
Here's the full text of Pichai's memo:
Dear Googlers,
TL;DR Sorry for the late notice but we are going to cancel today's Town Hall.
We had hoped to have a frank, open discussion today as we always do to bring us together and move forward. But our Dory questions appeared externally this afternoon, and on some websites Googlers are now being named personally. Googlers are writing in, concerned about their safety and worried they may be "outed" publicly for asking a question in the Town Hall.
In recognition of Googlers' concerns, we need to step back and create a better set of conditions for us to have the discussion. So in the coming days we will find several forums to gather and engage with Googlers, where people can feel comfortable to speak freely. We'll share details soon.
Over the past two days, I have had the chance to meet with so many people here, and I have read each of your emails carefully. The vast majority of you are very supportive of our decision. A smaller percentage of you wish we would do more. And some are worried that you cannot speak out at work freely. All of your voices and opinions matter...and I want to hear them.
In the meantime, let's not forget what unites us as a company-- our desire to build great products for everyone that make a big difference in their lives. I have been in a few product discussions today and felt energized by the important things we are working on. We can, and will continue, to come together to do the very best for the people we serve.
Stay tuned.
First published Aug. 11, 4:10 p.m. PT.Update, 4:30 p.m.: Adds Google comment, full text of memo.
Update, 8:27 p.m.: Adds details about the scene at Google's headquarters.
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.
Say "women in tech" and the phrase automatically conveys the sense of too few women, making less money and wielding less say and sway in shaping the industry. While that's true, gender disparity isn't a numbers story. Instead, it's about what women and men, companies and universities are doing today to solve outdated group think.

Even a dancing hot dog can't get people excited about Snapchat again.
On Thursday, Snap, the company behind the social network, said Snapchat gained 7 million daily active users over the past three months, a modest rise from the total 166 million daily active users Snap mentioned in its earnings report in May. Though any rise is good, the 173 million total users still doesn't surpass the 250 million daily active users of Instagram Stories, which celebrated its first birthday last Wednesday.
The results underscore the heat Snapchat is feeling from copycat features offered by Facebook and Instagram. Instagram Stories, in particular, has essentially flattened Snapchat's meteoric rise, while looking exactly like the social network. In an anniversary post, Instagram listed Puppy Ears as its most popular face filter -- you know, exactly like the filter that helped make Snapchat so popular. 
The results also indicate that Snapchat's growth is slowing. In May, Snap said 8 million more people were using its app each day.
Meanwhile, Snap still isn't profitable. The company reported a loss of 16 cents a share, excluding some items, compared with average analyst expectations of 15 cents a share, according to Yahoo Finance. 
Revenue more than doubled, to $181 million, though it was still below analysts expectations of $186 million. The company reported a loss of $443 million this quarter, quadrupling from the $115 million net loss last June. 
The majority of that loss is still from stock-based compensation, which resulted in a $2.2 billion loss last quarter.
Snap is trying to turn things around. It added multiple new features for users, like Snap Maps, links, and background filters, which founder Evan Spiegel has said would be its best strategy for overcoming imitators. Snapchat even found another hit on its hands, with its dancing hot dog filter, but it hasn't been enough, despite being viewed more than 1.5 billion times. 
"Our dancing hot dog is most likely the world's first augmented reality superstar," Spiegel said.
Shares closed up less than 1 percent, to $13.77, but fell nearly 12 percent in after-hours trading following the earnings release. Snap's shares have lost half their value from their IPO, and are down from the $17.73 closing price on its first quarterly earnings report.
As for Snap as a "camera company," that model hasn't worked for them either, as only 0.05 percent of its users actually own the Spectacles. It didn't get much better in the second quarter, with the company only earning $5.4 million from their camera-sunglasses hybrid, that's down from $8 million sold in the first quarter.
That means that only 41,000 people bought Spectacles, or about 0.02 percent of Snapchat's users.  
Spiegel told investors during a conference call that he and Bobby Murphy, Snapchat's co-founder, wouldn't be selling any of his shares this year.
"We believe deeply in the long-term success of Snap," Spiegel said.
Update, 3:17 p.m. PT: To add comments from Snapchat executives. 
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
It's Complicated: This is dating in the age of apps. Having fun yet?
Former Uber CEO Travis Kalanick is being sued by Benchmark, one of the company's early investors.
One of Uber's early investors has sued the company's former CEO Travis Kalanick for fraud.
Benchmark Capital filed a complaint in Delaware Chancery Court on Thursday alleging the ride-hailing company's co-founder hasn't acted in the interest of Uber's stockholders, employees, drivers and passengers. It also says Kalanick failed to disclose to the board "gross mismanagement," including "pervasive gender discrimination and sexual harassment." Axios first reported this news.
"Kalanick's overarching objective is to pack Uber's Board with loyal allies in an effort to insulate his prior conduct from scrutiny and clear the path for his eventual return as CEO," the complaint reads.
Uber declined to comment. Neither Benchmark nor Kalanick could be reached for comment.
Uber has experienced a rough ride over the last few months. Once the ride-hailing powerhouse, a slew of scandals has led to the toppling of the company's upper management, including Kalanick. Earlier on Thursday, Ryan Graves, the company's first employee and senior vice president of global operations, said he was stepping down too. Uber is actively searching for a new chief executive.
Not only is Benchmark Capital one of Uber's early backers, it also holds a seat on the company's board. Initially, Benchmark investor Bill Gurley held the seat but after reportedly leading the effort to ouster Kalanick as CEO, his seat was replaced by another member of the venture capital firm. Kalanick also holds a seat on the board.
Rumors have been flying over the last week that Kalanick is plotting a return as CEO of Uber. The company flatly denied that's happening. But if Benchmark wins its suit against Kalanick, he'd be removed from Uber's board and any chance of his reinstatement as CEO would likely disappear.
In the meantime, Benchmark is asking for a preliminary injunction against Kalanick and his involvement on Uber's board.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is cool.
CNET Magazine: Check out a sampling of the stories you'll find in CNET's newsstand edition.
Uber's Ryan Graves is stepping down as SVP but will stay on the board.
Uber is losing another executive.
Ryan Graves, the ride-hailing company's senior vice president of global operations, sent an email to Uber employees Thursday saying he's stepping down, CNET learned from a source familiar with the matter. Graves said that though he'll no longer stay in his SVP role, he'll continue on as Uber's board director.
"In the past 7.5 years of building Uber, I've learned so many different lessons, one of which is the fact that people who embrace uncertainty and change have the best grip on reality," Graves wrote in the email.
Graves is the latest in a long line of executives to leave the company. Mired in scandals, Uber has lost more than a dozen high-level execs over the past few months -- mostly notably its notoriously aggressive CEO Travis Kalanick. Uber is now actively searching for a new chief executive.
Before Kalanick's departure, Uber President Jeff Jones, head of finance Gautam Gupta, president of engineering Amit Singhal and the head of its self-driving car program, Anthony Levandowski, also left the company.
Graves was the first employee hired by Uber and quickly ascended the company's ranks. He briefly served as CEO in 2010 before Kalanick took over that same year. As the SVP of global operations, Graves has focused on initiatives like Uber's food delivery service, UberEats.
Graves wrote in his email that he'll stay on as SVP of global operations through mid-September and then will transition on.
"In some ways my focus going forward will not actually change very much," Graves wrote. "It remains all about people, and it's clear to me the stability of our board of directors, the selection of our new CEO, and the empowerment of our management team is what is needed most." 
Tech Culture: From film and television to social media and games, here's your place for the lighter side of tech.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is cool. 
To compete with Uber, Lyft wants more drivers.
Lyft is looking to bring on more drivers.
The ride-hailing company said Thursday that it's acquired two new companies to focus on expansion. One company, YesGraph, works on customer referral programs. DataScore, the other company, specializes in customer acquisition and retention.
"We feel that together, we can build a growth organization to rapidly help improve transportation in cities across the US," DataScore CEO and co-founder Monica Ohara said in a statement.
Lyft is in a battle to beat out its rival Uber. While Uber is still the behemoth ride-hailing company, Lyft is catching up. Uber has reeled in scandals over the last several months and is currently without a CEO. Lyft has taken advantage of this situation, touting itself as the good guy in the ride-hailing world.
Lyft's growth has taken off this year. It's launched in 160 new cities and is now available in more than 300 across the US. The company said it's seen more rides so far in 2017 than it did in all of 2016.
Getting more drivers is key to the competition between Uber and Lyft. This is because more drivers equal more passengers. At Lyft, DataScore's team will be tasked with helping scale the company's growth by attracting and retaining drivers and passengers. And YesGraph's team will work on expanding Lyft's driver referral program, which gives existing drivers bonuses if they bring on new drivers.
"We've been obsessed with social referrals for years, and we can't wait to help the Lyft driver community," YesGraph founder and CEO Ivan Kirgin said.
Lyft has made five other known acquisitions. Earlier this year, it acquired FinitePaths, which focuses on product growth. And in years prior it bought Leo, Hitch, Rover and Cherry, which covered everything from on-demand car washing to social messaging. 
Tech Culture: From film and television to social media and games, here's your place for the lighter side of tech.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is cool. 
With technology increasingly intertwined with all aspects of business, CNET@Work can help you -- from prosumers to small businesses with fewer than five employees -- get started.
Crowdfunding, a compelling way to raise funds and generate buzz for a new entrepreneurial endeavor, is almost synonymous with Kickstarter.
While Kickstarter is a major platform, several other crowdfunding sites are worth considering before you launch a campaign. There are a few factors to mull over before choosing a platform.
Once you've answered those questions, here's a sample of Kickstarter alternatives to consider.
To launch its reusable paper-and-pen notebook, Rocketbook raised $1 million in its first crowdfunding campaign.
For entrepreneurs interested in a standard, sophisticated crowdfunding platform that offers different features to Kickstarter, Indiegogo is likely the best choice.
"The tradeoffs are like Coke versus Pepsi," said Joe LeMay, cofounder and CEO of Rocketbook, a company that's run multiple successful campaigns on both platforms.
The basic fees are similar: Indiegogo charges a 5 percent platform fee, as well as a processing fee of 3 percent plus a 30 cent third-party credit card fee. On Kickstarter, if your project is successfully funded, you're charged a 5 percent fee, as well as a payment processing fee between 3 percent and 5 percent.
There are some key differences: Unlike Kickstarter, Indiegogo has no application or approval process for starting a campaign. With Kickstarter, a creator only keeps the money raised if the campaign is successful. With Indiegogo, you have two options: "flexible funding" allows you to keep all the money raised regardless of whether your goal is met, while "fixed funding" has specific funding goals that must be met. Indiegogo says the latter is a good choice for projects that require set funding to enter production.
"Kickstarter has its own sort of flavor of community -- it's definitely the larger," LeMay said.
It's hard to make an apples-to-apples comparison between the two platforms in terms of size or success rates, given they don't share all of the same data. Kickstarter, however, does by some metrics appear larger: Since the platform was launched in 2009, Kickstarter backers have pledged a total of $3.2 billion to projects on the site, of which there have been more than 360,000.
By comparison, Indiegogo campaigns have raised more than $1 billion collectively since that platform's launch in 2008. More than 275,000 campaigns have launched on Indiegogo.
Size is certainly an intrinsic benefit when choosing a crowdfunding platform. And Kickstarter's approval process helps creators feel confident their project is ready to launch. That said, LeMay suggested that Indiegogo has a more hands-on culture that can be valuable for project creators.
"The attention we've gotten from the Indiegogo team and the help in running and promoting us has been outstanding," he said. On top of that, he added, "You might find yourself being more of a bigger fish in a smaller pond, and that can be a really great advantage."
Indiegogo offers more crowdfunding tools for marketing and analytics.
Additionally, Indiegogo offers more crowdfunding tools for marketing and analytics. Calling itself the "all-in-one launch platform," Indiegogo offers pre- and post-campaign tools for creators.    
LeMay and Rocketbook co-founder Jake Epstein continue to use both Kickstarter and Indiegogo, in part because the latter offers post-campaign services that can be used in conjunction with the former.
Rocketbook raised around $1 million in its first crowdfunding campaign on Indiegogo to launch its reusable paper-and-pen notebook that comes with an accompanying app for image processing and synchronizing notes in the cloud. The company turned to Kickstarter to fund the second iteration of its product. For its new Everlast notebook, Rocketbook raised more than $1.8 million on Kickstarter and then moved the campaign to Indiegogo's InDemand option, which lets you keep raising funds and building community support after your campaign ends -- even if it was on another platform. Rocketbook has raised nearly another $1 million with InDemand.
After wrapping up its InDemand fundraising, Rocketbook could transition the project to the Indiegogo Marketplace, which promotes products with dedicated marketing services, whether or not they were crowdfunded. Indiegogo also helped Rocketbook connect with the Amazon Launchpad team, giving the fledgling firm another avenue to promote itself.
While creators can use Kickstarter or Indiegogo to raise funds for just about any product, other platforms focus on certain industry verticals or categories of products.
MedStartr, for instance, is a crowdfunding platform for health care-related innovations. With its combination of events, mentors, promotions and other services tailored for the health sector, MedStartr says it has a success rate in health care that is seven times the average for the sector on any other site.
Barnraiser is a platform for healthy, sustainable and artisan food products. The platform boasts a 65 percent success rate by helping small farmers and food producers "connect with millions of people who are seeking a healthy lifestyle."
The platform Patreon is geared toward content creators. Unlike other platforms that facilitate one-time fundraising efforts, Patreon enables content creators to collect regular contributions from their followers in exchange for the regular production of new material. The site promises a "meaningful revenue stream" and "predictable income."
After running two successful Kickstarter campaigns to launch her comic series Ava's Demon, artist Michelle Czajkowski now uses Patreon to keep it going. Her fundraising on both platforms has been so successful she was able to quit her job at DreamWorks and work on Ava's Demon full time.
"It's definitely a good way for small creators to make some sort of a living outside of trying to get published," Czajkowski said of Patreon. "It's the most democratic platform for making money on a web series. People pay to see you make updates on your work... and they can stop paying you whenever they want."
Fig targets a specific category of projects: video games. 
Most crowdfunding campaigns ask supporters to back a specific project once, usually in exchange for a specific reward. Recently, however, a new kind of crowdfunding has emerged, thanks to changes in Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules that allow entrepreneurs to offer supporters an equity stake in their business. The new rules went into effect last year, in accordance with the 2012 Jump-Start Our Business Start-Ups (JOBS) Act.
Indiegogo was a major proponent of this rule change. The platform launched its  equity crowdfunding option in November, in partnership with MicroVentures.
Fig is another one of the few platforms that's started to take advantage of the new rules. Fig targets a specific category of projects: video games. After the Fig team decides to back a video game project, the creator signs a licensing agreement giving Fig a portion of the revenue from the video game once it's published. From the portion it collects, Fig pays dividends to investors who have signed up to back the project on the Fig platform. Fig also keeps a percentage for itself. In the meantime, as video game creators are working on producing their game, they can use the Fig platform to run a traditional crowdfunding campaign with rewards for backers.
Equity crowdfunding is compelling, Fig CEO and co-founder Justin Bailey explained, because it empowers consumers to claim a real stake in video game titles in which they see potential. Bailey and his partners founded Fig after watching high-level support for video game creators on Kickstarter wane over several years.
"A lot of those people who used to give over $100 to Kickstarter campaigns, once they did that, they were done," Bailey said. "Although people may participate at a lower level, a lot of those higher levels had already dried up. We asked, would those people who were donating at those higher levels resume if they had the opportunity to get their money back? And the answer is overwhelmingly yes."
Because Fig is literally invested in the outcome of the projects on its platform, it's more than just a self-service site. "We're very highly curated; people submit pitches to us, and we do our due diligence to find out if they can deliver the quality and features they say they can deliver," Bailey said.
Additionally, unlike Kickstarter, every project is spotlighted on the platform and in the Fig newsletter. Already, Fig's newsletter is larger than Kickstarter's game newsletter (which covers board games as well as video games). With every campaign it runs, Fig accumulates marketing data specific to video games and the people who are willing to back them. That data helps Fig during the commercial launch of projects.
Because of this comprehensive approach, Fig calls itself a "crowd-publisher" rather than a crowdfunding site. It's not just about funding, Bailey explained. "It's about the funding, the development and ultimately the commercial viability of everything on our site."
Former Google engineer James Damore says he feels betrayed by the leadership at his former employer.
The former Google engineer behind a controversial memo on diversity efforts is standing by his views and says the company is trying to smear his reputation.
James Damore, who was fired by the search giant on Monday, defended his views during an interview Wednesday with Bloomberg TV. His 10-page manifesto sparked outrage from Google employees after being posted to an internal network. It argued biology prevents women from being as successful as men in the tech industry and criticized the company as having a "left leaning" bias.
Damore said he initially shared the memo a month ago, but "no one high up ever came to me and said, 'No, don't do this,' even though there were many people who looked at it," Damore told Bloomberg. "It was only after it got viral that upper management started shaming me and eventually firing me."
James Damore says Google is shaming him for speaking out about his views on gender diversity, which have been condemned by executives as advancing stereotypes. Google's CEO is set to talk about the issue at a companywide meeting Thursday.
In his memo, Damore argues that women are underrepresented in tech not as a result of bias and discrimination. Instead, "the distribution of preferences and abilities of men and women differ in part due to biological causes and that these differences may explain why we don't see equal representation of women in tech and leadership."
Damore said that while some Google employees expressed support for him, it's not surprising no one from the executive ranks did so.
"There was a concerted effort among upper management to have a very clear signal that what I did was harmful and wrong and didn't stand for Google," Damore said. "It would be career suicide for any executives or directors to support me."
Google representatives didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
The controversy comes as Silicon Valley companies grapple with how to increase workforce diversity in an industry dominated by white men and permeated with corporate cultures that seem biased against women and female engineers. Google, Facebook, Microsoft and other tech companies now regularly release diversity reports, highlighting low percentages of women and minority employees, with few moving up the management chain.
Damore was fired by Google on Monday -- the same day Google CEO Sundar Pichai told employees that the memo's author violated company rules by circulating the controversial memo. He said it's "not OK" for employees to feel that they can't "safely express their views (especially those with a minority viewpoint)."
Pichai said he believes Damore brought up valid concerns about Google's training and whether the diversity programs it has put in place are sufficiently open to all. But Pichai said the memo crossed a line.
Damore has said he believes his dismissal was illegal and that he would "likely be pursuing legal action." Before his firing, Damore said he submitted a complaint to the National Labor Relations Board charging Google's upper management with "misrepresenting and shaming me in order to silence my complaints."
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.
Say "women in tech" and the phrase automatically conveys the sense of too few women, making less money and wielding less say and sway in shaping the industry. While that's true, gender disparity isn't a numbers story. Instead, it's about what women and men, companies and universities are doing today to solve outdated group think.
Airbnb's "Community Commitment" has the mission of belonging.
A wrench has been thrown into the plans for an upcoming white supremacist rally, dubbed "Unite the Right," in Charlottesville, Virginia.
After Airbnb apparently caught wind of parties being hosted in some of its rentals last week, it quietly begun deactivating the accounts of those members. The home rental site said these users didn't adhere to its "Community Commitment," which has the mission of "belonging."
"Those who are members of the Airbnb community accept people regardless of their race, religion, national origin, ethnicity, disability, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, or age," Airbnb said in an emailed statement. If the company finds out users are "pursuing behavior" antithetical to its Commitment, it will "seek to take appropriate action including, as in this case, removing them from the platform."
Airbnb has banned racist and discriminatory users before. In April, the company banned a host after she refused to rent out her home to an Asian woman. Airbnb has also worked with California's Department of Fair Employment and Housing to test for racial discrimination among hosts and penalize those who discriminate.
As for the case in Charlottesville, Airbnb apparently learned of its rentals being used for parties on a forum for the neo-Nazi website The Daily Stormer, which is a host of the rally. A user, who goes by the name SCnazi, listed some planning logistics 10 days ago. Along with setting up transportation like "Nazi Uber" and the "Hate Van," the issue of lodging came up.
"We've taken over all of the large AirBnBs in a particular area," SCnazi wrote. "We have 80-90 people, and are a mix of various AltRight groups."
As far as freedom of speech goes, The Daily Stormer has the right to hold its rally. But as a private company, Airbnb also has the right to reject certain users that don't comply with its Community Commitment.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
It's Complicated: This is dating in the age of apps. Having fun yet? These stories get to the heart of the matter.
YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki, speaking here at the Google I/O conference in May, responded to a controversial anti-diversity memo. 
Triggered by a troubling question from her daughter, YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki issued a public response to a controversial memo that argued biology prevents women from being as successful as men in the tech industry.
"Mom, is it true that there are biological reasons why there are fewer women in tech and leadership?" Wojcicki's daughter asked after the memo, written by a worker at YouTube parent Google, became public, according to a column penned by Wojcicki and published Tuesday by Fortune.
Wojcicki went on to explain how her daughter echoed a question that, whether asked outright or whispered quietly, has weighed heavily on Wojcicki in her career in tech.
When the memo brought the question to the fore over the weekend, Wojcicki "once again felt that pain, and empathized with the pain it must have caused others. I thought about the women at Google who are now facing a very public discussion about their abilities, sparked by one of their own co-workers.
"I thought about how the gender gap persists in tech despite declining in other STEM fields, how hard we've been working as an industry to reverse that trend, and how this was yet another discouraging signal to young women who aspire to study computer science."
Some are defending the memo on the grounds of free speech, but Wojcicki said companies should take action against employees who "make unlawful statements about co-workers or create hostile work environments."
The memo controversy comes as Silicon Valley companies grapple with how to increase workforce diversity in an industry dominated by white men and permeated with corporate cultures that seem biased against women and female engineers. Google, Facebook, Microsoft and other tech companies now regularly release diversity reports, highlighting low percentages of women and minority employees, with few moving up the management chain.
Wojcicki said she's seen it all firsthand.
"Time and again, I've faced the slights that come with that question," she wrote. "I've had my abilities and commitment to my job questioned. I've been left out of key industry events and social gatherings ... No matter how often this all happened, it still hurt."
Solving for XX: The tech industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter. Here's what they're up to.
Say "women in tech" and the phrase automatically conveys the sense of too few women, making less money and wielding less say and sway in shaping the industry. While that's true, gender disparity isn't a numbers story. Instead, it's about what women and men, companies and universities are doing today to solve outdated group think.
This is what it's like to ride on Cabin, a bus that travels between San Francisco and Los Angeles overnight.
The Hyperloop may be the fastest way to travel between San Francisco and Los Angeles, but it's years away from becoming a reality.
In the meantime, the Cabin sleeper bus is an option for those who don't mind a little extra travel time added to their journey. It's a coach with 24 fully flat sleeper pods that transports passengers overnight between SF and LA. 
Cabin takes eight hours as drivers intentionally use a slower route to minimize bumps along the way. The same trip normally takes about six hours in a car or just over one hour on a plane (delays not included).
The bus has all the mod-cons you would expect, including Wi-Fi and power outlets in each bunk.
If you're anything like me, you have a lot of questions about a sleeper bus. Here's an edited transcript of my chat with Gaetano Crupi, co-founder and president of Cabin.
And if you want to experience what it's like to sleep on Cabin, watch the video above.
There's no shortage of cheap flights between San Francisco and Los Angeles. So why would you take Cabin that costs $115 one-way?
We didn't design the cheapest way to get to Los Angeles from San Francisco. There's a lot of options that are significantly cheaper. We also didn't design the fastest way. We tried to design the most comfortable way where you don't burn any of your day while being transported.
We are basically an Uber from a downtown location to the airport and we're also a hotel night's stay. So if you add those two endpoints of transportation, the night and the flight, we think $115 is actually a very reasonable price.
Why are you comparing Cabin to a hotel rather than a regular bus?
The reason why we don't use [the term] bus is that people don't want to sleep on a bus. And so everything that we've designed talking about a hotel, from the sheets that we use, the amenities, the pillows, the way our ground crew services the bathroom, the way we steam all of the sheets when we put them on the bed, all of that is really for someone to think of this not as a bus but as another form of transportation.
How does the suspension differ from a regular bus?
It has to be tuned appropriately because suspension has to do a lot with weight. We don't have 80 passengers on this vehicle and really heavy seats, so the weight distribution is a little different. It does take some iteration to understand not only the combinations of different suspension providers that can be installed but how can they be tuned in order for the bus to feel as smooth as possible. We're constantly iterating on almost a week-to-week basis on the suspension right now.
Maybe this will take years, but we want you to feel like on an airplane, where you don't feel any bumps of the road and it just feels like being on a cloud.
What about safety?
Our drivers, their only concern is driving. There's an attendant as part of their team who can deal with everything else. So we really concentrate on having the drivers rested, know the route and also have someone as their co-pilot. In terms of the driver selection process, we also are installing eye scanners, so if there is any fatigue or lane-shifting we can correct that.
The way these cabins are designed is based on sleeper berths in trucks so they have been previously designed for safety. We did think about seat belts and realized that seat belts in the prone position are a little tricky, they might actually be unsafer. For buses, what you really want to optimize is not as much the collision, which is relatively rare, it's anything about [getting] the people off the vehicle. Our optimization is people being able to get out of the Cabin as quickly as possible in case of a fire or some type of incident.
Is an autonomous Cabin a possibility?
Autonomous is basically the holy grail of safety but especially for our vehicles we think that is pretty much a long way. But there are a lot of things that autonomous does in terms of alerting, lane-shifting that we can start populating our vehicle with to give our drivers more information. Systems where you brake or you can't change lanes, alerts to make sure that there is no fatigue on the driver's side.
What other routes are possible in the future?
Where we think the value proposition is even more intriguing is when we start thinking of San Francisco-Santa Barbara, San Francisco-Big Sur, LA-Phoenix, LA-Tahoe. Places that aren't highly trafficked from the air.
I know the pain of the Boston-DC corridor even though it has a train and how expensive it is, so I'm really excited to get to New York as a hub.

Apple might be late to the wireless charging landscape, but the iPhone 8 could make up for its tardiness.
We take a look at what "true wireless charging" is and how it's different from what already exists with wireless (but plugged-in) charging pads in coffee shops, burger joints and even furniture. Apple is rumored to introduce wireless charging for the iPhone 8, but it's still unclear which route the company will take in September when it announces its next flagship device. 
Also on the podcast, we talk about a smart city in Italy, as part of CNET's ongoing Road Trip series, and a new development with Apple and Qualcomm's legal battle, now that the US government is involved. 
The 3:59 gives you bite-size news and analysis about the top stories of the day, brought to you by the CNET News team in New York and producer Bryan VanGelder.
Check out the extended shows on YouTube.
The cast of "Seagulls" bare their souls at Scotland's Volcano Theatre during the 70th Edinburgh Fringe Festival.
Broadcasting a big event like the Edinburgh festival on television usually requires lots of cameras, sound rigging and vans full of complicated equipment. But the BBC is doing away with all that in an experimental livestream from the legendary comedy and theatre extravaganza.
The Edinburgh International Festival and Edinburgh Fringe begin today and run throughout August, with an army of comedians, drag queens, poets and performers putting on thousands of shows. It would be impossible to broadcast them all, mainly due to the massive amount of equipment required. So Auntie Beeb's research and development bods have come up with IP Studio, a system that films and broadcasts shows completely over the internet, without having to feed back into a studio. 
The BBC has installed small ultra HD cameras in festival venues that will send live video over the internet to the production team, who can edit, crop and ready the high resolution footage for broadcast, all in real-time. The editing is controlled from an internet browser, which means the editor just pops open their laptop and works anywhere.
The BBC reckons the system, which largely uses open source tools, can be controlled "with just one camera operator, a fixed camera or two, and an editor using a virtual mixing desk".
The IP Studio broadcasts kick off today on the BBC Taster site with Janice Forsyth's show at 2 p.m., followed by live jazz later tonight. Broadcasts will continue through the month.
Tech Culture: From film and television to social media and games, here's your place for the lighter side of tech.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is cool. 
Things are heating up between Apple and Qualcomm. 
A key US agency has officially stepped into the legal battle between Apple and Qualcomm. 
The US International Trade Commission, which has the power to ban products from entering the country, confirmed on Tuesday it will investigate Qualcomm's complain that Apple was illegally using its cellular technology in iPhones powered by modems made by Intel. Qualcomm is seeking to bar all iPhones using Intel modems, which run on the AT&T and T-Mobile networks. 
While there's no specific timing, the ITC said it would set a target date to complete the investigation within 45 days after its start. Qualcomm General Counsel Don Rosenberg warned in July that any decision from the ITC likely wouldn't happen for about 18 months. 
The ITC stepping in is the latest turn of the legal drama that is the Apple-Qualcomm spat, which began when Apple decided it was paying too high a licensing fee for Qualcomm's mobile technology. Apple believes it should be paying a licensing fee based on the value of the modem, while Qualcomm argues it should be based on the value of the phone, considering all of the other technology it's helped developed. 
Going to the ITC is a common tactic when engaging in battles over patents because the prospect of a product ban is often devastating enough to get both sides to the bargaining tables. Tech companies who involve the ITC in their disputes often figure out a resolution before any ban is put into effect. 
It's a common route for Qualcomm, the world's largest provider of mobile chips, which is no stranger to patent battles. The company in July filed its complaint with the ITC, accusing Apple of infringing on six mobile patents. A ban would allow iPhones using its own chips to enter the US. Those models run on Verizon's and Sprint's networks. 
"Qualcomm is pleased with the ITC's decision to investigate Apple's unfair trade practices and the unauthorized importation of products using Qualcomm's patents," said Don Rosenberg, executive vice president and general counsel of Qualcomm. "We look forward to the ITC's expeditious investigation of Apple's ongoing infringement of our intellectual property and the accelerated relief that the Commission can provide."
Intel declined to comment. 
Apple pointed to this prior statement from June: "Qualcomm's illegal business practices are harming Apple and the entire industry. They supply us with a single connectivity component, but for years have been demanding a percentage of the total cost of our products - effectively taxing Apple's innovation."
Apple actually drew the support of companies like Google parent Alphabet, Facebook, Amazon and Microsoft, which said the ban would hurt customers. Intel also criticized the suit as harmful to competition. Qualcomm said the critics of its lawsuit are misdirecting the ITC, and that the lawsuit wasn't about its competition with Intel. 
Updated at 2:35 p.m. PT: To include a response from Apple. 
Does the Mac still matter? Apple execs tell why the MacBook Pro was over four years in the making, and why we should care.
Tech Enabled: CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility.
All the latest Apple news, featuring developments on the iPhone, iPad, Macbooks, OS X and much more.
Former Uber CEO Travis Kalanick will not be returning, reports say.
Uber co-founder and former CEO Travis Kalanick won't be returning to his executive position, according to a report by The Wall Street Journal.
In an email obtained by the Journal, Uber co-founder and chairman Garrett Camp told staff on Monday that "Travis is not returning as CEO" and that the company is "committed to hiring a new world-class CEO to lead Uber." 
Kalanick stepped down in June at the urging of Uber's five main investors. But rumors have been flying over the past week that he's been plotting his return, a la Apple's Steve Jobs.
Problems for Uber started snowballing back in February when former Uber engineer Susan Fowler wrote a blog post titled "Reflecting on One Very, Very Strange Year at Uber." She wrote about sexual harassment, "a game-of-thrones political war raging within the ranks of upper management," and gender bias. 
From there, the scandals followed, including a leaked dashboard video of Kalanick berating an Uber driver, and a high-publicity lawsuit with Waymo, the self-driving car unit of Google parent company Alphabet.
Uber hired former US Attorney General Eric Holder to lead an internal investigation into the accusations in Fowler's blog post, along with other allegations regarding the company's chaotic corporate culture. Holder released the results of that probe in June, suggesting Uber make "changes to senior leadership." He also recommended the board "evaluate the extent to which some of the responsibilities that Mr. Kalanick has historically possessed should be shared or given outright to other members of senior management."
Uber didn't respond to CNET's request for comment. 
First published Aug. 8, 9:02 a.m. PTUpdate, 11:25 a.m.: Adds miscellaneous background information.
The biggest stories in tech include Uber's CEO Travis Kalanick's departure, Snapchat's latest location-aware map and Twitch's exclusive broadcasting deal with Blizzard Entertainment.
Fingerprint scanning helps prevent Kenyans from voting more than once.
Facebook Messenger bots are used for everything from ordering food to reading news to booking flights. In the hands of crisis-mapping platform Ushahidi, they're also monitoring election-related violence.
Tuesday is election day in Kenya, which in a year of critical elections around the globe might make it seem like just another day. But it's not.
Presidential elections in Kenya -- where dynasties face off, tribal allegiances are intense and bribery is rife -- can lead to bloodbaths. Last week, the head of information, communication and technology at Kenya's Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission was found dead after he was kidnapped and tortured.
More violence is expected. 
If it comes, Nairobi-based Ushahidi will be there to document it. The platform was born 10 years ago in the wake of a political, social-economic and humanitarian crisis in Kenya. From 2007 to 2008 in Kenya, up to 1,500 people were killed and hundreds of thousands were displaced from their homes. Since then, Ushahidi has been used not only in Kenya, but across the world, including in the US during last year's presidential election, which sparked 300 reports of violence. 
Ushahidi is the Swahili word for "testimony." When it first launched, Ushahidi relied on people texting and emailing eyewitness accounts of violence so the data could be mapped out for all to see. For this election and for the first time, Kenya's 7 million active Facebook users can report issues they encounter during the voting process through the social network's messaging system. Volunteers will verify the reports before they're plotted on a timeline and map.
Ushahidi is mapping out any reports of voting issues.
The use of Facebook Messenger is just the latest example of the social networking titan's increased role in elections. Facebook's presence in the political process runs the gamut, from the flak it has taken for spreading lies that helped sway the US election to the tools it has shared before the UK and Kenya elections to combat fake news. One of the manifestations of the company's investment in artificial intelligence is Messenger.
"The Messenger bot makes it easy for citizens to answer the multiple questions in a report through the automated dialogue with the bot," Nat Manning, Ushahidi's interim executive director, said in a blog post. "Importantly, the bot includes the ability to easily send and receive text and images and interaction with structured messages."
The bots are equipped to deal with voter suppression, ballot issues and violence, which many Kenyans are nervous about.
Kenyan security forces are quite literally keeping people in line.
I worked as a journalist in Nairobi back in 2009, when the 2007 election violence and its aftermath was still fresh in my colleagues' minds. Some had seen terrible things -- people beaten to death or even burned alive in the streets. Others were already thinking ahead to the next election and planning to take refuge in Uganda.
In 2013, there was thankfully much less violence, Manning said in an interview. However, reports of violence did still come in. A University of Pennsylvania study showed that around 75 percent of people who submitted a report to Ushahidi received a response.
Come 2017, and the fear of violence is again very real. The presidential election is a tight race between current President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. 
Reuters has reported carnage at Nairobi's bus station as people flee the capital for their ethnic heartlands. The New York Times tells of an exodus from the Great Rift Valley, where much of the 2007 violence took place. Nervous Kenyans are stockpiling food, and police have prepared first-aid kits, according to Reuters.
As of Monday evening, no violence had been reported to Ushahidi, Manning said. But developments in technology mean that when the reports do come in, the team will be better equipped to handle them than they were back in 2008.
"The increase in smartphone use certainly changes the entire system," Manning said. "In 2008 reports were predominantly SMS." Now users can submit via a dedicated app, Facebook Messenger, Twitter and embedded webforms.
"Our platform has also come a long way since 2008," he added. "We can sort and filter all the reports now by keyword, geolocation and time."
Data collected by Ushahidi about violence will be given to the police and other authorities in the hope that they may be able to tackle incidents as they arise. Citizens can access the information online at all times through Uchaguzi.or.ke and can sign up to receive alerts based on their own choice of filters.
To place a report via the Facebook Messenger Bot, voters should open Facebook Messenger, search for @uchaguzi2017kenya and submit their report along with their location and any photos.
We taste test the Impossible Burger, a bio-engineered plant burger designed to cook, smell and taste just like meat. So what's the secret sauce?
The thing that makes the Impossible Burger oh so tasty -- and, well, burger-y -- might not be good for you. Soy leghemoglobin, or "heme," is currently under review by the Food and Drug Administration as a potential allergen, the New York Times reports.
The meat-free Impossible Burger, made by startup Impossible Foods, has earned high marks from carnivores and vegans alike. It's sold as a high-end foodie curiosity at restaurants in New York (Momofuku Nishi), LA (Crossroads Kitchen), Las Vegas (Andrea's), various cities in Texas (Hopdoddy) and San Francisco (Jardiniere and Cockscomb). It supposedly has a similar look and taste to the real deal. 
One of the main things that contributes to this is that it "bleeds" like a regular burger. CNET's very own Dara Kerr got to try one for herself at Impossible Foods' lab in Redwood City, California last year. "Heme is identical inside a plant and in the muscle tissue of an animal. It is the taste of blood," Celeste Holz-Schietinger, Impossible Foods' principal scientist told Kerr during her visit. 
But is heme safe to eat? Impossible Foods provides a full ingredient list for the Impossible Burger on its FAQ page. It even dedicates a complete section to the question, "What is the ingredient leghemoglobin (soy)?" 
"FDA believes the arguments presented, individually and collectively, do not establish the safety of soy leghemoglobin for consumption," FDA officials wrote in a memo obtained by the Times, "nor do they point to a general recognition of safety."
Impossible Foods said in a statement Tuesday that the Impossible Burger's "key ingredient" is safe to eat, citing "a panel of food safety and allergy experts at three universities." 
In a followup comment, Impossible Foods said it has asked for corrections and clarification from The New York Times over issues it has with the story. "We are awaiting a response."
The FDA didn't respond to CNET's request for comment. 
First published Aug. 8, 8:21 a.m. PT.Update, 10:25 a.m.: Adds comment from Impossible Foods.

Apple is in the crosshairs of India's telecommunications regulator.
The iPhone maker has been called out for its refusal to enable a Do Not Disturb app developed by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) on its devices, reports Times of India.
The app allows users to share details of "pesky" calls and spam messages with authorities and mobile service providers, who would then take action on the caller or sender.
Launched last June, Google has enabled support for the app on Android devices, TRAI chairman Ram Sewak Sharma said in a statement to the publication, adding that TRAI has been discussing the matter with Apple over the past year.
Frustrated with Apple's refusal to allow the app on its platform, Sharma said the company's actions are "anti-consumer," arguing they strip Apple users of their freedom to decide what to do with their data, and leave them vulnerable to unwanted calls and texts.
India is becoming an increasingly important market for Apple, with more locals using its iPhones than ever before. Plus, Apple isn't one to remain stubborn if it sees reason. In China, another important market for the company, it last month took VPN apps off the shelves from the Chinese App Store, in accordance with local regulations requiring it do so.
Apple was contacted for comment but did not immediately respond. 
Solving for XX: The tech industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
Tech Culture: From film and television to social media and games, here's your place for the lighter side of tech.
A treatise that went viral within Google's ranks blames biology for why women are underrepresented in tech.
Google employees are reacting with outrage to a manifesto written by a senior engineer that criticizes the company's efforts to improve workforce diversity and its "left leaning" bias.
The 10-page treatise, titled "Google's Ideological Echo Chamber," argues that women are underrepresented in tech not as a result of bias and discrimination. Instead, "the distribution of preferences and abilities of men and women differ in part due to biological causes and that these differences may explain why we don't see equal representation of women in tech and leadership."
The document, first reported by Motherboard, reportedly went viral inside Google after being posted on an internal network.
"We need to stop assuming that gender gaps imply sexism," reads the document reprinted by Gizmodo, which called it a "10-page anti-diversity screed."
"Women, on average, have more...Openness directed towards feelings and aesthetics rather than ideas. Women generally also have a stronger interest in people rather than things, relative to men (also interpreted as empathizing vs. systemizing)," the unnamed senior engineer writes. These two differences in part explain why women relatively prefer jobs in social or artistic areas. More men may like coding because it requires systemizing." 
Several Google employees took to Twitter, starting Friday, to criticize the document, its author and assertions such as "women on average are more prone to anxiety" and therefore are less able to thrive in stressful tech and leadership roles. 
Write a doc about how inferior women are, then try to be a hero by offering help to save the *vulnerable* 🤢🤢🤢 Still shaking in anger.
Today's rage-read (at work): doc essentially saying that women are unsuited for tech because they like people, whilst men like things.
The author should be fired by now. Otherwise DOL & the EEOC are going to eat Google's lunch. And everybody sues https://t.co/OigUWmcWUW
The controversy comes as Silicon Valley companies grapple with how to increase workforce diversity in an industry dominated by white men and permeated with corporate cultures that seem biased against women and female engineers, as Uber found after an investigation that ultimately led to the ouster of its CEO Travis Kalanick. Google, Facebook, Microsoft and other tech companies now regularly release diversity reports, highlighting low percentages of women and minority employees, with few moving up the management chain.
Google is also being sued by the US Labor Department, which accuses the search giant of systematically paying its female employees less than it pays men. The company strongly denies that assertion.
The document also calls on the company to "stop alienating conservatives."
"In highly progressive environments, conservatives are a minority that feel like they need to stay in the closet to avoid open hostility," the author claims. "We should empower those with different ideologies to be able to express themselves."
Motherboard didn't identify the document's author, but said it was written by a senior software engineer.
Danielle Brown, Google's recently hired head of diversity, integrity and governance, responded to the document in an internal memo. 
"Diversity and inclusion are a fundamental part of our values and the culture we continue to cultivate. We are unequivocal in our belief that diversity and inclusion are critical to our success as a company," Brown wrote in the memo, published by Motherboard. 
"Many of you have read an internal document shared by someone in our engineering organization, expressing views on the natural abilities and characteristics of different genders, as well as whether one can speak freely of these things at Google," Brown added. "And like many of you, I found that it advanced incorrect assumptions about gender...it's not a viewpoint that I or this company endorses, promotes or encourages."
First published Aug. 6 at 8:42 a.m. PT.
Update, Aug. 7 at 6:22 p.m. PT.  Adds additional comments from 10-page memo and from Google's response.
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.
Say "women in tech" and the phrase automatically conveys the sense of too few women, making less money and wielding less say and sway in shaping the industry. While that's true, gender disparity isn't a numbers story. Instead, it's about what women and men, companies and universities are doing today to solve outdated group think.
The VPN service Hotspot Shield is being accused of violating web traffic policies. 
The free virtual private networking service Hotspot Shield has been accused of violating its own privacy policies by the Center for Democracy & Technology (CDT), a nonprofit advocacy group for consumer privacy rights. 
In a 14-page filing, the CDT has requested that the Federal Trade Commission investigate Hotspot for engaging in "unfair and deceptive trade practices" by interfering with web traffic and redirecting it to partner websites like advertising companies. 
One reason that consumers sign up for VPN services like Hotspot is to shield their browsing habits from internet service providers and other online entities that broker user data, or to access services that ISPs -- or host nations -- otherwise block. But the VPN effectively has access to the same data that it's shielding from the outside web. 
As noted in the filing, Hotspot Shield CEO David Gorodyansky previously stated to the Huffington Post that the company's policy was to "never log or store user data." 
Hotspot Shield could not be reached for comment. However, Gorodyansky told ZDNet that CDT's allegations were "unfounded," and that Hotspot "protect[s] user personally identifiable information from both third parties and from ourselves." 
Read more about this story at ZDNet. 
First published August 8, 11:03 a.m. PT.
Update, 6:14 p.m.: Adds comments from Hotspot CEO Gorodyansky.
Millarworld is behind successful comic books such as "Kingsman," soon to get a second movie.
Netflix's first ever acquisition promises to bring even more comic book heroes to life.
The streaming TV giant has bought Millarworld, a comic book publisher founded by Marvel veteran Mark Millar, Netflix announced Monday. Terms of the transaction were not disclosed.
"This is only the third time in history a major comic book company has been purchased at this level," Millar said in a statement. "I'm so in love with what Netflix is doing and excited by their plans. Netflix is the future and Millarworld couldn't have a better home."
Millarworld publishes popular titles like "Kick-Ass," in which a teenager sets out to become superhero and becomes renowned on the internet; "Kingsman: The Secret Service," a super-spy series in the vein of James Bond; and "Wanted," a tale of an amoral assassin and a cabal of villains who have taken over the planet. All have become major motion pictures, though according to Millar, "'Kingsman' and 'Kick-Ass' have unique Hollywood deals elsewhere and aren't a part of this particular acquisition."
Netflix says it will bring Millar's "character franchises to life through films, series and kids' shows available exclusively to Netflix members globally. Millarworld will also continue to create and publish new stories and character franchises under the Netflix label." Millar promises to use some of his newfound wealth to revitalize his hometown of Coatbridge, Scotland.
Netflix has become a major purveyor of comic-inspired shows and movies already, with numerous series based on Marvel characters, including "Daredevil," "Jessica Jones" and the upcoming "Defenders."
Say goodbye to Marvel, Star Wars and Disney movies on Netflix in 2019 when Disney launches its own streaming service. Can Netflix's Millarworld purchase help fill the hole?