
When NASA scientists think they’ve built something that breaks the laws of physics, do you take them at their word?
Folks have been buzzing about an “impossible” rocket thruster, one that looks like an air blaster you’d buy at Disney World and somehow generates thrust without  propellant to push it forward, since forever. The so-called electromagnetic or EM drive makes headlines annually, but this year is different: an American team working on the drive released a peer-reviewed paper demonstrating that their prototype works, and a Chinese team claims that they’ve tested their own functional model. But physicists still aren’t sure about the results of these clunky copper cone tests, say nothing of their potential to lead to a Star Trek-esque warp drive as media outlets have suggested.
Advertisement

The American team’s fairly simple experiment went as followed: they attached the engine to a weighted metal bar attached to a rotating axle, kind of like tethering it to a weathervane. The main EM drive shell connects to electronics including a radio frequency amplifier, tuned to a specific frequency, causing particles of light called photons to bounce around inside. The whole setup goes into a vacuum, and an optical sensor points right at the drive to see whether the darn thing has moved or not. If the pendulum on the optical sensor moves forward in a certain way when the scientists hit the switch, they’ve measured thrust. The experiment was well-executed, says Ray Sedwick, Professor of Aerospace Engineering at the University of Maryland. “They were very careful setting [it up] and minimizing error,” he told Gizmodo.
The results are strange because moving forward requires some force acting in the opposite direction on some surface, according to Newton’s third law of motion. When you swim, you exert backwards force on the water to push your body forwards. Birds do the same thing with air, and when you walk, you push backwards with your feet. Rockets send propellant out of their exhaust system, and the EM drive... bupkis.
Advertisement

Concerns arise when someone’s experiment breaks a fundamental law of physics. Sedwick personally would feel lot better if the NASA team “had the opportunity to redo the test in a larger vacuum facility where the [EM Drive] wasn’t so close to the wall of the vacuum chamber.” He thought unaccounted-for interactions between the drive and the experimental setup might have contributed to the strange forward-moving behavior.
I also spoke with Eric Davis, Senior Physicist from The Institute of Advanced Studies at Austin, at Sedwick’s recommendation—Davis and Sedwick both sit on the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics’ Nuclear and Future Flight Technical Committee. Davis also pointed me towards George Hathaway, an independent researcher in novel propulsion energy systems from Toronto, Canada. Both had concerns.
“The observations they made did not justify the claimed anomalous thrust amounts they published,” said Hathaway. He felt that the NASA team based their theories on an assumption of what the thrust measurement should look like on their graphs, and that what they observed might not actually have been thrust but instead added heat energy changing the cone’s center of mass.
Davis agreed with Hathaway’s assessment, and had even more problems with the paper’s speculative conclusion. Most science papers end with a discussion section, explaining the results and where they come from. The NASA physicists explained the thrust with some pretty wacky science—basically, by using a less popular interpretation of quantum mechanics, the engine could have pushed itself forward on the vacuum of space itself. Davis thought the researchers had presented garbled physics and didn’t the include important equations such a theory would require. “It’s just on and on nonsense,” he said. Harold White, the paper’s main author, did not respond to my request for a comment.
Sedwick was less harsh on the discussion. “The fact that statements appear in the discussion section should not be viewed with the same authoritative eye as the stuff prior to that,” he said. He was, however, more cautious about the applicability of such a thruster. The EM drive produces around two percent the thrust as the most powerful Hall-effect thrusters available, which scoot orbiting satellites around. The small thrust offered by the EM drive would only be useful for long-haul space missions, ones that would otherwise necessitate enormous amounts of propellant. The EM drive thruster would only require a source of power, like a small nuclear reactor or solar panel.
Sedwick didn’t want to speculate, but the distance at which the mass of propellant becomes so great that a much weaker thruster becomes an attractive alternative would certainly be further out than Mars, distances that would still take a long time to reach. The EM drive would travel pretty slowly, and certainly isn’t a faster-than-light warp drive like another much-blogged-about theoretical system, the Albucierre drive.
Advertisement

As for the Chinese team’s test, the China Academy of Space Technology recently announced their positive results at a press conference, seemingly as a playground-type “yeah? well we built our EM drive, like, forever ago” taunt  to the NASA team. According to IBTimes, the Chinese team’s EM drive is now undergoing zero-gravity testing aboard the Tiangong-2 space station. However, the team behind it hasn’t released test data to back up their claims like NASA has. Davis had only just heard about it when I told him.
Ultimately, the biggest concern Sedwick had was the popular press that surrounded this paper. “People were taking the fact that this peer review paper came out as saying that this technology was valid and the truth and was real. That’s not what the paper says. The paper says ‘hey, we did some experiments and did our best to drive down the uncertainty, and we still have this anomalous thrust that can’t be explained in classical physics,’” he said. “The paper does not say that this is a real, definite thing.”
With 2016 now in the rear view mirror, it’s time to look ahead and see what the coming year has in store. Here are Gizmodo’s most anticipated scientific and technological developments—and backslides—of 2017.
After 12 incredible years, the Cassini-Huygens mission to Saturn will come to a spectacular end. The probe is running out of fuel, and it’ll soon be impossible for mission controllers to make orbital corrections.
To avoid contaminating any of Saturn’s potentially life-bearing moons, Cassini-Huygens will dive into the planet in a final blaze of glory. The space probe has already begun its dramatic, ring-grazing orbits, and in April 2017, it’ll begin the “Grand Finale,” a series of close passes between the planet and its rings. The probe is scheduled to make its fatal kamikaze dive on September 15, 2017.
Advertisement

Now that NASA’s Juno spacecraft is in orbit around Jupiter, we can expect a flood of science to start streaming in. With each orbit, Juno makes a close pass, or perijove, over Jupiter’s cloud tops, so we’re going to see some spectacular images in the coming months.
Armed with its array of instruments, Juno is scheduled to perform infrared and microwave scans to measure the thermal radiation emanating from deep within Jupiter’s atmosphere. By mapping Jupiter’s gravity and magnetic fields, scientists will be able to create a 3D map of the gas giant’s interior structure and enormous magnetic shield. Juno will also observe the composition and circulation of the planet’s deep atmosphere and improve our understanding of the forces that power the planet’s majestic auroras.
Advertisement

In February, the ESA will be launching the exoplanet sniffing satellite, CHEOPS. This will be the first mission dedicated to searching for exoplanets around bright stars already known to host planets. Armed with its ultra-high precision cameras, CHEOPS will allow for in-depth analyses of known celestial objects.
Another important launch to watch out for in 2017 is NASA’s Transiting Exoplanetary Survey Satellite (TESS), which is scheduled to go up in December. The satellite’s four cameras will scan the entire sky, searching for planets outside our Solar System. Incredibly, NASA expects TESS to find over 3,000 exoplanets, ranging from gas giants to small rocky worlds.
2017 is the final year of eligibility Google’s Lunar X Prize, a contest that calls for privately funded spaceflight teams to land robotic spacecraft on the Moon, travel 500 meters, and transmit back high-definition video and images. (The first team to do so will receive $20 million.) Incentives have also been added to encourage some actual science. There are 16 teams registered for the competition, but with only one year left, the clock is now ticking. Hopefully one or more of these teams, such as Germany’s PT Scientists, the United States’ Moon Express, or Japan’s HAKUTO, will get to the Moon done in time. Hi-res video from the lunar surface would be so cool.
Speaking of private ventures into space, the coming year will likely feature ongoing discussions about mining expeditions to the the Moon and asteroids to extract valuable resources. And if all goes according to plan, Blue Origin could start sending people into suborbital space, though we’ll believe it when we see it.
On August 21, 2017, the United States will be treated to a rare total solar eclipse which will traverse the entire width of the continental mainland from Oregon to South Carolina.
It’ll be the first total eclipse visible only in the US since the American Revolution, and the first total solar eclipse to sweep coast-to-coast in 99 years. A total eclipse will be seen from a path over 62 miles (100 km) wide, and will last for two minutes or more. Happily, a partial eclipse will be visible from all of North America, Hawaii and parts of northern South America.
Advertisement

Using the ever-growing Event Horizon Telescope array, astronomers will scan the interior regions of our galaxy. If all goes as planned, we could see the first image ever taken of the Milky Way’s supermassive black hole, known as Sagittarius A*.
With KIC 8462852 under intense astronomical scrutiny, we may finally solve the mystery of this odd, flickering star. Also known as Tabby’s Star, this is the celestial object voted most likely to harbor an alien megastructure, such as a Dyson Sphere. More likely, it’s some kind of unknown celestial phenomenon. With UC Berkeley’s Breakthrough Listen on the case, we’re hoping to solve the mystery in 2017.
And now that China has powered up the world’s largest alien-hunting telescope, our ability to detect signs of an extraterrestrial civilization has never been greater. More realistically, astronomers will use “FAST” (Five-hundred-meter Aperture Spherical Telescope) to detect pulsars and other celestial phenomena.
Next year should be a big year for LIGO, the very first observatory capable of detecting the faint ripples in space-time known as gravitational waves.
Back in September 2015, scientists used LIGO to detect the gravitational waves produced by a pair of colliding black holes, a feat which they accomplished again in December. Now that scientists have an instrument sensitive enough to detect spacetime ripples, LIGO’s next observational run should prove fruitful. Experts predict that LIGO could see at least six similar events in the first half of 2017; possibly even more.
Advertisement

NASA’s Cold Atom Laboratory (CAL) is scheduled to arrive at the International Science Station in June 2017. This compact contraption will be used to study the behavior of ultra-cold quantum gases in microgravity environments, and it could help scientists observe new quantum phenomenon. CAL will also be used to test some of the most fundamental laws of physics. Insights gleaned from its experiments could lead to super-sensitive quantum detectors, and enable the construction of advanced navigational devices.
2016 proved to be a miss for the University of Washington’s ADMX Dark Matter Experiment. This machine is currently on the hunt for axions—hypothetical particles that are an extremely attractive candidate for dark matter. ADMX will be back on the hunt in 2017, sniffing around for an exotic particle that will hopefully shed light on the elusive, invisible stuff that makes up 85 percent of the universe.
Construction of Europe’s Extreme Light Infrastructure (ELI) will be completed in 2017. ELI will be the world’s first international laser research system, enabling scientists to shoot lasers at extreme intensities. Located in three different sites (Czech Republic, Hungary, and Romania), the facilities will allow physicists to play with charged particles under the influence of powerful, focused light. In addition to revealing new physics, ELI could be used in materials research and life sciences.
Without a doubt, the CRISPR gene-editing tool is going to receive a lot of attention in the coming months. First and foremost, there’s that nasty patent battle that still needs to be resolved, and a verdict is expected early in the year. This ongoing battle pits a Harvard/MIT team against their counterparts at UC Berkeley, and the decision could determine how this technology gets used in the coming years—and who gets to have all that licensing money.
However the patent battle shakes out, geneticists will undoubtedly continue using CRISPR to modify all sorts of plants and animals, and to search for new ways to fight diseases such as cancer and HIV.
Advertisement

Genetically modified mosquitoes used to control the spread of viral diseases like Zika and Dengue may or may not be released in the Florida Keys in 2017. Despite resistance, there’s still a chance that local authorities, with the help of government bodies like the FDA, will go through with some limited experiments. Regardless of what happens, we’re expecting this to be a lively debate in the coming months—especially if mosquito-borne diseases appear with increased frequency in susceptible regions.
Sadly, we’ll be hearing a lot about Zika again in 2017, even though it’s apparently no longer a global health emergency. Scientists will undoubtedly learn more about this dreaded virus, both in terms of its damaging effects and how it spreads. On a positive note, we could start to see the results of human clinical trials to test experimental Zika vaccines.
Advertisement

We could hit a rather troublesome milestone in 2017. We’re about to reach the point where more antibiotics will be used on farm animals than humans. This will likely result in increasingly resistant bacteria, making it harder to treat bacterial infections.
In the effort to create artificial life, an international team of researchers is expected to produce the world’s first synthetic yeast, which they’ll use to create new kinds of medicines and biofuels. Armed with this tool, scientists could also build biological computers and sensors to detect contaminants in water.
With El Niño gone, and a weak La Niña now taking its place, we can expect to end our streak of record hot months. This past El Niño tied the 1997-98 El Niño for strongest on record,  and it warmed our planet to unprecedented degrees—with the assistance of human-caused climate change, of course. We’re now in the early stages of La Niña, an oceanic and atmospheric corollary to  El Niño that draws heat back into the ocean rather than pulling it out, and could result in a slight dip in global temperatures.
Advertisement

Climate skeptics may get all excited about this in 2017, but any apparent cooling from La Niña will be temporary. In any case, we can expect to see plenty more signs of a changing climate in 2017, from retreating Arctic sea ice to extreme droughts to record-smashing heat waves.
President-elect Donald Trump will be inaugurated on January 20, 2017, an event that will be followed by Senate hearings for what are clearly some very dubious cabinet appointments. In nominating the likes of climate skeptics Rick Perry and Scott Pruitt, Trump has made it abundantly clear that the environment will be of little concern to the incoming administration. We’ll be watching the ensuing shitstorm as it unfolds in Washington, and reporting on all the ways in which this government will work to undermine science and the environment.
Vera Rubin, one of the most important astronomers of the 20th century, died on December 25th in Princeton, NJ at age 88. She played a seminal role in our understanding of dark matter, and should have been awarded a Nobel Prize in Physics—but never was.
Born in 1928 and raised in Washington DC, Rubin was fascinated with the night sky from an early age. “There was just nothing as interesting in my life as watching the stars every night,” she said in an American Institute of Physics oral interview in 1989. Rubin always knew she’d be an astronomer. She consumed books about space, and chose to attend Vassar College after reading the work of Maria Mitchell, a 19th century  astronomy professor at Vassar and the first American female astronomer. (“Shame on you,” Rubin told her interviewer on finding that he hadn’t heard of Mitchell). Rubin earned her Master’s at Cornell, her Ph.D at Georgetown, and went on to study at the Carnegie Institute in Washington alongside astronomer Kent Ford.
Advertisement

Rubin dealt with a lot of shit as a female astronomer. A science teacher initially told her to stay away from the field, she recalled in an interview. After calling her thesis “sloppy,” one of her Cornell advisers said that since she was pregnant, he could present her work for her at the American Astronomical Society meeting—under his name. “I can go,” she said. Since she was the first female astronomer to use the telescope at the Palomar Observatory near San Diego, there were no women’s bathrooms, so she picked a bathroom and taped a paper cutout of a woman to it. When she applied to Princeton University for graduate school, she was told, “Princeton does not accept women,” according to the Washington Post.
But still, Rubin managed to be a role model and helpful mentor for those who needed help. “I remember in the 1980’s as a young Assistant Professor at Yale, when I needed to obtain some figures for a book I was writing on dark matter, contacting her out of the blue, and receiving warm encouragement, and the figures, a few days later,” wrote Lawrence M. Krauss in a Scientific American guest blog. And with every card stacked against her, she still kicked major ass. She made observations of galaxies now used as for proof for dark matter’s existence.
Advertisement

Rubin didn’t come up with the dark matter idea; Fritz Zwicky coined the term in 1933 as a theory to explain why the Coma Cluster of galaxies didn’t blow apart, according to an American Museum of Natural History profile. Rubin instead provided compelling evidence for its existence. The laws of physics say that stuff in galaxies should spin slower further from the galactic center. Rubin’s observations instead showed that galaxies spun at the same speed throughout, meaning that there must be some mass hidden from our telescopes. “The conclusion is inescapable that non-luminous matter exists beyond the optical galaxy,” she wrote in her 1980 paper. Today, we know that dark matter comprises around four-fifths of the universe’s matter.
Keeping in line with all the other crap she dealt with, Rubin died before she had been awarded the Nobel Prize—which, to be clear, she should definitely have won. Almost any undergrad who’s taken an introductory astrophysics course has seen Rubin’s work to motivate their understanding of dark matter. Zwicky would not have won the prize for his efforts, since he died in 1974. It was Rubin’s work that finally convinced most astronomers of dark matter’s existence. And you can’t argue that her work was too theoretical, since the 2011 Nobel Prize in Physics contains just about the same amount of evidence to support dark energy’s existence.
The Nobel Prize in Physics remains a fraternity. No woman has won the prize since Maria Goeppert Mayer shared it in 1963, and in 1974, the committee literally skipped over Jocelyn Bell Burnell for her efforts: She was the second author on her paper, but her adviser and another colleague received the prize instead. A quick peek at the other Nobel Prizes’ own analysis of women winners is pathetic. And not to be rude, but couldn’t this year’s Nobel Prize discovery, esoteric and at-present without application according to a New York Times report, have waited a year or two?
Of course, as astronomer Katie Mack tweeted, “it’s good that we honor/admire winners of Nobel Prizes. But important to acknowledge that, as any award, it’s a biased list, missing names.”
Today we mourn Vera Rubin, one of the greatest astrophysicists of the 20the century, who put up with with as much garbage as could be handed to her. Hopefully things change, and I’ll let Katie Mack have the final word:

Cheetahs, the fastest mammal in the world, are on the brink of extinction according a study published Monday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. There are only 7,100 cheetahs globally, and their population has declined rapidly since the late 90s. For example, in 1999 there were 1,200 cheetahs in Zimbabwe. Fast forward 16 years, and only 170 cheetahs are left there.
The study, which was led by the Zoological Society of London, Panthera and Wildlife Conservation Society, reported that the cheetah population of Asia had suffered the most. These scientists found “fewer than 50 individuals remaining in one isolated pocket of Iran,” and are now calling for cheetahs to be considered “Endangered” instead of “Vulnerable” on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species.
Advertisement

The cheetah population has declined so rapidly, in part, because they require such a large amount of space for their habitat, “77% of the cheetah’s habitat falls outside of protected areas,” meaning they are extremely vulnerable to “human pressures.” This includes habitat loss due to human development, the illegal trade of cheetah parts and cheetahs as exotic pets, as well as losing their prey due to overhunting by humans.
Director of Panthera’s Cheetah Program, Dr. Kim Young-Overton, said, “The take-away from this pinnacle study is that securing protected areas alone is not enough. We must think bigger, conserving across the mosaic of protected and unprotected landscapes that these far-ranging cats inhabit, if we are to avert the otherwise certain loss of the cheetah forever.”
If cheetahs go extinct, it’s because of humans.
[Panthera]
Correction 12/27/16: An earlier version of this article stated that cheetahs are the fastest animals in the world. The peregrine falcon is in fact the fastest animal; cheetahs are the fastest mammals. The text has been corrected.
Merry Christmas! Heart-related deaths spike right around the holiday season. And a happy New Year!
The spike in heart deaths from the so-called Christmas Holiday Effect had been seen previously by American scientists, and has been attributed to the onset of winter for various reasons. But the new study is based on data from New Zealand, where the Southern Hemisphere summer begins right before the holiday season does. The researchers found that the kiwis, too, suffer from a yuletide spike in cardiac death.
Advertisement

The study reviews New Zealand mortality data on over 700,000 deaths occurring between 1988 and 2013, just under 200,000 of which were heart-related. The team compared deaths in the period surrounding the holiday (December 11–24 and January 8–21) to the December 25-January 7 period, to make sure the effect was truly a Christmastime one and not simply seasonal. They found that 4.2 percent more people die from heart-related issues outside of hospitals in the period around Christmas and New Years than would be expected based on trends. Those who died around the holidays were also a year younger, on average, than those dying during the rest of the year. The scientists published their results in the Journal of the American Heart Association.
The paper offers a few possible explanations for the spike. The lower average age of those who die from heart problems around the holidays implies that some people may simply wait too long to receive care. They might not have access to care around the holidays, or maybe they just don’t want to go to the hospital while they’re celebrating. The other, far sadder reason is “both hastening and postponement of death for reasons associated with the holiday period,” according to the study. That doesn’t mean suicides, since suicide data wasn’t included. But you know, maybe Uncle Ernie wanted to see you one last time before succumbing to his heart troubles. Or maybe Grandma Ethel wanted to make it one more year. Or maybe immediately before 2017 felt like the best time to have a heart attack.
The results should probably be taken with a grain of salt, because they were only statistically significant (typically in medical research, that means there’s less than a 5 percent chance of the effect happening by chance) if the date ranges were set to the specific ones the researchers used. Additionally, the team didn’t observe the Christmas Holiday Effect for those who died in hospitals.
Advertisement

Anyway, I’m just letting you know that Christmas Eve might be a really good time to tell ailing relatives you love them.
In August 2012, Voyager 1 went where no human-made object has gone before: it crossed the “heliopause,” the outermost edge of the Sun’s heliosphere, and entered interstellar space.
Before Voyager 1 left the bubble of territory dominated by the Sun, it collected our very first data on the cold, dark borderlands marking the interstellar boundary. Now, Voyager 2 is making the same journey—passing through the outer layer of our heliosphere, toward all that lies beyond it. But five years later, that journey is shaping up to be remarkably different.
Advertisement

“The [boundary] where Voyager 2 is [leaving the heliosphere] is quite different than for Voyager 1,” Ed Stone, the former director of NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, said in a presentation at the American Geophysical Union Conference last week. “Which makes comparisons and extrapolations rather uncertain.”
Stone is making those comparisons anyway, uncertainties be damned. Having worked on the Voyager 1 mission since 1972, he knows better than most just how precious and unique this data is. As he explained during his talk, the differences between what Voyager 1 saw, and what Voyager 2 is seeing now as it passes through the outer reaches of the heliosphere, offer an unprecedented glimpse into the structure of this bubble of starstuff we call home.
Advertisement

Let’s talk about that bubble. At its center lies our Sun, which beams out streams of high-energy particles, called the solar wind. As it disseminates into the vacuum of space, the solar wind forms something a bit like a planetary atmosphere, only much larger. This is called the heliosphere.
Like Earth’s atmosphere, the stuff inside the heliosphere is separated from the stuff outside—in this case, an interstellar wind made up of different particles left over from long dead stars—by a magnetic field. Roughly speaking, the Sun’s magnetic field bubbles off a region of space 100 astronomical units wide (1 AU being the distance between Earth and the Sun).
But the bubble is not air-tight. Interstellar space and the heliosphere interact, mostly, in a vast and poorly-studied region called the “heliosheath.” It’s this region of space that Voyager 2 is now crossing. As Stone explained in his talk and a follow-up interview, the space probe’s recent data offers new insights into what’s happening there.
When Voyager 1, which is headed northward from the solar equator, crossed the heliosheath between 2004 to 2012, it witnessed a steady increase high-energy particles, called galactic cosmic rays (GCRs). But Voyager 2, which is now passing through the heliosheath to the south, isn’t seeing that. “With Voyager 1 that intensity [of GCRs] doubled as we moved through the last stretch,” Stone said. “With Voyager 2, the intensity is very flat in time.”
Stone suspects the discrepancy has to do with the fact that we’re now at a more active phase in the solar cycle. GCRs are interstellar intruders; they cross our borders in greater numbers when the solar wind is weak. That was probably the case when Voyager 1 was making this journey.
“When Voyager 1 was in heliosheath, there was relatively low [solar] activity,” Stone explained. “Voyager 2 is in heliosheath when lots is happening—there’s a lots of stuff coming from sun.” As a result, we’re now learning just how strong of a barrier our bubble can be.
Advertisement

The fact that our Sun is coming down off a solar maximum may help explain another discrepancy. Voyager 2's data shows that within the heliosheath, the solar wind is getting twisted and diverted “downstream,” forming a long, comet-like tail.
This is something scientists expected to see, based on our theoretical understanding of what happens when the solar wind bumps into the interstellar wind. But Voyager 1 didn’t register changes in  the wind direction. “Voyager 1 was in a stagnation zone,” Stone said. “The wind slowed down, but it didn’t turn. But Voyager 2 is in a different place, and also a different time.”
Advertisement

Voyager 1, at a distance of 137 AU, is headed toward the Ophiuchus constellation in the north, while Voyager 2, 113 AU out from the home star, is speeding toward the Pavo constellation in the south. Stone suspects Voyager 2 will enter interstellar space in a year or two’s time, but nobody’s sure.
“We have an expectation as to when Voyager 2 will cross heliopause, but it’s based on  Voyager 1, and we know that where Voyager 2 is is different,” he said.
But Stone doesn’t mind waiting. “We’re learning how stars interact with what’s outside,” he said. “We had ideas and models, now we have data.”
Advertisement

How long will the Voyager probes keep in touch with our pale blue dot? Both spacecraft are powered by the radioactive decay of plutonium-238, which has a half-life of 88 years. The brutal reality is that each year, the spacecraft have less power to work with than they did the year before. “We’ve already turned off a lot of things, and we’ll have to continue turning things off as time goes on,” Stone said.
But if all goes well, we’ve got a few more decades before either probe winks out in the void. Until that day, the Voyager missions will continue teaching us about our cosmic bubble, and the unfathomable vastness that lies beyond.
For now, the journey continues.
Congressional Committee tweets don’t usually get much attention. But when the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology sent out a link to a Breitbart story claiming a “plunge” in global temperatures, people took notice. The takedowns flew in, from Slate and Bernie Sanders, from plenty of scientists, and most notably from the Weather Channel, which deemed Breitbart’s use of their meteorologist’s face worthy of a point-by-point debunking video.
There is nothing particularly noteworthy about Breitbart screwing up climate science, but the House Science Committee is among the most important scientific oversight bodies in the country. Since Texas Republican Lamar Smith took over its leadership in 2012, the Committee has spiraled down an increasingly anti-science rabbit hole: absurd hearings aimed at debunking consensus on global warming, outright witch hunts using the Committee’s subpoena power to intimidate scientists, and a Republican membership that includes some of the most anti-science lawmakers in the land.
Advertisement

The GOP’s shenanigans get the headlines, but what about the other side of the aisle? What is it like to be a member of Congress and sit on a science committee that doesn’t seem to understand science? What is it like to be an adult in a room full of toddlers? I asked some of the adults.
“I think it’s completely embarrassing,” said Marc Veasey , who represents Texas’s 33rd district, including parts of Dallas and Fort Worth. “You’re talking about something that 99.9 percent—if not 100 percent—of people in the legitimate science community says is a threat….To quote Breitbart over some of the most brilliant people in the world—and those are American scientists—and how they see climate change, I just think it’s a total embarrassment.”
Paul Tonko, who represents a chunk of upstate New York that includes Albany, has also called it embarrassing. “It is frustrating when you have the majority party of a committee pushing junk science and disproven myths to serve a political agenda,” he said. “It’s not just beneath the dignity of the Science Committee or Congress as a whole, it’s inherently dangerous. Science and research seek the truth—they don’t always fit so neatly with agendas.”
Suzanne Bonamici, of Oregon’s 1st District, also called it frustrating “to say the least” that the Committee “is spending time questioning climate researchers and ignoring the broad scientific consensus.” California Rep. Eric Swalwell called it the “Science” Committee in an email, and made sure I noted the air quotes. He said that in Obama’s first term, the Committee helped push forward on climate change and a green economy. “For the last four years, however, being on the Committee has meant defending the progress we’ve made.”
Advertisement

Frustration, embarrassment, a sense of Sisyphean hopelessness—this sounds like a grim gig. And Veasey also said that he doesn’t have much hope for a change in the Science Committee’s direction, because that change would have to come from the chairman. Smith has received hundreds of thousands of dollars in campaign support from the oil and gas industry over the years, and somehow finds himself in even greater climate change denial than ExxonMobil.
And of course, it isn’t just the leadership. The League of Conservation Voters maintains a scorecard of every legislator in Congress: for 2015, the most recent year available, the average of all the Democratic members on the science committee is 92.75 percent (with 100 being a perfect environment-friendly score). On the GOP side of the aisle, the average is just over three percent.
(I reached out to a smattering of GOP members of the Committee to get their take on its recent direction. None of them responded.)
Bill Foster, who represents a district including some suburbs of Chicago, is the only science PhD in all of Congress (“I very often feel lonely,” he said, before encouraging other scientists to run for office). “Since I made the transition from science into politics not so long ago, I’ve become very cognizant of the difference between scientific facts, and political facts,” he said. “Political facts can be established by repeating over and over something that is demonstrably false, then if it comes to be accepted by enough people it becomes a political fact.” Witness the 52 percent of Republicans who currently believe Trump won the popular vote, and you get the idea.
I’m not sure “climate change isn’t happening” has reached that “political fact” level, though Smith and his ilk have done their damndest. Recent polls suggest most Americans do understand the issue, and more and more they believe the government should act aggressively to tackle it.
That those in charge of our government disagree so publicly and strongly now has scientists terrified. “This has a high profile,” Foster said, “because if there is any committee in Congress that should operate on the basis of scientific truth, it ought to be the Science, Space, and Technology committee—so when it goes off the rails, then people notice.”
Advertisement

The odds of the train jumping back on the rails over the next four years appear slim. Policies that came from the Obama White House, like the Clean Power Plan, are obviously on thin ice with a Trump administration, and without any sort of check on Smith and company it is hard to say just how pro-fossil fuel, anti-climate the committee could really get.
In the face of all that, what is a sane member of Congress to do? Elizabeth Esty, who represents Connecticut’s 5th district, was among several Committee members to note that in spite of the disagreements on climate, she has managed to work with GOP leadership on other scientific issues. Rep. Swalwell said he will try and focus on bits of common ground, like the jobs that come with an expanding green economy. Rep. Veasey said his best hope is that some strong conservative voices from outside of Congress might start to make themselves heard by the Party’s upper echelons on climate and related issues.
An ugly and dire scenario, then, but the Democrats all seem to carry at least a glimmer of hope. “It’s certainly frustrating and concerning but I’m an optimist,” Esty said. “I wouldn’t run for this job if I weren’t.”
Advertisement

Correction: An early version of this post misspelled Marc Veasey’s first name. The text has been updated.
Dave Levitan is a science journalist, and author of the book Not A Scientist: How politicians mistake, misrepresent, and utterly mangle science. Find him on Twitter and at his website.
With the historic Rosetta mission now over, the ESA has compiled a four-minute simulation showing the spacecraft’s complete journey as it weaved around Comet 67P/Churyumov–Gerasimenko.
Things get started on July 31st, 2014 as Rosetta began to wind down its 10-year journey to the comet. The probe came to within 60 miles (100 km) on August 6th, and from there, it gradually approached the oddly-shaped comet. Its initial flybys provided the first close-up images of the comet, while allowing mission planners to choose a landing site for the soon-to-be ill-fated Philae lander.

Key stages in the mission include Rosetta’s maneuvers as it prepared to dispatch Philae to the comet’s surface, close flybys in February and March of 2015, and course corrections performed to protect the probe from the comet’s increased activity in August 2015. In the spring of 2016, Rosetta went on another far excursion, followed by a close flyby when its instruments made several critical observations.
Advertisement

Starting in August 2016, the probe began to fly a series of elliptical orbits that brought it progressively closer to the comet. On September 29th, Rosetta was deliberately maneuvered onto a collision course with the giant rock. The probe struck the surface on September 30th in the Ma’at region on the comet’s head, finally ending the historic mission.
The historic Rosetta mission has finally come to an end. Over the past two years, the probe’s many…
Watching the simulation, it’s important to point out that, while Rosetta’s trajectory is accurate, the comet’s rotation is not. The arrow indicates the direction to the sun as the camera viewpoint changes over the course of the simulation.
[ESA]
Sometimes it looks like one thing causes another. Every time you eat ice cream, your nose hurts. Every time you turn on the sink, your pipes clank. Or in this case, HPV vaccines seem to coincide with strange side effects.
That does NOT mean the existence of cause and effect. It means you have a hypothesis (“I think x causes y”), which you need to test in order to rule out all of the other possible factors. But sometimes, it’s hard to convince people that their hypothesis is wrong... especially if scientists do something to validate it.
Advertisement

Some scientists think that a paper published in the November 11 issue of the journal Scientific Reports did exactly that—validate the idea that HPV vaccines can harm us, without running experiments that are actually relevant to what’s going on in the human body. The researchers behind the study in question administered a dose of the HPV vaccine a thousand times higher than the appropriate dose, along with a special toxin so the vaccine would penetrate the blood-brain barrier more easily, and observed brain damage in the mice.
“Basically, this is an utterly useless paper, a waste of precious animals,” blogged David Gorski, a surgical oncologist at the Barbara Ann Karmanos Cancer Institute in Detroit, Michigan, as reported by Science magazine. The man has a point. When you last went in for a vaccine, did the doctor put you on an IV and then feed you poison?
The reason scientists are angry about this study goes beyond wasted research dollars. Prior to its publication, recipients of the HPV vaccine reported strange side effects, from fatigue  to walking difficulties. Media outlets picked up the reports, spawning anti-vaccination movements. Later studies found that the symptoms were equally likely whether patients had been vaccinated or not. Unfortunately, though the vaccine appears to have cut HPV rates, vaccination rates have been falling in Ireland, Denmark and Japan, Science reports.
Advertisement

The scientists behind the mouse study have responded to the blowback, saying this was a first test similar to other types of studies done in mice. But when the public gets concerned that two things correlate, it’s up to the scientists to develop non-biased, realistic experiments that either prove or disprove cause-and-effect.  Shoddy or unrealistic experimental design can bring far more hurt than harm. In the case of the HPV vaccine, that harm is potentially hundreds of thousands of cases of cervical cancer.
[Scientific Reports via Science News]
Of all the potentially apocalyptic technologies scientists have come up with in recent years, the gene drive is easily one of the most terrifying. A gene drive is a tool that allows scientists to use genetic engineering to override natural selection during reproduction. In theory, scientists could use it to alter the genetic makeup of an entire species—or even wipe that species out. It’s not hard to imagine how a slip-up in the lab could lead to things going very, very wrong.
But like most great risks, the gene drive also offers incredible reward. Scientists are, for example, exploring how gene drive might be used to wipe out malaria and kill off Hawaii’s invasive species to save endangered native birds. Its perils may be horrifying, but its promise is limitless. And environmental groups have been campaigning hard to prevent that promise from ever being realized.
Advertisement

This week at the United Nations Convention on Biodiversity in Mexico, world governments rejected calls for a global moratorium on gene drives. Groups such Friends of the Earth and the Council for Responsible Genetics have called gene drive “gene extinction technology,” arguing that scientists “propose to use extinction as a deliberate tool, in direct contradiction to the moral purpose of conservation organizations, which is to protect life on earth.”
At the UN meeting, some countries supported the moratorium, which asked for a halt on all research proposals using gene drive technology. The UN’s final agreement instead called for caution in field-testing the products of synthetic biology and better efforts to assess potential risk.
Some scientists, though, have already begun urging their colleagues to recognize the potential disasters that gene drive technology could precipitate. MIT synthetic biologist Kevin Esvelt, for example, is working to convince both fellow scientists and research journals to publish research plans before studies are begun, allowing a broad community of scientists to pitch in and assess the potential risk. Esvelt and his colleagues were the first to suggest that the gene-editing technology Crispr could be used to turn the theory of a gene drive into reality. But Esvelt and his colleagues were horrified when other scientists put that suggestion to the test by using gene drive to create a yellow fruit fly, and sought to publish the results in a paper that barely discussed the precautions necessary when working with gene drives. (It didn’t help that the researchers chose an apocalyptic title for their fruit fly paper, “The mutagenic chain reaction.”)
Advertisement

A growing cadre of scientists has called for caution and openness when it comes to synthetic biology experiments that might impact the public. Researchers have also undertaken efforts to design new gene drive techniques that can help mitigate concerns by limiting any potential long-term effects. Their fear is not just the remote possibility of a lab-created global disaster, but that some highly-publicized accident might cause public outrage that forces research and progress to stop.
Part of the reason people are freaking out is how fast all of this science has progressed. The last time that the UN’s Convention on Biodiversity met, in 2014, gene drive was still purely theoretical. Since then, it has been successfully tested in yeast, fruit flies and mosquitoes.
Historically, even if scientists accidentally released some kind of horrible mutant man-eating fruit fly into the wild, after a few generations of breeding Mother Nature would eventually kill off those mutant traits. If this man-eating fly mated with a wild fruit fly, natural selection would likely weed out that man-eating gene in favor of a dietary preference that has over time evolved to help the fly best survive its natural habitat. The gene drive, though could, override nature’s emergency brakes and go full-speed ahead filling the world with flesh-eating pests.
“The fast-moving nature of this field is both encouraging and a point of concern,”  the federal National Academies of Sciences said earlier this year in a report assessing the risks of gene drive technology.
The report, like the UN, asked that scientists take heed of “social, environmental, legal, and ethical considerations” to develop the technology responsibly. But it ultimately concluded that the potential benefits are too great to not proceed with “carefully controlled field trials.”
Environmental groups are concerned that scientists may go ahead with field trials before understanding the potential risks of gene drive. Scientists, on the other hand, are concerned that we may never understand the full benefits or risks of gene drive if research were to grind to a halt.
The middle ground, it seems, is greater transparency.
“If we’re going to develop proper safeguards for gene drives or other powerful technologies,” Kevin Esvelt wrote earlier this year in Nature, “we need to fix a greater problem: the closed-door nature of science.”
[Nature]
Saving seaside real estate isn’t the only business benefit of fighting climate change. Scientists think that adhering to the Paris Agreement could be crucial to the success of the commercial fishing industry.
In a study published today in the journal Science, researchers modeled how the size of fish catches relate to warming, by combining data on ocean conditions, ecology, fishing, and population dynamics of 892 fish species. The findings should be unsurprising to anyone aware of the fact that the climate is changing quickly: warming water is bad for marine life.
Advertisement

“There’s a strong relationship between warming and impact on fisheries,” said lead study author William Cheung, the Nippon Foundation-Nereus Program Director of Science at the University of British Columbia. “That’s a global picture.”
Cheung’s previous work has already shown that rising ocean temperatures affect catches. That paper, combined with his latest research, creates a full picture of how the changing climate impacts fishing. The newer model shows that 6.3 degrees Fahrenheit (3.5 degrees Celsius) of warming could lead to a decline in the maximum amount of fish in a catch by about eight percent, while keeping to the Paris Agreement’s 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit (1.5 degrees Celsius) of warming would only see a decrease of 2.5 percent. There are different impacts for different parts of the ocean, though: The Pacific region around the Bay of Bengal, South China Sea or Gulf of Thailand saw the greatest decrease in maximum potential catch size, at around 47 percent. The model predicts increased catch sizes in the Arctic-Pacific as waters warm and fish move north.
That might sound promising, but fishing is of comparatively smaller importance to the economies of many countries closer to the Arctic, like Canada and the United States, said Kathryn Matthews, Deputy Chief Scientist at the ocean conservation advocacy group Oceana. Countries closer to the equator rely more heavily on fish for their food supply, and their economies would be severely impacted by a decrease in fish catches. However, she was happy to point out that northern countries have taken a precautionary approach to managing fishing in the Arctic in order to make sure it happens responsibly.
Advertisement

Some feel that scientists should be more cautious with the results of their models, like Daniel Benetti, Professor in Aquaculture from the University of Miami. Benetti has worked with over 30 different species of fish from embryo to adult in his line of work, and the fish have been resilient to aquaculture’s extreme stresses. But either way, change is happening. “Some species will adapt and thrive, and others will perish,” he said. “It will be a different world.”
Matthews agreed that models must be taken with a grain of salt, but still felt it important to begin acting now to make fisheries more sustainable, since a little can go a long way, she said. Plus, “[models] are all we’re going to have when we’re talking about what’s happening in the future.” And by 2050, there will be 9 billion human mouths to feed, which she thinks will make fish even more important.
Cheung ultimately wants his model to motivate countries to hit the goals set by the Paris accord. “We hope this will provide [further] justification or incentive for countries to have more ambition for global emission mitigation.”
[Science]

You’re going to eat too much this holiday season, and you’re going to gain weight. But when it’s time to drop the fat, your body might be hiding a little secret that doesn’t involve signing up for a gym membership on January 2nd that you won’t ever use.
I’m morally opposed to any and all weight loss tips, but the folks over at the American Chemical Society’s Reactions channel have made a pretty compelling video explaining how shivering can help you burn fat. It’s all thanks to a hormone caused irisin, and how it affects our cells.
Advertisement

Our bodies have two kinds of fat cells: brown fat cells and white fat cells. The white fat cells serve as cushioning and to store energy, while the brown ones make heat and burn calories thanks to their glut of mitochondria, the much-loved powerhouses of the cell. Now apparently, if you take off the ugly Christmas sweater in the cold, your brain tries to manually generate  heat by shivering, causing muscles contractions and irisin production. That irisin turns the squishy white fat cells into the hard-working brown ones as if you were exercising.
The video claims that fifteen minutes of cold burns as many calories as an hour of exercise. You might also get frostbite and die, but hey, you’ll lose weight and who doesn’t want to be skinny, am I right?
[Reactions]
For years, scientists have known that Gliese 710 will come excruciatingly close to our Solar System in about a million years. An updated analysis suggests this star will come considerably closer than we thought, during which time it’s expected to spawn dangerous cometary swarms.
Gliese 710 is currently 64 light-years from Earth, but for all intents and purposes, it’s heading straight for us. A new study published in the journal Astronomy and Physics projects the close encounter will happen about 1.35 million years from now, and that the star will come within 13,365 AU of our sun (where 1 AU is equal to the average distance of the Earth to the sun), or 1.2 trillion miles. At that distance, it would take light 77 days to reach the Earth.
Advertisement

That’s obviously far, but not in cosmological terms. That distance is well within the Solar System’s Oort Cloud—a large bubble of ice and rock that surrounds the sun to a distance as far as 50,000 to 200,000 AU. So while Gliese 710 is sure to avoid a direct hit with any object in the inner Solar System, it’ll likely travel through the Oort Cloud. And with its tremendous gravitational influence (it’s about 60 percent the size of our sun), it’ll perturb the many large rocks currently sitting idle way out there in the outer reaches. This star is poised to send a shower of comets into the inner Solar System, possibly causing a serious impact event with Earth.
For the study, astronomers Filip Berski and Piotr Dybczński from Adam Mickiewicz University in Poland used data collected by the Gaia space observatory. The new calculations show that the minimum distance of the star will be almost five times closer than previous estimates. At that distance, the star will appear as the brightest and fastest object in the night sky.
During its passage, Gliese 710 will spawn observable comet swarms, and about ten new long-period comets each year—and for a period lasting a whopping three to four million years. This star’s influence will be felt on our Solar System for a long, long time. “[This] event [will be] the strongest disrupting encounter in the future and history of the solar system,” conclude the authors in their study.
Advertisement

This is obviously bad news for future civilizations on Earth, but our descendents will hopefully have figured out a way to deflect asteroids and comets by then.
A stellar orange dwarf has a 90% chance of passing through the outer reaches of our solar system no …
As an important aside, Gliese 710 isn’t the only star that’s scheduled to make a visit. As many as 14 nearby stars could come within three light-years over the next few million years, two of which are likely to traverse through the Oort Cloud.
[Astronomy and Physics via Forbes]
Kind of! At least if we’re to take Kurzgesagt’s word for it. Lets do a little recap on how birthrates work.
A few generations ago—in the US and other westernized countries anyway—families had far more children. This was an insurance policy. More kids died young back then, so having more of them ensured some would survive. Medicine improved, as did infrastructure and a whole lot of other things that stave off infant mortality, so birth rates fell as a result.
Advertisement

However, not all countries have experienced this trend at the same time. Iran and Bangladesh are currently stabilizing, while many lower GDP nations are still a little way off. Over time, Kurzgesagt predicts things will even out everywhere and the exponential increase in population will begin to dip. This has been your obligatory piece of uplifting news to round out an unremittingly awful year.
Fascism may be spreading throughout the western world, again, but at least populations will stabilize just in time for automation to make sure humanity’s dwindling numbers will fight over increasingly low-paying jobs with minimal protections. Capitalist oligarchs run businesses with profits higher than many countries. You’re probably being spied on by multiple parties, or having your data tracked as a result of an end-user license agreement you barely remember clicking through. Music and art are no longer viable careers. The internet is overrun by abusive trolls and fundamentalists. But hey, at least the cannibalism we’ll resort to will remain metaphorical.

A scary scan taken at the 22 week mark of a 33-year-old woman’s pregnancy revealed a baby with its feet extending right through the mother’s uterus, and its protective amniotic sac right along with it.
As reported in the New England Journal of Medicine, the 33-year-old mother, who had no idea anything was wrong, was in for a regular checkup when the rupture was detected. Ultrasounds and a subsequent MRI revealed a 1-inch (2.5 cm) rupture of the left uterine wall, and an unusually large herniated amniotic sac containing the baby’s very discernible legs (normally, the baby is fully inside this fluid-filled sac, which contains and protects the fetus in the womb).
Advertisement

Doctors informed the parents of the potential risks. With part of the uterine wall breached, the mother was a risk of having her entire uterus ruptured. A life-threatening condition known as “placenta accreta” was also possible, where blood vessels and other parts of the placenta grow too deeply into the uterine wall, potentially leading to heavy bleeding after birth. The mom was also at risky of having to have a hysterectomy and giving birth to a premature baby (normal pregnancies are around 39-40 weeks).
On Sunday’s episode of Keeping Up with the Kardashians, doctors told Kim that a third pregnancy…
Undaunted, the parents decided to go through with the pregnancy, but with close monitoring. The mother was told that bedrest was not required, and that she could go about her pregnancy as per normal.
The OB/GYN who attended to the case, Dr. Pierre-Emmanuel Bouet from Angers University Hospital in France, said he had never seen a case like this before, telling Live Science the condition is “very rare” and that only 26 similar cases exist in the literature.
Advertisement

This was the mother’s sixth pregnancy, the previous five ending with cesarean sections. Bouet said the areas in which the uterus had scarred after the mother’s previous C-sections were strong, but the regions around it had weakened. The weight of the baby, plus the pressure on the uterus, ultimately led to the rupture.
By week 30 of the pregnancy, the uterine tear had grown to an alarming two inches (5 cm), and the herniated sac had grown so much it enveloped the baby right up to its abdomen. At this point, the doctors decided to schedule a cesarean section, yielding a 3-pound baby boy.
After the delivery, the doctors patched up the rupture, and the sac was repaired. The mother recovered quickly and was discharged from the hospital after just five days. Six months after the birth, the baby is reported as doing fine and well.
[NEJM, Live Science]
With less than two weeks remaining in 2016, we can say with near-certainty that it’s the hottest year on record (the only thing that could pull 12 months of above-average temperatures down now is if our sun suddenly vanished, and in that case we’ve got bigger problems). And if the north pole is any indicator, freak hot weather isn’t going away. In fact, it seems to be getting freakier.
Today—the day after the official start of the northern hemisphere’s winter—temperatures at our planet’s north pole are forecast to rise a staggering 40 to 50 degrees above normal for this time of year, approaching 32 degrees Fahrenheit, better known as the melting point of water.
Santa’s elves must be sweating their pants off up there.
According to the Washington Post’s Capital Weather Gang, the hot weather is being driven primarily by a powerful storm system east of Greenland, which features central pressures comparable to a category 3 hurricane. This storm appears to be colluding with weakened Arctic sea ice, allowing more warm air and moisture to push northward and spill over the north pole.

It’s just the latest indicator that something is seriously off in the Arctic this year. Earlier this month, NOAA released its annual “Arctic Report Card,” and while scientists didn’t say the Arctic failed 2016, they didn’t not say that, either. What they did say is that the Arctic has been having an astonishingly weird year, of shattered monthly temperature records and record-low sea ice cover.
Advertisement

In a stunning example of this year’s strangeness, last month, at a time when the Arctic is supposed to be rapidly gaining sea ice, ice growth actually went backward over a period of 5 days.
Ice cover and air temperatures are closely related, with less ice meaning more heat absorption by the ocean, which prevents air temperatures from dropping and makes it even harder for the arctic to put on additional ice. These sorts of ice-ocean-atmosphere feedbacks are at least part of the reason the Arctic is now having yet another scary hot flash.

If this scenario—of temperatures at the north pole rising above freezing around the holidays—sounds familiar, that’s because it is. The same thing happened at the end of 2015. There’s something fitting about 2016 going out as it came in, with the roof on fire.
Catch you all next year.
[The Washington Post]
Now I’m not a baby, but I can imagine it would be really cool if my parents just knew it was diaper changing time without me crying about it and disturbing everyone within a thirty-mile radius. A team at Ritsumeikan University in Japan gets it—they’re working on a urine-powered diaper sensor that can tell when it’s time for a changing.
The team has been working on the diaper for quite a few years now, with the actual inspiring goal of caring for aging patients suffering from urinary incontinence. Producing a diaper-worthy sensor has been a challenge, however. The scientists first developed a urine sensor too rigid to embed into a diaper. They pushed forward, developing the flexible embeddable battery and sensor they needed... but those batteries contained a chemical potentially unsafe for humans, and their charging times varied. The most recent diaper sensors, published last year in the IEEE Sensors Journal, overcome all of those problems.
The sensor’s most important part is its urine-activated battery. Batteries operate based on the function of two electrodes separated by an electrolyte. While the paper doesn’t explicitly say this, based on all the diagrams, I would assume the urine acts as the electrolyte allowing current to flow between either of the two electrodes. The scientists embedded two flexible electrodes into a disposable diaper for their tests. The battery attaches to a tiny capacitor for storing the generated electricity, and a transmitter which can beam its signal to a receiver up to 16 feet away.
Advertisement

The team tested the battery and those tests worked, but the paper conveniently leaves out where all of the urine came from. Next up, they’ll do some field tests on real people. The paper does point out that the battery generates less than 100 microwatts of power, so it wouldn’t electrocute the poor wearer’s crotch.
There’s plenty of other interesting diaper tech out there. Another Japanese team created their own disposable sensor back in 2014, and Gizmodo covered a similar QR-code based disposable diaper pad that can check for urinary tract infections. But those superdiaps don’t turn the wearer’s entire nether region into a battery.
The diaper inserts aren’t on the market yet, but I will leave you with this  piece of prose from the Ritsumeikan University website about Tanaka Ami, who works with the diapies.
Pretty much everyone keeps their distance if told they will have to work with urine, but her curiosity would simply not allow for that. There are electrolytes within our urine. Realizing this fact, she drew a blueprint for diapers that send a signal when someone has urinated in them. However, even though electricity was generated, it was not even 1/100th of the required amount. With no previous examples to work from, failures were a given. But after hundreds of tests, electricity was stored in the condenser, and a new system for generating power was born.
For the first time a batteryless, wireless, system that could alert caregivers from a distance of wet diapers was developed. And although it took over 5 years, it should only take a little longer to make this a real commercial product. She says that “by solving these daily problems. I feel the world will get a little better.” By the year 2050 one in three Japanese will be over the age of 65. Her[sic] curiosity has illuminated the future of our super aging society.
[Nikkei Technology]
Humans’ relationship with technology is growing ever-more intimate. In a sense, we have already become cyborgs, tethered to our external electronic devices, outsourcing to them our memories, our sense of direction, our socializing, our lives. But, if the past year’s technological advancements are any indication, our relationship with technology is going to get a whole lot closer. Technology could one day soon become regularly integrated with our biology to manage disease and augment human ability. Here were some of the biggest breakthroughs of the past year on the cyborg front.
Machines are not so limited as humans in the kinds of sensations they can detect. And so, the the collective Cyborg Nest sought to use them to imbue humans with a sixth, artificial sense. This month, the collective released North Sense, a small electronic device implanted into the skin to give the wearer a sense of direction. The implant connects the user to Earth’s magnetic field, vibrating whenever facing north. “This was not another step towards us becoming machines, but towards us becoming more human,” co-founder Liviu Babitz told the Creator’s Project. “We are curious and want to sense and understand more than what we could with our natural born senses.” Unlike many such undertakings, however, North Sense is not just a one-off art project. If you, too, would like to augment your natural born senses, for $350, the North Sense implant can be yours.
For people suffering from disease, machines offer great promise of easing their burden. This fall, the Food and Drug Administration approved the first ever “artificial pancreas,” a wireless, out of body device designed to free diabetics from having to constantly adjust insulin levels to keep their blood sugar stable. It’s about the size and shape of a smartphone, and works by wirelessly linking to an insulin pump and glucose monitor, measuring glucose levels every five minutes and then, with the help of some algorithmic data crunching, automatically making adjustments. Other medical devices—like pacemakers, for example—have long been used to help regulate bodily functions. But the artificial pancreas proved that complex bodily functions can safely be managed algorithmically.

Stan Larkin needed a heart transplant, and his wait-time on the transplant list was longer than the time it would take his heart to fail his body. So in December 2014, his heart was removed and he became the first patient in Michigan to be outfitted with the SynCardia Freedom Portable Driver, a 13.5 pound machine that uses compressed air to pump blood through the body. He carried his artificial heart around for a year-and-a-half, until a transplant organ was ready this past May. He even played a game pickup basketball with his bionic heart.
In February, scientists announced that for the first time ever, they 3D-printed an organ, successfully transplanted it into an animal and got it to work. It was a major breakthrough. For years, scientists had struggled with living tissue that was too weak to survive long enough to integrate with the body and fuse with its blood supply. Because of this, many have doubted the feasibility of a future where, when one organ fails, we simply grow or print another. But researchers at Wake Forest Institute for Regenerative Medicine reported they kept a baby-sized ear alive on a mouse for two months.
Nathan Copeland has been paralyzed for over a decade, but when he fist-bumped President Barack Obama at the White House Frontiers Conference this fall, he could feel it. The sensation of feeling came via Copeland’s mind-controlled robotic arm. Last spring, surgeons implanted four tiny microelectrode arrays into the sensory cortex area of Copeland’s brain. His prosthetic arm delivers currents to those electrodes that stimulate his brain to create sensations of touch that feel as if they are coming from his own paralyzed hand. Copeland can control the arm using other chips implanted in a different part of his brain. In essence, the prosthetic and chip implant work in tandem to recreate the body’s natural sensory feedback loop. Copeland’s prosthesis was a big deal—it was the first time that such a technology had worked for an extended period of time, outside of a lab.

Getting inked is the latest trend in wearables. This year, electronic temporary tattoo upstarts were popping up everywhere. There was the temporary tattoo built to warn people when they’ve had too much to drink. The stick-on to measure UV ray exposure. The cardiac monitor. And these really pretty metallic ‘smart’ tattoos from MIT that can remotely control a smartphone. Electronic tattoos haven’t quite become a fashion staple, but one day perhaps we’ll all be caressing our forearm in order to send a text.

Always seeking to get a leg up on the competition, there are few as eager to turn themselves into guinea pigs of technology as professional athletes. Last season, Oakland’s Golden State Warriors found their edge in transcranial direct-current stimulation, donning headphones that deliver pulses of electric current to the brain to improve the brain’s signaling ability, and they hoped, their game. The full extent of tDCS’ impact is debatable, but other teams are already jumping on board. With the Warrior’s track record, it’s likely other teams will soon turn to tech to augment their abilities. Then again, the Warriors did lose the Finals last season.
Pandora is one of Saturn’s many baby moons, far too runty to form a sphere under its own gravity. Instead, this 52-mile across space rock looks more like a fossilized glob of silly putty in closest image ever captured by NASA’s Cassini spacecraft.
Cassini is currently circling Saturn’s poles and skirting just outside the gas giant’s F-ring, in a series of dramatic “ring-grazing” orbits that NASA promised would give us an unprecedented look at some of Saturn’s smallest moons. And the spacecraft is already delivering on that promise. The image above was captured on December 18th, from a distance of just 25,200 miles (40,500 kilometers) from the moon Pandora. At resolution of approximately  787 feet (240 meters) per pixel, Pandora’s scars and craters come alive.

Cassini’s closet view of Pandora pry to the recent flyby was taken in 2005, from a distance of 32,000 miles (52,000 km). But our first fuzzy image of this moon was captured by the Voyager 2 probe, in August 1981. Here it is, in all of its pixelated glory:
Thirty five years later, Pandora doesn’t seem to have changed all that much, although it’s sharper around the edges and perhaps a bit more menacing thanks to the wonders of giffing. This is your tax dollars at work, Earthlings, and it’s as good as it’s going to get until the next mission to Saturn.
[NASA]
Look at this cute little snowman! I bet he won’t even melt and make me cry like the snowman from Jack Frost does.
This tiny fella is a wee three microns tall, around half the height of a red blood cell. Todd Simpson from the Western University Nanofabrication Facility in Ontario, Canada made it from three stacked .9-micron silica spheres, platinum arms and nose, and carved the eyes and mouth using an ion beam.
I wish I had platinum enough to make the arms and a nose for a snowman...
[via the Western University Nanofabrication Facility Tumblr]
Sticking your arm inside a box of mosquitoes to get bit is very probably the most fearless thing a person on this planet can do. It’s also very probably the dumbest thing in the world to do because you’ll end up with over 30 itchy mosquito bites  that’ll make you want to rip the skin off your arm.
Maddie Moate from BBC Earth Unplugged braved the mosquito box to learn more about how these tiny bloodsuckers feed off us. They can spend up to 2-3 minutes sipping on blood, which means by the end of this totally gross experiment they’re fat as hell (they end up growing 2-3 times their own body weight). What’s worse is that they actually poop a bit on your skin so that they have more room for blood. Bastards.

Going to the Moon is officially hip again, thanks in no small part to Google, which is offering $20 million to the first private company that can land on our nearest neighbor, roll around a bit, and beam  images back to Earth. The latest contender for that sweet sweet X-Prize money is a Japanese company, which has just obtained a launch vehicle for the shiny metal cheese grater rover it plans to send to the Moon late next year.
On Tuesday, Google Lunar X-Prize contestant Team HAKUTO, a product of the Japanese startup  ispace Inc, announced it’ll be partnering with the India-based Team Indus to get its lunar rover to the Moon. Team Indus already has a contract to launch its own rover, aboard a rocket developed by the Indian Space Research Organization, in December 2017. For Team HAKUTO, whose rideshare with US-based team Astrobiotic recently fell through, the partnership comes just in the nick of time—the window to secure a launch vehicle to compete for the X-Prize closes at the end of the year.

Also known as “NASCAR on the Moon,” Google’s $30 million Lunar X-Prize seeks to spur private companies to develop technologies for crawling around on, studying, and perhaps even strip-mining Earth’s nearest neighbor. The lion’s share of the prize money, $20 million, will go to the first private company that can land on the Moon, do a 500 meters (1,640 feet) -dash, and send high-definition photos and video  back to Earth.
Advertisement

Another $5 million will be awarded to the second place team, while an additional $5 million of prize money is available to teams that meet “bonus” challenges, which include traveling to the Apollo sites, and discovering water ice. To be competitive, teams must demonstrate that 90 percent of their mission costs are privately funded.
The news that Team Hakuto will be competing for the Lunar X-Prize comes just a few weeks after a German team, PT Scientists, announced it had secured a ride to the Moon next year, so get ready for Audi on the moon (no, seriously). The American company Moon Express will also be throwing down with the blessing of the Federal Aviation Administration, as will Israeli nonprofit SpaceIL.
Time is running out for the rest of the 16 Lunar X-Prize teams to buy their tickets to orbit. But even if there are only four contestants, this should still be quite a spectacle.
Given how badly things are going here on planet Earth, it’s encouraging to see entrepreneurs working tirelessly to get us off this rock. From reusable rockets to Martian manifestos to asteroid mining, 2016 was a near like no other in the commercial space race. Here are the highlights.
Following its first successful landing of an orbital rocket back on solid ground late last year, SpaceX finally landed a rocket on an floating drone ship on April 8th, marking a first in spaceflight history. SpaceX has been trying—and failing, spectacularly—to land rockets on ocean barges for more than a year. It’s all part of Elon Musk’s dream to make spaceflight way more affordable by re-using the rocket’s first stage booster (a dream that space tourism company Blue Origin is also chasing), and also way safer. Because the incoming rocket is less likely to, you know, crash right into a city.
SpaceX went on to have a string of successful drone ship landings last spring. Then, as if to remind everyone that progress doesn’t follow a straight line, it started attempting more difficult landings, and crashed again. That’s probably for the best, seeing as SpaceX is running out of hangar room for landed Falcon 9 rockets.
Humans have talked of settling on Mars for more than half a century, but Musk is the man with the plan. At least, he’s the only tech billionaire who owns a rocket company and also seems keen on setting up a colony on the Red Planet. So when Musk talks about going to Mars, people pay attention.
Advertisement

And boy, did Musk talk Mars in September, when he divulged his vision for a vast cosmic migration at the International Astronautical Congress meeting in Guadalajara, Mexico. The core of Musk’s plan to “make humanity a multi-planetary species” is an “Interplanetary Transport System”—basically, a fully-reusable, super heavy-lift launch vehicle that can carry hundreds of tons of propellant to low-Earth orbit to gas up a spacecraft, which in turn can send hundreds of people to Mars and back, for little more than the median price of a house in the United States.
Whew!

While Musk’s presentation was chock full of sweet rocket renderings and inspiring one-liners—“the risk of fatality will be high” comes to mind—it’s difficult to say how much of this plan will actually materialize. In all likelihood, settling Mars at the scale Musk envisions will require significant public-private partnerships, broad international cooperation, and hundreds of billions, if not trillions, of dollars. The question of who is going to pay for all of the research needed to develop Musk’s ITS, not to mention future Martian habitats and life support systems, is increasingly weighty in light of our incoming administration, which seems more interested in scrapping federal research programs than expanding them.
If humans want to permanently settle other words, we’re going to need to mine resources beyond Earth. With this lofty sentiment—and trillions of dollars worth of platinum—in mind, a handful of billionaire-backed startups have spent the last few years developing  technology for extracting metals and water from nearby asteroids.
Advertisement

Then, in 2016, a new player arrived out of nowhere to take the space mining scene by storm: Luxembourg.
In February, a tiny European nation better known for world-class pastries announced it would be investing in asteroid mining technologies and partnering directly with leading firms like Deep Space Industries and Planetary Resources. In June, Luxembourg doubled down on its commitment to space mining, when it launched a $227 million fund to entice private companies to relocate within its borders. Luxembourg has also promised to draft up a new legal framework for exploiting asteroid resources, which would be the first of its kind in Europe.
Time will tell whether Luxembourg’s gamble on this speculative industry pays off. But as a landlocked nation with few natural resources and plenty of gold in the vaults, the fact that Luxembourg is planting its flag here early is not entirely surprising.
In late September, private space tourism company Blue Origin decided to do something very odd: destroy its famous New Shepard rocket, which had already flown and landed four times. It’s not that Blue Origin had anything against the poor rocket, but it was conducting a launch escape test, wherein the crew capsule separates from the first-stage booster at an altitude of 16,000 feet. (Launch escape systems like this can be used during crewed flights in the event of an emergency.) During the launch escape, the booster itself gets slammed with a lot of off-axis force, the most likely outcome of which is fiery destruction.
At least, that’s what everyone thought. But, in proof that things occasionally turn out better than we expect, the New Shepard rocket didn’t crash and explode in the desert. The booster and the crew capsule made a clean separation, after which both landed softly back on Earth. It the first successful in-flight test of a launch escape system since the 1960s, and an epic sight to behold. It was also the latest sign that Blue Origin may be ready to start flying tourists to suborbital space next year.
Over the summer, Moon Express, a little-known startup founded by billionaire tech entrepreneur Naveen Jain, received Federal Aviation Administration clearance to stick a robotic lander on Earth’s nearest neighbor. By late 2017, Moon Express hopes to land on the Moon, capture photos and video footage, and—if it can travel 500 meters across the surface and beam said images back to Earth—nab itself a $20 million Lunar XPRIZE from Google.
Whether or not Moon Express wins the XPRIZE, the fact that it was granted explicit US government permission to land on a celestial body is a noteworthy first. Currently, there’s no legal framework in the US governing the activities of American companies once they’re on orbit or beyond. Some are hopeful that the feds’ positive decision regarding Moon Express will pave a path for other companies looking to explore and commercialize space, but so far, the FAA hasn’t given any indication that this will be the case. As space lawyer  Joanne Gabrynowicz told Gizmodo, right now, everything is on a case-by-case basis.
Advertisement

Of course, that hasn’t stopped other nations interested in Google’s XPRIZE from devising lunar landing schemes—and it isn’t clear that a lack of explicit federal permission will dissuade other American companies from trying, either. For now, at least, space remains the wild west.
For several years, NASA has partnered with commercial rocket companies to resupply the International Space Station. But paying companies to haul up freeze-dried food is just the beginning of what NASA envisions to be a much broader public-private partnership when it comes to the American space program.
Two leading rocket companies, SpaceX and Boeing, have been awarded commercial crew contracts, and both companies are expected to begin ferrying humans to the ISS by 2018. (Originally, the commercial crew program was set to kick off in 2017, but both companies have fallen behind schedule.) In anticipation of its new space taxis, over the summer NASA began outfitting the station with a new “parking spot” for its private partners. And if Trump’s NASA policy advisors have anything to say about it, more and more ISS-related operations will be turned over to the private sector in the years ahead.
Virgin Galactic was one of the first private space companies to make a name for itself, but in recent years it’s suffered some major setbacks, including a disastrous 2014 flight test that killed one pilot and seriously injured another. So you can imagine the size of Richard Branson’s grin when his dashing new space plane, the VSS Unity, took to the skies over the Mojave desert earlier this month.
The VSS Unity, which was introduced in February, is the latest iteration of Virgin Galactic’s SpaceShipTwo, which will hopefully—one day—ferry well-heeled thrill-seekers to the edge of space and back. December’s flight test marked the space plane’s very first solo glide, following four “captive” flights aboard a carrier plane. According to Virgin Galactic, the plane achieved a maximum speed of about 460 miles per hour during ten minutes of free-flight  at an altitude of 50,000 feet.
Advertisement

But while the plane looks hella cool, and December’s flight test no doubt sat well with Branson and Virgin Galactic’s Abu Dhabi investors, when exactly the first space tours are going to launch is anybody’s guess. According to Virgin Galactic CEO George Whitesides, the answer is soon.
A remotely operated sub has captured stunning images of the Antarctic seafloor, revealing a surprisingly dynamic and colorful world filled with spidery starfish, coconut-shaped sponges, and dandelion-like worms.
It may be stark and barren on the surface, but the seafloor below Antarctica is bursting with life, filled with sponges, sea spiders, urchins, sea cucumbers, and sea stars. This colorful, alien-like seascape was recorded by a Remotely Operated Vehicle (ROV) dispatched by Australian government scientists exploring the seafloor at O’Brien Bay, near Casey research station in East Antarctica.

“These communities live in water that is -1.5 degrees C [29 degrees F] year round and are covered in 1.5 metre thick sea ice for 10 months of the year,” said Australian Antarctic Division biologist Glenn Johnstone in a statement. “Occasionally an iceberg may move around and wipe out an unlucky community, but mostly the sea ice provides protection from the storms that rage above, making it a relatively stable environment in which biodiversity can flourish.”
Advertisement

The researchers are studying the acidity, oxygen, salinity, and temperatures of these waters, and this footage came as a bonus. Sadly, Antarctica may be one of the first places where we’ll get see the detrimental effects of ocean acidification in action.
“Carbon dioxide is more soluble in cold water. Polar waters are acidifying at twice the rate of tropical or temperate regions, so we expect these ecosystems to be among the first impacted from ocean acidification,” said project leader Johnny Stark. “Research shows the pink encrusting algae, known as crustose coralline algae, may decrease in extent in a more acidic future ocean, as it incorporates calcium into its structure, and this becomes harder for organisms to obtain as the acidity of the seawater increases.”
Ocean acidification, which is partly influenced by human activities such as the burning of fossil fuels, could greatly diminish this glorious marine diversity.
A research robot out on a routine test inadvertently stumbled upon a never-before-seen species of…
Fascinatingly, life can also be found clinging to the Antarctic sea ice itself. Back in 2014, researchers with the NSF’s ANDRILL Antarctic drilling program stumbled upon an undiscovered species of sea anemone living upside down on the ice. The ocean in-and-around Antarctica, like so much of the world’s oceans, are still revealing their many secrets.
[Australian Antarctic Division]
The government of Japan has decided to decommission the experimental Monju nuclear reactor, which worked for just 250 days out of its total 22-year lifespan.
Located in Japan’s Fukui Prefecture, the sodium-cooled fast reactor has been mired in controversy since construction began in 1986. The reactor came online in April 1994, but a major fire sparked by a sodium leak forced a shutdown. After a long delay, the plant was restarted in May 2010, but another accident involving dropped machinery shut it down yet again. As of June 2011, the Monju plant has only generated a single hour’s worth of electricity since it was first tested back in the 1990s.
Advertisement

The experimental fast-breeder reactor, once dubbed the “dream reactor,” was designed to produce more plutonium than it consumes, thus minimizing the amount of nuclear waste. It was a good idea in principle, but accidents and design flaws prevented the reactor from achieving full success. The plant, which cost $9 billion to design and build, would have required $4.6 billion in safety upgrades over the next 30 years to make it work again. “We have decided to decommission Monju because restarting it would require significant time and cost,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told the Associated Press.
The government says it will cost $3.2 billion to fully decommission the facility. The spent nuclear fuel will be removed from the reactor in 2022, and the entire structure will be dismantled by 2047.
Unswayed by this sad episode, Japan still plans to develop fast reactors that reprocesses spent fuel and reuse valuable plutonium and uranium.  “We will make full use of the highly valuable knowledge and expertise acquired at Monju as we move forward with fast reactor development...first by concentrating on creating a strategic road map,” said Japan’s Industry minister Hiroshige Seko in the Japan Times.
Advertisement

The decision to dismantle the plant has triggered understandable frustration, both among those who are skeptical of nuclear power following the Fukushima nuclear disaster in 2011, and those who are worried about the associated loss in subsidies and jobs as a result of the closure. Locals are also worried about the dismantling process, citing safety concerns.
[Japan Times, Associated Press via CTV]
Earlier this month, a new study came out suggesting that it’s possible to predict whether a toddler will become a criminal. Based on neurological exams, scientists correlated the brain health of people at age three with whether they went on to commit any crimes as adults. And for those with poor brain health, 80 percent of the time, it turned out that they did.
The study nabbed headlines around the world suggesting that we’d arrived at a “Minority Report” future in which a person could be condemned based on a 45-minute brain test alone. Cue the outrage.
The only trouble is, that’s not actually what the study found.
The headlines in question come to us via the Dunedin Study, a massive research effort that began in New Zealand in the 1970s to follow  1,000 people beginning at birth. Over the past four decades, the study has netted many important findings, among them revelations about why people age differently, what leads to substance abuse and how early childhood experiences shape adult life. In the most recent research, the study’s authors were looking to test the idea that a small percentage of the population accounts for a large percentage of social service recipients, and then figure out whether there might be early identifiers to help pinpoint segments of the population most in need of preventative services.
Advertisement

Researchers dug through decades of health and government records for the study’s 1,000 participants, finding that within the cohort, 80 percent of economic burden was attributable to just 20 percent of its members. That small slice accounted for 81 percent of the group’s criminal convictions, 66 percent of welfare benefits, 78 percent of prescription fillings and 40 percent of those considered obese. Researchers also looked at the results of a pediatric examination each study member had done at age three, back in the 1970s. The examination included a neurological evaluation assessing verbal comprehension, language development, motor skills and social behavior. Poor scores on that test, they found, were a good indication that a person would wind up a member of the “high cost” group. In fact, by looking at those scores, they could guess who would end up in which group about 80 percent of the time.
The end goal, study director Richie Poulton told me earlier this week, is to help health and education providers better target their services at those most in need.
Advertisement

“We have all of this education and preventative programming,” he said. “But so often those services do not get to the people who need them the most.”
But online, this research got boiled down, essentially, to one click-worthy pull quote: “Future criminals revealed at three,” as one headline put it. Poulton said the headlines were “unfortunate,” distracting from the findings with Orwellian fear-mongering.
The researchers were conscious of how their results might be interpreted. In their paper, published in Nature Human Behavior under the much less buzzworthy heading “Childhood forecasting of a small segment of the population with large economic burden,” researchers wrote that they were “aware of the potential for misusing these findings, for stigmatising and stereotyping.” It’s implications, though, suggested the opposite: “There is no merit in blaming a person for economic burden following from childhood disadvantage,” they wrote.
Fake news, in all its varied iterations, is high on the list of our current moment’s trending topics. But it is an issue that has long plagued science. Studies get twisted or simplified to the point of no longer being true, reduced to a headline that each time it’s retweeted or reblogged gets further and further from the truth. Sometimes pure fiction makes its way into the public consciousness as fact. Every year, the British Medical Journal publishes an issue of joke science, but years later, those papers wind up being cited as real. Earlier this year, when I was reporting on the biotech company Oxitec’s quest to release genetically modified, disease-fighting mosquitoes in the Florida Keys, project scientist Derric Nimmo told me he had taken to going door-to-door in the Keys in an attempt to fight rumor with fact. Rumors included one that the modified mosquitoes could make children sterile and another that the company was actually the cause of Zika’s spread.
The reason this matters is that the science that is permitted to progress is the result of not just technological progress, but also politics and ethics. The headlines heralding that Dunedin Study researchers have created an early-warning system for criminals aren’t just wrong—they could impact, say, whether those researchers get precious funding dollars in the future.
Among scientists, the notion that childhood risk factors can be useful predictors of events later in life is controversial. Dunedin Study researchers sought to use their decades of data to weigh in. This new research is another point in the debate, suggesting that certain childhood risk factors could indeed be useful to public health policy-makers in determining who is most in need of preventative services.
Advertisement

“We sought to inform a question that nags at the behavioral and social sciences, and that has strategic consequences for national policy on children: how strong is the connection between childhood risk and future costly life-course outcomes?” the researchers wrote. “Results reported here suggest that the importance of childhood risks for poor adult outcomes has generally been underestimated.”
Some of the findings were in line with what other researchers have suggested. They found that members of the high-cost group had the same four childhood disadvantages: they grew up poor, were mistreated, scored low on IQ tests, and exhibited a lack of self-control. But while those numbers led to a statistically significant prediction when looking at the group as a whole, they didn’t help predict what might happen to a certain individual. That’s where the neurological assessments came in. A simple, 45-minute neurological exam, they found, could be an extremely accurate predictor of whether an individual would heavily rely on social and health services later in life. This could, in theory, help providers target specific individuals from a young age with services to help them stay on the straight and narrow.
Advertisement

“Ameliorating the effects of childhood disadvantage is an important aim,” the researchers wrote, “and achieving this through early-years support for families and children could benefit all members of a society.”
The research of course still needs to be replicated and put through real world tests to see whether identifying such people early on might have a positive effect. In the meantime, though, turning science fact into science fiction benefits no one.

A few weeks ago, the US National Weather Service’s Pacific Tsunami Warning Center (PTWC) released this soothing and terrifying animation of every earthquake  it recorded from January 1, 2001 to December 31, 2015. Here’s my suggested backing track, and here’s how the video’s description says to read the map:
The earthquake hypocenters first appear as flashes then remain as colored circles before shrinking with time so as not to obscure subsequent earthquakes. The size of the circle represents the earthquake magnitude while the color represents its depth within the earth.
The first thing you’ll notice is that most of the quakes occur around the Pacific Ring of Fire, a place where earthquakes and volcanic action are common thanks to the boundaries of the pacific tectonic plate.
There are a few events that really stick out:
That enormous flash over Indonesia is the December 26, 2004 Sumatra earthquake, the third largest earthquake ever recorded, which lead to a chain of tsunamis killing over 230,000 people.
The quake in Japan is the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami, the fourth largest earthquake ever recorded, which killed 15,000 and caused the nuclear meltdown at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant.
But quakes don’t need to be the biggest to be terrible. This last gif shows one of the deadliest earthquakes in history, and it’s not the enormous flash of the February 27, 2010 Chilean earthquake which killed several hundred.
Advertisement

The (still powerful) magnitude 7.0 January 12, 2010 Haiti quake killed at least 100,000:
There’s another important thing that this video makes painfully clear. Check out the central United States, around Texas and Oklahoma:
There are almost no quakes for the first half of the video. But starting around 2007 and speeding up until now, you can see the the region light up with tiny blips.
Those quakes are mostly the result of oil and natural gas operations injecting wastewater deep beneath Oklahoma soil, like the two large quakes that struck the region early this year.
Advertisement

So anyway, thanks for 15 years of death and disaster, planet Earth! Can’t wait to see how we screw you up next.
Animals will go to great lengths to find a mate, but there’s a species of salamander that’s willing to traverse extreme distances over treacherous terrain to find that special amphibian someone.
A new study published in Functional Ecology shows that mole salamanders travel an average of six miles (10 km)—and in some cases as far as nine miles (15 km)—to new breeding sites. At first blush that might not sound so extreme, but when you consider the salamander’s tiny stature and stubby legs, not to mention all those crazy things that can wrong along the way, it’s an impressive feat by any measure.
Advertisement

Heading into the study, the researchers quickly realized that they couldn’t really follow salamanders along their lengthy journey, nor could they place geo-tracking monitors on the animals’ delicate skin. So, the research team from Ohio State University cross-referenced genetic details from salamanders in various Ohio wetlands, while using treadmills to test the stamina of these tiny amphibians.
“The genetic analyses were a way to check and see how far animals might move in reality,” said Rob Denton, the lead author of the study. “To do this, we determined where an animal was from based on shared genetic information between related individuals.” When the researchers found a salamander whose genetics were a better match to populations from area A than area B, they determined how likely it was that the individual travelled from area A to B.
But a probabilistic genetic analysis wasn’t sufficient. The researchers also needed to prove that the salamanders are physically capable of traversing epic distances—which, when you look at them, isn’t so obvious.
Advertisement

“Salamanders need to stay wet all the time, have thin skin, and tails that drag on the ground,” Denton told Gizmodo. “If you saw one hiding under a log, you wouldn’t mistake [it] for an endurance athlete.” He says the journey has to be incredibly intimidating for these tiny creatures, which could get eaten by a crow or raccoon, or simply dry out.
The researchers tested the endurance of two types of mole salamanders—one that reproduces asexually (i.e. through cloning), and one that reproduces in the more traditional manner. Tests on the treadmill showed that sexually-reproducing salamanders walked about four times longer than their asexual counterparts, which corresponded nicely with the genetic analysis.
The researchers recorded the fatigue point when a salamander could no longer “right” itself when placed on its back. The salamanders didn’t get extensive breaks, but the researchers took them off the treadmills every three minutes to keep them moist and to perform the righting response test. Given that some salamanders walked as much as nine miles, that’s pretty damned impressive.
To put things in perspective, an adult human with the endurance of a mole salamander would have to be able to jog for 75 miles (120 km) before becoming too tired to go on—a distance just shy of three complete marathons! “It is truly amazing to watch an animal like a salamander steadfastly walking for multiple hours,” said Denton. “It can also be mind numbing work.”
So, why does the mole salamander have to travel so far to find a mate? Denton says the primary reason is to keep populations of salamanders connected through the exchange of individuals. This prevents too much geographical isolation, which can result in inbreeding and ultimately local extinction.
Advertisement

The new study links locomotor endurance with the actual movement of salamanders in the wild, but important gaps remain. Looking ahead, the researchers would like to know how and why amphibians choose their routes, the length of time it takes them to complete their journeys, and whether different species have different survival rates along the way. Importantly, future studies could be used to inform conservation efforts.
“We know that amphibians need quality wetlands to breed within, but the rest of their lives can be mysterious,” Denton told Gizmodo. “Studies like ours that investigate the fate of those crucial animals that connect populations are important for understanding how to best protect them, even in landscapes that are already highly influenced by humans.”
[Functional Ecology]
Another study came out today reminding us that something you probably assumed wasn’t that healthy probably isn’t that healthy: cured meat. In a word, the study concluded that cured meat and worsening asthma symptoms go hand-in-hand. But like many nutrition studies, this one’s conclusions come with some major caveats, and are already generating controversy.
The researchers looked at 971 subjects who took part in the so-called EGEA study (that’s short for Epidemiological study on the Genetics and Environment of Asthma). This subset of EGEA participants, all of whom experience some degree of asthma, received medical examinations and filled out questionnaires regarding their symptoms. They also received a 118-item food frequency questionnaire, which included items from 46 food groups, and cured meats like “ham,” “dried sausage,” and “sausage.” The participants did follow-up surveys on their asthma conditions five to ten years later.
Advertisement

After collecting and analyzing the data, the researchers found that the odds of worsening asthma symptoms were 76 percent higher for those who ate the most cured meat (more than four servings a week), compared with those who ate the least cured meat (less than one serving a week). The team published its results in the journal that may have the best name in all of science: Thorax.
The whole cured meat is bad thing should sound familiar. Last year, a World Health Organization committee announced that processed meats like bacon and hot dogs cause cancer, and other red meats  like beef and veal might be carcinogenic.
The most recent Thorax study is an observational study, meaning the scientists didn’t actually tell anyone to eat ham, but merely looked at how a group of people changed over time. Lead study author Zhen Li, a PhD Student at the French National Institute of Health and Medical Research,  made sure to point this fact out to me, and how they corrected for other factors that could have worsened the asthma. “We have information about age, sex, education level, or physical activity, and have already taken into account these confounders in our analysis,” she said. “We don’t think that’s a major limitation of this study.”
Advertisement

The team wasn’t sure what caused the worsening symptoms, but one hypothesis is that the nitrites in processed meat could inflame our airways. As far as takeaways from the study, “at the moment, public health strategy [should be] to reduce cured meat intake,” said Li. “Nothing is lost by doing so.”
At least one controversial figure in the nutrition world, Edward Archer, isn’t having it. A former obesity researcher at the University of Alabama, Birmingham and current Chief Science Officer for the health tech startup EnduringFX, Archer believes studies like this one should be thrown out the window, and that the aged practice of food frequency questionnaires should be inadmissible as a research tool. He noted that there are thousands of foods not included in the questionnaire, and essentially anyone who fills it out is doing so based on memory, which is most certainly somewhat wrong.
Archer also took issue with the term “processed”—the French researchers did not use this term, but the press release and past studies have. “What does ‘processed’ mean,” he asked. “Cooking is processing. When your ancestors ripped the skin off the beef, added salt, added spices, it’s all processing.”
I forwarded Archer’s response to Li, who disagreed. “A real scientist would never say that research use FFQ (food frequency questionnaire) data is pseudoscience,” she responded via email. “In FFQs, people are asked to indicate their intakes of some foods (sometimes also food groups) but not with details on commercial brands and or species (e.g. green or red grapes). It would not be possible be include such details in FFQs — people have limited time.”
Li’s paper also points out that nutrition studies have tied many negative health effects to cured meat, including lung problems and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
So which side should you take? I’m not 100 percent sure,  though I’d be lying if I said I will dump cured meat myself. Here are some generic recommendations anyway:
Advertisement

1. If you have asthma, try dumping cured meat. Maybe you’ll get better, maybe you won’t.
2. If you want to do something good for the world, you should probably give up meat regardless, because climate change.
3. I mean, if you eat lots of twinkies and immediately get stomachaches, stop eating twinkies?
4. Try going for a nice jog, there are many cute dogs outside.
5. Nutrition is based on pretty shaky science.
[Thorax]
Over the weekend, our President-elect fingered South Carolina congressman Mick Mulvaney to lead the Office of Management and Budget. If confirmed, Mulvaney will wield a significant amount of power over virtually every federal agency—and that should make anyone who values science very, very uneasy.
At the moment, Donald Trump’s list of presidential appointments looks like Murderer’s Row, if Murderer’s Row was stocked with rabid anti-science zealots instead of men who smacked balls for a living. Climate change denial is practically a prerequisite, and several men who will soon be in charge of the country’s environmental agencies think those agencies should disappear.
Advertisement

Mulvaney’s track record blends in quite nicely: He thinks climate change is a myth, and he has consistently voted against pro-environmental bills. He also voted for a bill that prevented the Environmental Protection Agency from regulating greenhouse gases, and questioned the need for federal funding for Zika research.
There is one key difference between Mulvaney and the rest of Trump’s team of appointments, however. Rather than limiting his damage to one individual agency, Mulvaney gets to defecate on all of them.
The Office of Management and Budget is the largest arm of the executive office of the president, and possesses a correspondingly huge amount of power. It helps develop and execute the federal budget, oversees agency performance and management, and reviews “all significant federal regulations by executive agencies.”
Advertisement

For someone who will soon lord over government funding and the agencies that depend on it, Mulvaney is almost religiously opposed to federal spending. The New York Times notes that he’s totally cool with being part of the “Shutdown Caucus,” because of his “willingness to shut the government down” rather than raise the debt limit. He’s also continuously advocated for cuts to federal spending, and has repeatedly butted heads with his own party on spending issues.
All of this spells bad news for federal agencies and programs in general, but particularly those in the science, health, and environmental realms. Trump and his lackeys have already made clear their opposition to funding entire fields of scientific research—Bob Walker, a senior adviser, even suggested scrapping NASA’s Earth science division. Combine this staggering level of disregard with Mulvaney’s belt-tightening approach to federal spending, and the prospects for government-funded science research appear dimmer by the day.
But some in the scientific community worry that critical regulations, more than anything else, will suffer under Mulvaney. The Union of Concerned Scientists even warned that the appointee was a “dangerous choice.”
“The White House Office of Management and Budget is central to good government—including its role overseeing science-based public health, safety and environmental protections,” Andrew Rosenberg, director of the Center for Science and Democracy at UCS, said in a statement. “[Mulvaney] has backed legislation to change the regulatory process in ways that would give an even stronger influence to industry, increase political interference and undermine science-based decision-making.”
Chief among Rosenberg’s concerns is Mulvaney’s support for bills like the Regulatory Improvement Act of 2015, which would “[create] a commission tasked with eliminating and revising outdated and redundant federal regulations.” Notably, the bill was intent on protecting business interests, and was championed by the National Association of Manufacturers and the National Federation of Independent Businesses, among others.
While slashing “outdated and redundant federal regulations” may sound prudent on the surface, Rosenberg, a former regulator, says it’s often a smokescreen that can be used to block policy measures protecting public health and the environment.
Advertisement

“You can’t overturn the Clean Air Act, so you just mess up the process [by which it’s implemented],” Rosenberg told Gizmodo. He likened it to the battle over reproductive rights: There may not be enough support to overturn Roe v. Wade (yet), but that hasn’t stopped state legislators from inserting procedural roadblocks at every other step of the way.
At the end of the day, Mulvaney’s appointment is yet another signal to the scientific community and those who support it that the next four years are going to be very bumpy. As it turns out, Trump’s nutty climate change denial tweets were only the beginning.
Scientists have concluded that mouthwash kills gonorrhea bacteria—in your mouth, that is. I can’t vouch for your other parts,  but maybe don’t put mouthwash there.
Now you’re thinking the same thing that I did: okay, of course Listerine kills bacteria. Well, Listerine advertising from far back as 1879 said the product cured gonorrhea, according to Live Science. But the scientists behind this most recent study state that no one bothered to test the claim until now. The recent Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report showing an uptick in Americans with STDs, including 400,000 cases of gonorrhea, makes this is an especially good time to look for some bacteria-fighting help.
Advertisement

The team of Australian researchers tried a few tests. First, they added gonorrhea-causing Neisseria gonorrhoeae bacteria to Cool Mint and Total Care Listerine. They spread the mixtures on agar gel—bacteria food—and the Listerine-treated bacteria didn’t grow. Then, the team had 196 men who have sex with men, 58 of whom tested positive for a gonorrhea infection, gargle with the Listerine. Afterwards, the throats of only 52 percent of the infected men tested positive for gonorrhea, while 84 percent of those who slurped a saline solution tested positive. The study, published in the journal Sexually Transmitted Infections today, does not detail whether any kissing followed the swishathon.
Hearing that scientists are only now testing a thing you thought was always true should feel familiar. This past summer, the Associated Press showed that no one had really bothered to test how well another part of the daily dental routine worked: flossing. That story ended the same way this one will: there’s definitely more research to be done.
196 people really isn’t that big of a sample size. The gargle also only seemed effective at killing bacteria on the tonsils, not deeper in the throat, and the researchers didn’t do a long term study to see whether the gonorrhea stayed dead.
Either way, keep using mouthwash, you get me?
[Sexually Transmitted Infections via Live Science]

Each year, tens of thousands of passengers get bumped from their scheduled flights because of overbooking. A new video from TED-Ed explains why companies do it, and why you have a right to be pissed off when it happens.
Airlines aren’t the only companies that overbook. It happens in doctor’s offices, hotels, and any other place where appointments are often missed. As this Ted-Ed lesson from statistician Nina Klietsch makes clear, companies overbook not just to minimize losses and optimize resources—they do it to reap tremendous profits as well.
Advertisement

Klietsch does an excellent job explaining the complicated math behind overbooking, while delving into some of the business ethics as well. As she rightly points out, airline companies are comfortable selling the same seat to two people knowing full well, based on statistical analysis, that customers have a predicable tendency to miss their flights. To the airlines, it’s simply a matter of probabilities.
But at what point does an airline go from being practical to being unethical? And how could these companies possibly calculate  the inconvenience this practice causes to their customers?
The Algerian town of Ain Sefra is known as the Gateway to the Sahara, and it’s not the kind of place that gets associated with winter weather. So imagine the surprise of amateur photographer Karim Bouchetata when he awoke to see his picturesque town and the surrounding sand dunes covered in a blanket of snow. Thankfully for us, he grabbed his camera.
Ain Sefra is located in northwest Algeria about 220 miles (350 km) south of the Mediterranean sea, and right on the northern hub of the Sahara desert. Bouchetata said he was “stunned” to see snow falling in the desert, telling Gizmodo it’s “an exceptionally rare occurrence.” This kind of thing happens about once every 10 years or so.
The last major snowfall—if it can be called that—to hit Ain Sefra was in February 1979 when it snowed for a whopping 30 minutes. Subsequent dustings of snow also appeared in 2005 and 2012. The desert town is located about 1,000 meters above sea level, and is surrounded by the Atlas Mountains.
Bouchetata said the snow looked amazing at it settled onto the bright orange sand dunes, creating a perfect opportunity to take some photos. The snow only lasted for one day, and has since melted away.
All photos courtesy Karim Bouchetata. You can see more of his photographs here.
New research shows that a repeat of 1930s drought conditions would be comparably destructive to US crops, despite modern agricultural techniques. The news gets considerably worse in light of climate change.
A new study published in Nature Plants demonstrates the surprisingly damaging effects of a 1930s-type drought on current  US crops, and the impacts of global warming on agriculture in the years to come. Researchers Michael Glotter and Joshua Elliot from the University of Chicago ran computer simulations to predict the effects of a Dust Bowl-like drought on today’s maize, soy, and wheat crops.
Advertisement

“We expected to find the system much more resilient because 30 percent of production is now irrigated in the United States, and because we’ve abandoned corn production in more severely drought-stricken places such as Oklahoma and west Texas,” noted Elliott in a press release. “But we found the opposite: The system was just as sensitive to drought and heat as it was in the 1930s.”
The Dust Bowl crisis was caused by three distinct droughts that struck in quick succession, in 1930-31, 1933-34, and 1936. Wheat yields declined at a staggering rate during this period, including losses of 32 percent in 1933. The drought caused severe hardship to Americans living in the Great Plains region, eroding land value, kicking up devastating dust storms, and displacing millions of people.
Agricultural practices have changed extensively since the 1930s, but not necessarily with an eye to the future and the potential for changing or more extreme climatic conditions. Crops are now optimized to be bountiful instead of resilient, leaving many staple crops vulnerable to droughts and high temperatures.
Advertisement

By simulating the effects of the 1936 drought on today’s agriculture, Glotter and Elliot observed 40 percent losses in maize and soy yield, and 30 percent declines in wheat—numbers comparable to the Dust Bowl crisis. The predicted harm would be about 50 percent worse than the drought of 2012, which caused nearly $100 billion of damage to the US economy.
“Technology has evolved to make yields as high as possible in normal years,” said Glotter. “But as extreme events become more frequent and severe, we may have to reframe how we breed crops and select for variance and resilience, not just for average yield.”
When the researchers factored in climate change, the situation went from bad to worse. With each degree of temperature increase, yield losses increased by 25 percent. An increase of four degrees above today’s average temperatures (a possible scenario by mid-century) reduced crop yields by as much as—brace yourselves—80 percent over the course of an entire season. And this is exclusive of drought conditions. Even with normal amounts of rainfall, this hotter weather is expected to result in losses as bad as those experienced in the 1930s.
During the 1930s, America's High Plains were ravaged by an 8-year long drought, resulting in…
It’s difficult to know what will happen to US crops in the event of a double-whammy drought and temperature boost, but the word “catastrophe” certainly comes to mind. Given recent predictions that parts of the US could soon experience “megadroughts” lasting for as long as 35 years (yes, you read that correctly), these results should serve as a serious wakeup call.
In addition to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the authors of the new study recommend developing new strains of crops with higher heat tolerance, shifting towards more drought-resistant crops (such as sorghum), and migrating wheat, soy, and maize agriculture to northern US states. These measures will undoubtedly cost a lot of money, but the eventual cost of inaction is practically incalculable.
[Nature Plants]
Beneath eighteen hundred miles of crust and mantle flows a molten iron hell river whose satanic secrets the European Space Agency has unleashed. Cool!
The ESA’s Swarm satellites orbit the Earth and measure its complex magnetic field, which is produced by layers of hot, moving metal. The satellites can pick apart contributions to the Earth’s magnetic field from each layer, including the core, mantle and crust. Their magnetic measurements show a 260 mile (420 kilometer)-wide (nice) piece of liquid core flowing beneath Siberia and Canada and pushing westward at 25 miles (40 km) per year, three times faster than the normal outer-core speeds. It’s also speeding up, because 2016 seems like the perfect year to discover that a molten hell-river is speeding up.
Researchers already knew that the core moved around, said lead study author Phil Livermore from the University of Leeds. However, the satellite results allowed them to look at this specific “jet stream” and how it changes over time through changes in the Earth’s magnetic field. They published their results in Nature Geoscience yesterday.
Advertisement

And what could cause a circle of fire akin to something Dante might write about in The Inferno? Andy Coghlan from New Scientist explains:
Next to the inner core, there are parallel cylinders of swirling molten iron in the outer core running from north to south. Where these swirling cylinders meet the solid core, and squash against it, they act like a pair of rollers, squeezing out additional molten iron sideways to create the jet stream.
No one is quite sure why the stream is speeding up, though if I were a betting man, I would probably throw my chips on “the coming of the dark lord.” But who knows.
[ESA]
As the Cassini spacecraft executes its final daredevil maneuvers, scientists on both sides of the Atlantic are already thinking about the next mission to Saturn. But this time  around, nobody’s talking about studying the gas giant itself. They’re talking about hunting for life in Saturn’s rings.
Two Saturnian moons—Titan, a world of frigid methane seas, and Enceladus, a cratered ball of ice wrapped around a liquid water ocean—are on the shortlist of places in our solar system where alien life might exist. And scientists are determined to find out if it does. That much was clear at last week’s American Geophysical Union conference, where American and European researchers presented proposals for two future spacecraft that would determine if Saturn’s strangest moons are habitable.
Advertisement

On the American side, there’s the Enceladus Life Finder (ELF), a proposed NASA New Frontiers-class spacecraft whose mission is in its name. ELF’s flight plan is simple: ten low-altitude (30 mile/50 km) passes over Enceladus’ south pole, where cracks in the moon’s icy crust spew frozen ocean water into space.
Diving through Enceladus’ south polar geysers, ELF would sample the moon’s ocean water like Cassini has already done, but with fancier instruments. Two state-of-the-art mass spectrometers would search for key indicators of habitability, including hydrogen gas (an energy source). The spacecraft would also hunt for life directly by profiling amino acids and carbon isotopes, which occur in specific patterns when microorganisms are present.
“The biggest hope for ELF is to fully characterize the habitability of Enceladus’ ocean,” Cassini project scientist and ELF co-proposer Linda Spilker said. “I would like to know if the Enceladus ocean can support life, and better yet, to find evidence for that life.”
Advertisement

Enceladus’ subsurface ocean is one of the most Earth-like environments we know of out there. But it’s also possible that a different form of biology—a far stranger one—could have sprung up in Titan’s methane seas. So, why only search for life-as-we-know-it when we can visit both moons on the same trip?
Saturn’s moon Titan is a frigid hellscape by Earth standards, but it’s also one of the most hopeful …
The Explorer of Enceladus and Titan (E2T), a proposed medium-class European Space Agency (ESA) mission, seeks to do exactly that. Similarly to ELF, E2T would fly across of Enceladus’ south polar plume (although only six times), at altitudes of 30 to 90 miles (50 to 150 km), and use two mass spectrometers to profile the seawater for signs of life. E2T would also be equipped with a fancy space camera that could snap gloriously high-res images of Enceladus’ surface, down to resolutions of three feet (one meter) per pixel.
E2T would also visit cloudy Titan, collecting and analyzing air samples samples during 17 passes through the moon’s atmosphere at altitudes ranging from 930 to 560 miles (1500 to 900 km). We already know there’s some “pre-biotic chemistry”—organic reactions that can lead to the formation of RNA and proteins—taking place in Titan’s skies. With E2T, we’d be able see just how close that chemistry has gotten to creating the building blocks of life.
E2T will also take detailed images of Titan’s surface, which features Earth-like rivers and canyons carved by liquid hydrocarbons instead of water.
Giuseppe Mitri, the lead proposer of E2T, believes the time is ripe for a dedicated astrobiology mission to the outer solar system. “There is a great deal of interest in the community right now,” he said, noting that ESA’s new mission to Mars, ExoMars, is also searching for hints of alien life.
Of course, there’s no guarantee that either of these missions will be green-lit, and even they are, we’re still years off from finding our cosmic neighbors. (ELF is seeking funds for a 2025 launch, with an expected arrival at Saturn by 2030, while E2T wouldn’t get off the home rock until 2030 at the earliest.) Both proposals need hundreds of millions of dollars to be realized, and both are competing for funds with a lot of other good ideas, including, potentially, missions to survey Venus, to rendezvous with a Trojan asteroid, and to collect a rock sample from the Moon’s south pole.
Advertisement

Still, if the astrobiology community’s recent thinking is any indicator, at some point in the next decade or two, we’re going to head back to Saturn. And when we do, it’ll be to find aliens.
Remember that next time  you’re feeling down about the human race.
Remotely operated vehicle surveys off the coast of California and Hawaii have produced several observations of a large deep sea ghost shark known as a “pointy-nosed blue chimaera.” The resulting video footage is the first-ever recorded of this elusive species in its natural habitat.
Ghost sharks, or what marine biologists call chimaeras, are a family of unusual fishes whose bodies are stiffened not by bones, but by plates and bone-like bits of cartilage. The animals may be rare, but there are about 38 species of chimaeras around the world. Technically speaking, chimaeras are not sharks, having diverged from a common ancestor some 400 million years ago. These creatures, which are also related to rays, are veritable living fossils, confined to depths as low as 8,500 feet (2,600 meters).
Advertisement

Chimaeras have a haunting appearance to them, with seemingly dead eyes, bird-like fins, and  skin that looks as though it’s armour plated. The males have a retractible penis on their heads, making them weirder still.

Back in 2009, researchers with the Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute (MBARI) captured footage of a ghost shark in the Gulf of California, and it marked the first time this particular type of chimaera was captured on film. The researchers weren’t sure about the exact species, but the specimen did appear similar to two species of ghost sharks spotted elsewhere. The species was originally described from specimens found off New Caledonia in 2002, and is named in honor of artist Ray Troll who was fascinated by these fish.
Advertisement

Seven years after this footage was taken, marine biologist Lonny Lundsten and his colleagues say the fish in the video is likely a pointy-nosed blue chimaera (Hydrolagus trolli)—a fish previously identified only in the southwestern Pacific Ocean. Previous to this observation the fish was only seen near New Zealand and South Africa, marking the first time this chimaera has been spotted in the Northern Hemisphere.
Three different chimaera experts were recruited to help identify the fish. The researchers say it’s possible that the specimen belongs to an entirely new species of ghost shark, but the only way to know will be to capture one and bring it up to the surface for analysis—not an easy task given its size, deep habitat, and the fact that these animals are endangered. For now, we’ll just have to admire this amazing video and hope for more in the future.
[Marine Biodiversity Records]
Correction 12/19: An earlier version on this post claimed that this was the ‘first-ever’ video footage of a ghost shark, while in fact, older video footage of different species of ghost sharks can be found online. This video represents the first known footage of one particular species. The mistake, which was replicated in the headline, has been corrected.

The cast iron skillet: for the untrained, that big greasy thing you wish your roommate would put away, and for the expert, virtually the only pan that really matters.
One source of controversy among skilleteers is how to actually care for the slimy metal hunk. The folks over at the American Chemical Society’s Reactions channel recently produced a video explaining some of the scientifically-best practices.
Advertisement

People like skillets because they can cook food both on the stove top and in the oven. Cast iron skillets also hold heat better than traditional pans, and can even become non-stick if you cook with them long enough, thanks to a little thing called “seasoning.”
Cast iron skillets have lots of tiny surface imperfections that proteins get stuck in. The molecules from cooking fats, like butter or oil, form long chains called polymers, which eventually create a plasticky coating (the seasoning) that seals the holes and slicks up the surface. Caring for the skillet involves keeping the seasoning intact and keeping the iron from rusting.
A few pro-tips from the ACR:
Check out the video for other tips, like how to speed up the seasoning process on a second-hand skillet.
[ACS Reactions]
Scientists learned something crazy about antimatter this morning: it turns out, as far as we can tell, it looks like an exact mirror image of regular matter.
But okay, what does that even mean?
Physics theory says that every particle has an antiparticle, so for each negatively-charged electron there’s a positively charged positron, and for each positively-charged proton there’s a negatively charged antiproton. If an antiparticle meets its anti-partner, the two particles annihilate each other in a burst of energy.
Advertisement

Antiparticles definitely exist. Certain atoms spit out positrons during the natural process of radioactive decay, and the Earth often gets smacked by antiparticles from outside the solar system the form of cosmic rays.
The Antihydrogen Laser Physics Apparatus, or ALPHA experiment at CERN (the lab with the 17-mile-round Large Hadron Collider in Geneva, Switzerland) makes and captures antihydrogen. Antihydrogen is basically the next level of antimatter, a positron orbiting an antiproton, the same way an electron orbits a proton in regular hydrogen. The ALPHA folks captured 14 or so antihydrogen atoms per trial, and blasted them with a laser. The antihydrogen atom absorbed the laser light, then let off a specific colored photon—one of the same particles of light that regular hydrogen atoms would have spit out.
The results, which are published today in the journal Nature, represent the very first time physicists have measured a light spectra for antihydrogen.
Advertisement

According to Tim Tharp, an Assistant Research Professor at Marquette University in Wisconsin who works on ALPHA, the finding is significant. “It’s long been thought that antimatter is an exact reflection of matter, and we are gathering evidence to show that is indeed true,” he told Gizmodo.
Hydrogen still has a whole spectrum of colors that ALPHA scientists would want to compare with anti-hydrogen, says Tharp. But if matter and antimatter really end up looking like exact mirror images, it would add to one of the universe’s biggest mysteries. There’s a lot more regular matter than antimatter, and folks are trying to understand why. (This would be easier to explain if matter and antimatter were less similar.)
If you’re still worried about the whole matter-annihilates-antimatter thing, don’t fret. “The amount of antimatter involved in this experiment and created by the history of mankind is such a small amount that it poses no threat to anyone,” Tharp said. So, you can’t make it into a bomb or a fuel or anything like that.
[Nature]
Scientific progress doesn’t always move in a straight line. In fact, as we’ve seen this year, sometimes things just turn around and move backwards. Take climate change. This past November, the landmark Paris Agreement went into effect, with 195 nations signing on to combat the threat of Earth’s changing environment. And then just four days later, United States voters elected a climate skeptic to the highest office of the land.
Advertisement

Fake news, populism and far-right extremism have made 2016 a year in which scientific progress often feels like it’s eroding.  These were the worst setbacks to science in 2016.
Since Trump announced he was running for office, tweet by tweet he has worked to discredit the scientific establishment. His election to President of the United States heralds a dark future for science in America—and when it comes to certain topics, like climate change, an all-out war.
Trump has called global warming a Chinese hoax, as well as “very expensive bullshit.” Since the election, he has doubled down on that view by building a cabinet of oil tycoons and climate skeptics. He has suggested that vaccines and doctors in general can cause autism. He is considering an insane Silicon Valley libertarian, who wants to deregulate the FDA, to head the FDA. He thinks wind turbines are destroying America’s bald eagle population and sending steel straight “into the atmosphere.” He even went on a bizarre tirade against “environment friendly” lightbulbs, arguing that they can cause cancer in a terrifying oversimplification of inconclusive research.  And that’s not even the half of it. No wonder the scientific community is collectively freaking out.
As attorney general of the oil and gas intensive state of Oklahoma, Scott Pruitt has spent an awful lot of energy fighting the agency that President-elect Trump has tapped him to run. Pruitt hasn’t exactly outright denied climate change, but he has written that the debate on climate change is “far from settled” and bragged on his LinkedIn page that he is “a leading advocate against the EPA’s activist agenda.” Not to mention that Pruitt is leading a coalition of state attorneys general who are suing the EPA over the Clean Power Plan, a signature Obama policy that calls for power plants cut their carbon emissions 30 percent by 2030. Pruitt’s appointment is but one of many signals that Trump’s administration plans to attack President Obama’s environmental legacy—and moreover, that climate change progress in America could grind to a halt.
The vast majority of climate scientists agree that our planet is warming, and that human carbon emissions are to blame. At this point, this is a well-worn fact. But our post-fact times have been kind to climate change skeptics. While it seems Americans are more concerned about the climate than ever, a study earlier this year also found that over a 15-year period, attacks on climate science have actually increased. This has, in turn, emboldened climate change deniers in public office. This year the Republican-dominated House did everything in its power to block climate change initiatives, seeking to cut funding in nearly every budget line item containing the word “climate.” And in one particularly sad moment, the verified House Science Committee Twitter account even tweeted out a Brietbart article chock-full of misinformation about climate science.

Since its birth in the 1990s, the movement against vaccinating children has, for the most part, been largely dismissed as an extreme fringe. Vaccines prevent disease without question, and evidence that they cause autism has been thoroughly debunked. But in recent years, the anti-vaccine movement has spread. Along with it, so have the diseases vaccines are supposed to prevent. Last year saw the first death from measles in the United States in 12 years, as well as a headline-grabbing measles outbreak at Disneyland. This year, anti-vaccine propaganda went mainstream with the documentary “Vaxxed,” which screened to sold-out crowds and even nabbed an endorsement from Robert DeNiro. Most concerning of all, though, President-elect Donald Trump has expressed sympathy for the anti-vaccine movement, suggesting he might become the first anti-vaxxer in the Oval Office. Depressingly, other presidential candidates, from Ben Carson (a medical doctor) to Jill Stein, also pandered to the anti-vaxxer crowd this election cycle.
In July, President Obama signed a GMO labeling law that much of the anti-GMO movement regarded as a sham. The law, which will require labeling on all food packages indicating whether they contains GMO ingredients, is indeed a watered-down version of legislation lawmakers sought to pass in Vermont. Activists were angry that the bill will allow food producers put QR codes or 1-800 numbers on packaging that customers would have to scan or call in order to receive information about GMO ingredients—meaning the information about GMOs will still be somewhat obscured.
Advertisement

But even if the law is toothless,  the fact that it exists is still a victory for the anti-GMO movement, and hence for yet another public backlash against science. After all, most scientists agree that GMOs, which are in upwards of 75 percent of our food, are safe to consume.
A recent Pew Research survey found that a fifth of those under 30 feel not only that non-modified foods are better, but that GM-varieties might lead to health problems, a claim which is not supported by science. Unfortunately, the anti-GMO frenzy has also blinded activists to the potential benefits of GMOs. Take the environmental group Greenpeace, which has worked vigorously to block GMOs designed to reduce vitamin A deficiency in economically impoverished nations.
In both the U.K. and China, researchers were given the go-ahead to edit the genomes of human embryos. In the US, however, two sentences tucked inside a federal spending bill last December effectively banned testing of gene-editing on human embryos. It’s true that the world isn’t quite ready for designer babies. But blocking basic research like this often has unintended consequences. The new law, for example, effectively halted research into a promising genetic engineering technique that could help mothers avoid passing devastating genetic disorders to their children. When it comes to genetic engineering, at least, Congress proved fear trumps progress.
The blood-testing startup Theranos promised something amazing: to make blood tests easier and more affordable by replacing needles with a simple finger prick. Then last fall the Wall Street Journal published an investigation of Theranos that cast doubts on everything. Only 15 of the 240 tests Theranos offered, it alleged, were conducted using the company’s signature technology, and its lab test results were sometimes wrong. This year, after government regulators declared that the blood tests “pose immediate jeopardy to patient health and safety,” the company vowed to fix its problems.
Instead, this fall the company laid off nearly half its staff and announced it was getting out of the blood testing market entirely. Theranos became a cautionary tale of what happens when technologies based on new science don’t get throughly vetted by investors and scientists—and it has made the world a lot more cautious when it comes to believing the next big medical breakthrough.
It should have been a good year for science education. New standards for teaching science across the country meant that even in states like Texas, creationism has been taken off some curriculums and lessons about human-induced climate change have been added. In Portland, the school board went as far as to make it illegal to include climate-denial material in lesson plans.
But in coal-producing West Virginia, the state pushed back, voting to block new science standards because they describe climate change as a human-caused problem. It turns out West Virginia isn’t the only state teaching science badly: a survey this year found 7 percent of teachers attributed recent warming to natural causes (wrong), 22 percent said there is significant disagreement among scientists about climate change (also wrong) and 4 percent avoided the topic altogether. Not to mention, oh yeah, our next Vice President is a guy who has argued that public schools should teach the theory of intelligent design alongside evolution.
Earlier this year, a very Pokémon-esque octopus was discovered in deep waters off the coast of Hawaii. Researchers are learning more about this previously unknown species, and how its fragile reproductive cycle could be threatened by deep-sea mining ventures.
Dubbed “Casper” for its ghostlike appearance, this colorless and nearly translucent species of incirrate octopus (i.e. octopods without fins) was found at a record depth of 2.5 miles (4 km) off Necker Island near Hawaii. In a new report published in Current Biology, a research team led by  Autun Purser of the Helmholtz Centre for Polar and Marine Research describes how deep sea octopods like Casper lay their eggs on the dead stalks of sponges attached to the seafloor.
Advertisement

Regrettably, these stalks are rich in manganese, as well as other increasingly valuable metals used in cell phones and computers.
In March 1968, a Soviet Golf II submarine carrying nuclear ballistic missiles exploded and sank…
Very little is known about deep-sea incirrate octopods, but they are known to protect and brood their eggs until the juveniles hatch. To learn more about these creatures and their strange breeding habits, the researchers studied nearly 30 individuals using a remotely operated vehicle between 2011 and 2016 off the coasts of Hawaii and Peru.
Advertisement

Observations revealed that female octopods likely brood their eggs until they hatch, a process that could take years given how cold it is down there on the seafloor (talk about commitment!). The sponges on which these eggs are laid only grow in areas where there are small, hard nodules or rocky crusts. These outcrops are of interest to mining companies because of the metals they contain, including manganese, copper and nickel.
Deep-sea manganese nodules form similarly to pearls in an oyster, and in a process that takes millions of years. Metals gradually build up in rocky layers onto a small starting seed, such as a shell fragment or even a shark’s tooth. The potato-like nodules contain rings of metal-rich layers, including rare earths—high-tech metals used in the production of cell phones and computers. Most of the land-based sources of rare earth metals have already been discovered, and demand for them is only growing.
Discouragingly, the researchers found that incirrate octopods are abundant in areas where manganese crusts can be found—areas in which deep-sea miners are hoping to extract these metals. “The brooding behavior of the octopods we observed suggests that [the octopods] may...be susceptible to habitat loss following the removal of nodule fields and crusts by commercial exploitation,” conclude the researchers in their study.
Making matters worse, these octopods are long-lived, which means recovery could take a while, and may not even be possible with all the hard seafloor suddenly gone. The loss of one of the deep sea’s largest creatures would be a blow to these delicate ecosystems.  “Octopods are sizable creatures, which eat a lot of other smaller creatures, so if the octopods are removed, the other populations will change in difficult to predict ways,” noted Purser in a press release.
Looking ahead, the researchers will continue to study the nodules in order to evaluate their importance to microbes and animals, such as starfish, crabs, and fish.
[Current Biology]
NASA is working to resolve an increasingly frustrating problem with the Curiosity Rover’s drill, which has stalled, leaving the Martian explorer out of action on the slopes of Mount Sharp for more than two weeks.
On December 1st, scientists at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory learned that the Curiosity Rover failed to execute its latest drilling commands. The rover was scheduled to drill its seventh hole of the year and its sixteenth rock since arriving on Mars in August of 2012. For two weeks after glitching out, Curiosity stayed put while engineers attempt to diagnose and fix the problem. Recently, it has started driving around and making observations again, but drilling remains off-limits.
Curiosity’s drill bores into rocks using a combination of hammering motion and a rotating drill bit. Since early in the mission, an electrical malfunction has caused problems with the hammering mechanism, but drilling has proceeded in spite of that. About a year ago, Curiosity encountered another issue, when the motor that opens a sample processing chamber stalled out.
“That problem was intermittent but has recently gone away,” Curiosity’s project scientist Ashwin Vasavada told reporters at a press conference at the American Geophysical Union meeting last week.
Advertisement

The new problem, Vasavada said, appears to be related to Curiosity’s drill feed, a mechanism that moves the drill up and down. Specifically, it looks like a brake on the drill feed failed to disengage fully on December 1st. “We were able to determine it was the brake that’s most likely the issue,” Vasavada said. “And we were able to get some partial success in moving the drill feed and un-stalling it, if you will.”
While that sounds encouraging, it isn’t yet clear that Curiosity is on the road to recovery. “Just in the last few days, we’ve determined that the problem is recurring,” Vasavada continued. “So we’re in the process of still figuring out how to recover the operation of that drill feed.”
The Curiosity Rover is slowly climbing Mount Sharp, the central peak in Gale Crater, an impact basin that is believed to have harbored a saltwater lake billions of years ago. At regularly-spaced intervals, Curiosity is drilling boreholes to measure mineralogy and organic materials. The rover is currently situated in the Murray formation, a diverse band of mudstones which are proving to change dramatically with elevation, yielding insights into Mars’ past environments and habitability.
“A sedimentary basin such as this is a chemical reactor,” John Grotzinger, another member of Curiosity’s science team, said in a statement. “Elements get rearranged. New minerals form and old ones dissolve. Electrons get redistributed. On Earth, these reactions support life.”
Advertisement

It would be a shame if Curiosity’s latest investigation was cut short due to something as minor as a hyperactive drill brake. But when you’re operating machines beyond their expected lifespans and tens of millions of miles from the nearest mechanic, minor glitches can mean the world.
“Although the rover doesn’t want to be a stick in the mud, it sort of is,” Curiosity deputy project scientist Joy Crisp said.
Correction 12/20: A previous version of this post stated that the Curiosity Rover was staying put while engineers attempt to diagnose the drill problem. While this was true for the first two weeks of December, over the past week the rover has begun driving again. The text has been updated to reflect this.
Biologists working in the Greater Mekong area have identified a staggering 163 new species, including a horned lizard, a rainbow-headed snake dubbed “Ziggy Stardust,” and a newt that looks like a Klingon from Star Trek.
Each year, scientists comb the jungles, swamps, and caves of the Greater Mekong in search of new plants and animals. In 2015, over 160 new species were uncovered, including three mammals, nine amphibians, 11 fish, 14 reptiles, and 126 plants. The animals are described in a report released today by the World Wildlife Federation.
The Mekong—an area of southeast Asia that includes Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, Myanmar, and parts of China— is one of the most diverse regions on the planet. Since 1997, some 2,400 new species have been discovered in the Mekong, with an average of two new species identified every week.
The region is under intense development pressure, threatening the survival of these precious habitats. Poaching for bushmeat has turned into a multi-billion dollar illegal wildlife trade, while collectors pay huge sums of money for the rarest finds.
“Many collectors are willing to pay thousands of dollars or more for the rarest, most unique and most endangered species, often buying them at the region’s illegal wildlife markets, especially in the Golden Triangle region where China, Laos, Thailand and Myanmar meet,” noted Jimmy Borah, Wildlife Programme Manager for WWF-Greater Mekong, in a statement. “To save them, it’s crucial that we improve enforcement against poaching and close illegal wildlife markets as well as the tiger and bear farms that openly flaunt wildlife laws.”
Other discoveries include a rare banana species from Thailand, a tiny frog from Cambodia, and a gecko with pale blue spotted skin and piercing dark eyes that was found hiding among the remote mountains of Laos.
“The Greater Mekong region is a magnet for the world’s conservation scientists because of the incredible diversity of species that continue to be discovered here,” said Borah. “These scientists, the unsung heroes of conservation, know they are racing against time to ensure that these newly discovered species are protected.”
[WWF]
2016 was an insane year across the board, and the world of scientific discovery is no exception. Science saw some serious setbacks this year, but also some major breakthroughs, from the groundbreaking detection of gravitational waves to the discovery of an Earth-sized exoplanet less than five light years away. These, dear readers, are the science stories everybody was talking about in 2016.
It doesn’t get much bigger than a fundamental discovery about the nature of reality, and that’s exactly what physicists at the Laser Interferometer Gravitational Wave Observatory (LIGO) served up this year, when they confirmed the existence of gravitational waves, not once, but twice.
We’re all intuitively familiar with the concept of spacetime, you know, that four-dimensional container you eat, breath, shit, and grow old in. But as it turns out, spacetime is not a rigid box. Rather, it’s a rippling ocean, alive with subatomic waves generated when black holes, neutron stars, and other incredibly massive objects collide. Called gravitational waves, these spacetime ripples were first ‘heard’ by LIGO’s detectors last September, although the discovery was not announced until February. Then in June, LIGO physicists detected gravitational waves again, and now, they’re on the hunt for even more. A new window into the darkest corners of the universe has officially opened.
Advertisement

Of course, we have to give Albert Einstein a lot of credit here—after all, he’s the one who dreamt up gravitational waves, when he penned his theory of general relativity in 1916. I’m not sure what’s more incredible: that every single piece of Einstein’s theory has since been proven right, or that it took scores of physicists a century to verify what a 20-something-year-old could see in his mind’s eye.
Over the past few years, astronomers have spotted thousands of exoplanets, including a handful of rocky, Earth-sized worlds. But all of the potentially-habitable real estate on the interstellar market became way less interesting this year with the discovery of Proxima b—an Earth-sized world orbiting our nearest neighboring star, just 4.3 light years away.
Proxima b, which was detected indirectly via the radial velocity method, is a rocky world orbiting Proxima Centauri at a distance of just 4.7 million miles (7.5 million kilometers), which is ten times closer than Mercury orbits the Sun. Because Proxima Centauri is a cool red dwarf star, this turns out to be the sweet spot where liquid water oceans can form. Proxima b might just be habitable.
Advertisement

Alternately, Proxima b could also be an airless hell-scape, which would admittedly be less exciting. But we may not have to wait long to find out: when the James Webb Space telescope launches in 2018, we’re expecting to get our first glimpse of Proxima b’s atmosphere (if there is one). If that doesn’t settle the matter, well, maybe we’ll just have to send off a fleet of interstellar nano-probes to check Proxima b out.
A little-known virus first identified in Uganda in 1947—Zika—exploded onto the international stage late last year, when the mosquito-borne illness began spreading rapidly throughout Latin America. While most adults who contract Zika experience few or no symptoms, the virus’ spread was accompanied by an unsettling uptick in microcephaly, a rare condition in which babies are born with abnormally small heads. This discovery prompted a flurry of research into possible connections between Zika and developmental defects. And the evidence for a link mounted quickly.
In January, Zika was reported to be found in the placentas of two pregnant women whose babies were born with microcephaly. That same month, Zika was found in the brains of newborns who died shortly after birth. In petri dish experiments published in early March, scientists showed how Zika virus directly targets the cells required for brain development, stunting their growth. Finally, in April, the CDC confirmed what many researchers already strongly suspected: Zika does indeed cause microcephaly, as well as a variety of other severe fetal brain defects.
There’s nothing like a terrifying epidemic to accelerate the pace of scientific research. Let’s just hope the momentum to understand Zika virus doesn’t wane now that its status as an international threat has been lifted.
CRISPR, the revolutionary gene-editing tool that promises to cure illnesses and solve environmental calamities, took a major step forward this year when a team of Chinese scientists used it to treat a human patient for the very first time. 
The patient was suffering from an aggressive form of lung cancer. To treat him, scientists removed immune cells from his blood, used CRISPR to “knock out” a gene that cancer can exploit to spread even faster, and reintroduced the modified cells back into the patient. It’s hoped that the edited cells will help the patient defeat cancer, although the results of the trial have not been fully disclosed.
Advertisement

Regardless of the outcome in this specific case,  the use of CRISPR to target disease in individuals humans heralds a new chapter in personalized medicine, and it could spark a race to get gene-edited cells into clinics for all sorts of applications. There’s still a lot of uncertainty surrounding all of this—after all, CRISPR is a new technology, and it’s currently in the  midst of a fierce patent battle. But if one thing’s clear, it’s that using technology to alter one’s own genetic code is not going to be science fiction for much longer.
For more than a decade, astronomers have wondered whether there’s a hidden ninth planet lurking in the icy outer reaches of our solar system. This year, Caltech astronomers Konstantin Batygin and Mike Brown presented compelling evidence that so-called Planet 9 is the real deal. Larger than Neptune and colder than hell frozen over, Planet 9 appears to be orbiting the Sun on a highly elliptical path, at a distance of 100 to more than 1,000 astronomical units.
Advertisement

At least, that’s our best guess based on the orbits of a handful of off-kilter Kuiper Belt Objects (KBOs), which are apparently being influenced by this mysterious planet’s gravity.
Of course, the real way to confirm a camera-shy planet’s existence is not with funky KBOs, but with photographic evidence. We need to spot Planet 9 in the sky; no easy feat seeing as cold and faraway objects emit very little light or heat. Undeterred, several astronomers, including Brown, are now making a concerted effort to find Planet 9, and they seem optimistic that it can be done within a few years. Oh, and don’t worry, scientists assure us that if Planet 9 does exist, it doesn’t have secret plans to destroy the Earth.
With carbon emissions soaring and the specter of catastrophic climate change looming,  scientists are starting to think seriously about how we can pull carbon out of the air. This concept, known as “carbon capture and storage” (CCS) has been around for years, but 2016 saw an exciting new development, when researchers at the University of Southhampton dissolved atmospheric carbon in water and sealed it in an underground well in Iceland. Over the course of two years, the carbon reacted with basaltic minerals, eventually crystallizing into a solid form, which will remain sequestered for centuries to millennia.
While exciting and headline-grabby, the news that scientists had “turned CO2 into stone” comes with some important caveats. The method is site specific, meaning it’ll likely only work in regions with similar geology and geochemistry to the Icelandic underground storage well. What’s more, scaling up from a laboratory experiments to a method that can make a dent in the billions of tons of carbon we emit every year, is going to be an enormous challenge. It’d be wiser to try and keep some of that carbon in the ground in the first place.
The secret to radical life extension may not come from a lab in Silicon Valley, but from the Greenland shark, a deep-sea swimmer that can live up to 400 years, according to an astonishing new study published this year in Science. As a radiocarbon dating analysis of 28 female Greenland sharks showed, these elusive animals are by far the longest-lived vertebrates on the planet, with the oldest individual falling somewhere between 272 and 512 years of age.
So, what’s the Greenland shark’s secret to extremely protracted youth? In all likelihood, the animal’s got an extremely low-key metabolism, resulting in slow growth and reproductive maturation. Unfortunately, being chilled to a virtually cryogenic state is probably a key component of this animal’s life strategy. Anybody want to spend a few years at the bottom of the Arctic ocean and report back?
Thank you science. Not only for giving order to this wild world but also looking damn good while you’re doing it. Here’s stunning microscopic footage of the growth of silver and lead that’s generated during metal displacement. Seeing the contrast between the white from the silver and the black from the lead is really dramatic, plus the structures that get created are beautiful.

Canadian Geoscientists have uncovered water that dates back a whopping two billion years. It’s the oldest water ever discovered on Earth, and it could broaden our understanding of how life emerged on our planet—and possibly elsewhere.
The University of Toronto researchers found the primordial water at a depth of 1.5 miles miles (2.4 km) in Kidd Creek Mine, which is located in Timmins, Ontario. The team, co-led by geoscientist Oliver Warr, explained their findings  at an American Geophysical Union meeting held earlier this week in San Francisco. These findings are set to appear in a future edition of the journal Nature.  
Advertisement

Three years ago, these same researchers discovered 1.5 billion-year-old water in the same active copper, zinc, and silver mine, but at a shallower depth. They decided to look deeper, finding pools of water that date back to a time when the Earth was just 2.5 billion years old. Incredibly, this ancient water was freely flowing, and not embedded within rock formations as some geoscientists had assumed.
“When people think about this water they assume it must be some tiny amount of water trapped within the rock,” said U of T geochemist Barbara Sherwood Lollar in a conversation with the BBC. “But in fact it’s very much bubbling right up out at you. These things are flowing at rates of litres per minute—the volume of the water is much larger than anyone anticipated.”
Advertisement

A chemical analysis of the water revealed traces of helium, argon, neon, krypton, and xenon. These gases accumulate in the water over time, allowing the researchers to calculate its age. The water also contains trace metals and salt (about eight times the amount found in seawater). “It won’t kill you if you drank it, but it would taste absolutely disgusting,” noted Warr in a CBC article.
The researchers describe the water as an “interconnected fluid system” deep in the Canadian Shield that’s billions of years old and capable of supporting life. “We are just slowly beginning to understand that in fact we are looking at a whole new hydrosphere on the planet,” explained Lollar to the National Post. And indeed, several regions on Earth contain ancient isolated water in geological formations below the surface.
Further analysis of this old timey H2O could reveal new insights into the state of the Earth’s atmosphere two billion years ago. Importantly, this water could also tell us something about how life might have once existed at these extreme depths, and the kind of life we might expect to find on alien planets.
[CBC, BBC, National Post]
During exploratory missions to the Mariana Trench in 2014 and 2015, scientists recorded mysterious sounds they dubbed the “Western Pacific Biotwang.” New research has exposed the cause of these eerie noises from the deep.
The recurring noises are a weird mixture of the biological and the mechanical, leading to confusion over the likely cause. The five-part sounds, which last no longer than 3.5 seconds, include deep moans at frequencies as low as 30 hertz and a strangely metallic finale that reaches frequencies as high as 8,000 hertz.
Here’s a recording:

New research published in the Journal of the Acoustical Society of America suggests these sounds are being produced by a species of baleen whale, likely dwarf minke whales—and it’s a completely new whale call for them. “It’s very distinct, with all these crazy parts,” noted Sharon Nieukirk, an expert in marine bioacoustics at Oregon State University, in a statement. “The low-frequency moaning part is typical of baleen whales, and it’s that kind of twangy sound that makes it really unique. We don’t find many new baleen whale calls.”
Advertisement

According to the new research, the Western Pacific Biotwang most closely resembles the so-called “Star Wars” sound produced by dwarf minke whales (a type of baleen whale) on the Great Barrier Reef off the northeast coast of Australia:

The sounds also resemble “boings” made by baleen whales in the North Pacific, and low-frequency pulses made by baleen whales in the North Atlantic. The similarities between the Western Pacific Biotwang and these sounds suggests baleen whales are responsible for the unique call. All these whale calls tend to have a complex structure, a dramatic frequency sweep, and a metallic finish. Still, questions remain.
Advertisement

“If it’s a mating call, why are we getting it year round? That’s a mystery,” said Nieukirk. “We need to determine how often the call occurs in summer versus winter, and how widely this call is really distributed.”
Not an easy task given the elusive nature of these deep sea whales. Minkes are the smallest of the baleen whales, and they don’t spend much time at the surface. They have a very inconspicuous blow, and they often swim in areas where high seas make sightings difficult. And more data is needed to confirm that minkes are actually making these noises.
“Our hope is to mount an expedition to go out and do acoustic localization, find the animals, get biopsy samples and find out exactly what’s making the sound,” said Nieukirk. “It really is an amazing, weird sound, and good science will explain it.”
[The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America]
Scientists at NASA have created a stunning high-resolution 3D visualization showing the complex ebbs and flows of carbon dioxide in the Earth’s atmosphere over the course of an entire year. It’s a unique perspective that’s sure to change the way you think about this problematic greenhouse gas.
We’ve seen 2D visualizations like this before, but the new video, with its 3D view, is truly eye opening. Watching it, we can see the steady rise of CO2 in the Northern Hemisphere, and how this greenhouse gas is influenced by continents, mountain ranges, ocean currents, weather patterns—and even by highly photosynthetic regions like the US Corn Belt.

The latitudinal differences in CO2 accumulation are readily evident in this video, the result of more fossil fuel burning in the Northern Hemisphere, and the result of photosynthetic activity by plants, among other factors.
Advertisement

Roughly half of all human-caused carbon emissions get sucked up by the land and ocean, while the remaining half lingers in the atmosphere where it contributes to the notorious greenhouse gas effect. Visualizations such as this one are helping scientists gain a better understanding of  which ecosystems—especially those on land—are absorbing CO2, and at what rates.
Importantly, scientists are hoping to learn if the land and ocean will continue its intense rate of CO2 absorption, or if we’ll eventually reach a saturation point. Which, in a word, would be bad.
[NASA]
Another year has passed, which means we’re another step closer to the tomorrow of our dreams. Here are the most futuristic developments of 2016.
In a tournament that rivaled the historical importance of Deep Blue vs chess grandmaster Garry Kasparov in 1996 and Deep Blue vs the best Jeopardy champs in 2011, Google’s AlphaGo won four of the five games it played against Go world champion Lee Sedol. Going into the tournament, some experts naively presumed that the machine wouldn’t have a chance against a human in a game notorious for its complexity and sophisticated gameplay.
Following his loss, Sedol sheepishly admitted, “ After my experience with AlphaGo, I have come to question the classical beliefs a little bit, so I have more study to do.” Sedol’s defeat was a resounding reminder that machines are quickly catching up to human levels of intelligence, and that no human domain is immune to the powers of AI.
We knew that self-driving taxis were an inevitability, but when Uber deployed a fleet of autonomous vehicles back in October, it still came as a tremendous shock—a moment that marked the beginning of a new era in transportation.
The cars are still far from perfect, and some jurisdictions are having fits over these pilot programs, but it’ll only be a matter of time before ridesharing in robotic cars is ubiquitous.
A controversial technique known as mitochondrial nuclear transfer was used to produce a baby boy using genetic material from three distinct parents. This therapy stops serious conditions from being passed down from mother to child—in this case a fatal and debilitating genetic disorder called Leigh Syndrome, which affects the developing nervous system. The technique is not yet legal in the United States, which is why Dr. John Zhang of Manhattan’s New Hope Fertility Center performed the procedure in Mexico, where “there are no rules.”
A 14-year-old girl with terminal brain cancer had her dying wish come true when a British high court approved her request to be preserved at a cryonics facility in the United States. The teen’s estranged father had initially opposed her wishes, but the court decided that her mother was the best person to work on behalf of the girl’s best interests.
The teen has since died, and is now cryopreserved at the Cryonics Institute in Michigan. This precedent-setting case showed that the desire to be preserved in a giant vat of liquid nitrogen is not so radical as to influence a judge’s decision about guardianship.
Researchers from Synthetic Genomics and the J. Craig Venter Institute designed and created a “minimal” synthetic bacterial genome that’s smaller than anything found in nature.
The point of the experiment was to create a baseline genome that scientists can use to study life, and to use as a “chassis” for adding new sets of genes. Called Syn3.0, the 473-gene bacterium could be used to construct virtually any kind of cell with custom-built properties, allowing scientists to create artificial lifeforms that can be used to produce novel medicines, biochemicals, biofuels, and food.
Back in 2015, a team of Chinese scientists became the first to use the CRISPR gene editing tool to modify a human embryo, removing a faulty gene responsible for a fatal blood disorder (the embryos were destroyed after the experiment). But in April of this year, a second team of Chinese researchers used CRISPR to do something far more interesting—they endowed human embryos with a biological enhancement.
Specifically, the researchers introduced a beneficial mutation that cripples an immune-cell gene that it makes it impossible for the HIV virus to infiltrate human immune cells (as in the 2015 experiment, the embryos were later destroyed). A very small fraction of the human population has this built-in immunity, but this experiment showed that CRISPR could eventually be used to make it universally available.
Advertisement

In related news, a research team from Sichuan University in China delivered modified immune cells into a patient suffering from an aggressive form of lung cancer. The scientists used CRISPR-Cas9 to make the cells more resilient in the presence of cancer, marking the first time that the powerful gene-editing tool was used to treat a living human.
This was a big year for brain-computer interfaces (BCIs). A research team led by Miguel Nicolelis from Duke Health developed a wireless brain interface that allows monkeys to control the movements of a robot wheelchair using their thoughts alone, while a team from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne used an implanted neural device to restore walking movements in paralyzed primates.
Researchers in the Netherlands successfully tested a brain implant that allowed a patient with late-stage Lou Gehrig’s disease to spell messages at the rate of two letters per minute, and in a related experiment, monkeys used a BCI to text at 12 words a minute with their minds. Researchers at Johns Hopkins demonstrated a system that enables a person to move the individual fingers of a prosthetic hand using just his thoughts, while a team from the Battelle Memorial Institute developed a brain implant that enabled a quadriplegic man to play Guitar Hero with his hands, making him the first person in history to regain function using signals from his brain.
After nauseating levels of anticipation and hype, fully-immersive virtual reality headsets finally became available to consumers, though they come with a high price-tag. And wouldn’t you know it, products like Oculus Rift and HTC Vive lived up even to the loftiest of expectations. These devices are truly awesome and as much fun as we hoped.
This past May, over a hundred scientists, lawyers, and entrepreneurs held a secret meeting to discuss the possibility of creating a synthetic human genome. Journalists were not invited, and attendees were told to keep a tight lip. A month later, Harvard biologist George Church said the whole thing was blown out of proportion, and that the project, dubbed the Human Genome Project-write (HGP-write), is an effort to build and deploy a fully synthetic genome in human cell lines within a decade.
The researchers are hoping to develop powerful new technologies that will allow them to connect long strings of artificial human DNA, and then power these synthetic cells in a petri dish—and nothing more (or so they say). That’s all fine and well, but research in this area could eventually be used to create artificial organisms and even designer humans.
In October, a report put out by the International Energy Agency showed that renewable electricity capacity growth is at an all-time high, hitting the 153 gigawatt (GW) mark (that’s basically the entire energy output of Canada). Most of this growth came from new onshore wind and solar power plants (about half a million solar panels were installed each day around the world last year).
The IEA says that, for the first time, “renewables accounted for more than half of net annual additions to power capacity and overtook coal in terms of cumulative installed capacity in the world.” Technically speaking, we reached this milestone in 2015, but we didn’t realize it until October of this year.
On October 7, the British pound suffered a “flash crash,” plummeting six percent against the US dollar within a matter of minutes. Experts pointed to high-frequency stock trading as the culprit—and possibly a single algorithm that was reacting to comments made by French President Francois Hollande, who called for tougher Brexit negotiations. The incident pointed to the growing power of—and our reliance on—lightning-fast bots, and how we’re increasingly unable to control them.
In related news, students at Georgia Tech were duped into thinking one of their teaching assistants was an actual human named Jill Watson, when in reality it was an AI. The digital TA managed to answer the students’ questions with 97 percent certainty in a charade that lasted for nearly the entire month of April.
By using a chemical compound to turn a rabbit’s brain into a glass-like state, and then cooling it to near-liquid nitrogen temperatures, a research team from 21st Century Medicine (21CM) showed that it’s possible to achieve near-perfect, long-term structural preservation of an intact mammalian brain.
The new technique will allow scientists to study brains in unprecedented detail, but it could also apply to cryonics, the practice of preserving a person in cold storage in the hopes that they’ll eventually be brought back to life. The technique essentially turns a brain into an inert chunk of plastic, destroying all biological components in the process—leading to concerns that the technique, at best, will only ever result in the restoration of a duplicated brain.
In February, German scientists used an experimental nuclear fusion device to produce hydrogen plasma. During the experiment, a 2-megawatt pulse of microwave energy blasted a cloud of hydrogen gas, converting it into an extremely low-density hydrogen plasma.
It lasted for just a fraction of a second, but the plasma hit 80 million degrees in a process similar to what happens on the sun. It will be a while yet before we achieve safe, containable, and sustainable nuclear fusion, but this test marked an important step in that direction.
Sixty miles beneath the birch-speckled forests of southern New Hampshire, the rocks are hotter than they should be—much hotter. First discovered in the 1970s, the heat anomaly was thought to be the remnants of an ancient hotspot in the Earth’s mantle. Instead, new seismic measurements suggest it’s an area of active upwelling. And that has led geologists to an astonishing conclusion.
In the not-too-distant future—geologically speaking—New Hampshire could have volcanoes.
Advertisement

“I would not be surprised if, in a few million years, we had volcanoes again on the East Coast of the United States,” said Bill Menke, a geologist at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, who presented this fascinating finding at the American Geophysical Union meeting this week. The work was recently published in Geophysical Research Letters.
The East Coast of North America is not exactly a geologic party town. It’s what Earth scientists call a “passive margin,” meaning the main thing happening is that sediment is slowly eroding into the sea. But quiescent places like this have long fascinated Menke “because when you look at them, you discover they’re actually pretty active, even though they lack plate tectonics,” he said.
Case in point: the Northern Appalachian Anomaly (NAA), a 250 mile (400 km)-wide hotspot centered in the upper mantle beneath southern New Hampshire. “We’ve known about it for a long time,” Menke said, explaining that subsurface imaging, along with abnormal helium spikes in New Hampshire’s ground water, tipped geologists off to the NAA years ago. (In volcanically-active places, helium from the mantle bubbles vigorously to the surface, like CO2 fizzing out of a soda.)
Advertisement

The leading hypothesis was that the NAA is a relic of a much larger feature, a “Great Meteor hot spot” that traversed southern New England more than 100 million years ago. In other words, a fossil of a bygone era when the East Coast was more alive.
Menke’s new data suggests otherwise. He and his students have spent the last few years driving around New England and southern Canada, putting out portable seismometers, and “listening” to the waves generated by large earthquakes halfway across the world. If the ground beneath a seismometer is hotter, it’ll take seismic waves a little longer to pass through it.
This analysis has led the researchers to several conclusions. One, the NAA is about twice as hot as we thought, roughly 2,300 degrees Fahrenheit (1,300 degrees Celsius). As Menke points out, that’s  comparable to the temperature inside small volcanoes in the western US. Two, the NAA’s shape and orientation suggest it is the result of hot mantle material rising toward the surface in the present day.
“What we suspect is that the motion of the continent across the mantle is causing a draft, and upwelling,” Menke said. “I’d call it a wind, in a metaphorical sense.”
Menke suspects updrafts in the mantle could be common along seemingly inactive continental margins, from the East Coast of North America to the West Coast of Africa to southern Australia. In fact, recent data show similar heat anomalies beneath northern Virginia, South Carolina and Louisiana.
Advertisement

Eventually, updrafting could cause some hotspots to bust through to the surface, creating new volcanoes in areas that have not seen such action in millions of years.
“I think we’re going to find a lot of them worldwide, and we’re going to start thinking about how they affect the continents,” Menke said.
[Geophysical Research Letters]
You thought those bright spots on dwarf planet Ceres were cool? That was only the half of it. Ceres is also covered in dark spots, craters that—because of their position—never see the light of day. Now, astronomers have discovered that at least one and perhaps many of these shadowy regions are filled with water ice.
Ceres’ bright spots have captivated imaginations for more than a year, ever since NASA’s Dawn spacecraft began approaching the dwarf planet in the spring of 2015. Initially, scientists suspected the bright spots were made of ice, but the first good spectral data from Dawn revealed otherwise. The bright spots are actually giant piles of salt, dashing our  hopes that Ceres might one day serve as an interplanetary gas station.

But now, evidence has emerged that water ice could be widespread on the surface of Ceres, after all. It’s just been hiding from us, according to Norbert Schorghofer of the University of Hawaii, who presented his research on Ceres’ “persistently shadowed regions” in a talk at the American Geophysical Union Conference this morning. The research, which was led by Thomas Platz of the Max Planck Institute, also appears today in Nature Astronomy.
“There are over 600 persistently shadowed regions on Ceres,” Schorghofer said, noting that these shadowlands are mostly associated with craters near the dwarf planet’s poles. “I call it Ceres’ darkest secret.”
Advertisement

Because persistently shadowed regions, by definition, get no sunlight, they’re considered “cold traps,” meaning they suck ice and water vapor in and keep it locked away forever. That is exactly what has happened in at least one dark crater near Ceres’ north pole.
During its flyovers of the north pole, the Dawn’s Framing Camera was able to capture enough scattered light from this crater—unimaginatively called PSR2, though I prefer Narnia—to “see” inside of it. What it saw was a giant sheet of water ice.
Advertisement

So far, PSR2 is the only dark spot which we’ve been able to peer into, but there could be others like it. “We assume other bright deposits in shadowed regions are water ice as well,” Schorghofer said. Other planets like Mercury feature water ice in virtually every cold trap on their surface.
Where the ice on the surface of Ceres originated is still a matter of debate, although the dark spots may be connected to the bright spots. Scientists suspect that the salt heaps found in craters like Occator (shown in the video above) were excavated from a subsurface brine layer during ancient impacts. Initially, those impacts would have brought a mix of water and ice to the surface. It’s possible that over time water escaped the bright spots, bounced around the planet, and eventually got sucked into Ceres’ cold traps.
It’s no surprise that Ceres’ dazzling bright spots captured our attention during the Dawn mission. But never let anyone say they’re the only cool thing about Ceres. After all, as soon as humans start traveling beyond Earth’s orbit, water is going to become the most precious resource in the solar system.
[Nature Astronomy]
Marine biologists working off the coast of Australia have observed orca whales hunting and killing rare beaked whales—a behavior never before seen in the predatory species.
Scientists have seen orcas hunt an assortment of prey, including fish, seals, dolphins, and even the calves of large whales. But beaked whales? That’s a completely new hunting behavior, one that appears to be unique to orcas living near Bremer Bay in southwest Australia.
Advertisement

For the past two years, a research team led by Rebecca Wellard of Curtin University in Perth has accompanied commercial whale-watching boats to catch a glimpse of orca whales in action. On four of these outings, the researchers watched in horror and amazement as groups of up to 20 orca whales attacked and killed lone beaked whales. Their findings are now in the open access journal PLOS One.
As a warning, there are some disturbing images to follow.
Orcas, of course, are also known as killer whales—and for good reason—though technically speaking they’re actually dolphins. They’re one of the world’s most powerful apex predators, and they’re found in most of the Earth’s oceans. They can pretty much feast on whatever they want, even endangered species.
While making their observations near Bremer Bay, the researchers watched as the orcas stalked their prey for hours. As is typical of orcas, they chased their prey to exhaustion, eventually killing the beaked whales through successive bites and forcing them underwater to drown. On two of these occasions, the orcas were seen stripping the carcasses of skin, indicating they were hunting for a meal and not just doing it for sport.
Beaked whales are toothless with elongated beaks, and they range in size from 13 to 43 feet (4-13 meters) in length. Not much is known about these whales owing to their deep-sea habitat, mysterious habits, and low abundance. Of the 22 species known to scientists, only four have been reasonably studied. In the new study, the orcas appear to be feasting on young or female strap-tooth whales.
[PLOS One via New Scientist]
Launched from a L-1011 Stargazer aircraft, a Pegasus XL rocket has successfully delivered a constellation of eight micro-satellites into space as part of the Cyclone Global Navigation Satellite System (CYGNSS).
At 8:37 am EST, and at a height of 40,00 feet, the three-stage Pegasus XL rocket fired up  and began its ascent into low Earth orbit, reaching a height of 310 miles (500 km) altitude. Here’s the launch in all its glory:

Once in space, the eight satellites were deployed in pairs at 30-second intervals starting at the 13 minute mark of the flight. Teams at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Florida were seen applauding the final successful deployment of the CYGNSS satellites.
“It’s right on the money,” said Chris Ruf, CYGNSS principal investigator and a professor of Atmospheric Sciences and Electrical Engineering at the University of Michigan. “We’ll start getting our science data early next week.”
Now that they’re in space, the eight micro-satellites will measure wind speeds over Earth’s oceans, which will improve our ability to understand and predict hurricanes. Each satellite, labelled A to H, will take information based on signals pulled from four GPS satellites. Together, the eight satellites will increase the total area on Earth that can be monitored, while providing measurements of wind speed over the tropics every few hours (compared to every few days from a single satellite).
The Pegasus air-launched rocket was developed by Orbital ATK back in the 1990s, and it remains a cheap and effective way to deliver small satellites into orbit. Next year, a Pegasus rocket will deliver the Ionospheric Connection Explorer (ICON), a satellite designed to investigate changes in the Earth’s ionosphere.
[NASA CYGNSS Hurricane Mission]
Marine biologists have discovered six new animal species in undersea hot springs nearly two miles deep in the southwest Indian Ocean—an area already slated for future seafloor mining.
Researchers from the University of Southampton and the Natural History Museum in London and Newcastle found the new creatures hiding around hydrothermal vents at a place called Longqi (meaning “dragon’s breath”), about 1,200 miles (2,000 km) southeast of Madagascar, and at a depth of 9,200 feet (2,800 m). This latest research, with its description of six new species, has been published in the journal Scientific Reports.
Advertisement

Using a deep-diving remotely operated vehicle (ROV), the researchers managed to explore an area about the size of a football field, and it was littered with more than a dozen mineral spires known as vent chimneys. Some of these spires rise more than two storeys above the seabed, and they attract deep-sea animals who are nourished by the hot fluids streaming out from the chimneys. In addition to hosting marine life, these spires are rich in copper and gold, hence the interest in deep sea mining.
“We can be certain that the new species we’ve found also live elsewhere in the southwest Indian Ocean, as they will have migrated here from other sites, but at the moment no-one really knows where, or how well-connected their populations are with those at Longqi,” noted Copley in a statement. “Our results highlight the need to explore other hydrothermal vents in the southwest Indian Ocean and investigate the connectivity of their populations, before any impacts from mineral exploration activities and future deep-sea mining can be assessed.”
In addition to the new species, the researchers also uncovered a batch of marine animals known to scientists, including a scaleworm that lives at vents near the Antarctic, and a ragworm that lives at vents in the eastern Pacific some 6,200 miles (10,000 km) away. The new research shows that vent animals are more widely distributed across the oceans than previously assumed.
In March 1968, a Soviet Golf II submarine carrying nuclear ballistic missiles exploded and sank…
Sadly, seafloor mining is expected to be a growth industry in the near future. Over 400,000 square miles (about a million square kilometers) has already been earmarked in the high seas of the Pacific, Atlantic, and Indian oceans by over 16 countries. It’s not clear if this latest survey, which was commissioned by the International Seabed Authority of the United Nations, will have any impact on future mining efforts around Longqi.
[Scientific Reports]
NASA’s Juno mission may have fallen behind schedule, but that hasn’t stopped artists and amateur astronomers from having a blast with the data. The Jupiter-orbiting spacecraft’s citizen science camera just sent back its second batch of close-up images—and over the past few days, folks have been processing them to create some out-of-this-world artwork.
On Sunday, the Juno spacecraft reached perijove, the closest point in its 53.5-day orbit around Jupiter, for the third time since arriving earlier this summer. As the spacecraft’s scientific instruments collected data on Jupiter’s interior and its magnetic field, JunoCam was busy snapping images of cool cyclones and weird dark splotches that the public had selected through an online portal.
Advertisement

It’s the most ambitious citizen science project NASA has ever spearheaded, according to the Planetary Science Institute’s Candice Hansen, who’s leading JunoCam team. “Initially, we thought we’d just carry out [Juno’s] imaging experiment as if we were in a fishbowl—that we’d just do everything on the web where everyone can see it,” Hansen told Gizmodo. “Eventually, it evolved into this more participatory thing that we have now.”
There are a few different ways the public can get involved with JunoCam. Backyard telescope astronomers can snap photos of Jupiter and upload them to the JunoCam website’s “planning” section. These images are used to create an ever-changing map of Jupiter’s cloud tops, which serves as a basis for identifying and discussing interesting features.
Then, as Juno approaches each subsequent perijove, folks can vote on which features the camera ought to target. After targets have been selected and after the spacecraft has made its perijove flyby, raw images captured by JunoCam’s red, green, blue, and methane filters  are uploaded to the website, where they can be downloaded and processed by anyone.
During the most recent perijove on December 11th, JunoCam had its sights set on one of Jupiter’s “pearls,” a series of gigantic, oval-shaped storms in the gas giant’s southern hemisphere, a “weird dark spot,” also in the southern hemisphere, and a blip in the northern hemisphere that looks a bit like a Starfleet insignia if you squint really hard.
Advertisement

Already, folks around the world have downloaded the raw images and gone to town in Photoshop to make some beautifully trippy, Jovian artwork.
Some JunoCam participants are also creating valuable products for the mission team, including high-quality annotations of Jupiter’s tempestuous and ever-changing weather systems. Hansen hopes that this trend will continue as the mission revs up.
“The camera is on Juno to do outreach, but there’s no reason we can’t learn about Jupiter by looking at the pictures,” she said. “Our vision, now, is that all of the things an imaging team would do around a table at a conference, we can do on the web.”
A new report by the US Environmental Protection Agency concludes that hydraulic fracturing is capable of contaminating drinking water at virtually every stage in the process. The admission won’t sit well with President-elect Donald Trump, who has vowed to expand the controversial practice.
In a preliminary report released just last year, the EPA said there’s “no evidence that fracking systemically contaminates [drinking] water.” Just a year later, the agency has performed an about-face, admitting there’s sufficient scientific evidence linking the controversial practice to tainted drinking water. The ESA’s final conclusions were based upon a review of over 1,200 cited scientific sources, feedback from an independent peer review, and 13 new peer-reviewed reports conducted as part of the study.
Advertisement

Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water and other chemicals deep underground where the resulting high-pressure causes cracks to form in the shale rock, allowing oil and gas to trickle into a wellbore. Alarmingly, the EPA found that fracking contributes to drinking water contamination during all stages of the process:
The EPA admits that “data gaps and uncertainties” are limiting its ability to fully evaluate the impacts of fracking on the nation’s water resources, saying more research is needed. That said, the environmental agency says it can no longer support its earlier conclusion stating there’s insufficient evidence linking the two.
If Donald Trump is trying to make good on his promise to dismantle the Environmental Protection…
These findings stand to conflict with the views of Donald Trump, who has promised to expand fracking and roll back existing regulations on the practice. Last week, the President-elect picked Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt to head the EPA—a grim choice given Pruitt’s longtime feud with the agency and his commitment to fossil fuels. And just yesterday, Trump chose Rick Perry, the pro-fracking former governor of Texas, to head the Energy Department.
Advertisement

Sadly, this report was issued a little too late. Trump will either criticize the report for its apparent inadequacies or choose to ignore it altogether. Worse still, and with the help of Pruitt, he may gut the EPA to prevent inconvenient reports like this from coming out in the first place.
[EPA, New York Times]
Seventy percent of Earth’s surface is covered by water, meaning if we were unfortunate enough to be struck by an enormous asteroid, it’d probably make a big splash. A team of data scientists at Los Alamos National Laboratory recently decided to model what would happen if an asteroid struck the sea. Despite the apocalyptic subject matter, the results are quite beautiful.
Galen Gisler and his colleagues at LANL are using supercomputers to visualize how the kinetic energy of a fast-moving space rock would be transferred to the ocean on impact. The results, which Gisler presented at the American Geophysical Union meeting this week, may come as a surprise to those who grew up on disaster movies like Deep Impact. Asteroids are point sources, and it turns out waves generated by point sources diminish rapidly, rather than growing more ferocious as they cover hundreds of miles to swallow New York.
The bigger concern, in most asteroid-on-ocean situations, is water vapor.

“The most significant effect of an impact into the ocean is the injection of water vapor into the stratosphere, with possible climate effects” Gisler said. Indeed, Gisler’s simulations show that large (250 meter-across) rock coming in very hot could vaporize up to 250 metric megatons of water. Lofted into the troposphere, that water vapor would rain out fairly quickly. But water vapor that makes it all the way up to the stratosphere can stay there for a while. And because it’s a potent greenhouse gas, this could have a major effect on our climate.
Advertisement

Of course, not all asteroids make it to the surface at all. Smaller sized ones, which are much more common in our solar neighborhood, tend to explode while they’re still in the sky, creating a pressure wave that propagates outwards in all directions. Gisler’s models show that when these “airburst” asteroids strike over the ocean, they produce less stratospheric water vapor, and smaller waves. “The airburst considerably mitigates the effect on the water,” he said.
Overall, Gisler says, asteroids over the ocean  pose less of a danger to humans than asteroids over the land. There’s one big exception, however, and that’s asteroids that strike near a coastline.
“An impact or an airburst [near] a populated shore will be very dangerous,” Gisler said. In that case, the gigantic, city-devouring tsunami every B-list disaster movie has primed you for might actually arrive.
Advertisement

Correction: An earlier version of this post misspelled Dr. Gisler’s last name. The text has been updated.
A huge expanse of cold, Arctic air is sweeping through parts of Canada and the United States. Known as a “polar vortex,” the weather system is expected to deliver record-setting low temperatures and a particularly nasty wind chill.
This visualization was made from data collected by the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder (AIRS) instrument onboard NASA’s Aqua satellite, and it shows temperature data in the infrared spectrum.

From December 1 to 11, AIRS tracked the cold snap as it swept across North America. On December 7, the polar vortex had descended into the Plains states and reached Colorado, Kansas, and Missouri. The cold air continued to make its way from west to east, reaching into the Ohio Valley and New England on December 9. These regions are now feeling the brunt of this cold air mass, which is expected to deliver frigid record-setting temperatures this week.
Subzero temperatures are expected across the Upper Midwest today and tomorrow. By Thursday morning, Minnesota, Wisconsin, parts of the Dakotas, and Chicago are set to feel wind chills colder than -20 degrees F (-29 degrees C). Records for cold temperatures are also expected in northern Illinois, Michigan, Ohio, Kentucky, and West Virginia. Parts of Canada are also bracing for the big chill, including Manitoba and Ontario. New England and parts of the US East Coast can expect the cold temperatures to hit hard on Thursday and Friday, with wind chills ending up in the -10 to -25 degrees F range.
Advertisement

It sounds dramatic, but the polar vortex is nothing new. It’s a fundamental feature of our atmosphere, and an indelible component of our planet’s “global circulation.” This circulation serves as the Earth’s heat pump, moving extra energy from the tropics towards the poles, which keeps the planet’s temperatures in relative balance. The last time a major polar vortex event occurred was in January 2014, when the system delivered record low temperatures across much of North America.
[NASA, Washington Post]
Although we call erections “boners,” anyone who has basic familiarity with human anatomy knows our slang deceives us—for unlike most mammals, men have no penis bones. For decades scientists have wondered, “Why? No? Penis Bone?” A new study published in Proceedings of the Royal Society might finally answer the mystery of what killed the penis bone: monogamy.
To explain how, I gotta lay out some key baculum facts—that’s the scientific name for the penis bone—for all the PB n00bs out there. Penis bones are diverse in shape and size across many different mammals. The baculum of a walrus is two-feet long. In the bonobo, it is eight millimeters. In this new study, scientists set out to trace the evolutionary history of the baculum to account for the vast differences in penis bone length amongst animals.
Advertisement

The study ultimately discovered “a clear [relationship] between the bone’s length and a species’ promiscuity: more promiscuous species had longer bacula,” writes The Economist.
Kit Opie, a postdoctoral research fellow at University College London who led the study, tells The Guardian that penis bone length was longer in males that engaged in “prolonged intromission”—meaning when species take more than three minutes to mate. Males use “prolonged intromission” to keep the female away from his competition while he impregnates her. Matilda Brindle, the study’s co-author, explains it like this on The Conversation:
Far from simply being a nice way to spend an afternoon, prolonging intromission like this is a way for a male to prevent a female from sneaking off and mating with anyone else before his sperm have had a chance to work their magic.
What scientists now theorize is that human lost their penis bones when monogamy became prevalent, about 1.9 million years ago. They no longer had the pressing need to keep away the competition by fucking for a long time. After all, “the average duration from penetration to ejaculation for human males is less than two minutes,” Brindle reminds us. (Dudes... get it together...) Nevertheless, despite the grumblings of lonely hearts, human males simply don’t have intense sexual competition because human females tend to mate with one male at a time.
And that’s why you don’t have a dick bone. Good night, boys.
[The Guardian, The Economist, The Conversation]
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration just released its annual “Arctic Report Card,” a comprehensive overview of what’s happening at our planet’s North Pole. If it were an actual report card, the Arctic would be on the verge of flunking out of school.
“In terms of sea ice, I’d say sea ice cover is a D+,” Dartmouth University geophysicist Donald Perovich told reporters at a press conference at the American Geophysical Union meeting today. “Because I’m an easy grader.”
Advertisement

As Perovich’s generous D+ indicates, Arctic sea ice has been having an astonishingly bad year, beginning with a record early spring thaw and continuing through an unprecedented fall, during which ice cover has grown very slowly. In November, sea ice cover across the Arctic averaged just 3.51 million square miles, which is 753,000 square miles below the 1981 to 2010 average, according to the National Snow and Ice Data Center.
The culprit is obvious: rising temperatures.
“A persistent warming trend over the Arctic is driving the changes we’re seeing,” Perovich said, noting that since the beginning of the 20th century, temperatures over the Arctic’s land surfaces have risen approximately 3.5 degrees Celsius (6.3 degrees Fahrenheit), which is roughly twice the globally-averaged rate of warming.
From September of 2015 to September 2016, Arctic temperatures were the highest on record, with new monthly record highs recorded for January, February, October, and November. It’s important to note that records aren’t just being broken—they’re being shattered. Last month, the mercury was a whopping 20 degrees Celsius (36 degrees Fahrenheit) above normal across vast swaths of the Arctic Ocean.
As temperatures continue to rise, Arctic sea ice cover will continue to fall, which is bad news for polar bears, whose numbers are now expected to decline 30 percent over the next three to four decades. “Sea ice is the primary habitat for polar bears: they use it for traveling, hunting, finding mates, breeding,” explained Kristin Laidre of the University of Washington’s Polar Science Center, who presented the depressing polar bear outlook at an AGU press conference yesterday. “Looking forward, all subpopulations will be negatively impacted by a loss of ice.”
Advertisement

The effects of rapidly rising temperatures go far beyond hungry bears, however. As the latest Arctic report card highlights, sweeping ecological changes are now taking place across the land and sea.
Rising temperatures are stimulating the growth of phytoplankton, meaning parts of the Arctic ocean are becoming more biologically productive. At the same time, rising atmospheric CO2 levels are triggering ocean acidification, which causes tiny, shelled organisms to dissolve. This could have ripple effects up the food chain. As snow cover retreats, the tundra is getting greener and browner, with these darker surfaces absorbing more heat. Permafrost is thawing, and threatening to release vast quantities of buried soil carbon into the atmosphere.
Finally, Greenland is continuing to melt, shedding billions of tons of ice each year and causing global sea levels to rise. In 37 years of satellite observations, there was only one year in which Greenland began melting earlier than it did in 2016.
“We’ve seen a year in 2016 in the Arctic like we’ve never seen before,” said Jeremy Mathis of NOAA’s Arctic research program. “The report this year clearly shows a stronger and more persistent signal of pronounced warming than any other year in our record.”
“When [the report card] started, you had to listen closely because the Arctic was whispering change,” Perovich said. “Now it’s not whispering anymore. It’s speaking change and shouting change.”
President-elect Donald Trump has nominated former Texas governor and climate change denialist Rick Perry to lead the US Department of Energy—the same department Perry said he’d dismantle in his now-infamous “oops moment.”
During the 2011 GOP debates, Perry proudly proclaimed he would eliminate three federal agencies: Commerce, Education—and...um....uh....an agency the name of which he couldn’t remember. The fact Perry will now lead that forgotten agency is a supreme twist of irony.
Advertisement

It’s sad commentary on yet another dubious Trump cabinet appointment. Sadder still is how ill-equipped Perry is to lead this critically important national security agency.
The Department of Energy (DOE) is a Cabinet-level department in the United States government,…
The DOE is responsible for advancing the national, economic, and energy security of the US, promoting scientific and technological innovation in support of that mission (which weirdly includes genetics), and ensuring the safety and cleanup of America’s aging nuclear weapons. It’s also concerned with overseeing the nation’s programs on nuclear nonproliferation and counterterrorism. So important is this position, that the last two DOE secretaries included a Nobel Laureate (Steven Chu) and a professor from MIT (Ernest Moniz).
Advertisement

Instead of nominating a forward-looking, science savvy candidate for the position, Trump has chosen a pathetic former science student. This is a man who now openly questions the integrity of scientists, dismisses environmental risks posed by such things as greenhouse gases, fracking, and pipelines, and sees fossil fuels as a viable energy source for literally centuries to come. Perry is an unabashed climate change skeptic who once said:
I do believe that the issue of global warming has been politicized. I think there are a substantial number of scientists who have manipulated data so that they will have dollars rolling into their projects. And I think we are seeing almost weekly or even daily scientists are coming forward and questioning the original idea that man-made global warming is what is causing the climate to change. Yes our climate’s changed, they’ve been changing ever since the earth was born. But I do not buy into a group of scientists who have in some cases found to be manipulating this information.
And the cost to the country and the world of implementing these anti-carbon programs is in the billions if not trillions of dollars at the end of the day. And I don’t think, from my perspective, that I want America to be engaged in spending that much money still on a scientific theory that has not been proven, and from my perspective, is being put more and more into question.
During his failed campaign for the presidency (back when he referred to Trump as a “barking carnival act” and a “cancer on conservatism”), Perry said he’d repeal a number of Obama-led initiatives, including some environmental protections and the nuclear agreement with Iran—more on that a bit later. Perry is vehemently opposed to regulations placed on greenhouse gas emissions, saying they’ll have “devastating implications” to the nation’s economy and the energy industry. At the same time, he’d like to expand the practice of hydraulic fracturing for oil and gas, while authorizing construction of the controversial XL Pipeline.
Perry claims to be a supporter of an “all the above” energy strategy, including efforts to improve production of oil, coal, nuclear, biofuels, hydroelectric, solar, and wind energy. But he’s in no rush to invigorate the renewable energy sector, claiming there’s enough fossil fuel reserves in the US to meet the demand for the next 300 years.
Despite his antiquated stance on the environment, Perry signed the first law requiring drilling companies to disclose chemicals used during the fracking process—chemicals that are known to leak into water supplies. At the same time, Perry once told an audience of Pennsylvania steelworkers that he would “create another 250,000 jobs by getting the EPA out of the way” of natural gas drilling. He also claimed he could create 1.2 million jobs by increasing American energy production. To make it happen, he would open up numerous areas currently off-limits to oil and gas exploration, and repeal regulations he believes are hampering domestic production of fossil fuels, including drilling in Alaska’s Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and the Gulf of Mexico.
“The next economic boom is right under our feet,” he told the prospective voters. “And what has been this administration’s response to our energy potential? They’ve thrown up every bureaucratic obstacle possible in order to advance an activist agenda.”
Advertisement

In addition to pushing his pro-fossil fuel, anti-environment, anti-science agenda, Perry will likely back President-elect Trump’s promise to scrap Obama’s nuclear agreement with Iran. While running for office, Perry said, “one of my first actions in office would be to invalidate the president’s Iran agreement, which jeopardizes the safety and security of the free world.” He believes the current agreement enables a nuclear Iran, and not the opposite, saying “no agreement is better than a bad agreement.” In its place, Perry would support economic sanctions, military strikes on Iran’s nuclear facilities, and supporting Iran’s internal opposition.
Last week, Donald Trump’s transition team asked the Department of Energy for a list of staff and…
The fine folks at the DOE’s various departments and research labs are now bracing themselves for the coming shock that will be the Trump Administration. And if early signs are any indication, it’s going to be a rough road ahead for everyone involved.
[New York Times, Guardian, LA Times, Bloomberg, CBS News]
Over the past few years, as people have been freaking out about a plan to release genetically modified mosquitoes in the Florida Keys, the company behind those mosquitoes has been quietly toiling away on another project. This week, British biotech company Oxitec announced plans for field trials of a genetically modified Mediterranean fruit fly in Western Australia. The so-called Medfly is a devastating agricultural pest, and by engineering it to produce offspring that cannot survive, Oxitec hopes to cull its numbers.
Oxitec’s mutant mosquitoes, intended to help stop the spread of Zika virus and other mosquito-borne illnesses, were just the beginning. The company envisions a world where all of the threats that insects pose are mitigated by simply engineering a species to better regulate itself.
Advertisement

The Medfly, a parasite of over 250 crops, is considered one of the most menacing agricultural pests in the world. It lays its eggs under the skin of fruits and vegetables, and after its offspring hatch they develop into larvae that feed on the pulp. In the 1980s, a severe Medfly infestation swept through California, devastating agricultural production and also residents, who were alarmed by the intense aerial pesticide spraying that ensued. Today, Medfly still threatens crops through throughout North America and Australia.
“Medfly is a bad pest wherever it occurs,” said David Windsor, the horticulture director of Western Australia’s Department of Agriculture and Food. “It is voracious.”
Biological methods of control have long been considered the best way to fight the Medfly. Typically, billions of male flies are radioactively sterilized in the lab and then released to mate with wild females, in order to reduce the wild population over time. Oxitec’s method is a riff on this “sterile insect technique,” using genetic engineering to sterilize male flies more precisely. While radiation spurs random mutations that—with luck—render male mosquitoes sterile, Oxitec’s Medfly is augmented with two new genes. One of those genes glows under the microscope to allow the flies to be tracked. The other, a “self-limiting” gene, causes offsprings’ developmental cycles to go haywire, ensuring they never make it to an age where they might mate.
Oxitec has already had a string of successful in-lab trials with its genetically-modified Medfly. And last week, the Western Australian government released the results of a greenhouse trial it conducted testing whether Oxitec’s engineered mosquitoes mate as well as traditional, radiation-sterilized bugs. They do. The government said it now plans to go ahead with a trial to see how Oxitec’s mutant fruit flies fare in the wild.
Advertisement

Environmentalists have long supported traditional sterilization as a pest-control tactic—no scary chemicals necessary. But reception to Oxitec’s adaptation of this technique has been mixed. Oxitec has worked with the USDA on field trials of a genetically-altered pink bollworm since 2006 and received little blowback. In Australia, local press heralds Oxitec’s Medflies as the potential future of agricultural pest control.  In Florida, meanwhile, Oxitec’s mosquito-release plan was so controversial that it was put to a local vote. The company has been forced to find a new trial location after voters in the neighborhood slated for the trial rejected it.
In the eyes of some individuals, the mosquito project is an expression of horrifying corporate greed that treats the public as lab rats. In the agriculture sphere, where new solutions for pests are desperately needed as pesticides become ineffective or illegal, Oxitec’s technology is greeted with enthusiasm.
In Western Australia, Oxitec’s new method could be advantageous because pesticides are often ineffective (not to mention dangerous), and because in theory far fewer insects are needed to achieve the same effect as radiation sterilization. The high levels of radiation required to guarantee sterility can turn male insects into sad, unattractive mates for wild females—and if they don’t mate, the technique does little to cull their numbers. Genetic engineering may be more effective, since it doesn’t leave male mates quite so bedraggled. In the latest trial, the mating performance of Oxitec males was comparable to sterile males irradiated at low levels, and it exceeded sterile males treated with a higher dose.
It’s important to note that while the promises of GMOs are great, they do not always deliver. Recently, an extensive examination by The New York Times found that genetically-modified crops in the United States and Canada had not actually boosted crop yields or led to an overall reduction in pesticide use. It’s possible that something in the altered genetic code of male flies might act as a turnoff for female flies, reducing the effectiveness of the program, or that the new technology won’t wind up being more cost-effective in the end. In Malaysia, where Oxitec conducted trials of its mosquitoes, the country decided to not go ahead with the project after trials, citing cost.
“At the end of the day it will all be about economics: which does the job better and cheaper,” said Philip Stansly, an entomologist who studies agricultural pests at the University of Florida.
Public acceptance, he said, will also be an important factor.
“Unfortunately,” he said, “that has also been an impediment although this technology should be safer than insecticides.”
Advertisement

But to Oxitec at least, the future for genetic engineering seems bright. Dr. Neil Morrison, the lead on Oxitec’s Medfly project, said that the company plans to test its Medfly in other countries beyond Australia. Oxitech is also working on genetically engineering several other agricultural pests, including the Diamondback moth, Drosophila suzukii, and the Olive fly.
And earlier this year, Oxitec CEO Haydn Parry told me that the company eventually hopes to court individual consumers, too.
“I can send you eggs and you can protect your own biosphere,” Parry said.
Parry imagines selling genetically-modified insects at the garden store—perhaps I’d pick up some Oxitec mosquitoes instead of a Citronella candle to protect my garden party guests from nasty bites, or some engineered Medflies to prevent pests on my backyard vegetable garden.
Windsor said that there are still many questions to answer before Oxitec’s Medflies might be considered for commercial approval in Australia. Even before the field trial proceeds, it must first gain the approval of Australia’s Office of the Gene Technology Regulator, which could take up to a year.
Advertisement

“We’re interested in this technology because it offers the theoretical advantage that the male flies are fitter, meaning it will be cheaper and more efficient,” Windsor told me. “Our first question was whether these two fly populations are compatible. Our results suggest that’s the case.”
Perhaps more interesting than early results is where those results might lead.
A Jupiter-like planet located 1,000 light-years from Earth is exhibiting some rather strange meteorological behavior. The clouds on this planet appear to be made from corundum—the same mineral that produces rubies and sapphires.
Using the Kepler space telescope, astronomers from Warwick University have detected individual weather patterns on HAT-P-7b, a hot Jupiter that’s about 16 times larger than Earth. These weather reports are now described in the latest edition of Nature Astronomy, and they’re among the first to be produced for a planet outside our solar system.
Astronomers have measured and mapped a weather system on a planet outside our solar system for the…
Strangely, the clouds on HAT-P-7b appear to be infused with a crystalline form of aluminium oxide—a compound otherwise known as corundum, and the mineral from which rubies and sapphires are formed. Powerful and highly variable winds blow these clouds across the planet, likely leading to catastrophic storms. Gazing upon this planet from space, a visitor would scarcely believe their eyes at the shimmering, jewel-like spectacle.
Advertisement

A team led by David Armstrong made the discovery by monitoring the light being reflected from the planet’s atmosphere, and identifying changes in the light over time. Bright cloud patches were seen shifting position as they were blown across the sky by the planet’s powerful and variable equatorial jet stream. These changes, monitored over a four-year period, were recorded across timescales of tens to hundreds of days.
Not surprisingly, this planet could never be habitable, owing to its violent weather systems and hostile temperatures (this planet is so close to its star that it requires just 2.2 days to make a complete orbit). One side of the planet perpetually faces its massive star, producing temperatures exceeding 2,500 degrees Celsius (2860 Kelvin).
“HAT-P-7b is a tidally locked planet, with the same side always facing its star,” explained Armstrong in a press release. “We expect clouds to form on the cold night side of the planet, but they would evaporate quickly on the hot dayside.”
Advertisement

These results, say the researchers, show that strong winds circle the planet, bringing clouds from the night side to the dayside. The winds change speed dramatically, leading to massive cloud formations that build up and gradually fade away.
At a distance of 1,000 light-years from Earth, it’s unlikely that we’ll ever get a chance to visit. Hopefully the next generation of space telescopes will give us a better view of this spectacular planet and its dramatic weather conditions.
[Nature Astronomy]
Michael Fassbender’s soft lilt is in my ear spouting nonsense about assassins and their creed. Around me is a whirl of action set against a cartoonish backdrop. I’m in the new Assassin’s Creed virtual experience, and thanks to a blend of low-res graphics and high-res people, it feels like I’ve found my way inside some lost Mortal Kombat game circa 1993.
I don’t have any control. The camera, (and I) race down the corridor of a medieval castle. We skitter to a stop at the edge of a turret. I don’t have a body—I hover over the ground like a spectre—so there’s no way to fully comprehend how close to the edge my virtual self is.
Then the camera is lurching forward as my ghostly form is thrown off the turret. I’m seated, but my stomach is in my throat. At the moment my lunch lasagna is about to reacquaint itself with my mouth, the screen goes black. The experience is over.
Advertisement

I rip off the headset and gulp in a huge lungful of air. The world stops spinning long enough for me to catch the eye of one of the creators. He’s grinning, ecstatic with his debut of the Assassin’s Creed experience, and I’m nauseous and trying to be polite.
This is a carefully designed virtual experience. It was shot on the same locations as the big budget movie, and intended to get the average person excited about virtual reality—a surprisingly daunting task. This is, in many respects, the best that VR has to offer. And as the nausea tries to settle in my stomach one thing is painfully clear.
Our bodies aren’t ready for it.
How you experience your place in the physical world is determined by your eyes and your vestibular system, which is primarily composed of a complex series of bone structures in your inner ear. Spinning quickly in a circle or standing up too fast can wreak havoc with this delicate arrangement. Damage to the system creates vertigo. It’s hyper sensitive and does not like to be tricked—yet that’s exactly what VR does.
It’s why my hosts had me sit down before I put on the headset to experience Assassin’s Creed. The experience mimics an extremely popular demo for VR: the roller coaster. It’s a method of showing off how immersive VR can be, because it directly affects the vestibular system. Plunging down a hill or racing around a sharp corner in VR puts your stomach in your throat almost as accurately as if you were on the real thing.
Advertisement
Advertisement

But while you might be exhilarated, your body is wildly compensating for what your vestibular system is perceiving. Sitting down reminds your body that no, you are not racing around a curve at 60 miles per hour. It also allows you to consciously ground yourself. Because if you don’t ground yourself, if your conscious and unconscious body is not prepared for the experience, then things can get messy quickly.

The poor Russian man above is riding a roller coaster in VR, and because VR is shockingly realistic to your vestibular system, he’s reacting to every climb, turn, and descent. He’s also wearing an Oculus Rift DK1. That’s the first major consumer VR headset, released back in 2013. It’s an extraordinary piece of gear, that, according to Oculus co-founder and former Chief Engineer Jack McCauley, is on par with today’s most popular headsets—the mobile kind like the Google Daydream and Samsung Gear VR. Unfortunately, both the DK1 and current mobile headset have one crucial problem: They’re lacking in what VR engineers like to call “localization.”
A far cry from how the term is used with software developers (it’s the procedure employed to translate software for specific countries and locales), VR localization is about tracking the body in a virtual space. Some current systems do it pretty well, tracking not only where your head turns and how fast it turns, but where you exist within the confines of the virtual experience. If shoved, like the terrified man above, you lurch forward in the virtual space too.
Screaming VR Man doesn’t have that luxury. When he’s pushed, his eyes don’t see a corresponding movement. Instead it’s like he’s strapped down, unable to move while being violently (from his perception) assaulted. VR is facing an uphill climb because no one has truly, perfectly unlocked localization, directly mimicking the relationship between the eyes and vestibular system in the real world.
“When I was working at Oculus, I took it upon myself to do research into the kind of affects of VR,” McCauley told Gizmodo. He was one of the few. The rest of the company, passionate gamers eager to realize the dreams promised by Star Trek’s Holodeck and William Gibson’s cyberpunk novels, were focused on creating a cool product that wowed the senses. The potential nausea, vomiting, sweating, fatigue, and disorientation were concerns but not a priority.
Advertisement

McCauley, who, as Chief Engineer on the DK1 and DK2, spent a lot of time trying to figure out the relationship between VR, our eyes, and our vestibular systems, noted that there still isn’t enough research being done outside the military.
“I don’t think we understand enough about how the brain works and the vestibular and ocular system,” McCauley said. Their relationship with VR remains a mystery, and until it’s solved there’s always going to be a threat to our bodies. One wrong slip off the stool or push by a friend and you could wind up like that poor Russian man, screaming into the virtual abyss.
As McCauley notes, different audiences have very different expectations when slipping on a VR headset: Non-gamers can better tolerate low frame rates and artifacting, while regular gamers won’t. Gamers make up the bulk of the people currently developing VR, and everything from mobile headsets for your phone to the $800 ones you plug into your computer are being tailored to them. As someone with three different consoles, too many hours thrown into Overwatch, and a fond memory of Virtual Mario, I was one of the gamers harboring an unconscious need for speed.
The first time I tried VR, I was using an old gaming laptop and an Oculus Rift DK2. I didn’t pay attention to minimum spec requirements for a PC. I didn’t think of how a slower PC might dramatically change the VR experience. In my mind it would be as simple as mirroring the screen on the laptop to the two in the headset—the chunky behemoth with its mobile video card would be enough.
Advertisement
Advertisement

Then I tried playing Alien: Isolation. The computer’s fans hummed angrily as it struggled to output video to the headset. It was having to power not one, but two 1080p displays inside the headset, while immediately rendering a whole new world with every quick turn of my head. The alien’s tail swished across the screen at 60 frames per second. That’s more than adequate when you’re sitting three feet back, but the headset was trying to replicate the real world from only a few inches away. That demands, for a gamer, at least 90 frames per second.
When the refresh rate goes below that, VR sickness can set in, and it’s directly tied to how often you move your head. While a high refresh rate might be coveted by gamers, regular joes will find it wanting, particularly if they plan to watch any live action content on it. That’s because all the content we watch on our phones and TVs is coming in at around 24 to 30 frames per second. It gives content, especially content in motion, a pleasant “cinematic” blur that’s impossible to replicate with current VR headsets. Increase that frame rate and actors look like goofy jackasses in a cheap soap opera.

With VR, we’re going to have to adjust our taste and reconfigure what our brains immediately consider “good” cinematography. Filmmakers are involved in this as well. Ang Lee shot this year’s Billy Lyn’s Long Half Time Walk in 120 fps, James Cameron is in talks to shoot the next Avatar in anything from 48 to 240 fps, and Peter Jackson famously got a critical trouncing for shooting The Hobbit in 48 frames per second. Unfortunately, audiences and critics don’t actually like watching the movies at these speeds, except as an oddity.
Advertisement

Images are so crisp and clear in higher frames per second, which is great for exploring a video game, but it makes live action content feel like it’s being performed on a stage. Translating that stage to the equivalent of a 105-inch 360-degree screen demands a whole other level of adjustment from audiences.
Advertisement
Yet it won’t just be eyes and tastes that need to adjust to make VR more viable. It’s the mind too.
Virtual reality sits on the cusp now of what is real and what we perceive to be real. It’s the uncanny valley writ large. An all-together disturbing experience too real for our bodies to ignore, but too fake for our minds to believe.
Advertisement

But things are changing. Back when the first full flight simulators for pilots went online, researchers noticed a problem. Pilots who had logged hours in an actual airplane were getting sick when flying in a sim, while pilots who had logged hours in a sim would get sick when they flew a plane. It’s called simulator sickness, is virtually identical to VR motion sickness, and might be the most profound problem for VR to overcome.
Our bodies are so incredibly in tune with our surroundings that they know, on a neurological level, when something is off. That’s what is at the core of simulator sickness. The pilots were so attuned to one particular extraordinary experience that when they moved to a similar, but just different enough one, they became ill.
Advertisement
Advertisement

Even if you do overcome simulator sickness, you could be in trouble when you return to the real world. “There seems to be some kind of training going on in your head,” McCauley told Gizmodo. If you spend enough time in VR your body could retrain itself. The real world would become the nauseating one.
The current VR market is being driven by gamers. Palmer Luckey, Jack McCauley, and their fellow Oculus founders developed the headset and transformed the VR industry into what it is today because they were enthusiastic gamers ready to drag the world into the virtual promised land.
Advertisement

The only problem is that this virtual promised land isn’t as ready as gamers would like it to be. It doesn’t matter how rarely you get motion sickness in the real world, the virtual one is an inescapable assault on the human body. Its successes come from tricking the mind and confounding the eyes. But our bodies can perceive the unnatural state of virtual worlds, and when they do they try to protect us, manifesting a feeling of wrongness that makes us feel sick. The problem lies in the VR technology itself. It’s just not good enough to make our bodies believe.
If an enormous asteroid struck the Earth, humanity would be, in a word, screwed. To prevent that from happening, and hopefully inspire a sweet Armageddon reboot in the process, a team of scientists is exploring the possibility of nuking asteroids out of the sky. Yes, you heard that correctly.
Nuking asteroids to prevent the apocalypse sounds like science fiction, but among scientists working in planetary defense—a field concerned with safeguarding the Earth against deadly bolides—it’s a delightfully legitimate idea. At a press conference  at the American Geophysical Union meeting this week, researchers from Los Alamos National Laboratory and NASA’s Goddard Spaceflight Center spoke about the best approaches for preventing a sequel to the KT-extinction. It turns out there are really only two good options: kinetic impactors, which jostle Earth-bound comets and asteroids onto more benign orbits, and explosives, which blow them to smithereens.
Advertisement

There are 15,000 known near Earth objects that could, at some point in the future, pose a threat to our planet. Planetary defense, the concept of protecting ourselves against these cosmic interlopers, has been around for decades, but it’s gained considerable momentum this past year, with the launching of NASA’s Planetary Defense Coordination Office.
That office, whose mission is to ensure the detection of “potentially hazardous” objects (greater than 30-50 meters across) within 0.05 AU of the Earth, already has several exciting projects in the works. These include OSIRIS-Rex, an asteroid sample return mission that launched in September, and the Asteroid Redirect Mission (AIM), which seeks to visit a near-Earth object, collect a multi-ton boulder from its surface, and tractor beam that bad boy back to a stable orbit around the Moon.
Missions like OSIRIS-Rex and AIM are the first steps toward understanding the threat posed by near-Earth objects. Responding to a deadly space rock in a timely manner, however, is another challenge entirely.
Advertisement

“It is really imperative that we reduce our reaction time,” said Joseph Nuth of NASA’s Goddard Spaceflight Center, noting that the Oort cloud comet C/2013 A1 passed “within spitting distance of Mars” just 22 months after its discovery in January 2013. If astronomers were to spot an object like C/2013 A1 on a collision course with Earth, there’s “not a hell of a lot we can do about it,” Nuth said.
Nuth envisions a well-defended planet Earth outfitted with “observer spacecraft,” which, like watchmen, keep their eyes peeled for dangerous near Earth objects. If the observers spot something, they relay all the details they can gather to “interceptor spacecraft,” which are kept in storage planet-side.
“An observer can document the asteroid’s spin axis, shape, and orbit, so that we have the maximum probability of deflecting it from Earth,” Nuth said. Ideally, once an object with a high likelihood of impact has been identified, one or more interceptors will be launched within a year.
Catharine Plesko, a researcher at Los Alamos who uses supercomputers to model asteroid deflection scenarios, says that with decades to centuries of lead time, the more pacifistic kinetic impactor approach is preferred for asteroid deflection. But if our interceptor spacecraft are crunched for time and if their target object is very large,  we may have to go nuclear.
“A kinetic impactor is basically a giant cannonball,” Plesko said. “Cannonball technology is very good, because you’re intercepting the object at a very high speed. But if you really need a lot of energy, a nuclear burst is the way to go.”
“It encompasses the largest amount of energy and the smallest mass” added Robert Weaver of Los Alamos National Laboratory. Most of the energy generated in a nuclear explosion, Weaver says, comes in the form of x-rays, which heat up and vaporize the surface of nearby objects. In the case of a nuke detonating near an asteroid, this causes the rock to recoil in the opposite direction of the material being vaporized. “If it’s a really last minute thing, we can even disrupt the asteroid entirely,” Weaver added.
Advertisement

To be clear, there are no green-lit missions, at NASA or elsewhere, that involve strapping a bunch of nukes to a spacecraft. For now, the idea exists in supercomputers and the imaginations of scientists, although it was fleshed out a bit more concretely last year, with the first draft of a NASA mission proposal called Hypervelocity Asteroid Mitigation Mission for Emergency Response (HAMMER).
Plesko, Weaver, Nuth and their colleagues plan to continue refining HAMMER this year as they consider various aspects of the deflection problem, including how many nukes would be needed to head off asteroids or comets of different sizes. For these scientists, the important thing is to get a real conversation around planetary defense started sooner rather than later.
“Natural disasters happen all the time,” said Galen Gisler of Los Alamos National Laboratory. “This is one natural disaster we can see coming and prevent.”
While seeking the 2012 Republican nomination, Governor Rick Perry famously proposed abolishing the Department of Energy before forgetting what it was called on live TV, naming it as “Oops” during the GOP debates. As luck would have it, however, Perry will be nominated as Secretary of Oops under President Donald Trump, CBS News reports.
Having a climate change skeptic like Perry as head of the Energy Department might sound bad, but the reality is arguably worse. Earlier this month, Trump’s transition team circulated a 74-item questionnaire at the department asking, among other things, which employees attended climate change conferences and when they were held. Democratic lawmakers immediately voiced concerns that such information would be used for retaliation under the new administration, a task that Perry—who has called global warming a “hysteria” supported by “doctored data”—seems well-suited to perform.
Advertisement

In addition, the agency subsidizes green energy projects with loans that  Trump has called wasted tax dollars “on unproven technologies and risky companies.” While Trump can’t end the program without an act of Congress, Perry would be able to block the approval of any new loans as Energy Secretary.
Perhaps most troubling, however, is that one of the agency’s primary responsibilities is handling radioactive materials. Maintaining America’s nuclear arsenal, disposing of radioactive waste, and producing nuclear reactors would all fall under Perry. The man currently holding the position is a former nuclear physicist. The man next in line for the job was last seen Dancing With the Stars.

May God help us all.
Last year, astronomers recorded the brightest supernova explosion ever seen. Follow up observations now suggest this cataclysmic event wasn’t a supernova at all, but rather, an extremely rare celestial phenomenon involving a supermassive black hole and a rather unfortunate star.
In 2015, astronomers participating in the the All Sky Automated Survey for SuperNovae (ASAS-SN) witnessed what they thought was an unusually bright supernova. Dubbed ASASSN-15lh, it was twice as bright as the previous record holder, shining 20 times brighter than the total light output of the entire Milky Way galaxy. A supernova is the brilliant, dying gasp of a large star that can no longer balance the tremendous forces keeping it together, producing a shockwave that blows the star’s outer shell into space with tremendous force.
An exceptionally bright supernova discovered last month appears to shine brighter than 500 billion…
A new follow-up study published in the journal Nature Astronomy casts doubt on this initial assessment, proposing that ASASSN-15lh isn’t a superluminous supernova at all, but instead the consequence of a Sun-like star that ventured too close to a rapidly spinning supermassive black hole—an exceptionally rare cosmological event known as a tidal disruption.
“We observed the source for 10 months following the event and have concluded that the explanation is unlikely to lie with an extraordinarily bright supernova,” noted lead investigator Giorgos Leloudas, an astronomer at Israel’s Weizmann Institute of Science, in a statement. “Our results indicate that the event was probably caused by a rapidly spinning supermassive black hole as it destroyed a low-mass star.”
Advertisement

During a tidal disruption, the extreme gravitational forces of a supermassive black hole “spaghettifies” and rips  apart a star when it wanders too close.  The shocks produced by the colliding debris, along with the tremendous amount of heat generated, produces an incredibly brilliant burst of light. This particular event transpired in a galaxy four billion light-years from Earth, and it’s only the tenth tidal disruption ever recorded.

Above: An animation showing how the ASASSN-15lh most likely happened.
During the ten months that followed the outburst, the astronomers watched as ASASSN-15lh went through a series of phases consistent with a tidal disruption. The object lit up in ultraviolet light and experienced a temperature increase—features that are not consistent with a supernova event. What’s more, the location of the outburst in a red, massive and passive galaxy is not the usual home for a superluminous supernova explosion, which typically happens in blue, star-forming dwarf galaxies.
Advertisement

The researchers based these conclusions on observations made from the Very Large Telescope at ESO’s Paranal Observatory, the New Technology Telescope at ESO’s La Silla Observatory, and the Hubble Space Telescope.

Above: This simulation shows a star getting torn apart by the gravitational tides of a supermassive black hole. The star gets “spaghettified,” and after several orbits creates an accretion disc. The view on the right is from the side, and at left from face on. (Credit: ESO, ESA/Hubble, N. Stone, K. Hayasaki) 
That said, this particular tidal disruption—if that’s what it really is—is quite unique, requiring a special set of circumstances to make it happen.
“The tidal disruption event we propose cannot be explained with a non-spinning supermassive black hole,” explained Nicholas Stone from Columbia University. “We argue that ASASSN-15lh was a tidal disruption event arising from a very particular kind of black hole.”
The supermassive black hole at the core of this galaxy features a mass about 100 million times that of our Sun. Normally, a black hole of this size wouldn’t be able to disrupt stars outside of its event horizon—that fateful boundary within which nothing is able to escape. But if this black hole happens to be a so-called Kerr black hole—a black hole that features a rapid spin—this limit no longer applies, and the black hole is able to suck up any star that ventures within a certain radius.
Advertisement

The researchers aren’t fully confident that the outburst came from a tidal disruption, but the clues certainly fit that scenario. Further observations will be needed to make a definitive case.
[Nature Astronomy]
New research shows that macaques have a vocal tract capable of emitting human-like speech, but they lack the brain circuitry to make words happen. That may be a good thing, because their simulated speech is creepy as hell.
For nearly four decades, scientists have thought that the inability of nonhuman primates to produce human speech sounds had to do with anatomical limitations in their vocal tracts. Autopsies done on monkey cadavers seemed to indicate a very limited vocal range compared to humans. A new study published in the journal Science Advances suggests this thinking is wrong, and that at least one monkey, the macaque, possesses the vocal anatomy to produce clearly intelligible speech. As the Princeton Neuroscience Institute researchers point out in their paper, the apparent inability to produce human sounds has more to do with limits to monkey brain power.
To show this, neuroscientist Asif Ghazanfar and his colleagues investigated the range of movements that the macaque vocal anatomy could produce. The researchers used X-ray videos to capture and then trace the movements of the different parts of a macaque’s vocal anatomy, including the tongue, lips, and larynx, as the test subject made various sounds and facial movements. Scientists at the VUB Artificial Intelligence Lab in Belgium fed this data into a computer model capable of predicting and then simulating a macaque’s vocal range.
Advertisement

The results, while a bit unsettling, demonstrated that a macaque, if it did have the neural capability for speech, wouldn’t sound precisely like a human, but it would be understandable to the human ear. In the example below, a simulated macaque can be heard saying, “will you marry me?”

Here’s a simulation of human speech was added for comparison:

Human speech is produced by the larynx, which is changed by the position of other vocal anatomy, including the lips and tongue. For example, think about how your face changes when you say the words “bat” and “bot.” Macaques, this research suggests, have this same capacity.
The researchers suspect that the presence of a human-like vocal tract in an old species like the macaque suggests that other primates, including apes like the chimpanzee, have one as well. It may very well be a good idea to study chimps to see if they have certain neural networks that their monkey cousins do not, and to compare any differences to humans. Consequently, primates could be used as models for understanding early human speech development and human speech evolution.
Advertisement

“Now nobody can say that it’s something about the vocal anatomy that keeps monkeys from being able to speak—it has to be something in the brain,” said Ghazanfar in a statement. “Even if this finding only applies to macaque monkeys, it would still debunk the idea that it’s the anatomy that limits speech in nonhumans. Now, the interesting question is, what is it in the human brain that makes it special?”
The answer to this question may not be simple. Human speech, along with the attendant capacity for language, involves a huge number of mental capacities, such as the ability to convert an object or concept into a word, the application of grammar, and the capacity for recursive language in which concepts are embedded within concepts. Humans and primates share a lot in common, but when it comes to our use of language, we’re clearly set apart.
[Science Advances]
If you have noticed the selection of organic, GMO-free crackers encroaching on the shelf space of the Pop Tarts and Wheat Thins at your local bodega, you can blame millennials for ruining your midnight-snacking fun.
Younger Americans, according to a new Pew Research Center survey, are the most likely to think organic foods are healthier and that genetically modified foods are bad. While splurging on organic avocados is unlikely to do more damage than put a dent in your wallet, anti-GMO fear mongering threatens to actually stymy the progress of science. And nearly half of Americans under 30 feel that genetically modified foods are worse than conventional varieties.
Advertisement

That’s right, millennials—not stodgy old guard Republicans—are responsible for fueling this particular crusade against science.
Along with vaccines and climate change, food is one of the areas where the public’s opinion is most divorced from that of science. According to another Pew Research Center survey last year, 88 percent of scientists believe that it is safe to eat genetically modified foods, but only 37 percent of the public does. The new survey found that just 35% of the public said they trust scientists “a lot” when it comes to the health effects of genetically modified foods.
Advertisement

Capitalizing on that public opinion, the anti-GMO movement has gained considerable steam in recent years, sometimes acting so aggressively that it prevents scientists who study genetically modified foods from actually doing their jobs. As our eating habits have gotten more health-conscious, they have also become more and more divorced from any scientific fact. The idea of splicing some fish genes with a tomato may sound kind of horrifying and gross, but the scientific consensus is that genetically modified foods are safe to eat.
This latest Pew survey suggests that there is a generation gap fanning those flames. A fifth of those under 30 feel not only that non-modified foods are better, but that modified varieties might lead to health problems, a view few scientists would endorse. A fourth also feel that modified foods might harm the environment.  While it’s true certain applications of genetic modification, like gene drives, could have negative ecological effects, that’s an example of technology being misused, and says nothing about whether the technology itself is inherently bad.
The survey also pointed to some shifts in behavior overall. More than 60 percent of all age groups reported that they had recently bought organic foods and even among those over 65, 45 percent of seniors felt organic produce is healthier.
But the trend towards a distinctly anti-GMO sentiment among younger Americans is concerning. Genetically modified foods don’t just mean crops that grow bigger or produce more. Genetic modification offers the possibility of a food supply resistant to problems like blight that can better feed the global population. And that is something far too few Americans seem to have realized.
Researchers have discovered that Atlantic killifish are now 8,000 times more resilient to high levels of toxic waste than other fish, allowing them to survive extreme levels of pollution that would normally be deadly. It sounds like an evolutionary success story, but examples like this are exceptionally rare in the animal kingdom.
New research published in the journal Science shows that urban-dwelling killifish who swim in four severely polluted estuaries along the US East Coast have evolved strong resistance to lethal, human-altered environments. Owing to their unique genetic make-up, these fish are now thousands of times more resilient to high levels of pollution than other fish.
As Charles Darwin showed nearly 150 years ago, species can adapt to changing environmental…
Evolutionary processes are typically slow, making it difficult for species to adapt to human-induced environmental changes. Researchers from UC Davis have discovered that the killifish features a higher level of genetic variation than any other vertebrate sequenced so far. Like insects, weeds, and bacteria, these fish can adapt quickly to all sorts of environmental stressors.
Advertisement

“Some people will see this as a positive and think, ‘Hey, species can evolve in response to what we’re doing to the environment!’” noted study lead author Andrew Whitehead in a statement. “Unfortunately, most species we care about preserving probably can’t adapt to these rapid changes because they don’t have the high levels of genetic variation that allow them to evolve quickly.”
Indeed, animals without this kind of genetic elbow room often can’t adapt quickly enough, or even at all. Some highly-specialized species can’t deviate too far from their genetic script, making most mutations extremely disadvantageous.
In the study, the scientists sequenced the genomes of nearly 400 Atlantic killifish from both polluted and non-polluted sites at New Bedford Harbor in Massachusetts, Newark Bay, New Jersey, Connecticut’s Bridgeport area, and Virginia’s Elizabeth River. These waterways have been contaminated since the 1950s and 1960s by dioxins, heavy metals, hydrocarbons, and other nasty industrial pollutants.
Advertisement

Genetic analysis shows that these fish are well-suited to radically altered-habitats. Fascinatingly, all of the fish acquired similar adaptations to the toxic waters, even though they swam in different environments. This is a great example of convergent evolution at work, when animals in different habitats stumble upon the same solution independent of one another. The researchers say it’s possible that the killifish were primed for this evolutionary shift by virtue of a shared genetic quirk that drove the rapid adaptation to pollution.
The study might help explain how genetic differences among humans and other species contribute to differences in sensitivity to environmental chemicals.
“If we know the kinds of genes that can confer sensitivity in another vertebrate animal like us, perhaps we can understand how different humans, with their own mutations in these important genes, might react to these chemicals,” Whitehead said.
Killifish along the US East coast may have evolved a tolerance to toxic waste, but there’s a big downside to all this. These fish are a popular prey animal for a number of species, who must now face the health consequences of feasting on a food source that thrives in polluted waters. We won’t know the downstream effects of this adaptation for years to come.
[Science]
Over the summer, two enormous avalanches struck the Aru Glacier in Tibet back-to-back. Now, after several months of careful study, scientists think they’ve identified the cause of the first ice slide, which claimed the lives of nine nomadic herders. You’ll be shocked to hear it has to do with climate change.
When over 70 million tons of ice broke off the Aru Glacier in the mountains of western Tibet on July 17th, it raised eyebrows in the glaciology community. After all, the collapse was totally unexpected and nearly instantaneous, burying 3.7 square miles of valley floor in a matter of minutes. But when another enormous ice slide occurred nearby two months later, jaws dropped to the floor.
When the first deadly avalanche struck the Aru Range in Tibet on July 17th, scientists were…
“Even one of these gigantic glacier avalanches is very unusual,” glaciologist Andreas Kääb of the University of Oslo told NASA’s Earth Observatory. “Two of them within close geographical and temporal vicinity is, to our best knowledge, unprecedented.”
Advertisement

So, what the hell happened? When Gizmodo reported on the avalanches back in October, the working theory was that a process called ‘surging,’ in which ice flows from the top to the bottom of the glacier and causes it to advance more quickly, primed Aru for a sudden collapse.
But a new study, led by researchers at the Chinese Academy of Sciences and Ohio State University, argues that the July 17th ice slide looks less like a case of glacial surging, and more like a case of way too much water seeping to the bottom of the glacier, causing it to detach from bedrock and slide downhill.
Advertisement

“Given the rate at which the event occurred and the area covered, I think it could only happen in the presence of meltwater,” study co-author Lonnie Thompson, who used computer models to recreate the avalanche, said in a statement.
How could so much meltwater have accumulated at the bottom of the Aru Glacier? Nobody’s certain, but Thompson and his colleagues are wagering that an unusually wet spring and long-term warming trends are to blame. Prior to the July avalanche, the nearby meteorological station of Nagri recorded its highest rainfall totals in the last six years. And average temperatures in this part of Tibet have risen rapidly, about 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) over the past 50 years—although this past summer was relatively mild.
“It is probable that the recent and rapid warming in this region increased the internal temperature of the ice, which, coupled with increased precipitation, created very unstable conditions,” the authors wrote. “If true, then other glaciers in the region may be experiencing similar conditions, therefore making this region extremely dangerous.”
More work is needed to determine if the second avalanche, which occurred on September 24th, had a similar underlying cause. But suffice to say, the possibility that these two events are linked to each other, and to an emerging trend, is terrifying.
[OSU News]
Good news, everyone: Biologists have discovered a species of marine worm that, when still in its larval stage, is nothing more than an algae-gobbling, disembodied head.
Most animals have at least a semblance of an adult-like body when they’re young. But a new study published in the journal Current Biology shows this isn’t always the case, and that for some sea creatures, bodies are completely overrated. The marine acorn worm Schizocardium californicum lives for months as nothing more than a head, swimming around chomping algae. The discovery of this odd mode of development is shedding new light on a poorly-understood organism, and on how early life may have evolved on Earth.
Advertisement

Larval animals like the acorn worm undergo “indirect development,” changing dramatically from their initial birth stage to the adult stage (the caterpillar turning into a butterfly is a supreme example). In an effort to understand this process a bit better, biologists Paul Gonzalez and Chris Lowe from Stanford’s Hopkins Marine Station took a closer look at S. californicum, a creature that’s notoriously difficult to study because of its slow and protracted larval stage.
By sequencing and analyzing the worm’s RNA, the researchers discovered that certain genes are switched off, delaying the development of a full-grown body.
Advertisement

“When you look at a larva, it’s like you’re looking at an acorn worm that decided to delay development of its trunk, inflate its body to be balloon-shaped and float around in the plankton to feed on delicious algae,” said Gonzalez. “Delayed trunk development is probably very important to evolve a body shape that is different from that of a worm, and more suitable for life in the water column.”
Over time, and as as the floating heads continue to grow, the worms eventually sprout a trunk. The genes that regulate the development of a body turn on, and the worms grow to about 16 inches (40 cm) after several years. The researchers say Schizocardium californicum is probably not the only creature with this bizarre growth strategy.
Indirect development is the most prevalent developmental strategy of sea-based marine invertebrates, leading the researchers to theorize that the earliest animals on Earth used these kinds of strategies to develop into adults.
“Given how pervasive larvae are in the animal world, we understand very little about this critical phase in animal development,” said Lowe. “These are not the kind of species you want to pick if you want deep, mechanistic insights into developmental biology. But, if your goal is to understand how animals have evolved, then you cannot avoid using these species.”
[Current Biology]
You love space gifs. Your weird engineering buddy loves space gifs. So it was only a matter of time before NASA, the fun-loving government agency with a mission to make sure everybody on this pale blue dot is feeling stoked about the cosmic beyond, officially joined the internet’s one stop shop for clever retorts and silly reactions better known as GIPHY.
Yesterday, the space agency launched a GIPHY page, and it is everything a space nerd could hope for, full of glorious planetary and deep space imagery, fiery rocket launches, and unforgettable moments in spaceflight history, most of which involve middle aged men making hearty victory whoops in front of their computer screens. Also, a few things that....definitely haven’t happened....yet.
Courtesy of NASA, we’ve collected a few of our favorite new GIPHY treasures here, but honestly, it’s worth putting everything else aside to scour the page for yourself, and start dropping the galaxy’s best science gifs all over social media before all of your friends catch on.
Oh, NASA also has a Pinterest page now, for some reason.
[GIPHY via NASA]
With his passing earlier today, John Glenn is being remembered as not only the first American to orbit the Earth, but also the oldest. Here’s why NASA sent a 77-year-old man into space, and how his historic trip set space science forward.
During the 1990s, when John Glenn was serving as a Senator for Ohio (and a member of the Senate Special Committee on Aging), he lobbied NASA to fly again. The space agency agreed, training him and assigning him to mission STS-95 aboard the Space Shuttle Discovery.
Glenn was listed as the mission’s Payload Specialist, but the real point of sending the 77-year-old veteran into space was to see how his aged body would fare in space, and how aging might relate to deleterious effects of zero gravity on the human body.
Advertisement

The launch on October 29, 1998 got off to a rocky start. The countdown stopped at T-9 minutes, and it stood there for over eight minutes as the launch team discussed the status of an alarm heard during cabin leak checks after the hatch was closed. The countdown stopped yet again at the T-5 minute mark on account of an unauthorized aircraft flying in restricted air space near the Kennedy Space Center. The countdown resumed once the plane was gone, but after the main engine finally started, and just prior to the main booster ignition, a drag chute compartment door fell off. The launch team figured it didn’t pose any threat to the mission, and chose to proceed as planned.

When the shuttle reached low Earth orbit, Glenn returned to space exactly 36 years, eight months, and nine days after he became the first American to do so.
Advertisement

The primary objectives of the mission included performing over 80 science experiments, conducting tests in the pressurized SPACEHAB module, retrieving the Spartan free-flyer payload, working with the Hubble Space Telescope, and of course, performing a battery of tests on Glenn.
The experiments on Glenn were focused at deepening our understanding of the aging process. Even back in the ‘90s, aging experts noticed similarities between the effects of spaceflight on the human body and natural changes that occur as a person gets older.
For the duration of the mission, Glenn was basically turned into a lab rat.  “For four days, I had 21 different leads—brainwaves and respiration and EKG—21 different body parameters being recorded and sent down to the ground,” noted Glenn in 2011. With the help of mission specialist Pedro Duque, the crew conducted tests to see how the absence of gravity affected Glenn’s balance and perception, immune system response, bone and muscle density, metabolism, and blood flow, and sleep.
With the The Martian rocketing to the top of box offices worldwide this week, the challenge of…
Thanks to these tests and subsequent space missions, we know that space is incredibly hard on the human body. It affects everything from muscle mass and bone density to heart health and vision, to name but a few issues.
Advertisement

When the Discovery made its re-entry through the Earth’s atmosphere nine days after launch, Glenn’s descent was discernibly smoother than it was decades before. Instead of the intense 7 G’s endured during the re-entry of Friendship 7, Glenn had to deal with “just”  3 G’s of force. During the course of the nine-day mission, Glenn orbited the Earth 134 times, travelling 3.6 million miles in the process.
[NASA I, II, III, IV]
A magnitude 7.8 earthquake has rocked the Solomon Islands about 42 miles off the coast of Kirakira. A subsequent Tsunami watch was issued for Hawaii, but was canceled. Areas close to the quake are also on tsunami alerts.
The quake happened early this morning at 7:38 am local time in Hawaii, and struck at a depth of 25 miles. No damage has been reported, but the large quake spawned tsunami warnings in the Solomons, Japan, and Hawaii.
Advertisement

“Hazardous tsunami waves from this earthquake are possible within the next three hours along some coasts of Solomon Islands, Vanuatu, Papua New Guinea, Nauru, New Caledonia, Tuvalu and Kosrae,” declared the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center.
Tsunami waves reaching three to nine feet (1-3 meters) are still possible along some coasts of the Solomon Islands, while waves reaching a few inches to three feet are possible for some coasts of Papua New Guinea and Vanuatu.
Updating...
[PTWC Weather, Global News]
Scientists have discovered a dinosaur tail with its feathers still intact trapped inside a piece of amber. It’s absolutely incredible.
These aren’t the first feathers to be found encased in amber, but they’re in such pristine condition that scientists can say they most definitely come from a dinosaur and not some kind of prehistoric bird. These feathers could very well be the first non-avian (i.e. non-bird) dino fragments found preserved in amber. This discovery, the details of which now appear in the journal Current Biology, is shedding new light on the finer details of dino feathers and how they evolved—details that can’t be inferred from conventional fossils alone.
Incredibly, the lead author of the new study, Lida Xing from the China University of Geosciences in Beijing, found the remarkable specimen at a market in Myanmar last year. The people selling the chunk of amber  figured it contained some kind of plant matter, and that it would make for a nice piece of jewelry or a cool curiosity piece. Xing immediately recognized its scientific potential and recruited Ryan McKellar of the Royal Saskatchewan Museum in Canada to aid in the analysis.
Using a CT scanner and a microscope, the researchers were able to analyze the amber piece in detail. They say the feathered tail belongs to a young coelurosaur, a family of bird-like carnivorous dinosaurs that lived during the Cretaceous era about 99 million years ago.
“The [amber] material preserves a tail consisting of eight vertebrae from a juvenile; these are surrounded by feathers that are preserved in 3D and with microscopic detail,” noted McKellar  in a statement.
Analysis shows that the upper surface of the tail was colored a chestnut-brown, and the underside a pale white. The feathers’ structure lacked a well-developed central shaft, or rachis, a feature found in modern bird feathers. But the feathers did have barbs and barbules—a pattern of branching found in modern feathers—suggesting that this feature arose quite early in the evolution of feathers.
Advertisement

The researchers are hoping to find more such artifacts in the future. “Amber pieces preserve tiny snapshots of ancient ecosystems, but they record microscopic details, three-dimensional arrangements, and...tissues that are difficult to study in other settings,” noted McKellar. “This is a new source of information that is worth researching with intensity and protecting as a fossil resource.”
[Current Biology]
It feels like just last week the majestic giraffe finally had its moment in the spotlight. Wait, that was last week. At long last, the world’s tallest land mammals are getting the respect they deserve. Except, because everything we humans love we somehow destroy, giraffes are now dying.
You might think: Giraffe is a weak creature. Silly tongue, flimsy legs, small brain. If you were…
Over the past thirty years, the number of giraffes on Earth has dropped 38 percent, from roughly 157,000 individuals in 1985 to 97,500 today, according a new population survey conducted by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature. Based on this depressing find, the IUCN has updated the giraffe’s red list status from “least concern” to “vulnerable.”
Advertisement

“This is a silent extinction,” Julian Fennessy of the Giraffe Conservation Foundation, which helped lead the new population survey, told Gizmodo. “Most people assume giraffes have been just fine.”
Indeed, giraffes have long been overlooked in terms of research and conservation, although that’s starting to change thanks to groups like the GCF and pro-active governments. Over the past five years, there’s been major progress compiling population data on giraffes and decoding their genetics. Based on the latest DNA evidence, a recent scientific paper (also led by Fennessy) calls for reclassifying the long-necked herbivores into four separate species.
If formally adopted by the IUCN, this new classification would overturn the one species, nine subspecies taxonomy that traces back to 18th century biologist Linnaeus. Biologists are still arguing about it. But however the scientific debate shakes out, it’s a poignant example of just how mis-understood giraffes are.
Advertisement

The IUCN identified a number of factors responsible for the rapid decline, including many of the usual suspects: illegal hunting, habitat loss and degradation, and civil unrest. All of these issues relate to a growing human population, and as our numbers continue to rise, we can expect the giraffe’s problems to get worse.
There is, however, a reason to be optimistic. Three of the currently-recognized subspecies—the southern giraffe of South Africa, the West African giraffe of Niger, and the Rothschild’s giraffe of Eastern Africa—have seen their numbers rise since 1985 due to better management, pro-active conservation policies, and in some places, a booming eco-tourism industry.
Fennessy hopes that giraffe conservation success stories, along with the latest dire status report from the IUCN, prompt more national and international action to safeguard these amazing animals.
“There are some national strategies,” Fennessy said. “But we all need to come together, come up with priorities, and get an Africa-wide framework in place.”
In 2015, 86,212 more Americans died than the year before. That means life expectancy in the United States is heading in the wrong direction—something that hasn’t happened since 1993.
A new report by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows that life expectancy in the US fell in 2015, a decline of 0.1 years from the year before. Based on current mortality rates, an infant born in 2015 should be expected to live on average to age 78.8. It’s usually taken for granted that life expectancy rises each year, especially in developed countries like the US. The CDC’s new report highlights the need for an examination into why life expectancy is now going in the wrong direction, and what can be done to address it.
Advertisement

Last year’s mortality increase is the first since 1993—a year when HIV/AIDS, the flu, and other factors came into play. But we had an inkling that something weird was going on when a PNAS paper came out in October of last year showing that middle-aged white folks in the US were living shorter and unhealthier lives. From 1998 to 2013, death rates among American whites between the ages of 45 to 54 increased by half a percent each year. The CDC’s new report expands upon this research, providing data about the entire US population—and the numbers aren’t encouraging.
In 2015, male life expectancy fell from 76.5 to 76.3 years, and for women, it dropped from 81.3 to 81.2 years. The death rate increased 1.2 percent from 724.6 deaths per 100,000 people in 2014 to 733.1 in 2015. Mortality among black women, Hispanic women, and Hispanic men didn’t change from 2014 to 2015. On a (slightly) positive note, the rate of infant mortality did not change noticeably in 2015.
Advertisement

In 2015, the 10 leading causes of death were the same as they were the year before: heart disease, cancer, chronic lower respiratory diseases, unintentional injuries, stroke, Alzheimer’s disease, diabetes, influenza and pneumonia, kidney disease, and suicide. All of these causes of death increased in 2015 from the year before, except pneumonia, which stayed the same, and cancer, which fell by 1.7 percent.
It’s important to point out that life expectancy is a measure of current trends and modern causes of mortality. When researchers say an infant can “be expected” to live to a certain age, it’s an assessment that doesn’t take future medical developments and other interventions into account. Basically, it’s commentary on what’s happening to adults today, not on how long your toddler is going to live.
So what’s going on?  CDC researcher Jaquan Xu says the opioid epidemic is partly to blame. “We’re seeing so many more preventable causes of death, and they’re significantly affecting mortality negatively,” he told STAT. Accidental poisonings increased 13 percent last year, he said, 97 percent of which came from drug overdoses and alcohol. At the same time, deaths from motor vehicle accidents shot up by six percent.
The future of public health in the United States was a hotly contested topic during the 2016…
The good news, as Xu points out, is that many of these causes of death are preventable. Hopefully the Trump administration will take note and act accordingly. To address the opioid epidemic, Americans are going to need more than just a wall.
[CDC, STAT]
As far as jobs enshrined at the top of our impenetrable bureaucracy go, the head of the Food and Drug Administration is pretty important. The chief of the FDA is responsible for setting the course of an organization that oversees the safety and efficacy of a huge array of products that Americans use everyday, from makeup and cell phones to food and drugs. In total, each year it oversees more than $1 trillion in consumer goods.
Which is why it is pretty freaking terrifying that President-elect Donald Trump is considering appointing staunch libertarian and Peter Thiel crony Jim O’Neill to head the FDA. In the past O’Neill has proposed FDA reforms that would dilute much of the agency’s regulatory authority. Among other things, he has advocated for the FDA to give up on vetting the efficacy of new drugs before they come to market. O’Neill, in other words, would like the FDA to stop performing one of its primary functions and let all of us act as lab mice. Such a move might allow drug makers to rake in tons of cash on untested medical treatments that might not ever work.
“We should reform [the] FDA so there is approving drugs after their sponsors have demonstrated safety—and let people start using them, at their own risk,” O’Neill said in a 2014 speech at the conference Rejuvenation Biotechnology. “Let’s prove efficacy after they’ve been legalized.”
Advertisement

Here are some other reasons why it would be completely insane to let this man oversee the health and safety of all Americans:
The good news is that Trump’s pick for FDA head is not yet official. Trump could still come to his senses. Also under consideration is Dr. Scott Gottlieb, a former FDA deputy commissioner with a much more suitable background to run the agency.
Otherwise, seasteading might not be such a bad idea after all!
The Greenland ice sheet contains enough water to raise global sea levels 24 feet should it all melt. And a massive melt-out is exactly what seems to have happened about a million years ago, according to a groundbreaking analysis of a unique geologic sample from Greenland’s rocky underbelly.
Well over half of the Greenland ice sheet appears to have melted to bedrock in the not-too-distant past, when temperatures weren’t much warmer than they are today, according to new research led by paleoclimatologist  Joerg Schaefer of Columbia University’s Lamont Observatory. Schaefer’s analysis, which is published today in the journal Nature, casts doubt on long-held assumptions about the stability of Greenland’s 684,000 cubic mile mantle of ice, suggesting there are unknown mechanisms that can trigger rapid melting.
Advertisement

Naturally, this has scientists more concerned than ever about future sea level rise, as our planet continues to warm and Greenland sheds ice at an ever-increasing clip.
This story begins in the late 1980s, when two teams of geologists, one American and one European, embarked on unprecedented drilling expeditions to acquire ice cores representing the entire length of the Greenland ice sheet from its thickest section, a site in central Greenland where the ice is piled up about 10,000 feet (3,000 meters). It took each team five summers to drill through the ice, but the  prize was a series of cores that have allowed Earth scientists to reconstruct a world-class record of Arctic climate history.
Advertisement

The European team, concerned about breaking its sensitive drilling equipment, stopped when it approached bedrock. The American team did not let such concerns get in the way of its desire to keep drilling, and instead, on July 1st 1993, they “decided to slam their drill crown down,” as Schaefer put it. The Americans ended up punching through 5 feet (1.55 meters) of solid bedrock, collecting geologic samples of a surface that, today,  is entirely buried by ice.
“This rock is probably the most unique terrestrial rock sample ever,” Schaefer said. “It’s as precious as the moon rock that was retrieved in the 1970s.”
The GISP2 bedrock samples, as they’re called, have been sitting in storage for nearly a quarter century. Only very recently, with the advent of high-resolution accelerator mass spectrometers, have scientists been able to probe these rocks for trace quantities of atoms that can tell us about the land surface’s history.
That’s exactly what Schaefer and his colleagues have now done. In their new study, the researchers analyzed samples of the GISP2 bedrock to determine the abundance of two of the rarest isotopes on Earth, beryllium-10 and aluminum-26. These “cosmogenic nuclides” rain down on Earth from outer space, dusting the upper few meters of surfaces that are exposed to the air. Since beryllium-10 and aluminum-26 each have a known decay rate, scientists can use them to figure out how long it’s been since a surface was last exposed.
The cosmogenic nuclides in the GISP2 bedrock tell us something astonishing. This region of Greenland, which remember, is today covered in 10,000 feet of ice, was exposed and ice-free as recently as 1.1 million years ago, for at least one chunk of time, and perhaps many, spanning 280,000 years over the Quaternary (the last 2.6 million years of Earth history).
Advertisement

“This means the Greenland ice sheet is really much less stable and more dynamic than we thought,” Schaefer said.
It’s worth noting that the analysis is based on a single sample of rock. But that sample was taken from underneath the thickest part of the Greenland ice sheet, and most models agree that this would have been one of the last places to melt out were the ice sheet to retreat. The implication, therefore, is that most of Greenland was ice-free when beryllium-10 was raining down on GISP2.
“I would say that the leading hypothesis [now] is that not too much warming is required to remove much or most of Greenland’s ice to expose rock at GISP2,” study co-author Richard Alley told Gizmodo in an email. Alley added, however, that scientists don’t think Greenland melted completely in recent history.
Advertisement

Indeed, another cosmogenic nuclide analysis, also published today in Nature, highlights the long-term stability of ice from East Greenland. That analysis,  which was led by the University of Vermon’s Paul Bierman, found very low levels of beryllium-10 and aluminum-26 in marine sediment cores off the eastern coast of Greenland. Bierman and his colleagues interpret this to mean that the sediment source—Greenland’s eastern highlands—has been ice-covered for the past 7.5 million years.
Patches of Greenland’s ice may be quite stable. Nevertheless, the conclusion of the Schaefer’s study, that the majority of the ice sheet melted rapidly in recent history, is certainly cause for concern.
Indeed, the interglacial periods encompassed in the GISP2 bedrock featured atmospheric CO2 levels of around 280 parts per million (ppm), similar to CO2 levels in pre-industrial history. In the span of a few centuries, human activity has pushed the CO2 concentrations north of 400 ppm, with more carbon added daily a rate unprecedented since the dinosaurs went extinct. If Greenland’s ice sheet was sensitive before our global atmospheric experiment got underway, it’s likely to be even more so now.
Advertisement

“I think it’s unquestionably one of the most important papers on Greenland to come out in a long time,” Eric Steig, a climate scientist at the University of Washington who was not involved with the study told Gizmodo. “[It] underscores the already strong view that Greenland is going to gradually melt and contribute significantly to sea level rise in the future, as is already happening.”
Correction: Because of a copyediting error an earlier version of this post quoted Schaefer as saying moon rock samples were retrieved in the 1990s, when he in fact (correctly) said they were retrieved in the 1970s. The text has been corrected.